Spark/ Python Developer Spark/<span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Spark/ Python Developer - Cisco - Milipitas San Jose, CA • Over 8+ years of experience as a Design, Implementation, Development, machine learning, Management and Analysis of various stand-alone, client-server enterprise applications.  • Extensive experience in Text Analytics, developing different Statistical Machine Learning, Data Mining solutions to various business problems and generating data visualizations using R, Python and Tableau.  • Experience in Python, Django, Zope, Pyramid Framework.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python/Scripting, Django, PHP, C++, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, jQuery, MVC3, RESTful, RUBY and AJAX.  • Experience in Amazon Web Services (Amazon EC2, Amazon S3, Amazon Simple DB, Amazon RDS, Amazon Elastic Load Balancing, Amazon SQS, AWS Identity and access).  • Used to write Python automation scripts that create and manage resources in your Open Stack cloud.  • Hand on working experience in machine learning and statistics to draw meaningful insights from data. I am good at communication and storytelling with data.  • Use of NLTK, Open NLP & Stanford NLP for Natural Language Processing and sentiment analysis.  • Hands on experience in using Hadoop ecosystem components like Map Reduce, HDFS, HBase, Hive, Pig, Flume and Spark  • Experienced in developing MapReduce programs using Apache Hadoop for working with Big Data  • Extensively worked on Spark SQL, Data frames, RDD's to improve the performance of the application.  • Have good knowledge on No-Sql databases like Cassandra, Mongodb.  • Good experience in working with various Python Integrated Development Environments like PyCharm, PyScripter, Spyder, PyStudio, PyDev, IDLE, NetBeans and Sublime Text.  • Worked in project for graphical front-end command-line debuggers such as GDB, DBX, WDB, Ladebug, JDB, XDB, the Perl debugger, the bash debugger, GNU Make debugger, or the Python debugger. DDD displays data structures as graphs and plots.  • Experience using various version control systems like CVS, Git, GitHub and Amazon EC2 and deployment using Heroku.  • Expertise in locating the web elements using XPATH and CSS Selectors.  • Familiarity in working with TCP/IP, IPv4, and IPv6 protocols in an environment, which provides multithreading, multitenancy and high availability support at Network Layer.  • Proficient writing SQL Queries, Stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, triggers using relational databases like Oracle, DB2, MySQL and MSSQL Server.  • Suggest and improve the current running production of NLP Framework.  • Worked on one of NLP version which supports multi domain and multi feature with easy interface.  • Familiar with supervised and unsupervised Machine Learning algorithms such as SVM, CNN, Regression Trees, clustering techniques, NLP, NLTK, Scikit, XGBoost.  • Good knowledge about the design of API's using Web.  • Developed test scripts to automate process of testing in Selenium WebDriver.  • Experience with NoSQLdatabases like Apache Cassandra, MongoDB and Orient DB.  • Developed Spark scripts by using Scala IDE's as per the business requirement.  • Good knowledge on Python Collections, Python Scripting and Multi-Threading.  • Hands-on experience in deploying of applications in web services with protocols SOAP, REST.  • Have a good knowledge on the front-end frame works like CSS Bootstrap.  • Good idea about testing tools like Bugzilla and JIRA.  • Good knowledge on the servers like Apache Tomcat, Web logic.  • Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS, and JavaScript. Work Experience Spark/ Python Developer Cisco - Milipitas - San Jose, CA January 2017 to Present Description: Milpitas is also located within the Silicon Valley. The corporate headquarters of Maxtor, LSI Corporation, Adaptec, Intersil, FireEye, Viavi and Lumentum (formerly JDSU), KLA-Tencor, SanDisk, and View, Inc. sit within the industrial zones of Milpitas. Flex and Cisco also have offices in Milpitas.    Responsibilities:  • Desigened and Developed application using Python, Django, MySQL and Linux  • Worked with offshore teams and internal clients to Design and analyze the requirements.  • Worked on LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQLand PYTHON) architecture.  • Developed entire backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL and Django.  • Developed Python scripts using multithreading module.  • Used NLTK and Stanford NLP to process text data and created offline intelligence.  • Responsible for setting up Python REST API framework using DJANGO.  • Developed responsive UI using HTML5/CSS3, JavaScript, AngularJSand Bootstrap.  • Developed data format file that is required by the Model to perform analytics using Spark SQL and Hive query language.  • Create custom VB scripts in repackaging applications as needed. NLP File Prep Settlement-Prepare files for review for Settlement.  • Analysed the sql scripts and designed it by using Spark SQL for faster performance.  • Responsible for writing test plans and executing tests via automation and manually.  • Developed database layer including Tables and Stored procedures in MYSQL.  • Installed and used CaffeDeep Learning Framework  • Worked on different data formats such as JSON, XML and performed machine learning algorithms in R.  • Used Pandas, NumPy, seaborn, SciPy, Matplotlib, Scikit-learn, NLTK in Python for developing various machine learning algorithms and utilized machine learning algorithms such as linear regression.  • Scraping, Machine Learning, Python programming, SQL, GIT, Unix Commands, NoSQL, MongoDB, Hadoop  • Implemented MVC architecture application using spring and created Lambda function in AWS using Spring Framework.  • Used Amazon Cloud EC2 along with Amazon SQS to upload and retrieve project history.  • Developed a Front-End GUI as stand-alone Python application.  • Created the Automation scripts using Python for testing applications as well as the integration of these application (API's &UI's) based on REST calls using Python, phrasing the JSON responses.  • Used JSON based and RESTful API for information extraction.  • Create "test modules" in python, internal processes for step-by-step system testing.  • Responsible for production implementation and system maintenance.  • Management of information in Cloud based VOIP solution in terms of basic usability/load/performance/audio quality.  • Demonstrate expertise in implementing overall CRM with Call Center, Five9, Oracle CCAand Voice over IP.  Environment: Spark, Python 2.7, Django 1.4, MySQL, Machine learning, Amazon EC2, Amazon SQS, S3, Windows, Linux, HTML, CSS, AngularJS, JQuery, JavaScript, Apache. Python Developer BBVA Compass - Birmingham, AL November 2015 to December 2016 Description: BBVA Compass Bancshares, Inc. (formerly Compass Bancshares) is a United States-based financial holding company headquartered in Birmingham, Alabama.    Responsibilities:  • Analyzed system requirements specifications and in client interaction during requirements specifications.  • Implemented Model View Control architecture in developing web applications usingDjango Framework.  • Develop the Perl and Shell scripts to automate the finance billing file.  • Designed the front end of the application using Python Scripting, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON and jQuery.  • Experience working with AWS for Storage & content delivery and Application deployment services.  • Implemented various Spark Actions and Transformations by creating RDD's in HDFS  • Strong experience in writing Perl scripts covering data feed handling, implementing business logic, communicating with web-services  • Used several Machine learninglibraries like wxPython, numPY and matPlotLib.  • Developed rich user interface using CSS3, HTML5, JavaScript, AngularJS, JQueryand JSON.  • Created UI using JavaScript and HTML5/CSS.  • Designed and developed MySQL Stored Procedures and Shell Scripts for Data Import/Export and Conversions.  • Used Git and Jira for code submissions and review process.  • Build all database mapping classes using Django models and Cassandra.  • Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, OracleDB, PostgreSQL, and VMWare API calls.  • Developed applications especially in LINUX environment and familiar with all of its commands.  • Designed the NLP architecture to increase speed for big data.  • Worked on improving code for NLP for understanding solution.  • Added a united framework for entity detection in NLP for auto framework.  • Writing MapReduce job with Hadoop and MapReduce Java API. Analyzing bigdata by transforming, normalization and joining data.  • Implemented AWS IAM for managing the credentials of applications that runs on EC2 instances.  • Using Hive to be exploring and analyzing Bigdata to gain initial inside of data.  • Designed and Developed automation scripts using SeleniumWebDriver.  • Collaborated with internal teams to convert end user feedback into meaningful and improved solutions.  • Implemented AWS solutions using E2C, S3, RDS, EBS, Elastic Load Balancer, Auto-scaling groups.  • Resolved ongoing problems and accurately documented progress of a project.    Environment: Python/Scripting, Django, JavaScript, HTML5, XHTML, JQuery, JSON, XML, CSS3, MySQL, AngularJS, Cassandra, Git, LINUX, AWS, E2C, S3, RDS, EBS. Python Developer Chevron - San Ramon, CA January 2014 to October 2015 Description: Chevron Corporation is an American multinational energy corporation. One of the successor companies of Standard Oil, it is headquartered in San Ramon, California, and active in more than 180 countries.    Responsibilities:  • Worked on designing, coding and developing the application in Python using DjangoMVC.  • Worked in design patterns and page objects and CSS location selectors.  • Writing backend programming in Python Scripting.  • Designed the front end of the application using Python, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON and JQuery. Worked on backend of the application, mainly using Active Records.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • We have implemented pyspark for Transformation and Actions in Spark  • Associated on CSS Bootstrap to develop web applications.  • Used Django configuration to manage URL's and application parameters  • Added Celery task queue and broker using RabbitMQ.  • Performed Compatibility testing of application for dynamic and static content of browsers using HTML ID'S and XPATH.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  • Used many Regular Expression to match the pattern with the existing one.  • Used Python LibraryBeautiful Soup for webscrapping.  • Updated the client admin tool to have the new features like support for internalization, support for customer service etc.  • Refactored existing project to make it more RESTful and thread-safe.  • Worked on updating the existing clip board to have the new features as per the client requirements.  • Managed the Migration from heritage framework to AWS cloud platform using Cloud formation templates.  • Maintained Virtual private cloud (VPC) using AWS and resources like Route53, Nat Gatewayand RDS.  • Developed automated front-end tests using Selenium with Python.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.    Environment: Python/Scripting, Django,), JavaScript, HTML5, Beautiful Soap, CSS3, MySQL, RESTful, Bootstrap, RabbitMQ, AWS, Route53, Nat Gateway, RDS. Python Developer Humana Healthcare Insurance - Lancaster, SC October 2012 to December 2013 Description: Health insurance plans and related healthcare benefits for Medicare, individual or group health insurance. Manage your healthcare choices with Humana.    Responsibilities:  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django'sview controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Created UI using JavaScript and HTML5/CSS.  • Design and Analysis of application.  • Used Django APIs for database access.  • Worked as freelance Web Designer on various web design and development projects as well asUI design projects.  • Expertise in locating the web elements using XPATH and CSS.  • Used JavaScript and XML to update a portion of a webpage.  • Experience with advanced CSS concepts and also building table-free layouts.  • Djangois used for the configuration, to manage parameter applications and also URL's.  • Developed API modularizing existing python module with the help of PyYAML libraries  • Associated with development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Manage, collaborate and coordinate the work of an offshore development team.  • Created database using MySQL, wrote several queries to extract/store data.  • Performed optimization of test server by implementing multiprocessing for the caching system, improved user experience.  • Wrote unit test cases for testing tools.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django, MySQL, UNIX, HTML, CSS, Apache, JavaScript, Linux, XML. Python Developer INFOSYS - Bengaluru, Karnataka January 2011 to September 2012 Responsibilities:  • Design, developed, test, deploy and maintain the website.  • Coding and execution of scripts in Python/Unix/VB.  • Recording of Scripts (Web, Web Services HTML) using Vugen and SoapUI and script validation through co correlations, parameterizations and other methods. Scripting- web and web services  • Data set up using SQL/ORACLE/Teradata.  • Resolving Complexity in the scripts of the Ecommerce website due to the complex logic and correlations.  • Execution of batch jobs in Control M, Perfmon and other tools.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django/Java module to deliver certain format of data.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Handled all the client-side validation using JavaScript.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code  • Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.    Environment: Python, C+, HP LOAD (VUGEN, Controller, etc.) Putty, SQL, Teradata, SoapUI, ControlM, PerfMon, developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework, MySQL, Linux, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, Apache Web Server. Java / Python Developer Virtusa - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2009 to December 2010 Responsibilities:  • Developed entire modules using Java and Python using Web Frameworks.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Designed and developed user interactive interfaces.  • Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application  • Designed complex application database SQL statements for querying, updating and reporting using Python Database Connector.  • Developed in Windows and going to deploy it in Linux server.  • Build SQL queries implementing functions, packages, views, triggers, and tables.  • Rewrite existing Java, C++ application in Python.  • Performed database operations and queries using MySQL.  • Designed complex application database SQL statements for querying, updating and reporting using Python Database Connector.  • Responsible for running and maintaining business processes on daily / weekly / monthly basis.    Environment: Java, Python, Django, MySQL, Linux, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, SQL, MySQL, Apache Web Server, UNIX. Skills CSS (9 years), DJANGO (9 years), HTML (9 years), JAVASCRIPT (9 years), PYTHON (9 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:    Programming Languages Python, Java, C/C++, PERL, SQL and PL/SQL.  Web Technologies HTML, CSS, DOM, SAX, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, XML, AngularJS.  J2EE Technologies JSP, Java Servlets, JNDI, JDBC and JMS.  Frameworks Django, Zope, PyJamas, Python, CSS Bootstrap  Application servers Apache Tomcat, JBoss, WebLogic, WebSphere  Deployment Tools Heroku, Amazon EC2, Machine learning, NLP  Testing Tools Bugzilla, and JIRA.  IDE's/ Development Tools NetBeans, Eclipse, IDLE, PyCharm, PyScripter, PyStudio, and Sublime Text.  Cloud AWS, Amazon EC2, Amazon S3, Amazon Simple DB RedShift, Elastic Search.  Analytic Tools JMP PRO, SAS, Tableau, UCI NET, NodeXL  Databases Oracle, My SQL, Apache Cassandra, Big Data, Spark, MongoDB  Version Control SVN, CVS, Git, GitHub.  Protocols TCP/IP, HTTP/HTTPS, SOAP, SMTP    Operating Systems Windows, Red hat Linux 4.x/5.x/6.x, Ubuntu.