Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - Regions Bank Birmingham, AL • Over 9+ years of experience as a Web/Application Developer and coding with analytical programming using Python, Java.  • Experienced in MVW frameworks like Django, Java Script, JQuery and Node.js.  • Expert knowledge and experience in Object oriented Design and Programming concepts.  • Experience in Multi-Tier distributed Enterprise applications.  • Good experience of software development in Python (libraries used: libraries- Beautiful Soup, NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas data frame, network, urllib2, MySQL for database connectivity) and IDEs - sublime text, Spyder, pycharm, Eclipse, Emacs.  • Good experience in Shell Scripting, SQL Server, UNIX and Linux.  • Experienced in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM Process.  • Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, Python /PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, Python /PHP) Architecture.  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  • Developed ColdFusion Components, custom tags and modified CF Objects.  • Strong knowledge in Distributed Systems and Client/ Server Architecture.  • Hands on Experience in working with the Cassandra Query Language (CQL) for querying the data present in the Cassandra.  • Created video publishing toolkit using WordPress (PHP/MySQL) and JavaScript to allow easy uploading of video by non-technical content mangers.  • Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Python Developer Regions Bank - Birmingham, AL September 2017 to Present Description: Regions Financial Corporation is a bank and financial services company. The company provides the retail and commercial banking, trust, securities brokerage, mortgage and insurance products and services. Regions Financial Corporation, with $123 billion in assets, is a member of the S&P 500 Index and is one of the nation's largest full-service providers of consumer and commercial banking, wealth management, mortgage and insurance products and services.  Responsibilities:  • Worked on Pandas to import the data, Sort and plot the statistical data.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Different testing methodologies like unit testing, Integration testing, web application testing was performed.  • Used Pandas for Statistical Analysis in the application and Numpy for the advance math functionalities.  • Used python libraries like NumPy and matplotlib.  • Involved in creating Hive tables, loading with data and writing hive queries that will run internally in map reduce way.  • MySQL Procedures and MySQL Connector, PyMySQL were designed and developed for Data Import/Export and Conversions.  • Created Dashboard reports using Tableau once the data analytics is completed and submit to the Business group.  • Designed and developed various analytical reports from multiple data sources by blending data on a single worksheet in Tableau Desktop.  • Composed moderate to complex SQL queries to analyze large and complex data sets.  • Used ETL for handling of the raw data, organizing and structuring the data.  • Views and Templates were developed with Python and to create a user-friendly website interface Django view controller and template language is used.  • Ensured high quality data collection and maintaining the integrity of the data.  • Involved in Unit testing the SQL Scripts for report development, Tableau reports, Dashboards and handled the performance issues effectively.  • Worked on Big data analytics like Apache Hive, Apache HBase.  • Developed and implemented the user registration and login feature for the application process from scratch by extending Django user model.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  Environment: Python, Django, HTML, Hive, Spark, Apache, Tableau, JavaScript, MySQL, Hadoop. Sr. Python Developer Samsonite - Mansfield, MA July 2016 to August 2017 Description: Samsonite is the world's leading luggage brand with an extensive legacy in trendsetting travel solutions. Renowned for breakthrough research, development and its commitment to innovation, Samsonite has since its inception excelled in a number of industry firsts, including the exclusive use of the revolutionary Curv® material in the luggage arena. Samsonite offers an extensive range of travel, business, kids, casual and personal accessory products to help travellers journey further, with ever lighter and stronger products.  Responsibilities:  • Worked in Agile development following Scrum process, Sprint and daily stand-up meetings.  • Developed Views and Templates with Django view controller and template language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Compile and analyze data, processes, and codes to troubleshoot problems and identify areas for improvement.  • Recording data and reporting it to proper parties, such as clients or leadership.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Ensured high quality data collection and maintaining the integrity of the data.  • Handled potential points of failure through error handling and communication of failure.  • Using redis implemented sticky sessions across many servers.  • Implemented message and job queue in redis.  • Using publish/Subscribe technology broadcasted messages to every server listening.  • Worked on frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Implemented and enhanced CRUD operations for the applications using the MVT (Model View Template) architecture of Django framework and Python conducting code reviews.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Created APIs, database Model and Views Utilization Python in order to build responsive web page application.  • Wrote Python modules to extract/load asset data from the MySQL source database.  • Used GitHub for Python source code version control, Jenkins for automating the build Docker containers, and deploying in Mesos.  • Designed and implemented a dedicated MySQL database server to drive the web apps and report on daily progress.  • Used PyUnit, the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications.  • Worked on Jenkins continuous integration tool for deployment of project.  • Automated the continuous integration and deployments using Jenkins, Docker, Ansible and AWS Cloud Templates.  • Participated in requirement gathering and worked closely with the architect in designing and modeling.  • Developed, tested and debugged software tools for clients and internal customers of the organization.  • Coded test programs and evaluated existing engineering processes.  • Search engine optimization by replacing existing database with MongoDB (NoSQL Database).  • Documented company Restful API's using Swagger for internal and third part use and also worked on Unit testing and Integration testing.  • Used Git for the version control.  • Created a Git repository and added the project to GitHub.  • Collaborated with internal teams and external teams to solve the issues and giving feedbacks.  • Worked on object-oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, Django and Linux.  • Used JIRA for bug tracking and issue tracking.  • Practical experience with working on multiple environments like development, testing, production.  • Documented the problems and progress of project most accurately.  Environment: Python, Django, HTML5/CSS, MySQL, JavaScript, Eclipse, Linux, Shell Scripting, jQuery, GitHub, JIRA. Sr. Python Developer Costco - Columbus, OH May 2015 to June 2016 Description: Costco is a membership warehouse club, dedicated to bringing members the best possible prices on quality brand-name merchandise. With hundreds of locations worldwide, Costco provides a wide selection of merchandise, plus the convenience of specialty departments and exclusive member services, all designed to make shopping experience a pleasurable one.  Responsibilities:  • Created UI using JavaScript and HTML/CSS and also involved in the analysis and design of application.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Bootstrap, CSS and JavaScript.  • Implemented business logic using Python/Django and created backend database T-SQL stored procedures and Jasper Reports.  • Worked with millions of database records on a daily basis, finding common errors and bad data patterns and fixing them.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Worked in various front-end tools like HTML, CSS, JavaScript, XML, JQuery, Angular JS and AJAX.  • Developed build and deployment scripts using ANT and MAVEN as build tools in Jenkins to move from one environment to other environments.  • Built various graphs for business decision-making use of Python matplotlib library.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  • Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  • Refactored existing project to make it more RESTful and thread-safe and added unit tests and improved existing ones.  • Designed RESTful XML web service for handling AJAX requests and created project designs utilizing MVC architecture components. Developed the JSON structure for the data transfer in between the Goggle Web Toolkit (UI) and business tier.  Environment: Python, Django, HTML/CSS, UNIX, MS SQL Server, T-SQL, Jasper, Reports, JavaScript, Eclipse, Linux, Shell Scripting, RESTful, MVC3. Python Developer Walgreens - Seattle, WA September 2013 to April 2015 Description: The Walgreens is an American company that operates as the second-largest pharmacy store chain in the United States behind CVS Health. It specializes in filling prescriptions, health and wellness products, health information, and photo services.  Responsibilities:  • Participated in the complete SDLC process and used PHP to develop website functionality.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS, BIG DATA and JavaScript.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Designed and developed Use-Case, Class and Object Diagrams using UML Rational Rose for Object Oriented Analysis/Object Oriented Design techniques.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL. Built application logic using Python.  • Used Django APIs for database access.  • Provided GUI utilizing PyQt for the end user to create, modify and view reports based on client data.  • Angular.js is used to build efficient backend for client web application.  • Used Python to extract information from XML files.  • Expertise in Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) and its related technologies like Web Services, BPEL, WSDLs, SOAP, XML, XSD, XSLT etc.  • Participated in requirement gathering and worked closely with the architect in designing and modeling.  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures on MYSQL.  • Developed shopping cart for Library and integrated web services to access the payment (E-commerce).  • Designed and developed a horizontally scalable APIs using Python Flask.  • Designed Cassandra schema for the APIs.  • Implemented monitoring and established best practices around using elastic search.  • Effectively communicated with the external vendors to resolve queries.  • Used GIT for the version control.  Environment: Python, JavaScript, Django Framework, CSS, SQL, MySQL, LAMP, JQuery, Adobe Dreamweaver, Apache web server. Python Developer Pay U Dollar - San Jose, CA November 2011 to August 2013 Description: PayU is a fintech company that provides payment technology to online merchants. It allows online businesses to accept and process payments through payment methods that can be integrated with web and mobile applications.  Responsibilities:  • Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website.  • Configurable Data source and Data model, Data Model can be defined in XML.  • Involved in coding reviews and enhancement of application.  • Involved in using XML for developing tool for user interface customization.  • Designed the front-end applications, user interactive (UI) web pages using web technologies like HTML, XHTML, JavaScript, AJAX and CSS.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Responsible for source code and version control (VSS), Involved in integration and deployment.  • Developing the application as per the requirements.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using python.  • Handled all the client-side validation using JavaScript.  • Developed various components of the application and unit test them.  • Written SQL Queries to interact with Oracle database.  • Successfully executed all the test cases and fixed any bugs/issues identified during the test cycles.  Environment: Python, Django, Mod_ python, JQuery, JavaScript, AJAX, HTML/XHTML, XML, MySQL server, GIT, Reports, Shell Scripts, Linux. Python Developer WINSOFT TECHNOLOGIES - Pune, Maharashtra March 2009 to October 2011 Description: Winsoft is a leading IT solutions company specializing in cutting edge solutions for the financial organizations. The breakthrough product offerings and solutions have a combination of domain knowledge, latest technology, and best practices. The gamut of products addresses requirements of Financial Institutions - Banks, Mutual Fund, Insurance, Depository Participants, Wealth managers, and trading industry.  Responsibilities:  • Carried out various mathematical operations for calculation purpose using Python library numpy.  • Designed and developed components using Python with Django framework. Implemented code in python to retrieve and manipulate data.  • Designed back end and part of the front end of the application using python on Django web framework.  • Used Test driven approach for developing the application and Implemented the unit tests using Python Unit test framework.  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Experience working with SSH client on the Linux Operating System.  • Wrote Python normalizations scripts to find duplicate data in different environments.  • Followed Agile Methodologies to manage full life-cycle development of the project.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, HTML, Java, Bootstrap, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Performed the development in using LAMP and WAMP open source web service stacks.  • Engaged in understanding PHP Code and re-build the code in Python.  Environment: Python, Django, MySQL, PHP, LAMP, WAMP, Java, Tableau, Windows, Linux Education Bachelor's in Computer Science & Engineering in Computer Science & Engineering JNTU 2009 Skills HTML (9 years), JAVASCRIPT (9 years), PYTHON (9 years), CSS (8 years), LINUX (6 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:    Operating Systems Windows, Linux, Unix  Programming Languages Python 2.7/3.6, C, C++  Scripting Languages CSS, JavaScript, Shell Scripting  Servers RESTful Web Service, Apache Tomcat, IBM Web Sphere  Python Libraries NumPy, Pandas data frame, Beautiful Soup, Matplotlib  Tools PyCharm, PL/SQL Developer, FileZilla, Apache Tomcat  Version Control Tools GitHub, SVN  Tracking Tools JIRA, Git, VersionOne  Markup languages HTML, XML, JSON