Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Tata Consultancy Services Limited • 2 years of experience on Python.  • Good knowledge of Git.  • Good Knowledge of MongoDB.  • Developed web-based applications using Python, Django, HTML, CSS.  • Ability to deal with different people.  • Excellent communication and interpersonal skills.  • Good knowledge on design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS. Work Experience Python Developer Tata Consultancy Services Limited May 2016 to Present Education B.Tech Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University - Kakinada, ANDHRA PRADESH, IN 2016 Additional Information • Operating Systems: Windows, Linux.  • Languages: Python  • Scripting: HTML, CSS  • Frameworks: Django, Bootstrap  • Databases: MongoDB  • Version Control: Git  • Debugging Tools: Sublime Text, PyCharm.    PROJECT THESIS:  1) Projects #: Prime Hotels    Project Name: Prime Hotels Management System  Domain: Hospitality&Travel  Role: Application Developer    Project Description:  This project is a hotel management system which is used for maintaining the information for each and every customer. Features include memberships, destination search, and payment system for travel agents membership renewal, newsletters, promotion campaigns, shopping cart.    Responsibilities:    • Performed System Analysis and detail application design  • Held overall responsibility of coordination of implementations of software builds and releases  • Provided analytics to help determine optimal way to assemble releases  • Facilitated release planning meetings to construct efficient releases that reflect demand and capacity  • Tracked any additions, deletions or change in scope on the published release plan including efficient tracking of defects.  • Built the release plan roadmap and keep maintained for communication  • Worked on UI modification using HTML, CSS and Bootstrap.  • Developed Application logic using Python and Django.  • Wrote backend data access Logic using MongoDB.  • Used Web Services to extract Supplier inventory for various high end items.  • Integrated the application with different internal system.  • Used Git for the version control.  • Designed and implemented QA infrastructure for automated testing of a multi process software product.  • Involved in Unit, Integration testing.  • Deployment of Application in the client Environment and support to client while deployment.  Environment: Python, Django, MongoDB, CSS, HTML, Linux, Bootstrap.    2) Projects #: Symbiosys Core Banking System  Project Name: Symbiosys (Complete Core Banking Solution).  Domain: Banking.  Role: Application Developer.    Project Description:  This Project is a comprehensive, parameter driven complete banking solution designed product to work specially for the banking sector. The aim of the project is to redesign website, create dynamic web pages for online banking system. Configure database to maintain the entire customer. This project is differentiated in various modules like Administration, Transactions, Deposits, Over Draft, Cash Clearing and Custom Reports.    Responsibilities:  • Responsibilities include database design, code profiling and extensive documentation  • Developed JavaScript API used by clients to integrate the application with other modules.  • Increased developer productivity by using efficient programming methodologies and local development.  • Understanding the process and Interacting with front end team.  • Preparing Flow Charts & Algorithms for the proposed system.  • Developed and modified Python code to make new enhancements or resolve problems, as per client requirements.  • Generating Reports on Daily, Weekly, Monthly and Quarterly basis using Cristal Reports.  • Designing, developing, testing, and troubleshooting of the software.    Environment: Python, Django, MongoDB, Linux, HTML, CSS, Apache Web Server.    Declaration:  I hereby declare that the information furnished above is true to the best of my knowledge and belief.  Date: (G.VENKATESH)  Place:BENGALURU