Python Fullstack Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> Fullstack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Fullstack Developer - Bank of America Plano, TX • Python Developer with 6 years over-all experience in Information Technology - strong background in Development, Design, and Roll-out.  • Experienced with full software development life-cycle, architecting scalable platforms, object oriented programming, database design and agile methodologies.  • Expertise in writing Automation test scripts using QTP 10.0 and VB script.  • Experienced in MVW frameworks like Django, Angular JS, Java Script, JQuery and Node.js.  • Experience object oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, C++ and PHP.  • Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, Python /PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, Python /PHP) Architecture.  • Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache.  • Excellent experience with Python development under Linux OS (Debian, Ubuntu, SUSE Linux, RedHat Linux, Fedora)  • Expert knowledge of and experience in Object oriented Design and Programming concepts.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, PHP, C++, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Experience with Unit testing/ Test driven Development (TDD), Load Testing.  • Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  • Created video publishing toolkit using Wordpress (PHP/MySQL) and JavaScript to allow easy uploading of video by non-technical content mangers.  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  • Developed ColdFusion Components, custom tags and modified CF Objects.  • Wrote AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings.  • Excellent analytical and communication skills with ability to interact with individuals at all levels.  • Hands-on experience in writing and reviewing requirements, architecture documents, test plans, design documents, quality analysis and audits.  • Front end development experience using HTML, CSS, JQuery, JSON and JavaScript.  • Good Exposure in maintaining various version controls.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Prepared best practice documents for external customers and worked closely with third party vendors.  • Ability to work independently, and with minimum supervision. Work Experience Python Fullstack Developer Bank of America - Plano, TX May 2014 to Present Responsibilities  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Participated in the complete SDLC process.  • Developed user interface using CSS, HTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Developed Business logic using Python 2.7  • Used Django framework for application development.  • Developed and maintained various automated web tools for reducing manual effort and increasing efficiency of the Global Trading Team.  • Created database using MySQL, wrote several queries to extract data from database.  • Performed automated/manual Testing of application using tools like LoadRunner, VUGEN and SoapUI.  • Wrote scripts in Python for automation of testing jobs.  • Effectively communicated with the external vendors to resolve queries.  • Used GIT for the version control.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django1.4, C++, LoadRunner, VUGEN, SOAPUI, HTML, Restful API, Oracle 9i, Shell Scripting, PL/SQL, ODBC, GIT, Linux and Windows NT. Python Programmer Auto Nation.com - New York, NY May 2013 to July 2014 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Participated in the complete SDLC process.  • Developed rich user interface using CSS, HTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Created Business Logic using Python 2.7.  • Used Django framework for application development.  • Created database using MySQL, wrote several queries and Django API's to extract data from database.  • Created specific images using Python Imaging Library for the custom images used for each book.  • Wrote scripts in Python for extracting data from HTML file.  • Effectively communicated with the external vendors to resolve queries.  • Used Git for the version control.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.7, MySQL, Windows, Linux, HTML, CSS, JQuery, JavaScript, Apache, Linux. Python Developer Rackspace - San Antonio, TX February 2012 to May 2013 Responsibilities:  • Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website.  • Coding and execution of scripts in Python/Unix/VB.  • Development of Application using Java and Python  • Recording of Scripts (Web, Web Services HTML) using VuGen and SoapUI and script validation through co correlations, parameterizations and other methods. Scripting- web and web services  • Data set up using SQL/ORACLE/Teradata.  • Resolving Complexity in the scripts of the Ecommerce website due to the complex logic and correlations.  • Script validation sometimes becomes challenging as it demanded many web based logic rat rather than correlation and parameterization.  • Running load/endurance tests using VuGen, ALM and controller, server monitoring, analysis using Dynatrace, UNIX putty, SQL logs and other tools and reporting the performance. Analyzing errors and exceptions using putty logs (unix), etc  • Testing in Citrix protocol with scripts and scenario.  • Execution of batch jobs in Control M, Perfmon and other tools.  • Scripting and validation of scripts through correlation, parameterization and web based lo logic, testing (Smoke test, Load test, Endurance) using Controller for a duration further analysis, checking response times, CPU utilizations, memory leaks of servers and other performance characteristics of the website through capturing Perfmon logs and creating PAPAL reports and creating test reports. Many other tasks in additional.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django/Java module to deliver certain format of data.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using python.  • Responsible for search engine optimization to improve the visibility of the website.  • Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code  • Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  Environment: Python, PHP, C++, MySQL, Linux, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, Apache Web Server, Django Python Developer TekTak - Kathmandu May 2010 to February 2012 Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed Use-Case Diagrams, Class Diagrams, and Object Diagrams using UML Rational Rose for OOA/OOD techniques.  • Developed Application using Java J2EE Platform  • Designed and developed components using C++.  • Development of real-time multitasking systems using C++.  • Implemented database access and data manipulation functions in Oracles Embedded SQL environment using ODBC.  • Interface allows distributed modules of an enterprise system to access databases via HTTP across networks.  • Database layer that interacts with above C++ components designed as PL/SQL packages / objects (running on Oracle 9i database server) to encapsulate data and closely related stored procedures and functions.  • Created data access modules in C++.  • Designed object model, data model, tables, constraints, necessary stored procedures, functions, triggers, and packages for Oracle Database.  • Developed and executed User Acceptance Testing portion of test plan.  • Debugging Software for Bugs.  Environment: Java, Javascript, JSP, C++, C, HTML, UML, Rational Rose, Multithreading, HTTP, Shell Scripting, PL/SQL, ODBC, Pro*C, PVCS, Oracle 9i, Linux and Windows NT. Additional Information Technical Proficiency:    Languages Python 3.0/2.7/2.4, C++, C and Java.  Python Framework Django 1.8.x/1.7.x  Databases MySQL, SQL Server 2008, PostgreSQL  Web Technologies AJAX, JavaScript, HTML, DHTML, XHTML, XML  Versioning Tools Git, Mercurial, Perforce, SVN, CVS  Applications/Web servers Apache, IIS  Operating systems Linux/Unix, MAC OS, FreeBSD, Ubuntu, Windows.