Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - Autodesk Work Experience Sr. Python Developer Autodesk - Manchester, NH April 2017 to Present Responsibilities: ? Complete development and expertise in Rest framework in Django.  ? Developed Server-side automation using Node JS scripting and connecting different types of SQL and NoSQL stores from Node JS.  ? Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format ? Query Optimization through MYSQL server tools for quick response time and using Golang.  ? Involved in Developing a Restful service using Python Django framework.  ? Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework with GIT.  ? Designing Celery and multithreading for scheduling the tasks and multiple activities.  ? Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture.  ? Expertise in code review for the code developed by team and suggesting the relevant and appropriate changes.  ? Worked on various modules like rest framework, mock, asyncio, freezgun, Numpy etc.; ? Perform Jenkins administration, updating plugins, setting up new projects and debugging build problems.  ? Developed unit and functional tests in Python and Ruby.  ? Working with writing single-threaded concurrent code using coroutines, multiplexing I/O access over sockets using the asyncio framework.  ? Developed web application using Python, Django framework, MySQL.  ? Implemented the Machine learning libraries like Numpy, Pandas, SciPy and Matplotlib for the evaluation of some algorithms and Data Visualization.  ? Worked on Ansible for the configuration management, application deployment and test automation. Experience writing Automated test scripts using Python ? Experience working with Asyncio framework for the transport and protocol abstractions and made use of concrete support for TCP, UDP, SSL, subprocess pipes, delayed calls with the Multiprocessing modules.  ? Configured AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) Groups and Users for improved login authentication ? Experience working with Ansible modules to control system resources, like services, packages or files.  ? Worked with business user representatives and other business analysts to understand the current system and the business process in place.  ? Developed rich user interface using CSS, HTML, JavaScript and JQuery. Created a Python based GUI application For Freight Tracking and processing ? Contributed to the larger team's efforts to support the day-to-day operations of its three Summit instances.  ? Gather detailed business requirements and deliver detailed business functional requirements specifications ? Conduct systems design, feasibility and cost studies and recommend cost-effective cloud solutions such as Amazon Web Services (AWS) ? Experience in working with Summit's API to assist in coding the Loader Server Adaptor and Library to specification ? Develop Interactive front end to visualize data from backend and represent in graphical manner to better understanding for user.  ? Front End coding using Angular.js using modules like angular material, angular aria, angular paging, angular google maps, etc.  ? Query Optimization through MYSQL server tools for quick response time and using Golang.  ? Experienced in hand-coding HTML5, YAML CSS3, JavaScript, Linux and other UI technologies.  ? Experienced in web applications development using Django/ Python, .NET/C#, Flask/ Python, Linux and Node.js, Angular.js, ember.js, React.js, D3.js, jQuery, Ajax while using YAML, HTML/CSS/JS, HTTP, Apache for server-side rendered application.  ? Developed the entire project using PostgreSQL. Migrating from other databases to PostgreSQL.  ? Expertise in developing web-based open stack applications using Python and Django for large dataset analysis.  ? Worked on PowerShell for the purposes of automation and also made use of command line shell and shell scripting.  ? Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database, also worked on Python ETL file loading and use of regular expression.  ? Created Branches, Labels and performed Merges in Stash and GIT.  ? Administering Code Repositories in SVN and Bit bucket. Experience in providing QE estimates.  ? Involved in the complete Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) to develop the application.  ? Followed AGILE development methodology to develop the application.  ? Used Test driven approach (TDD) for developing services required for the application. Implemented Integration test cases.    Environment: Python 3.6/2.7, PyQuery, HTML5, CSS3, Angular 2.0, Shell Scripting, JSON, REST, Apache Spark, Django, SQL, UNIX, Linux, Windows, Summit API, catch2, NoSQL, PostgreSQL, and python libraries such as PySpark, Numpy, Tensorflow, keras, SQLAlchemy, AWS etc. Python Developer Apple Inc - Sunnyvale, CA July 2015 to January 2017 Responsibilities: ? Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  ? Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  ? Implemented REST API in Python and Shell Scripting to register Metadata ? Expertise in MVW frameworks like Django, Angular JS, JavaScript, jQuery and Node JS.  ? Carried out various mathematical operations for calculation purpose using python libraries.  ? Built various graphs for business decision making using Python matplotlib library.  ? Fetched twitter feeds for certain important keyword using python-twitter library ? Used Python library Beautiful Soup for web-scraping.  ? Developed a RESTful web services using Python and Django to retrieve and save data.  ? Expert with at least one language and good with several others, such as React, Ruby/Rails, Node.js and Python.  ? Developed applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all of its commands.  ? Deployed the project into Heroku using GIT version control system.  ? Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main application ? Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  ? Developed front end page using HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  ? Generated property list for every application dynamically using python.  ? Collecting the several usage models and functions from the team members.  ? Developing and maintenance of the tool that abstracts the information for the user.  ? Development of XMLs for several components which maintains data for several registers.  ? Used multithreading and multiprocessing to serve multiple client request ? Designed and developed SQL procedures and Linux shell scripts for data import/export and data conversions.  ? Utilized various IDEs and internal debug tools during debugging.  ? Analyzing the data in design database.  ? Used SVN for version control ? Built enterprise wide DNS historical data trending analysis tools in Go (Golang), Languages with REST API for user quieries as microservice ? Wrote ANSIBLE Playbooks with Python, SSH as the Wrapper to Manage Configurations of AWS Nodes and Test Playbooks on AWS instances using Python. Run Anisole Scripts to provision Dev servers.  ? Involved in gathering business requirements, analyzing the project and created UML diagrams such as Use Cases, Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams and flowcharts for the Optimization module using Microsoft Visio.  ? Developed web components using JSP, Servlets, and JDBC.  ? Implemented database using MySQL.  ? Implemented J2EE standards, MVC2 architecture using Spring Framework.  ? Developed and implemented the MVC Architectural Pattern using Spring Framework including JSP, Servlets and Action classes.  ? Used AWS cloud for the uploads of the reports to S3 bucket , working on IBM Datastage Modules on Cloud ? Used JSP, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, CSS, and HTML as data and presentation layer technology.  ? Architected and developed Python and Django for the backend development and front-end application using React, Webpack, Redux, and ES6/7 and PostgreSQL for database.  ? Worked on Django ORM module for signing complex queries.  ? Defined different Django API profiling techniques for faster rendering information.  ? Used Ansible, Vagrant and Docker for managing the application environments.  ? Worked on Django Signals, Celery and RabbitMQ queues.  ? Developed Python scripts for testing the car functioning on different services.  ? Worked with Splunk for testing the performance and debugging server level problems.  ? Implemented various Validation Controls for form validation and implemented custom validation controls using Object Oriented JavaScript.  ? Used React JS in components like JSX, creating React components, Virtual DOM, ReactProps, Lifecycle methods, working with React States and Events.  ? Developed Restful microservices using Flask and Django and deployed on AWS servers using EBS and EC2.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.4, HTML5, CSS, XML, MySQL, JavaScript, Angular JS, Backbone JS, JQuery, CSS Bootstrap, Mongo DB, MS SQL Server, T-SQL, JavaScript, Eclipse, Git, GitHub, AWS, Linux, Shell Scripting. Netbeans, Jboss, Mercurial, ClearCase, Selenium, Water fall model, UML, JSP & SERVLET, ANT, Xml. Python Consultant Nationwide Insurance Group - Columbus, OH April 2013 to June 2015 Responsibilities: ? Created server-monitoring daemon with Psutil, supported by Django app for analytics, which I created. Also researched big data solutions with Cassandra database.  ? Worked on development of customer support and complains registration system. This is a Customer feedback and complains management system.  ? Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website.  ? Coding and execution of scripts in Python/Unix/VB ? Development of Application using Java and Python ? Recording of Scripts (Web, Web Services HTML) using Vugen and SoapUI and script validation through co correlations, parameterizations and other methods. Scripting - web and web services ? Data set up using SQL/ORACLE/Teradata.  ? Resolving Complexity in the scripts of the website due to the complex logic and correlations ? Script validation sometimes becomes challenging as it demanded many web based logic rather than correlation and parameterization.  ? Running load/endurance tests using Vugen, ALM and controller, server monitoring, analysis using Dyanatarce, UNIX putty, SQL logs and other tools and reporting the performance. Analyzing errors and exceptions using putty logs (UNIX), etc.  ? Testing in citrix protocol with scripts and scenario.  ? Execution of batch jobs in Control M, Perfmon and other tools ? Scripting and validation of scripts through correlation, parameterization and web based logic testing (Smoke test, Load test, Endurance) using Controller for a duration further analysis, checking response times, CPU utilizations, memory leaks of servers and other performance characteristics of the website through capturing Perfmon logs and creating PAPAL reports and creating test reports.  ? Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  ? Rewrite existing Python/Django/Java module to deliver certain format of data ? Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  ? Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  ? Generated property list for every application dynamically using python.  ? Responsible for search engine optimization (SEO) to improve the visibility of the website handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  ? Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code ? Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  ? Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.    Environment: Python 2.7, C+, HP LOAD (VUGEN, Controller, etc.) Putty, SQL, Teradata, SoapUI, ControlM, Perfmon, Django Web Framework, MySQL, Linux, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, Apache Web Server. Python Developer Amdocs - Chesterfield, MO November 2011 to February 2013 Responsibilities: ? Designed the user interactive web pages as the front-end part of the web application using various web technologies like HTML, JavaScript, Angular JS, JQuery and implemented CSSframework Bootstrap for better appearance and feel.  ? Wrote scripts to Import and Export data to CSV, EXCEL formats from different environments using Python and made a Celery action using REST API call. Developed web services that make database calls for inserts, updates, and select queries.  ? Fetched twitter feeds for certain important keyword using python-twitter library.  ? Worked on Angular JS to augment browser applications with MVC capability. Developed methods for Create, Read, Update and Delete (CRUD) in Active Record.  ? Expertise in creating and developing applications for android operating system using Android Studio, Eclipse IDE, SQLite, Java, XML, Android SDK and ADT plugin.  ? Developed remote integration with third party platforms by using RESTful web services.  ? Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to created user-friendly website interface.  ? Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, OracleDB, PostgreSQL, and VMWareAPI calls.  ? Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, MySQL, Jenkins, and custom tools developed in Python.  ? Managed datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL, queried MySQL database queries from Python using Python -MySQL connector MySQLdb package to retrieve information.  ? Develop consumer based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML, Behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pairbasedprogramming.    Environment: Python, Celery, Angular, JQuery, JavaScript, AJAX, HTML/XHTML, XML, REST, MsSQL server, GIT, Reports, RESTful, Linux. Education Bachelor's in CS in CS JNTU 2011