Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - Mission Diagnostics Inc Houston, TX • 9 years of experience in IT industry with proficiency in Analysis, Design & Development Testing of Enterprise Applications and Database Development using, Python, Django, Flask and SQL projects.  • Experience in supporting QA team on application testing phase.  • Involved in software product installation and worked closely with the vendors on the application packaging and installation process.  • Excellent knowledge of Amazon EC2, Amazon S3, Amazon Elastic Load Balancing and other services of the AWS family.  • Worked on various applications using python integrated IDEs Eclipse, PyCharm. Used Pandas, Numpy, Scipy for statistical analysis  • Experienced in Designing and implementing of Test driven application development.  • Expert in creating SQL queries for the development and QA for data validation  • Developed unit testing cases and helped QA team identify/review critical scenarios for system testing.  • Experience in Devops continuous integration and deployment of Agile projects.  • Setup continuous build environment with Jenkins to do daily deployments.  • Deploy configuration updates using Chef, Ansible.  • Designed, developed, implemented, and maintained solutions for using Docker, Jenkins, Git, and Puppet for microservices and continuous deployment.  • Created forms to collect and validate data from the user in HTML5, CSS3 and ReactJS.  • Hands on experience in configuring and supporting site-to-site and remote access Cisco, IPsec, VPN solutions using ASA/PIX firewalls, Cisco and VPN client.  • Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Good experience with AmazonCloudEC2, Simple Storage Service S3,andAmazonSQS.  • Good knowledge of web services with protocols SOAP and REST.  • Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MySQL and python /PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and python /PHP) Architecture.  • Experienced with databases using ORMs/DOMs for integrating with MySQL, PostgreSQL, Neo4J,MongoDB and Cassandra SQLite. Also, experienced with writing custom queries through database connectors.  • Worked on AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings.  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  • Motivated self-starter with exceptional team building and interpersonal skills.  • Ability to excel and succeed in diverse environments and projects with strong determination, dedication and inclination towards customer satisfaction.  • Good team player with excellent communication skills and quickly adopt new technologies. Work Experience Sr. Python Developer Mission Diagnostics Inc - Norristown, PA November 2016 to Present Responsibilities:    • Implemented UI rules and norms all through the improvement and support of the site utilizing the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.    • Utilized Python libraries wxPython, numPY, Twisted and matPlotLib.    • Developed API modularizing existing Python module with the assistance of pyyaml libraries.    • Designed and arranged database and back end applications and projects.    • Used JavaScript information perception system (D3.js) to show the data in a diagram see.    • Experienced in creating Web Services with Python programming dialect.    • Involved in Unit testing, Integration testing, User-Acceptance testing, and Functional testing.    • Created custom mandates in Angular JS for re-usable parts (multi-field frame components, foundation record transfers).    • Involved in different periods of the task like Analysis, Design, Development, and Testing.    • Developed rich UI utilizing CSS, HTML, JavaScript and Jquery.    • Build SQL questions for performing different CRUD tasks like make, refresh, read and erase.    • Worked on Anti Money Laundering (AML) application to grow new modules to assemble reports for recognizing different records and exercises.    • Generating different scope organization reports (graphical) utilizing Python bundles like Numpy, matplotlib.    • Analyzing different logs that are been creating and foreseeing/determining next event of occasion with different Python libraries.    • Used Pandas library for insights Analysis. Utilized Numpy for Numerical examination for Insurance premium and Managed extensive datasets utilizing Panda information casings and MySQL.    • Analyzing the source information originating from various sources (SQL Server, Oracle, Sales drive and furthermore from level records like Access and Excel) and working with business clients and engineers to build up the Model.    • Developed single page application by utilizing Angular JS sponsored by MongoDB and NodeJS.    • Designed and kept up databases utilizing Python and created Python based API (RESTful Web Service) utilizing Flask, SQL Alchemy and PostgreSQL.  • Involved being developed of Web Services utilizing SOAP for sending and getting information from the outer interface in the XML design.    • Developed Views and Templates with Python and utilizing Django's view controller and layout dialect, Website interface is made.    • Designed and Developed User Interface utilizing front-end advancements like HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS, Bootstrap and JSON.    • Used IBM DB2 SQL put away methods and UNIX Shell Scripts for bringing in/trading Data and Conversions.    • Created Django dashboard with custom look and feel for end client after a watchful investigation of Django administrator site and dashboard.    • Python Unit test library was utilized to test numerous projects on Python and different codes.    • Performed distinctive testing strategies like unit testing, Integration testing, web application testing and selenium testing.    • For the control of information from the database different questions utilizing SQL were composed and made a database utilizing MYSQL.    • Performed Flow Control, reaction to Front-End Request utilizing PYTHON/MYSQL/AJAX.    • Implemented business rationale in Python to avert, identify and guarantee the copy installments.    • Used Django setup to oversee URLs and application parameters.    • Build all database mapping classes utilizing Django models.    • Wrote Python contents to parse XML reports and load the information in database.    • Worked with JSON based REST Web administrations and Amazon Web Services.    • Used Jenkins to send your Django application and run unit tests    Environment: python 3.4/2.7, Django 1.9, python scripting, NoSql, MongoDB,MySQL, AJAX, SOAP, REST, JQuery, JavaScript, Bootstrap, AWS (EC2, S3, RDS). Python Developer Nielsen - Oldsmar, FL January 2016 to October 2016 Responsibilities:  • Implemented UI rules and measures all through the improvement and upkeep of the site utilizing the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.    • Utilized Python libraries wxPython, numPY, Twisted and matPlotLib.    • Developed API modularizing existing Python module with the assistance of pyyaml libraries.    • Designed and arranged database and back end applications and projects.    • Used JavaScript information perception structure (D3.js) to show the data in a diagram see.    • Experienced in creating Web Services with Python programming dialect.    • Involved in Unit testing, Integration testing, User-Acceptance testing, and Functional testing.    • Created custom orders in Angular JS for re-usable segments (multi-field frame components, foundation document transfers).    • Involved in different periods of the venture like Analysis, Design, Development, and Testing.    • Developed rich UI utilizing CSS, HTML, JavaScript and Jquery.    • Developed a Front-End GUI as remain solitary Python application.    • Experience in Python, Jupiter, Scientific figuring stack (numpy, scipy, pandasand matplotlib).    • Performed investigating, settled and sent numerous Python bug fixes of the two principle applications that were a fundamental wellspring of information for the two clients and inside client benefit group.    • Wrote Python contents to parse JSON reports and load the information in database.    • Developed new contents an utilizing numerous normal articulations so as to match and concentrate information as required to agree to different consistence detailing prerequisites.    • Build SQL inquiries for performing different CRUD tasks like make, refresh, read and erase.    • Worked on Anti Money Laundering (AML) application to grow new modules to manufacture reports for recognizing different records and exercises.    • Generating different scope organization reports (graphical) utilizing Python bundles like Numpy, matplotlib.    • Analyzing different logs that are been producing and anticipating/guaging next event of occasion with different Python libraries.    • Used Pandas library for insights Analysis. Utilized Numpy for Numerical examination for Insurance premium and Managed expansive datasets utilizing Panda information edges and MySQL.    • Analyzing the source information originating from various sources (SQL Server, Oracle, Sales compel and furthermore from level records like Access and Excel) and working with business clients and designers to build up the Model.    • Developed single page application by utilizing Angular JS supported by MongoDB and NodeJS.    • Designed and kept up databases utilizing Python and created Python based API (RESTful Web Service) utilizing Flask, SQL Alchemy and PostgreSQL.    • Managed code forming with GitHub, Bit Bucket and sending to organizing and creation servers and Implemented MVC engineering in building up the web application with the assistance of Django system.    • Used Celery as errand line and RabbitMQ, Redis as informing merchant to execute offbeat undertakings.    • Designed and oversaw API framework organization utilizing quick http server and Amazon AWS engineering.    • Involved being developed of Web Services utilizing SOAP for sending and getting information from the outer interface in the XML design.    • Worked with PYTHON, MYSQL, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX and XHTML to fabricate a completely Web 2.0 consistent long range interpersonal communication site around online HD spilling video.    • Worked on Django API's for getting to the database.    • Developed Views and Templates with Python and utilizing Django's view controller and format dialect, Website interface is made.    • Designed and Developed User Interface utilizing front-end advances like HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS, Bootstrap and JSON.    • Used IBM DB2 SQL put away techniques and UNIX Shell Scripts for bringing in/trading Data and Conversions.    • Created Django dashboard with custom look and feel for end client after a watchful investigation of Django administrator site and dashboard.    • Python Unit test library was utilized to test numerous projects on Python and different codes.    • Performed diverse testing strategies like unit testing, Integration testing, web application testing and selenium testing.    • For the control of information from the database different questions utilizing SQL were composed and made a database utilizing MYSQL.    • Performed Flow Control, reaction to Front-End Request utilizing PYTHON/MYSQL/AJAX.    • Implemented business rationale in Python to forestall, recognize and assert the copy installments.    • Used Django arrangement to oversee URLs and application parameters.    • Build all database mapping classes utilizing Django models.    • Wrote Python contents to parse XML records and load the information in database.    • Worked with JSON based REST Web administrations and Amazon Web Services.    Environment: Python 3.4/2.7, Django 1.9, Python scripting, NoSql, MongoDB,MySQL, AJAX, SOAP, REST, JQuery, JavaScript, Bootstrap, AWS (EC2, S3, RDS). Jr Python Developer BCBS - Philadelphia, PA November 2013 to June 2015 Responsibilities:    • Created server-observing daemon with Psutil, upheld by Django application for investigation, which I made. Additionally looked into huge information arrangements with Cassandra database.    • Worked on advancement of client bolster and grumbles enrollment framework. This is a Customer input and gripes administration framework.    • Design, create, test, convey and keep up the site.    • Coding and execution of contents in Python/Unix/VB    • Development of Application utilizing Java and Python    • Recording of Scripts (Web, Web Services HTML) utilizing Vugen and SoapUI and content approval through co relationships, parameterizations and different techniques. Scripting - web and web administrations    • Data set up utilizing SQL/ORACLE/Teradata.    • Resolving Complexity in the contents of the site because of the unpredictable rationale and relationships    • Script approval now and then ends up testing as it requested numerous online rationale as opposed to relationship and parameterization.    • Running burden/continuance tests utilizing Vugen, ALM and controller, server observing, investigation utilizing Dynatrace, UNIX putty, SQL logs and different devices and detailing the execution. Breaking down blunders and exemptions utilizing putty logs (UNIX), and so on.    • Testing in citrix convention with contents and situation.    • Execution of clump occupations in Control M, Perfmon and different instruments    • Scripting and approval of contents through connection, parameterization and electronic rationale testing (Smoke test, Load test, Endurance) utilizing Controller for a span advance examination, checking reaction times, CPU uses, memory holes of servers and other execution attributes of the site through catching Perfmon logs and making PAPAL reports and making test reports.    • Designed and created information administration framework utilizing MySQL.    • Rewrite existing Python/Django/Java module to convey certain configuration of information    • Used Django Database API's to get to database objects.    • Wrote Python contents to parse XML reports and load the information in database.    • Generated property list for each application powerfully utilizing Python.    • Responsible for site design improvement (SEO) to enhance the perceivability of the site took care of all the customer side approval utilizing JavaScript.    • Creating unit test/relapse test structure for working/new code    • Using Subversion adaptation control instrument to facilitate group advancement.    • Responsible for investigating and investigating the web application.    Environment: Python 2.7, C+, HP LOAD (VUGEN, Controller, etc.) Putty, SQL, SoapUI, ControlM, Django Web Framework, MySQL, Linux, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, Apache Web Server. Python Programmer Cigniti Technologies Lmtd September 2010 to October 2013 Responsibilities:  • Created application benefit parts and arranged beans utilizing Spring IOC, production of Hibernate mapping documents and age of database construction.    • Implemented modules utilizing Core Java APIs, Java gathering, Threads, XML, and incorporating the modules.    • Developed Reporting structure utilizing JAVA and J2EE which will create day by day, month to month and yearly reports and arranged distinctive system configuration archives.    • Created tables, sees, Types, triggers, complex join inquiries, put away methods, and capacities and adjustments to existing database structure as required for expansion of new highlights utilizing SQL engineer.    • Involved in web planning utilizing HTML,XHTML, CSS 2, JQuery, JavaScript widely utilized Table less Design in CSS for situating.    • Used MVC Architecture in spring structure and executed custom label libraries.    • Generated Use case graphs, Activity stream outlines, Class charts and Object outlines in the plan stage.    • Used Java/J2EE Design Patterns, for example, Business Delegate, Session Facade, singleton in the task broadly, which encourages clean dissemination of parts and obligations crosswise over different layers of handling.    • Configured Hibernate second level store utilizing EHCache to diminish the quantity of hits to the design table information.    • Extensively Used Ant device to manufacture and arrange J2EE applications and utilized Log4J for signing in the application.    • Implemented customer side approvals for Search and Security modules utilizing JavaScript and Validation Framework.    • Responsible for outline and execution of different modules of the application utilizing Struts-Spring-Hibernate design.    • Automated the HTML and JSP pages ordering procedure of pursuit module utilizing ApacheAnt device and singleton configuration design.    • Tested JSPs and Servlets utilized as a part of pursuit, security and scheduler modules utilizing Cactus API.    • Done broad coding utilizing Java, J2EE for upgrades and bug settles in deft improvement condition.    Environment: Java, J2EE, JSP, Struts, Hibernate, HTML, Eclipse, Apache Ant, JavaScript, JQuery, Oracle 10g, Windows XP Skills HTML (7 years), JAVASCRIPT (7 years), PYTHON (7 years), DATABASE (7 years), ORACLE (7 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Web Languages Java, J2EE (JSP, JSF, Servlets, Struts 2.0, Spring Web Flow, JSP Tag Libraries, EJB 3.0, JDBC, JavaScript, SQL  Frameworks Spring MVC, Struts, JSF Framework, Hibernate, Apache CXF, Angular JS, Bootstrap  Methodology OOAD, OOPS, UML, RUP, Autosys  Scripting Language JavaScript, CSS.  Mark-up Language HTML,DHTML, JavaScript, Ajax, DOJO.  Python Libraries Beautiful Soup, NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib, python -twitter, Pandas data frame, urllib2  Database Oracle11g, MySQL 5.x, and SQLServer  Operating System DOS, Windows, Unix  IDE Tools Eclipse, RSA, JBuilder, Oracle ADF, Web Logic, Rational Rose, LDAP, RUP Methodology, Clear Case/Clear Quest  Web Services SOAP, REST, WSDL  Methodologies OOPS/OOAD, UML, J2EE Design Patterns  Version Control: SVN, Clear case, CVS  Tools: RAD, Eclipse, Edit Plus, Apache Ant, log4j, JUnit, Visio, ANT, Maven  Web/App. Servers: WebSphere Application Server 8.0, Apache Tomcat, Web Logic 11g/ 12c, JBoss 4.x/5.x  ORM Tools: Hibernate, JPA, iBatis  Cloud Technologies: AWS, S3.