Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - HTTPS, SOAP, SMTP Charlotte, NC ? Over 8+ years of IT Experience in designing, developing, testing and implementing of various stand-alone and client-server architecture based enterprise application software in Python on different domains.  ? Good experience in developing web applications implementing Model View Control architecture using Django, Flask, Pyramid and Zope Python web application frameworks.  ? Experience object oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, C++ and Java.  ? Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, DJANGO, GTK, QT, C++, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  ? Experience with Web Development, Amazon Web Services, Python and the Django framework.  ? Very good experience with cloud platforms like Amazon AWS and Google AppEngine.  ? Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache and Siebel.  ? Experienced in MVW frameworks like Django, Angular.js, Java Script, JQuery and Node.js.  ? Having working Knowledge of Amazon AWS S3 and Redshift.  ? Expert knowledge of and experience in Object oriented Design and Programming concepts.  ? Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python/PHP) Architecture.  ? Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache.  ? Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  ? Familiar with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services.  ? Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  ? Experienced in working with various Python Integrated Development Environments like Net Beans, PyCharm, PyScripter, Spyder, PyStudio, PyDev and Sublime Text.  ? Skilled experience in Python with proven expertise in using new tools and technical developments (libraries used: libraries- Beautiful Soup, Jasy, Numpy, Scipy, Matplotlib, Pickle, PySide, Python-twitter, Pandas data frame, networks, urllib2, MySQL dB for database connectivity) to drive .com. d  ? Strong expertise in development of web based applications using Python, Django, HTML, XML, Angular JS, CSS, DHTML, JavaScript, JSON and JQuery.  ? Effectively involved in handling releases, managing merges and deployments. Good knowledge in working with application server- Apache Tomcat (6.0, 7.0, 8.0).  ? Experience in working with Python ORM Libraries including Django ORM.  ? Expertise in working with GUI frameworks - PyJamas, Jython  ? Experience in Test Driven Development and Behavior Driven Development methodologies for consulting firms and enterprise projects.  ? Good idea about testing tools like Bugzilla and JIRA. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Python Developer HTTPS, SOAP, SMTP - Charlotte, NC October 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators, and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  ? Designed and managed API system deployment using fast HTTP server and Amazon AWS architecture  ? Setup database in AWS using RDS and configuring backups for S3 bucket.  ? Experience in setting up Elastic Load Balancers (ELB's) and Auto Scaling groups on Production EC2 Instances to build Fault-Tolerant and High Availability applications.  ? Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  ? Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation  ? Designed and maintained databases using Python and developed Python-based API (RESTful Web Service) using Flask, SQLAlchemy, andPostgreSQL.  ? Using Amazon EC2 command line interface along with Bash/ Python to automate repetitive work.  ? Developed GUI using webapp2 for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of python code using a web browser  ? Experience in Amazon Web Services (AWS) Cloud services such as EC2, EBS, S3, VPC, Cloud Watch, Elastic Load Balancer.  ? Involved in writing SQL queries implementing functions, triggers, cursors, object types, sequences, indexes etc.  ? Involved in development of the enterprise social network application using Python, Twisted, and Cassandra.  ? Responsible for setting up Python REST API framework and spring framework using Django  ? Wrote Python OO Design code for manufacturing quality, monitoring, logging, and debugging code optimization.  ? Good Experience of Databases such as MySQL, Oracle 8g/9g/10g, Microsoft SQL Server, PostgreSQL, SQL/PLSQL concepts & PowerShell.  ? Worked with Perl, JavaScript, Oracle database as the back end developer on a Linux, Windows platform.  ? Involved in Installation and setting up Python /Linux test beds.  ? Worked with JSON based REST Web services.  ? Worked in Python on a SQL database.  ? Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Version control using GitHub.  ? Delivered presentations on Project Status and Current Open Issues Report to Users, Stakeholders, and other involved groups.  ? Experience of software development with Python and various libraries of Python, python-twitter, Pandas, Dataframe, MySQL dB for database connectivity), Regular expression, File IO etc.  ? Knowledge of NoSQL databases like Apache Cassandra (1.2, 2.0 and 2.1) and Mongo DB (2.6, 2.4), Orient DB.  ? Working knowledge with application server - Apache Tomcat 6, 7, 8.  ? SQL and PL/SQL stored procedures were used to create access to data and deployed them to Oracle and SQL server databases.  ? Environment: Python, Django, Shell Scripting, WAMP, LAMP , MYSQL, AWS, Pandas, PyUnit, MS Visio, HTTP, JSON, PHP, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, Java, JavaScript, Bootstrap, Apache Web Server, PL/SQL MYSQL, GitHub, Apache Tomcat, LINUX. Python Developer Vanguard - Minneapolis, MN May 2017 to November 2017 Responsibilities:  ? Developed web applications in Django Framework's model view control (MVC) architecture.  ? Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  ? Managed, developed and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, Oracle DB, PostgreSQL and VMWare API calls.  ? Written Cloud formation templates and deployed AWS resourcing.  ? Build application and database servers using AWS EC2 and create AMIs alsousing RDS for Oracle DB.  ? Extensively used python modules such as requests, urllib, urllib 2 for web crawling.  ? Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  ? Written with object-oriented Python, Flask, SQL, Beautiful Soup, httplib2, Jinja2, HTML/CSS, Bootstrap, jQuery, Linux, Sublime Text, git.  ? Having Knowledge on AWS Lambda, Auto scaling, Cloud Front, RDS, Route53, AWS SNS, SQS, SES.  ? Gained Knowledge on Deploying apps using AWS Cloud Formation.  ? Experience in using various version control systems like Git, CVS, GitHub, Heroku and Amazon EC2.  ? Created Git repository and added the project to GitHub  ? Part of team implementing REST API's in Python using micro-framework like Flask with SQLAlchemy in the backend for management of data center resources on which OpenStack would be deployed.  ? Conducted scrum meetings and generated custom dashboards. Knowledge testing tools like Bugzilla and JIRA.  ? Tracking defects and resolving bugs using JIRA.  ? S3, ELB, RDS, Ubuntu configuration and monitoring, Munin, Supervisor, Redis MQ, Ansible,  ? Fabric, Docker  ? Designed and developed MVC applications for OpenStack.  ? Interacted with QA to develop test plans from high-level design documentation  ? Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile).  ? Involved in debugging the applications monitored on JIRA using agile methodology.  ? The methodology used here will be to introduce in a simple and abbreviated manner the components of the Jython language most likely to be used in wsadmin scripts.  ? Worked for demonstrating the capabilities and functioning of Jython.  ? Working knowledge of GUI frameworks - Jython, Pyjamas.  ? Experience on python packages like cx_oracle, pyodbc and MySQL dB for working with Oracle, SQL Server and MySQLdb.  ? Development of REST APIs using Perl modules, the interfaces to oracle database (Data Modelling) to allow data to insert, delete, update in a restricted manner.  ? Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python/PHP) Architectures Implemented signal-based message queueing using Redis MQ  ? Built a tcp/redis based job handling functionality  ? Implemented infrastructure, performed DevOps tasks (CI, Deployment Pipeline) using - EC2,  ? Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  ? Excellent Experience of Databases such as MySQL, Oracle 8g/9g/10g, Microsoft SQL Server, PostgreSQL, SQL/PLSQL concepts & PowerShell.  ? Environment: Python 2.7, Django, AWS, HTML5/CSS, MS SQL Server 2013, MySQL, JavaScript, Eclipse, Linux, Shell Scripting, JQuery, WAMP, Redis LAMP , MYSQL, GitHub, Angular.JS, Jira Jython. Python Developer Social Interest Solutions - Sacramento, CA October 2016 to February 2017 Responsibilities:  ? Wrote Python routines to log into the websites and fetch data for selected options.  ? Used Python modules such as requests, urllib, and urllib2 for web crawling.  ? Worked on writing and as well as read data from csv and excel file formats.  ? Private VPN using Ubuntu, Python, Django, CherryPy, Postgres, Redis, Bootstrap, Jquery, Mongo, Fabric, Git, Tenjin, Selenium, Sphinx, Nose.  ? Extensive with SCM tools Chef and Puppet for configuration management on multiple platforms.  ? Analysing in working with Ansible, wrote many playbooks to manage Web applications, Environments configuration Files, Users, Mount points and Packages.  ? Worked on Ansible and Ansible Tower to automate repetitive tasks, to deploy critical applications quickly, and proactively manage the changes.  ? Knowledge in Provisioning tools like Vagrant and Docker.  ? Knowledge in using Docker Cloud, Docker Swarm and Docker UCP.  ? Understanding concepts with SQL and PL/SQL scripts of data modeling.  ? Worked on different Atlassian tools like JIRA and Confluence. Extracting data from HTML file.  ? Effectively communicated with the external vendors to resolve queries.  ? Used Perforce for the version control.  ? Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.4, MySQL, Ansible via Python HTML, CSS, JQuery, JavaScript, Apache, Linux, Quality Center Python Developer 5D Solutions Pvt Ltd - Islamabad, PK August 2015 to June 2016 Islamabad, Pakistan  Responsibilities:  ? Responsible for analysis phase of the project in documenting the business requirements, conducting workshops/meetings with various business users.  ? Knowledge of API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  ? Wrote Teradata Macros and used various Teradata analytic function in Python  ? Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  ? Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  ? Used HTML, CSS, JQuery, JSON and JavaScript for front end applications for Python  ? Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  ? Used Bootstrap as a mechanism to manage and organize the html page layout in Python  ? Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  ? Built various graphs for business decision making using Python Matplotlib library.  ? Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  ? Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  ? Manage, collaborate and coordinate the work of an offshore development team.  ? Worked on rebranding the existing web pages to clients according to the type of deployment.  ? Worked on updating the existing clip board to have the new features as per the client requirements.  ? Used many regular expressions to match the pattern with the existing one.  ? Skilled in using collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  ? Environment: HTML, CSS, JQuery, JSON Python 2.7/3.0, AWS S3 and RDS, MYSQL, SOAP, Apache, CSS, MySQL, DHTML, HTML, JavaScript, Shell Scripts, Linux, UNIX and Windows. Python Developer Heurixtics Pvt Ltd - Islamabad, PK September 2014 to June 2015 Islamabad, Pakistan  Responsibilities:  ? Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis of data stored in Amazon Redshift using SQLAlchemy.  ? Worked on JavaScript MVC Framework like Angular.js.  ? Worked with Open stack Command-line client.  ? Created backend database T-SQL stored procedures and Jasper Reports.  ? Created a Git repository and added the project to GitHub.  ? Used Python modules such as requests, urllib, urllib2 for web crawling.  ? Used other packages such as Beautifulsoup for data parsing.Worked on writing and as well as read data from csv and excel file formats.  ? Worked on resulting reports of the application and Tableau reports.  ? Performed QA testing on the application.  ? Held meetings with client and worked all alone for the entire project with limited help from the client.  ? Utilize PyUnit, the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications.  ? Exported/Imported data between different data sources using SQL Server Management Studio.  ? Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  ? Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  ? Working with Database procedures, Triggers, PL/SQL statements for data retrievingand also for migration purpose.  ? Environment: Python 2.7/3.0, PL/SQL C++, Redshift, XML, Agile (SCRUM), PyUnit, MYSQL, Apache, CSS, MySQL, DHTML, HTML, JavaScript, Angular.js, Shell Scripts, Git, Linux, Unix and Windows. Python Developer Ptcl - Islamabad, PK September 2013 to July 2014 -Islamabad, Pakistan  Responsibilities:  ? Work with team of developers on python applications for management.  ? Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website.  ? Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript  ? Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  ? Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  ? Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  ? Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  ? Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  ? Expertise in writing Constraints, Indexes, Views, Stored Procedures, Cursors, Triggers and User Defined function.  ? Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  ? Environment: Python, Django 1.3, MySQL, Linux, HTML, XHTML, SVN, CSS, AJAX, Bugzilla, JavaScript, Apache Web Server, Django Software Developer Ufone - Islamabad, PK September 2012 to July 2013 -Islamabad, Pakistan  Responsibilities:  ? Designed & developed the application using Spring Framework  ? Developed and modified database objects as per the requirements.  ? Designed DAO objects for accessing RDBMS  ? Developed web pages using JSP, HTML, DHTML and JSTL  ? Involved in Unit integration, bug fixing, acceptance testing with test cases, Code reviews.  ? Interaction with customers and identified System Requirements and developed Software Requirement Specifications.  ? Implemented Java design patterns wherever required.  ? Involved in development, maintenance, implementation and support of the System.  ? Involved in initial project setup and guidelines.  ? Developed test cases for Unit testing using JUnit and performed integration and system testing  ? Involved in coding for the presentation layer using Struts Framework, JSP, HTML, DHTML and JSTL  ? Closely worked and supported the creation of database schema objects (tables, stored procedures, and triggers) using Oracle SQL/PLSQL  ? Environment: RDBMS, JSP, HTML, DHTML, JSTL, JSP, HTML, DHTML and JSTL, Oracle SQL/PLSQL. Education design and modeling School Management System September 2009 to July 2011 Bachelors in Computer Science Allama Iqbal Open University - Islamabad, PK 2009 education reports as per college requirements Skills HTML (4 years), APACHE (3 years), LINUX (3 years), PYTHON (3 years), XML (3 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:  ? Frameworks Django, Zope, PyJamas, Python, Cloudera (CDH 5.5.2), CSS Bootstrap SDETs  ? Web Technologies HTML, CSS, DOM, SAX, Java Script, JQuery, AJAX, XML, AngularJS.  ? Programming Languages Python, C, PERL, SQL and PL/SQL.  ? J2EE Technologies JSP, Java Servlets, JNDI, JDBC and JMS.  ? Version Control SVN, CVS, Git, GitHub.  ? Analytic Tools JMP PRO, SAS, Tableau, UCI NET, Node XL  ? Application servers Apache Tomcat, JBoss.  ? Databases Oracle (9i, 10g, 11g), My SQL, Apache Cassandra, MongoDB.  ? Operating Systems Windows, Red hat Linux 4.x/5.x/6.x, Ubuntu.