Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Pivotal Labs San Francisco, CA • Over 6+ Years of experience in Analysis, Design, Development and Management  • Around 4.5 years in Python (libraries used: libraries- Beautiful Soup, numpy, scipy and sublime text, Spyder, pycharm, emacs.  • Expertise in Object-Oriented design and coding..  • Good Knowledge of Django, Flask Frameworks.  • Working Knowledge of Java and java related frameworks.  • Good knowledge of web services with protocols SOAP, REST.  • Good knowledge of server Apache Tomcat, Web logic.  • Knowledge of ORM mapping using SQLACHEMY.  • Experienced with databases using ORMs/DOMs for integrating with Mysql, Postgres, Neo4J, MongoDB, Cassandra SQLite. Also, experienced with writing custom queries through database connectors.  • Leveraging queueing architectures with AMQP/RabbitMQ and ZeroMQ for scalability, performance and building distributed systems.  • Experienced in web applications development using Django/ Python, Flask/ Python, and Node.js, Angular.js, DOJO, Jquery while using HTML/CSS/JS for server-side rendered applications.  • Experienced in developing API services in Python/Tornado, NodeJS while leveraging AMQP and RabbitMQ for distributed architectures.  • Experienced in writing SQL Queries, Stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views.  • Having working Knowledge of Amazon AWS S3.  • Hands on experience in SVN, Git, JIRA, Bugzilla. Work Experience Python Developer Pivotal Labs - San Francisco, CA May 2013 to Present Responsibilities:  Wrote python routines to log into the websites and fetch data for selected options.  • Used python modules such as requests, urllib, urllib2 for web crawling.  • Used other packages such as Beautifulsoup for data parsing.  • Worked on writing and as well as read data from csv and excel file formats.  • Worked on a resulting reports of the application and Tableau reports.  • Modifying data using SAS/BASE, SAS/ MACROS.  • Performed QA testing on the application.  • Developed approaches for improving NLP pipeline.  • Create custom VB scripts in repackaging applications as needed.  • NLP File Prep Settlement-Prepare files for review for Settlement.  • Held meetings with client and worked all alone for the entire project with limited help from the client.  Environment: Python 2.7, Sypder (IDE), Windows 7, Terdata, Requests, urllib, urllib2, Beautifulsoup, Tableau, Python Scripting.  Project: Siebel CRM Trouble Ticketing Solution for Avaya     Worked in a staff augmentation role as part of a client's J2EE team, developing both web service clients and producers that interfaced with an enterprise CRM trouble ticketing system.   Development included use of JAX-RPC based web services and Siebel web services.     Developed web service client and producer code that involved extensive use of Java Reflection API to interact with Siebel "query-based" web services.     Developed custom build scripts enabling team to generate client stub code with consistent package naming conventions.     Served as liaison between Perficient Siebel development team and client J2EE team.     Performed investigation and research on development issues such as WS-Security and Axis web service logging mechanisms. Technologies/Tools/Platforms     Java 5, JAX-RPC Based Web Service Development, Linux Scripting, ANT scripting. Python Developer HighGroove, Altanta, United States April 2012 to April 2013 Responsibilities:     Worked with the design team for project structure.   • Designed, implemented, and tested numerous applications that were focused towards iOS as well as windows.   • Extensive knowledge gained in C# and the MSDN libraries provided by Microsoft.   • Great experience in OOP type programming and how to efficiently design good data structures to handle certain situations.   • Practiced good software design techniques and applied them to the various stages of the software development lifecycle.   • Developed and distributed over 3 major titles which included augmented reality applications for the Witte Museum and the San Antonio Zoo.   • Experience gained using augmented reality features on iOS and Android devices.   • Great knowledge gained in using XCode and distributing applications to the Apple app store.  • Involved in writing stored procedures using MySQL.   • Optimized the database queries to improve the performance.   • Developed in Windows and going to deploy it in Linux server.   • Worked on data exchange from website using XML, JAVA and Web Services.   Project: BPM Order Management System for FedEx Corporation     Project was to design, develop and implement the business processes and workflows to replace a legacy system that handled the internal order management of telecommunication services for globally distributed FedEx locations. The BPM solution provided FedEx Corporate the ability to expedite, track and manage these services resulting in immense cost savings and decreased provisioning times.     Java & J2EE development including the use of Spring and Struts 2.0.      Development of Java utility that interfaced with SunOne LDAP server.     Development of J2EE SSO API that leveraged the Java Cryptography API.     Design and Development of Business Processes and Workflows.     Development of DAO and SQL Maps using iBATIS.  ROR Developer ZeOmega - Plano, TX July 2010 to March 2012 Responsibilities:  • Worked with the design team for project structure.  • Performed Design and Code reviews.  • Implemented the presentation layer with HTML, DHTML, Ajax, CSS and JavaScript.  • Performed coding in C++ on Linux Platform.  • Involved in writing stored procedures using MySQL.  • Optimized the database queries to improve the performance.  • Developed in Windows and going to deploy it in Linux server.  • Worked on data exchange from website using XML, JAVA and Web Services.  • Optimized the database queries to improve the performance.  • Developed in Windows and going to deploy it in Linux server.  • Worked on data exchange from website using XML, JAVA and Web Services.    Environment: C++, XML, Java, MYSQL, Apache, CSS, ORACLE, DHTML, HTML, JavaScript, Shell Scripts, Linux and Windows, Text Parsing. Developer ROR - Cisco, CA March 2009 to June 2010 Responsibilities:    • Participated in the complete SDLC process and used PHP to develop website functionality.  • Coding in LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and PHP) environment.  • Developed GUI HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript (jQuery)  • Built application logic using Python 2.7.  • Used the Django Framework to develop the application.  • Used Django APIs for database access.  • Used Python to extract weekly hotel availability information from XML files.  • Used WebServices to get travel destination data and rates.  • Participated in requirement gathering and worked closely with the architect in designing and modeling.  • Used data types like dictionaries, tuples and object oriented concepts based inheritance features for making complex algorithms of networks.  • Worked with the design team for project structure.  • Performed Design, involved in code reviews and wrote unit tests in Python.  • Implemented the presentation layer with HTML, DHTML, Ajax, CSS and JavaScript.  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures on MYSQL.  • Developed shopping cart for Library and integrated web services to access the payment (E-commerce)    Environment: Python 2.6/2.7, JavaScript, Django Framework 1.3, CSS, SQL, MySQL, LAMP, JQuery, Adobe Dreamweaver, Apache web server, Apache Lucene. Education BS in Finance Louisiana Tech University