Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer Mays Landing, NJ • 6+ Years of experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Testing, Customization, Bug fixes, Enhancement, Support and Implementation of various stand-alone, client-server enterprise applications  • Experience of software development in Python and IDEs - sublime text, pycharm, emacs.  • Good experience in Django Framework.  • Having experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Expertise in Object-Oriented design and coding. Good knowledge of various Design Patterns and Data structures.  • Proficient in SQL databases MySQL, SqlServer,  • Hands-on experience in UNIX and Linux Kernels.  • Hands on experience in SVN, Git, JIRA, BugZilla.  • Good knowledge of web services with protocols SOAP, REST.  • Proven ability to analyze and understand complex systems, take them apart, and put them back together again, only better, and with fewer lines of code.  • Experienced in writing SQL Queries, Stored procedures, functions, tables, views, triggers.  • Used UNIX shell Scripts for automating batch programs.  • Strong skills in writing technical and functional documents defined by the business requirements.  • Strong understanding of Agile and Scrum Software Development Life Cycle Methodologies.  • Involved in the issue resolution and Root Cause Analysis.  • Developmental experience on Windows 7/8/10, UNIX platforms.  • Exceptional problem solving and sound decision making capabilities, recognized by associates for quality of data, alternative solutions, and confident, accurate, decision making.  • Excellent analytical and communication skills with ability to interact with individuals at all levels. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Python Developer American Airlines - Dallas, TX February 2015 to Present Responsibilities:  • Design and development of user interfaces and client displays using JavaScript, JSP, CSS and troubleshoot various issues in Python code.  • Develop REST API and integration content for cloud products with code samples in Python.  • Design of system using JSPs, Servlets.  • Worked on developing internal testing tools which were written in Python.  • Engineer RESTful APIs using Django REST Framework  • Manual testing of web applications, Integration testing.  • Creating test automation plan/scenarios/test cases.  • Ran code on mounted AWS, s3 server, OpenStack  • Participation in planning of testing process, including creating of a test plan, smoke/regression testing,  • Implemented dynamic page elements and form error validations using AngularJS.  • Developed server side application and server side validations using Django framework.  • Assisted in reduction of cost and optimization of supplier selection for the CRM Applications.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Designed and implemented MySql database server to drive the web-apps.  • Worked extensively on Multi-threading and Concurrency for implementing Batch Job Scheduling.  • Performed data modeling and schema design with MySql  • Responsible for incorporating multiple colleagues' code to make a cohesive whole  • Involved in environment, code installation as well as the SVN implementation.  • Used Linux profiler Valgrind for optimization of code.  • Wrote Ruby script to fetch files automatically.  • Created data access using SQL and PL/SQL stored procedures.  • Developed in Windows and going to deploy it in Linux server.  • Worked Responsible for development and enhancements of all the modules of rail docs and have them running the design team for project structure.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django, MySql, AWS, Testing, Bash, Java, Git, Windows and Linux Python Developer Redbox - Oakbrook Terrace, IL August 2013 to January 2015 Responsibilities:  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Designed and developed applications for communication using secured web services.  • Develop consumer based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML, Behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pair based programming.  • Used AngularJS as the development framework to build a single-page application.  • Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, read, update and delete.  • Resolved issues and improvised the process to ensure a stable and accurate solution.  • Wrote Python OO Design code for manufacturing quality, monitoring, logging, and debugging code optimization.  • Responsible for analysis, design, development and integration of Market Risk applications with FLEX/JAVA/ PYTHON.  • Worked on writing and as well as read data from csv and excel file formats.  • Used standard Python modules for development Managed our servers in development, testing, certification and production.  • Wrote Test cases for the given application.  • Managed requirements and tasks using JIRA.  • Used Git, managed github repositories and other users.  • Worked with the architect, developers on business and technical issues, helping in designing of the system; and testers to ensure all requirements are correctly translated.  • Involved in Data mapping, logical data modeling, created class diagrams and ER diagrams and used SQL queries to filter data within the Oracle database.  • Provided technical and business knowledge to clients.  • Held meetings with client and worked all alone for the entire project with limited help from the client.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django, PyUnit, JIRA, Apache, Git, UML, SQL, Uinux, Python Programmer McAfee - Bangalore, Karnataka June 2011 to July 2013 Responsibilities:  • Analysis and Design of application.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Worked with millions of database records on a daily basis, finding common errors and bad data patterns and fixing them.  • Exported/Imported data between different data sources using SQL Server Management Studio.  • Maintained program libraries, users' manuals and technical documentation.  • Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL package.  • Carried out various mathematical operations for calculation purpose using python libraries.  • Built various graphs for business decision making using Python matplotlib library.  • Fetched twitter feeds for certain important keyword using python-twitter library.  • Used Python library BeautifulSoup for webscrapping.ss.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  • Implement code in python to retrieve and manipulate data.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.    Environment: Python, Django, Beautiful soup, PyUnit, XML, VersioOne, Apache, Git, UML, SQL, Windows and Linux, Python Programmer MindTree - Bangalore, Karnataka June 2010 to May 2011 Responsibilities:  • Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Rewrite existing Java modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  • Used Selenium Library to write fully functioning test automation process that allowed the simulation of submitting different we requests from multiple browser to web application.  • Used Python and Java to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.    Environment: Python, Django, C++, Java, JQuery, MySQL, Oracle, Linux, Django, Eclipse, Shell Scripting, HTML, XHTML, SVN, CSS, AJAX, Bugzilla, JavaScript, Apache Web Server. Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Programming Languages Java, C++, Python, SQL  Framework Django, AngularJS  Version Control Tools Git, GitHub, SVN  Bug Tracking Tools Jira, BugZilla, VersionOne  Database MySql, SqlServer, Oracle DB  Operating System Unix, Linux, Windows  Software Development Lifecycle Agile Methodology, Scrum framework, Waterfall