Python Programmer <span class="hl">Python</span> Programmer Python Programmer - JPMorgan Chase Jersey City, NJ Work Experience Python Programmer JPMorgan Chase - Jersey City, NJ May 2018 to Present I am currently working on data analysis using pandas,Json,CSV,Excel.i am also doing UAT for internal  jpmc applications.and also making API call using request library to extract the data in Json format.    Python Programmer  JPMorgan Chase - jersy city,NJ  May 2018 to Present    Working on designing user stories, doing UAT on new enhancements.using pandas,Json,CSV,Excel  libraries to perform data analysis.makinh API calls to extract the data from our internal  applications.writing SQL queries to extract the data from the different databases. Python Developer Charter Communications - St. Louis, MO January 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Participated in the complete SDLC process.  • Written many programs to parse excel file and process many user data with data validations.  • Used Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Developed tools to automate some base tasks using Shell Scripting, Python.  • Designed and Developed User Interface using front-end technologies like HTML, CSS, JavaScript,  Bootstrap and JSON.  • Worked with Regular Expressions, URLLIB modules.  • Develop applications that use MongoDB database and PyMongo.  • Integrating multiple databases and data sources in to one system.  • Managed and trained peers on the installation of MYSQL and in writing queries to achieve  performance optimization.  • Created backend database T-SQL stored procedures and Jasper Reports.  • Wrote Python modules to extract/load asset data from the MySQL source database.  • Having experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based  environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Django, CSS and JavaScript.  • Created unit test/regression test framework for working/new code  • Using Git as version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Built development environment with JIRA, Stash/Git.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Participated in writing scripts for test automation  Environment: Python 2.7, Django, MySQL, Oracle 11.2, Linux, Django, Eclipse, Shell Scripting, HTML,  XHTML, Git, CSS, AJAX, Bug zilla, JavaScript, Apache Web Server, Apache spark. Python Developer Eliza Corporation - Danvers, MA January 2016 to December 2016 Responsibilities:  • Worked with a small, talented team of seasoned engineers and architects to design and implement  the foundation of our next generation streaming analytics platform.  • Transformed and maintained more than 10TB of health care data.  • Having experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based  environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Built development environment with JIRA, Stash/Git.  • Writing SQL scripts for selecting a data from Postgres servers  • Used Numpy for Numerical analysis for Insurance premium.  • Used several Python libraries like WXPython, numPY and matPlotLib.  • Developed object-oriented programming to enhance company product management.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data  manipulation and retrieval and Application integration with Restful APIs.  • Implementing AJAX methods inside Django and Contributed patches back to Django  • Integration of Python and Elastic Stack.  • Used PySpark to expose Spark API to Python.  • Used different type of transformations and actions in apache Spark.  • Used Spark cluster to manipulate RDD's (resilient distributed datasets).  • And also used concepts of RDD partitions.  • Connecting my SQL database through Sqoop  • Used MatPlotLib module for easy data visualization.  • Configured and deployed project using the Amazon EC2 on AWS.  • Build servers using AWS: Importing volumes, launching EC2, RDS, creating security groups, auto- scaling, load balancers (ELBs) in the defined virtual private connection.  • Migrating physical Linux/Windows servers to cloud (AWS) and testing  • Ensured high quality data collection and maintaining the integrity of the data.  • Used Python scripting for encryption and decryption of data..  • Utilized Python in the handling of all hits on Django, Redis, and other applications.  • Build all database mapping classes using Django models.  • Used Git for source control management and also for work coordination between our team members.    • Writing efficient, reusable and testable code and Performed automated testing, manual testing.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Resolved ongoing problems and accurately documented progress of a project.  Environment: Python 2.6, Scipy, Pandas, Bugzilla, GIT, MS SQL, Visual Basic, Linux, Eclipse, Java Script,  XML, JASPER, PL/SQL, Oracle 9i, Shell Scripting, HTML5/CSS, cloudera. Python Engineer Global Wireless Solutions - Dulles, VA April 2013 to June 2015 Responsibilities:  • Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Rewrite existing Java, C++ application in Python.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python.  • Created unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  • Made Django web based apps for online banking.  • Designed the architecture of the hardware environments and methodology of the code.  • Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Involved in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing  and Implementation and support.  • Used Django framework for application development.  • Created entire application using Python, Django, MySQL and Linux.  • Utilize PyUnit, the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications.  • Enhanced existing automated solutions, such as the Inquiry Tool for automated Asset Department  reporting and added new features and fixed bugs.  • Created database using MySQL, wrote several queries to extract/store data.  • Developed, tested and debugged software tools utilized by clients and internal customers.  • Coded test programs and evaluated existing engineering processes.  • Used SVN for version control.  • Designed and configured database and back end applications and programs.  • Performed research to explore and identify new technological platforms.  • Collaborated with internal teams to convert end user feedback into meaningful and improved  solutions.  Environment: Python 2.6, Django 1.4, Jenkins, MySQL, Windows, Linux, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Apache,  Jira, Linux, SVN. Software Engineer Nine Minds - Hyderabad, Telangana July 2011 to March 2013 Responsibilities:  • Advanced-level SQL coding/querying skills.  • Created SQL Data sets and data interfaces for reporting.  • Performed requirement gathering, High level design.  • Created UI screens using HTML/CSS, ASP.NET.  • Installed and setup SQL Server 2008 in the new server.  • Designing backend T-SQL Stored Procedures  • Designed and developed user interactive interfaces.  • Created database triggers to implement complex business rules and automatic background  processing.  • Created over 50 Jasper Reports and SSRS reports  • Creating SSIS Packages migration of data across different servers and Other Databases such as Oracle  • Used update strategy, lookups, stored procedures and filter.  • Studying the existing environment and accumulating the requirements by interacting with the clients  on various aspects.  • Identification of various Data Sources and Development Environment.  • Responsible for running and maintaining business processes on daily / weekly / monthly basis.  Environment: ASP.NET, MS SQL Server 2008, T-SQL, Jasper, SSRS, SQL Server DTS, MS Access, Windows  NT/2000, Visio Education Master's in Computer Science in Computer Science in Computer Science Rivier University December 2016 Skills DJANGO (4 years), PYTHON (4 years), DATABASE (6 years), LINUX (4 years), JIRA (4 years) Additional Information Skills    database, Django, JIRA, Linux, Python, AWS    Technical skills:  Python Libraries Pandas, Numpy, urlilib,matplotlib,UnitTest, JSON,CSV, XML, XLS  Database Systems Oracle 11g/10g/9i, DB2, MS-SQL Server, MySQL, MS-Access, PostgreSQL, NoSQL  (Mongo DB),SQLite3  Python Framework Django,flask  Languages Python, Java, HiveQL, Advanced PL/SQL, SQL  IDE's Splunk, Eclipse/Net Beans, SQL Developer, IntelliJ  Bug Tracking Tools Jira, Bugzilla, Rational Clear-quest  Web Technologies Java, J2EE, Servlets, JDBC, XML, JSON  Version Control Tools Git, Github, SVN, VSS  Software Development Lifecycle Agile Methodology, Scrum framework  Platforms Linux Red Hat/Ubuntu/Centos, Windows 10/8.1/7/XP