Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - Visa Inc ? Over 8 years of IT experience as a Web/Application Developer and coding with analytical programming using Python,DJango, Java.  ? Good experience in Python,DJango, Zope, Pyramid Framework and In-charge of legacy products (TruBid, TruGuard, TruReport).  ? Experienced in LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL and Python/PHP), WAMP (Windows, Apache, MySQL, Python/PHP) architecture and MVC struts.  ? Experience with PythonLibraries such as HTTPLib2, Urllib2, Beautiful Soup, Numpy, Scipy, Pickle, Pandas and Matplotlib.  ? Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, PHP, XML, CSS5, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, RabbitMQ, Jdk1.7, JQuery, Angular.JS and Knockout.JS.  ? Extensively used Python / Django Framework for developing backend of web applications.  ? Developed RESTfulAPI's using DjangoREST Framework, consumed via Restangular, a 3rd party Angular.JS service.  ? Experience in Implementation of MVC/ MVW architecture using Servlet, Django, and RESTful, SOAPwebservice and SOAPUI.  ? Developed web applications and RESTful web services and APIs using PythonFlask, Django and PHP.  ? Experience in Web development with Python and Django, SQL, ETL, Bash/Linux, Asynchronous task queues with Celery and RabbitMQ.  ? Experienced in using internal tools inPyDev, Pycharm, Brackets, Eclipse, JBuilder, JDeveloperandNetBeans for debugging and worked with SublimeText2, VimEditors for coding.  ? Expertise in developing applications using Java, J2EE Technologies (Servlets, JSP, Java Web Services, EJB, Struts), JDK, Java Applets, JDBC, XML, JavaScript, HTML, DHTML, CSS, SOAP.  ? Expertise in designing rich Graphic User Interface(GUI) and frontend layouts on the web using CSS, HTML, XML, DHTML, JavaScript, JSON, AJAX, XAML and JQuery, Bootstrap, Node.js, Angular.js, backbone.js, Require.js.  ? Experienced in SQL and PL/SQL programming, developing complex code units, database triggers and using the latest features to optimize performance (Global Temporary Tables, Inline views, Materialized views and Bulk Binds).  ? Experience in relational databases like Oracle [ ] MS SQL server, developing PL/SQL packages, Stored Procedures, Functions, Views, Indexes, Triggers, XML join, user defined data types and other complex queries.  ? Contributed in migrating data from Oracle database to ApacheCassandra (a NoSQL database) using SSTableloader.  ? In-depth understanding of MongoDBHAstrategies, including Replicasets and Sharding.  ? Knowledge of Hadoop Architecture and various components such as HDFS, MapReduce, HadoopGEN2Federation.  ? Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  ? Excellent Experience and knowledge in using XML, SOAP, web Service for inter operable software applications.  ? Automated the dataprocessing to automate data loading into the HadoopDistributedFileSystem  ? Proficient with Apache Web Server 2.0, MySQL 5, CVS, UNIX Shell Script, Firefox 3.5, IE 6 Browser Compatibility Issues, IIS and Linux.  ? Experience in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), which includes Requirements Specification, Design documents, Integration, Documentation and writing Test cases using various software engineering process ranging from Waterfall to Agile methodology.  ? Experience in project deployment using Jenkins/Heroku and using web services like Amazon Web Services (AWS) EC2 and AWS S3  ? Have knowledge in Installing and Configuring JBoss6.0 on Dev, Test, Training and Prod Environments and provided support.  ? Experience in Functional Services Testing, GUI Testing, Back-end Testing using SQL, Browser Compatibility Testing, Web Services Testing, System Testing and profound knowledge in Test plans, Test Cases and Test Scripts.  ? Experience in writing functional/unit Rspec tests using TDD/BDD built base test framework around mobile site.  ? Have knowledge in Installing and configuring puppet master for prod, staging and Test environment.  ? Good knowledge in Installation and Configuration of Oracle Identity Manager (OIM), Oracle Access Manager (OAM), WebLogic Server and SOA suite for deploying identity management stack.  ? Experienced in various types of testing such as Unit testing, Integration testing, Functional testing and User acceptance testing.  ? Expertise in creating Scrum stories, Agile Methodologies, Sprints experience in Python based environment, along with data analytics, Excel data extracts and data wrangling.  ? Software experience in Python, C/C++ on Linux, Windows, Cross-platform and embedded systems.  ? Extensive knowledge on automated batch programs by Linux/UNIX shell Scripts (such as file download, file Validation, assign permissions and workflow executions).  ? Experience with virtualization tools, used for supporting and hosting OIM Components, such as Oracle Virtual Box, VMware Workstation, Oracle VM Server and VMware vSphere.  ? Experienced in Versioncontrols using Git, SVN, CVS and GitHub.  ? Experience in working on different Operating Systems such as Windows Vista, Windows XP, Windows7, Linux, UNIX and OS X.  ? Excellent communication and interpersonal skills with ability to interact with individuals at all levels and can work as a part of team as well as independently. Work Experience Sr. Python Developer Visa Inc - Foster City, CA January 2017 to Present Project 1: Information Security Portal  Shift Left team's objective is to build a central application security services which integrates Security Assessment, SSDLC Code Scan, IAST, DAST and Finding Management    Project 2: SSDLC - Central Repository  Central Repository is a common system where the user to check on the security assessments on the application stores Security Findings and Reviews in order to access Python Developer Apple - Sunnyvale, CA 2016 to December 2016 Worked on design and development of Campaign Portal process multithreading re-design project PYTHON DEVELOPER RE-VOLV - San Francisco, CA February 2016 to July 2016 Worked on enhancement and maintenance of Re-volv People- Funded Renewable Energy application.  Responsibilities:  • Worked on presentation layer enhancement.  • Re-designed and developed the existing donor's module based on the client's requirement.  • Developed business logic using Python.  • Developed / modified presentation layer using HTML5 and JavaScript.  • Involved in client discussion to review on the application enhancement.  • Creating Unit test cases and reviewing with business analyst in order to cover regression and functionality.  • Worked with Quality Assurance team to analyze the root cause on an issue and fix it.  • Involved in analyzing existing functionality and proposing new flows in order to meet user requirements.  • Provided stand-alone implementation and production support.  Environment: Python, Django, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AngularJs, PostgreSQL, Linux, Bootstrap css, GIT PYTHON DEVELOPER CITI BANK - San Francisco, CA February 2013 to January 2016 Worked on development and maintenance portfolio for high net worth individuals and institutions. This portal helped the dedicated banker track and invests in various financial instruments like stocks, annuities, and fixed deposits. It also provides reports and comparison on investments.  Responsibilities:  ? Worked on high-level design and detail design.  ? Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python /Java.  ? Designed and developed data management system using MySQL and Django.  ? Created /Modified UI using HTML5/CSS3, Javascript, angular. JS, JQuery.  ? Developed business logic using Python, Java.  ? Developed and tuned customized complex PL/SQL procedures based on client requirement.  ? Tuned procedures to improve overall system performance.  ? Used SOAP and RESTful API for information extraction from various Banking applications.  ? Deployment and Build of various environments including Linux and UNIX  ? Installed and maintained web servers Tomcat and Apache HTTP Web servers in UNIX.  ? Wrote SQL scripts in Ab-initio for Data analysis and used Tivoli/Autosys for automation of data extraction/reporting.  ? Collaborate with Quality Analysis team to build and populated stage DB.  ? Involved in UAT coordination with business Users.  ? Involved in analyzing existing reports and converting into O2MS report server scripts.  ? Involved in coordinating performance testing of reports.  ? Prepared Librarian documents and Change Task/Number with ServiceNow for Production implementation.  ? Provided 24X7 stand-alone production support  ? Trained and documented initial deployment and Supported product stabilization/debug at the deployment site  Environment: Python, Django, Java, Oracle 11g, PL/SQL, MySQL, HTML5/CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, Angular.JS, Ab-Initio, Autosys, Linux, Apache, Unix/Linux. APPLICATION DEVELOPER SEMPRA ENERGY - Los Angeles, CA January 2012 to February 2013 Worked on development of Power usage prediction and distribution system. This system analyzes perk  Power consumption for Industry and residential and uses the grid optimization to ensure uninterrupted  Power distribution.  Responsibilities:  ? Gathered requirements from stakeholders; worked on design documents.  ? Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  ? Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  ? Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  ? Rewrite existing Python/Django/Java module to do predictive analysis of data.  ? Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  ? Used Restful APIs to access Power availability from different suppliers.  ? Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code  ? Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  ? Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  Environment: Python, Django, RESTful Web Services, Java, MySQL, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, Apache Web Server, and Linux. PYTHON DEVELOPER VONS - Los Angeles, CA February 2011 to December 2011 Worked on development and enhancement of Supplier Management Portal including Supplier registration, PO processing, EDI integration and supplier evaluation system    Responsibilities:  ? Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website.  ? Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  ? Developed supplier portal using Python and Django Web Framework.  ? Performed EDI integration using Python, Java and C++  ? Re-wrote Java J2EE application for power consumption and cost analysis.  ? Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  ? Generated property list for every application dynamically using python.  ? Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  ? Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code  ? Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  ? Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  Environment: Python, Java JDK 1.6, C++, Django 1.3, MySQL, Oracle 11g, HTML, JavaScript, Apache Web Server, Django, Red Hat Linux 6.x. Web Developer TCS - Chennai, Tamil Nadu July 2009 to January 2011 Worked on development of various projects on Banking, Manufacturing and SCM for clients of TCS.    Responsibility:  ? Performed systems analysis, gathered requirements and created design documents.  ? Developed a Client Management System to maintain client records and all customer related transactions.  ? Worked on Banking, SCM and Manufacturing(BOM) projects  ? Designed the database based on the analysis done which had almost 8-10 database tables.  ? Used SQL to define and manipulate database tables.  ? Created SQL queries and PL/SQL code for database layer.  ? Created Business logic using Java J2EE, C++ , Oracle  ? Wrote database PL/SQL stored procedures, triggers and procedures to provide backend security and data consistency.  ? Worked on Performance tuning of SQL and stored procedures.  ? Created Reports using Oracle Reports 9i to look the customer information according to given date and also to get the policy details such as policy number, expiration date and issuing date with the renewal date.  ? Perform routine database tuning and administration activities for several Oracle databases.  ? This software had a capability of storing pictures in form of TIFF format and all the proofs of insurance policy, which would link with the associated client record.  ? Database was later on migrated to Oracle 9i to enhance the software capabilities to new web enabled features such as remote access. SQL * Loader was used to transfer all records to new Oracle 9i database.  Environment: Java J2EE, HTML/CSS, Oracle 9i/8i, PL/SQL Developer, TOAD, RMAN, LINUX