Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - Creehan & Company Pittsburgh, PA • 7.5 years of software/IT experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Implementation, Testing, Maintenance and Documentation of web based and standalone applications in Banking, Finance, Health, Retail and Communication domains.  • Over 4.5 years of experience as Full Stack Developer with solid understanding of frontend and backend web development.  • Expertise in developing MVC based applications using Django, Flask and Cherrypy Frameworks.  • Experienced in designing rich Graphic User Interface and frontend layouts on the web using HTML5, XAML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery and AJAX.  • Expertise in developing responsive and mobile-first WebPages using Bootstrap Framework.  • Experience with HTTPLib2, Urllib2, Beautiful Soup, Numpy, Pickle, Pandas, Scipy and Matplotlib python libraries.  • Worked with Python to create scalable and robust common components which can be used across the application development.  • Worked on python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Performed Design, involved in code reviews and wrote unit tests in Python.  • Extensively used Python / Django Framework for developing backend of web applications  • Knowledge of ORM mapping using SQLACHEMY.  • Used AngularJS for DOM Manipulation, Filters, and Directives.  • Used Node.js as a proxy to interact with Rest services and also interacting with Database.  • Good Experience in Linux Bash scripting and following PEP Guidelines in Python.  • Performed mapping of JSON/XML formatted data with relational databases like MySQL, PostgreSQL, SQLite.  • Experienced with integration of MongoDB, and Cassandra databases.  • Used Elasticsearch for search/query of documents.  • Used Redis to share data between multiple processes.  • Documented company Restful API's using Swagger for internal and third part use.  • Hands on experience with Installation and configuration of Tomcat Web Server and Apache application Server.  • Experienced in monitoring, developing and transforming data using SQL Server Integration Service (SSIS) and SQL Server Analysis Service (SSAS).  • Profound knowledge in Test plans, Test Cases and Test Scripts and also experience in Functional Services Testing, GUI Testing, Back-end Testing using SQL, Browser Compatibility Testing, Web Services Testing, System Testing.  • Good Knowledge of web services using SOAP and REST protocols.  • Performed robust regression automation testing of multiple platforms using Selenium WebDriver and Robot framework.  • Experience in project deployment using Heroku/Jenkins and using web services like Amazon Web Services (AWS) EC2 and AWS S3.  • Well aware of SDLC, Waterfall, Test-driven development (TDD) and Agile/Scrum Methodologies.  • Proficiency in Object Oriented Programming (OOP) concepts.  • Hands on experience in using version control systems like Git, GitHub, CVS, and SVN.  • Experienced in designing and developing performance focused scalable complex data pipelines.  • Proficient in using internal tools in Pycharm, Brackets, PyDev, Netbeans and Eclipse for debugging and also worked with Sublime Text 2, Vim Editors for coding.  • Excellent skills in resolving hardware and software issues, malware removal, data recovery, disk management and installations of operating systems.  • Robust regression automation targeting multiple platforms using Selenium WebDriver. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Python Developer Creehan & Company October 2014 to Present Responsibilities:  • Responsible for analyzing various cross-functional, multi-platform applications systems enforcing Python best practices and provide guidance in making long term architectural design decisions.  • Coded model level validation using Python programming with emphasis in web security.  • Handled Business logics by backend Python programming to achieve optimal results.  • Worked on ElementTree XML API in python to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Developed views and templates in Django to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Configured Django to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Extensively used Python / Django Framework for developing backend of web applications.  • Used Django APIs for database access.  • Developed web services using Restful technology to support JSON and XML.  • Created new connections through applications for better access to MySQL database and involved in writing SQL & PLSQL - Stored procedures, functions, sequences, triggers, cursors, object types etc.  • Developed UI pages using HTML, DHTML, Java script, JQuery, JSP and tag libraries.  • Implemented AJAX to update necessary section of webpages and hence, avoiding the need for reloading the entire web page.  • Developed and tested many features in an Agile environment using Python, Django, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap and Rspec.  • Deployed the project into Heroku and also used GitHub version control system.  • Managed code with unit tests and GitHub.  • Developed Capistrano scripts to automate deployment on various environments.  • Test-driven development with Rspec, capybara, jasmine (for JavaScript), achieving 100% test coverage.  • Used GIT as Source control repositories with regular code reviews and pull/merge requests.  • Involved in writing Rake tasks for updating database.  • Implemented LDAP authentication using devise to integrate with an in-place web seal/TAM infrastructure.  • Implemented and enhanced CRUD operations for the applications using the MVC architecture of Django framework and also conducted code reviews.  • Used Design patterns efficiently to improve the code reusability.  Environment: Python 3.4, Django 1.7, HTML5, CSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, JQuery, JSP, UNIX, MVC architecture, AWS EC2, GitHub, JSON, XML, MYSQL, SQL, PLSQL, Heroku, Restful API, Rspec, Cucumber. Python Developer The Fresh Market - Greensboro, NC August 2013 to September 2014 Responsibilities:  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Created APIs, database Model and Views utilization Python in order to build responsive web page application.  • Used python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Redesigned existing task management systems using Python.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Implemented and enhanced CRUD operations for the applications using the MVC (Model View Controller) architecture of Django framework and Python conducting code reviews.  • Efficient database management, optimization and caching.  • Used petl package to extract, Transform and Load tables of data.  • Used Python, JQuery, JavaScript, AJAX at the front end.  • Created custom angular filter function for parsing the data to users in an appropriate way.  • Created multipage web application forms and nested forms for user to customize the templates and order a print preview by using AngularJS.  • Involved in design, implementation and modifying the Python code and MySQL database schema on-the back end.  • Worked with Amazon AWS concepts like EMR and EC2 web services which provide fast and efficient processing to upload and retrieve project history.  • Developed applications to assist non-technical users with configuring systems  • Search engine optimization by replacing existing database with MongoDB (NoSQL Database).  • Dealt with company-wide transition from Redis to Elasticsearch for caching and catalog browsing/searching  • Documented company Restful API's using Swagger for internal and third part use  • Database modeling and design. Involved in developing and implementation of the web application using Python/Django.  • Implemented Behavior Driven Development using Rspec and Cucumber to Perform testing.  • Develop user friendly and sophisticated graphical representation of the catalogue of items that would be configured for a piece of equipment.  • Utilized Object Oriented Programming in JavaScript and DOM structure to implement various functionalities.  • Used JIRA for bug tracking and issue tracking.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django (1.4/1.6), MSSQL, MongoDB, HTML, JavaScript, JSON, XML, JQuery, Linux WSDL, Restful, CSS, Postgre-SQL, Swagger, AngularJS, XHTML, MVC architecture. Python Developer Hummana - Lexington, KY December 2012 to August 2013 Responsibilities:  • Worked on frontend frameworks like Twitter Bootstrap for responsive webpages.  • Worked on server side applications with Django using Python programming  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard, created using Bootstrap, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed data validation & Data access components using Servlets and JavaBeans.  • Used python libraries like Beautiful Soup and matplotlib.  • Used Pandas for a data alignment and data manipulation.  • Utilized standard Python modules such as csv, robotparser, itertools and pickle for development.  • Worked on Python OpenStack APIs and used Numpy for Numerical analysis.  • Used Ajax and JQuery for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  • Developed Wrapper in Python for instantiating multi-threaded application.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Managed datasets using Pandas data frames and MySQL.  • Developed Restful API's using Python Flask and SQLAlchemy data models as well as ensured code quality by writing unit tests using Pytest  • Developed various algorithms for generating several data patterns.  • Used JIRA for bug tracking and issue tracking.  • Added several options to the application to choose particular algorithm for data and address generation.  • Used Agile Methodology and SCRUM Process.  • Maintained the versions using GIT and sending the release notes for each release.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.4, CSS, HTML, Bootstrap, JavaScript, AJAX, JQuery, Pandas, MYSQL, Restful API's, Linux, Servelts, JavaBeans, SCRUM, Agile, Heroku, JIRA, GIT. Python Developer Flagstar Bank - Troy, MI March 2012 to November 2012 Responsibilities:  • Developed Python scripts to read from Excel files, generate XML configuration files and also for generating IP access frequency lists in different data logs.  • Responsible for the design and development of different web-based applications based on clients requirements.  • Designed email marketing campaigns and also created responsive web forms that saved data into a database using Python / Django Framework.  • Developed applications using CherryPy, Flask ( Python frameworks )  • Deployed web applications to Google App Engine.  • Learnt to deploy projects using Jenkins.  • Utilized Pandas - python library for analyzing data and data structures.  • Managed large datasets using Pandas data frames and SQLite  • Learned about the Model-View-Controller (MVC) design pattern  • Learned new technical skills as required for the system like Django, CherryPy and Flask Frameworks.  • Performed front-end development for web initiatives to ensure usability, using HTML and CSS.  • Tested all completed work to ensure proper and error free functionality  • Enhanced quality, feel, and usability of consumer-facing website  • Wrote Use Case diagrams, Class diagrams Sequence Diagrams, and State Diagrams.  • Collaborated with a team of instructors and programmers to develop the curriculum and guidelines for workshops to teach the logic of programming.  • Designed manuals, workbooks, and other printed media for reference purpose.  • Created and ran custom SQL queries and stored procedures and also created an application to stored client phone calls and emails that were routed to various developers.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.2, Pandas, CherryPy, Flask, SQLite, Google App Engine, Jenkins, HTML, CSS. Python/Java Developer Morrison Management - Atlanta, GA October 2011 to February 2012 Responsibilities:  • Involved in preparing Design documents.  • Developed and maintained Python code required for the web application.  • Involved in writing out the Error Handling for different applications.  • Developed application in order to authorize for particular user.  • Implemented MVC architecture using Spring Framework.  • Worked on RabbitMq framework to receive messages from message queuing and printing on the screen.  • Developed UI related pages using XWT Framework by DOJO objects.  • Used Hibernate for Object Relational Mapping.  • Incorporated Log4j mechanism for proper logging of all stages of the process.  • Created unit testing of the modules created and run integration testing to test the end-to-end flow of the process developed.  • XML messages were used to communicate between web services that are written using SOAP and WSDL.  • Published methods as web methods using JAX-WS and used SOAPUI for testing these web services.  • Developed and deploy application in JBoss application server.  • Used Eclipse IDE for code Development along with GIT Hub for managing the code.  Environment: Python 2.7, RabbitMq, XWT, DOJO, Hibernate, unit testing, XML, WSDL, SOAP, JAX-WS, JBoss, GIT, IDE. Java Developer Linkwell TeleSystems Pvt Ltd - Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh July 2009 to July 2011 Responsibilities:  • Involved in the full software development life cycle of the project from analysis and design to testing and deployment.  • Extensively used core Java Collections, Generics, Exception Handling, and Design Patterns for functionality, such as portfolio summary and user information.  • Implemented various database connections using JDBC.  • Designed E-R graphs and relationship among different database tables, Creation tables with low coupling.  • Wrote PL/SQL Queries, stored procedures, triggers and prepared statements.  • Developed graphical user interface by using JSP, HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Implemented user input validations using JavaScript and JQuery.  • Developed test cases and performed unit test using JUnit Framework.  • Built code using Eclipse and deploy it using Apache Tomcat.  • Tested and fixed bugs and enhancing according to business needs.  • Installed and setup SQL Server 2008 in the new server.  • Used Agile Methodology for the development of the project.  Environment: Java, Html, CSS, JavaScript, JSP, JDBC, SQL, Junit. Perl Developer Linkwell TeleSystems Pvt Ltd - Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh July 2008 to June 2009 Responsibilities:  • Automated daily activities with Perl and also developed HTML reports with Perl CGI.  • Extracted data from Teradata server by creating perl modules  • Verified data files, transaction log, table spaces, configuration etc. Verify whether tables, views, stored procedures, triggers and other database objects created successfully.  • Verified schema, row counts, data reconciliation, data integrity, data correctness and validity  • Verified ETL Jobs, middleware, application functionality, Bin to MSX Utility testing, Migration Suite testing  • Verified performance meet user expectations/match or exceed existing system performance  • Automation for execution of tests in batch using Linux Shell Scripting (Bash) in python.  • Generated test data from test specifications using TESTIFY tool.  • Checked coding compliance using Assent tool. This tool helps in checking if code is as per Clients standard. It helps in streamlining the entire process.  • Performed defect analysis and Interaction with Business Users during UAT/SIT.  • Created HLD's, LLD's, (High Level & Low Level Designs) and Detailed Design Documents.  Environment: Perl, Linux shell scripting, Teradata, Autosys, Putty, Mercury Quality Center, Windows XP, UNIX. Education Bachelor of Technology in Electronics & Communication Engineering Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University - Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Programming Languages Java, C, Python, Perl.  Web Technologies HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, AngularJS, JQuery, AJAX.  Frameworks Django, Pyramid, Flask, AngularJS, Bootstrap, Struts, Swagger, Hibernate,RabbitMQ.  Application Servers Apache Tomcat, Web Sphere, Web Logic.  IDE's Development tools Sublime Text, PyCharm, NetBeans, Brackets, Eclipse and Vim  Operating Systems Windows XP/7.0/8/10, Fedora 16/18, ubuntu 14.04, and UNIX.  J2EE Technologies JDBC, Servlets and JDP  Issue Trackers Bugzilla, JIRA, JUnit, gdb.  Version Controls CVS, SVN, GIT, GitHub  Methodologies Agile, SCRUM and Waterfall.  Analytical Tools SWOT, Google Analytics, Tableau.  Database Oracle 8i/9i/10g, DB2, MongoDB, Cassandra, SQL server, MS Access, Sybase, MySQL 5.x, PostgreSQL  Protocols SOAP, TCP/IP, HTTP/HTTPS, REST.