Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer Cleveland, OH Having 6 years of IT experience, as strong background in object-oriented programming and Web/Application Developer. Proven ability to design, develop and deliver top-quality, working software on Python, Django.    CORE QUALIFICATTIONS    • Expertise with software development in Python and IDEs - Sublime text, PyCharm, Eclipse PyDev.  • Web application development using Python 3.x/2.7, Django 1.9, Flask, MongoDB, JavaScript, AJAX, HTML, XML and template languages.  • Deployed production site using Apache 2.2 with mod Python.  • Started developing with Django 1.3 beta and currently developing with Django 1.9.  • Very strong experience in writing API's and Web Services in Python.  • Expertise in writing Stored Procedures, Cursors, Functions and performed data analysis using PL/SQL.  • Versatile with Version control systems including Git, SVC, CVS, and SourceSafe.  • Implemented dashboard using Django, Bootstrap, JQuery, AJAX tools.  • Created initial website prototype from a Django skeleton, building out, page views, templates, and CSS layouts for the complete site within the Django framework.  • Developed a simple model to test graph rendering through a rapid prototyping process. Outputting relational data as simple node/ link JSON document.  • Automated AWS S3 data upload / download using python scripts.  • Experienced with ORM programming technique converting data between incompatible type systems in OOP languages.  • Familiar with REST and AWS (Amazon Web services) in Redshift, EMR for improved efficiency of storage and Proficient in SQL databases MS SQL, MySQL, Oracle and no-SQL databases MongoDB, Cassandra.  • Deep understanding of HTTP and RESTful architecture: Apache, uWSGI.  • Familiar with UNIX / Linux internals, basic cryptography & security.  • Database development with Python SQL, MySQL, PostgreSQL, MongoDB.  • Knowledge of Test Driven Development (TDD).  • Strongly follow PEP-8 coding standard and test a program by running it across test cases to ensure validity and effectiveness of code using PyChecker and PyLint.  • Supported Integration and QA testing.  • Am extremely productive working on my own, and even more as part of team.    Computer Languages  Python, Java, UNIX / Linux Shell Scripting (Bash), C, C++, J2EE, XML, JavaScript, JQuery, HTML, HTML5, CSS, CSS3.    Tools and Systems  Sublime, PyCharm, NetBeans, Eclipse-PyDev, Django 1.9/1.8, FLASK, Pyramid, Spring MVC, Hiberate, Web Services, REST, MongoDB, PostgreSQL, SQLite, Oracle, MySQL, AWS, Git, Apache Subversion, CVS, Maven, SSHD, AJAX, Visual Studio, Terminal, Notepad++, JSON, Microsoft Office, Waterfall, Jira (Agile), Bug, Junit, PyLint, PyChecker.    Platforms  Microsoft Windows, OS X, Ubuntu Linux, Debian Linux, Windows Server    GitHub link: https://github.com/nbshah101 Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Cleveland Clinic - Cleveland, OH August 2015 to Present CLEVEVAND CLINICS, an academic medical center, provides clinical and hospital care and is a leader in research, education and health information.  Descriptions: Working on internal Employee Work Management System application to keep track on the work efficiency of the employees by mapping the number of files they are serving. Application helps to manage the flow of work load properly which in turn helps the organization in distribution of staff. It also track the pending files and disbursement ratio. Participating in requirement gathering and analysis phase of the project in documenting the business requirements by conducting workshops/meetings.  RESPONSBLITIES    • Participating in requirement gathering and analysis phase of the project in documenting the business requirements by conducting workshops/meetings with various business users. Used Agile Methodology and SCRUM Process.  • Wrote several scripts that bug tracked day to day operations, a site to show all errors from every site as a dashboard, and maintained notifications to the other IT Department for any errors that occurred.  • All applications were developed with Python, Django, and PostgreSQL using JIRA (Agile) methodology.  • Added retry mechanism to API calls using jQuery deferred object and accumulative recursion.  • Design and documentation of RESTful APIs for collection and retrieval of high volume IOT telemetry data.  • Refactored and extended large existing Django/ Python code base by maintaining PEP-8 code standards and fix the bugs.  • Implemented a selectable template structure in Django making it possible to change the HTML layout and design based on site URL and /or domain.  • Used several python libraries like wxPython, numPY, Jython and matPlotLib.  • Used Plotly to create python powered dashboard.  • Actively Working on:  • Comprehensive monitoring architecture for Lodging Operations support application.  • Development and maintenance of Lodging Operations support application.  • Significantly improved report generation efficiency by caching, reusing and improve the security level of Data.  • Developed MVC prototype replacement of current product with Django:  • Improved page load time by 60 times.  • Implemented RESTful API which returns data from PostgreSQL in JSON format.  • Able to scrape data from external sources and put them into a central database.  • Expertise in Python scripts to phase XML documents and load the data in database.  • Design and developed data management system using PostgreSQL.  • Used Atlassian JIRA for tracking and updating the project issues.  • Web service integration: customized & integrated med-fusion secure practice portal's Secure Message Web.  • Integrated the user-facing elements developed by front-end developer with server side logic.  • Evangelized the use of web services as a way to implement application integrations.  • Designed and implemented web application server.    Environment  Agile, CSS3, HTML5, HTTP, JSON, PostgreSQL, MySQL, REST, Shell scripting, Sublime, PyCharm, SQLite, Web Services, XHTML, XML. Developer JLL - Chicago, IL June 2014 to July 2015 Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated, is a leading professional services and investment management company specialization in real estate services to client seeking increased value by owing, occupying and investing in real estate. The Company's real estate services include agency leasing, capital markets, tenant representation, real estate investment banking / merchant banking, property management, corporate finance, facilities management / outsourcing, hotel advisory, project and development management / construction, energy and sustainability services, valuations, value recovery and receivership services, consulting and investment management.    Descriptions: Worked on project to optimize the Supply Chain Management System. The application provides workforce insight to every department. Ensure product and supply chain readiness which in turn processes speed with a quick view of pending and released changes and items affected. It provides organizational clarity on product data and processes to increase productivity. Secure access to product data with configurable roles and privileges.    RESPONSBLITIES  • Worked on high level design and detail design Developed GUI using Python, MySQL, HTML, AJAX, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Built application logic using Python, Django and MySQL.  • Implemented database access using Django ORM.  • Good in process, validate, parse, and extract data from .xml file  • Used Restful web services for integration with many monitoring devices.  • Developed REST/HTTP APIs for exposing geospatial applications.  • Designed Forms, Modules, Views, and Templates using Django.  • Contributed to development of security policies and processes.  • Designed and implemented the virtual environment.  • Installed/configured/maintained Apache servers on all machines (production server and development servers).  • Installed/configured/maintained MySQL database and MongoDB database.  • Testing done by using JUnit.  • Performed Unit/System test using pyTEST.  • Conducted numerous enhancements for the system and bug-fixing tasks (C/C++, SQL scripts, UNIX Shell).  • Created a JSON update mechanism for pushing data model updates to client.  • Monitored database changes, proposed modification for subsystem-related tables, fields or indexes and developed scripts (SQL, SQL scripts, UNIX shell scripts)    Environment  REST, CSS, VMware, Python, Django, AJAX, HTML, HTTP, JSON, JUnit, MySQL, pyTEST, UNIX Shell scripting, Sublime, Web Services, XHTML, Oracle. Python Developer Blizzard Entertainment - Los Angeles, CA January 2013 to May 2014 Blizzard Entertainment, Inc. is an American video game developer and publisher. The company originally concentrated primarily on the creation of game ports for other studios before beginning development of their own software in 1993 with the development of games like Rock n' Roll Racing and The Lost Vikings.  Descriptions: Worked on project to unlock the value of ecosystem with social collaboration capabilities. The application allows to discover, follow and connect to enable knowledge sharing across the enterprise. It also allows advanced innovative thinking with real time discussions.    RESPONSBLITIES  • Develop and maintain standard operating procedures to reflect day-to-day security operations.  • Created script in Python for calling REST APIs.  • REST API development via Django REST Framework.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Overrode Django Rest Framework internals to allow for more dynamic routing.  • Actively hunting for and dissecting previously unidentified threats in the environment.  • Collaborate full stack project on Waterfall methodology.  • Designed and documented REST/HTTP APIs, including JSON data formats and API versioning strategy. Used Git to collaborate with other developers.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL with complete data integrity.    Environment  AJAX, REST, HTTP, JSON, Linux Shell scripting, MySQL, Sublime, XHTML, PostgreSQL, Web Services, Java-Script. Software Developer MEHTECH SOLUTIONS August 2010 to December 2012 Descriptions: The project was to build a web application to facilitate ecommerce transactions for construction equipment manufacturers and rental industries and implements the credit card security for the transaction. The project provides or participating in online marketplaces, which process third party business -to-consumer or consumer-to-consumer sales,    RESPONSBILITIES  • Team up and communicate with the players on the progress milestones during the daily stand up meetings.  • Contribute in scrum meetings and sizing meeting for the sprint cycles.  • Industrial and user facing front pages using CSS, JavaScript.  • Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  • Good hands on experience in data warehouse developer/ database engineer for high-volume data processing.  • Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website.  • Worked on HTML and JavaScript with integration of UI for developing grids, charts and schedulers.  • Implemented to making browser compatibility.  • Developed modules in the application using Java/J2EE Analyzed the Design of the modules.    Environment  Java/J2EE, AJAX, HTML, CSS, Web API'S, JavaScript, JSON, SQL Server. Links https://github.com/nbshah101