Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Xxxxxxx, Texas Atlanta, GA • Around 5 Years of experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Bug fixes, Support and Implementation of various stand-alone, client-server enterprise applications.  • 5+ years of experience of software development in Python (libraries used: Beautiful Soup, numpy, scipy, Pandas, matplotlib, networkx, urllib2, MySQLdb for database connectivity)  • 1+ years hands-on experience in Cassandra big data modeling methodologies.  • Designed SQL to Cassandra automation tool to migrate SQL schema and data to Cassandra cluster.  • Familiar with SSL RSA handshaking protocol.  • Deployed both SQL and Cassandra on AWS.  • Oracle SQL certified Expert.  • Extensive knowledge and experience in Data analysis using SAS/SQL.  • Experience in SAS/STAT with linear and logistic regression.  • Proven skills in SAS BASE and SAS MACRO fulfilling on demand business needs.  • Proficient in SQL databases, MySQL, Oracle, Cassandra.  • Hands-on experience in Cassandra java drivers and Cassandra python drivers.  • SQL and PL/SQL programming, developing complex code units, database triggers and using the latest features to optimize performance like Bulk Binds, Inline views, Global Temporary Tables.  • Good experience in Flask, Django, Zope, Pyramid Framework.  • Expertise in Object-Oriented design and coding. Good knowledge of various Design Patterns and UML.  • Hands-on experience in Unix and Linux Kernels.  • Hands on experience in SVN, Git, JIRA, Bugzilla.  • Good knowledge of web services with protocols SOAP, REST.  • Good knowledge of server Apache Tomcat, Web logic.  • Experience in developing web-based applications using Python 2.7/2.6, Django 1.4/1.3, Flask, XML, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, JQuery and JSON.  • Experienced in various types of testing such as Unit testing, Integration testing, User acceptance testing, Functional testing.  • Proven ability to analyze and understand complex systems and optimize them.  • Experienced in writing SQL Queries, Stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, triggers.  • Extensively used UNIX shell Scripts for automating batch programs.  • Strong skills in writing technical and functional documents defined by the business requirements.  • Good knowledge in various stages of SDLC (Software Development Life Cycle), Software Testing Life Cycle (STLC) and QA methodologies from project definition to post-deployment documentation.  • Strong understanding of Agile and Scrum Software Development Life Cycle Methodologies, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Involved in the issue resolution and Root Cause Analysis.  • Experience in UNIX shell scripting (file validations, file downloads, workflow executions).  • Developmental experience on Windows NT/95/98/2000/XP, UNIX and Linux platforms.  • Exceptional problem solving and sound decision-making capabilities, recognized by associates for quality of data, alternative solutions, and confident, accurate, decision making.  • Excellent analytical and communication skills with ability to interact with individuals at all levels. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Python Developer Xxxxxxx, Texas November 2017 to Present Client Description:    xxxxxxx, United States that operates a diverse array of network infrastructure. It also offers a range of security services, including managed DNS, distributed denial-of-service-attack (DDoS) attack mitigation and cyber-threat reporting.    Responsibilities:  • Worked on developing cli tools for automating networking infrastructure.  • Written scripts for ios and junos networking devices.  • Created dashboards for analyzing the network traffic for load balancers.  • Participated in the complete SDLC process.  • Wrote Python scripts to access data from the MySQL source database.  • Designed and implemented a dedicated MYSQL database server to drive the webapps and report on daily progress.  • Implemented AWS API Gateway.  • Configured CloudFormation, AWS IOT and, IAM.  • Developed S3 and CloudWatch clients for data operations.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Flask to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Used Flask framework for application development.  • Created entire application using Python, Flask, MySQL and Linux.  • Utilized PyUnit, the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications.  • Implemented Data Access Layer to access AWS DynamoDB data.  • Created database using MySQL, wrote several queries to extract/store data.  • Designed and configured database and back end applications and programs.  • Addressed and resolved ongoing problems and accurately documented progress of a project.  • Analyzed NoSQL databases and evaluated pro and cons.  • Converted sample SQL database model to NoSQL big data model.  • Used Chen's Notations and Chebotko diagrams for NoSQL models.  • Used Cassandra cluster manager to create multi node cluster environment.  • Manipulated python date time formats to ease the data tunneling from CSV to CQLSH.    Environment: Amazon Web Services (AWS), Amazon S3, CloudWatch, Python 3.6, Flask, Jenkins, Grafana/Graphite, MySQL, Windows, Linux, Apache, Jira, Linux, Git. Chen's notation - Chebotko diagrams, Cassandra, cqlsh. Python Programmer Pittsburgh, PA August 2016 to October 2017 Client Description:    Xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx is the rail equipment division of the.  It is one of the world's largest companies in the rail vehicle and equipment manufacturing and servicing industry. produces a wide range of products including passenger rail vehicles, locomotives, bogies, propulsion and controls.    Responsibilities:  • Followed Agile Methodologies to manage full life-cycle development of the project.  • Writing backend programming in Python and used the Django Framework to develop the application.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery and Angular JS.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Designed and developed communication between client and server using Secured Web services.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Java, Bootstrap, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Used JavaScript and XML to update a portion of a webpage.  • Developed consumer based features and applications using Python and Django in test driven Development.  • Performed Unit testing, Integration Testing, GUI and web application testing using Rspec.  • Worked on Jenkins continuous integration tool for deployment of project.  • Worked on changes to open stack and AWS to accommodate large-scale data center deployment.  • Used Amazon Cloud EC2 along with Amazon SQS to upload and retrieve project history.  • Experience in project deployment using Heroku/Jenkins and using web services like Amazon Web Services (AWS) EC2, AWS S3, Auto scaling, Cloud watch and SNS.  • Worked on front end frame works like CSS, Bootstrap for development of Web application.  • Worked in MySQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization.  • Deployed the project into Jenkins using GIT version control system.  • Learned to index and search/query large number of documents inside Elastic search.  • Creating invitation flow for customers to use the client portal for monitoring applications.  • Created the environment specific settings for a new deployment and update the deployment specific conditional checks in code base to use specific checks.  • Used advanced packages like Mock, patch and beautiful soup (b4) to perform unit testing.  • Taken part in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Improved code reuse and performance by making effective use of various design patterns.    Environment: Python 3.4, 2.7, Java 1.7, Django 1.9/1.7, HTML5, CSS3, XML, JSON, MySQL, JavaScript, Angular JS, Backbone JS, JQuery, CSS Bootstrap, Puppet, Postgre SQL, Amazon s3, AWS, Jenkins, Mongo DB, Elastic search, T-SQL, Beautiful soup, TFS, nose, JavaScript, Eclipse, Git, GitHub, Linux. Python Programmer Detroit, MI October 2015 to July 2016 Responsibilities:  • Design, develop, test, deploy and maintenance of a website.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Modified existing Python modules to deliver desired data.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Worked extensively with Bootstrap, JavaScript, and jQuery to optimize the user experience.  • Used Selenium Library to write fully functioning test automation process simulating requests from multiple sources.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile).  • Built development environment with JIRA, Git/stashing.  • Developed modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Involved in entire lifecycle of the project.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django, Java, JQuery, MySQL, Oracle 11.2, Linux, Django, Eclipse, Shell Scripting, HTML, XHTML, SVN, CSS, AJAX, Bugzilla, JavaScript, Apache Web Server. Developer Hyderabad, Telangana June 2013 to July 2015 Responsibilities:  • Developed application using Python, Java.  • Used Java Server Pages for content layout and presentation.  • Created Data layer in MYSQL and Oracle Database.  • Extracted and loaded data using Python scripts and PL/SQL packages  • Debugging and testing of the applications & provided maintenance support in production environment.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using python.  • Creating test frameworks for new code.  • Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Responsible for debugging the web application.    Environment: Python, Django, Java, J2EE, AJAX, JavaScript, MySQL, PL/SQL, JDBC, Oracle 9i, Unix Shell Scripting, Red Hat Linux, Apache. Skills DATABASE (4 years), LINUX (4 years), MYSQL (4 years), PYTHON (4 years), DJANGO (4 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  • Primary Languages: Python 3.5 & 2.7, SQL, Java, HTML, CSS, XML, Json, JavaScript, JQuery.  • Python Libraries: Cling, getpass, pdb, Pandas, Numpy, UnitTest, matplotlib, networkx.  • Python Framework: Django, Flask  • Version Control Tools: Git, Github, SVN, VSS  • Bug Tracking Tools: Jira, Bugzilla, Rational Clear-quest  • Database: Cassandra, Sqlite3, MongoDB.  • Operating System: Linux, Unix, Windows.  • RDBMS: Oracle 11G/10G/9i/8i, SQL Server, DB2, MS Access, MySQL  • SDLC Agile Methodology, Scrum framework  • SAS: SAS/BASE, SAS/MACRO, SAS/SQL, SAS/ACCESS, SAS/STAT, SAS/GRAPH, SAS/INFORMATIONS DELIVERY PORTAL