Sr. Python Developer Sr.<span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - Capital-One Plano, TX * Around 9 years of experience as a Python Developer, proficient coder in multiple languages and environments including Python, REST Api, AWS, C, C++ and SQL.  * Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database and developed web-based applications using Python, CSS and HTML.  * Worked on applications and developed them with XML, JSON, XSL (PHP, Django, Python, Rails).  * Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  * Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  * Cleaned data and processed third party spending data into maneuverable deliverables within specific formats with Excel macros and python libraries.  * Experienced in working with various Python IDE's using PyCharm, PyScripter, Spyder, PyStudio and PyDev.  * Good experience of software development in Python and IDEs: pycharm, sublime text, Jupyter Notebook.  * Experienced in web applications development using Django/ Python using HTML/CSS for server-side rendered applications.  * Hands on experience working in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, My SQL, and Python/PHP) Architecture.  * Worked on Anaconda Python Environment.  * Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  * Experience in implementing python alongside using various libraries such as mat plotlib for charts and graphs, MySQL db for database connectivity, python-twitter, PySide, Pickle, Pandas data frame, network, urllib2.  * Experienced in using python libraries like BeautifulSoup, NumPy, SciPy, matplotlib, Python-twitter, NetworkX, urllib2, MySQLdb for database connectivity and IDEs - Sublime Text, Spyder, PyCharm.  * Experienced in Requirement gathering, Use Case development, Business Process flow, Business Process Modeling.  * Extensively used UML to develop various use cases, class diagram and sequence diagrams.  * Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, AngularJS, Bootstrap, JSON, XML.  * Exceptionally solid background in composing API's along with Web Services over Python.  * Experience in using Adobe Flash, SVN, Eclipse, JIRA, Github and CVS.  * Experience working knowledge in UNIX and Linux shell environments using command line utilities.  * Experience with Unit Testing/ Test Driven Development(TDD), Load Testing and Integration Testing.  * Experienced in version control systems using CVS, SVN and Git/Github and issue tracking tools like Jira and BugZilla.  * Experienced in writing SQL Queries, Stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, triggers.  * Experience in working with Python ORM Libraries including Django ORM, SQLAlchemy.  * Experience in building frameworks and automating complex workflows using Python for Test Automation.  * Experience in implementing with server side technologies with restful API and MVC design patterns with node JS and Django framework.  * Hands on experience in using NOSQL libraries like MongoDB, Cassandra, Redis and relational databases like Oracle, SQLite, PostgreSQL and MYSQL databases.  * Good Knowledge in Amazon AWS concepts like EMR and EC2 web services which provides fast and efficient processing of Big Data.  * Proficiency with the application servers like WebSphere, WebLogic, JBOSS and Tomcat.  * Proficient in Object oriented design experience, with extensive experience of Python-C/C++ binding using Boost Python and Python C types.  * Experiences with File Handling and SSH (Secure Shell).  * Excellent Debugging, Problem Solving, Optimization and Testing Skills using GitLab  * Experience in Python Development and Scientific Programing, and using Numpy and Pandas in Python for Data Manipulation.  * Experience in using Scikit-Learn and Statsmodels in Python for Machine Learning and Data Mining.  * Use of NLTK, OpenNLP & StanfordNLP for Natural Language Processing and sentiment analysis.  * Experience with SQL Server Management Studio, SQL Developer, Toad and MySQL GUI Tool. Work Experience Sr. Python Developer Capital-One - Plano, TX February 2018 to Present Capital One in Plano Texas second main office handling data source and their partner information in US based in Texas(Plano) and its principal work on data analytics and development. Work has been assigned on multiple project with this company based on experience and client requirement to fulfill in given time. As most of company moving toward cloud technology, my work is mostly migration team to automate system from On-perm(EDE) to SFG (AWS Cloud) with latest technology. Also, part of internal web portal development using python powerful tool like pandas, Djanog and Flask and Machine learning.    * Develop and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Java, Bootstrap, CSS, JavaScript and Jquery.  * Develop code to develop and transfer existing Partner on On-Perm (Data Center) to SFG (AWS Cloud)  * Implemented and modified various SQL queries and Functions, Cursors and Triggers as per the client requirements.  * Creating reports and graph using MatplotLib package with Scientific computing stack Pandas Data framework.  * Improving UI page using (Angular js, Boot-Strap and JavaScript query) and Database with feasible option in portal continuously accordingly requirement and keep testing using Unit Test modules in Python.  * Provide technical assistance for maintenance, integration and testing of software solutions during development, QA environment.  * Develop Test Automation Script for deployment of AWS and Microsoft Sterling Web API, using python package, puppet configuration tool to update and check AWS. Compare the existing data in On-perm(EDE) and create Partner and Routes for difference type of partner in SFG (AWS Cloud).  * Create and modify unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  * Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  * Implemented and modified various SQL queries and Functions, Cursors and Triggers as per the client requirements.  * Modify existing and created python script for Encryption and Decryption according client's requirements.  * Partner's and Routes data using Python Django forms and implemented test case using Pytest.  * Developed the web application using the TestDriven methodology and designed the unit tests using Python Unit test framework.  * Create Docker container with existing file, modify with changes and send it back for deployment  * Aggregated and Manipulate data using PYTHON PANDAS stored in AWS RDS SQL database and displayed in Dashboard.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django, HTML5/CSS, PostgreSQL, AWS, AWS-RDS (Aurora, Oracle), MySQL, JavaScript, Jupyter Notebook, VIM, Pycharm, Shell Scripting, Angular.JS, JIRA. Sr. Python Developer Santander Bank - Boston, MA October 2016 to December 2017 Santander Bank, N. A., formerly Sovereign Bank, is a wholly owned subsidiary of Spanish Santander Group. It is based in Boston and its principal market is the northeastern United States. It has $54.7 billion in deposits, operates about 650 retail banking offices and over 2,000 ATMs, and employs approximately 9,800 people. It offers an array of financial services and products including retail banking, mortgages, corporate banking, cash management, credit card, capital markets, trust and wealth management, and insurance. Santander Global Banking and Markets performs real-time news analytics and performs sentiment analysis and sector classification. The corresponding set of market commodities relevant to the classified subject is subjected to machine learning to perform predictive analytics on volatility on trading volume, price variance, correlation matrics and VaR calculations to produce risk matrix.    Responsibilities  * Automate different workflows, which are initiated manually with Python scripts and Unix shell scripting.  * Create, activate and program in Anaconda environment.  * Use Python unit and functional testing modules such as unit test, unittest2, mock, and custom frameworks in-line with Agile Software Development methodologies.  * Develop Sqoop scripts to handle change data capture for processing incremental records between new arrived and existing data in RDBMS tables.  * Installed Hadoop, Map Reduce, HDFS, AWS and developed multiple MapReduce jobs in PIG and Hive for data cleaning and pre-processing.  * Manage datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL, queried MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package to retrieve information.  * Involved in the Web/Application development using Python 3.5, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JSON and Jquery.  * Develop and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Java, Bootstrap, CSS, JavaScript and Jquery.  * Generated Python Django forms to record data of online users and used PyTest for writing test cases.  * Implemented and modified various SQL queries and Functions, Cursors and Triggers as per the client requirements.  * Clean data and processed third party spending data into maneuverable deliverables within specific format with Excel macros and python libraries such as NumPy, SQLAlchemy and matplotlib.  * Used Pandas as API to put the data as time series and tabular format for manipulation and retrieval of data.  * Helped with the migration from the old server to Jira database (Matching Fields) with Python scripts for transferring and verifying the information.  * Analyze Format data using Machine Learning algorithm by Python Scikit-Learn.  * Experience in python, Jupyter, Scientific computing stack (numpy, scipy, pandasand matplotlib).  * Perform troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  * Write Python scripts to parse JSON documents and load the data in database.  * Generating various capacity planning reports (graphical) using Python packages like Numpy, matplotlib.  * Analyzing various logs that are been generating and predicting/forecasting next occurrence of event with various Python libraries.  * Developed single page application by using Angular JS backed by MongoDB and NodeJS.  * Design and maintain databases using Python and developed Python based API (RESTful Web Service) using Flask, SQL Alchemy and PostgreSQL.  * Manage code versioning with GitHub, Bit Bucket and deployment to staging and production servers and implement MVC architecture in developing the web application with the help of Django framework.  * Use Celery as task queue and RabbitMQ, Redis as messaging broker to execute asynchronous tasks.  * Design and manage API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture.  * Develop remote integration with third party platforms by using RESTful web services and Successful implementation of Apache Spark and Spark Streaming applications for large scale data.  * Built various graphs for business decision making using Python mat plotlib library.  * Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  * Export Test case Scripts and modified the selenium scripts and executed in Selenium environment.  * Wrote UNIX shell scripting for automation.  * Developed views and templates with Django view controller and template Language to create a user-friendly website interface.  * Create Individual Docker file for deployment for DevOps Teams whenever appropriate changes made.  * Used JavaScript and JSON to update a portion of a webpage.  * Develop consumer based features using Django, HTML and Test Driven Development (TDD).  * Developed Python web services for processing JSON and interfacing with the Data layer.  * Increased the speed of pre-existing search indexes through Django ORM optimizations.  * Developed module to build Django ORM queries that can pre-load data to greatly reduce the number of databases queries needed to retrieve the same amount of data.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django, HTML5/CSS, PostgreSQL, MS SQL Server 2013, MySQL, JavaScript, Jupyter Notebook, VIM, Pycharm, Shell Scripting, Angular.JS, JIRA. Python Developer State of Indiana - Indianapolis, IN January 2015 to September 2016 Indiana Department of Health administers healthcare programs, such as Medicare, Medicaid, Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP), and these three major national healthcare programs benefit millions of Americans.    Responsibilities:  * Worked in comprehending and examining the client's business requirements.  * Used Django frameworks and Python to build dynamic webpages.  * Developed tools for monitoring and notification using Python.  * Enhanced the application by using HTML and Java script for design and development.  * Used data structures like directories, tuples, object oriented class based inheritance features for making complex algorithms of networks.  * Created PHP/MySQL back-end for data entry from Flash and worked in tandem with the Flash developer to obtain the correct data through query string  * Involved in designing database Model, API's, Views using python to build an interactive web based solution.  * Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users.  * Implemented Data tables to add, delete, update and display patient records and policy information using PyQt.  * Implemented a module to connect and view the status of an Apache Cassandra instance using python.  * Developed MVC prototype replacement of current product with Django.  * Improved the Data Security and generated report efficiently by caching and reusing data.  * Created UI using JavaScript and HTML5/CSS3.  * Managed datasets using Panda data frames and MYSQL. Queried the database queries using Python-MySQL connector and retrieved information using MySQLdb.  * Recorded the online users' data using Python Django forms and implemented test case using Pytest.  * Developed the application using the TestDriven methodology and designed the unit tests using Python Unit test framework.  * Created web application prototype using jQuery and Angular JS.  * Deployed the project into Heroku using GIT version control system,  * Maintained and Updated the application in accordance to the clientele's requirement    Environment: Python 3, Django 1.6, Tableau 8.2, Beautiful soup, HTML5, CSS/CSS3, Bootstrap, XML, JSON, JavaScript, JQuery, Angular JS, Backbone JS, Restful Web services, Apache spark, Linux, Git, Amazon s3, Jenkins, MySQL, Mongo DB, T-SQL, Eclipse. Python Developer Qualcomm - San Diego, CA October 2013 to December 2014 Qualcomm is an American multinational semiconductor and telecommunications equipment company that designs and markets wireless telecommunications products and services. This position was about creating a web application for internal use. It was mainly designed for providing support to their marketing department. The web application provides functionalities in sales track and market insights in terms of real-time social media sentiment analysis, sales and consumer statistics, sales forecasting and consumer segmentation.    Responsibilities:  * Expanded website functionality, using Flask framework in Python to control the web application logic  * Built automation script using Qualcomm API and Python BeatifulSoup to scrape data from social network and other websites using Python.  * Exchanged data with SQL database and NoSQL database such as MongoDB  * Conducted Big Data analytics using Hadoop MapReduce.  * Generated data-driven reports, data visualization using Tableau  * Designed front end and backend of the application using Python on Django Web Framework.  * Used HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON designed and developed the user interface of the website.  * Developed views and templates with Django view controller and template Language to create a user-friendly website interface.  * Used JavaScript and JSON to update a portion of a webpage.  * Develop consumer based features using Django, HTML and Test Driven Development (TDD).  * Developed Python web services for processing JSON and interfacing with the Data layer.  * Used GIT version control and deployed project to Heroku.  * Increased the speed of pre-existing search indexes through DJango ORM optimizations.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django, Hadoop, SQL, SAS, Excel, MongoDB, Flask, Tableau, JavaScript, Eclipse, Shell Scripting, AngularJS Python Developer IBM - Research Triangle Park, NC April 2012 to August 2013 IBM (International Business Machines) Corporation is an American multinational technology Company. The scope of the project is to enhance and create online learning management solution that aims to help HR professionals apply a consistent, thorough, and measurable learning path to their workforce. Complex ideas can be easily explained and supported with visuals across the business and graphics underlining key areas. The training materials can be accessed by employees at any time as a refresher. Each employee must need to register as a first time user, login and access their desired training library.    Responsibilities:  * Used standard Python modules e.g. CSV, Robot parser, Iter tools, Pickle, Jinja2, Xml for development.  * Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, JQuery and RESTAPI calls.  * Query and set up employee registration and login using Python PostgreSQL  * We use a multiple row data storage strategy called MVCC to make effective PostgreSQL responsive in Querying and storing in database.  * Experience for handling documented database and video file for online management system during creating online learning management solutions.  * Automated RabbitMQ cluster installations and configuration using Python/Bash.  * Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  * Fetched twitter feeds for certain important keyword using Python-twitter library.  * Used Python library Beautiful Soup for web scrapping to extract data for building graphs.  * Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes for Learning Management System  * Used Python Flask framework to build modular & maintainable applications.  * Automated data movements using Python scripts.  * Involved in splitting, validating and processing of files.  * Created core Python API which will be using among multiple modules.  * Uploaded statistics to MySQL for analysis and logging.  * Developed complex SQL queries for testing the database functionality.  * Used UNIX server for application deployment and configuration.  * Written shell scripting for automation.  * Provided technical assistance for maintenance, integration and testing of software solutions during development and release processes.  * Created unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.    Environment: Python, Django, Linux, HTML, CSS, Shell Scripting , PostgreSQL, MySQL, Python-Twitter Library, Flask, Web services, SVN, Pandas, FileZilla etc. Python Developer Xylem Water Solution India Pvt Ltd - Gujarat, IN January 2011 to March 2012 Xylem is a multinational Water Treatment and Transportation Company headquartered in Gujrat India. The company sells various types of Fluid Handling Pumps /Machines across the Globe. The project was to build Client Web Application using Python and Amazon cloud so that Clients across the globe can pull the relevant pumping data from Amazon Cloud in order to utilize them to function the Fluid Handling Pumps /Machines in most effective and efficient way.    Responsibilities:  * Involved in Web application penetration testing process, web crawling process to detect and exploit SQL Injections Vulnerabilities.  * Wrote Test Automation Script for deployment of AWS and Company Web API, using python package, puppet configuration tool to update and check historical pumping data from AWS. Compare the existing data and historical data and create performance chart for client.  * Wrote automate Python Script for testing program to store machine detection alarm when Pump experience overloading to Amazon cloud.  * Wrote program to fetch data and from amazon cloud and send the client according their requirement.  * Passed query and wrote script to automate machine alarm data with timestamp to engineer.  * Used Python and Pandas library, built data analysis graph for documentation and record.  * Worked with Blender script, built add-on and customization of blender interface.  * Used SPSS tool for statistical programming and computational techniques for large data sets and quantitative analysis.  * Used SPSS tool for Visualization techniques for summarizing complex data analysis using Python.  * Independently developed and implemented analysis workflow and quality practices, including workflow optimization, process standardization, configuration management of analysis files and software, and verification and validation (V&V) of models.  * Using Numerical equation, built application and do 2D- finite Element analysis using python language  * Used Django database API's to access database objects.  * Generated graphical reports using python package Numpy and MatPlotLib.  * Representation of the system in hierarchy form by defining the components, subcomponents using Python and developed set of library functions over the system based on the user needs.  * Development of Python APIs to dump the array structures in the Processor at the failure point for debugging.  * Extracted the actual data of HTML format and predicted raw data; interpreted and stored predicted one in well-organized JSON files.  * Wrote programs to parse excel file and process many user data with data validations.  * Used Python and Django to interface with the JQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  * Maintained data with different levels of access privileges.    Environment: Python2.7, Amazon Cloud, Blender, C#, Macros OracleDB, Debian, Apache Server, pandas Django, MySQL, Linux, HTML, GIT, CSS, JavaScript. Python Developer / CAD Designer Standard Belex India Pvt. Ltd - Gujarat, IN February 2009 to December 2010 Standard Belex India Pvt. Ltd. is one of the leading manufacturers of Scaffolding & formwork in India, with two well-equipped manufacturing plants in Vadodara, State of Gujarat, India. I worked at Standard Belex in the capacity of Python Developer and CAD Designer. As a part of Python Developer, the position was about automating laser cutting machines using Python in order to meet customer expectation towards their cutting needs for metal /semiconductors / probe sheets etc. Python and MySQL Database are used for management of client data, material data and ASME Design Standard Data. As a CAD Designer I was responsible for performing solution architecture for rendering various images and dimension data and building FEA Model (Finite Element Analysis) using Pycalculix Tool (which is nothing but Python2 library) which uses the Calculix program to run and solve finite element analysis models. With this model one can see and understand part stresses, strains, displacements, and reaction forces.    Responsibilities:  * Created or identified state-of-the-art computational mechanics algorithms that extend modeling capabilities, implement as software suitable for high-performance computers, and document their verification.  * Wrote script or program to automate analysis tools to streamlining the evaluation of initial data for integrity.  * Using Python package created an interface automate import and exporting drawing and extracting standard data for manufacturing purpose.  * Built application and program to streamline the cavity development and process and generate documentation from the design and via versa.  * Used Python Flask framework to build modular & maintainable applications.  * Automated data movements using Python scripts. Involved in splitting, validating and processing of files.  * Created core Python API which will be using among multiple modules.  * Participated in developing web application UI using HTML, CSS, JavaScript.  * Uploaded statistics to MySQL for analysis and logging.  * Developed complex SQL queries for testing the database functionality.  * Used UNIX server for application deployment and configuration.  * Wrote shell scripting for automation.  * Designed database schema design and defined relationships between tables.  * Provided technical assistance for maintenance, integration and testing of software solutions during development and release processes.  * Created unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  * Controlled backend logic using Python.  * Provided design/CAD team strong scripting capabilities in SKILL, PERL, Ocean, Linux Shell, etc.  * Interface with CAD tool vendors to prove out releases and flows, solve bugs, improve usability, etc.  * Performed 3D Modelling and Analysis using CAD tools  * Wrote script and macros for analysis tool for dynamic analysis  * Installation of different Unix System, CAD, Database required to perform  * Solution for existing machinery and new developed machine based on analysis and simulation.  * Creating 3D complex surface modelling and do various static, dynamic and fluid analysis.  * Supporting documentation needed for manufacturing engineering change request and clearly and frequently communicate with all functional areas.    Environment: Python, CAD, UNIX, MySql, Pandas, Flask, OpenNLP, StanfordNLP, CSS, JavaScript, XML, Matlab Education MSICS American College of Commerce and Technology - Fairfax, VA B.E. Mechanical Engineering Sardar Patel University Skills C++, DJANGO, DOCKER, Hadoop, HDFS Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/barot-h-72855a141/ Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Operating Systems: Windows, MAC OS, Unix/Linux  Languages: Python, C++, Java, J2EE  Python Libraries: Numpy, Matplotlib, NLTK, Statsmodels, Scikit-learn/sklearn, SOAP, Scipy  Python Frameworks: Pandas, Flask, Django, Docker  Python IDE: Sublime Text 3, Eclipse, Jupyter Notebook, VIM, Pycharm  NLP used for Python: NLTK, OpenNLP, StanfordNLP (NER, POSTag, Tokenization)  Databases: RDBMS (Oracle, SQL Server, MySQL), No SQL (MongoDb), HDFS (Hadoop)  Web Technologies: CSS, JavaScript, XML, AJAX, JQuery, Bootstrap, AWS, RESTFul Web Services  Other Tools: Putty, SQL developer, Toad, JIRA, Matlab, R