Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - AT&T • Over Seven years of IT experience in n-layer web applications and automation development using Python, Flask, Django, C++, MySQL, CSS, HTML, Java script, MVC, AJAX.  • Experience with Virtualization technologies in Installing, Configuring, and Administering VMware ESX/ESXi.  • Corporate trained in agile methodologies and fluent in scrum and sprint planning.  • Knowledge in OpenStack services such as NOVA, SWIFT, KEYSTONE, NEUTRON, CINDER and GLANCE.  • Experienced in developing asynchronous messaging services using ZeroMQ, twisted ZeroMQ.  • Design and implemented Python networking tools using XML-RPC and twisted XML-RPC servers that serves information via UNIX sockets and TCP protocols.  • Experience with Object Oriented Design and SDLC methodologies using Rational Rose, Unified Modeling Language (UML).  • Experience in Objected oriented design using C++.  • Design, build and maintain reliable and efficient C++applications.  • Experience in writing multithreading and socket programs using C++ and python.  • Worked on advanced concepts of C++ like STLs.  • Experienced in Test driven approach for developing the application and Implemented the unit tests using Python Nose Test framework.  • Experienced in implementation of Creation, Management and Configuration of Virtual Machines, Clone and Templates.  • Involved in entire life cycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Familiar and developed JSON based REST Web services.  • Experience includes Database Design, Analysis and Development with MySQL, Oracle.  • Proficient in Software Design and developing applications in Linux Environment using C++.  • Experienced in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM Process.  • Experience in using Version Control Systems such as GIT, SVN. Good Experience with PEP-8 and Google coding Guidelines in Python.  • Wrote AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings.  • Self-motivated with good work ethic and team work skills. Work Experience Python Developer AT&T - Atlanta, GA January 2017 to Present Project: Global Customer Support Service  GOSS is an internal web application for global customer support service which proposes to maintain orders and service agreements globally. This project is Django based restful web application with react js as view.  Responsibilities:  • Developed web pages using HTML, CSS and Bootstrap and reactjs.  • Involved in requirement gathering from SE's and Stake holders.  • Collaborated with team in turning the requirements to functional and software modules.  • Wrote django admin pages and developed REST API get, post, delete, put functionalities for the application.  • Wrote JavaScript form validations for all the web pages in the application.  • Wrote ajax calls to get, post, delete REST API calls for upload and delete files.  • Wrote django serializers to represent data in JSON format for the ajax calls.  • Wrote admin pages to insert, retrieve, and delete customer details.  • Create admin pages to view error logs.  • Create admin pages with filters with add, edit and delete functionalities.  • Fixed existing user interface bugs with CSS and JavaScript functionalities.  • Wrote unit test scripts for models.  • Wrote python scripts to perform CRUD operations on MySql database.  • Used react google charts to show data in column charts, combo chart, bar charts.  • Involved in QA process for code review.  • Working in Agile and scrum environment which includes daily standup and sprint planning.  • Use of Jira, Git, Pycharm, CentOS.  Environment: Python 3.5, Django, Docker, Google Charts, JSX, RestFramework, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, Reactjs, MySql, Jira, Git, CentOS, MySql, Ajax, Docker developer Thales Group - Melbourne, FL February 2016 to February 2016 to December 201    Project: CI/CD and STV+  Primary roles and responsibilities are to develop and maintain automated tests using Python, Robot test and Nose tests frameworks for internal applications in CI/CD and InFlight Entertainment and Connectivity.  Responsibilities:  • Develop and maintain automated tests using Python and the Robot test framework  • Develop and maintain internal facing web applications using Python  • Develop and maintain internal facing RESTful services using Python  • Wrote client side of Flytnet Web Development Application that also happens to run in the backend of a Flask WEB application.  • Wrote JavaScript and HTML for the client side of Flask WEB application to track status of operations running in Development Application.  • Wrote script to interface an application running on a remote server using Python, ZMQ and Google Proto Buffers.  • Added iptables NAT for SSH tunneling/port forwarding to install packages on private host via publicly exposed IP address.  • Implemented distributed architecture by using ZeroMQ messaging library using the epmg socket type which is very much essential for the messaging pattern in the project.  • Wrote python scripts for multi-threading and multiprocessing.  • Implement antenna status notifications for antenna.  • Wrote scripts to identify connected antenna, antenna type at initialization, antenna slew elevation limit, antenna state changes, antenna communication failure, antenna command events.  • Create zmq publisher to publish antenna status service announcement.  • Wrote several python unit tests using nose test framework.  • Build automated scripts to collect and archive python coverage and consolidation doxygen comments in master builds.  • Experience in writing scripts to send messages from different servers using Python, ZMQ curve, ZeroMQ, twisted ZeroMQ, twisted XML-RPC, XML-RPC, Google Proto Buffers via IPC, TCP, UDP sockets.  • Wrote python scripts to parse config files.  • Participated in Scrum-related team activities, i.e., daily standup, sprint planning, etc  • Involved in code reviews and bug tracking on Jira.  • Experience with Jira, Stash, Confluence. Followed Google Python Coding Style and PEP-8.  Environment: Python 2.7, nose 1.3.7, Robot framework 3.0, ZeroMQ, twisted ZeroMQ, XML-RPC, twisted XML-RPC, IPC, TCP, UPD, Linux, Git, Stash, Jira, Confluence, Ubuntu 14.04, PyCharm, Eclipse PyDev, Pylint, PEP-8 Python Developer Hewlett-Packard - Sunnyvale, CA April 2015 to January 2016 Project: Open Stack HP Helion  Responsible in development and automation of deploying and cloning virtual machines on vcenter  Creation, Management and Configuration of Virtual Machines, Clone and Templates  Responsibilities:  • Installed VMware ESX server 4.1/4.0 and created virtual machines on ESX Servers. Created standard templates and deployed virtual machines from these templates.  • Creation, Management and Configuration of Virtual Machines, Clone and Templates.  • Customizing guest operating system on Virtual Machines.  • Wrote scripts in scale out process for deploying multiple virtual machines from a single template.  • Built task monitoring script to monitor various tasks such as poweron a virtual machine after cloning, clone virtual machine and reboot virtual machine using pyvmomi.  • Implemented script to monitor on vcenter tasks.  • Built web crawler on Jenkin web site to get the latest build information.  • Wrote python scripts for IP address and Mac Address validation.  • Built python scripts to read and write JSON files.  • Re-wrote scripts to use data exchange formats like JSON and made more modular.  • Wrote scripts to clone virtual machine on ESX from the given template name in JSON file.  • Built scripts to deploy virtual machine on ESX when template name is not specified.  • Wrote script to generate IP address from CIDR and write into JSON files and assign them to virtual machine while cloning.  • Built scripts to suppress the urllib3 warning when accessing vcenter using pyvmomi.  • Used ansible for automating cloud deployment process of various templates.  • Integrated and involved in daily scrum meetings with both onsite and offshore team.  • Wrote multithreading scripts to access data from different locations.  • Wrote python scripts to assign ip addresses to vm's on different networks.  Environment: Python 3.3, JSON, hLinux, Linux, Git, Jira, VMware vSphere 5.5, VMware ESX 4.1, KVM. Python Developer HPDRC and Cyber Security - Miami, FL January 2014 to March 2015 Description: Responsible in building automated tools to identify privacy and security issues in online (geo) social networks (e.g., fake review detection, private location-centric aggregates, and location verification)  Responsibilities:  • Responsible for building and automation of web scraper for Google play android apps web site and urls in python with BeautifulSoup module.  • Used Python in-built libraries like, urllib, urllib2, os, multithreading and many advanced libraries to build automation libraries.  • Implemented multithreading to reduce the time in scraping numerous android application urls.  • Implemented automation script using Crontab in python to run the web crawler.  • Used cURL for web scraping contents that cannot be scraped normally.  • Worked with MySql database for querying scraped data that are dumped from CSV files.  • Used R-Analytics for analyzing data and plotting Pie Charts, Bar Charts, Box plots, Histograms, Line Graphs, Scatter plots.  • Implemented zoom in, zoom out, drag and drop functionalities using JavaScript and jQuery for touch screens and cursor controls.  • Implemented URL parser for markers to be displayed on user interface for images by using json, jQuery and JavaScript.  • Knowledge in cyber-attacks and vulnerabilities.  • Convert flash to JavaScript for TerraFly.com website  Environment: Python, R, BeautifulSoup, MySQL, Linux, HTML5, XHTML, CSS3, AJAX, JavaScript, Apache Web Server, Git. Software Developer Symbiosys - Visakhapatnam May 2011 to December 2013 Description: The aim of the project is to redesign website, create dynamic web pages for online banking system. Configure database to maintain the entire customer.  Responsibilities:  • Responsibilities include database design, code profiling and extensive documentation  • Designed and implemented a dynamic image rendering which is consumed by PHP, JavaScript.  • Designed a C++ driven application from the ground up that allows system administrators to configure and monitor an entire environment.  • Used advanced techniques such as dynamic data binding.  • Introduced DHTML-based smart form submission engine, which validated client side data and all dependencies (without reloading HTML page).  • Developed JavaScript API used by clients to integrate the application with other  • modules.  • Increased developer productivity by using efficient programming methodologies and local development  • Involved in verification and testing in order to set MySQL database free from SQL injections  Environment: C++, C, JavaScript 1.5, MySQL, Apache Server, Linux and UNIX Shell