Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Agero - MA Medford, MA • 6+ years of Professional IT experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Testing of Enterprise Applications and Database Development.  • Experienced with full software development life-cycle, architecting scalable platforms, object-oriented programming, database design and agile methodologies  • Good Experience of software development in Python (libraries used: numpy, scipy, matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas dataframe, MySQL dB for database connectivity) and IDEs - sublime text, Spyder, pycharm.  • Experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and waterfall models in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Good Experience in developing web applications implementing MVT/MVC architecture using Django, Flask, Webapp2 and spring web application frameworks.  • Expertise in creating Restful API in NodeJS and communicate with Clojure server via protocol and use Backbone to generate template.  • Expert knowledge of and experience in Object Oriented Design and Programming concepts.  • Experience in managing MongoDB environment from availability, performance and scalability perspectives.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, PHP, C++, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Experience in using Eclipse, Pycharm, Visual Studio, and Sublime Text while developing different application in python.  • Experience in writing Subqueries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database  • Good Experience in Linux Bash scripting and following PEP Guidelines in Python.  • Familiar with JSON based REST Web services.  • Developed/supported application on LAMP stack (PHP, MYSQL and Apache)  • Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache.  • Good knowledge of version control software - CVS, GitHub  • Front end development experience using HTML, CSS, JQuery and JavaScript.  • Ability to learn and adapt quickly to the emerging New technologies and paradigms.  • Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python/PHP) Architecture.  • Experience in Multi-Tier distributed Enterprise applications  • Working knowledge in multi-tiered distributed environment, OOAD concepts, good understanding of Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC)  • Excellent Experience of Databases such as MySQL, Microsoft SQL Server, PostgreSQL, SQL/PLSQL concepts  • Continuously manages multiple deadlines and competing priorities through proactively planning and managing tasks and resources.  • Detailed oriented and resourceful in the completion of projects with an ability to multitask and meet strict deadlines.  • Willingness to work in a highly dynamic environment and ready to take up challenges. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Agero - MA February 2017 to Present Agero is working with leading vehicle manufacturers and insurance carriers to drive the next generation of vehicle and mobile technology forward. Agero is providing the services like Road-side assistance, claims& asset management, mobile offering and information services. It is one of the leading company which is providing the safest and smartest solutions for clients and their drivers.    Responsibilities:  • Translated the customer requirements into design specifications and ensured that the requirements translate into software solution.  • Application was based on service-oriented architecture and used Python 2.5, Django 1.5, JSF 2, Spring 2, Ajax, HTML, CSS for the frontend.  • Involved in web application development for backend system using AngularJS and Node.js with cutting edge HTML5 and CSS techniques.  • Designed the front end of the application using Python, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON and JQuery. Worked on backend of the application, mainly using Active Records.  • Involved in the design, development and testing phases of application using AGILE methodology.  • Developing applications using RESTFUL architecture using Node.js and PHP as backend languages and Used Numpy for Numerical analysis  • Used the Python language to develop web-based data retrieval systems.  • Designed and maintained databases using Python and developed Python based API (RESTful Web Service) using Flask, SQL and PostgreSQL.  • Developed web sites using Django, Python, XHTML, CSS, JavaScript and Node.js.  • Developed and designed e-mail marketing campaigns using HTML and CSS.  • Tested and implemented applications built using Python and Node.js  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, ROBOT framework, Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Created complex dynamic HTML UI using jQuery.  • Automated Regression analysis for determining fund returns based on index returns ( Python/Excel).  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures, trigger and function on MYSQL.  • Developed shopping cart for Library and integrated web services to access the payment.  • Used Php language on lamp server to develop page.  • Developed server-based web traffic statistical analysis tool using Flask, Pandas.  • Implemented and tested python-based web applications interacting with MySQL.  • Developed dynamic interaction page on .net MSvisualbasic-2014, using SQL developer tools.  • Performed joins, group by and other operations in MapReduce using Python.  • Wrote MapReduce code to make un-structured data into semi- structured data and loaded into Hive tables.  • Supported MapReduce Programs those are running on the cluster.  • Executed queries using Hive and developed MapReduce jobs to analyze data.  • Involved in doing AGILE (SCRUM) practices and planning of sprint attending daily agile (SCRUM) meetings and SPRINT retrospective meetings to produce quality deliverables within time.    Environment: Linux, Python 2.7, Mod Python, Perl, PHP, MySQL, JavaScript, Ajax, Shell Script, HTML, CSS Python Developer Cisco - San Diego, CA September 2015 to December 2016 Design & development of DNA that provides an easy to use single dashboard for monitoring network health, identifying issue root causes, evaluating network configuration and remediating issues. I am part of NDP (Network Data Platform) team.    Responsibilities:  • Developed Python based API (RESTful Web Service) to track the events and perform analysis using Django.  • Created a Python/Django based web application using Python scripting for data processing, MySQL for the database, and HTML/CSS/jQuery and High Charts for data visualization of the served pages.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Worked on writing and as well as read data from csv and excel file formats with Perl/ Python scripts.  • Used python libraries like Beautiful Soap, NumPy and SQL Alchemy.  • Build integration with many third parties, making heavy use of asynchronous processing with Celery and Rabbit MQ.  • Worked with routing protocols and hardware platforms utilizing TCP/IP, IP Routing, Metro Ethernet protocols, Cisco & Juno OS.  • Implemented Cloud Infrastructure as a Service environment using open source technology OpenStack to enable portability of cloud services across hybrid cloud environments.  • Worked with HTTP which is designed to permit intermediate network elements to improve or enable communications between clients and servers.  • Provided technical support on networking including port-forwarding, TCP/IP settings.  • Managed requirements and tasks using JIRA.  • Built web-services using SOAP that allowed integrating the business application with the legacy applications and facilitates for future applications.  • Involved in debugging the applications monitored on JIRA using agile methodology.  • Automated the existing scripts for performance calculations using NumPy and SQL Alchemy.  • Developed application which accessed the Cloud foundry API to monitor trends in development environments using other CF tools: Jenkins, Chef, and Puppet.  • Translated design specs into responsive user interface component for web & devices using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, jQuery, JavaScript, Angular JS & AJAX.  • Involved in creating and extracting data from database using SQL Queries, PL/SQL on Oracle database.  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation  • Involved in Using AWS Cloud Watch performed Monitoring, customized metrics and file logging.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.6, HTML5, CSS, XML, MySQL, MongoDB, JavaScript, Angular JS, jQuery, CSS Bootstrap, Rabbit MQ, Celery, T-SQL, JavaScript, Eclipse, Git, GitHub Linux, Radis, Shell Scripting Developer ALFA - Bengaluru, Karnataka June 2013 to July 2015 Alfa resources is a highly focused, emerging provider of recruitment solutions in India, offering a wide variety of services that connect top quality candidates with clients looking to fill positions in their organizations. Also provides an extensive range of services for domestic and multi-national companies.    Responsibilities:  • Used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users.  • Used python libraries like Beautiful Soup and matplotlib and Built efficient Node.js backend for client web application.  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation.  • Used PHP as an HTML embedded scripting language, in front end web development.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS, JQuery, JSON and JavaScript.  • Used Bootstrap as a mechanism to manage and organize the html page layout.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Developed various algorithms for generating several data patterns and Worked on Node.js for developing server-side web applications and Used JIRA for bug tracking and issue tracking.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL db package.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Developed entire front-end and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django module to deliver certain format of data.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.    Environment: MySQL, HTML, Python 2.0, Django 1.4, CSS, XML, MySQL, JavaScript, Linux, Shell Scripting, PHP, AJAX. Developer SIM Solutions Pvt. Ltd - Delhi, Delhi March 2012 to May 2013 An e Commerce company (HQ in California, US) providing services in multiple disciplines, like - Online Shopping Cart Development, On line Promotion, Price Comparison Shopping, SEO, Customer & Technical Support through Chat, Email and Voice.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) such as requirements gathering, modelling, analysis, design and development.  • Generated Use case diagrams, Activity flow diagrams, Class diagrams and Object diagrams in the design phase.  • Responsible for entire data migration from Sybase ASE server to Oracle  • Migration of API code written for Sybase to Oracle.  • Overlook the migration activity of PL/SQL programs  • Migration of the PL/SQL code from Sybase to Oracle.  • Migration of the data contained in the earlier ASPL Database from Sybase to Oracle.  • Migrate the Libraries written using Sybase API's to Oracle's OCCI API's  • Automation of testing using Python.    Environment: Python 2.7, Shell scripting, PL/SQL, SVN, Quality Centre, Solaris, Windows, Perl. Education Bachelor's Skills Ajax (4 years), Bootstrap (4 years), Django (4 years), HTML (4 years), Python (5 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Primary Languages Python 2.7/2.4, Core Java, C, C++, Shell Script, Perl.  Python Libraries Beautiful Soup, numpy, scipy, matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas dataframe.  Databases MySQL, SQL Server 2008, PostgreSQL, MSSQL, MongoDB  Web Technologies AJAX, JavaScript, HTML, DHTML, XHTML, XML  Versioning Tools Git, SVN, VSS  Web servers Apache, Nginix, Tomcat  Framework Flask, Parsekit (Enigma.io), Bootstrap, Django, Node.JS, PyJamas, Pyramid, Hibernate  Other Tools Putty, SQL developer, Photoshop  SDLC Methods SCRUM, Agile