Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Fannie Mae, Virginia Reston, VA • Over 3 Years of experience in Analyzing, Developing, Managing and implementing various stand-alone, client-server enterprise applications using Python, Django, Java and mapping the requirements to the systems.  • Well versed with Agile with SCRUM, Waterfall Model methodologies.  • Experience in developing web applications by using Python, Django, C++, XML, CSS, HTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Experience in implementing with server side technologies with restful API and MVC design patterns with node.js and Django framework.  • Extensive experience in Amazon Web Services (Amazon EC2, Amazon S3, Amazon Simple DB).  • Proficient in SQLite, MySQL and PostgreSQL databases with Python.  • Experienced in working with various Python IDE's using PyCharm, PyScripter, PyDev, IDLE and Sublime Text  • Experience with Numpy, Scipy, Matplotlib, Urllib2, Beautiful Soup, python libraries during development lifecycle.  • Hands-on experience in handling database issues and connections with SQL and NoSQL databases like MongoDB, Cassandra, DynamoDB by installing and configuring various packages in python.  • Expertise in working with GUI frameworks- Guidata, PyGUI.  • Good Knowledge in writing different kinds of tests like Unit test/Pytest and build them.  • Experienced with version control systems like Git, GitHub in order to keep the versions and configurations of the code organized.  • Experienced in writing SQL Queries, Stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, triggers using relational database like Oracle, DB2, MySQL, PostgreSQL and MS SQL server.  • Good Experience in Linux Bash scripting and following PEP-8 Guidelines in Python. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Fannie Mae, Virginia January 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in software development life cycle (SDLC) of tracking the requirements, gathering, analysis, detailed design, development, system testing and user acceptance testing.  • Designed the front end of the application using Python Scripting, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Node.js and JQuery.  • Used several python libraries like Numpy, Scipy and MatPlotLib.  • Worked on server side applications with Django using Python programming and used python libraries like Beautiful Soup, matplotlib, Scipy, NumPy and Built efficient Node.js backend for client web application.  • Developed the initial version of the multi-threaded Object-Oriented C++ management application.  • Developed rich user interface using CSS3, HTML5, JavaScript, JQuery and JSON.  • Implemented monitoring and established best practices around using elastic search and Install and configuring monitoring scripts for AWS EC2 instances and AWS S3.  • Implemented Integration test cases and used Git to resolve and coding the work on python.  • Used Git and Jira for code submissions and review process.  • Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, mangoDB, OracleDB, PostgreSQl.  • Designed, implemented, and maintained solutions for using Jenkins, Git. Java / Python Developer Agora group - IN July 2014 to November 2015 Responsibilities:  • Developed entire modules using Java and Python using Web Frameworks.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Designed complex application database SQL statements for querying, updating and reporting using Python Database Connector.  • Developed in Windows and going to deploy it in Linux server.  • Build SQL queries implementing functions, packages, views, triggers, and tables.  • Performed database operations and queries using MySQL.  • Developed Wrapper in Python for instantiating multi-threaded application and Deploy and monitor scalable infrastructure on Amazon web services (AWS).  • Designed complex application database SQL statements for querying, updating and reporting using Python Database Connector. Skills DJANGO (2 years), Git (1 year), PYTHON (2 years), MATPLOTLIB (1 year), NUMPY (1 year) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    SDLC Methodologies Agile, Waterfall  Operating Systems Windows and Linux  Programming Languages Python, Java  Python Libraries/Packages Numpy, Scipy, Pandas, Matplotlib, HTTPLib2, Urllib2, Beautiful Soup  Python Frameworks Django.Flask  IDE PyCharm, PyScripter, Spyder, IDLE, Sublime Text  AWS Services Amazon EC2, Amazon S3, Amazon Simple DB.  Databases/Servers MySQL, SQLite3, Cassandra, PostgreSQL, MongoDB  Testing/Bug Tracking Tools Bugzilla, JIRA.  Web Services/ Protocols TCP/IP, HTTP/HTTPS, REST, Restful  Version control system Git, GitHub