Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Caterpillar Houston, TX • Around 6+ years of experience as a Web Application Developer and coding using Python, Django, Java, Spring.  • Good Experience with Django, a high-level Python Web framework.  • Experienced with full Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), architecting scalable platforms, object oriented programming, database design and agile methodologies.  • Proficient in developing web-based applications using Python 2.7/2.6, Django 1.4/1.3, PHP, Flask, Webapp2, Angular.js, VB, C++, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, JQuery, Bootstrap.  • Experienced in LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python) Architecture.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, Java, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML and JavaScript.  • Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Familiar with JSON based REST Web services.  • Wrote AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings.  • Experience with Design, code, and debug operations, reporting, data analysis and web applications utilizing Python.  • Experience with WAMP and LAMP environments.  • Experience with Web Development, Web Services, Python and the Django framework.  • Experience in working on Application Servers like WebSphere, WebLogic, Tomcat, Web Servers like Apache Server, NGINX and Integrated Development Environments like PyCharm, Eclipse, MyEclipse, JDeveloper and RAD.  • Experience configuring and developing with different Database servers including MySQL, MSSQL, Oracle and Mongo Db.  • Experience in using UNIX shell Scripts for automating batch programs.  • Experience includes Database Design, Analysis and Development with MySQL, Oracle 10g/9i, SQL Server.  • Proficient with Apache Web Server 2.0, MySQL 5, CVS, UNIX Shell Script, CSS, XML, Firefox 3.5, IE 6 Browser Compatibility Issues, IIS and Linux.  • Hands on experience programming with C++ PYTHON, DJANGO and AJAX technologies.  • Proficient in using IBM Clear Case, Subversion (SVN), VSS, GIT for Version controlling.  • Proficient in Software Design and Development with a solid background in Developing and Experience developing applications in Linux Environment.  • Experienced in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM Process.  • Experience with Unit testing/ Test driven Development (TDD), Load Testing.  • Strong Knowledge of web application security and access control.  • Excellent written and oral communication skills with results-oriented attitude.  • Highly motivated, dedicated, quick learner and have proven ability to build and manage a team and work individually. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Caterpillar - Peoria, IL March 2017 to Present Project: Project Management Tool  Description: It is a database and tool designed to store all products information. It provides summary and detailed information about products, down to procedure and diagnosis descriptions of services. It is used by businesses to build and maintain products, plans and services.  Responsibilities:  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment  • Participated in the complete SDLC process  • Developed user interface using CSS, HTML, JavaScript and JQuery  • Wrote Python modules to extract/load asset data from the MySQL source database  • Designed and implemented a dedicated MYSQL database server to drive the web apps and report on daily progress  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface  • Used Django framework for application development  • Created entire application using Python, Django, MySQL and Linux.  • Utilize PyUnit, the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications  • Enhanced existing automated solutions, such as the Inquiry Tool for automated Asset Department reporting and added new features and fixed bugs  • Created database using MySQL, wrote several queries to extract/store data.  • Developed, tested and debugged software tools utilized by clients and internal customers  • Coded test programs and evaluated existing engineering processes  • Designed and configured database and back end applications and programs  • Resolved ongoing problems and accurately documented progress of a project  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Also used Bootstrap as a mechanism to manage and organize the html page layout.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django, HTML5/CSS, MS SQL Server 2013, MySQL, JavaScript, Eclipse, Linux, Shell Scripting, JQuery, GitHub, Angular.JS, Jira. Python Developer AMEX - New York, NY February 2016 to March 2017 Project: Online Dispute System  Description: The Online Dispute system provides an opportunity for the American express card holders to inquire about any suspicious transactions by raising disputes on their posted charges. Additionally, customers are provided with an option to monitor the status of the disputes online.  Responsibilities:  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Participated in the complete SDLC process.  • Developed user interface using CSS, HTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Wrote Python modules to extract/load asset data from the MySQL source database.  • Designed and implemented a dedicated MySQL database server to drive the web apps and report on daily progress.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Utilized PyUnit, the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications.  • Enhanced existing automated solutions, such as the Inquiry Tool for Automated Asset Department Reporting and added new features and fixed bugs.  • Developed, tested and debugged software tools utilized by clients and internal customers.  • Coded test programs and evaluated existing engineering processes.  • Designed and configured database and back end applications and programs.  • Created a Git repository and added the project to GitHub.  • Collaborated with internal teams to convert end user feedback into meaningful and improved solutions.  • Resolved ongoing problems and accurately documented progress of project.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django, HTML5/CSS, MySQL, JavaScript, Eclipse, Linux, Shell Scripting, JQuery, GitHub, Angular.JS, JIRA. Python Developer ADP - Salem, NH January 2015 to January 2016 Worked on Online Payroll System. Payroll ERP is developed to satisfy all the Payroll needs of a corporate. This software is used to aid in automating and providing timely and accurate payroll processing for all types of employees. Payroll software has built-in functions to accommodate the life cycle of payroll processing. This system captures details of different categories of Employees and generates pay slips detailing their income details calculated based on the Organization Budget lines, Income tax details and others.  Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Worked with millions of database records on a daily basis, finding common errors and bad data patterns and fixing them.  • Exported/Imported data between different data sources using SQL Server Management Studio.  • Maintained program libraries, user's manuals and technical documentation.  • Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Used Python library Beautiful Soup for web scrapping to extract data for building graphs.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  • Implemented code in Python to retrieve and manipulate data.  • Also used Bootstrap as a mechanism to manage and organize the HTML page layout.    Environment: Python, Django, HTML5/CSS, MS SQL Server 2008, MySQL, JavaScript, Eclipse, Linux, Shell Scripting, JIRA. JAVA Developer SunTrust Bank - Atlanta, GA March 2013 to November 2014 It is a project of SunTrust indulged in business and financing services. There are primarily two workflows in this project. One is for Administration of Sun web and the other is for Users. Admin user can change the entitlements of users and approve, reject, activate or deactivate the membership of new Customer from various services. The User flow actually provides sign up, enrolment to various services and business information like new products, their related documents and links, messages and alerts (outages) etc and other online services (integrated and non-integrated). Every customer has to login through the Sun web and the Homepage of SunTrust Bank. Sun web provides the personalized business information and links to the enrolled online services.  Responsibilities:  • Participated in low level design and requirement understanding with functional team  • Used OOAD and OOP's concept like Abstraction, Polymorphism, Inheritance, Encapsulation  • Extensively used Java Collections and Reflection API  • Implemented multithreading concepts for caching application data.  • Used design patterns like Business Delegate, Singleton, Session Facade, MVC, Service Locator  • Developed screens using JSP, DHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, Struts, Spring, Java1.5, EJB3.0 and XML  • Implemented MVC architecture using spring and Struts frameworks combined with EJB 3.0 JPA for database persistence.  • Created Single page application using Backbone.JS and Node.JS to handle data flow.  • Used Struts Tiles Framework to structure core application webpage layouts and to assemble the JSPs.  • Also created various common tags that are reused for handling common functionalities like data element filtering, Parent/Child dropdowns etc.  • Used Spring Dependency Injection feature and configured Function Action classes as Spring Beans for redirecting the user request to the appropriate class which implements corresponding business functionality.  • Used SQL/PLSQL to perform complex database operations and generated various stored procedures, functions for DML operations,  • Developed JUnit test cases  • Involved in various internal releases of the application and supported the application modules during testing and pre-production phases.    Environment: J2EE, Spring Framework-2.5, Struts, EJB3.0, JPA, Oracle 10g, TOAD, AJAX, Log4J, ANT, JUnit, WebSphere, JavaScript, Node.JS , Backbone.JS, Eclipse, Rational Clear Case. JAVA Developer Capital One, NJ December 2011 to February 2013 Project: Credit card online system  This application has been developed to promote business transactions using leading edge, object oriented, distributed, middleware technology. The three tier architecture was used as a "financial application package" to the financial market ans by developing sets of financial business objects; this project is flexible enough to have its capabilities extended or modified to meet any changes or business requirements within time frame.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in Design and prepared activity diagrams, sequence diagrams and class diagrams from various use-cases using Rational Rose.  • Wrote CSS file for writing common classes which give the proper look and feel as mentioned in UI standards.  • The middle tier was developed using Session Beans, Entity Beans and presentation tier extensively made use of JSP.  • Involved in Design and Development using Oracle as database.  • Contributed to project by working on end to end flow - developing JSP's for front end, by developing Servlets, BO classes in middle tier and to database front by writing various SQL queries and Stored Procedures.  • Designed and developed modules "Fixed income, CreditNote, Payment History, Reports generation.  • Involved in packaging and deployment of the application onto WebLogic 5.1 application server  • Built, tested and debugged JSP Pages for critical modules in the system.  • Developed middle tier using Session Bean, Entity Bean and presentation layer made use of JSP.  • WebSphere was used as the application server.  • Implemented the required Java Beans used by the JSP components.  • Coded the Taglibs to aid front-end JSP pages.  • Oracle was used as a database.    Environment: Java, J2EE, JSP, Servlets, Java Script, Custom Tags, JDBC, XML, JAXB, Oracle, DB2 (UDB), Web logic Application Server, Mail Server, JMS, LDAP Server, Log4j, VSS, Windows 2000. Skills CSS (6 years), deployment (3 years), Django (3 years), Eclipse (4 years), testing (3 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Web Technologies HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, XML, DOM, AJAX, jQuery, JSON and CSS Bootstrap.  Languages C, C++, Python, Java, JDBC, JNDI, JSP, Servlets, Shell Scripting, Django,  Frameworks Django, Flask, Pyramid, PyJamas, Jython, Angular JS, Node JS, Spring, Hibernate  Webserver Apache HTTP webserver, WebLogic, WebSphere, JBoss and Apache Tomcat  IDE Eclipse, webstorm, Sublime Text, Brackets, Pycharm, Pystudio, Pyscripter.  Deployment Tools Heroku, Amazon EC2, Jenkins and Fabric  Databases Oracle 8i/9i/10g/11g, MySQL, SQLite, Cassandra, Redis and mongo DB  Testing Tools Bugzilla, Jasmine, Pyunit, JIRA and Junit  Miscellaneous Git, SVN, CVS  Operating Systems Windows, Red Hat Linux, Mac OS