Senior Python Developer Senior <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Python Developer - NuStar Energy San Antonio, TX • Over 7+ Years of experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Management, and Implementation of various standalone and client-server architecture based enterprise application software.  • Extensive knowledge in Python, PHP, MySQL, NoSQL, UNIX and Linux.  • Experience with Design, code, debug operations, reporting, data analysis and web applications utilizing Python.  • Worked with MVW frameworks like Django, Angular JS, HTML, CSS, XML, Java Script, JQuery, JSON and Node.js.  • Involvement in building frameworks and automating complex workflows using Python for Test Automation.  • Experience in writing REST APIs in Python for large-scale applications.  • Have good exposure in LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python) and WAMP Architectures.  • Excellent working Experience in Agile (SCRUM) using Rally and TFS, RUP and Waterfall methodologies with high quality deliverables delivered on-time.  • Wrote Python modules to extract/load asset data from the MySQL source database.  • Good Command of web services with protocols SOAP, REST.  • Utilized PyUnit, the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications.  • Anticipated potential parts of failure (database, communication points, file system errors). Good working experience in using version control systems CVS, SVN, Amazon EC2, Git, and GitHub.  • Evaluated potential software products based on new and existing system development and migration requirements.  • Proficient in developing websites and web applications using PHP, MYSQL, AWS, Flask, Jinga, REDIS, HTML, XML, JSON, CSS, Java Script & AJAX.  • Performed regression and system-level testing to verify software quality and function before it was released.  • Experience in working with Python ORM Libraries including Django ORM.  • Superior Troubleshooting and Technical support abilities with Migrations, Network connectivity and Security and Database applications.  • Assessed costs and risks associated with developing new features and products.  • Skilled in testing tools like Bugzilla and JIRA.  • Contributed to the Python codebase used in the automated deployment of software on multiple virtual machines.  • Experienced in working with various Python IDEs using PyCharm, Spyder, NetBeans, PyStudio, PyScripter, Eric, Wing IDE and PyDev.  • Experienced in requirement gathering, Use case development, Business Process flow, Business Process Modelling  • Responsible for user validations on client side as well as server side.  • Adept at automating repetitive work through Shell scripts and Python.  • Able to analyze a requirement and act accordingly by managing the resources efficiently. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Senior Python Developer NuStar Energy - San Antonio, TX February 2016 to Present NuStar Energy is a publicly traded master limited partnership and is one of the largest independent liquids terminal and pipeline operators in the nation. It solves the logistical needs of customers by moving and storing refined products, crude oil and other feedstocks that help fuel the global economy, and does so in a safe, reliable and environmentally sensitive manner.  Responsibilities:  • Worked on development of internal testing tool framework written in Python.  • Developed GUI using Python and Django for dynamically displaying block documentation and other features of python code using a web browser.  • Wrote scripts in Python for extracting data from HTML file.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Used JavaScript and JSON to update a portion of a webpage.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many bug fixes for applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  • Handled potential points of failure (database, communication points and file system errors) through error handling and communication of failure.  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile)  • Wrote Python scripts to parse JSON documents and load the data in database.  • Worked on Restful API's to access the third-party data for the internal analysis and statistical representation of data.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django including Tastypie Web Framework using Git.  • Worked on front end frame works like CSS Bootstrap for development of Web applications.  • Created database using MySQL, wrote several queries to extract data from database.  • Worked in NoSQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization and renormalization.  • Setup automated cron jobs to upload data into database, generate graphs, bar charts, upload these charts to wiki and backup the database.  • Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  • Designed front end using UI, HTML, Bootstrap, Node JS, underscore JS, Angular JS, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Followed AGILE development methodology to develop the application.  • Involved in Data base design, normalizations and de-normalization techniques.  • Involved in User Acceptance Testing and prepared UAT Test Scripts.  • Effectively communicated with the external vendors to resolve queries.  • Used and customized apache server to for checking our developed project.  • Used Test driven approach (TDD) for developing services required for the application.  • Implemented Integration test cases.  • Used Git to resolve and coding the work on python and portlet.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.4, HTML5, CSS, XML, MySQL, JavaScript, Angular JS, JQuery, CSS Bootstrap, JavaScript, Eclipse, Git, GitHub, AWS, Linux, Shell Scripting. Senior Python Developer Blue Cross Blue Shield Association - Charlotte, NC December 2014 to January 2016 BCBS serves as the trade association that represents our 36 BCBS companies while providing national leadership with industry. BCBS has led the health care industry by raising the challenges that change brings, enabling new discoveries, and continue to evolve. Blue Cross and Blue Shield developed separately, with Blue Cross plans providing coverage for hospital services and Blue Shield covering physicians' services.  Responsibilities:  • Used UML Rational Rose to develop Use-case, Class and Object diagrams for OOA/OOD techniques.  • Built database model, Views and API's using Python for interactive web based solutions.  • Placed data into JSON files using Python to test Django websites. Used Python scripts to update the content in database and manipulate files.  • Developed web based application using Django framework with python concepts.  • Generated Python Django forms to maintain the record of online users.  • Used Django API's to access the database.  • Involved in Python OOD code for quality, logging, monitoring, and debugging code optimization.  • Skilled in using Collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  • Wrote Python modules to view and connect the Apache Cassandra instance.  • Created Unit test/ regression test framework for working/new code.  • Installed and maintained web servers Tomcat and Apache HTTP in UNIX.  • Utilized standard Python modules such as CSV, itertools and pickle for development.  • Developed efficient Angular.js for client web based application.  • Responsible for designing, developing, testing, deploying and maintaining the web application.  • Designed and developed the UI for the website with HTML, XHTML, CSS, Java Script and AJAX.  • Involved in working with Python open stock API's.  • Developed Spark Code using python for faster processing of data.  • Responsible for managing large databases using MySQL.  • Wrote and executed various MySQL database queries from Python-MySQL connector and MySQL db package.  • Used the Python's modules numpy, matplotlib, etc. for generating complex graphical data, creation of histograms etc.  • Developed and designed automation framework using Python and Shell scripting.  • Involved in debugging and troubleshooting issues and fixed many bugs in two of the main applications which are main source of data for customers and internal customer service team.  • Implemented SOAP/RESTful web services in JSON format.  • Associated with debugging the applications monitored on JIRA using Agile methodology.  • Attended many day-to-day meetings with developers and users and performed QA testing on the application.  • Experience in using containers like Docker.  Environment: Python 2.7,3.3, Django 1.4, HTML, CSS, AJAX, Tomcat, Apache HTTP, Angular.js, JSON, Restful, XML, JavaScript, OOD, Shell Scripting, GIT Hub, MYSQL, Cassandra, JIRA. Python developer Vertical Ops - Orem, UT September 2013 to November 2014 Vertical Ops is a dedicated Business Solutions Company tailored to the needs of our clients. We pride ourselves on our unique, industry-leading understanding of your business which produces quality sales, amazing customer service.  Responsibilities:  • Responsible for using the best technologies to add features to the existing system and services.  • Involved in all aspects of the development process from product inception to scaling in production.  • Accountable for driving software development best practices for the team and also mentoring and developing junior engineers.  • Working in collaboration with project managers and higher management in cross-functional teams within Sales and Account Management, to understand business requirements and develop efficient, elegant approaches to their implementation.  • Writing REST APIs, as part of developing web-based applications for insurance premium calculations, using Django's REST framework.  • Heavily leveraged Python's graphics APIs for creating graphics and serialization libraries for encoding data in XML/JSON formats.  • Correspondingly involved in writing REST APIs using Django framework for data exchange and business logic implementation.  • Involvement in using collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  • Design and implemented custom Bash scripts for controlling the data flow from the PostgreSQL database.  • Assisted the development team in sending the correct data via query strings using PostgreSQL as the back-end for storing data.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Responsible for configuring NoSQL databases like Apache Cassandra and Mongo DB to for increasing compatibility with Django.  • Designed and created backend data access modules using PL/SQL stored procedures.  • Good experience in writing SQL Queries and implementing stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, cursors, triggers.  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA.  • Actively worked as a part of team with managers and other staff to meet the goals of the project in the stipulated time.  • Developed and executed User Acceptance Testing portion of test plan.  • Generated Django forms to record data of online users and used PyTest for writing test cases.  • Extensive use of version controlling systems like GIT and SVN.  Environment: Python, Django, MySQL, NOSQL, GIT, SVN, Unit Test Linux, Windows. Software Developer ThoughtWorks - Dallas, TX October 2012 to August 2013 Worked on creating warehouse management application for hand-held devices to fetch the transfer goods data and showcase the same to stake holders.  Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Worked on high level design and detail design.  • Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website.  • Developed the interactive user interface using jQuery JavaScript library.  • Developed/Modified GUI using HTML, CSS and JavaScript (jQuery).  • Built application logic using Python 2.7, Django and MYSQL.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Developed python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Worked on all the client side validation using JavaScript.  • Wrote Constraints, Indexes, Views, Stored Procedures, Cursors, Triggers and User Defined function.  • Extensively used Selenium Library to write fully functioning test automation process that allowed the simulation of submitting different requests from multiple browsers to web applications.  • Worked with JQuery for all client side JavaScript manipulation.  • Developed unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  • Used Subversion control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Worked with Forms, views, models using Django.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Generated complex graphical data, creation of histograms etc using the Python's modules numpy, matportlib etc.  Environment: Python, Django 1.3, MySQL, Linux, HTML, XHTML, SVN, CSS, AJAX, Bugzilla, JavaScript, Apache Web Server. Python Developer SCM Profit - IN November 2010 to September 2012 SCM Profit is a dedicated Business Solutions Company tailored to the needs of our clients. We pride ourselves on our unique, industry-leading understanding of your business which produces quality sales, amazing customer service.  Responsibilities:  • Worked on requirement gathering and High level design.  • Used HTML/CSS, XML and JavaScript for UI development.  • Converted Visual Basic Application to Python, MySQL.  • Used python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Created Reports using JASPER.  • Modified queries, functions, cursors, triggers and stored procedures for MySQL database to improve performance, while processing data.  • Developed build and deployment scripts using ANT & MAVEN as build tools in Jenkins to move from one environment to other environments.  • Prepared the Test data (Input files) for interpreting the Positive/Negative/regression results based on the design requirements.  • Developed automated test scripts from manual test cases for Regression testing based on the requirement documents using Quick Test Professional.  • Used Collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  • Wrote many programs to parse excel file and process many user data with data validations.  • Responsible for Parsing XML data using XML parser and Testing, fixing of the bugs and coding modifications.  • Created data base tables, functions, stored procedures and wrote prepared statements using PL/SQL.  • Applied EMV card algorithms to system via python programs.  • Contributed patches back to Django.  • Responsible for getting the teams up and running with game record features.  • Performed research regarding Python Programming and its uses and efficiency.  • Utilized Python in the handling of all hits on Django, Redis, and other applications.  • Used Thales theorem for applying encryption and decryption of ISO standard message in Python programming.  • Used Redis as messaging broker to execute asynchronous tasks.  • Developed object-oriented programming to enhance company product management.  • Followed Agile Methodology and SCRUM Process.  • Extensive code reviewing using GitHub pull requests, improved code quality, and conducted meetings among peer.  • Collaborated with Product Management and User Experience experts regarding product definition, schedule, scope and project-related decisions.  • Managed, collaborated and coordinated the work of an offshore development team.  Environment: Python, Django, Visual Basic, Java Script, Hive, XML, JASPER, QTP, MySQL, PL/SQL, Oracle 9i, Bugzilla Python Developer Indmax - IN May 2010 to October 2010 Worked on UICC public project for Auto Loan and Home loan components with emphasis on creating web-services to provide data. Created applications for Payment and transfer project to optimize payment plans of businesses by using Django along-with BlueJs.  Responsibilities:  • Used Agile Methodology and SCRUM Process.  • Worked with the Stakeholders, gathered requirements, developed High level design and Detail design documents.  • Developed UI using HTML, AJAX, Javascript and jQuery and jQueryUI.  • Re-engineered various modules for implementing changes and creating efficient system.  • Developed rich UI web application using Javascript libraries like jQueryUI, datagrid, jscolor, and highcharts.  • Designed and developed components using Python with Django framework. Implemented code in python to retrieve and manipulate data.  • Implemented database access using Django ORM.  • Used MySQL as backend database and MySQLdb of python as database connector to interact with MySQL server.  • Used Restful APIs to access data from different suppliers.  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing of documents, data exchange and business logic implementation between servers.  • Associated with Restful API's to gather network traffic data from Servers.  • Supported Apache Tomcat web server on Linux Platform.  • Support the scripts configuration, testing, execution, deployment and run monitoring and metering.  • Developed and executed User Acceptance Testing portion of test plan.  Environment: Python, Django, C++, HTML/XHTML, XML, MySQL, Shell Scripting, PL/SQL, Unix, Linux, Windows. Education JNTU, India JNTU Skills Django (7 years), HTML (6 years), Python (7 years), testing (6 years), XML (7 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Programming Languages Python 2.5-2.7/3.4-3.6, C, SQL and PL/SQL.  Web Technologies HTML, CSS, DOM, SAX, Java Script, JQuery, AJAX, XML, AngularJS.  Frameworks Django, PyJamas, Flask, Jython, Pyramid, CherryPy  Version Control MVC, SVN, CVS, Git, GitHub.  Front End Angular, Jquery, Ajax, ExtJS, Node JS, React JS, JSON, Bootstrap, CSS, HTML  Analytic Tools JMP PRO, SAS, Tableau, UCI NET, Node XL  Application servers Apache Tomcat, JBoss  Databases Oracle, My SQL, PostgreSQL, Apache Cassandra  IDE's/ Development Tools NetBeans, Spyder, Eclipse, PyCharm, PyScripter, PyStudio, Atom and Sublime Text.  Operating Systems Windows 98/2000/XP/7/8/10, Red hat Linux 4.x/5.x/6.x, Ubuntu, and MacOS.  Protocols TCP/IP, HTTP/HTTPS, SOAP, SMTP  Testing Tools PyTest, Testify, Selenium, Bugzill and JIRA.