Spark/ Python Developer Spark/<span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Spark/ Python Developer - 84.51° Cincinnati, OH • Over 8+ Years of combined work experience in Analysis, Design, Big Data, Web Application Development, Management and Implementation of various stand alone, client-server enterprise applications.  • Extensive experience in Text Analytics, developing different Statistical Machine Learning, Data Mining solutions to various business problems and generating data visualizations using R, Python and Tableau.  • Hands on experience in using Hadoop ecosystem components like MapReduce, HDFS, HBase, Hive, Pig, Flume and Spark.  • Good experience in Python, Django, Hadoop, Flask, Pyramid, Ansible, Docker, CI/CD  • Experience in implementing server side technologies with RESTful APIs and MVC/MVT design patterns using Django/Flask frameworks.  • Having experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, AWS, WSGI, PostgreSQL, Redis, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, and XML.  • Experience in version control systems using CVS, SVN and Git/GitHub and issue tracking tools like Jira and Bugzilla.  • Experience in using Docker and Amazon web services (AWS) infrastructure with automation and configuration management tool such as Ansible.  • Experienced in MVW frameworks like Django, Angular.js, JavaScript, JQuery and Node.js.  • Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, Python/PHP), and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, Python/PHP) Architecture.  • Expert knowledge and experience in Object oriented Design and Programming concepts.  • Proficient in SQL databases MySQL, PostgreSQL, Oracle and NoSQL databases MongoDB, Cassandra, HBase.  • Experience with Web Services(SOAP, REST). Effective in executing multiple tasks and assignments ahead of schedule.  • Well versed in writing test cases using Nose, unit test and Robot test frameworks  • Excellent experience with Python development under Linux/Unix OS (Debian, Ubuntu, SUSE Linux, Red Hat Linux, Fedora) and Windows OS.  • Hands on SVN, Git, JIRA, Bugzilla, Amazon EC2/S3.  • Hands-on experience in UNIX, and Linux Kernels.  • Expertise in back-end procedure development, for RDBMS, Database Applications using SQL and PL/SQL. Hands on experience on writing Queries, Stored procedures, Functions and Triggers by using SQL.  • Experience in design and manage API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture.  • Experience in the field of Data warehouse using ETL tools such as Informatica Power Center, Power Mart 9x/8x databases as DB2, Oracle, MS SQL Server and Teradata.  • Capable of processing large sets of structured, semi-structured and unstructured data and supporting systems application architecture  • Experience in leading multiple efforts to build Hadoop platforms, maximizing business value by combining data science with big data.  • Experience with Configuring AWSEC2instances, EMR cluster with S3buckets, Auto-Scaling groups and CloudWatch.  • Experienced in developing Object Relation Mappings using Hibernate, JDBC, Spring JDBC and Spring Data with RDMS (Oracle, DB2, and MySQL) and NoSQL (MongoDB, Cassandra) databases.  • Involved in entire life cycle of the projects including design, development, and deployment, testing, implementation and support.  • A Self-starter with a positive attitude, willingness to learn new concepts and acceptance of challenges.  • Good Experience with Network Communication Protocols and High-scalability Architecture Work Experience Spark/ Python Developer 84.51° - Cincinnati, OH June 2017 to Present Description: 84.51° is devoted to helping retail partners develop, nurture and embrace customer-driven relationships. By using a sophisticated suite of tools and technology, our fearless people navigate the complex data landscape to reveal relevant customer patterns. We believe if you dig deep enough, the results will follow - and building the bottom line should be a result, not the primary objective.    Responsibilities:  • Designed and Developed application using Python, Django, MySQL and Linux  • Worked with offshore teams and internal clients to Design and analyze the requirements.  • Worked on LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL and PYTHON) architecture.  • Developed entire backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL and Django.  • Developed Python scripts using multithreading module.  • Used NLTK and Stanford NLP to process text data and created offline intelligence.  • Responsible for setting up Python REST API framework using DJANGO.  • Developed responsive UI using HTML5/CSS3, JavaScript, AngularJS and Bootstrap.  • Developed data format file that is required by the Model to perform analytics using Spark SQL and Hive query language.  • Create custom VB scripts in repackaging applications as needed. NLP File Prep Settlement-Prepare files for review for Settlement.  • Analyzed the sql scripts and designed it by using Spark SQL for faster performance.  • Responsible for writing test plans and executing tests via automation and manually.  • Developed database layer including Tables and Stored procedures in MYSQL.  • Installed and used CaffeDeep Learning Framework  • Worked on different data formats such as JSON, XML and performed machine learning algorithms in R.  • Used Pandas, NumPy, seaborn, SciPy, Matplotlib, Scikit-learn, NLTK in Python for developing various machine learning algorithms and utilized machine learning algorithms such as linear regression.  • Scraping, Machine Learning, Python programming, SQL, GIT, Unix Commands, NoSQL, MongoDB, Hadoop  • Implemented MVC architecture application using spring and created Lambda function in AWS using Spring Framework.  • Used Amazon Cloud EC2 along with Amazon SQS to upload and retrieve project history.  • Developed a Front-End GUI as stand-alone Python application.  • Created the Automation scripts using Python for testing applications as well as the integration of these application (API's &UI's) based on REST calls using Python, phrasing the JSON responses.  • Used JSON based and RESTful API for information extraction.  • Create "test modules" in python, internal processes for step-by-step system testing.  • Responsible for production implementation and system maintenance.  • Management of information in Cloud based VOIP solution in terms of basic usability/load/performance/audio quality.  • Demonstrate expertise in implementing overall CRM with Call Center, Five9, Oracle CCAand Voice over IP.    Environment: Spark, Python 2.7, Django 1.4, MySQL, Machine learning, Amazon EC2, Amazon SQS, S3,  Windows, Linux, HTML, CSS, AngularJS, JQuery, JavaScript, Apache. Python Developer Save Mart - Modesto, CA March 2016 to May 2017 Description: Save Mart Supermarkets (also known as The Save Mart Companies) is an American grocery store operator. It owns and operates stores under the names of Save Mart, S-Mart Foods, Lucky and Food Maxx. The stores are located in northern California and northern Nevada.    Responsibilities:  • Analyzed system requirements specifications and in client interaction during requirements specifications.  • Implemented Model View Control architecture in developing web applications usingDjango Framework.  • Develop the Perl and Shell scripts to automate the finance billing file.  • Designed the front end of the application using Python Scripting, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON and jQuery.  • Experience working with AWS for Storage & content delivery and Application deployment services.  • Implemented various Spark Actions and Transformations by creating RDD's in HDFS  • Strong experience in writing Perl scripts covering data feed handling, implementing business logic, communicating with web-services  • Used several Machine learning libraries like wxPython, numPY and matPlotLib.  • Developed rich user interface using CSS3, HTML5, JavaScript, AngularJS, JQueryand JSON.  • Created UI using JavaScript and HTML5/CSS.  • Designed and developed MySQL Stored Procedures and Shell Scripts for Data Import/Export and Conversions.  • Used Git and Jira for code submissions and review process.  • Build all database mapping classes using Django models and Cassandra.  • Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, OracleDB, PostgreSQL, and VMWare API calls.  • Developed applications especially in LINUX environment and familiar with all of its commands.  • Designed the NLP architecture to increase speed for big data.  • Worked on improving code for NLP for understanding solution.  • Added a united framework for entity detection in NLP for auto framework.  • Writing MapReduce job with Hadoop and MapReduce Java API. Analyzing bigdata by transforming, normalization and joining data.  • Implemented AWS IAM for managing the credentials of applications that runs on EC2 instances.  • Using Hive to be exploring and analyzing Bigdata to gain initial inside of data.  • Designed and Developed automation scripts using SeleniumWebDriver.  • Collaborated with internal teams to convert end user feedback into meaningful and improved solutions.  • Implemented AWS solutions using E2C, S3, RDS, EBS, Elastic Load Balancer, Auto-scaling groups.  • Resolved ongoing problems and accurately documented progress of a project.    Environment: Python/Scripting, Django, JavaScript, HTML5, XHTML, JQuery, JSON, XML, CSS3, MySQL, AngularJS, Cassandra, Git, LINUX, AWS, E2C, S3, RDS, EBS. Python Developer Intersil Corporation - Milpitas, CA November 2014 to February 2016 Description:Intersil is an American semiconductor company headquartered in Milpitas, California. As of February 2017, Intersil is a subsidiary of Renesas. The original Intersil was formed in August 1999 through the acquisition of the semiconductor business of Harris Corporation.    Responsibilities:  • Implemented different python libraries NumPy, SciPy, PyTables, matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas data frame and urllib2 in various tasks  • Responsible for using Django, a high level Python Web Framework to build powerful APIs and Web Applications for desktop and mobile users using Python, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Git, Command Line, Redis and Graphic Design Software's  • Developed programs to automate the testing of RAID controller firmware and utilities using Python, Java, Bash script, Windows command line.  • Deployed mircoservices2, including provisioning AWS environments using Ansible Playbooks.  • Followed Agile Methodologies and SCRUM Process.  • Used ETL/SSIS and T-SQL stored procedures to transfer data from OLTP databases to staging area and finally transfer into data marts and performed action in XML.  • Used Pentaho Data Integration Designer to create ETL transformations.  • Developed Complex transformations, Mapplets using Informatica to Extract, Transform and load (ETL) data into Data marts, Enterprise Data warehouse (EDW) and Operational data store (ODS).  • Worked on cross browser compilation and responsive web design using HTML5, CSS3 and Bootstrap  • Wrote Unit test cases for unit, integration, and functional tests, run automatically by Hudson/Jenkins in the builds triggered by each push to Git  • Migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity  • Worked on AJAX framework to transform datasets and data tables into HTTP-Serializable JSON strings  • Responsible for building scalable distributed data solutions using Hadoop  • Responsible for turning raw data into presentable, flexible and responsive web applications  • Using mongo DB to take care of the back-end calls with a lightning fast speed  • Installed and benchmarked Hadoop/HBase clusters for internal use  • Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis  • Wrote shell scripts for rolling day-to-day processes and it is automated  • Worked on Python Open Stack API's  • Worked on JavaScript MVC frameworks like AngularJS, OpenStack  • Used Django Rest framework for creating REST APIs and interacted with Jira using Jira Rest API  • Created entire applications using Python, Django, MySQL and Linux  • Used other packages such as Beautiful soup for data parsing  • Used Python modules such as requests, urllib, urllib2 for web crawling  • Worked on writing and reading data from csv and excel file formats in python.  • Built docker containers to sandbox python WSGI Apps.  • Used Apache CouchDB (NoSQL) in AWS Linux instance in parallel to RDS MySQL to store and analyze job market info.  • Used ETL (SSIS) to develop jobs for extracting, cleaning, transforming and loading data into data warehouse. Wrote PL/SQL stored procedures& triggers, cursors for implementing business rules and transformations.  • Held meetings with client and worked on the entire project with limited help from the client  • Performed testing on the applications using Robot Framework  • Exported/Imported data between different data sources using SQL Server Management Studio  • Worked on python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database    Environment: Python 2.7/3.0, Django, XML, Hadoop, AWS, ETL, HDFS, HBase, mongo DB, Agile, SCRUM, PyUnit, Apache, CSS, MySQL, DHTML, HTML, JavaScript, AngularJS, Shell Scripts, Git, Linux, Unix and Windows. Python Web Developer FBI Wind Down, Inc - St. Louis, MO March 2013 to October 2014 Description:The Company began in 1911 as International Shoe Company with the merger of Roberts, Johnson & Rand Shoe Company and Peters Shoe Company. In 1966 the company changed its name to Interco as the result of diversification, and once the company exited the shoe business, adopted the name Furniture Brands International.    Responsibilities:  • Created a highly-scalable, distributed system for running Web applications and Web services by working with architects and developers and ensuring the implementation of Restful Web services and API design.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Used data types like dictionaries, tuples and object-oriented concepts-based inheritance features for making complex algorithms of networks.  • Integrated Hibernate ORM with Spring-Hibernate framework to facilitate DML and DQL queries and represent object-database mapping.  • Creating restful web services for Catalog and Pricing with Django MVT, Jersey, MySQL, and MongoDB.  • Installed and configured MySQL on LINUX and Windows Environment.  • Managed datasets using data frames and MySQL, queried MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector MySQL dB package to retrieve information.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Carried out various mathematical operations for calculation purpose using Python libraries numpy.  • Successfully migrated the code from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity using Django and experience in Object Oriented Design.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Used jQuery to make the HTML, DHTML and CSS code interact with the JavaScript functions to add dynamism to the web pages at the client side.  • Involved in designing mobile search application system requirements and coded back-end and front-end in Python.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django, HTML, CSS, MySQL JavaScript, Jquery, wxPython, numpy, matPlotLib, MySQL, PyQT, MVW, DOM, Shell Scripting, JSON, REST, Apache Web Server, Django, SQL, LINUX, Windows, and python libraries. Jr. Python Developer Computer Systems Network Limited October 2011 to February 2013 Description:Computer Network Systems (CNS) is accredited with SEI CMMi Level 3 standards for its Development and Maintenance. I was part of the team responsible for providing Software Development and Maintenance for CNS clients.    Responsibilities:  • Created Python scripts for data access and analysis (Scripts, Data Feeds, XLS, FIXML) to aid in process and system monitoring, and reporting.  • Closely analyzed the database tables using sequel pro tool of MySQL to resolve integrity issues.  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Worked on object-oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python and Linux.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python.  • Improved code reuse and performance by making effective use of various design patterns.  • Developed JavaScript API used by clients to integrate the application with other modules.  • Developed page layouts, Navigations and presented designs and concepts to the clients and the management review.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS, JQuery and JavaScript.  • Debugging and testing of the applications & fine-tuning performance. Provided maintenance support in production environment.    Environment: Java, Python, J2EE, MySQL, Linux, AJAX, HTML, CSS, UNIX shell, JavaScript, SQL / Web Developer Exide Life Insurance - Bengaluru, Karnataka October 2009 to September 2011 Description: Exide Life Insurance Company Limited, is a 100% Indian owned life insurance Company, owned by the Exide Industries. Exide Life Insurance distributes its products through multi-channels.    Responsibilities:  • Setup new SQL Server instances.  • Involved in the life-cycle of the project, i.e., requirements gathering, design, development, testing and maintenance of the database.  • Performed query optimization and tuning, debugging and maintenance of stored procedures.  • Developed SQL Server objects such as tables, materialized views, clustered and non-clustered indexes, stored procedures, cursors, triggers and constraints.  • Used System tables and stored procedures to retrieve metadata.  • Provided database security by using role base authorization on accessing data.  • Performed troubleshooting operations on the production servers.  • Monitored SQL Server jobs, and developed queries to perform database operations.  • Administered the database using SQLServer Enterprise Manager.    Environment: HTML, CSS, jQuery, JavaScript, MySQL, Linux. Education Bachelor's Skills DATABASE (8 years), JAVASCRIPT (8 years), LINUX (8 years), MYSQL (8 years), jQuery (7 years), Python, Django, C, Java, Flask, AWS, Rest, Restful, PHP, Numpy Additional Information Technical Skills:    Python Libraries Report Lab, NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib, HTTPLib2, Urllib2, Beautiful Soup, Pickle, Pandas, PyPI, PySpark, Pygit.    Programming Skills Python, C, C++ and Java, Shell Script, & Perl.  Web Technologies Django, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JSON, jQuery, AJAX, Node JS, and Bootstrap.  Frameworks Django, spring, Angular JS and Flask.  IDE's PyCharm, Sublime, Eclipse, Spyder and NetBeans, Atom, Sublime Text, Visual Studio.  Database Oracle SQL, SQLite, MySQL, PL/SQL, PostgreSQL.    Operating Systems LINUX, UNIX, WINDOWS & MAC.  Cloud Technology AWS.  Web Services Nginx, Apache Tomcat, SOAP, Apache Kafka, AWS, Amazon EC2, REST.  Network Protocols TCP/IP, HTTP, DHCP, SNMP, SMPT.  Servers Apache Tomcat and Web Logic.  Version Control Tools CVS, Git, GitHub and SVN.  Development Process Waterfall, Agile and Scrum.  Bug Tracking Tool JIRA.  Deployment Tool Heroku and Jenkins.