Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - Clear-Switch Philadelphia, PA, PA • Around 8 Years of experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Testing, Customization, Bug fixes, Enhancement, Support and Implementation of various stand-alone, client-server enterprise applications.  • Experienced in MVW frameworks like Flask/Django, Angular JS, Java Script, JQuery and Node.js.  • Proficient in Front end development experience using HTML, XML, CSS, DOJO, Bootstrap JQuery, JSON and JavaScript.  • Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, Python/PHP) Architecture.  • Experienced in software development in Python (libraries used: libraries- Beautiful Soup, Numpy, SciPy, Matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas data frame, network, urllib2, MySQL DB for database connectivity) and IDEs - sublime text, Spyder, PyCharm, emacs.  • Experience in UNIX shell scripting (file validations, file downloads, workflow executions).  • Extensive knowledge in developing web-based applications, web services and analytical programming using Python, Django, PHP, C++, Shell Scripting, UNIX, Linux, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, , JavaScript and JQuery.  • Good Knowledge in Objected Oriented Concepts(OOP), Standard Template Library, Smart Pointers, Data Structures and Design patterns.  • Extensive use of Linux OS (Debian, Ubuntu, SUSE Linux, Red Hat Linux, Fedora), SSH, GIT, Eclipse/PyCharm, Flask/Django.  • Good knowledge of server Apache Tomcat, Web logic, Glass glow.  • Hands on experience in SVN, Git, JIRA, BugZilla.  • Experienced in writing SQL Queries, Stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, cursors, triggers and PostgreSQL database.  • Good knowledge in various stages of SDLC (Software Development Life Cycle), Software Testing Life Cycle (STLC) and QA methodologies from project definition to post-deployment documentation.  • Good Exposure in maintaining various version controls.  • Developed ColdFusion Components, custom tags and modified CF Objects.  • Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache.  • Worked in agile and waterfall methodologies with high quality deliverables delivered on-time.  • Involved in Unit testing/ Test driven Development(TDD), Load Testing and Integration testing.  • Exceptional problem solving and sound decision making capabilities, recognized by associates for quality of data, alternative solutions, and confident, accurate, decision making.  • Excellent analytical and communication skills with ability to interact with individuals at all levels. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Python Developer Clear-Switch - Philadelphia, PA January 2017 to Present Clear-switch is a startup company vying to be a pioneer in developing web and mobile applications serving consumers of retail energy in deregulated markets.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web based solution.  • Developed custom screens using HTML5, JavaScript, JQuery, Bootstrap and Angular.  • Developed monitoring and notification tools using python.    • Involved in business logic discussions and use case design.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Created Data tables utilizing MySQL utilized Jinja to access data and display it in the front end.  • Used Python based GUI components for the front end functionality such as selection criteria.  • Implemented navigation rules for the application and page outcomes, written controllers using annotations.  • Written queries in MySQL and Native SQL.  • Created test harness to enable comprehensive testing utilizing Python.  • Involved in front end and utilized Bootstrap for page design.  • Worked in an agile development environment.  • Used GitHub for version control.  • Used JQuery and Ajax calls for transmitting Json data objects between frontend and controllers.    Environment: Python 3.0, PyCharm, Django, JQuery, MySQL, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Ajax, Web Services, JSON, Bootstrap, Jinja, Angular.JS Flask, SQL Workbench. Python Developer Northern Trust Bank - Chicago, IL October 2015 to December 2016 Northern Trust Bank offers a variety of banking products and financial solutions like personal banking, small business, retail banking, home financing and equity loans, asset management, wealth management, corporate and investment banking and credit card services to its customers. Involved with the Insurance Department and provide web support and development of the online portal handling the transactions.  Responsibilities:  • Worked with team of developers on python applications for RISK management.  • Made Django web based apps for Insurance premium calculations  • Designed the architecture of the hardware environments and methodology of the code  • Experienced in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM Process.  • Job scheduling, batch-job scheduling, process control, forking and cloning of jobs and checking the status of the jobs using shell scripting.  • With using of python OS module on Unix environment, made job cloning and forking.  • Automated data extraction process from legacy system and used 'Nose' Testing framework with Assertion module to testing many automated process.  • Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis.  • Participated in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Used Numpy for Numerical analysis for Insurance premium.  • Develop weekly, monthly nightly job process through Unix shell scripting.  • Thoroughly used Unit Test python library for testing many python programs and block of codes.  • Also have rich experience on testing REST Full API like Twilio, Face book and Twitter.    Environment: Python 2.7/3, Django 1.5, C++, XML, Java, MYSQL, Apache, CSS, MySQL, ORACLE, DHTML, HTML, JavaScript, Shell Scripts, Linux, Unix and Windows. Python Developer Affinion Group - Dublin, OH April 2014 to September 2015 The product provides Credit Reporting, Monitoring and Identity Theft Protection to users registered with various banks in USA. The main scope of this project was to enhance the existing Privacy Guard product with new features and migrate all the members to a new Credit Report vendor FAMS (First Advantage Management Services). New features like Quarterly Update Reports, Score Tracker, Score Alert, and Hit Monitors were added to the System and new batch module was developed for processing and sending member's data to FAMS.  Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Worked with millions of database records on a daily basis, finding common errors and bad data patterns and fixing them.  • Exported/Imported data between different data sources using SQL Server Management Studio.  • Maintained program libraries, users' manuals and technical documentation.  • Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL package.  • Carried out various mathematical operations for calculation purpose using python libraries.  • Built various graphs for business decision making using Python Matplotlib library.  • Fetched twitter feeds for certain important keyword using python-twitter library.  • Used Python library Beautiful Soup for web scrapping to extract data for building graphs.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  • Implement code in python to retrieve and manipulate data.  • Also used Bootstrap as a mechanism to manage and organize the html page layout.    Environment: Python, Django, HTML/CSS, MS SQL Server, MySQL, JavaScript, Eclipse, Linux, Shell Scripting, JQuery, SVN, Angular.JS, Jira. Python Developer Woodbury Insurance - Woodland Hills, CA December 2012 to March 2014 Worked on merging of systems and data of Woodbury Insurance with AIG after AIG acquired Woodbury. Worked on enhancement of UI and business logic to incorporate features of Woodbury into AIG system. Also worked on merging the Data from two systems.  Responsibilities:  • Responsible for the design and development of a web-based, distributed risk modeling application built to run on the global Manufacturing proprietary platform across multiple lines of business. Participated in the development of application architecture and blueprints to define application components, platforms, interfaces and development tools.  • Responsible for analyzing various cross-functional, multi-platform applications systems enforcing python, best practices and provide guidance in making long term architectural design decisions.  • Involved in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile).  • Worked extensively with Bootstrap, JavaScript, and JQuery to optimize the user experience.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the JQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Designed and implemented Sandra NoSQL database read/write/search function.  • Built development environment with JIRA, Stash/Git  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.    Environment: Python, Django, JQuery, MySQL, Oracle, Linux, Django, Shell Scripting, HTML5/CSS, Red hat Linux, Apache. Python Developer Orion Software Services January 2011 to October 2012 This is a Web based project, developed for providing services to their clients at different places. This application gathers the information, which is maintained in various service stations. The information at a service center is technically processed based on the warranty. The processed information is send to the hub for placing the parts order for replacement. This project is of two modules Customer Management and service provider's management. This project also monitors and maintains the manifesto regarding the details of the inventory.  Responsibilities:  ? Involved in the Design, development, test, deploy and maintenance of the website.  ? Used Python based GUI components for the front end functionality such as selection criteria.  ? Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python.  • Created Servlets and Beans to implement Business Logic.  • Used SAX/DOM Parser for parsing the data to Oracle Database.  • Designed and created backend data access modules using PL/SQL stored procedures and Oracle.  • Designed object model, data model, tables, constraints, necessary stored procedures, functions, triggers, and packages for Oracle Database.  • Developed and executed User Acceptance Testing portion of test plan.  • Debugging Software for Bugs.    Environment: Python, DOM, HTML, CSS, SQL, PLSQL, Oracle and Windows. Software Developer ARIS Global - Bengaluru, Karnataka September 2009 to December 2010 This was application to sort thru the Clinical trial data and arrange them in readable format so the Scientist could make valid deductions from it.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in designing, constructing and documenting various object oriented applications using UML, Rational Rose.  • Designed and developed the presentation layer/client end using HTML, XML, DHTML and JSP.  • Servlets were used as an application layer to provide the main logic of the application and the interaction with databases using JDBC API.  • Wrote SQL queries and Oracle stored procedures for accessing and manipulating the data in the database.  • Oracle 8i and SQL Server were used as the database.  • Client side validations were done using JavaScript.  • Used SVN for version control.  • Used VI as Editor for writing the coding in the UNIX Environment.    Environment: Java, C++, JDBC, JSP, JavaScript, SQL Server, Oracle, UNIX and Windows NT. Education Bachelor's Skills CSS (7 years), HTML (7 years), PYTHON (7 years), JAVASCRIPT (6 years), SQL (5 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Languages Python 3.x,2.7/2.4, C++, C, Shell Script, SQL  Framework Django, Flask, MVC Framework  Databases MySQL, Sqlite3, Oracle, PostgreSQL  Web Technologies AJAX, JavaScript, PHP, JQuery, JSON, AngularJS, HTML, HTML5, CSS, CSS3, DHTML, XHTML and XML  Versioning Tools Git, SVN, CVS, TFS,  Applications/Web Servers Apache, HTTP, IIS, Tomcat  Operating systems Linux/Unix, Windows-98/NT/2000/XP/2003/Vista/2007  Software Development Lifecycle Agile Methodology (Scrum), Waterfall, Rup  Graphic Editors Adobe Photoshop CS4/CS3, Adobe Illustrator CS3, SVN Eclipse, Macromedia SharePoint, Dreamweaver, FrontPage  Bug Tracking Tools Jira, BugZilla, Rational Clear Quest