Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Comcast Philadelphia, PA • Have 9+ Years of experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Testing, Customization, Bug fixes, Enhancement, Support and Implementation of various web, stand-alone, client-server enterprise applications using Python, Django in various domains.  • Experienced with full software development life-cycle (SDLC), architecting scalable platforms, object oriented programming (OOPs), database design and agile methodologies.  • Experience in developing web-based applications using Python 3, Django 1.10/9.  • Good experience of software development in Python (libraries used: Beautiful Soup, numpy, scipy, matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas data frame, network, urllib2, MySQL dB for database connectivity) and IDEs - sublime text, Spyder, pycharm, emacs.  • Extensive experience in system analysis, design, development and implementation of web based and client/server application using HTML, Angular JS, Bootstrap, underscore JS, Node JS, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, XML, Python, Django.  • Good experience in developing web applications implementing MVT/MVC architecture using Django, Flask, Webapp2 and spring web application frameworks.  • Experienced in MVC frameworks like Django, Angular JS, Java Script, JQuery and Node.js.  • Experienced in web applications development using Django/ Python, Flask/ Python.AndNode.js, Angular.js, while using HTML/CSS/JS for server-side rendered applications.  • Worked closely with designer, tightly integrating Flash into the CMS with the use of Flashvars stored in the Django models. Also created XML with Django to be used by the Flash.  • Good Experience in Linux Bash scripting and following PEP Guidelines in Python.  • Using Django evolution and manual SQL modifications, was able to modify Django models while retaining all data, while site was in production mode.  • Experienced with databases using ORMs/DOMs for integrating with MySQL, Postgres, Neo4J, MongoDB, and Cassandra SQLite. Also, experienced with writing custom queries through database connectors.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgresSQL with complete data integrity.  • Architecture, size (Capacity planning), Data modeling, implementation and support Cassandra Clusters including install, configure and upgrade DSE v3/4 (Cassandra v 1/2.x) and OpsCenter v 4.x/5.x on Bare metal and Cloud including AWS (Amazon Web Services).  • Extensive experience in designing MongoDB multi-sharded cluster and monitoring with MMS.  • Good Knowledge of web services using SOAP and REST protocols.  • Used Node.js as a proxy to interact with Rest services and also interacting with Database.  • Excellent Experience and knowledge in using XML, SOAP, web Service for inter operable software applications.  • Good knowledge of version control software - CVS, GitHub  • Experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Skilled in debugging/troubleshooting issues in complex applications.  • Excellent experience with Python development under Linux OS and Mac OS (Debian, Ubuntu, Cent OS, RedHatLinux, Fedora).  • Experience in using SVN & Team Foundation Server (TFS).  • Experience in Database Administration, development, design, maintenance and production support of relational databases, business applications, new server setup, MySQL Server installation, upgrade, migration. Work Experience Python Developer Comcast - Philadelphia, PA May 2017 to Present Description:  Comcast deliver services like internet, cable television services to business technology for customers in different divisions. It has been connecting customers with reliable, high-quality products and services while centering customers. Provides internet, cable television services to customers and also it is home telephone service provider.    Responsibilities:  • Worked on development and enhancement of automated tools for testing, integration and global application development. This includes detail description of availability. Also enhanced the check out and registration process.  • Wrote scripts to integrate API's with third party applications. Python/Django based web application, PostgreSQL, and integrations with third party email, messaging, storage services.  • Developed Python based API (RESTful Web Service) to track the events and perform analysis using Django.  Involved in development using Python, bug fixing and unit testing of the layout commands.  • Wrote Python normalizations scripts to find duplicate data in different environments.  • Wrote scripts to Import, Export data to CSV, EXCEL formats from different environments using Python, and made a Celery action using REST API call.  • Integrating the front-end with middleware using the Django framework and transferring the data to backend(Spark) and posting and getting the response.  • Involved in writing the RESTAPI for the communicating with the Spark.  • Wrote the components using the React js for designing the UI and integrating with the middleware.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django , CSS, HTML, JavaScript libraries like ReactJS.  • Involved in front end and utilized Bootstrap and React.js for page design.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Worked on data conversion scripts REST, JSON, and CRUD scripts for API Integration.  • Designed the front end of the application using Python, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON and JQuery.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Carried out various mathematical operations for calculation purpose using Python libraries numpy.  • Behave operates in feature files written by Business Analyst and with behavior scenarios with it.  • Developed Python OO Design code for manufacturing quality, monitoring, logging, and debugging code optimization.  • Used Python to place data into JSON files for testing Django Websites.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web based solution.  • Integrating the application with Django REST framework for building the API's.  • Working on SQL stored procedures that are used to access that data and deploy to SQL server database.  • Recording of scripts using SOAPUI and validate through co-relation and parameterization.  • Created entire application using Python, Django, MySQL and Linux.  • Held meetings with client and worked all alone for the entire project with limited help from the client.  • Utilized PyUnit, the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications.    Environment: Python 2, Django 1.12, MySQL, Python , MongoDB, AJAX, SOAP, REST, JavaScript, Bootstrap, PyCharm Python Developer TDS Telecom - Madison, WI October 2016 to May 2017 Description:  TDS Telecom provides innovative voice, internet, entertainment services, and leading-edge business technology for customers in rural and suburban communities nationwide.It has been connecting customers with reliable, high-quality products and services while centering on delighting customers.It provides internet, entertainment services to both wireline and cable order customers.    Responsibilities:  • Develop the existing application to enhance the features using the Django Framework and improvethe performance using SOAPWeb services.  • Involved in the Analysis, Design and Development of the application.  • Wrote scripts to integrate API's with third party applications. Python/Django based web application, PostgreSQL, and integrations with third party email, messaging, storage services.  • Wrote Python normalizations scripts to find duplicate data in different environments.  • Wrote scripts to Import, Export data to CSV, EXCEL formats from different environments using Python, and made a Celery action using REST API call.  • Working with DBA to improve the performance of the ETL Process.  • AWS Administrator account and credentials, which will allow you to create other users, groups, and roles within the Identity & Access Management (IAM) Service.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, CSS, HTML, JavaScript and Jquery.  • Develop ETL process using Informatica to load Dimension and Fact tables.  • Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) for improved efficiency of storage and fast access.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Involved in front end and utilized Bootstrap and Angular.js for page design.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • The Data flow diagrams ranged from OLTP systems to staging to Data warehouse.  • Worked with behave for simple test cases and running them.Using Given, when and then cases for testing the behavior.  • Wrote Python scripts interacting with Google Cloud Storage, DataStore, AWS RDS, S3 and Redshift.  • Created Python and Bash tools to increase efficiency of call center application system and operations.  • Worked on data conversion scripts REST, JSON, and CRUD scripts for API Integration.  • Used ETL Data Warehousing using Informatica Client Tools (Designer, Workflow Manager, Workflow Monitor, Repository Manager and Repository Administration Console).  • Developing Python Framework using Django to perform scan software unit monitoring.  • Designed the front end of the application using Python, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON and JQuery.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Carried out various mathematical operations for calculation purpose using Python libraries numpy.  • Used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Behave operates in feature files written by Business Analyst and with behavior scenarios with it.  • Developed Python OO Design code for manufacturing quality, monitoring, logging, and debugging code optimization.  • Responsible for analysis, design, development and integration of Market Risk applications with FLEX/JAVA/ PYTHON.  • Used Python to place data into JSON files for testing Django Websites.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web based solution.  • Used TFS for version control during development and defect tracking.  • Wrote Python routines to log into the websites and fetch data for selected options.  • Developed proof of concept app using Python Cubes.  • Created entire application using Python, Django, MySQL and Linux.  • Used Python modules such as requests, urllib, urllib2 for web crawling.  • Held meetings with client and worked all alone for the entire project with limited help from the client.  • Utilized PyUnit, the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications.  • Integrating the application with Django REST framework for building the API's.  • Working on SQL stored procedures that are used to access that data and deploy to SQL server database.  • Recording of scripts using SOAPUI and validate through co-relation and parameterization.  • Security measures that the customer implements and operates, related to the security of customer content and applications that make use of AWS services.  • Created a Git repository and added the project to GitHub.  • Managed requirements and tasks using JIRA.  • Evaluated JSON based REST, SOAP Web services on Amazon Web services (AWS) along with EBS and RDS.  Environment: Python 3.3, Django 1.10, MySQL, Python Scripting, MongoDB, AJAX, SOAP, REST, JQuery, JavaScript, Bootstrap, PyCharm, AWS (EC2, S3, RDS) Python Developer Centence Corporation March 2015 to September 2016 Description:  Centene Corporation, is a diversified, multi-national healthcare enterprise that provides a portfolio of services to government-sponsored healthcare programs, focusing on under-insured and uninsured individuals. It also contracts with other healthcare and commercial organizations to provide specialty services including behavioral health management, care management software, correctional healthcare services, dental benefits management, telehealth services.etc.    Responsibilities:  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Utilized Python libraries wxPython, numPY, Twisted and matPlotLib.  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture  • Creation of Python scripts for data access and analysis (Scripts, Data Feeds, XLS, FIXML) to aid in process and system monitoring, and reporting.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python.  • Parsers written in Python for extracting useful data from the design database.  • Creating restful web services for Catalog and Pricing with Django VT andMySQL.  • Representation of the system in hierarchy form by defining the components, subcomponents using Python and developed set of library functions over the system based on the user needs.  • Generated graphical reports using python package Numpy and matPlotLib.  • Used Python based GUI components for the front end functionality such as selection criteria. Administration of dedicated collocated RHEL 4 machine and configured complex Apache configuration files.  • Proficient in writing SQL Queries, Stored procedures, functions, Packages, tables, views, triggers using relational databases like PostgreSQL.  • Used version controland added support for Amazon AWSS3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into AmazonCloud.  • Designed and maintained databases using Python and developed Python based API (RESTful Web Service) using Flask, SQLAlchemy and PostgreSQL.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Working on several python packages like NumPy, Beautiful Soup, SQLAlchemy, PyTables etc.  • Involve in the development of the application using Python 3.3, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JSON and Jquery.  • Maintained and managed Puppet modules responsible for deploying Openstack and other Configuring and managing Openstack components such as keystone, nova, neutron, glance, swift, Heat.  • Use python packages like cx_oracle, pyodbc and MySQL dB for working with Oracle, SQL Server and MySQL DB respectively.  • Design front end using UI, HTML, Bootstrap, Node JS, underscore JS, Angular JS, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation  • Develop consumer-based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML, behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pair based programming.  • Wrote Python OO Design code for manufacturing quality, monitoring, logging, and debugging code optimization.  • Build Back-end support for Application from ground up using Python, Shell scripts & Perl.    Environment: Python 3.4/2.7, Django 1.9, Python scripting, NoSql, MongoDB, MySQL, AJAX, SOAP, REST, JQuery, JavaScript, Bootstrap, AWS (EC2, S3, RDS). Python Developer State of New York - New York, NY November 2013 to February 2015 Description:  The objective of the Actionable Dashboard project is to build a decision support system for health. It leverages all the sources of doctors, specialist and course data (e.g., practical exercise performance; individual, state and national results, specilistdemographic and behavioral data, notes, performance metrics, etc.), coupled with advanced analytics, to deliver actionable dashboards with more-timely activities.    Responsibilities:  • Created server-monitoring daemon with Psutil, supported by Django app for analytics, which I created. Also researched big data solutions with Cassandradatabase.  • Created a Python/Django based web application using Python scripting for data processing, MySQL for the database, and HTML/CSS/JQuery and High Charts for data visualization of the served pages.  • Strong Socket programming experience in Python. Implemented complex networking operations like raceroute, SMTP mail server and web server.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML, BIG DATA to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Creation of Python scripts for data access and analysis (Scripts, Data Feeds, XLS, FIXML) to aid in process and system monitoring, and reporting.  • Rewrite existing Java application in Python module to deliver certain format of data.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python.  • Involved in Developing Restful services using Python Django framework.  • Developing web-based open stack applications using Python and Django for large dataset analysis.  • Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  • Developed Simple to complex Map/reduce streaming jobs using Python language using Hive and Pig.  • Used Test driven approach for developing the application and Implemented the unit tests using Python Unit test framework.  • Used existing Deal Model in Python to inherit and create object data structure for regulatory reporting.  • Used standard Python modules e.g. csv, robotparser, itertools, pickle, jinja2, lxml for development.  • Automated RabbitMQ cluster installations and configuration using Python/Bash.  • Used PandasAPI to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Experience in using various version control systems like CVS, Gitand Amazon EC2 and deployment using Heroku.  • Carried out various mathematical operations for calculation purpose using python libraries.  • Built various graphs for business decision making using Pythonmatplotlib library.  • Fetched twitter feeds for certain important keyword using python-twitter library.  • Used Python library Beautiful Soup for web scrapping to extract data for building graphs.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Pythonbug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.    Environment: Python, Django, Cassandra, RabbitMQ, Vugen, SoapUI, Node.JS, REST API, HTTP, TCP, Bash, PyDev, Spyder, Agile, GitHub. Python Developer SIM Solutions Pvt. Ltd - Hyderabad, Telangana October 2011 to October 2013 Description:  SIM Solutions Pvt. Ltdis a medical device development. We develop medical devices and provide product development services to firms.    Responsibilities:  • Translated the customer requirements into design specifications and ensured that the requirements translate into software solution.  • Application was based on service oriented architecture and used Python 2.5, Django 1.5, JSF 2, Spring 2, Ajax, HTML, CSS for the frontend.  • Designed the front end of the application using Python, Java, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON and JQuery. Worked on backend of the application, mainly using Active Records.  • Involved in the design, development and testing phases of application using AGILE methodology.  • Developed and designed an API (RESTful Web Service).  • Designed and maintained databases using Python and developed Python based API (RESTful Web Service) using Flask, SQLAlchemy and PostgreSQL.  • Tested and implemented applications built using Python.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, ROBOT framework, Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Automated Regression analysis for determining fund returns based on index returns ( Python/Excel).  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures, trigger and function on MYSQL.  • Developed server based web traffic statistical analysis tool using Flask, Pandas.  • Implemented and tested python based web applications interacting with MySQL.  • Developed dynamic interaction page on .net MSvisualbasic-2014, using SQL developer tools.  • Simple web app for reviewing sitcoms that gives users the ability to view, add, review, up/down vote, search, etc.  • Involved in doing AGILE (SCRUM) practices and planning of sprint attending daily agile (SCRUM) meetings and SPRINT retrospective meetings to produce quality deliverables within time.    Environment:Linux, Python, Mod Python, PHP, MySQL, JavaScript, Ajax, Shell Script, HTML, CSS Java Developer SUNERA TECHNOLOGIES - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2010 to September 2011 Description:  Sunera Technologies is wide range of banking products and financial services for corporate and retail customers through a variety of delivery channels and specialized subsidiaries in the areas of investment banking, life, non-life insurance, venture capital and asset management.    Responsibilities:  • Developed application service components and configured beans using Spring IOC, creation of Hibernate mapping files and generation of database schema.  • Implemented modules using Core Java APIs, Java collection, Threads, XML, and integrating the modules.  • Developed Reporting framework using JAVA and J2EE which will generate daily, monthly and yearly reports and prepared different framework design documents.  • Created tables, views, Types, triggers, complex join queries, stored procedures, and functions and modifications to existing database structure as required for addition of new features using SQL developer.  • Involved in web designing using HTML, XHTML, CSS 2, JQuery, JavaScript extensively used Table less Design in CSS for positioning.  • Used MVC Architecture in spring framework and implemented custom tag libraries.  • Generated Use case diagrams, Activity flow diagrams, Class diagrams and Object diagrams in the design phase.  • Used Java/J2EE Design Patterns such as Business Delegate, Session Facade, singleton in the project extensively, which facilitates clean distribution of roles and responsibilities across various layers of processing.  • Configured Hibernate second level cache using EHCache to reduce the number of hits to the configuration table data.  • Extensively Used Ant tool to build and configure J2EE applications and used Log4J for logging in the application.  • Implemented client side validations for Search and Security modules using JavaScript and Validation Framework.  • Responsible for design and implementation of various modules of the application using Struts-Spring-Hibernate architecture.  • Automated the HTML and JSP pages indexing process of search module using ApacheAnt tool and singleton design pattern.  • Tested JSPs and Servlets used in search, security and scheduler modules using Cactus API.  • Done extensive coding using Java, J2EE for enhancements and bug fixes in agile development environment.    Environment:Java, J2EE, JSP, Struts, Hibernate, HTML, Eclipse, Apache Ant, JavaScript, JQuery, Oracle 10g, Windows XP Skills CSS (8 years), HTML (8 years), DJANGO (6 years), MYSQL (6 years), PYTHON (6 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:  • Primary Languages: Python, Java, C,C#,C++  • Python Libraries: numpy, scipy, matplotlib, Pandas data frame, urllib2  • Frameworks: Bootstrap, Django, Node.JS, Flask, Pyramid  • Database: Sqlite3, MSSQL, MySQL, Mongo DB, Oracle 11g,NoSQL  • IDE's: PyCharm, Eclipse, MS Visual Studio  • Deployment tools: MS Azure, Amazon Web Services (EC2, S3, EBS, ELB, SES)  • Web Technologies: HTML, CSS, DHTML, XML, Java Script    • Operating systems: Windows, Mac, Fedora Linux, Red hat Linux, Cent OS  • SDLC Methods: SCRUM, Agile  • Bug Tracking Tools: JIRA, Bugzilla.  • Version Controls: SVN, Github, Git