Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - CLEAR-SWITCH FL • Over 6+ years of experience as a Web/Application Developer and coding with analytical programming using Python, Django, C++.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django,QT, C++, XML, CSS, HTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, Python/PHP) Architecture.  • Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  • Excellent experience with Python development under Linux OS (Debian, Ubuntu, SUSE Linux, RedHat Linux, Fedora).  • Good knowledge in various stages of SDLC (Software Development Life Cycle), Software Testing Life Cycle (STLC) and QA methodologies from project definition to post-deployment documentation.  • Experienced with Python frameworks likeWebapp2 and, Flask.  • Good experience in Python,Django, Zope, Pyramid Framework.  • Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML,CSS and JavaScript.  • Familiar with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services.  • Good knowledge of web services with protocols SOAP and REST.  • Expertise in designing, developing middleware components for software in C/C++ using STL, multithreading, data structures and design patterns.  • Experience with Unit testing/ Test driven Development(TDD) and Load Testing.  • Strong understanding of Agile and Scrum Software Development Life Cycle Methodologies.  • Experienced in working on Application Servers like WebSphere, WebLogic, Tomcat, Web Servers like Apache server, NGINX and Integrated Development Environments like PyCharm, Eclipse, MyEclipse, JDeveloper and RAD.  • Proficient in SQL databases MS SQL, MySQL, Oracle and no-SQL databases MongoDB and Cassandra.  • Well versed in writing unit test cases and selenium test cases.  • Demonstrated ability to work well with a wide variety of people at various levels, foster cooperation and collaboration among individuals in the work unit, help team resolve conflicts constructively and ability and willingness to communicate when help is needed. A Self starter with a positive attitude, willingness to learn new concepts and acceptance of challenges.  • Highly motivated, result oriented professional with a short learning curve and strong communication skills.  • Hands-on experience in writing and reviewing requirements, architecture documents, test plans, design documents, quality analysis and audits. Work Experience Python Developer CLEAR-SWITCH - Philadelphia, PA November 2015 to Present PHILADELPHIA, PA. Nov 15 - Till Date  Clear-switch is a startup company vying to be a pioneer in developing web and mobile applications serving consumers of retail energy in deregulated markets.  Role: Python Developer  Responsibilities:  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Pythonin order to build an interactive web based solution.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Build all database mapping classes using Django models.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Developed custom screens using HTML5, JavaScript, JQuery, Bootstrap, Jinja and Angular.js.  • Developed monitoring and notification tools using Python.  • Involved in business logic discussions and use case design.  • Used Couchbase Python SDK to build applications that use Couchbase Server.  • Created Data tables utilizing MySQL utilized Jinja to access data and display it in the front end.  • Used Python based GUI components for the front end functionality such as selection criteria.  • Implemented navigation rules for the application and page outcomes, written controllers using annotations.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Created test harness to enable comprehensive testing utilizing Python.  • Involved in front end and utilized Bootstrap for page design.  • Created backend database T-SQL stored procedures and Jasper Reports. Created and updated complex views and stored procedures in PostgreSQL.  • Worked in an agile development environment.  • Used Github for version control.  • Used JQuery and AJAX calls for transmitting Json data objects between frontend and controllers.  • Written queries in MySQL and Native SQL.  • Designed and Setting up of environment of MongoDB with shards and replicasets. (Dev/Test and Production).  • Participated in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.    Environment: Python, PyCharm, JQuery, MySQL, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Ajax, Web Services, Pandas, JSON, Angular.js, Bootstrap, Jinja, Flask, MongoDB, SQL Workbench. Python Developer Northern Trust Bank - Chicago, IL September 2014 to October 2015 Chicago, IL.Sep 14 - Oct 15  Northern Trust Bank offers a variety of banking products and financial solutions like personal banking, small business, retail banking, home financing and equity loans, asset management, wealth management, corporate and investment banking and credit card services to its customers. Involved with the Insurance Department and provide web support and development of the online portal handling the transactions.  Role: Python Developer  Responsibilities:  • Work with team of developers on Python applications for RISK management.  • Developed programs to automate the testing of RAID controller firmware and utilities usingPython 2.7, Java, Bash script and Windows command line, AutoIt, AutoHotKey, Java Script and C.  • Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis.  • Worked on JavaScript MVC Framework like Angular.js.  • Worked on Python Open stack API's.  • Developed internal auxiliary web apps using Python Flask framework withCSS / HTML framework.  • Created entire application using Python, Django, MySQL and Linux.  • Worked with Open stack Command-line client.  • Worked extensively with Bootstrap, Javascript, and JQuery to optimize the user experience.  • Performed testing using Django's Test Module.  • Used other packages such as Beautifulsoup for data parsing.  • Involved in Web-services backend development using Python (CherryPy, Django, SQLAlchemy).  • Created a Git repository and added the project to GitHub.  • UtilizedPyUnitthe Python unit test framework, for all Python applications.  • Exported/Imported data between different data sources using SQL Server Management Studio.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Designed and implemented Cassandra NoSQL database read/write/search function.  • Created backend database T-SQL stored procedures and Jasper Reports.  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile).  • Proficient in Software Design and Development with a solid background in Developing.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.5, MySQL, Zope, Angular.JS, Pandas, Flash, PyUnit, Open Stack, HTML, CSS, JQuery, JavaScript, Apache, Jira, Linux, Git, Cassandra, Windows, Linux. Python Developer Trustwave Holdings - Chicago, IL 2013 to August 2014 Chicago, ILJul 13 - Aug 14  Regulatory and compliance issues gave rise to high volume of intercompany transactions. Aim of this project was to streamline of trade processing systems and reduce volume of intercompany transactions for US Equities, Foreign Exchange (FX) and Credit and Equity Derivative group and phase II of project was to support the finance organization for budget forecast and actual reporting using the Python-based web apps.  Role: Python Developer  Responsibilities:  • Participated in the complete SDLC process and used PHP to develop website functionality.  • Coding in LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and PHP) environment.  • Developed GUI HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript(JQuery).  • Built application logic using Python 2.7.  • Used the Django Framework to develop the application.  • Used Django APIs for database access.  • Rewrite existing Java application in Python module to deliver certain format of data  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Utilized PyQt to provide GUI for the user to create, modify and view reports based on client data.  • Used Python based GUI components for the front end functionality such as selection criteria.  • Developed monitoring and notification tools using Python.  • Participated in requirement gathering and worked closely with the architect in designing and modeling.  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures on MYSQL.    Environment: Python 2.6/2.7, JavaScript, Django Framework 1.3, CSS, SQL, MySQL, LAMP, JQuery, Adobe Dreamweaver, Apache web server. Python Developer OMGEO LLC - New York, NY November 2012 to June 2013 NEW YORK, NY. Nov 12 - Jun 13  Omgeo was formed in 2001 as a wholly owned, global joint venture between the Depository Trust & Clearing Corporation (DTCC) and Thomson Reuters. Omgeo is an operations expert automating trade lifecycle events, including allocation, confirmation/ affirmation, settlement notification, enrichment, operational analytics and counterparty risk management between trade counterparties.  Role: Python Developer  Responsibilities:  • Created Data tables to display customer information and add, delete, update customer records using Python, MySQL and XHTML.  • Used PyQt for the functionality filtering of columns helping customers to effectively view their transactions and statements. Implemented navigation rules for the application and page outcomes, written controllers using annotations.  • Written queries in HQL and Native SQL and criteria API.  • Added the navigations and paginations and filtering columns and adding and removing the desired columns for view utilizing Python based GUI components.  • Implemented marshalling and UN marshalling XML to HTML and HTML to XML.  • Created PyUnit test scripts and used for unit testing.  • Actively participated in System Testing, production support and maintenance/patch deployments.  • Worked on RUP development environment and used Rational ClearCase for versioning.  • Used JQuery for selecting particular DOM elements when parsing HTML.  • Developed SQL Queries, Stored Procedures, and Triggers Using Oracle 9i SQL, PL/SQL.  • Developed test cases using Python unit test, pylint and nose.    Environment: Python, HTML, JavaScript, Ajax, PyQT, PyUnit, PL/SQL, and Oracle SQL Developer. Python Developer Vision InfoTech Pvt Ltd July 2011 to October 2012 Responsibilities:  • Worked on requirement gathering and High level design.  • Used HTML/CSS and Javascript for UI development.  • Converted Visual basic Application to Python and MSQL.  • Used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Written many programs to parse excel file and process many user data with data validations.  • Used Thales theorem for applying encryption and decryption of ISO standard message in Python programming.  • Ensured high quality data collection and maintaining the integrity of the data.  • Contributed patches back to Django.  • Utilized Python in the handling of all hits on Django, Redis, and other applications.  • Developed object-oriented programming to enhance company product management.  • Used several Python libraries like wxPython, numPY and matPlotLib.  • Was involved in environment code installation as well as the SVN implementation.  • Build all database mapping classes using Django models.  • Created unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.    Environment: Python 2.6, Scipy, Pandas, Bugzilla, SVN, C++, Java, JQuery, MS SQL, Visual Basic, Linux, Eclipse, Java Script, XML, JASPER, PL/SQL, Oracle 9i, Shell Scripting, HTML5/CSS, Apache. Software Developer ARIS Global - IN May 2010 to June 2011 Responsibilities:  • Worked with team of developers on Python applications for RISK management.  • Made Django web based apps for Insurance premium calculations.  • Designed the architecture of the hardware environments and methodology of the code.  • Involved in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM Process.  • Job scheduling, batch-job scheduling, process control, forking and cloning of jobs and checking the status of the jobs using shell scripting.  • With using of Python OS module on UNIX environment, made job cloning and forking.  • Automated data extraction process from legacy system and used 'Nose' Testing framework with Assertion module to testing many automated process.  • Participated in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Used Numpy for Numerical analysis for Insurance premium.  • Developed weekly, monthly nightly job process through UNIX shell scripting.  • Thoroughly used UnitTest Python library for testing many python programs and block of codes.  • Also have rich experience on testing REST Full API like Twilio, Facebook and Twitter.    Environment: Python, Django, C++, XML, Java, MYSQL, Apache, CSS, MySQL, ORACLE, DHTML, HTML, JavaScript, Shell Scripts, Linux, UNIX and Windows. Additional Information Technical Skills:  Languages Python 3.x,2.7/2.4, C++, Java, Shell Script, Perl, SQL  Python Framework Django 1.3/1.4/1.5  Databases MySQL 5.1, SQL Server 2008 , Oracle 10g, Siebel  Web Technologies AJAX, JavaScript, HTML, DHTML, XHTML, XML  Versioning Tools Subversion, GIT, Perforce, SVN, CVS  IDE Eclipse, My Eclipse, PyCharm, RAD  Web servers Apache, IIS  NO SQL MongoDB, Cassandra  Operating systems Linux/Unix, Windows NT/2000/XP/2003/Vista, Mac OSX