Business System Analyst/ Python Developer Business System Analyst/<span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Business System Analyst/ Python Developer Wichita, KS ? 6+ Years of experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Management and implementation of various stand-alone, client-server enterprise applications.  ? Extensive experience in Python.  ? Good Knowledge Objected Oriented Concepts, Data Structures and algorithms.  ? Web development using Python, FLASK and Django.  ? Hands-on experience in writing and reviewing requirements, architecture documents, test plans, design documents, quality analysis and audits.  ? Excellent analytical and problem solving skills and ability to work on own besides being a valuable and contributing team player.  ? SQL, PL/SQL programming, developing complex code units, database triggers  ? Working knowledge of Python ORM SQLAlchemy,  ? Working knowledge MongoDB, Oracle, SQLite databases  ? Hands on experience in developing business processes and system solutions utilizing prototype development, system development and deployment.  ? Cross browser compatibility testing and intellectual challenges in User Experience (UX).  ? Experience in writing/editing web content, technical and user documentation, business process analysis, process flow charting and documentation.  ? Strong perseverance and diligence towards attaining challenging goals and possess effective communication skills and quick learning ability.  ? Excellent interpersonal and presentation skills and the ability to interact professionally with a diverse group, executives, managers, and subject matter experts.  ? Proficient in database design and management using MS SQL Server.  ? Having experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment and Excel data extracts.  ? Experience object oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python and Django.  ? Proficient in SQL databases MySQL, Sqlite3 and NoSQL databases MongoDB.  ? Experienced with full software development life-cycle, architecting scalable platforms, object oriented programming, database design and agile methodologies.  ? Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  ? Strong perseverance with challenging goals and possess good communication skills along with quick learning abilities. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Business System Analyst/ Python Developer Chrome Plus Inc - Wichita, KS July 2016 to Present Project Description: The project was to enhance existing, internal MRP system (software) such that processes on system will be automatized and have quick responses based on human actions. The challenge was to significant dependency of processes on human activities, on system.    Responsibilities:  ? Designed new features and updated current features for Django based web applications such as, to track a part being processed, instead of going to different processes and look up for a part, we introduced a new page where part number can be entered and it will show list of processes including processed that were done, current process and remaining processes.  ? Used a diverse set of data stores such as PostgreSQL and MySQL to accomplish a range of features.  ? Taught other developers how to utilize agile development workflows and associated software tools.  ? Collaborate with project stakeholders to ensure all requirements are met.  ? Performed code reviews and familiar with Git.  ? Provided clean code and proper documentation for each user story/feature.  ? Followed agile development methodologies.  ? Created PyUnit test scripts and used for unit testing.  ? Created Django online forms to store user/product information. Backend Python Developer CIS by Deloitte - Morrisville, NC March 2016 to June 2016 Project Description: Healthcare Website  This healthcare website was a generic product, developed that could be easy to adopt for almost all healthcare organizations. Additionally, according to requirements of different healthcare organizations, features can be added or removed.    Responsibilities:  • Analyzed functional requirements and documented the user specifications and business rules.  • Implemented business logic for the modules such as parsing data, creating API endpoints.  • Involved in creating business processes and modeling diagrams using Rational Unified Process (RUP).  • Created test harness to enable comprehensive testing utilizing Python.  • Created unit tests.  • Worked with JSON based REST Web services.  • Wrote Python routines to log into the websites and fetch data for selected options.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python.    Environment: Python, Flask, PyUnit, PostgreSQL, JIRA, Git, Vagrant, Postman (To test APIs),  Pycharm, Cassandra (NoSQL database) Python Developer JPMC - Columbus, OH August 2014 to February 2016 Project Description: Online Dispute System  The Online Dispute system provides an opportunity for the credit card holders to inquire about any suspicious transactions by raising disputes on their posted charges. Additionally, customers are provided with an option to monitor the status of the disputes online.    Responsibilities:  • Analyzed functional requirements and documented the user specifications and business rules.  • Implemented business logic for the modules such as liability shift, system checks and arbitration in complaint.  • Involved in creating business processes and modeling diagrams using Rational Unified Process (RUP).  • Created test harness to enable comprehensive testing utilizing Python.  • Created PyUnit test scripts and used for unit testing.  • Worked with JSON based REST Web services.  • Wrote Python routines to log into the websites and fetch data for selected options.  • Developed multi-threaded standalone app in Python, C to view Circuit parameters and performance.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL with complete data integrity.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web based solution.  • Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Created and executed test plans using PyUnit.  • Managed requirements and tasks using JIRA.  • Developed Views, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions.  • Used Celery to string background tasks together with RabbitMQ as service broker.  • Worked on preparing configuration specs, branching, labeling and merging using Subversion.    Environment: Python, Django, Subversion, PyUnit, PostgreSQL, JIRA, Celery, RabbitMQ and RUP. Python Developer Enterprise Holdings January 2013 to July 2014 Managed the Enterprise Holdings rental applications for the entire sister companies such as Alamo, national and enterprise. This project was for sales agent with hand-held devices for fast checkout and check-in of customers at airport locations.    Responsibilities:  ? Created and helped deploy advertisements with Advert Serve.  ? Used AW stat and Google Analytics to analyze web traffic.  ? Managed over 100 domains  ? Started developing with Django 0.96 and currently developing with Django 1.0  ? Deployed production site using Apache 2.0 with mod_ python  ? Upgraded Python 2.3 to Python 2.5 on a RHEL 4 server, this required recompiling mod python to use Python 2.5. This upgrade was necessary because in lined models with UTF-8 characters were causing unexpected errors. Submitted a ticket to the Django project documenting this incompatibility with Python 2.3.  ? Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgresSQL with complete data integrity.  ? Using django_evolution and manual SQL modifications was able to modify Django models while retaining all data, while site was in production mode.  ? Worked very closely with designer, tightly integrating Flash into the CMS with the use of Flashvars stored in the Django models. Also created XML with Django to be used by the Flash.    Environment:  Python, Django, mod python, HTML/XHTML, XML Python Developer Anthem - Woodland Hills, CA November 2011 to December 2012 Description:  Responsibilities:  ? Designed and developed test framework using Python.  ? Created 8 modules to streamline the testing of web applications and web services.  ? Used pymssql and _mssql modules to retrieve data, insert data, update data in tables of the Sql-Server databases.  ? Created scripts to test the web applications using python. The coverage of the testing is approximately 50% of the documented test cases.  ? Responsible to plan, to create, to execute and to publish the performance results of various applications and services.  ? Created, executed and maintained the automation for handheld applications using Python and Test complete.  ? Interviewed, hired and mentored new resources to be independent contributors to the project teams.  ? Used AJAX to reduce page reloads.  ? Used the Model View controller (MVC) framework to build modular and maintainable applications.  ? Wrote complex SQL queries.  ? Created table-less design using CSS.  ? Developed multi-page applications from beginning to end.  ? Performed Flow Control, response to Front-End Request using Python/ MySQL/ Ajax.  ? Conceived and created tables using MySQL 5.  ? Created tables, stored procedures, triggers and views for data access and manipulation.  ? Fixed bugs using Xdebug.    Environment: Python 2.7, MySQL Web Developer AR wonders Technologies Pvt. Ltd - Mumbai, Maharashtra May 2010 to September 2011 Mumbai, India.    AR Wonders provides trusted, reliable and cost-effective outsourced software development and support services to small and mid-size companies. Clients ranges from well-known companies to early-stage ventures developing cutting-edge technology products.    Responsibilities:  ? Development in Python, SQL in Linux OS/windows OS  ? Statistics, algorithms, data structures, relational databases, SQL programming (MySQL, pyMSQLdb)  ? Managed Big Data  ? Worked closely with marketing team to create respective test cases and algorithms for efficient work flow.  ? Tested HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JSP to present Client side GUI.  ? Involved in testing of JavaScript code for Client Side Validations.  ? Designed the HTML based web pages for displaying the reports.  ? Developed dynamic content of presentation layer using JSP.  ? Developed JSP as the view, Servlets as Controller and EJB as model in the Struts Frameworks.  ? Worked on Weblogic application server to deploy JSP and EJB applications.    Environment: Python 2.7, Linux /Windows OS, MySQL, pymysqldb, HTML, CSS, JavaScript. Skills PYTHON (6 years), MYSQL (6 years), SQL (4 years), DATABASE (3 years), HTML (2 years) Additional Information Operating Systems: MS windows, NT/2000/XP, LINUX, Mac OS  Languages: Python, core, HTML, PL/SQL,C  Database: MYSQL, PyMYSQL, PostgreSQL  Technical Writing Tools: MSWord, Excel, Pages, Keynote, Terminal, TextEdit.  Project Management Tools: Microsoft Project, MS Office, MS FrontPage