Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Hacol Inc Having 8 + Years of experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Testing, Customization, Bug fixes, Enhancement, Support and Implementation of various web, stand-alone, client-server enterprise applications using Python, Django in various domains.  * Experienced with full software development life-cycle (SDLC), architecting scalable platforms, object-oriented programming (OOPs), database design and agile methodologies.  * Good experience of software development in Python (libraries used: Beautiful Soup, NumPy, SciPy, matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas data frame, network, urllib2, MySQL dB for database connectivity) and IDEs - sublime text, Spyder, PyCharm, emacs.  * Extensive experience in system analysis, design, development, and implementation of web-based and client/server application using HTML, Angular JS, Bootstrap, Underscore JS, Node JS, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, JSP, JDBC, XML, XSLT, Python, Django.  * Good experience in developing web applications implementing MVT/MVC architecture using Django, Flask, Webapp2, and spring web application frameworks.  * Experienced in web applications development using Django/ Python, Flask/ Python. And NodeJS, AngularJS, DOJO, JQuery while using HTML/CSS/JS for server-side rendered applications.  * Worked closely with the designer, tightly integrating Flash into the CMS with the use of Flashvars stored in the Django models. Also created XML with Django to be used by the Flash.  * Good Experience in Linux Bash scripting and following PEP Guidelines in Python.  * Developed consumer-based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML, Behaviour Driven Development (BDD) and pair-based programming.  * Using Django evolution and manual SQL modifications were able to modify Django models while retaining all data, while the site was in production mode.  * Experienced in monitoring, developing and transforming data using SQL Server Integration Service (SSIS) and SQL Server Analysis Service (SSAS)  * Experienced with databases using ORMs/DOMs for integrating with MySQL, Postgres, Neo4J, MongoDB, and Cassandra SQLite. Also, experienced with writing custom queries through database connectors.  * Experience in ASP.Net controls like HTML Controls, Server Controls, and User Controls using C #.  * Develop, configure and deploy a variety of .NET Framework applications including Web Forms, Web Services, and Console applications.  * Expertise in establishing database connections for Java and Python by configuring packages like JDBC, MySQL- Python.  * Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  * Architecture, size (Capacity planning), Data modeling, implementation and support Cassandra Clusters including install, configure and upgrade DSE v3/4 (Cassandra v 1/2.x) and OpsCenter v 4.x/5.x on Bare metal and Cloud including AWS (Amazon Web Services)  * Configure backup, alerts, repairs, and monitoring of Cassandra clusters, in conjunction with Nagios/OpsCenter and custom scripts.  * Experience with creating a script for data modeling and data import and export. Extensive experience in deploying, managing and developing MongoDB clusters.  * Good Knowledge of web services using SOAP and REST protocols.  * Excellent Experience and knowledge in using XML, SOAP, Web Service for interoperable software applications.  * Efficient in demonstrating all phases of software development lifecycle (requirements, design, architecture, development, testing)  * Experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python-based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling, and Excel data extracts.  * Excellent experience with Python development under LinuxOS (Debian, Ubuntu, SUSE Linux, RedHat Linux, Fedora)  * Reviewed requirement documents with the business and development team to understand the architecture and functionality of the application and consolidated these requirements in appropriate modules in Test strategy.  * Experienced in Requirement gathering, use case development, Business Process Flow, Business Process Modeling: extensively used UML to develop various use cases, class diagrams, and sequence diagrams. Work Experience Python Developer Hacol Inc - Brooklyn, NY August 2018 to Present Description: HaCol is a Brooklyn based engineering firm which offers services and collaborates with companies developing hardware. We can help with the many aspects of designing electronics, including: PCB layout, component selection, firmware design, one off assemblies and testing. Our specialty is helping hardware startups develop low budget prototypes from design to assembly by doing whatever it takes to get things done.  Responsibilities:  * Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and JQuery.  * Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  * Refactor Python/Django modules to deliver a certain format of data.  * Managed datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL, queried MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package to retrieve information.  * Utilized Python libraries wxPython, NumPy, Twisted, and, matplotlib.  * Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data into thedatabase.  * Used Wireshark, live HTTP headers, and Fiddler2 debugging proxy to debug the Flash object and help the developer create a functional component. The PHP page for displaying the data uses AJAX to sort and display the data. The page also outputs data to .csv for viewing in Microsoft Excel.  * Worked on AWS and its services like IAM, VPC, EC2, EBS, RDS, S3, Glacier, Lambda, ELB, Auto Scaling, Elastic Beanstalk, Route 53, CloudFront, CloudWatch, CloudTrail, SQS, and SNS.  * Maintaining EC2 Services like Launching Instances, attaching volumes and snapshots, Configuring security group and Monitoring.  * Parsers wrote in Python for extracting useful data from the design database.  * Experienced in cloud automation using AWSCloudFormation templates to create custom sized VPC, Subnets, NAT, EC2 instances, ELB and Security groups.  * Development of Python APIs to dump the array structures in the Processor at the failure point for debugging.  * Utilized Active Record eager loading to improve rendering time of index pages, incorporated up/down voting, reviewing, and several custom sorting methods for shows to provide smooth user experience.  * Reverse engineer and re-implement legacy back-end software into Python with minimal downtime.  * Involved in development of Webservices using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  * Developed views and templates with Python and Django view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly Website interface.  * Implemented client-side validation to avoid back and forward between server-client and provide better user experience.  * Migrated platform from physical server to virtual environment. Took it from development into production by wiring up aNginxstack.  * AGILE (SCRUM) practices and attending daily agile (SCRUM) meetings and SPRINT retrospective meetings to produce quality deliverables within time and setting weekly goals.  * Consumed external APIs and wrote RESTful API using DjangoREST Framework and AngularJs. Equally comfortable working within the DjangoORM or writing native SQL in SQL Server.  * Developed PythonScript for moving files from drop box to Amazon server.  * Written PythonScripts for loading data from CSV files into the database tables.  * Documented tasks in Confluence and related them to the JIRA tickets.  * Extensive experience in using Python /Perl to code and design various phases for data processing pipeline.  * Experience working with version control systems such as Git and ApacheSVN for maintaining a consistent state throughout the application development process.  * Involved in database-driven web application development using a variety of frameworks such as Django on Python.  * Writing Python scripts with CloudFormation templates to automate the installation of Autoscaling, EC2, VPC, and other services.  * Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators, and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  * Used third party JQuery based plug-ins like JQuery UI, Data tables etc. Heavily used JavaScript for Form Submit and other UI elements during development.  * Utilize in-depth knowledge of Technical experience in the LAMP and other leading-edge products and technology in conjunction with industry and business skills to deliver solutions to the customer.  * Representation of the system in hierarchy form by defining the components, subcomponents using Python and developed a set of library functions over the system based on the user needs.  * Used REST and SOAPUI for testing web service for server-side changes.  Environment: Python 3.4/2.7, Django 1.7, MongoDB, MySQL, AJAX, SOAP, REST, JQuery, JavaScript, Bootstrap, PyCharm, AWS (EC2, S3, RDS) Python Developer Discount Tire Scottsdale - Scottsdale, AZ May 2017 to July 2018 Description: Discount Tire in Ann Arbor, Michigan. Starting with an inventory of only six tires, Halle grew his store by cultivating connections to the community and honoring relationships with customers and employees. Through respect, fairness, and a willingness to always pay it forward, Halle transformed his store into a thriving, responsible business.  Responsibilities:  * Involved in analysis, specification, design, and implementation and testing phases of the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and used the agile methodology for developing the application.  * Upgraded existing UI with HTML, CSS, jQuery, and, Bootstrap.  * Working as an application developer experienced with controllers, views, and models in Django.  * Used Salt Stack to configure and manage the infrastructure.  * Restful web services using Python REST API Framework.  * Used REACTJS to create views to hook up models to the DOM and synchronize data with the server as a Single Page Application (SPA)  * Implemented AJAX to update necessary section of web pages and hence, avoiding the need for reloading the entire web page.  * Implemented the Project structure based on Spring MVC pattern using spring boot.  * Developed and tested many features in an agile environment using Python, Django, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, and Bootstrap.  * Involved to implement various screens for the front end using REACTJS and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager) and REDUX library.  * Used AWS Cloud Watch to monitor and store logging information  * Implemented the application using Python Spring IOC (Inversion of Control), Django Framework and handled the security using Python Spring Security.  * Tested entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  * Developed Server-side automation using Node JS scripting and connecting different types of SQL and NoSQL stores from Node JS.  * Used PyUnit, the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications.  * Involved in develop the REST Web services to expose the business methods to external services in the project.  * Worked on front end frame works like CSS, Bootstrap for development of Web application.  * Participated in requirement gathering and worked closely with the architect in designing and Modeling.  * Developed, tested and debugged software tools for clients and internal customers of the organization.  * Experienced in using Design Patterns such as Singleton and MVC frameworks like Django and AngularJS.  * Used object/relational mapping (ORM) solution, the technique of mapping data representation from the MVC model to Oracle Relational data model with a SQL-based schema  * Implemented Performance tuning and improved the Performance of Stored Procedures and Queries.  * Installed and configured PyBuilder for application builds and deploying it.  * Developed and Deployed SOAP-based Web Services on Tomcat Server  * Used Jenkins for continuous integration for code quality inspection and worked on building local repository mirror and source code management using Git Hub.  * Used IDE tool to develop the application and JIRA for bug and issue tracking.  * Deployed project into Amazon web services (AWS) using Amazon elastic beanstalk.  * Wrote unit testing codes using unit test, resolving bugs and other defects using Firebug  * Used JIRA to assign, track, report and audit the issues.  * Used GIT to coordinate team development  Environment: Python, Django Web Framework, HTML, CSS, NoSQL, JavaScript, JQuery, Sublime Text, Jira, GIT, PyBuilder, unit test, Firebug, Web Services, AWS. Python Developer Omni Healthcare - Long Beach, CA January 2016 to April 2017 Description: OMNI Healthcare is an affordable Health Clinic that believes health care is an essential right of all, and that it can be done in a caring, patient-centered, affordable and accessible way, so that people can get and stay healthy, regardless of their finances.  Responsibilities:  * Designed and Developed UI for creating Dashboard application using AngularJS, D3, C3, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript andjQuery.  * Developed and implemented Python scripts to automate retrieval, parsing and reporting of configuration parameters from Network Devices connected to customer networks.  * Involved in user interface design and development using JSP, Servlet, HTML5, CSS3, andJavaScript.  * Wrote and tested Python scripts to create new data files for Linux server configuration using a Python template tool.  * Modified controlling databases using SQL generated via Python and Perl code, collected and analyzed data with Python programs using SQL queries from the database of data collected from the systems under tests.  * Developed new user interface components for different modules using Kendo UI with various controls including Grid controls, and chart controls etc.  * Involved in write application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and hence building type-ahead feature for zip code, city, and county lookup using jQuery, Ajax, and jQuery UI.  * Worked on updating the existing clipboard to have the new features as per the client requirements.  * Skilled in using collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user-defined objects.  * Taken part in the entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  * Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  * Automated different workflows, which are initiated manually with Python scripts and Unix shell scripting.  * Used Python unit and functional testing modules such as unit test, unittest2, mock, and custom frameworks in-line with Agile Software Development methodologies.  * Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  * Created and maintained Technical documentation for launching Hadoop Clusters and for executing Hive queries and Pig Scripts.  * Developed Sqoop scripts to handle change data capture for processing incremental records between new arrived and existing data in RDBMS tables.  * Installed Hadoop, Map Reduce, HDFS, AWS and developed multiple MapReduce jobs in PIG and Hive for data cleaning and pre-processing.  * Managed datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL, queried MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package to retrieve information.  * Involved in the Web/Application development using Python, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JSON, and, jQuery.  * Developed and tested many features for a dashboard using Python, Java, Bootstrap, CSS, JavaScript, andjQuery.  * Generated Python Django forms to record data of online users and used PyTest for writing test cases.  * Implemented and modified various SQL queries and Functions, Cursors and Triggers as per the client requirements.  * Prototype proposal for Issue Tracker website using Python/Django connecting MySQL as Database.  * The developed overall layout that meets cross-platform compatibility using Bootstrap, media queries and Angular UI Bootstrap.    Environment: Python, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JSON, jQuery, MySQL, NumPy, SQL Alchemy, Matplotlib, Hadoop, Pig Scripts. Python Developer Citi Financial - Tampa, FL March 2014 to December 2015 Description: Citi works tirelessly to provide consumers, corporations, governments and institutions with a broad range of financial services and products. We strive to create the best outcomes for our clients and customers with financial ingenuity that leads to solutions that are simple, creative and responsible    Responsibilities:  * Involved in the software development lifecycle (SDLC) of tracking the requirements, gathering, analysis, detailed design, development, system testing and user acceptance testing.  * Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  * Involved in designing user interactive web pages as the front-end part of the web application using various web technologies like HTML, JavaScript, Angular JS, jQuery, AJAX and implemented CSS for better appearance and feel.  * Actively involved in developing the methods for Create, Read, Update and Delete (CRUD) in Active Record.  * Design and Setting up of environment of MongodB with shards and replicasets. (Dev/Test and Production)  * Private VPN using Ubuntu, Python, Django, Postgres, Redis, Bootstrap, JQuery, Mongo, Fabric, Git, Tenjin and Selenium.  * Working knowledge of various AWS technologies like SQSQueuing, SNS Notification, S3 storage, Redshift, Data Pipeline, EMR.  * Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  * Implemented Multithreading module and complex networking operations like race route, SMTP mail server and web server Using Python.  * Used NumPy for Numerical analysis for the Insurance premium.  * Implemented and modified various SQL queries and Functions, Cursors and Triggers as per the client requirements.  * Managed code versioning with GitHub, BitBucket, and deployment to staging and production servers.  * Implemented MVC architecture in developing the web application with the help of Django framework.  * Used Celery as task queue and Rabbit MQ, Redis as messaging broker to execute asynchronous tasks.  * Designed and managed API system deployment using a fast HTTP server and Amazon AWS architecture.  * Involved in code reviews using GitHub pull requests, reducing bugs, improving code quality, and increasing knowledge sharing  * Install and configuring monitoring scripts for AWS EC2 instances.  * Implemented task object to interface with data feed framework and invoke database message service setup and update functionality.  * Working under UNIX environment in the development of application using Python and familiar with all its commands.  * Developed remote integration with third-party platforms by using RESTful web services.  * Updated and maintained Jenkins for automatic building jobs and deployment.  * Improved code reuse and performance by making effective use of various design patterns and refactoring code base.  * Updated and maintained Puppet RSpec unit/system test.  * Worked on debugging and troubleshooting programming related issues.  * Worked in the MySQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization.  * Deployment of the web application using the Linux server.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.4, HTML5, CSS, XML, MySQL, JavaScript, Backbone JS, JQuery, Mongo DB, MS SQL Server, JavaScript, Git, GitHub, AWS, Linux, Shell Scripting, AJAX, JAVA. Python Developer Accel Trees oftwares Pvt Ltd - Pune, Maharashtra December 2012 to February 2014 Description: AccelTree is a software company with a decade-long experience in digital technology, that offers a wide variety of products and solutions to the BFSI sector, with a special focus on Insurance and Banking. We are amongst the first few companies with our very own digital mobility platform comprising of a server-side enterprise middleware  Responsibilities:  * Designed the front end of the application using Python, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON and JQuery. Worked on backend of the application, mainly using Active Records.  * Carried out various mathematical operations for calculation purpose using Python libraries.  * Used Celery with RabbitMQ, MySQL, Django and Flask to create a distributed worker framework.  * Develop consumer based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML, Web2Py, Behaviour Driven Development (BDD) and pair based programming.  * Created PHP/MySQL back-end for data entry from Flash I had to assist the Flash developer send the correct data via query strings.  * Generated Python Django Forms, Crispy forms to record data, login and signup of online users.  * Worked on front end frame works like CSS Bootstrap for development of Web applications.  * Used Python and Django to interface with the JQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  * Created the environment specific settings for a new deployment and update the deployment specific conditional checks in code base to use specific checks.  * Worked with AJAX framework to get the asynchronous response for the user request and used JavaScript for the validation.  * Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  * Worked extensively with Bootstrap, JavaScript and JQuery to optimize the user experience.  * Deployed the project into Google Cloud using GIT version control system.  * Built various graphs for business decision making using Python Matplotlib library.  * Used Python library Beautiful Soup for web scrapping to extract data for building graphs.  * Executing regression tests on each release and verified bugs found from automation test in Bugzilla and done error logging using Sentry by Raven Library.  * Performed Unit testing, Integration Testing, GUI and web application testing using Rspec.  * Planning, implementing, and converting manual test cases to automation test cases.  * Worked on Jenkins continuous integration tool for deployment of project.    Environment: Python, Django, RabbitMQ, Flask, Web2Py MySQL, HTML/CSS, AJAX, JSON, JQuery, RSpec, PHP, JavaScript, Pandas, Bootstrap, Google Cloud, Beautiful Soup, Bugzilla, GIT, Jenkins. Java Developer Aeron Systems Pvt Ltd - Pune, Maharashtra January 2011 to November 2012 Description: At Aeron, culture is not just a word, but the indispensable part of the way we function. We have succeeded in organically developing a culture at Aeron where curious minds can come together and innovate on challenging problems. Our culture remains not on the posters; rather it percolates in every action that we do thereby allow us to add value to our clients, employees, and society at large.  Responsibilities:  * Involved in development of Java concepts like Collections, Exception Handling, Multi-Threading.  * Worked on MVC pattern, using various frameworks.  * Worked on WebSphere as application deployment servers.  * Adopted agile methods for development & delivery of the solution and participated in complete life cycle of the project (SDLC)  * Designed the Database, written triggers and stored procedures.  * Developed screens based on JQuery to dynamically generate HTML ad display data to the client side.  * Written Struts services and DAOS in the service layer for SQL data retrieval operations using JDBC.  * Demonstrated Experience and advocate for test-driven development.  * Worked on JavaScript frame work to augment browser based applications with MVC capability.  * Worked on front-end and back-end application development. Have upgraded additional functionalities and services with the use cases provided.  * Involved in development of various controller classes as a part of MVC framework.  * Worked in referential data service module to interface with various databases using JDBC.  * Implemented REST and SOAP based web services and published using JAX-WS.  * Worked on Database Schemas, HTML and XML services.  * Worked on Oracle Database to store and retrieve information using SQL Developer.  * Worked on Eclipse IDE's for build, debugging and deploy it using Apache Tomcat.  * Developed Build Script using MAVEN.  * Involved in unit testing and run test cases.    Environment: Java, Java EE, JavaScript, JQuery, Struts, Eclipse, TOMCAT, SQL Developer, Oracle Database 11g, JDBC, Template, WebSphere, SOAP UI, Maven, REST, Windows. Education Bachelor's Skills HTML (8 years), JAVASCRIPT (8 years), DATABASE (7 years), UI (6 years), USER INTERFACE (6 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Mark-up Language HTML DHTML, JavaScript, Ajax, DOJO.  Python Libraries Beautiful Soup, NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas data frame, urllib2  Database Oracle11g, MySQL 5.x, andSQLServer  Frameworks Django, Flask, CherryPy, web2py, Pyramid.  Web Services SOAP, REST, WSDL  Methodologies OOPS/OOAD, UML, J2EE Design Patterns  Version Control SVN, Clear case, CVS  IDE's PyCharm, Emacs, Eclipse, NetBeans, Sublime, SOAP UI  Tools RAD, Eclipse, Edit Plus, Apache Ant, log4j, JUnit, Visio, ANT, Maven  Web/App. Servers WebSphere Application Server 8.0, Apache Tomcat, Web Logic 11g/ 12c, JBoss 4.x/5.x  Cloud Technologies AWS, S3.