Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - CTI Logistic ? 3 (three) years of experience IT Industry with proficiency in Design & Development of Python, Django and Flask  ? Experienced with full software development life-cycle, architecting scalable platforms, object-oriented programming, database design and agile methodologies  ? Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, Flask, XML, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Jquery and React.js.  ? Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS, and JavaScript  ? Extensive experience in Python web frameworks like Django, and Flask in implementing MVC, singleton, factory architecture.  ? Good experience of software development in Python using libraries such as Numpy, Matplotlib and Pandas data frames.  ? Hands-on experience with SQL, PL/SQL, Open Interfaces, and APIs.  ? Proficient in using Relational Databases like MySQL, SQL Server and SQLite. Extensive experience in processing large datasets with millions of records for data transformation including data cleansing, data scrubbing, data profiling and applying business logic rules to incoming data.  ? Experience with Version Control with GIT, Github and SVN.  ? Ability to learn and adapt quickly to the emerging new technologies and paradigms  ? Practical experience with working on multiple environments like development, testing, production.  ? Highly motivated, dedicated, quick learner and have proven ability to build and manage a team work individually.  ? Familiarity with development best practices such as code reviews and unit testing.  ? Continuously manages multiple deadlines and competing priorities through proactively planning and managing tasks and resources.  ? Willingness to work in a highly dynamic environment and ready to take up challenges. Work Experience Python Developer CTI Logistic - Los Angeles, CA October 2018 to Present Description: Project is to called Pay Global. The main purpose is to build application that provides a platform for logistic freight services. Analyzing data to improve management and business decisions for client companies. Build interface and web script by using Python and MySQL.  Responsibilities:  • Managed and supervised client portfolio by trading on equity, options and futures  • Worked with the stakeholders to gather requirements.  • Designed and developed the data management system using MySQL  • Analyzed Trade racer website and customer data to identify market, product trends and profitable revenue growth opportunities using Python  • Summarized the massive data sets by analyzing and selecting important attributes based on dependencies between the attributes  • Involved in building database Model, APIs, Forms and Routes utilizing Python, in order to build an iterative web-based solution.  • Developed Python based API (RESTful Web Service) to track the events and perform analysis using Django.  • Performed debugging and troubleshooting the web applications using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development  • Participated in the development of application architecture and blueprints to define application components, platforms, interfaces and development tools.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL  • Worked on UI using HTML, CSS and JavaScript  • Used Git for version control  • Monitored and troubleshoot web applications  • Performed data analysis, manipulation and reporting using pivot tables and advanced functions in MS excel  • Provided technical assistance for maintenance, integration and testing of software solutions during development and release processes. Python Developer Moyi Technology - Jersey City, NJ July 2017 to September 2018 Description: Project is to build an application of currency converting and money transfering for users who use Wechat. The purpose is to be more convenient and quick using currency in different countries. Web-services backend development using Python Django and MySQL database. Developing internal framework on Python and work on UI using HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  Responsibilities:  • Used Advanced SQL queries to perform manipulation on the structured data  • Used Python libraries such as Pandas and Matplotlib to visualize the data  • Deployed Reporting Tool to automate daily visualization  • Communicated the analytical solutions to stakeholders and suggested improvements to the client's operation systems  • Partnered with Data Engineers in developing core data sets from multiple sources that facilitate easy analysis and visualizations  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using Node JS, HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Used Django database API's to access database objects.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL. Built application logic using Python 3.7.  • Participated in requirement gathering and worked closely with the architect in designing and modelling.  • Worked with the team to customize wordpress security installations.  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures on MYSQL.  • Designed and developed a horizontally scalable APIs using Python Django. Tech MayChamp - Phoenix, AZ June 2016 to June 2017 Python Django Developer  Description: Be an assistant of our senior developer and product managers to solve technical problems while building and maintaining applications. Responsible for a mixture of stabilization and fixing existing platforms and more excitingly. A software application that I participated is a web platform of a grocery market. The purpose is to build web services for updating products price and weekly special.  Responsibilities:  • Worked on tuples, dictionaries, object-oriented concepts-based inheritance features for making algorithms  • Interacting with team members on technical programming.  • Solving production support issues (such as bug fixes, queries, etc).  • Prepared documentation for the generated reports  • Understand the requirement and finalize approach for implementation  • Used other packages such as BeautifulSoup for data parsing  • Web-services backend development using Python (Flask)  • Performed data migration and developed Python / Flask based web application, SQL DB, and integrations with 3rd party email, messaging, storage services.  • Developed GUI using Python and Flask for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of python code using a web browser  • Participated in developing the company's internal framework on Python. This framework became a basement for the quick service's development  • Designed and developed MySQL forms and reports and Performed modifications on existing form as per change request and maintained it  • Designed User Interface for data selection using Python.  • Worked on UI using JavaScript, Git, Python, Flask, Postgres, Bootstrap, jQuery  • Performed QA testing on the application.  • Held meetings with client and worked all alone for the entire project with limited help from the client.  • Developed rich user interface using CSS, HTML, JavaScript and jQuery. Created a Python based GUI application  • Setup automated cron jobs to upload data into database, generate graphs, bar charts, upload these charts to wiki, and backup the database  • Wrote scripts in Python for extracting data from HTML file Skills .NET (Less than 1 year), Bootstrap (1 year), CSS (2 years), database (2 years), Django. (2 years), Eclipse (Less than 1 year), Git (1 year), HTML (2 years), Java (Less than 1 year), JavaScript (2 years), jQuery (1 year), JSON (Less than 1 year), Linux (Less than 1 year), Mac (Less than 1 year), Mac OS (Less than 1 year), MS Office (Less than 1 year), MS SQL Server (Less than 1 year), MySQL. (2 years), Python (2 years), SQL (2 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Languages Python 3.7, Java,  Database MySQL, MS SQL Server, PLSQL, SQLite  Web Technologies HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, React. Js, JSON  Framework Django, Flask, Bootstrap  Platforms Mac OS, Window, Unix/Linux  Other Tools Visual Studio, Git, Eclipse, MS Office, Atom,