Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - Onset Computer Corporation Boston, MA • Over 8+ years of experience in developing web-based applications, software development and design using Python 3.3/2.7, Django 1.9/1.8, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, JQuery & Angular Js.  • Experience with Django, a high-level Python Web framework. Experience object oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, Django and Linux.  • Familiar with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web Services (AWS).  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL, Oracle, and Postgre and SQLite3 concepts.  • Developing high availability real time Messaging system for financial/Banking transactions and developed associated components in Linux, UNIX, AIX platforms. Tools C++, STL, BOOST, XML (XPath and XSLT) IBM MQ libraries, Perl, Python scripting.  • Created a Python/Django based web application using Python scripting for data processing, MySQL for the database, and HTML/CSS/JQuery and High Charts for data visualization of the served pages.  • Well aware of SDLC, Waterfall, Test-driven development (TDD) and Agile/Scrum Methodologies.  • Proficient in SQL databases MS SQL, MySQL, Oracle and no-SQL databases MongoDB, Cassandra.  • Worked on AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings.  • Extensive experience with Object Oriented Design and SDLC methodologies using Rational Rose, Unified Modelling Language (UML).  • Good knowledge of various Design Patterns and UML and strong knowledge in frameworks IronPython, Cpython.  • Expertise in MVW frameworks like Django, Angular JS, Java Script, JQuery and Node.js.  • Hands on experience on deployment and packaging tool like Ansible.  • Used Python, Perl, CGI, JQuery, JavaScript and JSON at the front end.  • Experience in Shell Scripting, SQL Server, Unix and Linux, Open stock.  • Familiar with JSON based REST Web services.  • Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  • Experienced in MVC frameworks like Django, Flask and Pyramid.  • Expertise in Object-Oriented design and coding.  • Experience in analyzing and handling large database using Oracle Relational data Architecture.  • Good Knowledge on continuous integration and build tool like Jenkins.  • Did sites configuration on Apache2, Ngnix web servers.  • Well versed with versioning tools like GIT and SVN. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Python Developer Onset Computer Corporation - Boston, MA August 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  • Django Framework that was used in developing web applications  • Exposure on Multi-Threading factory to distribute learning process back-testing and the into various worker processes.  • Performed efficient delivery of code based on principles of Test Driven Development (TDD) and continuous integration to keep in line with Agile Software Methodology principles  • Different testing methodologies like unit testing, Integration testing, web application testing, Selenium testing performed.  • Lock mechanisms were implemented and the functionality of multithreading has been used  • Python/Django based web application, Postgresql DB, and integrations with 3rd party email, messaging, storage services.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in python and Bash  • Design and implemented custom scripts.  • Extensive use of version controller Team Foundation Server (TFS).  • Test and validated the custom scripts.  • Delivered automated solutions for science models  • Implemented configuration changes for data models.  • Handled potential points of failure through error handling and communication of failure  • Anticipated potential parts of failure( database, communication points, file system errors)  • Troubleshoot the process execution and worked with other team members to correct them.  • Actively worked as a part of team with managers and other staff to meet the goals of the project in the stipulated time.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team  • Used Pandas library for statistics Analysis.  • Used Numpy for Numerical analysis for Insurance premium  • Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  • Used advanced packages in AON PATHWISE for performing unit test and deploying data models.  • Extensively used python modules such as requests, urllib, urllib2 for web crawling.  • Developed GUI using webapp2 for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of python code using a web browser.  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  • Responsible for user validations on client side as well as server side.  • Automated the existing scripts for performance calculations using Numpy and sql alchemy.  • Strong Object Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD), ERD documentation, UML artifacts modeling with Rational Rose and Enterprise Architect. Applied the requirements engineering, analysis, and design disciplines of the RUP to J2EE projects.  Environment: Python 3.0, Django, HTML5/CSS, MS SQL Server 2013, MySQL, Javascript, Eclipse, Linux, Shell Scripting, JQuery, J2EE, GitHub, Angular.JS, Jira Sr. Python Developer Omaha, NE March 2015 to July 2016 Responsibilities:  • Django Framework that was used in developing web applications to implement model View control architecture.  • Installed and configured GIT and communicating with the repositories in GITHUB.  • Integrated Maven with GIT to manage and deploy project related tags.  • Extensively used python modules such as requests, urllib , urllib2 for web crawling.  • Responsible for writing/modifying scripts using sh, ksh and Bash for day-to-day administration  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA(Agile) and wrote python scripts to parse JSON documents and load the data in database.  • Used HTML/CSS, XML and JavaScript for UI development.  • Experience with various frameworks of JavaScript like Angular Js etc  • Used the continuous integration(CID) tool Jenkins for automating the build processes.  • Implemented a continuous Delivery pipeline with Docker, Jenkins and GitHub, whenever a new GitHub branches are created Jenkins automatically attempts to build a new Docker container from it.  • Modified queries, functions, cursors, triggers and stored procedures for MySql database to improve performance, while processing data.  • Created Database tables, functions, stored procedures and wrote prepared statements using PL/SQL.  • Experience in project deployment using Jenkins and using web services like Amazon Web Services(AWS) EC2 and AWS S3.  • Automated the existing scripts for performance calculations using Numpy and Sqlalchemy.  • Used REST and SOAPUI for testing web service for server side changes.  • Developed and designed an API(Restful Web Service).  • Responsible for parsing XML data using XML parser and testing, fixing of the bugs and coding modifications.  • Database administration activities like taking backup, checking log messages, looking for database optimization.  • Used Redis as messaging broker to execute asynchronous tasks.  • Used Ansible to automate workflow.  • Designed and implemented a dedicated MYSQL database server to drive the web applications and report on daily progress.  Environment: Python 3.3, Django 1.9, Jenkins, PyCharm, MYSQL, Linux, HTML, CSS, JQuery, JavaScript, Ngnix, Docker, AWS, GIT, Angular JS, Ansible Python Developer Robert Bosch - San Jose, CA March 2013 to February 2015 Responsibilities:  • Translated the customer requirements into design specifications and ensured that the requirements translate into software solution.  • Application was based on service oriented architecture and used Python 2.5, Django 1.5, JSF 2, Spring 2, Ajax, HTML, CSS for the frontend.  • Designed the front end of the application using Python, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON and JQuery. Worked on backend of the application, mainly using Active Records.  • Involved in the design, development and testing phases of application using AGILE methodology.  • Developed and designed an API (RESTful Web Service).  • Used the Python language to develop web-based data retrieval systems.  • Designed and maintained databases using Python and developed Python based API (RESTful Web Service) using Flask, SQLAlchemy and PostgreSQL.  • Developed web sites using Django, Python, XHTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Developed and designed e-mail marketing campaigns using HTML and CSS.  • Tested and implemented applications built using Python.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, ROBOT framework, Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Created complex dynamic HTML UI using jQuery.  • Automated Regression analysis for determining fund returns based on index returns ( Python/Excel).  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures, trigger and function on MYSQL.  • Developed shopping cart for Library and integrated web services to access the payment.  • Used Php language on lamp server to develop page.  • Developed server based web traffic statistical analysis tool using Flask, Pandas.  • Implemented and tested python based web applications interacting with MySQL.  • Developed dynamic interaction page on .net MSvisualbasic-2014, using SQL developer tools.  • Simple web app for reviewing sitcoms that gives users the ability to view, add, review, up/down vote, search, etc.  • Involved in doing AGILE (SCRUM) practices and planning of sprint attending daily agile (SCRUM) meetings and SPRINT retrospective meetings to produce quality deliverables within time.  Environment: Linux, Python, Mod Python, Perl, PHP, MySQL, JavaScript, Ajax, Shell Script, HTML, CSS Python Developer Emblem Health - New York, NY November 2011 to February 2013 Responsibilities:  • Created Python and Bash tools to increase efficiency of call center application system and operations; data conversion scripts, AMQP/RabbitMQ, REST, JSON, and CRUD scripts for API Integration.  • Used Celery with RabbitMQ, MySQL, Django, and Flask to create a distributed worker framework.  • Recording of Scripts (Web, Web Services HTML) using Vugen and SoapUI and script validation through co correlations, parameterizations and other methods. Scripting- web and web services.  • Application was based on service oriented architecture and used Python 2.7, Django1.5, JSF 2, Spring 2, Ajax, HTML, CSS for the frontend.  • Created server monitoring daemon with Psutil, supported by Django app for analytics which I created. Also researched big data solutions with Cassandradatabase.  • Experience with Data migration from Sqlite3 to ApacheCassandra database. Cassandra data model designing, implementation, maintaining and monitoring using DSE, DevCentre, DatastaxOpscenter.  • Build the Silent Circle Management System (SCMC) in Django, Python, and Node.JS while integrating with infrastructure services.  • Created a Python/Django based web application using Python scripting for data processing, MySQL for the database, and HTML/CSS/JQuery and HighCharts for data visualization of the served pages.  • Strong Socket programming experience in Python. Implemented complex networking operations like raceroute, SMTP mail server and web server.  • Used existing Deal Model in Python to inherit and create object data structure for regulatory reporting.  • Used standard Python modules e.g. csv, robotparser, itertools, pickle, jinja2, lxml for development.  • Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, JQuery and RESTAPI calls.  • Automated RabbitMQ cluster installations and configuration using Python/Bash.  • Used PandasAPI to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Deployed the project into Heroku using GIT version control system.  • Improved the coding standards, code reuse. Increased performance of the extended applications by making effective use of various design patterns (Front Controller, DAO).  • Worked on a large scale distributed computing environment, monitoring data nodes to prioritize jobs for processing functions.  • Worked extensively with Bootstrap, JavaScript, and JQuery to optimize the user experience.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the JQueryUI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Carried out various mathematical operations for calculation purpose using pythonlibraries.  • Built various graphs for business decision making using Pythonmatplotlib library.  • Fetched twitter feeds for certain important keyword using python-twitter library.  • Used Python library BeautifulSoup for webscrapping to extract data for building graphs.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Pythonbug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  • Executing regression tests on each release and verified bugs found from automation test in Bugzilla.  • Planning, implementing, and converting manual test cases to automation test cases.  • Trained extensively in agile methodologies and implemented by participating in scrum standups, Kanban mode, discussing and implementing requirements with clients.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.4, Cassandra, RabbitMQ, Vugen, SoapUI, Node.JS, REST API, Bash, PyDev, Spyder, HTML5, CSS, XML, MySQL, JavaScript, Angular JS, Backbone JS, JQuery, CSS Bootstrap, Mongo DB, MS SQL Server, T-SQL, JavaScript, Eclipse, Git, GitHub, AWS, Linux, Shell Scripting. Python Developer STRATEOLOGY - Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh January 2010 to September 2011 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Design and development of UI screens for Add and Update Lending Application using Struts frame work.  • Design and development of UI screens using JSP.  • Managing, training and coordinating the team.  • Developed a new product for the unsecured loans featuring Term Business and personal loans.  • Developed and implemented the user registration and login feature for the application process from scratch by extending Django user model.  • Used Restful web service calls for the validation.  • Worked with AJAX framework to get the asynchronous response for the user request and used JavaScript for the validation.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Implemented schema and data migration for the postgresdatabase using South migration tool.  • Developed user-friendly modals for the form submissions using simplemodal.js, JQuery, Ajax and JavaScript.  • Experience in building the war with help the putty and deployed into cloud environment using the cloud controller and experience in solving the cloud issue.  • Worked closely with Client managers/Business Analysts of the bank to drive technical solutions, design and provide development estimates for schedule and effort.  • Worked very closely with product owners, project managers and vendors to satisfy all the business needs.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS, JQuery and JavaScript.  • Used Django framework for database application development.  • Dynamic, hard-working, ability to work in-groups as well as independently with initiative to learn new technologies/tool quickly and emphasis on delivering quality services.  • Have strong ability to build productive relationships with peers, management, and clients using strong communication, interpersonal, organizational, and planning skills.  Environment: Python, Django, J2EE, JSP, Oracle, Eclipse, MySQL, Linux, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, Web Developer Bharati AXA Insurance - Mumbai, Maharashtra July 2008 to December 2009 Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed Use-Case Diagrams, Class Diagrams, and Object Diagrams using UML Rational Rose for OOA/OOD techniques.  • Developed Application using PHP, SQL and UNIX.  • Responsible for development and enhancements of all the modules of raildocs and have them running quickly with online features.  • Engineered stable, isolated environments per game team  • Used HTML, CSS, JQuery, JSON and Javascriptfor front end applications.  • Managed our servers in development, testing, certification and production.  • Implemented locking mechanisms using multi-threading functionality.  • Used Python, Php, CGI, JQuery, JavaScript and JSON at the front end.  • Used python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users  Environment: PHP 5.x, HTML, UML, Rational Rose, Shell Scripting, PL/SQL, ODBC, Pro*C, PVCS, Oracle 9i, Linux and Windows NT. Education Bachelors in Electronics & Communication Engineering JNTU - Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh Additional Information Technical Skills:  Languages: Python, C++  Python Libraries: Beautiful Soup, numpy, scipy, matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas data frame,urllib2  Frameworks: Bootstrap, Django, Node.JS, Flask, PyJamas, Pyramid, Hibernate  Database: Sqlite3, MSSQL, MySQL, Mongo DB, Oracle 11g  IDE's: PyCharm, Eclipse, NetBeans, MS Visual Studio, PyDev, RIDE  Servers: Apache Tomcat, WebSphere, JBoss, WebLogic, XAMPP, Ngnix.  Deployment tools: MS Azure, Heroku, Amazon Web Services (EC2, S3, EBS, ELB, SES)  Web Technologies: HTML, CSS, DHTML, XML, Java Script  Operating systems: Windows, Mac, Fedora Linux, Red hat Linux  SDLC Methods: SCRUM, Agile  Testing Frameworks: Junit, TestNG, ROBOT, JXL, JTest  Bug Tracking Tools: Axosoft, JIRA, Bugzilla, Rational Clear-quest  Version Control: SVN, Github, GIT