Senior Python Developer Senior <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Python Developer - Eli Lilly & Company Indianapolis, IN ? 8+ years of IT experience in analysis, design, development, testing, maintenance and applications using various technologies.  ? Experience in developing web-based applications using Python 3.4/2.6, Django 1.4/1.3.  ? Experience in working with Python ORM Libraries including Django ORM, SQLAlchemy.  ? Experience in implementing with server side technologies with restful API and MVC design patterns with node JS and Django framework.  ? Implemented different applications using MVC frameworks of Django, Flask and Pyramid.  ? Worked on object oriented programming concepts using Python and Django.  ? Experienced in working with various Python IDE's using PyCharm, PyScripter, Spyder, PyStudio.  ? Implemented different python libraries BeautifulSoup, numpy, scipy, pytables, matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas data frame and urllib2 in various tasks.  ? Good Experience in debugging the issues using pdb.  ? Experience on Web Technologies using HTML4/5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, AngularJS, XML and JSON by following W3C standards.  ? Converted the mock-ups into hand-written HTML, CSS, XHTML, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, XML and JSON  ? Extensive knowledge and experience in developing Single Page Applications (SPA) using AngularJS.  ? Worked in cross browser compatibility, Bootstrap and Responsive web design.  ? Familiar with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services.  ? Experience in project deployment using Heroku/Jenkins and using web Services like Amazon Web Services (AWS).  ? Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  ? Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and Post gre SQL database.  ? Maintained detailed documentation and architectural solutions in IT infrastructure and sales systems.  ? Experience in using various version control systems like SVN, CVS, Git  ? Involved in Unit testing and Integration testing  ? Extensive use of Linux (Ubuntu), SSH, Flask/Django  ? Well versed with Agile and Test driven development methodologies.  ? Logical thinker, able to provide effective solutions to solve difficult problems.  ? Great team-player & fun attitude, competent time manager, very dependable under pressure and passionately dedicated to the task. Work Experience Senior Python Developer Eli Lilly & Company - Indianapolis, IN November 2016 to Present The main goal of the project was to create web based application that lets you electronically tests and view the saving results. Also, application supports customer information and provides quick access to the Transaction for easier and efficient manner.    Responsibilities:  ? Participated in all stages of Software Development Life Cycle like Planning, Analysis, Design, Implementation and Testing.  ? Model View Control architecture is implemented using Django Framework to develop web applications.  ? Implemented Business logic, worked on data exchange, processed XML and HTML using Python 3.4 and its familiar framework Django.  ? Worked on Django API's for accessing the database.  ? Developed Views and Templates with Python and Website interface is created using Django's view controller and template.  ? Designed and Developed User Interface using front-end technologies like HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, AngularJS, Bootstrap and JSON.  ? Used SQL stored procedures and UNIX Shell Scripts for importing/exporting Data and Conversions.  ? Created Django dashboard with custom look and feel for end user after a careful study of Django admin site and dashboard.  ? Python Unit test library was used for testing many programs on Python and other codes.  ? For the manipulation of data from the database various queries using SQL were written and created a database using MySQL.  ? Used AJAX for Better interactivity for the end user and easier navigation and AJAX is compact.  ? Implemented RESTful Web Services for the data transportation between multiple systems.  ? Used Python Library Beautiful Soup for web Scrapping.  ? Worked on Jenkins continuous integration tool for deployment of project.  ? Deployed the project into Jenkins using GIT version control system; Created Git repository and added to Git Hub project.  ? An application was developed in Linux environment and dealt with all of its commands.    Environment: Python 3.4, Django, Java Script, HTML, Angular JS, JQuery, JSON, AJAX, XML, CSS, SQL, MySQL, Bootstrap, Restful Web Services, Beautiful Soup, Jenkins, Git, GitHub, Linux, PyCharm. Sr. Python Developer Celgene - Berkeley Heights, NJ May 2015 to August 2016 Celgene is a global biopharmaceutical company leading the way in medical innovation to help patients live longer, better lives. The main purpose is to discover and develop therapies that will change the course of human health.    Responsibilities:  ? Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment by participating in complete SDLC process.  ? Enhanced existing automated solutions, such as the inquiry Tool for automated Asset/Department reporting and added new features and fixed bugs.  ? Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  ? Created the backend application using Python, Django and MySQL.  ? Performed server side application using Django framework and developed a chat application with it and integrated with the main application by client-server architecture.  ? Performed Unit testing, Integration Testing, GUI and web application testing using Rspec.  ? Created the environment specific settings for a new deployment and update the deployment specific conditional checks in code base to use specific checks.  ? Improved the application by designing and developing it using HTML and JavaScript.  ? Created web application prototype using jQuery and Angular JS.  ? Worked on dynamic web applications by using Angular JS.  ? Implemented the Backbone JS for DOM manipulation as this is the light web framework compared to Angular JS.  ? Worked on cross browser compilation and Responsive Web Design using HTML5, CSS3 and Bootstrap.  ? Used SAX for XML parsing, JSON and AJAX to send request to secured web service.  ? Worked on python modules to extract /load asset data from the MySQL database.  ? Designed and implemented a dedicated MySQL database server to drive the Webapps and report on daily progress.  ? Used advanced packages like Mock, patch and beautifulsoup (b4) to perform unit testing.  ? Worked on Jenkins for continuous integration tool for deployment of project.  ? Deployed the project into Heroku using GIT version control.  ? Involved in development, performance testing & defects fixing.  ? Update, maintain and change the current web applications as per the project requirement.  ? Skilled in using collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  ? Worked on various enhancements and bug fixes simultaneously.  ? Involved in code reviews so as to implement coding standards for the entire project.  ? Maintain and compile records of website content.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.4, Beautifulsoup, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, XML, JSON, JQuery, AJAX, Bootstrap, Angular JS, Backbone JS, Node.js, Restful Web services, Apache, Linux, Amazon s3, Heroku, GIT, MySQL, Mongo DB. Python Developer Humana Healthcare Insurance - Lancaster, SC March 2014 to April 2015 Humana Inc., is a Fortune 100 company that markets and administers health insurance in The United States. Humana is committed to helping employers manage their healthcare costs, guiding consumers to make informed health and benefits Decisions, and giving back to the communities they serve.    Responsibilities:  ? Closely worked with business system analyst to understand the requirements to ensure that right set of UI modules been built.  ? Designed the front-end applications, user interactive (UI) web pages using web technologies like HTML, XHTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  ? Used Bootstrap extensively for organizing the web page created.  ? Designed applications implementing MVC architecture in Pyramid and Zope frame works.  ? Implemented MVC architecture in developing web applications using Django frame work.  ? Maintained program libraries, user's manuals and technical documentation.  ? Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data  ? Built various graphs for business decision making using Python matplotlib library.  ? Fetched twitter feeds for certain important keyword using python-twitter library.  ? Used Python library Beautiful Soup for web Scraping.  ? Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  ? Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  ? Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  ? Actively involved in developing the methods for Create, Read, Update and Delete (CRUD) in Active Record.  ? Worked in MySQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization and renormalization.  ? Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  ? Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  ? Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application. Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML.  ? Define technical requirements based upon business requirements.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.3, HTML5/CSS, CSS Bootstrap, Pyramid, MYSQL, MS SQL, JavaScript, SVN, Linux, Shell Scripting, Apache Web Server. Python Developer Progressive Insurance - Mayfield Village, OH January 2013 to January 2014 Progressive Auto Insurance portal provides ability for end customers/users to request a quote, provide quote details, purchase auto insurance and payment of insurance amount. This platform is built using a Struts framework in the presentation layer. The back-end functionality is built using Oracle as data persistence layer and Hibernate as data access layer.    Responsibilities:  ? Worked on the project from gather requirement developing the entire application, with help from other analyst.  ? Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  ? Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users  ? Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation  ? Used Python based GUI components for the front-end functionality such as selection criteria.  ? Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  ? Also used Bootstrap as a mechanism to manage and organize the html page layout.  ? Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  ? Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  ? Use of Python Frameworks for data analysis including Sqlalchemy.  ? Designed and created backend data access modules using PL/SQL stored procedures and Oracle 9i.  ? Created database access layer using JDBC and PL/SQL stored procedures.  ? Designed object model, data model, tables, constraints, necessary stored procedures, functions, triggers, and packages for Oracle Database.  ? Used HTML, CSS, JQuery, JSON and JavaScript for front end applications.  ? Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  ? Worked in an agile development environment.    Environment: Python, Django, JSON, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JQuery, Bootstrap, AWS, XML, SOAP, GitHub, Jira, Agile, SQL, PL/SQL, MYSQL, Oracle and Windows Python developer HDFC India November 2010 to December 2012 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  ? Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  ? Created Business Logic using Python 2.7.  ? Worked on developing internal testing tools written in Python.  ? Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  ? Performed client side validations using JavaScript and server side validations using Django.  ? Designed and developed the UI using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  ? Embedded AJAX in UI to update small portions of the web page avoiding the need to reload the entire page.  ? Created most important Business Rules which are useful for the scope of project and needs of customers.  ? Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  ? Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  ? Used RESTful API for information extraction.  ? Created database using SQLite, wrote several queries to extract data from database.  ? Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  ? Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations.  ? Managed large datasets using Pandas data frames and MySQL.  ? Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  ? Used Jenkins for automation of build process and coordinated deployments across different sites.  ? Developed GUI using webapp2 for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of python code using a web browser.  ? Built development environment with JIRA and SVN.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.2, Pandas, HTML5, CSS, XML, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, Eclipse, Linux, SVN, Bugzilla, MySQL, Apache. Front End Web- Developer DirecTv - Mumbai, Maharashtra July 2008 to October 2010 Worked on Sales CRM Application to create a Shopping cart application for DirecTv products. This application allows users to contact sales service representative to get inner details about location specific deals and discounts along-with offering a quote for the product.    Responsibilities:  ? Worked in a team, involved in developing the UI, layout and front-end programming (HTML) for web application that matches requirements of the company.  ? Excellent Coordination in project activities and ensure that all project phases are followed and documented properly.  ? Extensively involved design discussions and user experience sessions to provide inputs on the layout and UX.  ? Designed the front-end applications, user interactive (UI) web pages using web technologies like HTML, XHTML, and CSS.  ? Developed non-functional HTML, CSS pages from the mock ups and involved in UI review with UI architect and Business Units.  ? Developed GUI using JavaScript, HTML, DOM, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JQuery in ongoing projects.  ? Converted the mock-ups into hand-written HTML, CSS, XHTML, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, XML and JSON.  ? Improved user experience by designing and creating new web components and features  ? Involved in complete SDLC - Requirement Analysis, Development, System and Integration Testing.  ? Followed MVC Structure to develop Application.  ? Handling cross browser/platform compatibility issues (IE, Firefox, and Safari) on both Windows.  ? Managed application state using server and client-based State Management options.  ? Coded Java Script for page functionality and Lightbox plugins using jQuery.    Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Tomcat Apache, JQuery, JSP, Oracle, AJAX, SVN Education Bachelor's degree SDM Institute of Technology Skills AJAX (8 years), CSS (7 years), HTML (8 years), JQuery (8 years), XML (8 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:    Application servers Apache Tomcat, Nginix, J Boss, WebLogic, WebSphere  Databases MySQL, PL SQL, PostgreSQL, Oracle (9i,10g,11g)  Deployment Tools Heroku, Jenkins.  Frameworks Django, Flask, Pyramid, CSS Bootstrap and Struts  IDE's Eclipse, PyCharm, NetBeans and Sublime Text, Brackets  J2EE Technologies JSP, Java Servlets, JDBC and JMS.    Operating Systems Windows, Red hat Linux, Ubuntu, MAC OSX.  Protocols TCP/IP, HTTP/HTTPS, SOAP, SMTP  Programming Languages Python, Java, SQL and PL/SQL  Tracking Tools Bugzilla and JIRA.  Version Control Git (GitHub), SVN, CVS  Web Services AWS, Rackspace Cloud, Amazon S3  Web Technologies HTML, CSS, DOM, SAX, Java Script, JQuery, AJAX, XML, AngularJS