Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer Sunnyvale, CA • Having experience as Python developer with 6 years of IT experience, as strong background in object-oriented programming and Web/Application Developer. Proven ability to design, develop and deliver top-quality, working software on Python, Django. Additional knowledge of statics and machine learning.  • Expertise with software development in Python and IDEs - Sublime text, PyCharm, Eclipse PyDev.  • Web application development using Python 3.x/2.7, Django 1.9, Flask, MongoDB, WSGI, JavaScript, AJAX, HTML, JSON, and template languages.  • Started developing with Django 1.3 beta and currently developing with Django 1.9.  • Deployed production site using Apache 2.2 with mod_ python.  • Utilized Python in handling of all hits on Django Redis and other applications.  • Versatile with Version control systems including Git, SVC, CVS, SourceSafe.  • Implemented dashboard using Django, Redis, Bootstrap, JQuery- AJAX tools.  • Created initial website prototype from a Django skeleton, building out, page views, templates, and CSS layouts for the complete site within the Django framework.  • Developed a simple model to test graph rendering through a rapid prototyping process. Outputting relational data as simple node/ link JSON document.  • Managed and deployed multiple environments to AWS and Rackspace Linux instances and built out overall web infrastructure as need.  • Familiar with REST and AWS (Amazon Web services) in Redshift, EMR for improved efficiency of storage and Proficient in SQL databases MS SQL, MySQL, Oracle and no-SQL databases MongoDB, Cassandra.  • Deep understanding of HTTP and RESTful architecture: Apache, uWSGI.  • Familiar with UNIX / Linux internals, basic cryptography & security.  • Database development with Python SQL, MySQL, PostgreSQL, MongoDB.  • Knowledge of Test Driven Development (TDD), Pair Programming with PyUnit, Junit and Python Unit-test.  • Strongly follow PEP-8 coding standard and familiar with PyLint, PyChecker, PyFlakes tools.  • Supported Integration and QA testing.  • Am extremely productive working on my own, and even more as part of team.    GitHub link: https://github.com/milin1912 Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Valence Surface Technologies - Wichita, KS November 2016 to Present Python Developer APPLE Inc - Sunnyvale, CA June 2016 to Present Sunnyvale, California June 2016 to Present    Apple Inc., is an American multinational technology company that is engaged in the design, develops, manufacturing and sells consumer electronics, computer software and online services.    Descriptions: Working on web applications that provides end to end protocol at ExtraHop component, and generate the SSL certificate to particular hostnames. All the hostnames saved into SQL developer database.    RESPONSBLITIES:  • Worked on live application Caesar which is same as Jira for ticket generate and track all the records of the assigned work.  • Based on this application user can make new request and update request for particular task.  • Developed web applications in Django Framework's model view control (MVC) architecture.  • Developed with Python 2.7 and Django 1.6.2 web frame work.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web based solution.  • Created Restful API's to integrate and enhance functionalities of the application. Also Utilized Restful API in communicating with third parties.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and template language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Managed, developed and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, Oracle DB.  • Used Apache2 web services for these Caesar application.  • Experience with working on Linux server.  • Created scripts for data modeling and data import and export. Extensive experience in deploying, managing and developing Oracle SQL developer clusters.  • Designed and developed the UI for the website with HTML, XHTML, CSS, Java Script, Ajax, jQuery.  • Used jQuery and AJAX calls for transmitting JSON data objects between front end and controllers.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Imported SSL certs from other hosts to new host and properly configured Apache to use certs.  • Experienced in various types of testing such as Unit testing, Integration testing, User acceptance testing, Functional testing.  • Worked on several python packages like Numpy, shutil, Beautiful Soup, Pickle, Python-gitlab.  • Used gitlab distributed version control tool to coordinate team development.    Buzzwords:  Python 2.7, Django 1.6.2, Java script, Radar client, CSS, HTML, HTTP, jQuery, JSON, Oracle SQL developer, REST, Shell scripting, Apple web services, Apache2, Gitlab, Sublime, Pycharm, XML. Python Developer NIKE - Beaverton, OR November 2014 to May 2016 Nike, is an American multinational corporation that is engaged in the design, development, manufacturing and worldwide marketing and sales of footwear, apparel, equipment, accessories and services.    Descriptions: Working on web applications that provide efficient checkout process, with minimize wait times and increase productivity to reduce operational costs.    RESPONSBLITIES:  • Wrote and maintained sites for day to day use for the company including Word and Excel parser to save man hours for the operations of the company.  • Wrote several scripts that bug tracked day to day operations, a site to show all errors from every site as a dashboard, and maintained notifications to the other IT Department for any errors that occurred.  • All applications were developed with Python, Django, and PostgreSQL using JIRA(Agile) methodology.  • Added retry mechanism to API calls using jQuery deferred object and accumulative recursion.  • Design and documentation of RESTful APIs for collection and retrieval of high volume IOT telemetry data.  • Refactored and extended large existing Django/ Python code base by maintaining PEP-8 code standards and fix the bugs.  • Implemented a selectable template structure in Django making it possible to change the HTML layout and design based on site URL and /or domain.  • Actively Working on:  • Comprehensive monitoring architecture for Lodging Operations support application.  • Development and maintenance of Lodging Operations support application.  • Significantly improved report generation efficiency by caching, reusing and improve the security level of Data.  • Developed MVC prototype replacement of current product with Django:  • Improved page load time by 60 times.  • Implemented RESTful API which returns data from PostgreSQL in JSON format.  • Able to scrape data from external sources and put them into a central database.  • Expertise in Python scripts to phase XML documents and load the data in database.  • Design and developed data management system using PostgreSQL.  • Web service integration: customized & integrated med-fusion secure practice portal's Secure Message Web.  • Integrated the user-facing elements developed by front-end developer with server side logic.  • Evangelized the use of web services as a way to implement application integrations.  • Designed and implemented web application server.  • Wrote Junit test cases for unit, integration, and functional tests, run automatically by Hudson/Jenkins in the builds triggered by each push to Git.    Buzzwords:  Agile, CSS, HTML, HTTP, JSON, PostgreSQL, MySQL, REST, Shell scripting, Sublime, Pycharm, SQLite, web services, XHTML, XML. Python Developer VERIZON - Newark, NJ November 2012 to October 2014 Verizon, is a global leader delivering innovative communications and technology solutions that improve the way of customers live, work and play.    Descriptions: Worked on Python and Django web-development application, created the web registration system using Verizon Universal Identity Services APIs. Additionally, maintained device enrollments and device API testing.    RESPONSBLITIES:  • Worked on high level design and detail design Developed GUI using Python, MySQL, HTML, AJAX, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Built application logic using Python, Django and MySQL.  • Used Restful web services for integration with many monitoring devices.  • Developed REST/HTTP APIs for exposing geospatial applications.  • Designed Forms, Modules, Views, and Templates using Django.  • Contributed to development of security policies and processes.  • Installed/configured/maintained Apache servers on all machines (production server and development servers).  • Installed/configured/maintained MySQL database and MongoDB database.  • Developed and enhanced Unicode functionality on character set mapping from input character set to internal character set and from internal set to display set, enhanced OPAC Unicode search performance and browse searches.  • Conducted numerous enhancements for the system and bug-fixing tasks (C/C++, SQL scripts, UNIX Shell).  • Created a JSON update mechanism for pushing data model updates to client.  • Monitored database changes, proposed modification for subsystem-related tables, fields or indexes and developed scripts (SQL, SQL scripts, UNIX shell scripts)    Buzzwords:  REST, CSS, AJAX, HTML, HTTP, JSON, MySQL, UNIX Shell scripting, Sublime, web services, XHTML, Oracle. Python Developer TIAA CREF - Charlotte, NC March 2011 to October 2012 Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association, is a financial services organization that is the leading retirement provider for people who work in the academic, research, medical and cultural fields.    Descriptions: Worked on python application which consisted of operationalizing security solutions to ensure that only actionable data are escalated as security events.    RESPONSBLITIES:  • Develop and maintain standard operating procedures to reflect day-to-day security operations.  • Created script in Python for calling REST APIs.  • REST API development via Django REST Framework:  • Overrode Django Rest Framework internals to allow for more dynamic routing.  • Created authorization scheme which enforced limitations on API clients (with an emphasis on securing user data)  • Actively hunting for and dissecting previously unidentified threats in the environment.  • Collaborate full stack project on Waterfall methodology.  • Designed and documented REST/HTTP APIs, including JSON data formats and API versioning strategy. Used Git to collaborate with other developers.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL with complete data integrity.    Buzzwords:  AJEX, REST, HTTP, JSON, Linux Shell scripting, MySQL, Sublime, web services, XHTML, PostgreSQL, web services, Java-Script.    .Net Developer .Net Developer BANK of BARODA - Mumbai, Maharashtra November 2009 to February 2011 Bank of Baroda, is an Indian multinational banking and financial services holding company.    Descriptions: The project was to build a B2B web application to facilitate ecommerce transactions for construction equipment manufacturers and rental industries and implements the credit card security to for the transaction.    RESPONSBLITIES:  • Team up and communicate with the players on the progress milestones during the daily stand up meetings.  • Contribute in scrum meetings and sizing meeting for the sprint cycles.  • Industrial and user facing front pages using CSS, JavaScript.  • Worked on HTML and JavaScript with integration of UI for developing grids, charts and schedulers.  • Implemented to making browser compatibility.  • Used technologies by the .NET framework including ASP .NET, Web Services using SOAP and manipulation using XML. Design of multiple web APIs.  • Design, Development of Win Forms using C#, JavaScript for the user interface using the Code behind Class technique.    Buzzwords:  .NET Framework, C# .NET, ASP .NET, AJAX, HTML, CSS, web API'S, JavaScript, Win Forms, JSON, SQL Server, Visual Studio. Education Bachelor's Links https://github.com/milin1912 Additional Information SKILLS    Computer Languages    • Python, Unix / Linux Shell Scripting (Bash), C, C++, XML, JavaScript, JQuery, HTML, HTML5, CSS, CSS3    Tools and Systems    • Sublime, PyCharm, NetBeans, JBoss IDE, Eclipse-PyDev, Django 1.9/1.8, FLASK, Pyramid, Spring MVC, Web services, REST, MongoDB, PostgreSQL, Oracle, MySQL, AWS, Redis, Apache, Subversion, Git, SVN, CVS, Maven, Erwin, SSHD, VI, WordPress, AJAX, Visual Studio, Terminal, Notepad++, VMWare, JSON, Microsoft Office, Waterfall, Jira (Agile), Bug, Pylint, PyLint, PyChecker.    Platforms    • Microsoft Windows, OS X, Ubuntu Linux, Debian Linux, Windows Server