Data Analyst/ Python Developer Data Analyst/<span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Data Analyst/ Python Developer - Maestro Health * Over 7 years of experience in IT industry on analytical programming using Python, R programming, Django, Flask, Database design and agile methodologies.  * Experience with Statistics, Data Analysis using Python and R language.  * Experienced in SQL programming and creation of relational database models.  * Experienced in creating cutting edge data processing algorithms to meet project demands.  * Experience in Data collection, Data Extraction, Data Cleaning, Data Aggregation, DataMining, Data verification, Data analysis, Reporting, and data warehousing environments.  * Experience in object oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, PHP.  * Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  * Experience and Technical proficiency in Designing, Data Modeling Online Applications, Solution Lead for Architecting Data Warehouse/Business Intelligence Applications.  * Expertise in designing Conceptual, Logical and Physical Data Models for various environments and business processes.  * Strong understanding of the System Architecture and the data flow from various systems. Used Visio for creating process and data flow diagrams.  * Extensive experience in designing Normalized Data Model by business process by use cases.  * Performed Data mapping between source systems to local systems, logical data modeling, created class diagrams and ER diagrams and used SQL queries to filter data.  * Expertise in usage of Django Framework for developing web applications. Good knowledge in establishing database connections for Python by configuring packages MySQL- Python.  * Worked with Developers and DBAs for requirements gathering, analysis, and testing to implement fixes for identified data and customer issues, metrics and project coordination.  * Define project requirements by identifying project milestones, phases and elements; forming project team; establishing project budget.  * Monitor project progress by tracking activity, resolving problems, publishing progress reports; recommending actions.  * Prepare technical reports by collecting, analyzing and summarizing information and trends.  * Contribute to team effort by accomplishing related results as needed strategic and business planning within the various departments and programs of the client group  * Good experience of software development in Python (libraries used: libraries- Beautiful Soup, PySpark, Numpy, Scipy, Matplotlib, asyncio, python-twitter, Pandas data frame, network, urllib2, MySQL for database connectivity) and IDEs -sublime text, Spyder, pycharm, pytest.  * Experience in using Design Patterns such as MVC, Singleton and frameworks such as DJANGO. Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  * Good knowledge on NoSQL databases like Cassandra, MongoDB.  * Worked with Chef to aid with deployment process and migrating in house systems to Amazon Cloud Services.  * Experience in working on generating various dashboards to Tableau Server using different data sources such as Teradata, Oracle, MS Excel etc.  * Expertise in Data Blending concepts in Tableau Desktop and creating/Publishing interactive dashboards.  * Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database. Good experience in Shell Scripting, SQL Server, UNIX and Linux.  * Developed and optimized ETL workflows in both legacy and distributed environments. Work Experience Data Analyst/ Python Developer Maestro Health - Chicago, IL March 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  * Complete development and expertise in Rest framework in Django. Involved in Developing a Restful service using Python Django framework.  * Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework with GIT.  * Designing Celery and multithreading for scheduling the tasks and multiple activities.  * Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture.  * Expertise in code review for the code developed by team and suggesting the relevant and appropriate changes.  * Dealing with client regarding the requirements of the projects and taking care of production issues and bugs.  * Experience in various modules like rest framework, mock, asyncio, freezgun, Numpy etc.;  * Perform Jenkins administration, updating plugins, setting up new projects and debugging build problems.  * Implemented the Machine learning libraries like numpy, pandas, scipy and matplotlib for the evaluation of some algorithms and Data Visualization.  * Worked on designing and deploying a multi-tier application utilizing almost all of the main services of the AWS stack like S3 focused on high - availability, fault tolerance environment. Used AWS to automate backups of ephemeral data-stores to S3 buckets.  * Worked on to migrate data from on premise databases to Confidential Redshift, RDS and S3. Adapting the functionality in S3 and Redshift to allow incremental loading by adding staging layer and scripting SQL code to integrate staged data with the files.  * Optimized long running queries by reducing the amount of blocking transformations, minimizing data duplication, and exploiting the features of Redshift such as the use of distkeys, sortkeys, key references and more.  * Scripted advanced SQL queries in Postgresql for Redshift and MySQL leveraging Common Table Expressions, sub-queries, correlated sub-queries, window functions and complex join logic.  * Develop Interactive front end to visualize data from backend and represent in graphical manner to better understanding for user.  * Front End coding using Angular.js using modules like angular material, angular aria, angular paging, angular google maps, etc.  * Developed the entire project using PostgreSQL. Migrating from other databases to PostgreSQL.  * Expertise in developing web-based open stack applications using Python and Django for large dataset analysis.  * Experience with Redis in memory database project with data types for values such as strings, lists, hashes and sorted sets. Operations that are unique to those data types are provided come with well documentated time-complexity (Big O notation).  * Worked on PowerShell for the purposes of automation and also made use of command line shell and shell scripting.  * Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database, also worked on Python ETL file loading and use of regular expression.    Environment: Python 2.7/3.5, PyQuery, HTML5, CSS3, Angular 2.0, Shell Scripting, JSON, REST, Apache Spark, Django, SQL, UNIX, Linux, Windows, NoSQL, PostgreSQL, PySpark, Numpy, Tensorflow, SQLAlchemy, AWS. Python Developer Advisor Group - Woodland Hills, CA January 2017 to February 2018 Responsibilities:  * Performed exploratory data analysis using numpy, matplotlib and pandas  * Worked on quantitative analysis, data mining, and the presentation of data to see beyond the numbers and understand trends and insights.  * Experience analyzing data with the help of Python libraries including Pandas, Numpy, SciPy and Matplotlib.  * Configured AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) Groups and Users for improved login authentication.  * Conduct systems design, feasibility and cost studies and recommend cost-effective cloud solutions such as Amazon Web Services (AWS).  * Creating complex SQL queries and scripts to extract and aggregate data to validate the accuracy of the data and Business requirement gathering and translating them into clear and concise specifications and queries.  * Prepared high-level analysis reports with Excel and Tableau. Provides feedback on the quality of Data including identification of billing patterns and outliers.  * Experienced in web applications development using Django/ Python, .NET/C#, Flask/ Python, Linux and Node.js, Angular.js, ember.js, jQuery, Ajax while using HTML/CSS/JS for server-side rendered application.  * Expertise in developing web-based open stack applications using Python and Django for Bigdata analysis and also using PySpark.  * Identify and document limitations in data quality that jeopardize the ability of internal and external data analysts and Wrote standard SQL Queries to perform data validation and created excel summary reports (Pivot tables and Charts) as well as gathered analytical data to develop functional requirements using data modeling and ETL tools.  * Created(Extract ,Transform ,Load) ETL design mapping sheets , data reconciliation strategy, data archival strategy- ETL framework ,stored procedures and built SQL query objects to detect data loss.  * Performed data testing, tested ETL mappings (Transformation logic), tested stored procedures, and tested the XML messages.  * Performed data analysis using goggle API's and created visualizations such as pie charts, waterfall charts and displayed in the web application  * Extensive knowledge in loading data into charts using python code.  * Using High charts, passed data and created interactive JavaScript charts for the web application  * Extensive knowledge in using python libraries like OS, Pickle, numpy and scipy.  * Used Bitbucket for version control and coordinating with the team.    Environment: Python (2.x,3.x), PyQuery, HTML, AWS, CSS3,Django, SQL, UNIX, Linux, Windows, Oracle,NoSQL, PostgreSQL, PySpark, Numpy, Pandas, Sccipy, JavaScript, API, ETL Tool, Python Developer Genfare - Elk Grove Village, IL July 2015 to November 2016 Responsibilities:  * Involved in Developing a RESTful webservice using Python Django framework.  * Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework with GIT.  * Designing Celery and multithreading for scheduling the tasks and multiple activities.  * Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture.  * Using ANT, Puppet/ Chef Scripts with Ivy to build the application and deploy.  * Configured AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) Groups and Users for improved login authentication.  * Conduct systems design, feasibility and cost studies and recommend cost-effective cloud solutions such as Amazon Web Services (AWS).  * Updated and managed SharePoint site for each CCAR cycle that is utilized for CCAR communication, storage of key CCAR files including business models, and automatic audit trail that is sent to internal audit team.  * Test-Driven Development approach was used and Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database. Worked on SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS) and SQL Lite.  * Experience in report writing using SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS) and in creating various types of reports like table, matrix, and chart report, web reporting by customizing URL Access.  * Front-end web development using HTML/CSS, JQuery, Bootstrap as well as back-end development using Golang and SQL.  * Designing and tightly integrating Flash into the CMS with the use of FlashVars stored in the Django models. Also created XML with Django to be used by the Flash.  * Used Test driven approach for developing the application and Implemented the unit tests using Python Unit test framework.  * Responsible for all Public (AWS) and Private(OpenStack/VMWare/DCOS/Mesos/Marathon) cloud infrastructure.  * Supported development team with deployment workflow and continuous integration using Gitlab, GitLab CI, Rundeck, Docker and SaltStack provisioning.  * Involved in the Complete Software development life cycle (SDLC) to develop the application.  * Used Test driven approach for developing the application and Implemented the unit tests using Python Unit test framework with Machine learning.  * Created Branches, Labels and performed Merges in Stash and GIT.  * Administering Code Repositories in SVN and Bit bucket. Experience in providing QE estimates.  * Followed Agile development methodology to develop the application.  * Used Test driven approach (TDD) for developing services required for the application. Implemented Integration test cases.    Environment: Python 2.7, PyQt, PyQuery, HTML5, CSS3, DOM, Angular.js, Shell Scripting, JSON, Rest, ApacheSpark Web Server, Selenium, Django, Celery, Flash, Docker, SQL, UNIX, Windows, PostgreSQL, SQL SSIS, Linux, Splunk, Hadoop, PySpark, Numpy, SQLAlchemy. Python Developer Nielsen - Oldsmar, FL February 2014 to June 2015 Responsibilities:  * Worked with the Stakeholders, gathered requirements developed high level design documents.  * Have used Python libraries like NumPy/ SciPy, Pandas for market analysis and done some machine learning using Python.  * Analyzed various logs that are been generated and used various Python libraries to predict/forecast next occurrence of event with various Python libraries.  * Used Django framework in developing web applications to implement the model view control architecture (MVC).  * Refactored and extended large existing Django/ Python code base, reducing the number of lines in code and duplication significantly.  * Wrote Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  * Experience with working on software changes based on the natural call flow with the customer, instead of letting the system dictate the call flow.  * Experienced in hand-coding HTML5, YAML CSS3, JavaScript, Linux and other UI technologies.  * Experienced in web applications development using Django/ Python, .NET/C#, Flask/ Python, Linux and Node.js, Angular.js, ember.js, React.js, D3.js, jQuery, Ajax while using YAML, HTML/CSS/JS, HTTP, Apache for server-side rendered application.  * Query Optimization through MYSQL server tools for quick response time and using Golang.  * Experience with automation of linear call flows, instead of static so the agents have access to an adaptive user interface.  * Designed and Developed DB2 SQL Procedures and UNIX Shell Scripts for Data Import/Export and Conversions.  * Wrote Python scripts to parse JSON documents and load the data in database and also used python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  * Responsible to set up REST API frame work using Django, Flask.  * Developed, designed, managed dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, PostgreSQL API calls.  * Performed some operations, visualization on Oracle DB using libraries like MatPlotlib, Pandas.    Environment: Python 2.7, NumPy, SciPy, Scikit, PySpark, Dockers, Pandas, C++, JSON, Oracle DB, MySQL, DB2, PL/SQL, NoSQL, Splunk, Hadoop, Redis, Linux, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, Apache Web Server, Django 1.4 Python Developer CMC Limited - Hyderabad, Telangana February 2013 to December 2014 Responsibilities:  * Involved in reviewing and understanding the Business requirements.  * Wrote scripts to Import and Export data to CSV, EXCEL formats from different environments using Python and made a Celery action using REST API call.  * Designed the user interactive web pages as the front-end part of the web application using various web technologies like HTML, JavaScript, Angular JS, JQuery and implemented CSS framework Bootstrap for better appearance and feel.  * Developed remote integration with third party platforms by using RESTful web services.  * Developed web services that make database calls for inserts, updates, and select queries.  * Developed Unit, Integration and Performance Test Cases using Junit, Selenium and Rational Function Tester.  * Improved code reuse and performance by making effective use of various design patterns.  * Used Python library BeautifulSoup for webscrapping. Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and SQL.  * Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  * Deployed the project into Heroku using GIT version control system.  * Developed methods for Create, Read, Update and Delete (CRUD) in Active Record.  * Expertise in creating and developing applications for android operating system using Android Studio, Eclipse IDE, SQLite, Java, XML, Android SDK and ADT plugin.  * Worked on Angular JS to augment browser applications with MVC capability.    Environment: Python, Celery, mod python, Angular, JQuery, JavaScript, AJAX, HTML/XHTML, XML, MsSQL server, T-SQL, Jasper, GIT, Reports, RESTful, Linux, Android OS Android 1.5 to Android 6.0 Software Developer Reliable Soft - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2012 to January 2013 Responsibilities:  * Adopted agile methods for development & delivery of the solution and participated in complete life cycle of the project (SDLC).  * Worked on WebSphere as application deployment servers. Worked on MVC pattern, using various frameworks.  * Designed the Database, written triggers and stored procedures.  * Developed screens based on JQuery to dynamically generate HTML ad display data to the client side.  * Written Struts services and DAOS in the service layer for SQL data retrieval operations using JDBC.  * Demonstrated Experience and advocate for test-driven development.  * Worked on JavaScript frame work to augment browser based applications with MVC capability.  * Worked on front-end and back-end application development. Have upgraded additional functionalities and services with the use cases provided.  * Involved in development of various controller classes as a part of MVC framework.  * Worked in referential data service module to interface with various databases using JDBC.  * Implemented REST and SOAP based web services and published using JAX-WS.  * Worked on Database Schemas, HTML and XML services.  * Worked on Oracle Database to store and retrieve information using SQL Developer.  * Worked on Eclipse IDE's for build, debugging and deploy it using Apache Tomcat.  * Developed Build Script using MAVEN. Involved in unit testing and run test cases.    Environment: JavaScript, JQuery, Struts, Eclipse, SQL Developer, Oracle Database, JDBC, Template, WebSphere, SOAP UI, Maven, REST, Windows. Education Master's in Computer Science in Computer Science Fairleigh Dickinson University Skills Django, Hadoop, Hdfs, Python, Flask Additional Information Technical Skills:    Languages Python(numpy,Pandas,NLTK,Scikitlearn,Matplotlib),R,SQL,Matlab,Hadoop.  Data Sources HDFS,SQL Server, Excel  Data Visualization R, Python, MS Power BI, Tableau  Operating Systems UNIX, Linux, Solaris, Windows, DOS, VMware  PythonWeb Frameworks Django, Pyramid, Flask, web2Py.  Database Postgre SQL, MS Access, SQL Server, MYSQL and Sybase, Oracle, DB2, JDBC, ODBC  Cloud Platforms AWS  Reporting Tools MS Office (Word/Excel/Power Point/ Visio), Tableau.  Repository Github, BitBucket using source tree, EventHub.