Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - Eli Lilly Indianapolis, IN • 8 years of experience in developing and designing Web Based, Multi-tier distributed applications using latest analytical programming Python, Django, Flash, JAVA, J2EE and spring technologies.  • Hands on experience working in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python/PHP) Architecture.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, PHP, XML, CSS, HTML, Java Script and JQuery.  • Experienced in Python's modules Numpy, matPlotLib, Pickle, PySide, Scipy, wxPython, PyTables etc. for generating complex graphical data, creation of histograms etc.  • Written and developed scripts for automating tasks using Jenkins and UNIX shell programming  • Performed Unit testing, Integration Testing and generating of test cases for web applications using Junit and Python Unit test framework.  • Expertise in practicing the SDLC models, Agile methods with Scrum, Extreme Programming, Ticketing systems using JIRA and TDD  • Familiar and Worked on various Operating Systems like UNIX (Sun Solaris, AIX), Linux and Windows.  • Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  • Experience in using UNIX shell Scripts for automating batch programs.  • Good experience in developing web applications and implementing Model View Control (MVC) architecture using server side applications like Django, Flask and Pyramid  • Proficient in developing complex SQL queries, Stored Procedures, Functions, Packages along with performing DDL and DML operations on the database.  • Expert in using JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database  • Knowledge of deployment tools using Heroku, Jenkins, pylint, cpp Check and Coverity  • Worked on AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP Serializable JSON strings.  • Familiarity with development best practices such as code reviews, unit testing, system integration testing (SIT) and user acceptance testing(UAT)  • Expertise in working with GUI frameworks - PyJamas, Jython.  • Experienced in NoSQL technologies like MongoDB, Cassandra and relational databases like Oracle, SQLite, PostgreSQL, Dynamo DB and MySQL databases  • Performed code reviews and implemented best Pythonic programming practices  • Experience in writing test scripts, test cases, test specifications and test coverage.  • Good experience in handling errors/exceptions and debugging the issues in large scale applications. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Python Developer Eli Lilly - Indianapolis, IN August 2017 to Present The Computational Chemistry group within Lilly Research Laboratories (LRL) has a substantial amount legacy code written in C / C++, Ruby, Perl and bash. The C / C++ programs provide lowest level of functionality, with any programs written Ruby, Perl and bash sitting one layer above consuming the output. This legacy code will need to be refactored and / or rewritten to align with LRL IT architectural and DevOps best practices.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in the development of front end of the application using Python 2.7, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JSON and JQuery and worked on backend of the application, mainly using Active Records.  • Used data structures like directories, tuples, object oriented class based inheritance features for making complex algorithms of networks.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML and JSON reports and load the information in database.  • Shell Script wrapper developed for Python, Perl and Ruby to run this application along with other applications.  • Extensively worked with XML Schemas (XSD) for defining XML elements and attributes  • Developed Web Services using SOAP, SOA, WSDL Spring MVC and developed DTDs, XSD schemas for XML (Parsing, processing, and design) to communicate with Active Directory application using Restful API  • Development of several Python APIs that works both in Linux and windows and maintaining them using the revision control GIT.  • Strong Knowledge in scripting technologies like Python, Scala, Shell, Groovy on Grails and Perl.  • Authentication with partner systems through Simple Assertion Markup Language (SAML 2.0)  • Hands on experience on Active Directory, LDAP and Single Sign-On (SSO) Integration.  • Developed SQL loader scripts to load data from various forms of flat files into staging tables in Oracle database using Shell Scripts.  • Worked on Jenkins continuous integration tool for deployment of project. Played a key role in a development wide transition from Subversion to GIT, which resulted in increase in efficiency for the development community  • Deployed the project into Heroku using GIT version control system.  Environment: Python 2.6, Scipy, Pandas, Bugzilla, SVN, C++, Java, JQuery, MS SQL, Visual Basic, Linux, Eclipse, Java Script, XML, JASPER, PL/SQL, Oracle 9i, Shell Scripting, HTML5/CSS, Apache. Sr. Python Developer Comcast - Philadelphia, PA January 2016 to July 2017 Responsibilities:  • Designed the front end of the application using Python, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON and JQuery, Django.  • Used the Django Framework to develop the application.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Used Test driven approach for developing the application and Implemented the unit tests using Python Unit test framework.  • Involved in implementing the complete Application in the in-build Spring MVC Architecture with Angular JS.  • Used JavaScript and JSON to update a portion of a webpage.  • Used Selenium Library to write fully functioning test automation process that allowed the simulation of submitting different requests from multiple browser to web application.  • Worked on several Palettes such as SOAP, REST, HTTP, FTP, JDBC, File, JMS etc.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile)  • Wrote Python scripts to parse JSON documents and load the data in database.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Implemented web applications in Flask frame works following MVC architecture.  Worked on front end frame works like CSS Bootstrap for development of Web applications.  • Also, created XML with Django to be used by the Flask  • Deployed the Django application on NGINX along with CI/CD tools and docker.  • Involved in deployment of project using AWS.  • Special skills in developing user friendly, simple yet effective web based applications.  • Worked in MySQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization and DE normalization.  • Used many regular expressions to match the pattern with the existing one.  • Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  • Performed Unit testing, Integration Testing, web application and automation testing.  • Taken part in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all its commands.  Environment: Python 2.7 and 3.5, Django 1.6.1, Selenium , HTML-5, CSS-3, XML, MySQL, JIRA, JavaScript, Angular JS, Backbone JS, JQuery, CSS Bootstrap, Mongo DB-3.2, MS SQL Server-2014, T- SQL, Eclipse, Git, GitHub, AWS, Linux, Shell Scripting. Python Developer Core logic - San Diego, CA August 2013 to December 2015 Responsibilities:  • Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Worked extensively with Bootstrap, JavaScript, and jQuery to optimize the user experience.  • Used Selenium Library to write fully functioning test automation process that allowed the simulation of submitting different we request from multiple browser to web application.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile)  • Used JQuery for all client side JavaScript manipulation.  • Created unit test/regression test framework for working/new code  • Using Subversion control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Built development environment with JIRA, Stash/Git.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application  • Created data access using SQL and PL/SQL stored procedures.  • Performed Unit/System test.  Environment: Python 2.6, Scipy, Pandas, Bugzilla, SVN, C++, Java, JQuery, MS SQL, Visual Basic, Linux, Eclipse, Java Script, XML, JASPER, PL/SQL, Oracle 9i, Shell Scripting, HTML5/CSS, Apache. Python Developer Concentrix Insurance Solutions - Greenville, SC November 2011 to July 2013 Responsibilities:  • Developed the application using Agile methodology and Scrum method of project management.  • Developed web applications in Django Framework's model view control (MVC) architecture.  • Performed efficient delivery of code based on principles of Test Driven Development(TDD) and continuous integration to keep in line with Agile Software  Methodology principles.  • Different testing methodologies like unit testing, Integration testing, web application testing  • Developed test scripts for automation with Selenium.  • Python/Django based web application, Postgre sql DB, and integrations with 3rd party email, messaging, storage services.  • Build development environment with JIRA.  • Also Created Angular JS controllers, directives, models for different modules of the application.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins,  MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash  • Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, Oracle DB, PostgreSQL, and VMWare API calls.  • Helped maintain existing Python (Django and Flask) applications. Interfaced with infrastructure services like Amazon AWS (S3, SQS) and used tools like Solr, RabbitMQ.  • Familiar with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web Services (AWS).  • Used Pandas library for statistics Analysis.  • Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  • Developed GUI using webapp2 for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of python code using a web browser.  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  • Responsible for user validations on client side as well as server side.  • Interacted with QA to develop test plans from high-level design documentation  Environment: Python, Django1.4, HTML/CSS, MS SQL Server 2012, MySQL, Script, Eclipse, GIT, GitHub, AWS, Linux, Shell Scripting. Java Developer Solvent Software Solutions PVT LTD - Hyderabad, Telangana September 2010 to October 2011 Description: Our Project is a Web based application interfacing with web applications modules for frontend and backend applications. We perform the operations for which manipulating the frontend and backend sources. This involves maintaining the application and fixing the issues coming in and rectifying the same. To implement the same, we have implemented Struts, CSS, HTML, JSP, Servlets and SQL  Responsibilities:  • As a Java Programmer, worked on creating custom mechanism by using CSS, HTML and JavaScript and used Controls and Repeaters for data sets.  • Qualified in UNIX shell scripting as part of the implementation process.  • Was part of writing SQL queries, PL/SQL stored procedures, involved in modifications to the existing database structure.  • Expertise SVN as the version control tool for the Code to commit and fetch.  • Actively worked on developing the automatic build scripts by using ANT for application to organize and test in Servers.  • Worked using XML documents with XSLT and CSS to interpret the content into HTML also validated XML using DTD's and XSD's.  • Was responsible for designing object model diagrams and data model diagrams to meet the business necessities.  • Worked on the presentation layer of the application with the help of servlets and JSPs. Engrossed in writing JUnit 3 Test Cases for unit testing various modules of application.  • Was responsible to write stored procedures and add new paper types, concluding options to the database.  • Proficiency in using Eclipse Galileo IDE for application progress.  Environment: Java1.6, Struts 1.x, J2EE, HTML, JavaScript, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, Eclipse, XML, XSLT, XSD, EJB, Ant, JUnit, Tomcat, Windows XP, UNIX, Oracle10g, CSS style sheets. Python Developer Nova IT Solutions - Hyderabad, Telangana July 2009 to August 2010 Responsibilities:  • Worked on MVC architecture using PHP, Python as controller.  • Developed the whole application from front end to back end.  • Worked on MySQL, PostgreSQL for data management.  • Worked on Django for developing Web Applications.  • Developed a web server which can handle HTTP 1.0 requests and implemented that server for a small project. This server is designed to handle only particular requests for security concern.  • Developed both the servers in Python.  • Worked on packages like socket, REST API, Django.  • Worked on graphical passwords which is used for authentication purposes - used python as the controller in this project.  • Handled the client requests personally end to end.  • Used Git for version control.  • Delivered all the deliverables on time.  Environment: Python, HTML, Java Script, CSS, Git, Sublime, Django, Flask, socket, MySQL, PostgreSQL. Skills CSS (8 years), HTML (8 years), Git (7 years), PYTHON (7 years), SQL (7 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:    Frameworks Django, web2py, Flask, Struts, pylons and CSS Bootstrap    Technologies HTML, CSS, DOM, SAX, Java Script, JQuery, AJAX, XML, Angular JS  Programming Languages C, C++, Python-3.5 & 2.7, Java, SQL and PL/SQL. Perl,Ruby  Python Libraries  Python, Django, Flask, Beautiful Soup, httplib2, Jinja2, HTML/CSS, Bootstrap, jQuery, Numpy, matPlotLib, Pickle, PySide, Scipy, wxPython, PyTables, pdb    Version Control GIT (GitHub), SVN, CVS, Bitbucket.  Databases Oracle, MySQL, PostgreSQL, MongoDB,  IDE's/ Development Tools Py Charm, and Sublime Text.  Web Services AWS, Rackspace Cloud, Amazon S3,NGINX    Operating Systems Windows, Red hat Linux, MAC OSX.  Protocols TCP/IP, HTTP/HTTPS, SOAP, SNMP, SMTP, REST.  Deployment Tools Heroku, Jenkins  Tracking Tools Bugzilla and JIRA.    Methodologies Agile, Scrum and Waterfall