Full Stack Python Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Python Developer - Fresenius Medical Care, MA MA • Over 7 years of IT Experience in designing, developing, testing and implementing various stand-alone and client-server architectures based enterprise application software on different domains.  • Experience in developing web applications and implementing MVC architecture using Django web application frameworks.  • Having experience in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Experience in Infrastructure Development and Operations involving AWS Cloud platforms.  • Experience in project deployment using Jenkins and worked on Jenkins for continuous integration.  • Automated the process of launching and stopping/terminating EC2 instances on Amazon AWS.  • Used Python fabric for AWS instance provisioning.  • Experienced with build automation tools like Ant.  • Experience in designing frontend layouts on the web using HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery and Bootstrap.  • Experience in MVC frameworks like AngularJS and jQuery.  • Proven ability to analyze and understand complex systems, take them apart and put them back together again, only better, and with fewer lines of code.  • Expertise in Object-Oriented design and coding. Good knowledge of various Design Patterns and UML.  • Worked on several python packages like NumPy.  • Worked on several libraries such as UnitTest, JSON, CSV, and XML.  • Experience in Database optimization and developing stored procedures such as Triggers, Cursors, Joins, Views and SQL for various databases like MySQL, Oracle.  • Exceptional skills in Agile and Test Driven Development.  • Hands on experience in SVN, Git, GITHUB, JIRA, CVS, Perforce, Jenkins.  • Experienced in working with various Python Integrated Development Environments like PyCharm, PyStudio, Sublime Text.  • Good Experience in Linux Bash shell scripting and following PEP Guidelines in Python.  • Designed REST/HTTP APIs, including JSON data formats and API versioning strategy.  • Proficient in developing Web Services (SOAP, RESTful) in Python using XML, JSON.  • Proficient in using Python HTTP APIs like Requests.  • Work experience for protocols in layer2 and up in the OSI stack including TCP/IP protocol stack, routing/switching algorithms.  • Experience in implementing and working on the python code using shell scripting. Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes.  • Experienced in various types of testing such as Unit testing, Integration testing, User acceptance testing and Functional testing.  • Experience in Open Stack APIs and Socket Programming.  • Experience in using UNIX shell Scripts for automating batch programs.  • Experience in programming and management in LINUX and UNIX environments. Work Experience Full Stack Python Developer Fresenius Medical Care, MA January 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in all the phases of SDLC and responsible for object-orientated analysis/object-orientated design and also worked closely with the business analyst's in gathering, understanding and implementing the requirements.  • Elaborated use cases, interface definitions and services specifications in collaboration with Business and System Analysts.  • Worked on Agile development methodology and built the application with Test Driven Development (TDD).  • Implemented REST APIs using Python and Django framework.  • Developed web-based applications using Python, Django, XML, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, AngularJS and jQuery.  • Worked on server side applications with Django using Python programming.  • Worked at optimizing volumes and EC2 instances and created multiple VPC instances.  • Utilized Amazon Glacier for archiving data.  • Automated Regular AWS tasks like snapshots creation using python scripts.  • Implemented presentation layer using CSS framework, AngularJS and HTML5.  • Responsible for setting up AngularJS framework for UI development.  • Developed frontend of application using Bootstrap (Model, View, Controller), Angular.js framework.  • Worked on WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, Python /PHP) Architecture.  • Worked on Python OpenStack APIs and used NumPy for Numerical analysis.  • Developed Wrapper in Python for instantiating multi-threaded application.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to created user-friendly website interface.  • Used JIRA for bug tracking and issue tracking.  • Developed the project in Linux environment.  • Work concentrated on TCP/IP stack and PPP protocol for establishing data connection with the network.  • Used Agile Methodology and SCRUM Process.  • Maintained the versions using GIT and sending the release notes for each release.  Environment: Python3.0, Django1.9, AWS, AngularJS, Bootstrap, Javascript1.8, jQuery1.10, JSON, HTML5, CSS3, MySQL5.5, Linux, Ajax, Git2.0. Sr. Python Developer Hughes Networks - Germantown, MD March 2014 to January 2016 Responsibilities:  • Gathered and analyzed the requirements and converted them into User Requirement Specifications and Functional Requirement Specifications for the designers and developers to understand them as per their perspective.  • Worked on Angular JS to create single page applications (SPA) using its features like routers, Controllers, Services, Directives.  • Good Experience with Django, a high-level Python Web framework.  • Worked on object oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, Django and Linux.  • Developed web-based applications using Python, Django, XML, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, Angular JS and JQuery.  • Familiar with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web Services (AWS).  • Worked on Amazon services like Amazon Cloud EC2.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Worked in agile and waterfall methodologies with high quality deliverables delivered on-time.  • Experience with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins.  • Experience with Unit testing/ Test driven Development (TDD), Load Testing.  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  • Involved in Unit testing and Integration testing.  • Worked on AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings.  • Practical experience with working on multiple environments like development, testing, production.  • Excellent analytical and problem solving skills and ability to work on own besides being valuable and contributing team player.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django, REST Web services, XML, CSS, AngularJS, JSON, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, AWS EC2. Python Developer Manheim Inc - Atlanta, GA May 2013 to February 2014 Responsibilities:  • Developed web applications and RESTful web services and APIs using Python, Django and PHP.  • Automated data movements using Python scripts. Involved in splitting, validating and processing of files.  • Worked on HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AngularJS, NodeJS, Git, REST API, Mongo DB, IntelliJ IDEA.  • Developed UI screens using HTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Maintained the versions using GIT and sending the release notes for each release.  • Design and Setting up of environment of MongoDB with shards and replica sets. (Dev/Test and Production)  • Designed Cassandra schema for the APIs.  • Carried out various mathematical operations for calculation purpose using Python libraries NumPy and Scipy.  • Utilized continuous integration and automated deployments with Jenkins, Ansible and Docker.  • Automated JIRA processes using Python and bash scripts.  • Various static/media files along with database were hosted into Amazon cloud and support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS was added.  • Participated actively in unit testing, integration testing and GUI.  • Worked with JSON based REST Web services.  • Information extraction was done by using RESTful API.  • To fetch data of definite options that are selected, Python routines were written to log into websites.  • Automated AWS S3 data upload / download using Python scripts.  • Used JIRA for tracking and updating the project issues.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.9, Jenkins, MongoDB, Linux, HTML, CSS, jQuery1.7, JavaScript, NodeJS, PHP, Apache, Linux, Git2.0, Docker, AWS S3. Python Developer DTCC - New York, NY November 2012 to May 2013 Responsibilities:  • Interacting with the business analysts to gather the requirements and understanding the functional design specifications for the requirements.  • Involved in the Design, development, test, deploy and maintenance of the website.  • UI was developed using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed single page application using Backbone.js along with JQuery.  • Responsible for setting up Python REST API framework using DJANGO.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python modules like math, glob, random, itertools, functools  • Developed Wrapper in Python for instantiating multi-threaded application.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to created user-friendly website interface.  • Responsible for search engine optimization to improve the visibility of the website.  • Used D3.js library for visualizations like transitions, line charts and bar graphs.  • Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  • Designed and developed the presentation layer/client end and handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  • Wrote validation scripts in SQL to validate data loading.  • Use Git for version control.  • Performed Unit and system testing.  • Trained users and did production support.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.9, MySQL, HTML, CSS, jQuery1.7, JavaScript, Node.JS, PHP, Apache, Git2.0. Java/ Python Developer RBS India January 2011 to October 2012 Responsibilities:  • Interacting with the business analysts to gather the requirements and understanding the functional design specifications for the requirements.  • Involved in software development life cycle including analysis, design, development, Unit testing, refactoring and documentation of the application using Java.  • Prepared Technical Design Document to understand the flow of the application.  • Used online Agile scrum development process during the project process to gather up the requirements and issues.  • Used JIRA to fix and track the workflow.  • Developed web GUI involving HTML, NodeJS, JavaScript under MVC architecture.  • Developed classes using core Java (multithreading, concurrency, memory management)  • The database used was SQL, Java and PL/SQL.  • Was responsible for developing packages with procedures, functions, cursors, table partitions for populating tables.  • Created database objects like Stored Procedures, Tables, Views, Sequences, Cursors, Packages and Triggers.  • Entire Applications are developed in Eclipse and deployed in the JBoss Server.  • Used Perforce for source code repository and version controlling.  • Involved in code reviews and enhancement of application.  • Tested the application in different environments for cross browser compatibility.  • Successfully executed all the test cases and fixed any bugs/issues identified during the test cycles.  Environment: Python, Java (JEE 5), JavaScript, JQuery, REST API's, Html5, MongoDB (NoSQL), CSS, JBoss 6.0EAP, Node JS, Perforce, Windows 2000/XP, Unix, Maven, Eclipse Juno, SQL Developer, JIRA. Java Developer Neon Infotech PVT LTD August 2009 to December 2010 Responsibilities:  • Involved in analysis, implementation and testing.  • Participated in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  • Performed key role in designing and developing enterprise J2EE applications using RAD.  • Participated actively in writing project design documents, models and use case documents using RSA. Writing DDL, DML statements and populating the Oracle database SQL/PL-SQL.  • Responsible for the performance PL/ SQL procedures and SQL queries.  • Developed user interfaces using JSF framework by using CBD Components, JSP.  • Involved in the design and developing of various modules using CBD Navigator Framework.  • Developed various Mid-Tier services using DAO, Transfer Objects, Factory and Session.  • Developed the presentation layer and GUI framework in JSP and Client-Side validations were done.  • Developed the front-end components using HTML, DHTML, Java Scripts, and JSP.  Environment: Java 1.5, J2EE, JavaScript, JSF, Web Sphere, Java Persistence API (JPA), HTML, DHTML, JSP Servlets, SQL, PL/SQL. Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Languages C, C++, Python, Java  Frameworks Django, AngularJS, Bootstrap  Python Libraries NumPy, UnitTest, CSV  Scripting Python, Shell  Databases SQLite, My SQL, Oracle  Web Technologies HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap, Ajax, XML  Cloud AWS, Open Stack  Operating Systems Windows, Linux  Continuous Integration Jenkins  Text Editor/IDE PyCharm, PyStudio, IDLE, Sublime Text2  Code maintenance Tools CVS, SVN, GIT, GITHUB  Programming Methodologies Agile, Waterfall  Build Tools Ant, Maven  Protocols TCP/IP