Senior Python Developer Senior <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Python Developer - Verveba Richardson, TX • 7+ years of experience in Design, Development, Implementation of Python, Django, Javascript, and client-server technology based applications.  • Extensive experience in system analysis, design, development & implementation of web based & client/server application using HTML, Angular JS, BootStrap, underscore JS, Node JS, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, JSP, JDBC, XML, XSLT, Django, PHP, Python.  • Experienced in developing web based applications using HTML/HTML5, DHTML, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, JQueryUI, Angular JS, XML and JSON.  • Designed and implemented large scale business critical systems using Object oriented Design and Programming concepts using Python and Django.  • Worked on several standard python packages like Numpy, matPlotLib etc.  • Worked on various applications using python integrated IDEs Eclipse, PyCharm, Sublime, Pystudio, Pyscripter and NetBeans.  • Used Test driven approach for developing the application and Implemented the unit tests using Python Unit Test Frame.  • Used Git to resolve and coding the work on python.  • Write Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Good experience in developing web applications and implementing Model View Control (MVC) architecture using server side applications like Django and AngularJS.  • Implemented responsive web pages using HTML5/CSS3, Bootstrap & XML/JSON based SOAP and REST web services.  • Excellent working knowledge in UNIX and Linux shell environments using command line utilities.  • Experience in developing web services (WSDL, SOAP and REST) & consuming web services with python programming language.  • Experience in writing test scripts, test cases, test specifications and test coverage.  • Possess good interpersonal, analytical presentation Skills, ability to work in Self-managed and Team environments, fast learner and organized self-starter.  • Experience with R language and MATLAB for data analysis.  • Good experience in handling errors/exceptions and debugging the issues in large scale applications.  • Experience in working on Application Servers like WebSphere, WebLogic, Tomcat, Web Servers like Apache Server, NGINX and Integrated Development Environments like PyCharm, Eclipse, MyEclipse, JDeveloper and RAD.  • Experience in Agile development techniques and Test Driven Developments.  • Participated in all phases of the System Development Life Cycle Analysis (SDLC).  • Remarkable knowledge of design, normalization and Database Management Concepts.  • Extensive experience in SQL, PL/SQL programming, stored procedures, triggers and Query optimization, also written queries for insert, update and modification operations. Performed database normalization and optimization using database tools.  • Extensive analytical, logical and programming skills, Self Motivated, Self Starter, and Team Player.  • Ability to grasp new technologies and to correctly apply new tools to build applications.  • Strong communication skills, time management and Team skills with an intention to work hard to meet project deadlines. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Python Developer Verveba - Richardson, TX September 2015 to Present Verveba is a small company which works in telecommunication domain. The project in it involves extracting campaign data from Oracle database and loading into Teradata Data warehouse. The Campaign results can be analyzed online with various options and reports can be printed.  Responsibilities:  • Associated with various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the application like requirement gathering, Design, Analysis and Code development.  • Developing Python Framework using Django to perform scan software unit monitoring.  • Designed the front end of the application using Python.  • Design and development of user interfaces and client displays using Java Script, JSP, CSS and troubleshoot various issues in Python code and fix them with code enhancements- code used various python libraries such as PyJamas and Jython.  • Built various graphs for business decision making using Python matplotlib library.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Worked on developing internal testing tools which were written in Python.  • Design of a toolkit for building embedded domain-specific languages in C++ using expression templates.  • Developed the front-end featuring rich web interface using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and used JQuery framework for UI centric AJAX behavior.  • Implemented dynamic page elements and form error validations using AngularJS.  • Developed server side application and server side validations using Django framework.  • Performed validations for input fields making use of mainly Active Records.  • Knowledge of cross-browser and cross-platform development of HTML and CSS based websites in Windows like IE 6, IE 7, IE 8 and FF.  • Implemented MVC architecture in developing the web application with the help of Django framework.  • Associated with working cloud computing platforms like Openstack.  • Built various graphs for business decision making using Python Matplotlib library.  • Fetched twitter feeds for certain important keyword using python-twitter library.  • Developed applications especially in LINUX environment and familiar with all of its commands.  • Analysis and Design of application.  • Implemented business logic using Python/Django.  • Responsible for setting up Python REST API framework using Django.  • Implement code in python to retrieve and manipulate data.  Environment: Python 3.x, Django 1.4, MySQL, Linux, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, Apache Web Server, Git, Linux. Senior Python Developer Touchstone - Mason, OH July 2014 to August 2015 This project mainly involved in developing the web application using python 2.7 version and Django framework in frontend application. Connected the application to AWS using amazon beanstalk using Django framework to run the application on server.  Responsibilities:  • Analyzed & gathered business requirements specifications by interacting with client & understanding business requirement specification documents.  • Developed the presentation layer using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery and AJAX.  • Used JQuery libraries for all client side JavaScript manipulations.  • Utilized Python libraries wxPython, numPY, Twisted and matPlotLib.  • Implemented SQL Alchemy which is a python library for complete access over SQL.  • Worked on ElementTree XML API in python to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Skilled in collections and used for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to created user-friendly website interface.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Created entire application using Python, Django, MySQL and Linux.  • Installed, configured, and managed the AWS server.  • Used Amazon Elastic Beanstalk with Amazon EC2 to deploy project into AWS.  • Entailed setting up Saltstack to run AWS.  • AWS data pipeline for Data Extraction, Transformation and Loading from the homogeneous or heterogeneous data sources.  • Accessed database objects using Django Database APIs.  • Worked on python based test frameworks and test driven development with automation tools.  • Experience in continuous integration and automation using Jerkins.  • Strong experience working with real time streaming application and batch style large scale distributed computing applications using tools like Spark Streaming.  • Implemented advanced procedures like text analytics and processing using the in-memory computing capabilities like Apache Spark written in Scala.  • Deployed the project into Heroku using GIT version control system.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Took part in the entire project's lifecycle which includes Design, Development and Deploying, Testing, Implementation and support.  • Used Design patterns efficiently to improve the code reusability.  • Coordinated with the offshore development team and assisted them when required.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.6, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, MYSQL, Linux, Heroku, GIT.va, JQuery, MySQL, Oracle 11.2, Linux, Django, Eclipse, Shell Scripting, HTML5/CSS. Red hat Linux, Apache. Python Developer Chicago, IL October 2013 to June 2014 This project mainly involved in developing the web application using python PHP, NodeJS and Django for frontend API. Connected the application to database using MySQL and PHP.  Responsibilities:  • Used SDLC process and used PHP to develop website functionality.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, NodeJS, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework on MySQL.  • Used Django APIs for database access.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL. Built application logic using Python 2.7.  • Used Django APIs for database access.  • Used Python to extract weekly hotel availability information from XML files using underscore JS.  • Parsed XML file using Python to extract data from database.  • Participated in requirement gathering and worked closely with the architect in designing and modeling.  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures, trigger and function on MYSQL.  • Developed shopping cart for Library and integrated web services to access the payment (E-commerce).  • Designed and developed a horizontally scalable APIs using Python Flask.  • Designed Cassandra schema for the APIs.  • Developed shopping cart for Library and integrated web services to access the payment.  • Used Php language on lamp server to develop page.  • Developed dynamic interaction page on .net MS visual basic-2014, using SQL developer tools.  Environment: Python 2.6/2.7, JavaScript, Django Framework 1.3, SQL, MySQL, LAMP, JQuery, Adobe Dreamweaver, Apache web server, PHP, Lamp, underscore JS. SQL developer tool. Python Developer PayPal - San Jose, CA October 2012 to September 2013 Development of Python/Django based applications work with cross-functional team to identify issues and propose solutions write reusable, testable, and efficient code. Providing help in enhancing and maintaining Python-based framework identify problems and create solutions addressing speed, scale, quality and usability development, bug fixing and managing new application modules.  Responsibilities:  • Developed Views and Templates with Django view controller and template language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Configured the Django admin site, dashboard and created a custom Django dashboard for end users with custom look and feel. Used Django APIs for database access.  • Used Python and Django for XML, JSON processing, data exchange and business logic implementation.  • Built database Model, Views and API's using Python for interactive web based solutions.  • Used Python scripts to update the content in database and manipulate files.  • Created UI using JavaScript and HTML5. Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Worked in MySQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization and renormalization.  • Worked on Jenkins continuous integration tool for deployment of project.  • Played a key role in a development wide transition from Subversion to Git, which resulted in increase in efficiency for the development community.  • Developed most of the application part in Linux environment and very much familiar with all of its commands.  • Used TKinter to implement GUI for the user to create, modify and view reports based on client data.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Implemented RESTful Web-Services for sending and receiving the data between multiple systems.  • Used Python Library Beautiful Soup for webScrapping.ss.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Developed, tested and debugged software tools utilized by clients and internal customers.  • Coded test programs and evaluated existing engineering processes.  Environment: Linux, Python 2.7, 2.5, Django 1.7, 1.5, HTML5, XML, JavaScript, JQuery, MS SQL Server, Amazon s3, Jenkins, Mongo DB, Beautiful soup, Eclipse, Git, GitHub, JIRA. Python Developer PNB Bank - IN April 2010 to September 2012 The objective of the Smart Connect Monitoring and Analysis System (SCMAS) project is to provide the Smart Connect Operations Center (SOC) with tools to ensure the efficient and reliable operation of the Smart Connect system.  Responsibilities:  • Used Django framework for application development.  • Created entire application using Python, Django, MySQL and Linux.  • Involved in working with Python open stock API's.  • Developed applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all of its commands.  • Embedded AJAX in UI to update small portions of the web page avoiding the need to reload the entire page.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format. Worked with UNIX like OS on regular basis.  • Improved code reuse and performance by making effective use of various design patterns.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working with new code.  • Build SQL queries implementing functions, packages, views, triggers, and tables.  • Involved in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support. Maintaining the scripts using the SVN version Control.  • Maintaining customer database using MS EXCEL.  • Proactively worked with managers and development staff to meet project goals within expected timelines.  Environment: Python, Django, JSON, AJAX, JQuery, SQL, MySQL, Java Script, UNIX, Agile, GIT, SVN, SOAP, Eclipse. Java / SQL Developer Cenvien Technologies - IN August 2009 to March 2010 Worked on developing UI pages for Cenvien Technologies. The job includes using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JSON and jQuery using Sybase ASE server. Worked on testing API using selenium package using python  Responsibilities:  • Involved in developing the UI pages using HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript, JSON, jQuery, Ajax.  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) such as requirements gathering, modeling, analysis, design and development.  • Performed Design, involved in code reviews and wrote unit tests in Python.  • Designed the database schema for the content management system Performed Design and Code reviews.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Generated Use case diagrams, Activity flow diagrams, Class diagrams and Object diagrams in the design phase.  • Responsible for entire data migration from Sybase ASE server to Oracle.  • Migration of API code written for Sybase to Oracle.  • Overlook the migration activity of PL/SQL programs.  • Migration of the PL/SQL code from Sybase to Oracle.  • Migration of the data contained in the earlier ASPL Database from Sybase to Oracle.  • Migrate the Libraries written using Sybase API's to Oracle's OCCI API's.  • Automation of testing using Python.  Environment: Python, Java, JDBC, XML, PL/SQL, SQL, web services. Education Masters in Electrical and Electronics Engineering in Electrical and Electronics Engineering JNTU Skills AJAX (6 years), Django (7 years), JQuery (7 years), MySQL (7 years), Python (7 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Programming Languages Python 3x/2.7/2.6, Java  Python Framework Django, Pyjamas, Jython, CSS Bootstrap  Databases MySQL, SQL Server and Oracle.  Web Technologies JavaScript, HTML, CSS, AngularJS, XML, Ajax, JQuery, HTML, CSS3  Networking Socket Programming, TCP/IP  IDE's/ Development Tools PyCharm, PyScripter, PyStudio, SublimeText.  SDLC Methodologies Agile  Web Servers Apache, IIS  Operating systems Linux/Unix, Windows-98/NT/2000/XP/2003/Vista,  Testing Tools Selenium