Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - New Mexico Highlands University Edison, NJ • Over 6 (SIX) years of experience in the field of software development. Proficient in developing applications using Python, Java and C++.  • Experience in IT industry with proficiency in Analysis, Design & Development Testing of Enterprise Applications and Database Development using, Python, Django, Flask and SQL projects.  • Experienced in complete Software Development Life Cycle, and major aspects of technological projects including Requirement Analysis, Design, Development, Database Design, Deployment, Testing, Debugging, and Application Maintenance.  • Experience of dealing with various development methodologies like Waterfall, Scrum, and Agile.  • Experienced with WAMP (Windows, Apache, MySQL, and Python) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python) Architecture.  • Experience of using Python modules like NumPy, Matplotlib, Pickle, Pandas, SciPy, wxPython, PyTables, PyQt, etc., for generating complex graphical data, creation of histograms, etc.  • Skilled in Object-Oriented Design and Programming using Python and Java.  • Experienced in using Python, Django, Java, C++, XML and JSON for developing web applications.  • Experienced in implementing Model View Control (MVC) architecture using server-side applications like Django and Flask for developing web applications.  • Experienced with JSON based RESTful web services, and XML based SOAP web services.  • Worked on various applications using python integrated IDEs like Eclipse, IntelliJ, Sublime Text and PyCharm.  • Experience of working with relational databases like SQLite, PostgreSQL, MySQL, DB2 and non-relational databases.  • Proficient in developing complex SQL Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, Functions, and Packages along with performing DDL and DML operations on the database.  • Worked on various Operating Systems like UNIX, Linux, Windows, and Mac OS.  • Experienced with version control systems like Git and GitHub in order to keep the versions and configurations of the code organized.  • Experienced with Unit Testing, System Integration Testing (SIT) and User Acceptance Testing (UAT).  • Experience in handling errors/exceptions and debugging issues in large scale applications.  • Good team member and attitude towards learning new technologies.  • Highly motivated, dedicated, quick learner and have proven ability to work individually and as a team.  • Excellent written and oral communication skills with results-oriented attitude. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer New Mexico Highlands University - Las Vegas, NM January 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Managed routine activities of the labs and supported students with their project work.  • Update and maintain software and hardware.  • Wrote python script for face tracking system using OpenCV and artificial neural network.  • Developed server-side for android car assistance app using Flask, Bluetooth, picamera and pyfirmata.  • Wrote python script for interactive poem by Naima Yael Tokunow shown in Santa Fe art exhibit using PyGame, math, sockets and OpenCV.  • Wrote python script to compare performance between support vector machine and deep neural network using Scikit-learn and NumPy.  • Designed and developed Android News TV app using android native language and YouTube API to stream 7 news channels live feedback.  • Designed and developed Android app as client-side for Car assistance system using Bluetooth, JSON, Camera, sockets and with Google Maps Android API to display car location.  • Designed and developed Android app to work as barcode reader using tesseract, Bitmap and camera.  Environment: Python 3.2, Android, Java, C++, Flask, Android Studio, Pycharm. Software Developer / Python Main Street De Las Vegas - Las Vegas, NM August 2017 to December 2017 Responsibilities:  • Update and maintain website: www.mainstreetlvnm.org.  • Participated in winning "vote your main streets" award.  • Assisted in implementing social media strategy to encourage tourism to Las Vegas. Software Developer HMA SOFT - Cairo, EG September 2015 to December 2016 Responsibilities:  • Wrote Python routines to log into the websites and fetch data for selected options. Used Python modules such as requests, urllib, urllib2 for web crawling.  • Used other packages such as Beautifulsoup for data parsing.  • Worked on writing and as well as read data from CSV and Excel file formats.  • Developed a MATLAB algorithm which determines an object's dimensions from digital images.  • Web-services backend development using Python (CherryPy, Django, SQLAlchemy).  • Participated in developing the company's internal framework on Python. This framework became a basement for the quick service's development. Framework based on CherryPy with GnuPG encryption (GnuPG module) on the top.  • Worked on resulting reports of the application and Tableau reports.  • Worked on HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Git, REST API, Mongo DB, IntelliJ IDEA.  • Performed QA testing on the application.  • Developed approaches for improving NLP pipeline.  • Held meetings with client and worked all alone for the entire project with limited help from the client.  • Created database using MySQL, wrote several queries to extract data from database.  • Setup automated cron jobs to upload data into database, generate graphs, bar charts, upload these charts to wiki, and back up the database.  • Wrote scripts in Python for extracting data from HTML file.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.8, XML, MySQL, MS SQL Server, Linux, Shell Scripting, urllib, urllib2, JSON, CherryPy, Unix, Redis. Python Developer HMA SOFT - Cairo, EG September 2013 to December 2016 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for Design and maintenance of databases using Python. Developed Python based APIs (RESTful Web services) by using Flask.  • Designed test cases and test plans and developed an embedded software data-driven test automation framework in Linux/ Python.  • Worked with various python libraries such as Pandas and matPlotLib for analysis and manipulation of data.  • Wrote Python scripts in order to parse and load the data into the database, from the XML and JSON files, and wrote programs for performance calculations by using NumPy and SQL Alchemy.  • Used REST based microservices with REST template based on RESTful APIs  • Migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  • Dealt with large datasets by using Pandas data frames and MySQL and performed dynamic implementation of SQL server work on the website using SQL developer tool.  • Developed Merge jobs in Python in order to extract and load data into MySQL database and used Test driven approach for developing applications.  • Implemented the unit testing by using Python Unit test framework.  Environment: Python 3.2, Django, MySQL, Git, GitHub, Linux Shell Scripting. Python Developer HMA SOFT - Cairo, EG December 2013 to September 2015 Responsibilities:  • Developed Python-based API (RESTful Web Service) to track the events and perform analysis using Django.  • Involved in development using Python, bug fixing and unit testing of the layout commands.  • Dealt with development of parsers for handling JSON, XML responses and JAXB binding and worked with JMS (java messaging service) for asynchronous communication.  • Created a Python/Django based web application using Python scripting for data processing, MySQL for the database, and HTML/CSS/jQuery and HighCharts for data visualization of the served pages.  • Developed web-based applications using Python, Django, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series, in a tabular format, for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Published and Consumed Contract SOAP web services and developed corresponding test cases.  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast HTTP server.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Performed debugging and troubleshooting the web applications using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  Environment: Python, Django, MS SQL Server 2013, MySQL, Eclipse, Linux, Shell Scripting, GitHub. Python Developer Genericonn Technologies Ltd - Cairo, EG September 2012 to September 2013 Responsibilities:  • Participated in the development of application architecture and blueprints to define application components.  • Specification of platforms, interfaces and development tools.  • Used Python scripts for automation of production tasks.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python.  • Rewrite existing Java application in Python module to deliver certain format of data.  • Was responsible for analyzing various cross-functional, multi-platform applications systems enforcing Python best practices and provide guidance in making long term, scalable architectural design decisions.  • Used PyQuery for selecting particular DOM elements when parsing HTML.  • Created PyUnit test scripts and used for unit testing.  • Worked with JSON based REST Web services.  • Used Github for version control.  • Actively participated in System Testing, production support and maintenance/patch deployments.  Environment: Python Django, PyUnit, PyQuery, PyQt, GitHub and Windows. Education Master's Skills Javascript, ASP, Android, MySQL, PHP