Python developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">developer</span> Python developer - Marsh AND McLennan Agency King of Prussia, PA • Over 8 years of experience in design, development, testing and implementation of various stand-alone and client-server architecture based enterprise application software in Python on different domains.  • Experience in developing web applications implementing Model View Templatearchitectureusing Python 2.7/2.6/3.4, Django 1.4/1.3 web application frameworks.  • Working Knowledge in Multi-Tier distributed Enterprise applications, OOAD concepts, good understanding of Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC).  • Working experience with libraries - Beautiful Soup, numpy, scipy, matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas dataframe, networkx, urllib2, MySQL dB for database connectivity) and IDEs - sublime text, eclipse, pycharm, emacs,Jupyter  • Experienced in NoSQL technologies like MongoDB, Cassandra and relational databases like Oracle, SQLite, PostgreSQL and MySQL databases.  • Experienced in monitoring, developing and transforming data using SQL Server Integration Service (SSIS) and SQL Server Analysis Service (SSAS).  • Working knowledge of Python ORM SQLAlchemy  • Experience in developing applications using amazon web services like EC2, Cloud Search, Elastic Load balancer ELB, S3, CloudFront, Route 53  • Knowledge in working with continuous deployment using Heroku and Jenkins.  • Experience on Ruby Reg-Ex for pattern and Text matching.  • Development Experience in Linux (CentOS, Debian, Ubuntu), Mac OS  • Familiar with Shell Scripting (bash), Perl  • Proficient in writing unit testing code using Unit Test/PyTest and integrating the test code with the build process.  • Continuously manages multiple deadlines and competing priorities through proactively planning and managing tasks and resources.  • Detailed oriented and resourceful in the completion of projects with an ability to multitask and meet strict deadlines.  • Willingness to work in a highly dynamic environment and ready to take up challenges. Work Experience Python developer Marsh AND McLennan Agency - King of Prussia, PA October 2015 to Present A global professional services firm, with businesses in insurance brokerage, risk management, reinsurance services, talent management, investment advisory, and management consulting  Responsibilities:  • Analysis and Design of application.  • Created UI usingJavaScript and HTML5/CSS.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Implemented business logic using Python/Django.  • Created backend database T-SQL stored procedures.  • Worked with millions of database records daily, finding common errors and bad data patterns and fixing them.  • Exported/Imported data between different data sources using SQL Server Management Studio.  • Maintained program libraries, users' manuals and technical documentation.  • Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Built various graphs for business decision-making using Python matplotlib library.  • Fetched twitter feeds for certain important keyword using python-twitter library.  • Used Python Library Beautiful Soup for web scrapping.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud, Open stack.  • Deployed with Fabric on AWS on EC2 instance with Postgres RDS and S3 file storage.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  • Work with team of developers on python applications for RISK management.  • Taken part in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Experienced in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM Process.  • Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all its commands.  • Refactored existing project to make it more RESTful and thread-safe.  • Added unit tests and improved existing ones.  • Designed RESTful XML web service for handling AJAX requests.  Environment: Python 3.4, Django1.7, HTML5/CSS, UNIX, MS SQL Server 2013, T-SQL, Jasper, Reports, JavaScript, Eclipse, Linux, Shell Scripting, RESTful, Amazon AWS S3 CLI. Python Developer Baxter Healthcare, Roundlake, IL October 2014 to September 2015 Baxter Healthcare develops, manufactures, and markets healthcare equipment and instruments and provides services to clients.  Responsibilities:  • Responsible for analyzing various cross-functional, multi-platform applications systems enforcing Python best practices and provide guidance in making long term architectural design decisions.  • Coded model level validation using Python programming with emphasis in web security.  • Handled Business logics by backend Python programming to achieve optimal results.  • Implemented jQuery to improve the overall usability of the website interface and AJAX functionality to speed up web application.  • Developed views and templates in Django to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Configured Django to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Extensively used Python / Django Framework for developing backend of web applications.  • Used Django APIs for database access.  • Developed web services using Restful technology to support JSON and XML.  • Created new connections through applications for better access to MySQL database and involved in writing SQL & PLSQL - Stored procedures, functions, sequences, triggers, cursors, object types etc.  • Designed RabbitMQ/MongoDB pipeline for routing/storing of email bounce handling records.  • Implemented AJAX to update necessary section of webpages and hence, avoiding the need for reloading the entire web page.  • Developed and tested many features in an Agile environment using Python, Django, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap.  • Creating and configuring virtual development environments with Chef and Virtual Box.  • Managed code with unit tests and GitHub.  • Developed Capistrano scripts to automate deployment on various environments.  • Used GIT as Source control repositories with regular code reviews and pull/merge requests.  • Used Design patterns efficiently to improve the code reusability.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.7, CSS, HTML, Bootstrap, JavaScript, AJAX, JQuery, Pandas, MYSQL, Restful API's, Linux, Servlets, JavaBeans, SCRUM, Agile, Heroku, JIRA, GIT. Python Developer Blue Cross and Blue Shield - Baton Rouge, LA August 2013 to September 2014 Blue Cross Blue Shield Association is a federation of 36 separate United States health insurance organizations and companies, providing health insurance in the United States.  Responsibilities:  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Created APIs, database Model and Views Utilization Python to build responsive web page application.  • Used python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Redesigned existing task management systems using Python.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Implemented and enhanced CRUD operations for the applications using the MVC (Model View Controller) architecture of Django framework and Python conducting code reviews.  • Efficient database management, optimization and caching.  • Used PETL package to extract, Transform and Load tables of data.  • Used Python, JQuery, JavaScript, AJAX at the front end.  • Involved in design, implementation and modifying the Python code and MySQL database schema on-the back end.  • Deploy and monitor scalable infrastructure on Amazon web services (AWS) & configuration management using puppet.  • Used PUTTY for debugging and connect to my remote files in server securely using SSH Encryption (public key and private key) and WinSCP to transfer files between local and remote folders and change file permissions.  • Utilized Object Oriented Programming in JavaScript and DOM structure to implement various functionalities.  • Used JIRA for bug tracking and issue tracking.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django (1.4/1.6), MSSQL, MongoDB, HTML, JavaScript, JSON, XML, JQuery,, Restful, CSS, , XHTML, MVC architecture, PUTTY, SSH, WinSCP, JIRA. Python Developer Flagstar Bank - Troy, MI October 2011 to June 2013 Flagstar Bank, a federally chartered stock savings bank. It is the largest publicly traded savings bank in Michigan and also a leading mortgage lender and a national leader in the wholesale mortgage business.  Responsibilities:  • Developed Python scripts to read from Excel files, generate XML configuration files and for generating IP access frequency lists in different data logs.  • Responsible for the design and development of different web-based applications based on clients requirements.  • Designed email marketing campaigns and also created responsive web forms that saved data into a database using Python / Django Framework.  • Learned new technical skills as required for the system like Django, CherryPy and Flask Frameworks.  • Developed applications using CherryPy, Flask ( Python frameworks )  • Learnt to deploy projects using Jenkins.  • Utilized Pandas - python library for analyzing data and data structures.  • Managed large datasets using Pandas data frames and SQLite  • Learned about the Model-View-Controller (MVC) design pattern  • Performed front-end development for web initiatives to ensure usability, using HTML and CSS.  • Tested all completed work to ensure proper and error free functionality  • Enhanced quality, feel, and usability of consumer-facing website  • Wrote Use Case diagrams, Class diagrams Sequence Diagrams, and State Diagrams.  • Collaborated with a team of instructors and programmers to develop the curriculum and guidelines for workshops to teach the logic of programming.  • Designed manuals, workbooks, and other printed media for reference purpose.  • Created and executed custom SQL queries and stored procedures and also created an application to stored client phone calls and emails that were routed to various developers.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.2, Pandas, CherryPy, Flask, SQLite, Jenkins, HTML, CSS. Python/Java Developer Creehan & Company October 2010 to September 2011 Healthcare technology industry's leading third-party provider of SaaS and on-premise enterprise-wide software application platforms and implementation services for standalone specialty pharmacies and other industry players  Responsibilities:  • Involved in preparing Design documents.  • Developed and maintained Python code required for the web application.  • Involved in writing out the Error Handling for different applications.  • Developed application to authorize a particular user.  • Implemented MVC architecture using Spring Framework.  • Worked on RabbitMq framework to receive messages from message queuing and printing on the screen.  • Developed UI related pages using XWT Framework by DOJO objects.  • Used Hibernate for Object Relational Mapping.  • Incorporated Log4j mechanism for proper logging of all stages of the process.  • Created unit testing of the modules created and run integration testing to test the end-to-end flow of the process developed.  • XML messages were used to communicate between web services that are written using SOAP and WSDL.  • Published methods as web methods using JAX-WS and used SOAPUI for testing these web services.  • Developed and deploy application in JBoss application server.  • Used Eclipse IDE for code Development along with GIT Hub for managing the code.  Environment: Python 2.7, RabbitMq, XWT, DOJO, Hibernate, unit testing, XML, WSDL, SOAP, JAX-WS, JBoss, GIT, IDE. Java Developer LinkwellTelesystemsPvt Ltd - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2009 to September 2010 Responsibilities:  • Involved in the full software development life cycle of the project from analysis and design to testing and deployment.  • Extensively used core Java Collections, Generics, Exception Handling, and Design Patterns for functionality, such as portfolio summary and user information.  • Implemented various database connections using JDBC.  • Designed E-R graphs and relationship among different database tables, Creation tables with low coupling.  • Wrote PL/SQL Queries, stored procedures, triggers and prepared statements.  • Developed graphical user interface by using JSP, HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Implemented user input validations using JavaScript and jQuery.  • Developed test cases and performed unit test using JUnit Framework.  • Built code using Eclipse and deploy it using Apache Tomcat.  • Used Agile Methodology for the development of the project.  Environment: Java, Html, CSS, JavaScript, JSP, JDBC, SQL, Junit. Education Bachelor of Technology in Electrical and Electronics Engineering Birla Institute of Technology Skills CSS (7 years), PYTHON (6 years), XML (6 years), SQL (6 years), HTML (5 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:    Operating systems Windows, Ubuntu  Languages Java, C, Python, R, Perl, Ruby,C#  Scripting languages CSS, AJAX, Java Script, JQuery, PHP,Shell Scripting  Analytics Tools JMP PRO, SAS, Tableau, UCI NET, NodeXL  Markup languages HTML, XML, JSON  Servers Apache Tomcat, IBM Web sphere, RESTfulweb services  Databases MS SQL SERVER,Oracle, My SQL, query languages: PL,SQL  IDEs/ Tools Eclipse, PyCharm, Sublime text, Spyder  Revision Controlling Systems SVN, Git  Methodologies & tools Object Oriented Programming, UML, Agile Scrum  MS office tools Microsoft Excel, Microsoft word, Microsoft PowerPoint, PPTPlex