Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Equifax Seven years of IT experience, as strong background in object-oriented programming and Web/Application Developer. Proven ability to design, develop and deliver top-quality, working software on Python, Django.    CORE QUALIFICATTIONS  • Professional experience with software development in Python and IDEs - Sublime text, Py-Charm, Eclipse  • Web application development using Python 3.x/2.x, Django, Flask, MongoDB, JavaScript, and template languages.  • Organized production site using Apache Servers with mod Python and AWS.  • Started developing with Django 1.3 beta and currently developing with Django 1.9.  • Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS, Media Query, Sass, JavaScript, and Bootstrap  • In depth knowledge of HTTP and RESTful architecture.  • Created restful API's for various applications using open source software.  • Proficient in SQL, Queries, Join, Stored Procedures, Cursors, Functions etc.  • Skilled in SQL databases MS SQL, MySQL, PostgreSQL, Oracle and no-SQL databases MongoDB, Cassandra.  • Implemented dashboard using Django, Bootstrap, JavaScript, AJAX tools.  • Designed initial website prototype from a Django skeleton, building out, page views, templates, and CSS layouts for the complete site within the Django framework, HTML5, CSS3.  • Established a simple model to test graph rendering through a rapid prototyping process. Outputting relational data as simple node/ link JSON document.  • Experienced with ORM programming technique converting data between incompatible type systems in OOP languages.  • Familiar with UNIX / Linux internals, basic cryptography & security.  • Knowledge of Test Driven Development (TDD)  • Strongly follow PEP-8 coding standard    Computer Languages  Python, UNIX / Linux Shell Scripting (Bash), XML, HTML, HTML5, CSS, CSS3, JavaScript    Tools and Systems  Sublime, PyCharm, NetBeans, Eclipse-PyDev, Django, FLASK, Pyramid, Spring MVC, Hiberate, Web Services, REST, MongoDB, PostgreSQL, SQLite, Oracle, MySQL, AWS, Git, Apache Subversion, CVS, Maven, SSHD, JavaScript, AJAX, Terminal, Notepad++, JSON, Microsoft Office, Waterfall, Bug, Junit, PyLint, PyChecker.    Platforms  Microsoft Windows, OS X, Ubuntu Linux, Debian Linux, Windows Server Work Experience Python Developer Equifax - Charleston, SC October 2015 to Present EQUIFAX is a consumer credit reporting agency that helps individual and companies build their financial future by making informed decisions.  My project was based on managing customer information and improving customer service. Customers gain real-time billing visibility and full control over account service changes.    RESPONSBLITIES  • All applications were developed with Python, Django, and PostgreSQL using JIRA (Agile) methodology.  • Refactored and extended large existing Django/ Python code base by maintaining PEP-8 code standards and fix the bugs.  • Wrote several scripts that bug tracked day to day operations, a site to show all errors from every site as a dashboard, and maintained notifications to the other IT Department for any errors that occurred.  • Used several python libraries like wxPython, numPY, Jython and matPlotLib.  • Used Agile Methodology and SCRUM Process.  • Versatile with Version control systems including Git and SVN  • Implemented RESTful API which returns data from PostgreSQL in JSON format  • Design and documentation of RESTful APIs for collection and retrieval of high volume IOT telemetry data.  • Actively Worked on Comprehensive monitoring architecture for Lodging Operations support application.  • Implemented a selectable template structure in Django making it possible to change the HTML layout and design based on site URL and /or domain.  • Used Plotly to create python powered dashboard.  • Good experience in developing responsive website using HTML, CSS and JavaScript  • Development and maintenance of Lodging Operations support application.  • Significantly improved report generation efficiency by caching, reusing and improve the security level of Data.  • Developed MVC prototype replacement of current product with Django Improved page load time by 60 times.  • Expertise in Python scripts to phase XML documents and load the data in database.  • +Evangelized the use of web services to implement application integrations.    Environment  Agile, CSS3, HTML5, HTTP, JSON JavaScript, PostgreSQL, AWS, REST, Shell scripting, Sublime, PyCharm, Web Services, XHTML, XML. Python Developer Walmart - Bentonville, AR July 2014 to September 2015 WALMART is a multinational retail corporation that operates department stores and grocery stores. Walmart is the world's largest company by revenue, as well as the largest private employer in the world with 2.2 million employees    My project was based on service management systems with a focus on tracking inventory.    Responsibilities:  • Developed and designed automation framework using Python and Shell scripting.  • Involved in analysis and design of the application features.  • Worked with team of developers on python applications  • Developed, tested, deployed and maintained the website.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Rewrote existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, CSS, AJAX, and JavaScript  • Actively involved in analysis of the system requirements specifications and involved in client interaction during requirements specifications.  • Used Agile Methodology and SCRUM Process.  • Used GIT for the version control.    Environment:  Python, Django, UNIX, Linux, Gitlab, Sublime (IDE), MySQL, HTML/CSS, JavaScript. Python Developer Blizzard Entertainment - Irvine, CA March 2013 to June 2014 BLIZZARD ENTERTAINMENT, Inc. is an American video game developer and publisher based in Irvine, California.  My project was managing various project teams. I used Gantt Charts to setup schedules across timelines highlighting multiple dependencies and various milestones. Visual reports were created for executive team and management.    Responsibilities:  • Wrote multiple programs in Python to monitor virtual machine usage data using VMWare API calls.  • Wrote a program to use REST API calls to interface with backup server, and parse output reports of an excel file in python to monitor customer backup usages.  • Built a Django web Django application to analyze custom twitter trends.  • Fixed bugs with HTML and JavaScript codes and worked on resolving browser compatibility issues.  • Built database structure and wrote Postgre SQL queries.  • Built Django and REDIS servers for data storing.  • Built web journal with framework and Jinja templates.  • Built Instagram similar web application with Django, WSGI, and Nginx.  • Configured two Ubuntu Open LDAP servers with replication.  • Configured Microsoft Active Directory Server and Microsoft Domain Controller  • Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, PostgreSQL, and VMWare API calls.  • Wrote a program to monitor Virtual Machine performance data using VMWare API's.    Environment:  Python, Django, AWS, Flask, Jinja, HTML, JavaScript, WSGI, Fabric, PostgreSQL Python Developer CNBC - Los Angeles, CA September 2011 to February 2013 CNBC is one of the world's leading media and entertainment companies in the development, production, and marketing of entertainment, news, and information to a global audience. CNBC owns and operates a valuable portfolio of news and entertainment television networks, a premier motion picture company, significant television production operations, a leading television stations group, and world-renowned theme parks.  I worked on project to unlock the value of ecosystem with social collaboration capabilities. The application allows to discover, follow and connect to enable knowledge sharing across the enterprise. It also allows advanced innovative thinking with real time discussions.    RESPONSBLITIES  • Worked on high level design and detail design Developed GUI using Python, Django, HTML, JavaScript, AJAX, and CSS  • Built application logic using Python, Django and MySQL.  • Implemented database access using Django ORM.  • Good in process, validate, parse, and extract data from .xml file  • Used Restful web services for integration with many monitoring devices.  • Developed REST/HTTP APIs for exposing geospatial applications.  • Designed Forms, Modules, Views, and Templates using Django.  • Contributed to development of security policies and processes.  • Designed and implemented the virtual environment.  • Installed/configured/maintained Apache servers on all machines (production server and development servers)  • Installed/configured/maintained MySQL database.  • Conducted numerous enhancements for the system and bug-fixing tasks (C/C++, SQL scripts, UNIX Shell)  • Created a JSON update mechanism for pushing data model updates to client.  • Monitored database changes, proposed modification for subsystem-related tables, fields or indexes and developed scripts (SQL, SQL scripts, UNIX shell scripts)    Environment  REST, CSS, VMware, Python, Django, JavaScript, AJAX, HTML, HTTP, JSON, JUnit, MySQL, pyTEST, UNIX Shell scripting, Sublime, Web Services, XHTML Python Developer Dish Digital - Salt Lake City, UT December 2010 to August 2011 DISH DIGITAL provides satellite television and internet access to approximately 14 million subscribers. It Leads the pay-TV industry in state-of-the-art equipment and technology.  I worked on creating and managing the web based application for a smart TV    RESPONSBLITIES  • Develop and maintain standard operating procedures to reflect day-to-day security operations.  • Created script in Python for calling REST APIs.  • REST API development via Django REST Framework.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Overrode Django Rest Framework internals to allow for more dynamic routing.  • Actively hunting for and dissecting previously unidentified threats in the environment.  • Collaborate full stack project on Waterfall methodology.  • Designed and documented REST/HTTP APIs, including JSON data formats and API versioning strategy. Used Git to collaborate with other developers.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL with complete data integrity.    Environment  JavaScript, AJAX, REST, HTTP, JSON, Linux Shell scripting, SQLite, MySQL, Sublime, XHTML, Web Services. Software Developer Future Shop - Burnaby, BC June 2009 to November 2010 Descriptions: Future Shop was a Canadian electronics store chain. Best Buy bought Future Shop in 2001 andin 2015 consolidated all stores to Best Buy.  I was a team member involved in developing core modules like search content and content detail page. The job extensively involved design discussions and user experience sessions to provide inputs on the layout. It also involved testing, debugging, and deploying the company website.    RESPONSBILITIES  • Contribute in scrum meetings and sizing meeting for the sprint cycles.  • Industrial and user facing front pages using Html, CSS, JavaScript.  • Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  • Good hands on experience in data warehouse developer/ database engineer for high-volume data processing.  • Worked on HTML and JavaScript with integration of UI for developing grids, charts and schedulers.  • Implemented to making browser compatibility.    Environment  HTML, CSS, Web API'S, JSON, SQL Server, JavaScript, AJAX.