Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - Kwikee Systems Peoria, IL • Over 7 years of IT experience as a Web/Application Developer and coding with analytical programming using Python, DJango, Java.  • Good experience in Python, DJango, Zope, Pyramid Framework and In-charge of legacy products (TruBid, TruGuard, TruReport).  • Experienced in LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL and Python/PHP), WAMP (Windows, Apache, MySQL, Python/PHP) architecture and MVC struts.  • Experience with Python Libraries such as HTTPLib2, Urllib2, Beautiful Soup, Numpy, Scipy, Pickle, Pandas and Matplotlib.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, PHP, XML, CSS 5, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, RabbitMQ, Jdk1.7, JQuery, Angular.JS and Knockout.JS.  • Extensively used Python / Django Framework for developing backend of web applications.  • Developed RESTful API's using Django REST Framework, consumed via Restangular, a 3rd party Angular.JS service.  • Experience in Implementation of MVC/ MVW architecture using Servlet, Django, and RESTful, SOAP web service and SOAPUI.  • Developed web applications and RESTful web services and APIs using Python Flask, Django and PHP.  • Experience in Web development with Python and Django, SQL, ETL, Bash/Linux, Asynchronous task queues with Celery and RabbitMQ.  • Experienced in using internal tools in PyDev, Pycharm, Brackets, Eclipse, JBuilder, JDeveloper and NetBeans for debugging and worked with Sublime Text 2, Vim Editors for coding.  • Expertise in developing applications using Java, J2EE Technologies (Servlets, JSP, Java Web Services, EJB, Struts), JDK, Java Applets, JDBC, XML, JavaScript, HTML, DHTML, CSS, SOAP.  • Expertise in designing rich Graphic User Interface(GUI) and frontend layouts on the web using CSS, HTML, XML, DHTML, JavaScript, JSON, AJAX, XAML and JQuery, Bootstrap, Node.js, Angular.js, backbone.js, Require.js.  • Experienced in SQL and PL/SQL programming, developing complex code units, database triggers and using the latest features to optimize performance (Global Temporary Tables, Inline views, Materialized views and Bulk Binds).  • Experience in relational databases like Oracle 11g/10g/9i/8i, MS SQL server, developing PL/SQL packages, Stored Procedures, Functions, Views, Indexes, Triggers, XML join, user defined data types and other complex queries.  • Contributed in migrating data from Oracle database to Apache Cassandra (a NoSQL database) using SSTable loader.  • Utilized Python Libraries like Boto3, NumPy for AWS.  • In-depth understanding of MongoDB HA strategies, including Replica sets and Sharding.  • Knowledge of Hadoop Architecture and various components such as HDFS, Map Reduce, Hadoop GEN2 Federation.  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  • Excellent Experience and knowledge in using XML, SOAP, web Service for inter operable software applications.  • Automated the data processing to automate data loading into the Hadoop Distributed File System  • Proficient with Apache Web Server 2.0, MySQL 5, CVS, UNIX Shell Script, Firefox 3.5, IE 6 Browser Compatibility Issues, IIS and Linux.  • Experience in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), which includes Requirements Specification, Design documents, Integration, Documentation and writing Test cases using various software engineering process ranging from Waterfall to Agile methodology.  • Installed application on AWS EC2 instances and configured the storage on S3 buckets.  • Experience in AWS cloud services such as EC2, auto-scaling and VPC to build secure, highly scalable and flexible systems that handled expected and unexpected load bursts.  • Experience in project deployment using Jenkins/Heroku and using web services like Amazon Web Services (AWS) EC2 and AWS S3  • Have knowledge in Installing and Configuring JBoss 6.0 on Dev, Test, Training and Prod Environments and provided support.  • Experience in Functional Services Testing, GUI Testing, Back-end Testing using SQL, Browser Compatibility Testing, Web Services Testing, System Testing and profound knowledge in Test plans, Test Cases and Test Scripts.  • Experience in writing functional/unit Rspec tests using TDD/BDD built base test framework around mobile site.  • Delivered the n-gram and other patterns count from seller's big data queries using PySpark functions and NLTK.  • Good knowledge in Installation and Configuration of Oracle Identity Manager (OIM), Oracle Access Manager (OAM), WebLogic Server and SOA suite for deploying identity management stack.  • Experienced in various types of testing such as Unit testing, Integration testing, Functional testing and User acceptance testing.  • Expertise in creating Scrum stories, Agile Methodologies, Sprints experience in Python based environment, along with data analytics, Excel data extracts and data wrangling.  • Software experience in Python, C/C++ on Linux, Windows, Cross-platform and embedded systems.  • Extensive knowledge on automated batch programs by Linux/UNIX shell Scripts (such as file download, file Validation, assign permissions and workflow executions).  • Experience with virtualization tools, used for supporting and hosting OIM Components, such as Oracle Virtual Box, VMware Workstation, Oracle VM Server and VMware vSphere.  • Experienced in Version controls using Git, SVN, CVS and GitHub.  • Experience in working on different Operating Systems such as Windows Vista, Windows XP, Windows7, Linux, UNIX and OS X.  • Excellent communication and interpersonal skills with ability to interact with individuals at all levels and can work as a part of team as well as independently. Work Experience Sr. Python Developer Kwikee Systems - Peoria, IL September 2016 to Present Description: - Kwikee is an organization that owns an application called Kwikee that helps companies create, manage & distribute e-commerce and marketing content. Kwikee is a web base application for digital asset management and distribution.  Objectives: -  • Created RESTful API's calls with server, parse output json data and perform field by field comparison in Kwikee database.  • Created Python libraries that allow the transfer of data from Kwikee SQL Database to Oracle Database.  • Updated views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create new functionalities to the website.  • Used python modules such as xlrd, lxml and csv to compare two files and log the differences.  • Responsible in writing SQL queries to query database and queries Censhare for data and returns it as a structure on success responses and throws exception on any errors.  • Implemented Schema validation using python module jsonschema to validate data in prior to API call to censhare.  • Used Django's ORM (object-relational Mapper) to automate the transfer of data stored in Kwikee database tables into objects that are more commonly used in application code.  • Implemented and enhanced CRUD operations for the applications using the MVC architecture of Django framework and conducted code reviews.  • Developed scripts using pandas to easily perform read/write operations to CSV files, manipulate and compare data by columns.  • Automated different workflows, which are initiated manually with Python scripts and Linux bash scripting.  • Implemented full life cycle development of new web applications and modification of existing applications to add new components and features emphasizing maintainability, reliability, scalability and performance.  • Developed and maintained parsing modules, which read CSV, XML and JSON data from files and other REST services, processed the data.  • Involved in doing AGILE (SCRUM) practices and planning of sprint attending daily agile (SCRUM) meetings and SPRINT retrospective meetings to produce quality deliverables within time.  • Taken part in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Used Python IDE's such as PyCharm, sublime text for developing the code and performing unit test and SIT.  • Involved in setting SSH connection and used SFTP, FTP protocols for file transfer between different operating systems.  • Developed Node.Js based JavaScript application that performs a series of mathematical calculations on the number of products and profiles data received from the web services and present the results in a database and also had knowledge of representing those results in a user-friendly price trend graph.  • Implemented samba server to deploy code from Linux environment to windows environment for easy development and testing of code.  • Built development environment using bug-tracking tools like Jira, Confluence and version controls such as Git, GitLab and SVN.  • Used Vagrant to install and configure virtual machines and hosted personnel VM which points to development environment.  Environment: Python2.7, Django1.7, Linux, MySQL, SQL, XML, JSP, JSON, Restful API, MVC architecture, GitLab, Pandas, Agile, Enterprise Scheduler, Bitvise SSH Client, Scrum, JIRA, GIT. Sr. Python Developer USF Holland - Holland, MI January 2016 to August 2016 Description: - USF Holland is a Freight Management company, recognized for delivering the next-day service. This project involves migrating operating system from OpenVMS to Linux for their Freight Management system.  Objectives: -  • Responsible in upgrading their operating system from OpenVMS to Linux and converting all DCL programs to Python.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Implemented presentation layer using CSS framework, NodeJS, AngularJS, Wire-Framing and HTML5.  • Responsible for setting up AngularJS framework for UI development. Developed html views with HTML5, CSS3, JSON and AngularJS, Adobe flash.  • Created new JSP views to incorporate backend functionality to display on the UI screens using client rich technologies like JQuery, JavaScript, HTML, CSS files.  • Taken part in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Python/Django based web application, PostgreSQL DB, and integrations with 3rd party email, messaging, storage services.  • Job scheduling, batch-job scheduling, process control, forking and cloning of jobs and checking the status of the jobs using shell scripting.  • Worked on Python OpenStack APIs and used Numpy for Numerical analysis.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to created user-friendly website interface.  • Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, Oracle DB, PostgreSQL, and VMWare API calls.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, MySQL, Jenkins, and custom tools developed in Python.  • Managed datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL, queried MySQL database queries from Python using Python -MySQL connector MySQLdb package to retrieve information.  • Develop consumer-based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML, Behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pair based programming.  • Designed and developed integration methodologies between client web portals and existing software infrastructure using SOAP API's and vendor specific frameworks.  • Used JIRA for bug tracking and issue tracking and added several options to the application to choose particular algorithm for data and address generation.  Environment: - Python 3.5, Django 1.7, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, Bootstrap, AJAX, JQuery, Pandas, MySQL, Servlets, Agile, Enterprise Scheduler, Bitvise SSH Client, Scrum, Heroku, JIRA, GIT Sr. Python Developer Affinion Group - Stamford, CT October 2014 to December 2015 Description: Affinion Group is a private company based in Stamford, Connecticut that provides customer engagement and loyalty programs. This project involves to take a collection of scripts which collectively take an IOS formatted configuration file from user. Present results to the user in an interactive manner that allows the user to analyze the efficiency of the conversion.  Responsibilities: -  • Responsible for analyzing various cross-functional, multi-platform applications systems enforcing Python best practices and provide guidance in making long term architectural design decisions.  • Designed, developed and tested new Python tools for asset liability management (ALM) programs to manage the market risks of traditional life insurance products, variable and fixed annuities, and macro-economic risks that the enterprise faces.  • Experience with ORM's such as Django and SQLAlchamy, database design and normalization.  • Used MVT pattern to encapsulate client/server interactions helps to illustrate software-pattern roles as well as developer roles by separating object, components, and services into multi-tiers with well-defined boundaries.  • Gathering user requirements and designing Database accordingly which involves creating Logical Data Tables and Visualization.  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture.  • Familiar with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services (AWS).  • Used Python sub-process module to call the PySpark job, SFTP and Oracle store procedure.  • Calculation of statistics on numeric features such as mean, median, percentile, skewness etc. using PySpark.  • Worked on Element Tree XML API in Python to parse XML documents and load data into database and also from database to XML documents.  • Created new connections through applications for better access to MySQL database and involved in writing several SQL/PLSQL -functions, sequences, stored procedures, triggers, cursors and object types.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL and wrote several queries to extract/store data.  • Cleaned data and processed third party spending data into maneuverable deliverables within specific formats with Excel macros and Python libraries.  • Develop consumer based features and applications using Django, HTML, Python Behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pair based programming.  • Implemented AJAX to update necessary section of webpages and hence, avoiding the need for reloading the entire web page.  • Developed and tested many features in an agile environment using Python, Django, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap and Rspec.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Implemented LDAP authentication using device to integrate with an in-place web seal/TAM infrastructure.  • Built task-monitoring script to monitor various tasks such as power-on a virtual machine after cloning, clone virtual machine and reboot virtual machine using pyvmomi.  • Analyzed existing complex systems to understand and document data elements, relationships, data flows, dependencies and related interfaces.  • This project also used other technologies like JQuery for JavaScript manipulations, bootstrap for the front-end html layout.  • Understood the project scope, identified activities/ tasks, task level estimates, schedule, dependencies, risks and provided inputs to Module Lead for review.  Environment: - Python 3.4, Django 1.8, PySpark, Linux, HTML5, CSS, Bootstrap, MySQL, SQL, PLSQL, XML, Heroku, JavaScript, JQuery, JSP, JSON, Restful API, MVC architecture, AWS EC2, GitHub, Rspec, Cucumber, Swagger. Python Developer MetricStream - Palo Alto, CA May 2013 to September 2014 Description: Worked on development of MetricStream.com website using Django based Content Management System. Worked with a team of UX specialists and developers to build complex web applications from wireframe to completion.  Responsibilities:  • Created APIs, database Model and Views Utilization Python in order to build responsive web page application.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  • Wrote and executed various MySQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the CSS, HTML, JavaScript, and JQuery.  • Python/Django based web application, PostgreSQL DB, and integrations with 3rd party email, messaging, storage services.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Developed GUI using webapp2 for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of Python code using a web browser.  • Involved in design, implementation and modifying the Python code and MySQL database schema on-the back end.  • Improving current documentation, and making sure we are in parity with AWS both in terms of content and quality of content.  • Knowledge of AWS cloud infrastructure environments and developer experience.  • Developed user friendly and sophisticated graphical representation of the catalogue of items that would be configured for a piece of equipment.  • Hands-on experience in writing and reviewing requirements, architecture documents, test plans, design documents, quality analysis and audits.  • Generating various capacity planning reports (graphical) using Python packages like Numpy, matplotlib.  • Python Object Oriented Design code for manufacturing quality, monitoring, logging, and debugging code optimization.  • Job scheduling, batch-job scheduling, process control, forking and cloning of jobs and checking the status of the jobs using shell scripting.  • Monitoring Python scripts run as daemons in the UNIX/Linux system background to collect trigger and feed arrival information. Helped calculating SLA misses.  • Work on SCR's (source change request). Which involved working on Perl, Python, PHP and Shell Scripting.  • Created Python/MySQL back-end for data entry from Flash. I had to assist the Flash developer send the correct data via query strings. Used Wire shark, live http headers, and Fiddler2 debugging proxy to debug the Flash object and help the developer create a functional component.  • Developed Restful API's using Python Flask and SQLAlchemy data models as well as ensured code quality by writing unit tests using Pytest.  • Used JIRA for bug tracking and issue tracking and added several options to the application to choose algorithm for data and address generation.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.7, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, Bootstrap, Apache Web Server, AJAX, JQuery, Pandas, MySQL, Restful APIs, JavaBeans, Servlets, Agile, Scrum, Heroku, JIRA, GIT. Python Developer First Bank Inc - St. Louis, MO September 2012 to April 2013 Description: First Bank is one of the nation's largest family owned and led banks. Developed python Key edits for different Lockboxes as per the functionality needed which helps the Keyer to validate the customer lockbox requirements.  Responsibilities:  • Developed Python scripts to read from Excel files, generate XML configuration files and for generating IP access frequency lists in different data logs.  • Designed email marketing campaigns and created responsive web forms that saved data into a database using Python/ Django Framework.  • Generated Python Django Forms, Crispy forms to record data, login and signup of online users.  • Learned technical skills that are required for the system like CherryPy, Django, Flask, Pandas, JIRA, and Heroku etc.  • Collaborated with a team of instructors and programmers to develop the curriculum and guidelines for workshops to teach the logic of programming.  • Worked for development and enhancements of all the modules of raildocs and have them running it the design team for project structure.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgresSQL with complete data integrity.  • Upgraded Python 2.5 to Python 2.7 on a RHEL server. This upgrade was necessary because in lined models with UTF-8 characters were causing unexpected errors.  • Developed Application to access JSON and XML from Restful Web Service from consumer side using JavaScript and Angular.JS.  • Expertise in developing web-based LAMD stack applications using Python and Django for large dataset analysis.  • Designed and Implemented a Random Unique Test Selector Package on processing large volume of data using Python and Django ORM.  • Developed and implemented the user registration and login feature for the application process from scratch by extending Django user model.  • Write a wrapper program in Python to automate the entire process like running different executables of FORTAN and call the Java swing program.  • Database Administration activities like taking backup, checking log messages, looking for database optimization.  • Learned how to create specific images using Python Imaging Library for the custom images used for each book.  Environment: Python 2.7, RabbitMQ, FORTAN, XML, WSDL, CherryPy, Flask, Django, Pandas, MySQL, CSS, HTML, Jenkins, Google App Engine. Java UI Developer GGK Tech - Hyderabad, ANDHRA PRADESH, IN April 2010 to September 2011 Description: GGK Tech key services include Application Development and Application Maintenance, Business Intelligence and Analytics, Enterprise Mobility, Infrastructure Management Services.  Responsibilities:  • Developing, modifying, fixing, reviewing, testing and migrating the Java, JSP, XML, Servlet, SQLs, JSF, Spring and hibernate programs.  • Used J2EE design patterns like Singleton, command, Factory, Business Delegate, Session façade, Service locator, Transfer object and view object for developing enterprise application.  • Used multithreading concepts while creating DAO classes. Used multithreading in programming to improve overall performance.  • Worked on creating various documents that include Use Cases, Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams and Activity Diagrams.  • Developing Responsive Design UI Rich Rest Service Applications, Single Page Applications and HTML Wireframes using HTML5 Grid Structures/Layouts, CSS3 Media Queries, Ajax, Angular JS and Bootstrap.  • Worked on SOAP Web services using C++ in multi-threaded application development processing XML requests.  • Involved in creating various Data Access Objects (DAO) for addition, modification and deletion of records using various specification files.  • Used SOAP UI to test the web services, created cases SOAP UI test and worked on SOAP composite projects.  • Base on client requirements upgrading, developing and managing Software Application using knowledge of C++.  • Involved in the development of business module applications using J2EE technologies like Servlets, Struts, JDBC and ODBC.  • Involved in web designing using HTML 4/5, XHTML, CSS 2/3, JQuery, JavaScript extensively used Table less Design in CSS for positioning.  • Involved in the development using Spring Model View Controller (MVC) with Data access/integration layer consists ORM module.  • Designing classes using design pattern methodologies such as Singleton, Service Locator, and DAO factory and session façade patterns. Involved in Performance tuning.  • Created tables, complex join queries, stored procedures, views, Types, triggers and functions and modifications to existing database structure as required for addition of new features using SQL developer.  Environment: Java, J2EE, Oracle 11g, Unified Modeling Language (UML), XML, Web services, SOAP, Angular JS, Junit, RAD, CSS, HTML, DHTML, XSL, XSLT and MySQL. Skills AJAX (4 years), CSS (5 years), HTML (5 years), JavaScript (6 years), MySQL (6 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:    Programming Languages Python, JAVA, C#, C++  Query Languages SQL, PL/SQL    Operating Systems Windows Vista/XP/7/8/10, Linux, Unix, OS X  Deployment Tools AWS (EC2, S3, ELB, EBS, RDS, SES), Heroku, Jenkins, Azure  Web Development CSS, HTML, DHTML, XML, JavaScript. Angular JS, JQuery and AJAX  Web Servers WebSphere, WebLogic, Apache, Gunicorn  Python Framework Django, Flask, Web2py and Bottle, Pyramid, Swagger, RabbitMQ  Bug Tracking Tools Jira, Bugzilla, Junit, gdb  Databases Oracle 11g/10g/9i, MySQL, SQL Server RC 2008  Cloud Computing Amazon EC2/S3, Heroku, Google App Engine    Methodologies Agile, Scrum and Waterfall  IDEs Sublime Text, PyCharm, Eclipse, NetBeans, jDeveloper, WebLogic Workshop, RAD  Version Controls CVS, SVN, GIT and GitHub  Virtualization VMware Workstation, virtual Box