Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Lincoln Financial Corporation Radnor, PA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Lincoln Financial Corporation - Radnor, PA June 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  • Developed Python/Django application for Google Analytics aggregation and reporting.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Worked on Python Open stack API's.  • Used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Used HTML, CSS, JQuery, JSON and Javascript for front end applications.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Bootstrap was used as a mechanism to manage and organize the html page layout.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector and My SQLdb package.  • Worked with Order Management Application, which is developed in PHP Laravel 5.1 Framework.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures on MYSQL.  • Designed the workflow of our application based on the Laravel Architecture Foundations.  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile).    Environment: Python, Amazon AWS S3, MySQL, HTML, Python 2.7, Django 1.4, HTML5, CSS, XML, MySQL, MS SQL Server, JavaScript, AWS, Linux, Shell Scripting, AJAX, cassandra. Python Developer Comerica Bank - Dallas, TX April 2014 to November 2015 Responsibilities: -  • Developed frontend and backend modules using Python on Django including Tastypie Web Framework using Git.  • Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with completed data integrity and Designed, developed and deployed CSV Parsing using the big data approach on AWS EC2.  • Used Test driven approach for developing the application and Implemented the unit tests using Python Unit test framework.  • Used JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services (AWS) and Responsible for setting up Python REST API framework and spring frame work using DJANGO.  • Involved in Dynamic implementation of SQL server work on website using SQL developer tool and Experience with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins.  • Designed front end using UI, HTML, Bootstrap, Node JS, underscore JS, Angular JS CSS, and JavaScript and Strong Expertise in working with server side technologies including databases, restful API and MVC design patterns.  • Involved in Developing applications using RESTFUL architecture using Node.js and PHP as backend languages and Used Numpy for Numerical analysis and Used Spring Framework to support the Hibernate tool and Struts.  • Optimized existing websites with PHP, CSS, javascript, meta tags and targeted marketing.  • Followed AGILE development methodology to develop the application and Used the GO Programming Language to refactor and redesign the legacy databases.  • Used Test driven approach (TDD) for developing services required for the application and Implemented Integration test cases and Developing predictive analytic using Apache Spark Scala APIs.  • Used several python libraries like wxPython, numPY and was involved in environment, code installation as well as the SVN implementation and Hands-on experience with Hadoop applications (such as administration, configuration management, monitoring, debugging, and performance tuning).  • Built all database mapping classes using Django models and Apache Cassandra and Experienced in developing Restful applications with HATEOAS and documenting the API in Swagger.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval and Automation of various administrative tasks on multiple servers using DevOps.    Environment: Python 3.3, PyQT, PyQuery, MVW, HTML5, CSS3, DOM, Angular.js, Shell Scripting, JSON, Rest, Apache Web Server, Django, SQL, UNIX, Windows, AWS, MongoDB, PostgreSQL, and python libraries such as Numpy, IPython, sql alchemy, Django Tastypie Python Developer Deustche Bank January 2013 to March 2014 Responsibilities:-  • Worked with team of developers on Python applications for RISK management.  • Designed the database schema for the content management system.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Worked with Private VPN using Ubuntu, Python, Django, CherryPy, Postgres, Redis, Bootstrap, Jquery, Mongo, Fabric, Git, Tenjin, Selenium, Sphinx, Nose.  • Involved in Modifying data using SAS/BASE, SAS/ MACROS.  • Extracting data from the database using SAS/Access, SAS SQL procedures and create SAS datasets.  • Wrote Python routines to log into the websites and fetch data for selected options.  • Performed testing using Django's Test Module.  • Worked on middle tier and persistence layer. Created service and model layer classes and Value objects/POJO to hold values between java classes and database fields.  • Involved in Data Modelling, Data Extraction, Data Integration, Data Wrangling, Data Warehousing.  • Exported/Imported data between different data sources using SQL Server Management Studio.  Maintained program libraries, users' manuals and technical documentation.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Successfully migrated all the data to the database while the site was in production.  • Implemented the validation, error handling, and caching framework with Oracle Coherence cache.  • Worked on scripts for setting up the discovery client with attribute data.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.4, HTML5, CSS, XML, MySQL, JavaScript, Backbone JS, JQuery, Mongo DB, MS SQL Server, JavaScript, Git, GitHub, AWS, Linux, Shell Scripting, AJAX. Python Programmer BCBS - Chicago, IL October 2011 to December 2012 Responsibilities:-  • Involved in Developing a Restful service using Python Flask framework.  • Performed business analysis techniques like Interface Analysis, Data Modelling, Data Analysis, Process Modelling, SWOT Analysis and creating User Stories  • Developed the presentation layer using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery and AJAX and Used JQuery libraries for all client side JavaScript manipulations.  • Exposure on Multi-Threading factory to distribute learning process back-testing and the into various worker processes.  • Performed efficient delivery of code based on principles of Test Driven Development (TDD) and continuous integration to keep in line with Agile Software Methodology principles.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Involved in managing MongoDB environment from availability, performance and scalability perspectives.  • Performed Data Modelling, Data Integration, Data Warehousing and Data Analytics using Microsoft BI suite -SISS, SSAS and SQL.  • Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, OracleDB, PostgreSQL, and VMWare API calls.  • Involved in the Complete Software development life cycle (SDLC) to develop the application and Worked closely with software developers and DevOps to debug software and system problems.  • Handled potential points of failure through error handling and communication of failure.  • Automated the existing scripts for performance calculations using Numpy and sqlalchemy.  • Interacted with QA to develop test plans from high-level design documentation.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.8, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, JQuery, webbapp2, AJAX, MYSQL, Linux, Rest, Heroku, GIT, urllib, urllib2, OracleDB, MongoDB, PostgreSQL, and VMWare API Education B.Tech in Computer Science University of Pune - Pune July 2005 to June 2009 Skills CSS (4 years), DJANGO (4 years), HTML (4 years), MYSQL (4 years), PYTHON (4 years), Git (4 years), BOOTSTRAP (3 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Primary Languages: Python, Java, C, Perl  Python Libraries: BeautifulSoup, matplotlib, Pandas data frame, urllib2, Requests, Scrapy, wxPython, Pillow, SQLAlchemy, Twisted, NumPy, SciPy, Pygame, Pyglet, pyQT, Scapy, nose, SymPy, IPython  Frameworks: Bootstrap, Django, Node.JS, Flask, PyJamas, Pyramid, Hibernate, ExtJS  Database: Sqlite3, MSSQL, MySQL, Mongo DB, Oracle 11g  IDE's: PyCharm, Eclipse, NetBeans, MS Visual Studio, PyDev, RIDE, PowerShell  Servers: Apache Tomcat, WebSphere, JBoss, WebLogic, XAMPP  Deployment tools: MS Azure, Heroku, Chef, Amazon Web Services (EC2, S3, EBS, ELB, SES) , Jenkins  Web Technologies: HTML, HTML5, CSS, DHTML, XML, JSON, Java Script, Ajax , JQuery  Operating systems: Windows, Mac, Fedora Linux, Red hat Linux  Webserver: Apache HTTP webserver, WebLogic, WebSphere, JBoss and Apache Tomcat  SDLC Methods: SCRUM, Agile  Testing Frameworks: Junit, TestNG, ROBOT, JXL, Jtest, Jasmine  Bug Tracking Tools: Axosoft, JIRA, Bugzilla, Rational Clear-quest  Version Controls: VSS, SVN, Github, Git