Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Fidelity Investments Nashua, NH • 8 years of experience in IT Industry with proficiency in Design & Development of Python, Java/J2EE, Django, flask projects.  • Experience in Multi-Tier distributed Enterprise applications..  • Extensive experience in system analysis, design, development and implementation of web based and client/server application using HTML, Angular JS, BootStrap, underscore JS, Node JS, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, JSP, JDBC, XML, XSLT, Python, Django, PHP  • Working knowledge in multi-tiered distributed environment, OOAD concepts, good understanding of Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC)  • Developed Java/J2ee applications using Hibernate, XML, Android, XSLT, and Basic ASP.net applications including using Core Java concepts like OOPS, Multithreading, Garbage Collections, and Collection etc.  • Experience in Implementation of MVC/ MVW architecture using Servlet, Django, and RESTful, SOAP web service and SOAPUI  • Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache, Tomcat and WebSphere.  • Extensively followed development methodologies such as Agile (SCRUM), Water Fall  • Excellent Experience of Databases such as MySQL, Oracle 8g/9g/10g, Microsoft SQL Server, PostgreSQL, SQL/PLSQL concepts  • Good Knowledge of using IDE Tools like Eclipse, NetBeans, Android Studio, Visual Studio, IDLE.  • Experience on Ruby Reg-Ex for pattern and Text matching.  • Good command on full life cycle application development.  • Designed and developed video and blogging website on PHP using WordPress on wamp server using MySQL database  • Experience with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins  • Developed ColdFusion Components, custom tags and modified CF Objects  • Experience with Unit testing/ Test driven Development (TDD), Load Testing in JIRA, JENKIN  • Wrote AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings Work Experience Python Developer Fidelity Investments - Merrimack, NH February 2018 to Present Fidelity Investments is an American multinational financial services corporation. It is the fourth Largest mutual fund and financial services group in the world. Fidelity Investments manages a large family of mutual funds, provides fund distribution and investment advice services, as well as providing discount brokerage services, retirement services, wealth management.    Responsibilities:  • Design and development of user interfaces and client displays using Java Script, JSP, CSS and troubleshoot various issues in Python code and fix them with code enhancements- code used various python libraries such as PyJamas and Jython.  • Built various graphs for business decision making using Python matplotlib library.  • Created Python and Bash tools to increase efficiency of call center application system and operations; data conversion scripts REST, JSON, and CRUD scripts for API Integration.  • Developing Python Framework using Django to perform scan software unit monitoring.  • Designed the front end of the application using Python, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON andJQuery.  • Worked on backend of the application, mainly using Active Records.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Experience with various frameworks of JavaScript like BackboneJS, AngularJS, EmberJS etc.  • Configured various big data workflows to run on top of Hadoop and these workflows comprise of heterogeneous jobs like Pig, Hive and MapReduce.  • Used Git and Jira for code submissions and review process.  • Managed code versioning with Githuband deployment to staging and production servers.  • Involved in writing automation scripts using Python-Selenium to test the functionality of the web pages and also written Socket programming scripts to bridge communication in between Client-Server.  • Actively involved in analysis of the system requirements specifications and involved in client interaction during requirements specifications.  • Performed Unit testing, Integration Testing.  • Involved in designing mobile search application system requirements and coded back-end and front-end in Django/ Python.  • Carried out various mathematical operations for calculation purpose using Python libraries numpy.  Environment: Python 2.7, PyQT, PyQuery, MVW, HTML5, CSS3, DOM, Angular.js, Shell Scripting, JSON, Rest, Apache Web Server, Django, SQL, UNIX, Windows, PostgreSQL, and python libraries such as Numpy, sqlalchemy, Django Tastypie Python Developer T-Mobile - Bellevue, WA July 2016 to January 2018 As America's Un-carrier, T-Mobile US, Inc. (NYSE: "TMUS") is redefining the way consumers and businesses buy wireless services through leading product and service innovation. The company's advanced nationwide 4G and 4G LTE network delivers outstanding wireless experiences for customers who are unwilling to compromise on quality and value. Based in Bellevue, WA T-Mobile US operates its flagship brands, T-Mobile and MetroPCS. It currently serves approximately 43 million wireless subscribers and provides products and services through 70,000 points of distribution.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in software development life cycle (SDLC) of tracking the requirements, gathering, analysis, detailed design, development, system testing and user acceptance testing.  • Actively involved in developing the methods for Create, Read, Update and Delete (CRUD) in Active Record.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Involved in designing user interactive web pages as the front end part of the web application using various web technologies like HTML, JavaScript, Angular JS, JQuery, AJAX and implemented CSS for better appearance and feel.  • Knowledge of cross-browser and cross-platform development of HTML and CSS based websites in Windows like IE 6, IE 7, IE 8 and FF.  • Used AJAX to modify small portions of the web pages by sending a request to the server avoiding the need of reloading the entire web page  • Interactive in providing change requests, trouble reports and requirements collection with the client.  • Implemented and modified various SQL queries and Functions, Cursors and Triggers as per the client requirements.  • Managed code versioning with GitHub, Bit Bucket and deployment to staging and production servers.  • Implemented MVC architecture in developing the web application with the help of Django framework.  • Used Celery as task queue and RabbitMQ, Redis as messaging broker to execute asynchronous tasks.  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture.  • Involved in code reviews using GitHub pull requests, reducing bugs, improving code quality, and increasing knowledge sharing  • Implemented monitoring and established best practices around using elastic search.  • Install and configuring monitoring scripts for AWS EC2 instances.  • Implemented task object to interface with data feed framework and invoke database message service setup and update functionality.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.7, HTML5, CSS, XML, KML, MySQL, JavaScript, Angular JS, JQuery, CSS Bootstrap, RESTful, MS SQL Server, MongoDB, Elastic Search, Ubuntu server, Windows 12 Server, Amazon s3, Jenkins, Map Box, My SQL, Mongo DB, GitHub, Bit Bucket, Linux, and Windows. Python Developer Rockwell Collins - Cedar Rapids, IA August 2014 to June 2016 Rockwell Collins is a pioneer in the design, production and support of innovative solutions for our customers in aerospace and defence. Our expertise in flight-deck avionics, cabin electronics, mission communications, information management and simulation and training is strengthened by our global service and support network spanning 150 countries. Working together, our global team of nearly 20,000 employees shares a vision to create the most trusted source of communication and aviation electronics solutions.    Responsibilities:  • Performed Systems Analysis and detail application design  • Worked on development and enhancement of automated tools for testing, integration and global application development. This includes detail description of availability. Also enhanced the check out and registration process.  • Work with team of developers on python applications for RISK management.  • Managed full-life development cycles  • Held overall responsibility of coordination of implementations of software builds and releases  • Provided analytics to help determine optimal way to assemble releases  • Tracked any additions, deletions or change in scope on the published release plan including efficient tracking of defects.  • Automating analysis of large data sets  • Built the release plan roadmap and keep maintained for communication  • Worked on UI modification using HTML, CSS.  • Developed Application logic using Python 2.7 and Django framework.  • Wrote backend data access Logic using MYSQL and SQL Server  • Used Web Services to extract Supplier inventory for various high end items.  • Integrated the application with different internal system.  • Designed and implemented a distributed, QA infrastructure for automated testing of a multi process software product.  • Involved in Unit, integration and smoke testing.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed entire front end and back end modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Designed and developed data center management system using MySQL.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using python.  • Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  • Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.8, MySQL, Windows, Linux, HTML, CSS, JQuery, JavaScript, Apache, Linux. Python Developer Activision Blizzard - Santa Monica, CA February 2013 to July 2014 Activision Blizzard global family of specialty retail brands that makes the most popular technologies affordable and simple. As the world largest multichannel video game retailer, sell new and pre-owned video game hardware, physical and digital video game software, video game accessories as well as new and pre-owned mobile and consumer electronics products merchandise primarily through our Activision Blizzard EB Games and Micromania stores.  Responsibilities:  • Automation for execution of tests in batch using Shell scripting in python.  • Development of data structures, XML parsing using Python.  • Usage of advance features like pickle/unpickle in python for sharing the information across the applications.  • Used Django database API's to access database objects.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Generated graphical reports using python package Numpy and matPlotLib.  • Representation of the system in hierarchy form by defining the components, subcomponents using Python and developed set of library functions over the system based on the user needs.  • Development of Python APIs to dump the array structures in the Processor at the failure point for debugging.  • Wrote programs to parse excel file and process many user data with data validations.  • Create Cassandra database to handle the user's data (server-client).  • Developed front end page using HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using python.  • Collecting the several usage models and functions from the team members.  • Developing and maintenance of the tool that abstracts the information for the user.  • Implemented multiple high performances MongoDB.  • Utilized various IDEs and internal debug tools during debugging.  • Analyzing the data in design database.  • Used SVN for version control.  • Maintaining the data with different levels of access privileges.  Environment: Python, Django, Linux, HTML, CSS, MongoDB, Cassandra, Web services, SVN. Jr. Python Developer Cigna Insurance - Philadelphia, PA October 2011 to January 2013 Responsibilities:  • Involved in complete software development life cycle - Requirement Analysis, Conceptual Design, and Detail design, Development, System and User Acceptance Testing.  • Involved in Design and Development of the System using Rational Rose and UML.  • Involved in Business Analysis and developed Use Cases, Program Specifications to capture the business functionality.  • Improving the coding standards, code reuse, and performance of the Extend application by making effective use of various design patterns (Business Delegate, View Helper, DAO, Value Object etc. and other Basic patterns).  • Design of system using JSPs, Servlets.  • Implemented TCL utilities for telnet, ftp, ping, Wire shark, Ethereal captures using TCL/Expect for WAVES 2.0.  • Running integration run in the Test execution system.  • Designed application using Process Object, DAO, Data Object, Value Object, Factory, Delegation patterns.  • Involved in the design and development of Presentation Tier using JSP, HTML and JavaScript.  • Involved in integrating the concept of RFID in the software and developing the code for its API.  • Design and developed Class diagram, Identifying Objects and its interaction to specify Sequence diagrams for the System using Rational Rose.  Environment: Python, Django, MySQL, Linux, HTML, GIT, CSS, JavaScript and Apache Web Server. Java Developer June 2010 to September 2011 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Design, Development and Support phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC)  • Reviewed the functional, design, source code and test specifications  • Involved in developing the complete front end development using Java Script and CSS  • Author for Functional, Design and Test Specifications  • Implemented Backend, Configuration DAO, XML generation modules of DIS  • Analyzed, designed and developed the component  • Used JDBC for database access  • Used Data Transfer Object (DTO) design patterns  • Unit testing and rigorous integration testing of the whole application  • Written and executed the Test Scripts using JUNIT  • Actively involved in system testing  • Developed XML parsing tool for regression testing  • Prepared the Installation, Customer guide and Configuration document which were delivered to the customer along with the product    Environment: Java, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, JDK 1.5.1, JDBC, Oracle10g, XML, XSL, Solaris and UML Education Bachelor's Skills DJANGO (7 years), HTML (8 years), JAVASCRIPT (8 years), PYTHON (7 years), CSS (8 years), Flask, AWS, Java, Restful, C Additional Information Technical Skills:    Languages Python, Java, Perl, C, C++, HTML, CSS, Ant, Maven, JavaScript and Shell Script  Python Framework Django, Flask framework  Databases MySQL, MongoDB, SQL Server, Oracle and PostgreSQL  Versioning Tools Git, SVN, CVS Web servers Apache, Flask  Operating systems Linux/Unix, Windows