Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Verizon Addison, TX • Around 8 years of experience in developing and designing Web Based, Multi-tier distributed applications using latest analytical programming Python, Django, Flash, JAVA, J2EE and spring technologies.  • Experience with all aspects of technology projects including Business Requirements, Technical Architecture, Design Specification, Development and Deployment.  • Hands on experience working in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python/PHP) Architecture.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, PHP, XML, CSS, HTML, Java Script, and jQuery.  • Experienced in Python's modules NumPy, matplotlib, Pickle, PySide, SciPy, python, PyTables etc. for generating complex graphical data, creation of histograms etc.  • Written and developed scripts for automating tasks using Jenkins and UNIX shell programming  • Performed Unit testing, Integration testing and generating of test cases for web applications using Junit and Python Unit test framework.  • Experience in using UNIX shell Scripts for automating batch programs.  • Good experience in developing web applications and implementing Model View Control (MVC) architecture using serverside applications like Django, Flask and Pyramid  • Proficient in developing complex SQL queries, Stored Procedures, Functions, Packages along with performing DDL and DML operations on the database.  • Expert in using JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database  • Application Stress tester, created and stress tested stand-alone, web-applications and generated graph reports.  • Expertise in working with GUI frameworks - tkinter.  • Experienced in NoSQL technologies like MongoDB, Cassandra and relational databases like Oracle, SQLite, PostgreSQL, Dynamo DB and MySQL databases  • Performed code reviews and implemented best Pythonic programming practices  • Experience in writing test scripts, test cases, test specifications and test coverage.  • Good experience in handling errors/exceptions and debugging the issues in large scale applications.  • Planning and Implementing, Disaster Recovery and Fault Tolerance for AWS services.  • Troubleshooting AWS Auto scaling and EC2 instances related issues.  • Good knowledge on developing automation software for Elasticsearch Cluster deployment.  • Created views and stored procedures which organized PDF files with additional metadata that is indexed into the Elasticsearch system  • Experience migrating from Oracle SQL and Microsoft SQL to MongoDB.  • Participate in scalability testing to ensure MongoDB High Performance.  • Expertise in practicing the SDLC models, Agile methods with Scrum, Extreme Programming, Ticketing systems using JIRA and TDD Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Python Developer Verizon - Southlake, TX January 2017 to Present Responsibilities  • Taken part in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Designed the front end of the application using Python, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON and jQuery.  • Collaborated with internal teams to convert end user feedback into meaningful and improved solutions.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL with complete data integrity.  • Developed Python based API (RESTful Web Service) to track sales and perform sales analysis using Django and MySQL.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Used Test driven approach for developing the application and Implemented the unit tests using Python Unit test framework.  • Used JavaScript and JSON to update a portion of a webpage.  • Used Selenium Library to write fully functioning test automation process that allowed the simulation of submitting different requests from multiple browsers to web application.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse JSON documents and load the data in database.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Worked in MySQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization and DE normalization.  • Worked within SOA based enterprise framework to build web services.  • Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  • Performed Unit testing, Integration Testing, web application and automation testing.  • Developed indexer programs and search endpoint for enterprise applications, maintenance of Elasticsearch cluster, and deployment of programs done through custom automated scrips.  • Documented the requirements including the available code which should be implemented using Spark, Hive, HDFS, HBase and Elasticsearch.  • Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all its commands.  Environment: Python 2.7 & 3.5, Django 1.6.1, Selenium, HTML-5, CSS-3, XML, MySQL, JIRA, JavaScript, Angular JS, Backbone JS, jQuery, RDBMS, CSS Bootstrap, Elasticsearch, MS SQL Server-2014, T- SQL, Eclipse, Git, GitHub, AWS, Amazon Lambda, Linux, Shell Scripting. Python Developer Rent-A-Center - Dallas, TX August 2015 to December 2016 Responsibilities  • Developed the application using Agile methodology and Scrum method of project management.  • Developed web applications in Django Framework's model view control (MVC) architecture.  • Exposure on Multi-Threading factory to distribute learning process back-testing and into various worker processes.  • Performed efficient delivery of code based on principles of Test Driven Development (TDD) and continuous integration to keep in line with Agile Software methodology principles.  • Different testing methodologies like unit testing, Integration testing, web application testing  • Worked very closely with designer, tightly integrating Flash into the CMS with the use of Flashovers stored in the Django models.  • Design and implement Provisioning Server 5.6 upgrade to Provisioning Server 6.1.  • Developed test scripts for automation with Selenium.  • Python/Django based web application, PostgreSQL DB, and integrations with 3rd party email, messaging, storage services.  • Architected, designed, and implemented SAML and symmetric key based Single Sign On service provider systems.  • Build development environment with JIRA.  • Implemented multi-site Enterprise SOA using Oracle SOA Suite and also worked in SOA architecture WebSphere Message broker for integration.  • Also Created Angular JS controllers, directives, models for different modules of the application.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins,  MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash  • Involved in converting Hive/SQL queries into Spark transformations using Spark RDDs, Python.  • Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, Oracle DB, PostgreSQL, and VMWare API calls.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team  • Helped maintain existing Python (Django and Flask) applications. Interfaced with infrastructure services like Amazon AWS (S3, SQS) and used tools like Sold, RabbitMQ.  • Built S3 buckets and managed policies for S3 buckets & used S3 bucket and glacier for storage and backup on AWS.  • Used Pandas library for statistics Analysis.  • Designed object model, data model, tables, constraints, necessary stored procedures, functions, triggers, and packages for Oracle Database.  • Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  • Configure MongoDB to use TLS/SSL for all incoming and outgoing connections.  • Configure MONGODB Shaded cluster with Replica Set (HA) on Different AWS regions.  • Developed GUI using webapp2 for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of python code using a web browser.  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  • Developed code in Java which creates mapping in Elasticsearch even before data is indexed into.  • Responsible for user validations on client side as well as server side.  • Interacted with QA to develop test plans from high-level design documentation    Environment: Python, Django1.4, HTML/CSS, MS SQL Server 2012, MySQL, Script, Eclipse, GIT, GitHub, AWS, Linux, Shell Scripting. Python Developer Multiplan Health Insurance - New York, NY October 2014 to July 2015 Responsibilities  • Involved in preparing engineering specification with OOA and OOD. Used UML Tools to develop Use Case diagrams, Class diagrams, Collaboration and Sequence Diagrams, State Diagrams and Data Modeling.  • Developed application logic using Python, Java script, Java, C++  • Used JMS for updating Mailing plans and tracking them.  • Used Java Server Pages for content layout and presentation.  • Worked extensively with Bootstrap, JavaScript, and jQuery to optimize the user experience.  • Enhanced existing automated solutions, such as the Inquiry Tool for automated Asset Department reporting and added new features and fixed bugs  • Created database using MySQL, wrote several queries to extract/store data.  • Developed, tested and debugged software tools utilized by clients and internal customers  • Extracted and loaded data using Python scripts and PL/SQL packages  • Configuration and installation of MongoDB Servers and Ops Manager in Integration, Test and Prod Environment.  • Worked on Installation and configure MongoDB Cluster nodes on different AWS EC2 instances.  • Supported Java application for Media portal management.  • Generated SWIG interfaces to co-ordinate between C++, Java and Python. Used JNI for communication between C++ and Java.  • Implementing complete web SSO features with Identity Federation with SAML 2.0 compliance.  • Responsible for federating with clients using SAML and proprietary SSO.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using python.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  • Debugging and testing of the applications & finetuning performance. Provided maintenance support in production environment.    Environment: Python, Django1.4, HTML/CSS, MS SQL Server 2012, MySQL, Script, Eclipse, GIT, GitHub, AWS, Linux, Shell Scripting. Jr. Software Developer GGK Tech - Hyderabad, Telangana July 2010 to September 2013 Responsibilities  • As a Java Programmer, worked on creating custom mechanism by using CSS, HTML and JavaScript and used Controls and Repeaters for data sets.  • Developed the application by using various design patterns like DAO, Singleton and Session Facade. Fashioned and updated Wiki for the ecommerce and client teams to exchange information about the projects.  • Qualified in UNIX shell scripting as part of the implementation process.  • Was part of writing SQL queries, PL/SQL stored procedures, involved in modifications to the existing database structure?  • Actively worked on developing the automatic build scripts by using ANT for application to organize and test in Servers.  • Worked using XML documents with XSLT and CSS to interpret the content into HTML also validated XML using DTD's and XSD's.  • Was responsible for designing object model diagrams and data model diagrams to meet the business necessities.  • Worked using Struts validators and 1.x tiles concept for front end execution.  • Worked on the presentation layer of the application with the help of servlets and JSPs. Engrossed in writing JUnit 3 Test Cases for unit testing various modules of application.  • Was responsible to write stored procedures and add new paper types, concluding options to the database.    Environment: Java1.6, Struts 1.x, J2EE, HTML, JavaScript, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, Eclipse, XML, XSLT, XSD, EJB, Ant, JUnit, Tomcat, Windows XP, UNIX, Oracle10g, CSS style sheets. Education L&T Infotech - Bengaluru, Karnataka November 2013 to July 2014 Bachelor's Skills Android, PHP, MySQL, Javascript, ASP Additional Information Technical Skills:    Frameworks Django, web2py, Flask, Struts, pylons and CSS Bootstrap    Technologies HTML, CSS, DOM, SAX, Java Script, jQuery, AJAX, XML, Angular JS  Programming Languages C, C++, Python-3.5 & 2.7, Java, SQL and PL/SQL.  Python Libraries  Python, Django, Flask, Beautiful Soup, httplib2, Jinja2, HTML/CSS, Bootstrap, Spark, jQuery, NumPy, matplotlib, Pickle, PySide, SciPy, python, PyTables    Version Control GIT (GitHub), SVN, CVS, Bitbucket.  Databases Oracle, MySQL, PostgreSQL, MongoDB  IDE's/ Development Tools PyCharm and Sublime Text.  Web Services AWS, Rackspace Cloud, Amazon S3, Amazon Lambda    Operating Systems Windows, Red hat Linux, MAC OSX.  Protocols TCP/IP, HTTP/HTTPS, SOAP, SNMP, SMTP, REST.  Deployment Tools Heroku, Jenkins  Tracking Tools Bugzilla and JIRA.    Methodologies Agile, Scrum and Waterfall