Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Home Street Bank • Having 4+ Years of Experience as web/application developer software development and design using python, Django, Java, Webapp2, Angular.js, HTML/CSS, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Experienced in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, Subroutines, functions on SQL, PL/SQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Experienced in understanding principles and best practices of Software Configuration Management (SCM) processes, which include compiling, packaging, deploying and Application configurations.  • Good knowledge in working with application server - Apache Server, Tomcat (6.0, 7.0, 8.0), Nginx, WebLogic (10.0, 10.3, 11g), WebSphere (7.0, 8.5)  • Created a python, Django web-based application using Python scripting for data processing and MySQL for database, HTML, CSS, jQuery for data visualization.  • Experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Expertise in MVW frameworks like Django, Angular JS, JavaScript, jQuery and Node JS.  • Used Ansible and Ansible Tower as Configuration management tool, to automate repetitive tasks, quickly deploys critical applications, and proactively manages change.  • Ability to work on own initiative and as a part of team. Willingness to learn new Technologies, openness to new ideas and ability to learn very quickly.  • Proficient in Front end development experience using Python 3.6/2.7, Django 1.7/1.8, HTML, XML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, jQuery, JSON and, Angular.js, Node.js.  • Using Amazon EC2 command line interface along with Bash/ Python to automate repetitive work  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast HTTP server and Amazon AWS architecture  • Involved in designing and developing of Automation Test cases using Selenium WebDriver, Java, and TestNG.  • Development, Quality Assurance and Management teams to ensure cross communication and confirmed approval of all production changes.  • Connected continuous integration system with GIT version control repository and continually build as the check-in's come from the developer.  • Working experience in UNIX and Linux shell environments using command line utilities.  • Creating Python scripts to automate daily networking tasks (Ex. auto Config generation, retrieving information from network devices, parsing data, etc.) - including a custom Fortigate firewall Config generator (which included multi-threaded functionality to generate Configs for multiple firewalls at once)  • Used Python/Django MVC framework to design and develop the application.  • Experience in Kubernets which provide a platform for automating deployment, scaling and operations of application containers across clusters of hosts.  • Good knowledge in various stages of SDLC (Software Development Life Cycle), Software Testing Life Cycle (STLC) and QA methodologies from project definition to post-deployment documentation.  • Experienced in understanding principles and best practices of Software Configuration Management (SCM) processes, which include compiling, packaging, deploying and Application configurations.  • Good experience with Python frameworks like Flask and WebApp2.  • Performed Unit testing, Integration Testing and generating of test cases for web applications using Junit and Python Unit test framework Hudson/Jenkins in the builds triggered by each push to GIT.  • Proficient in SQL databases MS SQL, MYSQL, Oracle and NO SQL databases MongoDB, Cassandra.  • Ability to work on own initiative and as a part of team. Willingness to learn new Technologies, openness to new ideas and ability to learn very quickly.  • Have Experience in List Comprehensions and Python inbuilt functions such as Map, Filter and Lambda.  • Experience in using CI tools Hudson, Build Forge, and Jenkins for automated builds. Work Experience Python Developer Home Street Bank - Seattle, WA January 2018 to Present Responsibilities: -  • Gathered and analyzed the requirements and converted them into User Requirement Specifications and Functional Requirement Specifications for the designers and developers to understand them as per their perspective.  • Worked with various Python libraries such as Six, Click Pandas and Matplotlib for analysis and manipulation of data.  • Developed web applications in Django Framework's model view control (MVC) architecture and manipulated databases by using Django database API along with MySQL.  • Worked on various applications using python integrated IDE Eclipse, PyCharm, NetBeans, and Geany.  • Utilized Python libraries NumPy, Twisted and Matplotlib  • Created a Python, Django web-based application using Python scripting for data processing and MySQL for database, HTML5, CSS3 and jQuery for data visualization.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Provided GUI utilizing PyQt for the end user to create, modify and view reports based on client data.  • Designed and developed a horizontally scalable APIs using Python Flask.  • Using Amazon EC2 command line interface along with Bash/ Python to automate repetitive work.  • Worked with View Sets in Django-REST framework for providing web services and consumed web services performing CRUD operations.  • Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis.  • Designed and Developed User Interface using front-end technologies like HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap and JSON.  • Integrate the dynamic pages with Angular.JS, Node.JS and jQuery to make the pages dynamic  • Wrote REST APIs, as part of developing web-based applications using Django REST framework.  • Used Test driven approach for developing the application and Implemented the unit tests using Python Unit test framework.  • Created multiple Python and UNIX shell Scripts for various application level tasks.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from Python using Python -MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Involved in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Created a Git repository and added the project to GitHub.  • Worked in an agile development environment.  • Excellent analytical and problem-solving skills and ability to work on own besides being valuable and contributing team player.  Environment: -  Python, Django, NumPy, Twisted, Matplotlib, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS, Bootstrap, JSON, jQuery, PyQt, Angular.js, AWS, Eclipse, NetBeans, PyCharm, Geany, Git, GitHub, MySQL, PostgreSQL, UNIX, Agile and Windows, Spark. Developer Python - Des Plaines, IL October 2016 to December 2018 Responsibilities: -  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework and Utilize PyUnit, the Python unit test framework for all Python applications.  • Implemented code MVC framework using JSP's JavaBeans and Servlets.  • Developed GUI using webapp2 for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of Python code using a web browser.  • Used Python module named Pandas for data manipulation.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, to build an interactive web-based solution.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Used Wire shark, live http headers, and Fiddler2 debugging proxy to debug the Flash object and help the developer create a functional component.  • Utilized Python in the handling of all hits on Django, Redis, and other applications.  • Created Python Scripts to automate AWS services which includes Web servers, ELB, Cloud Front distribution, database, EC2 and database security groups, S3 bucket and application configuration.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the CSS3, HTML5, JavaScript, Angular.js and Node.JS • Used jQuery for all client-side JavaScript manipulation.  • Used Python to place data into JSON files for testing Django Websites.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Development of Python APIs to dump the array structures in the Processor at the failure point for debugging.  • Worked on Python Open stack API's used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Utilized Agile process and JIRA issue management to track sprint cycles.  • Used GitHub for version control.  • Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  Environment:-  Python, Django, Pandas, PyUnit, XML, AWS, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, Angular.js, JQuery, JSON, Redis, GitHub, Jira, Agile and Windows, SparK, Flask Developer Python March 2014 to July 2016 Responsibilities: -  • Involved in reviewing and understanding the Business requirements • Involved in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Used Django evolution and manual SQL modifications were able to modify Django models while retaining all data, while site was in production mode.  • Used Python library Beautiful Soup for webscrapping.ss.  • Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and SQL  • Worked on object-oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, Django and Linux.  • Used Python to write scripts to automate launch, starting and stopping of EC2 instances and taking snapshots of the servers.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the JQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python -MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Designed the user interactive web pages as the front-end part of the web application using various web technologies like HTML, JavaScript, Angular.JS, Node.JS and implemented CSS framework Bootstrap for better appearance and feel.  • Participated in multiple sprint cycles, addressing requirements for UI development.  • Used decorators, list comprehensions, functional programming, unit tests, multiple staging environments, and global team remote collaboration.  Environment: -  Python, Django, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Spark, Angular JS, Node.JS Panda, LINUX, MySQL and Windows Education Master's in Applied Computer Science California Lutheran University CA August 2013 to December 2015 B. Tech in Computer Science JNTU - Hyderabad, Telangana August 2007 Skills DJANGO (4 years), JAVASCRIPT (4 years), jQuery (4 years), MYSQL (3 years), JSON (3 years) Additional Information Skills    • Programming Languages: - Python 3.3/2.7, Java, C++, Shell Script, SQL  • Python Frameworks:- Django, Flask, CherryPy, Pyramid, NodeJS, Angular JS, JSP,  • Python Libraries: NumPy, Matplotlib, Pickle, Pandas, SciPy, wxPython, PyTables, PyQt, SQL Alchemy  • Web Technologies:- AJAX, JavaScript, HTML, DHTML, XHTML, XML, JSON, jQuery  • Databases:- MySQL, SQL Server, Oracle, MongoDB, Cassandra, Redis.  • Big Data Technologies:- Hadoop, MapReduce and Spark  • IDE:- Notepad++, Eclipse, IDLE, PyCharm, Pyscripter  • SDLC Methodologies: - Agile, Waterfall  • JavaScript Frameworks: Angular.JS, Node.JS, Ext.JS  • Operating systems: - Windows, Linux/UNIX  • Servers: -Apache Tomcat, Apache HTTP, JBOSS  • Tools: - Git, SVN, Mercurial, Memcached, Jira, SSIS, Data Migrator, Visual studio