Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Lenevo Saint Louis Park, MN • Over 8 years of experience as a Web Application Developer and coding using Python, Django, Java, Spring.  • Extensive knowledge in Python, JAVA, MYSQL, Oracle UNIX and Linux.  • Hands on experience in data processing automation using Python.  • Hands on experience in SQL and PL/SQL and writing stored procedures.  • Good Knowledge Objected Oriented Concepts, Data Structures and Design patterns.  • Web development using Python, Django.  • Building out the next-generation public-facing web site with an advanced Django-based web frameworks.  • Developed/supported application on LAMP stack (PHP, MYSQL and Apache)  • Experience with Web Development, Web Services, Python and the Django framework.  • Experience in working on Application Servers like WebSphere, WebLogic, Tomcat, Web Servers like Apache Server, NGINX and Integrated Development Environments like PyCharm, Eclipse, MyEclipse, JDeveloper and RAD. Front end development experience using HTML, CSS, JQuery, JSON and JavaScript.  • Experience in Implementation of MVC architecture using Spring MVC and SOAP web service and SOAPUI.  • Proficient with Apache Web Server 2.0, MySQL 5, CVS, UNIX Shell Script, CSS, XML, Firefox 3.5, IE 6 Browser Compatibility Issues, IIS and Linux  • Hands on experience programming with C++, PYTHON, DJANGO and AJAX technologies.  • Proficient in using IBM Clear Case, Subversion (SVN), VSS, GIT for Version controlling.  • Goods hands on user authentication and authorization between multiple systems, servers, and environments. Active Participation in full development life cycle (requirements, design, architecture, development, testing).  • Experienced in developing UNIX shell scripts as well as wrapper scripts.  • Participated in all phases of the System Development Life Cycle Analysis (SDLC).  • Experienced in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM Process.  • Experience with Unit testing/ Test driven Development (TDD), Load Testing.  • Excellent debugging, problem solving, optimization and testing skills.  • Excellent analytical and problem solving skills and ability to work on own besides being a valuable and contributing team player. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Lenevo - Raleigh, NC April 2015 to Present Responsibilities:  • Actively involved in developing the methods for Create, Read, Update and Delete (CRUD) in Active Record.  • Involved in designing application system requirements and coded back-end and front-end in Python.  • Knowledge of cross-browser and cross-platform development of HTML and CSS based websites in Windows like IE 6, IE 7, IE 8 and FF.  • Participated in providing change requests, trouble reports and requirements collection with the client.  • Implemented and modified various SQL queries and Functions, Cursors and Triggers as per the client requirements.  • Managed code versioning with BitBucket and deployment to staging and production servers.  • Implemented task object to interface with data feed framework and invoke database message service setup and update functionality.  • Working under UNIX environment in development of application using Python and familiar with all of its commands.  • Developed remote integration with third party platforms by using RESTful web services.  • Used regular expressions in order to match the pattern with the existing one and store them in database on a chronological basis.  • Improved code reuse and performance by making effective use of various design patterns and refactoring code base.  • Involved in analysis and design of the application features.  • Was involved in debugging and troubleshooting programming related issues.  • Worked in MySQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization and de-normalization.  • Deployment of the web application using the Ubuntu server.  Environment: Python 2.7, HTML5, CSS, XML, MySQL, JavaScript, JQuery, CSS Bootstrap, RESTful, MS SQL Server, Ubuntu server, Windows 12 Server, Amazon S3, Jenkins, My SQL, Mongo DB, GitHub, Bit Bucket, Linux, and Windows. Python Developer Call One - Chicago, IL July 2013 to March 2015 Responsibilities  • Worked with the design team for project structure.  • Developed a portal to manage and entities in a content management system using Flask  • Designed the database schema for the content management system Performed Design and Code reviews.  • Implemented the presentation layer with HTML, DHTML, Ajax, CSS and JavaScript.  • Performed coding in C++ on Linux Platform.  • Involved in writing stored procedures using MySQL.  • Optimized the database queries to improve the performance.  • Developed in Windows and going to deploy it in Linux server.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Worked on data exchange from website using XML, JAVA and Web Services.  • Environment C++, XML, Java, MYSQL, Apache, CSS, ORACLE, DHTML, HTML, JavaScript, Shell Scripts, Linux and Windows, flask, Python.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.8, MySQL, Windows, Linux, HTML, CSS, JQuery, JavaScript, Apache, Linux. Python Developer Rockwell Collins - Cedar Rapids, IA January 2011 to June 2013 Responsibilities  • Gathered requirements from stakeholders, worked on design documents.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django/Java module to deliver certain format of data.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using python.  • Responsible for search engine optimization to improve the visibility of the website.  • Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  • Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  Environment: Python, Java, MySQL, Linux, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, Apache Web Server. Java Developer HDFC - IN August 2008 to November 2010 Responsibilities  • Responsible for using AJAX framework with JQuery, Dojo implementation for Widgets and Events handling.  • Customizing Log4J for maintaining information and debugging.  • Preparing builds, deploy and co-ordinate with the release management team to ensure that the proper process is followed during the release.  • Customizing third party vendor information using Web services (SOAP and WSDL)  • Designed DTD's for XML representation of data.  • Worked with development of data access beans using hibernate, middle ware web service components.  • Develop the GUI using JSP, spring web flow following spring web MVC pattern.  • Implemented persistence layer using Hibernate that use the POJOs to represent the persistence database tables.  • Used SVN for version control across common source code used by developers.  • Written the JUNIT test cases for the functionalities.  • Used Log4j for application logging and debugging.  Environment: Java, JDK, J2EE, JSP, Spring, Servlets, JavaScript, XML, HTML, CSS, Web Services (RESTful), XML, XSLT, Ajax, Log4j, Tortoise SVN, Rational Application Developer, WebSphere application server, Red hat Linux, JBOSS. Education Bachelor of Technology in Technology JNTU - Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh Additional Information TECHNICALSKILLS:  Web Technologies: JSP, XML, UML, JSON, HTML, XSLT, JavaScript, CSS, DHTML,  Servlets, JSF, Ajax, JSTL  Languages: Java, J2EE, SQL/PLSQL, Python, UNIX shell scripting  Frameworks & Tools: JDK, Spring, Struts 1.1, 1.2, 2.0, Hibernate 2.0, 3.0, JUnit, Django,  Easy Mock, Log4j  Servers: Apache Tomcat, Zope, IIS, Nginx, JBoss, WebLogic, WebSphere  Middleware: Soap Web Services, Rest Web services, JMS, Mule ESB, IBM Cast iron, Apache Kafka  Methodologies: Agile (Scrum, eXtreme, JIRA), SDLC, TDD  Version Controls: GIT, SVN  IDE Platforms: Eclipse, PyCharm, Canopy (EPD), Spyder, Sublime text, NetBeans  Operating Systems: Windows, UNIX, Linux, Mac OS X