Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - Express Scripts St. Louis, MO • Having 7+ years of experience as a Python Developer with deep understanding of technology trends with expertise in core of complex technologies. Solid experience in Analysis, Design and Development, Testing, Implementation, production support and maintenance of various Web Applications using Python, Django, Bottle framework.  • Extensive experience in Requirement Analysis, Application Design & Development and profound knowledge on SDLC using agile and V-model.  • Experienced in working with various Python IDE's using PyCharm, PyScripter, PyStudio and Bottle framework.  • Experienced in developing Web-based Applications using Python, CSS, HTML, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AJAX, J2EE, jQuery, JSON, jQuery UI, XML, Angular JS and jQuery also involving Beautiful Soap, Numpy, Scipy, Matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas Dataframe, urlib2 libraries.  • Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language and good knowledge of Web Services with protocols SOAP, REST.  • Experienced in developing API services in Python/Tornado, NodeJS while leveraging AMQP and RabbitMQ for distributed architectures.  • Expertise in developing web-based applications using libraries and frameworks like Bottle, Angular JS, Bootstrap, jQuery, Ruby on Rails, Knockout.js, Node Js, Backbone.js, React JS, D3 JS and Require JS.  • Experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts also involving Beautiful Soap, Numpy, Scipy, Matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas Data frame, urlib2 libraries.  • Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MySQL and Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python/PHP) Architecture.  • Experienced with databases using ORMs/DOMs for integrating with MySQL, PostgreSQL, Neo4J, MongoDB and Cassandra SQLite. Also, experienced with writing custom queries through database connectors.  • Experience in building strong websites confirming Web 2.0 standards using jQuery, HTML5, XHTML, DHTML & CSS3 to develop valid code and table-free sites.  • Hands on experience in Amazon AWS S3 and worked extensively on Big Data analytical models developed in Python.  • Extensive use of Object Oriented design methodology and Agile in software development and experience in Building web applications using Kendo UI widgets, jQuery, Angular JS.  • Experience object-oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, C++ and PHP and expertise in NoSQL technologies like MongoDB, CouchDB Cassandra, Redis and relational databases like Oracle, SQLite, Postgre SQL and MySQL databases.  • Experience on Web development using HTML 4/5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Angularjs, AJAX, XML and JSON by following W3C standards also involving Beautiful Soap, Numpy, Scipy, Matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas Dataframe, urlib2 libraries.  • Proficient in developing multithreaded web services using CherryPy &bottlePy framework andleveraging queuing architectures with RabbitMQ for scalability, performance and building also involving Beautiful Soap, NumPy, Scipy, Matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas Dataframe, urlib2 libraries.  • Knowledge in working with continuous deployment using Heroku and Jenkins and experienced on Cloud innovations including Infrastructure as a Service, Platform as a Service, and Software as a Service supplier (IaaS, PaaS, and SaaS).  • Proficient in writing unit testing code using Unit Test/PyTest and integrating the test code with the build process worked on Python Testing frameworks like Bottle, zope, pytest, nose and Robot framework also involving Beautiful Soap, NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas Dataframe, urlib2 libraries.  • Well versed with Agile with SCRUM, Waterfall Model and Test-driven development methodologies experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache.  • Experienced in developing Web-based applications using Django, Python, C++, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap, REST, AJAX.  • Experience in working with different operating systems like LINUX, UNIX and WINDOWS and developed web applications and RESTful web services and APIs using Python Flask, Django and PHP also involving Beautiful Soap, NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas Data frame, urlib2 libraries. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Python Developer Express Scripts - St. Louis, MO September 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Written functional PHP unit test cases for Data Layer, and Search server classes using Django, Flask, Curl, XML, JSON, REST base services and MongoDB and created restful web services for Catalog and Pricing with Django MVT, Jersey, XML, MySQL, and MongoDB.  • Interact with backend using Hibernate Framework and got involved in Coding of Enterprise Java Beans, which implements business rules, and business logic.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Development of Python APIs to dump the array structures in the Processor at the failure point for debugging and involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Involved in developing the classes and JavaBeans and did the representation of the system in hierarchy form by defining the components, subcomponents using Python and developed set of library functions over the system based on the user needs.  • Responsible for setting up AngularJS framework for UI development. Developed html views with HTML5, CSS3, JSON and AngularJS, Angular2, Angular4, Adobe flash.  • Developed multiple spark batch jobs in Scala using Spark SQL and performed transformations using many APIs and update master data in Cassandra database as per the business requirement.  • Used Python based GUI components for the front-end functionality such as selection criteria. Administration of dedicated collocated RHEL 4 machine and configured complex Apache configuration files and added support for Amazon AWSS3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Using REST Web services to integrate agile tool and XL release for SDLC in the project and implemented the presentation layer with HTML, DHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Written Python scripts to parse JSON documents and load the data into the database and done the data manipulations on the client side are done by using jQuery.  • Used Selenium Library to write fully functioning test automation process that allowed the simulation of submitting different requests from multiple browsers to web application and created Data tables utilizing PyQt to display customer and policy information and add, delete, update customer records also involving Beautiful Soap, Numpy, Scipy, Matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas Dataframe, urlib2 libraries.  • Used Python and Django and creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation and utilized in-depth knowledge of Technical experience in LAMP and other leading-edge products and technology in conjunction with industry and business skills to deliver solutions to customer.  • Coded various business process methods required for creation of Web Services related to customer information and provider information, using JAX-WS, SOAP, WSDL and JAX-RS, REST web services.  • Designed the front end of the application using Python, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON and jQuery. Worked on backend of the application.  • Written Spark-Scala scripts, by creating multiple udf's, spark context, Cassandra sql context, multiple API's, methods which support dataframes, RDD's, dataframe Joins, Cassandra table joins and finally write/save the dataframes/RDD's to Cassandra database as part of the POC migrated the data from source systems to another environment using Spark, SparkSQL.  • Developed and implemented core API services using Python with spark. Representation of the system in hierarchy form by defining the components, subcomponents using Python and developed set of library functions over the system based on the user needs also involving Beautiful Soap, Numpy, Scipy, Matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas Dataframe, urlib2 libraries.  • Used Tableau to automatically generate reports, Worked with partially adjudicated insurance flat files, internal records, 3rd party data sources, JSON, XML and more. Sr. Python Developer Multi Plan - New York, NY May 2016 to August 2017 Responsibilities  • Parsed various file formats including XML and JSON and loaded into Oracle database with Python XML and JSON modules  • Developed parsers for Extracting data from different sources of web services and transforming to store in various formats such as CSV, Database files, HDFS storage, etc. then to perform analysis.  • Parsers written in Python for extracting useful data from the design data base. Used Parsekit (Enigma.io) framework (Bottle etc.) for writing Parsers for ETL extraction and implemented Algorithms for Data Analysis from Cluster of Web services.  • Worked with lxml to dynamically generate SOAP requests based on the services. Developed custom Hash-Key (HMAC) based algorithm in Python for Web Service authentication and worked with ReportLab PDF library to dynamically generate the PDF documents with Images and data retrieved from various sources of Web services also involving Beautiful Soap, NumPy, Scipy, Matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas Dataframe, urlib2 libraries.  • Built the Web API on the top of Flask/ Bottle framework to perform REST methods. Used MongoDB and MySQL databases in Web API development. Developed database migrations using SQLAlchemy Migration.  • Generated graphical reports using python package NumPy and matplotlib and did the usage of advance features like pickle/unpickle in python for sharing the information across the applications.  • Responsible for setting up Python REST API framework using Django and managed datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL, queried MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL db package to retrieve information and utilized Python libraries wxPython, numPY, Twisted and mat PlotLib also involving Beautiful Soap, Numpy, Scipy, Matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas Dataframe, urlib2 libraries and build all database mapping classes using Django models and cassandra.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AJAX, J2EE, jQuery, JSON, jQuery UI, XML documents and load the data in database and used Wireshark, live http headers, and Fiddler2 debugging proxy to debug the Flash object and help the developer create a functional component. The PHP page for displaying the data uses AJAX to sort and display the data. The page also outputs data to .csv for viewing in Microsoft Excel.  • Used Django framework in developing web applications to implement the model view control architecture (MVC).  • Refactored and extended large existing Django/ Python code base, reducing the number of lines in code and duplication significantly.  • Writing Python scripts with Cloud Formation templates to automate installation of Auto scaling, EC2, VPC, and other services and familiarization with UNIX / Linux internals, basic cryptography & security.  • Using Jenkins AWS Code Deploy plugin to deploy to AWS and involved in Continuous Integration (CI) and Continuous Delivery (CD) process implementation using Jenkins along with Shell script.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, among odbrtists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, ROBOT/ Bottle framework, Bootstrap, CSS, and HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AJAX, J2EE, JSON, jQuery UI, XML and created complex dynamic HTML UI using jQuery and automated Regression analysis for determining fund returns based on index returns ( Python/Excel)  • Developed build and deployment scripts using ANT and MAVEN as build tools in Jenkins to move from one environment to other environments.  • Used third party jQuery-based plug-ins like jQuery UI, Data tables etc. Heavily used JavaScript for Form Submit and other UI elements during development also involving Beautiful Soap, Numpy, Scipy, Matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas Dataframe, urlib2 libraries. Python Developer Alphabet INC - Mountain View, CA August 2014 to April 2016 Responsibilities:  • Translated the customer requirements into design specifications and ensured that the requirements translate into software solution application based on service-oriented architecture and used Python 2.5, Django 1.5, JSF 2, Spring 2, Bottle framework, Ajax, HTML, CSS for the frontend.  • Involved in creating Servlets and Java Server Pages (JSP), which route submittals to the appropriate Enterprise Java Bean (EJB) components and render retrieved information using Session Facade.  • Designed the front end of the application using Python, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON and jQuery. Worked on backend of the application, mainly using Active Records.  • Involved in the design, development and testing phases of application using AGILE methodology and developed and designed an API (RESTful Web Service)  • Used the Python language to develop web-based data retrieval systems and designed and maintained databases using Python and developed Python based API (RESTful Web Service) using Flask, SQLAlchemy and PostgreSQL and developed web sites using Django, Flask, Python, XHTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Contributed in migrating data from Oracle database to Apache Cassandra (a NoSQL database) using SSTableloader.  • Developed and designed e-mail marketing campaigns using HTML and CSS and tested and implemented applications built using Python.  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures, trigger and function on MYSQL and developed shopping cart for Library and integrated web services to access the payment.  • Used PHP language on lamp server to develop page and developed server-based web traffic statistical analysis tool using Flask, Pandas and developed UI using CSS, HTML, JavaScript, AngularJS, JQuery and JSON.  • Implemented and tested python-based web applications interacting with MySQL and developed dynamic interaction page on .net MS visual basic 2014, using SQL developer tools.  • Simple web app for reviewing sitcoms that gives users the ability to view, add, review, up/down vote, search, etc and performed joins, group by and other operations in MapReduce using Python.  • Handled importing of data from various data sources, performed transformations using Hive, MapReduce, and loaded data into HDFS.  • Wrote MapReduce code to make un-structured data into semi- structured data and loaded into Hive tables and supported MapReduce Programs those are running on the cluster.  • Executed queries using Hive and developed MapReduce jobs to analyze data and involved in doing AGILE (SCRUM) practices and planning of sprint attending daily agile (SCRUM) meetings and SPRINT retrospective meetings to produce quality deliverables within time. Software Developer Amdocs - Mumbai, Maharashtra August 2012 to July 2014 Responsibilities:  • Programmed the components using C/C++.  • Software release to internal clients by compiling the code into C/C++ libraries and implementing the APIs.  • Created UI using HTML CSS and JavaScript.  • Created Servlets and Beans to implement Business Logic.  • Used SAX/DOM Parser for parsing the data to Oracle Database.  • Implemented the presentation layer with HTML, DHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Designed object model, data model, tables, constraints, necessary stored procedures, functions, triggers, and packages for Oracle Database.  • Designed and created backend data access modules using PL/SQL stored procedures and Oracle.  • Developed and executed User Acceptance Testing portion of test plan.  • Involved in development of Java concepts like Collections, Exception Handling, Multi-Threading.  • Worked on MVC pattern, using various frameworks.  • Worked on WebSphere as application deployment servers.  • Adopted agile methods for development & delivery of the solution and participated in complete life cycle of the project (SDLC).  • Designed the Database, written triggers and stored procedures.  • Developed screens based on jQuery to dynamically generate HTML ad display data to the client side. Debugging Software for Bugs. Education Bachelor's Skills Python, Django, Flask, Javascript, Java