Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - TJX Waldorf, MD • 7+ Years of experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Testing, Customization, Bug fixes, Enhancement, Support and Implementation of various web, stand-alone, client-server enterprise applications using Python, Django in various domains.  • Experience working in Java, JavaScript, and Python software development environments.  • Experience with Design, code, and debug operations, reporting, data analysis and web applications utilizing Python.  • Experience in developing web-based applications using Python 2.7/2.6, Django 1.4/1.3, PHP, Flask, Webapp2, Angular.js, VB, C++, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Proficient in Front end development experience using HTML, XML, CSS, JQuery, JSON, JavaScript, CSS and Bootstrap.  • Good experience of software development in Python (libraries used: Beautiful Soup, numpy, scipy, matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas data frame, network, urllib2, MySQL dB for database connectivity) and IDEs - sublime text, Spyder, pycharm, Emacs.  • Very strong experience writing API's/ and Web Services in PHP and in Python.  • Utilized Python Pandas framework to provide data analysis.  • Experienced in working on Application Servers like WebSphere, WebLogic, Tomcat, Web Servers like Apache server, NGINX and Integrated Development Environments like Pycharm, Eclipse, MyEclipse, JDeveloper and RAD.  • Developed consumer based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML, Behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pair based programming.  • Strong Experience in Big data technologies including Apache Spark, Hadoop, HDFS, Hive, Cassandra, MongoDB.  • Experienced with batch processing of data sources using Apache Spark.  • Good working experience in processing large datasets with Spark using Scala and Pyspark.  • Good experience in developing web applications implementing MVT/MVC architecture using Django, Flask, Webapp2 and spring web application frameworks.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Wrote AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings.  • Experience with creating scripts for data modeling and data import and export. Extensive experience in deploying, managing and developing MongoDB clusters.  • Experience in using UNIX shell Scripts for automating batch programs.  • Experience in performing signal processing and machine learning algorithm development for a variety of programs.  • Experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Experience with Unit testing/ Test driven Development (TDD), Load Testing.  • Excellent debugging, problem solving, optimization and testing skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer TJX - Marlborough, MA August 2014 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web based solution.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and template language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Representation of the system in hierarchy form by defining the components, subcomponents using Python and developed set of library functions over the system based on the user needs.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Designed and implemented Model-View-View Model pattern for many components in the project (Contracts, Products, Search Sales, Employees, BackOffice Admin).  • Created Data tables utilizing PyQtto display customer and policy information and add, delete, update customer records.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Used Django framework for application development.  • Development of Python APIs to dump the array structures in the Processor at the failure point for debugging.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for easy timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Automated Regression analysis for determining fund returns based on index returns ( Python/Excel).  • Developed server based web traffic statistical analysis tool using Flask, Pandas.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Designed Data Quality Framework to perform schema validation and data profiling on Spark (Pyspark)  • Leveraged spark (Pyspark) to manipulate unstructured data and apply text mining on user's table utilization data  • Used JQuery and Ajax calls for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  • Creating restful web services for Catalog and Pricing with Django MVT, Jersey, MySQL, and MongoDB.  • Used SOAP and Restful API for information extraction.    Environment: Python, Django, HTML, CSS, Javascript, JQuery, SOAP, MVT, MySQL, MongoDB. Python Developer Huntington - Columbus, OH November 2012 to July 2014 Responsibilities:  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Utilized PyQt to provide GUI for the user to create, modify and view reports based on client data.  • Created a Python/Django based web application using Python scripting for data processing, MySQL for the database, and HTML/CSS/JQuery and High Charts for data visualization of the served pages.  • Developed user interface using CSS, HTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Used standard Python modules e.g. csv, robot parser, itertools, pickle, jinja2, lxml for development.  • Rewrite existing Java application in Python module to deliver certain format of data.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, JQuery and REST API calls.  • Utilize PyUnit, the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications.  • Developing predictive analytic using Apache Spark Scala APIs.  • Used Numpy and pandas for Numerical and statistical analysis.  • Applied MLlib for data mining and tuning parameters to seek the best model in test datasets.  • Responsible for search engine optimization to improve the visibility of the website.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the JQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Successful implementation of Apache Spark and Spark Streaming applications for large scale data.  • Creating data pipelines using Apache Spark, a big-data processing and computing framework.  • Planning, implementing, and converting manual test cases to automation test cases.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code  • Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Created a Git repository and added the project to GitHub.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Wrote Python modules to extract/load asset data from the MySQL source database.  • Manage MySQL content database, security and role management, apply updates, and maintain schema and documentation.  • Resolved ongoing problems and accurately documented progress of a project.    Environment: Python, Django, Web Framework, HTML, CSS, JQuery UI, MySQL, Python/Software Developer Heartbeat Software - New York, NY January 2012 to October 2012 Responsibilities:  • Involved in the Design, development, test, deploy and maintenance of the website.  • Translated the customer requirements into design specifications and ensured that the requirements translate into software solution.  • Used Python based GUI components for the front end functionality such as selection criteria.  • Developed GUI using webapp2 for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of python code using a web browser.  • Responsible for user validations on client side as well as server side.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Used JQuery libraries for all client side JavaScript manipulations.  • Exposure on Multi-Threading factory to distribute learning process back-testing and the into various worker processes.  • Managed large datasets using Pandas data frames and MySQL.  • Added the navigations and paginations and filtering columns and adding and removing the desired columns for view.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile).  • Designed and created backend data access modules using PL/SQL stored procedures and Oracle.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Developed and executed User Acceptance Testing portion of test plan.  • Developed, tested and debugged software tools utilized by clients and internal customers.  • Held overall responsibility of coordination of implementations of software builds and releases.  • Provided analytics to help determine optimal way to assemble releases.  • Facilitated release planning meetings to construct efficient releases that reflect demand and capacity.    Environment: Python, MySQL, XML, JIRA. Software Developer ThinkGuy Solutions - IN September 2008 to October 2011 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Design and development of UI screens for Add and Update Lending Application using Struts frame work.  • Involved in developing the business components using JAVA and JDBC.  • Design and development of UI screens using JSP.  • Worked with AJAX framework to get the asynchronous response for the user request and used JavaScript for the validation.  • Developed user-friendly modals for the form submissions using simplemodal.js, JQuery, Ajax and JavaScript.  • Used MVC Architecture in spring framework and implemented custom tag libraries.  • Generated Use case diagrams, Activity flow diagrams, Class diagrams and Object diagrams in the design phase.  • Implemented client side validations for Search and Security modules using JavaScript and Validation Framework.  • Built web-services using SOAP that allowed integrating the business application with the legacy applications and also facilitates for future applications.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  • Used JavaScript and XML to update a portion of a webpage.  • Used Python based GUI components for the front-end functionality such as selection criteria.  • Developed the dynamic User Interface using JSP utilizing Custom Tag Libraries, HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Used Object Oriented Application Design (OOA/D) for deriving objects and classes.  • Created tables, views, Types, triggers, complex join queries, stored procedures, and functions and modifications to existing database structure as required for addition of new features using SQL developer.    Environment: Java, JDBC, Python, XML, OOA, SQL, JQuery, AJAX. Education Bachelors Andhra University Additional Information Technical Skills  Primary Languages: Python, Java, C  Python Libraries: Beautiful Soup, numpy, scipy, matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas data frame, urllib2  Frameworks: Bootstrap, Django, Node.JS, Flask, PyJamas, Pyspark, Pyramid, Hibernate  Database: Sqlite3, MySQL, Mongo DB, Hadoop, Oracle 11g  IDE's: Pycharm, Eclipse, NetBeans, MS Visual Studio, PyDev, RIDE  Servers: Apache Tomcat, WebSphere, JBoss, WebLogic, XAMPP  Deployment tools: MS Azure, Heroku, Amazon Web Services (EC2, S3, EBS, ELB, SES)  Web Technologies: HTML, CSS, DHTML, XML, Java Script  Operating systems: Windows, Mac, Fedora Linux, Red hat Linux  SDLC Methods: SCRUM, Agile  Testing Frameworks: Junit, TestNG, ROBOT, JXL, JTest  Bug Tracking Tools: Axosoft, JIRA, Bugzilla, Rational Clear-quest  Version Controls: VSS, SVN, GitHub, Git