Sr. Python Developer Sr.<span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - Boston Scientific Corp San Jose, CA • 8+ years of experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Management and Implementation of various stand-alone and client-server enterprise applications.  • Experienced in using editors Eclipse, PyCharm, PyScripter, Jupyter, Notepad++ and Sublime Text while developing different applications.  • Expertise in Unix and Linux Kernels (file validations, file downloads, workflow executions).  • Worked on Amazon SQS, and Amazon Web Services like EC2, Redshift, Lambda and S3.  • Excellent expertise in debugging, problem solving, optimization and testing skills  • Wrote Stored Procedures, Cursors, Functions, performed data analysis using PL/SQL, SQL Queries, packages, tables, views and triggers.  • Used different pyspark APIs to perform necessary transformations and actions on the data which gets from Kafka in real time.  • Strong experience of software development in Python (libraries used: libraries- Beautiful Soup, numpy, scipy, matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas dataframe, networkx, urllib2, MySQLdb for database connectivity) and IDEs - sublime text, Spyder, pycharm, emacs.  • Understanding of Machine Learning ("ML") concepts including modeling, training, testing & validation with application development of such algorithms in work projects & non-academic environments  • Experienced in implementing Object Oriented Python, Hash Tables (Dictionaries) and Multithreading, Django, MYSQL.  • Involved in deployment of projects using AWS.  • Hands on experience in installation, configuration, supporting and managing Hadoop Clusters using Apache, Cloudera (CDH5.x), Yarn distributions.  • Experience in documenting and maintaining reports and helping with software release process.  • Skilled in Object-Oriented Design and Object-Oriented Programming using Python and C++.  • Expertise in working with different data bases OracleMySQL, PostgreSQL and Good knowledge in using NoSQL databases MongoDB.  • Architected and developed a Golang API using TDD to aggregate data to show application server alignment.  • Knowledge in R programming, mainly with statistical interference.  • Experienced with various development methodologies like Waterfall, Scrum and Agile.  • Experience in developing Web based application using Python, Django, PHP, C++, XML, HTML, DHTML, MVC, Bootstrap, RESTful, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Have very good experience in developing Test Frameworks, and experience on working with Django framework.  • Experience in writing JSON REST APIs using Golang.  • Configured NoSQL databases like Apache Cassandra and Mongo DB to for increasing compatibility with Django.  • Experienced in development of web based applications using Python, server Apache Tomcat, Web logic.  • Expertise in SQL and PL/SQL programming, developing complex code units, database triggers and using the latest features to optimize performance.  • Experienced with version control systems like Git, GitHub, CVS, and SVN to keep the versions and configurations of the code organized.  • Good experience on Design, configure and manage the backup and disaster recovery for Hadoop data  • Expertise knowledge in various stages of SDLC (Software Development Life Cycle), Software Testing Life Cycle (STLC) and QA methodologies from project definition to post-deployment documentation.  • Excellent expertise in verbal and written skills, especially with regards to presenting findings to both technical and nontechnical audiences.  • Experience of dealing with Ansible to manage all the existing servers and automate the build process/configuration of new servers.  • Experienced with containerizing applications using Docker  • Highly motivated, dedicated, quick learner and have proven ability to work individually and as a team. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Python Developer Boston Scientific Corp - San Jose, CA August 2017 to Present Description: Boston Scientific Corporation, doing business as Boston Scientific, is a manufacturer of medical devices used in interventional medical specialties, including interventional radiology, interventional cardiology, peripheral interventions, neuromodulation, neurovascular intervention.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in developing frontend modules using Python, MySQL.  • Used HTML/CSS, AJAX, JSON, jQuery and JavaScript for front-end applications and UI development.  • Used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Design and develop streaming data processing and data services using Kafka, Spark streaming,  • Created data access using SQL and PL/SQL stored procedures.  • Worked extensively on Multithreading and Concurrency for implementing Batch Job Scheduling.  • Performed Data Modelling, Data Integration, Data Warehousing and Data Analytics using Microsoft BI suite -SISS, SSAS and SQL.  • Involved in managing MongoDB environment from availability, performance and scalability perspectives.  • Installed and maintained web servers Tomcat and Apache HTTP in UNIX.  • Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, Oracle DB, PostgreSQL, and VMWare API calls.  • Involved in the Complete Software development life cycle (SDLC) to develop the application and Worked closely with software developers and DevOps to debug software and system problems.  • Designed and developed big data algorithms using Hadoop and Java to improve forecasting and used Hive QL to generate reports.  • Developed Unit, Integration and Performance Test Cases using Junit, Selenium and Rational Function Tester.  • Worked on HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AngularJS, Node.JS, Git, REST API, Mongo DB.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Managed our servers in development, testing, certification and production.  • Used Linux profiler Val grind for optimization of code.  • Worked in MySQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization and renormalization.  • Automated RabbitMQ cluster installations and configuration using Python/Bash.  • Implemented the presentation layer with HTML, DHTML, Ajax, CSS and JavaScript.  • Implemented locking mechanisms using multi-threading functionality.  • Developed in Windows and deployed it in Linux server.  • Worked on data exchange from website using XML, Java and Web Services.  • Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.4, HTML5, CSS, MYSQL, JavaScript, jQuery, CSS Bootstrap, PyCharm, GitHub, Linux, Shell Scripting. Sr. Python Developer PIMCO - Newport, CA June 2015 to July 2017 Description: Pacific Investment Management Company, LLC is an American investment management firm focusing on fixed income and headquartered in Newport Beach, California. The company provides mutual funds and other portfolio management and asset allocation services for millions of investors worldwide.  Responsibilities:  ? Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  ? Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators, and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  ? Worked on UI using HTML5, CSS3 and Java Scripts.  ? Continuous monitoring and managing the Hadoop cluster using Cloudera Manager  ? Developed multi-threaded standalone app in Python and PHP to view performance.  ? Performed data extraction and manipulation over large relational datasets using SQL, Python, and other analytical tools.  ? Used Python libraries and SQL queries/subqueries to create several datasets which produced statistics, tables, figures, charts and graphs.  ? Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  ? Version control using GITHub.  ? Involved in writing stored procedures using MySQL.  ? Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  ? Responsible for setting up Python REST API framework using Django.  ? Developed views and templates with Python and Django view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  ? Developed web applications in Django Framework model view control (MVC) architecture.  ? Used Python to write data into JSON files for testing Django Websites. Created scripts for data modelling and data import and export.  ? Used JQuery and Ajax calls for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  ? Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web based solution.  ? Thorough knowledge in various front end tools like HTML, CSS, JavaScript, XML, JQuery, AngularJS, and AJAX. Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  ? Used object-relational mapper (ORM) to automate the transfer of data stored in relational databases tables into objects.  ? Used Python based GUI components for the front-end functionality such as selection criteria.  ? Created test harness to enable comprehensive testing utilizing Python.  ? Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) for improved efficiency of storage and fast access.  ? Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  ? Created Data tables utilizing PyQt to display customer and policy information and add, delete, update customer records.  ? Used PyQuery for selecting DOM elements when parsing HTML.  ? Created Business Logic using Python to create Planning and Tracking functions.  ? Created UI Screens for initiation and validation.    Environment: Python, Django Shell Scripting, AWS, Pandas, PyQt, PyQuery, Flash, DOM, JSON, PHP, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JavaScript, Bootstrap, Apache Web Server, MYSQL, GitHub, LINUX. Python Developer Healthcare services corporation September 2013 to May 2015 Description: Health Care Service Corporation, a Mutual Legal Reserve Company (HCSC), and an Independent Licensee of the Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association, is the largest customer-owned health insurer in the United States and fourth largest overall, operating through our Blue Cross and Blue Shield Plans in Illinois. HCSC is dedicated to expanding access to high quality, cost-effective health care and equipping our members with information and tools so they can make the best health care decisions for themselves and their families.    Responsibilities:  • Developed application logic using Python, Java script, Java, C++  • Used JMS for updating Mailing plans and tracking them.  • Used Java Server Pages for content layout and presentation.  • Created Data layer in MYSQL.  • Successfully coordinated and developed the deployment process  • Documented the entire build and deployment process including detailed step-by-step instructions  • Supported multiple parallel projects by creating processes & procedures for reusing existing code  • Extracted and loaded data using Python scripts and PL/SQL packages  • Supported Java application for Media portal management.  • Added Buy side and Sell side interfaces to route and receive orders over FIX as TCP/IP packets on a given port. Used FIX Simulator behind the scenes.  • Migrated C and C++ tasks to Python. Generated SWIG interfaces for tasks that are good to be left in C++. Interacted with Python using SWIG interfaces.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using python.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code  • Debugging and testing of the applications & fine-tuning performance. Provided maintenance support in production environment.  • Developed exhaustive SQL Queries to find differences in datasets to find out whether rolled out software has fixed issues.  • Developed scripts to migrate data from proprietary database to MySQL.  • Followed Agile and Scrum Methodologies. Used Jira and other proprietary ticketing systems.    Environment: Java, Python, JavaScript, HTML/CSS, MySQL, PL/SQL, JDBC, Unix Shell Scripting, Red Hat Linux, WebLogic Application Server. Software Developer Python - IN June 2010 to August 2013 Description:  Camirine is a leading global consulting and IT services company with over a decade of on-site and offshore Engagements, which continue to deliver IT solutions. Camirine is a diverse end-to-end IT solutions provider, helping our customers leverage the market knowledge, technical skills and rich industry experience we have gathered through the years. Our methodologies follow best practices and adhere to ever-changing industry standards, so that our customers can achieve their goals through faster time-to-market at the most affordable prices.    Responsibilities:  • Worked with the Stakeholders, gathered requirements developed High level design Detail design documents.  • Developed UI using HTML, AJAX, JavaScript and jQuery and jQueryUI.  • Re-engineered various modules for implementing changes and creating efficient system.  • Developed rich UI web application using JavaScript libraries like jQueryUI, data grid, jscolor, high charts.  • Designed and developed components using Python. Implemented code in python to retrieve and manipulate data.  • Implemented database access using Django ORM.  • Used MySQL as backend database and MySQL dB of python as database connector to interact with MySQL server.  • Used Restful APIs to access data from different suppliers.  • Support the scripts configuration, testing, execution, deployment and run monitoring and metering.  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing of documents, data exchange and business logic implementation between servers.  • Used Restful API's to gather network traffic data from Servers.  • Supported Apache Tomcat web server on Linux Platform.  • Developed and executed User Acceptance Testing portion of test plan.  • Debugging Software for Bugs    Environment: Python, C++, JavaScript, MySQL, Shell Scripting, PL/SQL, Unix, Linux, Agile, pylint, Jenkins. Education Bachelor's Additional Information Technical Skills:  Programming Languages Python, C, C++, Java, GoLang    Technologies HTML, XHTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, XML, JSON  Frameworks Django, Flask, Pyramid, Struts  Databases Oracle, Sql Server, MySQL, NoSQL, PostgreSQL, DB2, MongoDB, and Cassandra  Web Services AWS, RESTful Web Services, SOAP  Version Control Git, GitHub, SVN, CVS  IDE's/Development Tools PyCharm, Eclipse, Sublime Text, NetBeans  Protocols TCP/IP, HTTP/HTTPS, SNMP, SMTP, NetFlow, SFlow  Deployment Tools Heroku, Jenkins    Operating Systems UNIX, Linux, Windows, Mac OS  Testing Tools Selenium and Junit    Methodologies Agile, Scrum and Waterfall  Python ML Libraries  Numpy, Pandas, Matplotlib, Scikit-Learn, XGBoost, LightGBM, Seaborn, Beautiful Soup, OS, sklearn, Statsmodels, NLTK and Skimage    Python Libraries  Python, Django, Flask, Beautiful Soup, SQLAlchemy, GeoAlchemy, httplib2, Jinja2, HTML/CSS, Bootstrap, jQuery, Pandas, Numpy, PySide, Scipy, wxPython, PyTables,