Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> San Diego, CA • Around 8 years of experience as a web application developer and software engineer using python.  • Proficient coder in multiple languages and environments including Python, SQL, REST API, C++, C.  • Experience object oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, Java and PHP.  • Worked on several standard python packages like Numpy, matPlotLib, Pickle, PySide, Scipy, wxPython, PyTables etc.  • Experienced in developing in web-based applications using Python, DJANGO, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Excellent working knowledge in UNIX and Linux shell environments using command line utilities.  • Hands on experience working in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MYSQL, and Python/PHP) Architecture.  • Familiar with JSON based REST webservices.  • Experienced in working on Application Servers like WebSphere, WebLogic, Tomcat, Web Servers like Apache Server, NGINX and Integrated Development Environments like PyCharm, Eclipse, My Eclipse, JDeveloper, NetBeans and Geany.  • Driven to architect Big Data solutions on multiple platforms using data analytics.  • Good experience in implementing Model View Control (MVC) architecture using server side applications like Django, Flask and Pyramid.  • Experience in Methodology and Standard determination and implementation, System Architecture and Structural Optimization, Development and Deployment.  • Experience-based familiarity with various software development and deployment methodologies.  • Knowledge of deployment tools using Heroku, Jenkins, pylint, cppCheck and Coverity.  • Performed code reviews and implemented best Pythonic programming practices.  • Familiarity with development best practices such as code reviews, unit testing, system integration testing (SIT) and user acceptance testing (UAT).  • Expertise in designing, developing middleware components for software in C/C++ using STL, multithreading, data structures and design patterns.  • Expertise in working with different databases like Microsoft SQL Server, Oracle, MySQL, PostgreSQL and Good knowledge in using NoSQL database MongoDB (2.6,2.4)  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Proficient in developing complex SQL queries, Stored Procedures, Functions, Packages along with performing DDL and DML operations on the database.  • Hands on Experience in Data mining and Data warehousing using ETL Tools and Proficient in Building reports using SSIS, Tidal in Microsoft SQL Server.  • Strong analytical and problem-solving skills, always striving for new knowledge. A person with multi-tasking and organizational skills and high ethical standards.  • Excellent communication and interpersonal skills, ability to work independently as well as part of an integrated team. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Python Developer HP - San Diego, CA August 2014 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in understanding and analysing the client's business, requirements for the system.  • Developed dynamic web pages using Python, Django Frameworks.  • Developed monitoring and notification tools using Python.  • Improved the application by designing and developing it using HTML and JavaScript.  • Involved in the development of front end of the application using Python 2.7, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JSON and JQuery and worked on backend of the application, mainly using Active Records.  • Used data structures like directories, tuples, object oriented class based inheritance features for making complex algorithms of networks.  • Created PHP/MySQL back-end for data entry from Flash, I had to assist the Flash developer send the correct data via query strings.  • Experience in agile environment using a CI/CD model methodology.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing python, in order to build an interactive web based solution.  • Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users.  • Created Data tables utilizing PyQt to display patient and policy information and add, delete, update patient records.  • Wrote a Python module to connect and view the status of an Apache Cassandra instance.  • Developed MVC prototype replacement of current product with Django.  • Significantly improved report generation efficiency by caching, reusing and improve the security level of data.  • Created UI using JavaScript and HTML5/CSS3.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Java, Bootstrap, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Managed datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL, queried MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package to retrieve information.  • Used Jenkins to build and troubleshoot automated testing.  • Rewrite existing Java, C++ application in Python.  • Responsibilities for creation of Database, Business Logic to display the records dynamically on template based on query, providing user permission to access particular features of the site.  • Generated Python Django forms to record data of online users and used PyTest for writing test cases.  • Implementing change requests raised by user for server configuration, kernel tuning, software installation and OS hardening, Managing Linux VMs using Puppet as per some projects requirement.  • Performed unit testing and code reviews.  • Involved in capturing the requirements for serial functional interface and other software requirements specification document.  • Used Test driven approach for developing the application and Implemented the unit tests using Python Unit test framework.  • Build and maintain code libraries to support analytics.  • Resolved ongoing problems and accurately documented progress of a project.  • Designed and configured database and back end applications and programs.  • Update, maintain and change the current web applications as per the project requirement.  • Skilled in using collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django, Beautifulsoup, HTML5, AWS, CSS/CSS3, Bootstrap, XML, JSON, JavaScript, JQuery, Restful Webservices, Apache, Linux, Git, Amazon s3, Jenkins, MySQL, Mongo DB, T-SQL, Eclipse. Python Developer Bloomberg August 2013 to July 2014 Responsibilities:  • Actively participated in gathering Business requirements to implement functional and technical specifications.  • Ability to translate business requirements into technical specifications.  • Breakdown requirements into user stories, product backlogs grooming and manage deliverables.  • Continuous integration, unit tests, code coverage, deployment process plan periodic releases.  • Designed and implemented micro-services in GoLang.  • Read an JSON file as stream of bytes, defined Go struct data type and mapped file data onto to the struct.  • Used GitHub for continuous delivery.  • Developed and managed federal financial instruments and securities data, reporting, analytics, and systems solutions using the Microsoft SQL Server, BI tools like SSIS, SharePoint, Tidal and C++ framework.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL with complete data integrity.  • Dynamic implementation of SQL server works on website using SQL developer tool.  • Used Numpy for Numerical analysis and several python libraries like SymPy, wxPython and matPlotLib.  • Modified C++ programs to support compliance rule automation for a large number of compliance rules for client accounts for both pre and post trade compliance purposes and manage leverage using a large number of metrics like industry exposure, security type, long/short positions, currency / securities / options / futures, credit ratings etc.  • Used C/C++ interface to retrieve/update info from/to the DB.  • Used Python scripts to generate various reports like OATS, P&L, transaction history, user privilages, limit rules and commission schedule reports.  • Approach development with an agile mindset, strong advocate of scrum implementation.  • Unit testing of the fixes and enhancements.  • Implemented client side changes for Rejected product reviews and logging events using Visual Studios.  Environment: C++, GoLang, Cassandra, JSON, UNIX/LINUX, JavaScript, Servlets, JDBC. Python Developer Verizon February 2012 to July 2013 Responsibilities:  • Involved in the Analysis, design and architecture of the application.  • Worked on requirement gathering and High level design.  • Created PHP/MySQL back-end for data entry from Flash, I had to assist the Flash developer send the correct data via query strings.  • Used HTML/CSS, XML and JavaScript for UI development.  • Converted Visual Basic Application to Python, MySQL.  • Generated Python Django Forms, Crispy forms to record data, login and signup of online users.  • Experience in development test automation.  • Designed and Implemented a Random Unique Test Selector Package on processing large volume of data using Python and Django ORM.  • Skilled in using collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  • Designed email marketing campaigns and also created responsive web forms that saved data into a database using Python/ Django Framework.  • Skilled in using collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  • Created Database tables, functions, stored procedures and wrote prepared statements using PL/SQL.  • Modified queries, functions, cursors, triggers and stored procedures for MySQL database to improve performance, while processing data.  • Involved in capturing the requirements for serial functional interface and other software requirements specification document.  • Extensive code reviewing using GitHub pull requests, improved code quality, and also conducted meetings among peer.  • Responsible for Parsing XML data using XML parser and Testing, fixing of the bugs and coding modifications.  • Database Administration activities like taking backup, checking log messages, looking for database optimization.  Environment: Python, Django, Jenkins, MySQL, Linux, HTML, CSS, JQuery, JavaScript, Apache, Linux, Git. Software Developer Indmax - IN June 2009 to January 2012 Responsibilities:  • Involved in designing and developing the functionality and features using C++ and Python.  • Coding and implementation of routing software for handling customer queries and re-routing to appropriate divisions. The customer's calls are automatically answered and place into a holding the queue until an agent becomes available.  • Involved in the code and requirement reviews of work products developed by team members.  • Involved in Application development with C++ and python on IDE Tool Eclipse and web server Tomcat.  • Writing stored procedures in SQL Server and integrated into the application to access the customer's calls, department's data from databases and store the customer's calls, department's data into database.  • Developed, coded, tested, debugged and deployed webservices, MQ for the input and output forms on the webservices.  • Review of design document, code and test case documents.  • Used MySQL as backend database and MySQL dB of python as database connector to interact with MySQL server.  • Designed and developed components using Python. Implemented code in python to retrieve and manipulate data.  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing of documents, data exchange and business logic implementation between servers.  • Used Dependency injection in spring for Service layer and DAO layer.  • Worked on creating various documents that include Use Cases, Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams and Activity Diagrams.  • Created XML Schema, XML template and XSL Developed WebServices Application using SOAP.  • Used Webservices - WSDL and SOAP for getting credit card information from third party.  • Written Servlet and deployed them on WebSphere Application server.  • Developed, coded, tested, debugged and deployed Webservices, MQ for the input and output forms on the web browsers.    Environment: MySQL, Oracle, Python, C, C++, Sun-Solaris, RHEL, pdb, gsoap, ODBC, Struts Framework, JavaScript, Junit, XML, WebLogic Application Server. Education Bachelor of Technology in Electronics & Communication Engineering JNTU Skills DATABASE (7 years), DJANGO (7 years), JAVASCRIPT (7 years), PYTHON (7 years), SQL (7 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:  Programming Languages Python, C, C++, Core Java, JavaScript.    Operating Systems Windows 9x/XP/2000/Vista/7, Windows Server 2008, Sun Solaris, IBM AIX, RHEL, Ubuntu, Fedora.  Libraries  Python, Django, Flask, Beautiful Soup, httplib2, Jinja2, HTML/CSS, AJAX, JSON, Bootstrap, JQuery, Numpy, matPlotLib, PyQt, Pickle, PySide, Scipy, wxPython, PyTables.    Development Tools Sublime Text, Eclipse, emacs, gvim, Notepad++, OpenGrok, Jenkins, Coverity, pylint.  Databases Microsoft SQL Server, Oracle, My SQL, PostgreSQL and NoSQL database MongoDB (2.6,2.4)  Version Controls GitHub, git, cvs, svn.    Methodologies Waterfall, Agile and SCRUM.