Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Eli Lilly Indianapolis, IN • 5+ Years of experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Testing, Customization, Bug fixes, Enhancement, Support and Implementation of various web, stand-alone, client-server enterprise applications using Python, C, Django in various domains.  • Experience working in Java, JavaScript, and Python software development environments. Extensive experience in developing web applications implementing Model View Control architecture using Pyramid, and web application frameworks.  • Experienced with full software development life-cycle, architecting scalable platforms, object oriented programming, database design and agile methodologies.  • Good experience in working with various Python Integrated Development Environments like PyCharm, PyScripter, Spyder, PyStudio, PyDev, NetBeans and Sublime Text.  • Experience in developing web-based applications using Python 2.7/2.6, Django 1.4/1.3, PHP, HTML/HTML5, DHTML, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, AngularJS, Node.JS, AJAX, XML and JSON.  • Experience in Python packages such as NumPy, matPlotlib, Pandas, SciPy, Pickling, JSON  • Pervasive experience on front end frame works like CSS Bootstrap.  • Good Knowledge in setting up Python REST API Framework using Django  • Good knowledge of web services with protocols SOAP, REST.  • Hands on experience in SVN, Git, JIRA, Bugzilla.  • Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache.  • Experienced in various types of testing such as Unit testing, Integration testing, User acceptance testing, Functional testing.  • Proven ability to analyze and understand complex systems, take them apart, and put them back together again, only better, and with fewer lines of code.  • Experience in using Design Patterns such as MVC and frameworks such as Django.  • Good working experience in processing large datasets with Spark using Scala and Pyspark.  • Experienced with batch processing of data sources using Apache Spark.  • Extensively used UNIX shell Scripts for automating batch programs.  • Familiar with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web Services (AWS).  • Experienced in writing SQL Queries, Stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, triggers.  • Worked on JIRA for bug tracking and communicating for better results Strong Experience in Big data technologies including Apache Spark, Hadoop, HDFS, Hive, MongoDB.  • Good knowledge in various stages of SDLC, STLC and QA methodologies from project definition to post-deployment documentation.  • Strong understanding of Agile and Scrum Software Development Life Cycle Methodologies.  • Involved in the issue resolution and Root Cause Analysis.  • Experience in working with different operating systems Windows, UNIX, and Linux.  • Exceptional problem solving and sound decision making capabilities, recognized by associates for quality of data, alternative solutions, and confident, accurate, decision making.  • Excellent analytical and communication skills with ability to interact with individuals at all levels. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Eli Lilly - Indianapolis, IN August 2017 to Present Description:  The Computational Chemistry group within Lilly Research Laboratories (LRL) has a substantial amount legacy code written in C / C++, Ruby, Perl and bash. This legacy code will need to be refactored and / or rewritten to align with LRL IT architectural and DevOps best practices.    Responsibilities:  • Used HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON designed and developed the user interface of the website.  • Wrapper developed in Python to run this application along with other applications.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML and JSON reports and load the information in database.  • Handle UI and server-side programming.  • Created, activated and programmed in Anaconda environment. Wrote programs for performance calculations using NumPy and SQLAlchemy.  • Backend scripting/parsing using Perl and Python  • Enhancing the tests to support 16 threads and run in MP environment.  • Parsers written in Python for extracting useful data from the design data base.  • Development of XMLs for several components which maintains data for several registers  • Development of data structures, xml parsing using Python.  • Used REST based microservices with REST template based on RESTful APIs and designed, developed the UI for the client websites by using HTML, CSS, jQuery and React.js.  • Usage of advance features like pickle/unpickle in python for sharing the information across the applications.  • Managed and reviewed Hadoop log file and worked in analyzing SQL scripts and designed the solution for the process using PySpark  • Representation of the system in hierarchy form by defining the components, subcomponents using Python and developed set of library functions over the system based on the user needs.  • Worked on Python Open Stack APIs and used NumPy for Numerical analysis  • Written Python Scripts, mappers to run on Hadoop distributed file system (HDFS).  • Rewrite existing Java application in Python module to deliver certain format of data.  • Creating Python based microservices and refactoring/enhancing exiting services.  • Worked for the betterment of existing algorithms in Hadoop using Scala, Spark-SQL.  • Worked on developing internal testing tools which were written in Python. Worked on Libraries like Pandas for data manipulation and analysis.  • Setup automated cron jobs to upload data into database, generate graphs, bar charts, upload these charts to wiki and backup the database.  • Have written queries in Hive to process the data from Hadoop based systems.  • Converted advance JAVA Application to Python, MSQL, MongoDB.  • Development of several Python APIs that works both in Linux and windows and maintaining them using the revision control GIT.  • Used Django framework for application development. Excellent knowledge with distributed storages (HDFS) and distributed processing (MapReduce, Yarn)  • For the manipulation of data from the database various queries using SQL were written and created a database using MYSQL.  • Worked on Jenkins continuous integration tool for deployment of project. Played a key role in a development wide transition from Subversion to Git, which resulted in increase in efficiency for the development community.  • Deployed the project into Heroku using GIT version control system.    Environment: Linux, Python, Django, HTML, XML, JavaScript, AngularJS, Hadoop, JQuery, MySQL, Amazon s3, Jenkins, Perl, Pandas, Eclipse, GitHub Python Developer HMS HOLDINGS CORP - Irving, TX August 2015 to August 2017 Description: Medical claims review is the process used to assure that provider billings are accurate, reasonable and appropriate for services that have actually been provided. The process involves a healthcare provider submitting, and following up on, claims with health insurance companies in order to receive payment for services rendered; such as treatments and investigations.    Responsibilities:  • Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript, Node.JS.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Used JQuery for all client side JavaScript manipulation.  • Worked on MongoDB database concepts such as locking, transactions, indexes, Sharding, replication, schema design.  • Web-services backend development using Python (Django, SQLAlchemy)  • Dealt with development of parsers for handling JSON, XML responses and JAXB binding and worked with JMS (java messaging service) for asynchronous communication.  • Worked extensively with Bootstrap, JavaScript, and JQuery to optimize the user experience.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the JQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Involved in Developing a Restful API'S service using Python Flask framework.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Performed coding in C on Linux Platform.  • Build SQL, NOSQL queries implementing functions, packages, views, triggers, and tables.  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile).  • Developed in Windows and going to deploy it in Linux server.  • Experience with working on Linux server and Created scripts for data modeling and data import and export.  • Created unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  • Using Subversion control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Python/Bash Scripting for automation and monitoring system processes.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Experience with Unit testing/ Test driven Development (TDD), Load Testing.  • Experience with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins.  • Involved in entire lifecycle of the project including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django, C, JQuery, MySQL, Linux, Eclipse, NOSQL, HTML, XHTML, SVN, CSS, AJAX, Bugzilla, JavaScript, SQLAlchemy, Apache Web Server. Python / Django Developer State Bank of India - Pune, Maharashtra July 2014 to July 2015 Description: Retail banking refers to the division of a bank that deals directly with retail customers. Retail banking is the visible face of banking to the general public, with bank branches located in abundance in most major cities. Banks that focus purely on retail clientele are relatively few, and most retail banking is conducted by separate divisions of banks, large and small.    Responsibilities:  • Participated in the complete SDLC process and used PHP to develop website functionality.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL. Built application logic using Python 2.7.  • Used Django APIs for database access.  • Participated in requirement gathering and worked closely with the architect in designing and modelling.  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures on MYSQL.  • Developed shopping cart for Library and integrated web services to access the payment (E-commerce).  • Designed and developed a horizontally scalable APIs using Python Flask.  • Designed Cassandra schema for the APIs.    Environment: Python 2.6/2.7, JavaScript, Django Framework 1.3, CSS, SQL, MySQL, JQuery, Adobe Dreamweaver, Apache web server Java Developer Adaequare Info Pvt Ltd - Hyderabad, Telangana July 2012 to June 2014 Description: The Inventory and purchasing Management Application used to maintain stock and purchasing materials. It includes purchase Order of Materials and assets, Receipts against purchase orders, Issuing Materials to Stores, and Supplier Bills for purchase orders which is receipted, automatic generation of reports like Stock-Ledger reports for the item and Store and Automatic integration to the financial accounting system.    Responsibilities:  • Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website.  • Analysis and understanding of business requirements.  • Effectively participated in weekly client communications with Business Analysts.  • Involved in the architecture team for design and implementation of system.  • Developed application using Spring MVC, JSP, JSTL and AJAX on the presentation layer, the business layer is built using spring and the persistent layer uses Hibernate.  • Developed Custom Tags to represent data in a desired unique table format and to implement paging logic.  • Developed views and controllers for client and manager modules using Spring MVC and Spring Core.  • Business logic is implemented using Spring Core and Hibernate.  • Data Operations are performed using Spring ORM wiring with Hibernate and Implemented Hibernate Template and criteria API for Querying database.  • Developed Web Services using XML messages that use SOAP, Created WSDL and the SOAP envelope.  • Developed Exception handling framework and used log4J for logging.  • Developed and modified database objects as per the requirements.  • Involved in Unit integration, bug fixing, acceptance testing with test cases, Code reviews.    Environment: Java, Spring Framework, JSP, Hibernate, JUnit, UML, XML, CSS, HTML, Oracle 9i, Eclipse, Java Script, Rational Rose, ant. Education Bachelor's Skills AJAX (5 years), CSS (5 years), ECLIPSE (4 years), JAVA (4 years), TESTING (4 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Programming Languages Python, Java, C/C++, SQL, PL/SQL  Web Technologies HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, XML, AngularJS, DOM and SAX.  Databases Deployment tools Oracle, MySQL, SQL, MongoDB Heroku, Jenkins  Python Libraries UnitTest, JSON, CSV, XML, XLS  Frameworks Django, OpenCAFE  Testing Tools Bugzilla, JIRA  Version Control Tools SVN, Git, Github  IDE's Build Tools NetBeans, Eclipse, PyCharm, PyScripter, PyStudio Apache Maven, Apache Ant.  Operating Systems Windows, Ubuntu, Red hat Linux 4.x/5.x/6.x.