Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Ellie Mae Pleasanton, CA • Over 6 years of experience in the development of applications/tools using Python.  • Having good experience in several python packages like NumPy, SciPy, PyTables.  • Developing Web Applications using html, JavaScript.  • Experience in Object Oriented Concepts with C, Java, and Python.  • Involved in Design, Development, Testing, Automation, Enhancement and Maintenance of Applications and Tools.  • Wrapper developed in Python for instantiating multi-threaded application and running with other applications.  • Debugging the failure issues by capturing the array and register dumps using Python scripts, traces and performing several experiments by interacting with the design team.  • Applied MVT architecture in the development of the web applications with the help of Django framework.  • Involved in the development of the applications using Python 3.3, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JSON and JQuery. Developed Views and Templates with Django view controller and template language to create an easily accessible website interface for users.  • Representation of the system in hierarchy form by defining the components, subcomponents using Python and developed set of library functions over the system based on the user needs.  • Expert in developing test plans, test cases, test specifications and test coverage. Good Experience in C/C++ development of multi-threaded applications in a Linux Environment.  • Experience in using Pandas python libraries during development lifecycle. Expertise in performing Data Analysis and Data Visualizations using R, Python and Tableau.  • Expert in writing Python modules to extract/load asset data from the MySQL source database. Wrote and executed various MySQL database queries from Python-MySQL connector and MySQL database package.  • Created PyUnit test cases for unit testing. Development of test framework using the Python. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Ellie Mae - Pleasanton, CA October 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  • Developed Views and Templates with Django view controller and template language to create an easily accessible website interface for users.  • Developed dynamic web pages using Python Django frameworks and Used Django APIs for database access.  • Developed Python Django forms to record and access data of online users.  • Applied MVT architecture in the development of the web applications with the help of Django framework.  • Experienced in developing Python scripts to update the content in database and manipulate files.  • Created Indexed Views, complex Stored Procedures, effective functions, and appropriate Triggers to facilitate efficient data manipulation and data consistency.  • Expert in utilizing Python libraries wxPython, NumPy, Pandas, Twisted and Matplotlib.  • Involved in the development of the applications using Python 3.3, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JSON and JQuery.  • Knowledge in reviewing Python code for running the troubleshooting test-cases and bug issues.  • Strong knowledge several python packages like NumPy, Beautiful Soup, SQLAlchemy, PyTables etc.  • Experienced python packages like cx_oracle, pyodbc and MySQL dB for working with Oracle, SQL Server and MySQLdb.  • Used Test driven approach for developing the application and Implemented the unit tests using Python Unit test framework.  • Experience in handling database issues and connections with SQL and NoSQL databases like MongoDB (2.6, 2.4)  • Excellent experience with Python development under Linux OS (Ubuntu)  Environment: Python, Django, Pandas, HTML5, wxPython, NumPy, Pandas, Twisted, Matplotlib, CSS3, AJAX, JSON, XML, jQuery, CSV, NumPy, Beautiful Soup, SQLAlchemy, PyTables, sqlite3, Oracle, SQL Server and MySQL db, MongoDB (2.6, 2.4), Excel, MS Office, NoSQL, Linux, Unix and Windows NT/2000/XP/2003 server, Ubuntu. Python Developer Move Inc - San Diego, CA December 2015 to September 2016 Responsibilities:  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django including Tastypie Web Framework using GitHub.  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation.  • Use the Model View controller (MVC) framework to build modular and maintainable applications.  • Good Knowledge of Python and Python Web Framework Django.  • Experience in writing API's/ and Web Services in PHP and in Python.  • Created test cases during two-week sprints using agile methodology.  • Designed data visualization to present current impact and growth.  • Experienced in developing internal auxiliary web apps using Python Flask framework with CSS / HTML framework.  • Coding in Python utilizing the Web2py framework with MVC methodology.  • Developed and tested various dashboard features using CSS, JavaScript, Django, and Bootstrap.  • Implemented client-side logic using jQuery and JavaScript.  • Extracted the data sources and loaded to generate CSV data files with Python programming and SQL queries.  • Expertise in performing Data Analysis and Data Visualizations using R, Python and Tableau.  • Developed server based web traffic statistical analysis tool using Flask, Pandas.  • Created a work flow using technologies such as GIT/SSH to develop multi -programmer.  Environment: Python, Django, Java script, HTML, XML, CSS, Bootstrap, jQuery, CSV, R, Tableau, Flask, pandas, GitHub, Oracle, Django, sqlite3, Excel, SQL Server 2012, MS Office, SQL, MySQL, Windows. Jr. Python Django Developer Syntel - Hyderabad, Telangana January 2014 to November 2015 Responsibilities:  • Used MySQL as backend database and MySQL of python as database connector to interact with MySQL server.  • Developed Python/Django application for Analytics aggregation and reporting. Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django module to deliver certain format of data.  • Daily Task Distribution within the team and keeping track of the progress using Scrum Board.  • Developed scripts in Python and Excel VBA to automate the data analysis, generating statistics isolating trends in memory failures.  • Maintained the versions using GIT and sending the release notes for each release.  • Handled potential points of failure through error handling and communication of failure.  • Implemented code in Python to retrieve and manipulate data.  • Developed Wrapper in Python for instantiating multi-threaded application.  • Managed datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL, queried MYSQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector MySQLdb package to retrieve information.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  • Expertise in performing Applied Statistics, Exploratory Data Analysis and Data Visualization using tools like ggplot2, Tableau.  • Development experience in python, Django and flask, have used MySQL, SQLAlchemy and sqlite3.  • Experience in Matplotlib and using scrapy and calculus in python.  • Provided technical assistance for development and execution of servers and client software applications.  • Worked with technical teams for performance of necessary upgrades to client and server software.  Environment: MySQL, Python, Django, GitHub, flask, HTML, Oracle, Django, SQLAlchemy, sqlite3, CSS, Excel, SQL Server, HTML, MS Office, SQL, MySQL, Linux, Windows server. Software Developer DNC Technologies - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2011 to December 2013 Responsibilities:  • Used the Django Framework to develop the application.  • Implemented web applications in Flask and spring frameworks following MVC architecture.  • Used Python to place data into JSON files for testing Django Websites.  • Updated and manipulated content and files by using python scripts.  • Implemented web applications in Flask and spring frameworks following MVC architecture.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Worked on Python Open stack API's.  • Used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation  • Participated in requirement gathering and analysis phase of the project in documenting the business requirements, conducting workshops/meetings with various business users.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Wrote Teradata Macros and used various Teradata analytic function  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Used HTML, CSS, JQuery, JSON and JavaScript for front end applications.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Used Bootstrap as a mechanism to manage and organize the html page layout.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Built various graphs for business decision making using Python Matplotlib library.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Manage, collaborate and coordinate the work of an offshore development team.  • Worked on rebranding the existing web pages to clients according to the type of deployment.  • Worked on updating the existing clip board to have the new features as per the client requirements.  • Used many regular expressions to match the pattern with the existing one.  • Skilled in using collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures on MYSQL.  • Used Maven to validate, compile and deploy the files.  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile).  • Analyzed performance test requirements and developed test plans and have done debugging to understand test objective requirements  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  Environment: Django, Python, HTML, CSS, AWS, Agile, MYSQL, XML, JavaScript. Education Bachelor's Skills CSS (5 years), Django (6 years), MySQL (6 years), Python (6 years), SQL (6 years) Additional Information Technical Competencies:    • Languages: Python, C, Java, SQL, C++  • Frameworks: Django, AngularJS, Rest Framework, JQuery, D3.js, web2py, Flask, and CSS  • Web Tools: Node.js, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, JSON, JQuery, REST API's, Java Script, AJAX, XML, AngularJS  • Databases: MongoDB, MySQL, Oracle, PostgreSQL  • Platforms: Linux, Windows  • Tools & IDE: Matlab, Weka, Eclipse, NetBeans, Pycharm, Spyder, PyCharm, Atom, Eclipse, Jupyter Notebook, Visual Studio Code, and Sublime Text  • Python Libraries: Numpy, Scipy, Matpotlib, Scrapy, Nose, and Pillow  • Version Control: Git (GitHub), SVN, CVS  • Application Servers: Apache Tomcat, Puppet, WebLogic, WebSphere  • Web Services: AWS, Rackspace Cloud, Amazon S3    • Operating Systems: Windows, Red hat Linux, MAC OSX  • Protocols: TCP/IP, HTTP/HTTPS, SOAP, SMTP, REST  • Deployment Tools: Jenkins  • Tracking Tools: Bugzilla and JIRA