Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Bank of America Pleasanton, CA ? Highly motivated, organized, and effective technology professional with over 9 years of proven experience in software design, development, testing, commercialization and deployment.  ? Strong Experience in Python, Django, C++, XML, CSS, HTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  ? Extensive experience of object oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python and C++.  ? Experience with all aspects of technology projects including Business Requirements, Technical Architecture, Design Specification, Development and Deployment.  ? Hands on experience working in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python) Architecture.  ? Good experience in developing web applications and implementing Model View Control (MVC) architecture using server side applications like Django.  ? Experience in Agile development methodology, waterfall and TDD (test driven development).  ? Performed code reviews and implemented best Pythonic programming practices  ? Evangelist for test driven development, Agile Scrum methodologies and other technologies to increase velocity of development.  ? Experience in building Test frameworks.  ? Extensive experience in different testing methodologies including functional, system, regression and Integration testing  ? Self-driven with ability to perform in highly dynamic and fast paced environment with minimal guidance.  ? Experience in developing, implementing, and improving processes by bringing Engineering, Operations, QA, and Product Management together.  ? Possess strong organizational, presentation, management and communication skills.  ? Proven ability to motivate and lead team of Engineers and produce results.  ? Analytical problem-solver, able to quickly identify and troubleshoot technical challenges and maintain complex software systems. Work Experience Python Developer Bank of America - San Francisco, CA May 2016 to Present The project involves development of new functionalities and maintenance to student checking account and resources.  Responsibilities:  ? Built database Model, Views and API's using Python for interactive web based solutions.  ? Placed data into JSON files using Python to test Django websites.  ? Used Python scripts to update the content in database and manipulate files.  ? Developed web based application using Django framework with python concepts.  ? Generated Python Django forms to maintain the record of online users.  ? Involved in Python OOD code for quality, logging, monitoring, and debugging code optimization.  ? Developed tools to automate base tasks using Python, Shell scripting and XML.  ? Created Unit test/ regression test framework for existing and new implementation.  ? Responsible for designing, developing, testing, deploying and maintaining the web application.  ? Designed and developed the UI for the website with HTML, XHTML, CSS, Java Script and AJAX.  ? Involved in debugging the applications monitored on JIRA using agile methodology.  ? Debug and fix bugs of various priorities, thereby reducing team's backlog by 30%.  Environment: Python, Django, MySQL, HTML, CSS, AJAX, Apache, HTTP, XML, JavaScript, GIT. Python Developer JP Morgan Chase Bank - San Francisco, CA October 2014 to April 2016 The project involves building a strategic Technology solution, including an integrated view of the Finance/Risk data and Risk Weighted Assets(RWA) calculation capabilities which facilitate automated regulatory and internal reporting.    Responsibilities:  ? Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the merchant, admin and consumer websites.  ? Involved in developing web applications using Django Framework to implement the model view control architecture.  ? Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  ? Designed and developed web pages using HTML, CSS and Used Java Script to perform validations at Client's side.  ? Designed and Developed web services using XML and JQuery.  ? Involved to write and execute stored procedures and various database operations using MySQL.  ? Involved in deploying the application in Linux and Analyzed logs for fixing UAT/Production defects.  ? Monitored servers responded to alerts and created scripts to automate tasks  ? Used Python to build their pricing, risk management and trade management platform.  ? Developed banking management scripts in python to support the chase website in creating user profiles, transactions for the withdrawals and deposit.  ? Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  Environment: Python, Django, MySQL, SQLite, Linux, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, Apache web Server. Python Developer Best Buy - Boston, MA February 2014 to September 2014 The project was to use Google Analytics, conduct SEO and enhance the existing web portal by re-engineering search, sort, list, shopping cart, cancellation, payment processor and payment gateways.    Responsibilities:  • Developed Python Django Forms, Crispy forms to record data, login, and signup of users  • Used collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  • Designed email marketing campaigns and created responsive web forms that saved data into a database using Python/ Django Framework  • Modified queries, functions, cursors, triggers, and stored procedures for MySQL database to improve performance, while processing data  • Programmed, tested, and implemented a user login, product registration, order placing & tracking, and statistics reporting system  • Generated Python Django forms to record Data of online users.  • Wrote Python routines to log into the websites and fetch data for selected options.  • Used Bootstrap as a mechanism to manage and organize the html pages layout.  • Performed different testing methods like Unit testing, Integration testing, web application testing.  • Extensive code reviewing using GitHub pull requests, improved code quality, and conducted meetings among peers  • Responsible for Parsing XML data using XML parser and Testing, fixing of the bugs and coding modifications  • Worked with team of developers on Python applications for seasonal marketing campaigns.  Environment: Python, Django, Linux, MySQL, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, jQuery, Apache, Git Senior Developer Samsung R & D Institute - Delhi, Delhi October 2007 to December 2013 The project was optimizations and development of new features in Samsung's proprietary graphics middleware and web applications for Smart TV. Also involves implementation of testing framework and tools.    Responsibilities:  ? Designed and Implemented Auto unit test case generator for the graphics library using Python  ? Authored technical documents detailing the design of Auto unit test case generator tool.  ? Developed web Applications for Samsung Smart TV using HTML, CSS, JavaScript.  ? Developed web journal with Django Framework for DTV.  ? Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller to create a user-friendly web-interface.  ? Developed multiple python scripts for automating the complete bi-weekly build system.  ? Performance optimization of web browser on Smart TV.  ? Wrote a C++ language parser in python to extract class and method declarations for generating skeleton test code.  ? Led the design and implementation of Digital TV Graphics Test Framework to enable thorough testing of Samsung proprietary graphics library during development.  ? Developed python scripts to generate custom reports for the Graphics Test Framework.  ? Integration of python generated Test reports with graphics portal using Python on Django Web framework.  ? Implemented and optimized UI controls of Graphics middleware  ? Optimize, maintain and enhance widgets for Digital TV Application requirements.  ? Responsible for the code reviews and code optimization to deliver the code as per the company quality standards.  ? Ensuring effective code and design reviews by establishing guidelines for the team  ? Established Release management within the team.  ? Designed and development of multi-view between Web browser and native UI.  ? Performed quantitative and qualitative tests during work with R&D to find solutions to optimize core functionality performances.  ? Developed complex Graphics applications to showcase the capabilities of Samsung DTV graphics library.  ? Developed applications for new animation features to verify the newly added functionality.  ? Troubleshooting and resolving critical problems in the ongoing projects  ? Turned business needs into technology requirements and systems architecture, prioritized effort across -dispersed software engineering teams  ? Collaborated with team members to identify performance improvements for key components and delivered proposals to management.  Environment: C++, Python, Django, MySQL, Linux, SQLite, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, MS Visio, MS Project, JIRA, Perforce. Education MS in Embedded Systems Manipal Academy of Higher Education (MAHE) - MAHE, PUDUCHERRY, IN B. Tech in Computer Science Punjab Technical University Skills AJAX. (9 years), CSS (9 years), Django (9 years), HTML (9 years), MySQL (9 years) Additional Information Technical Skills  Operating Systems Windows, Linux  Languages C, C++, Python2.x/3.x, Shell Script, tck\tl  Framework Django Web framework  Databases MySQL, Sqlite3, MongoDB  Web Technologies HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, XML, AJAX, Bootstrap.  Code version control tool Perforce, CM Synergy and Change Synergy, Clearcase, ClearQuest, WebCQ, GIT  Web Server Apache  Tools & Framework Visual Studio, Rational Rhapsody, Microsoft Visio, WebStorm, PyCharm