Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - Caliber Home Loans Irving, TX Over 7 years of experience in developing web-based applications, software development and design using Python, Django, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, JQuery and Angular JS and Hadoop/BigData.   • Experience with Django, a high-level Python Web framework and experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python) Architecture.   Good understanding/knowledge of Hadoop Architecture and various components such as HDFS, Job Tracker, TaskTracker, NameNode, DataNode, Secondary Namenode, and Map Reduce concepts.  Experience object oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, Django and Linux and familiar with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web Services(AWS).   Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.   Worked with Hadoop Core Components (HDFS, MapReduce) and Hadoop Ecosystem (Sqoop, Flume, Hive, Pig, Impala, Oozie, HBase).  Extensive experience on modern front-end templating frameworks for JavaScript - Including Bootstrap, JQuery, Angular JS, Node.js, backbone JS, Ext JS, D3 JS etc.   Experience in the design and implementation of Embedded /Software Systems and strong exposure to software development tools like Toad, ClearCase, eclipse, SVN Tortoise, putty etc.   Configured several node (Amazon EC2 spot Instance) Hadoop cluster to transfer the data from Amazon S3 to HDFS and HDFS to AmazonS3 and also to direct input and output to the Hadoop MapReduce framework.  Well aware of SDLC, Waterfall, Test-driven development (TDD) and Agile/Scrum Methodologies.   • Experience in using React.js, Flux, Common JS, Babel+ES6, Web-Pack for SPA development.   Worked on several python packages like Numpy, matPlotLib, Beautiful Soup, Pickle, PySide, Scipy, wxPython, PyTables etc.   Experience of writing SOAP and RESTful web services for a web claims applications and experience of managing API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture and proficient in SQL databases MS SQL, MySQL, Oracle and no-SQL databases MongoDB, Cassandra.   Expertise in Object Oriented technologies using Java, J2EE, Design Patterns, JSP, Servlet, Struts, Spring, Hibernate, JDBC, EJB, JMS, Java Mail, RMI/IIOP, and JAXB, JacksonAPIs.   Good experience of software development in Python (libraries used: Beautiful Soup, NumPY, scipy, matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas data frame, network, urllib2, MySQL dB for database connectivity) and IDEs - sublime text, Spyder, pycharm, Emacs.  Good knowledge of various Design Patterns and UML and strong knowledge in frameworks IronPython, Cpython. Work Experience Sr. Python Developer Caliber Home Loans - Irving, TX March 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Implemented Python alongside using various libraries such as matplotlib for charts and graphs, MySQL dB for database connectivity, Python -twitter, PySide, Pickle, Pandas data frame, network, urllib2.  • Developed an embedded software data driven test automation framework in Linux/ Python. Designed test cases and authored test plans.  • Involved in the migration of a workforce and inventory management application to Angular 2 /Bootstrap.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django including Tastypie Web Framework using Git.  • Designed, developed and tested HTML, CSS, jQuery and React.js that meets accessibility and web browser standards for car dealerships websites.  • Worked on Angular 2 for front-end development and NodeJS for backend development and designed and maintained databases using Python and developed Python based API (RESTful Web service) using Flask, SQL Alchemy and PostgreSQL.  • Created Hive tables to import large data sets from various relational databases using Sqoop and export the analyzed data back for visualization and report generation by the BI team.  • Used Spark API over Cloudera Hadoop YARN to perform analytics on data in Hive.  • Developed JSPs, Servlets and custom tags for creating user interfaces and worked on Spring JMS, MDB for listeners, Message Broker for routing the messages.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  • Used AWS Beanstalk for deploying and scaling web applications and services developed with Java, PHP, Node.js, Python, Ruby, and Docker on familiar servers such as Apache, and IIS.  • Used AWS for application deployment and configuration. Responsible for setting up Python REST API framework using Django.  • Wrote MapReduce jobs to perform operations like copying data on HDFS and defining job flows on EC2 server, load and transform large sets of structured, semi-structured and unstructured data.  • Wrote JSX code in updating the React DOM and also worked with states and props in initializing the child components using this set method.  • Maintained and the development of the trading applications in C/C++ using best practices and design patterns.  • Debugged the application using Firebug to traverse the documents and manipulated the Nodes using DOM and DOM Functions.  • Created Hive External tables and loaded the data in to tables and queried data using HQL that helped market analysts to look for emerging.  • Developed high availability real time Messaging system for financial/Banking transactions and developed associated components in Linux, UNIX, STL, BOOST, XML (XPath and XSLT), Perl, Python scripting.  • Created Hive tables, wrote Hive queries and added Oozie action which will Run automatically to load data into HDFS.  • Performed bootstrapping and modularizing of an application with Angular JS injector.  • Developed multi-threaded standalone app in Python, PHP, C++ to view Circuit parameters and performance.  • Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  • Used Test driven approach for developing the application and Implemented the unit tests using Python Unit test framework.  • Integrated activate catalog to get parts using JMS and developed web Components using JSP, Servlet under J2EE Environment.  • Implemented security features for the APIs and involved in developing HTML and JavaScript for presentation and data validation on the client side with in the forms.  • Designed and Developed the parsers for parsing xmls and jsons using jackson, JAXB and developed the controller Servlet to handle the requests and responses.  • Managed large datasets using Pandas data frames and MySQL and performed dynamic implementation of SQL server work on website using SQL developer tool.  • Worked on AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP- serializable JSON strings.  • Involved in the Complete Software development life cycle (SDLC) to develop the application.  • Developed asynchronous messaging systems using JMS, MDB, and MQ series.  • Managed virtual servers and accessed various features in Open stack infrastructure using Rest API calls, developed in Python  • Built AWS and REDIS server for storing the data and performed defect analysis and Interaction with Business Users during UAT/SIT.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database and wrote programs for performance calculations using NumPy and SQLAlchemy.  • Used Git to resolve and coding the work on Python and port let. Sr. Python Developer Chick-fil-A - Atlanta, GA September 2015 to February 2016 Responsibilities:  • Implemented Python alongside using various libraries such as matplotlib for charts and graphs, MySQL dB for database connectivity, Python -twitter, PySide, Pickle, Pandas data frame, network, urllib2.  • Developed an embedded software data driven test automation framework in Linux/ Python. Designed test cases and authored test plans.  • Involved in the migration of a workforce and inventory management application to Angular 2 /Bootstrap.  • Used the Node.js, Angular.js MVC Frameworks in the development of the web applications. Unit testing with JavaScript and node.js.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django including Tastypie Web Framework using Git.  • Designed, developed and tested HTML, CSS, jQuery and React.js that meets accessibility and web browser standards for car dealerships websites.  • Worked on Angular 2 for front-end development and NodeJS for backend development and designed and maintained databases using Python and developed Python based API (RESTful Web service) using Flask, SQL Alchemy and PostgreSQL.  • Created Hive tables to import large data sets from various relational databases using Sqoop and export the analyzed data back for visualization and report generation by the BI team.  • Used Spark API over Cloudera Hadoop YARN to perform analytics on data in Hive.  • Developed JSPs, Servlets and custom tags for creating user interfaces and worked on Spring JMS, MDB for listeners, Message Broker for routing the messages.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  • Used AWS for application deployment and configuration. Responsible for setting up Python REST API framework using Django.  • Wrote MapReduce jobs to perform operations like copying data on HDFS and defining job flows on EC2 server, load and transform large sets of structured, semi-structured and unstructured data.  • Wrote JSX code in updating the React DOM and also worked with states and props in initializing the child components using this set method.  • Debugged the application using Firebug to traverse the documents and manipulated the Nodes using DOM and DOM Functions.  • Created Hive External tables and loaded the data in to tables and queried data using HQL that helped market analysts to look for emerging.  • Developed high availability real time Messaging system for financial/Banking transactions and developed associated components in Linux, UNIX, STL, BOOST, XML (XPath and XSLT), Perl, Python scripting.  • Created Hive tables, wrote Hive queries and added Oozie action which will Run automatically to load data into HDFS.  • Performed bootstrapping and modularizing of an application with Angular JS injector.  • Developed multi-threaded standalone app in Python, PHP, C++ to view Circuit parameters and performance.  • Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  • Used Test driven approach for developing the application and Implemented the unit tests using Python Unit test framework.  • Integrated activate catalog to get parts using JMS and developed web Components using JSP, Servlet under J2EE Environment.  • Implemented security features for the APIs and involved in developing HTML and JavaScript for presentation and data validation on the client side with in the forms.  • Designed and Developed the parsers for parsing xmls and jsons using jackson, JAXB and developed the controller Servlet to handle the requests and responses.  • Managed large datasets using Pandas data frames and MySQL and performed dynamic implementation of SQL server work on website using SQL developer tool.  • Worked on AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP- serializable JSON strings.  • Involved in the Complete Software development life cycle (SDLC) to develop the application.  • Developed asynchronous messaging systems using JMS, MDB, and MQ series.  • Managed virtual servers and accessed various features in Open stack infrastructure using Rest API calls, developed in Python  Built AWS and REDIS server for storing the data and performed defect analysis and Interaction with Business Users during UAT/SIT.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database and wrote programs for performance calculations using NumPy and SQLAlchemy. Python Developer Hy-Vee - West Des Moines, IA November 2013 to August 2015 Responsibilities:  • Created Python and Bash tools to increase efficiency of retail management application system and operations; data conversion scripts, AMQP/RabbitMQ, REST, JSON, and CRUD scripts for API Integration.  • Used the Node.js, Angular.js and MVC Frameworks in the development of the web applications and developed and implemented the MVC Architectural Pattern using Struts Framework including JSP, Servlets and Action classes.  • Worked on importing data from HDFS to MYSQL database and vice-versa using SQOOP.  • Created a Responsive web application integrating Twitter Bootstrap with React.js and media queries.  • Developed Python based API (RESTful Web Service) to track the events and perform analysis using Django.  • Involved in development using C++, bug fixing and unit testing of the Layout commands.  • Used Custom Node.JS proxy to simulate API responses before client implementation was complete and to proxy.  • Worked on setting up KAFKA for streaming data and monitoring for the KAFKA Cluster.  • Created a Python/Django based web application using Python scripting for data processing, MySQL for the database, and HTML/CSS/JQuery and HighCharts for data visualization of the served pages.  • Developed web-based applications using Python, Django, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Publish and Consume Contract First SOAP web services using spring & Restful Web services using Jersey.  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture  • Worked on JMS components for asynchronous messaging and designed custom Node.js module to, programmatically generate a path for a RESTful endpoint (CRUD) with back end, provided a schema.  • Worked with Node JS and Node Package Manager (NPM) to install the required JavaScript packages like Express, Morgan (Logging Framework) etc.  • Executed various MYSQL database queries from Python using Python -MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Developed single page applications using Angular.js. Used AWS for application deployment and configuration.  • Developed UDF's using Python and also implemented graphs using Python with big data analytics.  • Designed, developed, tested, deployed and maintained the website and used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application and used Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Worked on various environment Python, MYSQL, Apache, CSS, git, DHTML, HTML, Shell Scripts. Web Developer J. C. Penney - Plano, TX July 2011 to October 2013 Responsibilities:    • Created UI using JavaScript and HTML5/CSS. Also involved in the analysis and design of application and developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Implemented business logic using Python/Django and created backend database T-SQL stored procedures and Jasper Reports.  • Developed and maintained, metrics Interface with different departments within the organization.  • Implemented design Patterns like Singleton, Factory, Template and DAO patterns.  • Implemented Spring Beans using IOC and transaction management features to handle the business logic.  • Developed Python Framework using Django to perform scan software unit monitoring.  • Developed remote integration with third party platforms by using RESTful web services.  • Maintaining multiple copies of data in different database servers using MongoDB Replication concept.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MongoDB with complete data integrity.  • Exported/Imported data between different data sources using SQL Server Management Studio and maintained program libraries, users' manuals and technical documentation.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from Python using Python -MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Wrote and reviewed requirements, architecture documents, test plans, design documents, quality analysis and audits.  • Built various graphs for business decision-making use of Python matplotlib library and fetched twitter feeds for certain important keyword using Python-twitter library.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  • Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete and worked with team of developers on Python applications for RISK management.  • Created most important Business Rules which are useful for the scope of project and needs of customers.  • Designed the architecture of the hardware environments and methodology of the code.  • Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all of its commands.  • Refactored existing project to make it more RESTful and thread-safe and added unit tests and improved existing ones.  • Designed RESTful XML web service for handling AJAX requests ad created project designs utilizing MVC architecture components. Skills BOOTSTRAP (6 years), CSS (6 years), DJANGO (6 years), JAVASCRIPT (6 years), MYSQL (6 years) Additional Information Technical Expertise    • Python, Django, Flask, NumPy, SciPy, MatplotLib, PyPlot, SeaBorn, Pandas, PyQt, Tkinter, Boto, Anaconda, , Bootstrap,WxPython JavaScript, Kubernetes, Hadoop, Hive, Pig, Sqoop, HDFS, AWS, Google Cloud, Docker, Golang, Cassandra, Angular.js, Node.js, React.JS, Redis, Backbone.js, D3.js, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap.js, EXT-JS, Ajax, JQuery, Dojo, Java,Spring, Hibernate, JDBC, C, C++, SQLServer, Oracle, MySQL, DB2, JBoss, WebSphere, Tomcat, redux, BEA WebLogic, Eclipse, NetBeans, RSA, MS Visio, Windows , Linux , Unix