Sr Python Developer Sr <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr Python Developer - JP Morgan Chase, Phoenix Over 7+ years of experience IT Industry with proficiency in Design & Development of Python,Java/J2EE, Django, flask project.  - Experienced with full software development life-cycle, architecting scalable platforms, object oriented programming, database design and agile methodologies.  - Experienced in MVW frameworks like Django, Java Script, JQuery.  - Expert knowledge of and experience in Object Oriented Design and Programming concepts.  - Experience object oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, C++ and PHP.  - Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python/PHP) Architecture.  - Advised organizations about big data, a big data strategy, the implementation of big data, which technologies best fit the needs of the organization and even implements the selected big data solution.  - Write MATLAB code to create discretized computer models of sloped levy geometries.  - Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, PHP, C++, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and Jquery.  - Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache.  - Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  - Familiar with JSON based REST Web service.  - Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  - Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  - Experienced in agile and waterfall methodologies with high quality deliverables delivered on-time.  - Experience in utilizing SAS Procedures, Macros, and other SAS application for data extraction, data cleansing, data loading and reporting.  - Maintained detailed documentation and architectural solutions in IT infrastructure and sales systems.  - Very strong full life cycle application development experience.  - Strong knowledge on Dev Express Controls. Procedures, functions, triggers, Cursors, Indexing, importing/exporting data from varied data sources  - Experience with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins.  - Experience with Unit testing/ Test driven Development (TDD), Load Testing.  - Experience in developing ColdFusion Components, custom tags and modified CF Objects.  - Have the ability to understand complex systems and be in command of the details to provide solutions.  - Ability to learn and adapt quickly to the emerging new technologies and paradigms.  - Excellent communication, interpersonal and analytical skills and a highly motivated team player with the ability to work independently.  - Practical experience with working on multiple environments like development, testing, production.  - Hands-on experience in writing and reviewing requirements, architecture documents, test plans, design documents, quality analysis and audits.  - Excellent analytical and problem solving skills and ability to work on own besides being a valuable and contributing team player. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr Python Developer JP Morgan Chase, Phoenix - Phoenix, AZ May 2015 to Present AZ.  JPMorgan Chase &Co. is an American multinational banking and financial services holding company headquartered in New York City. It is the largest bank in the United States, and the world's sixth largest bank by total assets, with total assets of US$2.35 trillion.  Sr Python Developer May 2015 to Present  Responsibilities:  • Participate in requirement gathering and analysis phase of the project in documenting the business requirements by conducting workshops/meetings with various business users.  • Worked with team of developers on Python applications for RISK management.  • Developed Python/Djangoapplication for Google Analytics aggregation and reporting.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Worked on Python Open stack API's.  • Used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation.  • I Have used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular form for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval tohandle time series data and do data manipulation.  • Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Worked very closely with designer, tightly integrating Flash into the CMS with the use of Flashvars stored in the Django models. Also created XML with Django to be used by the Flash.  • Used HTML, CSS, JQuery, JSON and Javascript for front end applications.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Also used Bootstrap as a mechanism to manage and organize the html page layout.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQLdb package.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures on MYSQL.  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile).  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.4, MySQL, HTML, HTML5, CSS, XML, MySQL, MS SQL Server, JavaScript Linux, Shell Scripting, AJAX.  TripAdvisor, Boston, MA    TripAdvisor, Inc. is an American travel website company providing reviews of travel-related content. It also includes interactive travel forums. Django Developer Python December 2012 to April 2015 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Participated in the complete SDLC process.  • Implemented Business logic using Python 2.7.  • Used Django framework for database layer development.  • Developed GUI using CSS, HTML, JavaScript, Bootstrap and JQuery.  • Responsible for setting up Python REST API framework using DJANGO.  • Created database using MySQL, wrote several SQL queries to extract data from database.  • Wrote scripts in Python for automation of testing jobs.  • Deployment and Build on various environments including Linux and UNIX.  • Installed and maintained web servers Tomcat and Apache HTTP Web servers in RedHat Linux.  • Tools like LoadRunner, SoapUI, VUGEN to perform automation and manual testing of application.  • Used web services for testing and integration.  • Implemented and used custom built query script to store, index and read large sets of Object data (like MongoDb)  • Development of Python APIs to dump the array structures in the Processor at the failure point for debugging.  • Implemented monitoring and established best practices around using elastic search.  • Effectively communicated with the external vendors to resolve queries.  • Used GIT for the version control.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django, C++, JSON, XML, VUGEN, SoapUI, HTML, JavaScript, CSS, Bootstrap, JQuery, Restful API, Shell Scripting, PL/SQL, MySQL, ODBC, GIT, Tomcat, MongoDb, Apache HTTP Web servers, RedHat Linux and Unix. Sr Python Developer TD Ameritade - Jersey City, NJ January 2011 to November 2012 Jersey City, New Jersey.  TD Ameritrade is an American online broker based in Omaha, Nebraska. TD Ameritrade Holding Corporation is the owner of TD Ameritrade Inc. Services offered include common and preferred stocks, futures, ETFs, option trades, mutual funds, fixed income, margin lending, and cash management services.    Sr Python Developer January 2011 to November 2012  Responsibilities:  • Worked with team of developers on Python applications for RISK management.  • Designed the database schema for the content management system.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Wrote Python routines to log into the websites and fetch data for selected options.  • Performed testing using Django'sTest Module.  • Worked on middle tier and persistence layer. Created service and model layer classes and Value objects/POJO to hold values between java classes and database fields.  • Exported/Imported data between different data sources using SQL Server Management Studio.  Maintained program libraries, users' manuals and technical documentation.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Successfully migrated all the data to the database while the site was in production.  • Implemented the validation, error handling, and caching framework with Oracle Coherence cache.  • Worked on scripts for setting up the discovery client with attribute data. Worked on scripts (granite reference data scripts) for setting up adapter attributes in granite system.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.4, HTML5, CSS, XML, MySQL, JavaScript, Backbone JS, JQuery. Python Developer Hitachi IT Solutions Pvt Ltd - Bangalore, Karnataka June 2009 to December 2010 Responsibilities:  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller to create a user-friendly web-interface.  • Utilize PyUnit, the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications.  • Used the Django framework to develop the application.  • Build all database mapping classes using Django models.  • Implemented the presentation layer with HTML, DHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from Sqlite to MySQL with complete data integrity.  • Developed multi-threaded standalone app in Python, C++ to view Circuit parameters and performance.  • Worked on UI using HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Worked with JSON based web services like REST and Amazon.  • Created User Controls and simple animations using JavaScript and Python.  • Generated Python Django forms to record Data of online users.  • Wrote Python routines to log into the websites and fetch data for selected options.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with API's, web services using JSON.  • Using subversion control tool to coordinate team development.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.    Environment: Python, Django 1.4, PyUnit, Java, MySQL, Linux, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, REST, JSON, JavaScript, SVN, Apache Web Server and Windows.