Sr. Python developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">developer</span> Sr. Python developer - Deutsche bank - NJ New Jersey Wildlife and Game Refuge, NJ • Having 7 years of experience as a Web/Application Developer with deep understanding of technology trends with expertise in core of complex technologies. Solid experience in Analysis, Design and Development, Testing, Implementation, production support and maintenance of various Web Applications using Python, Django.  • Extensive experience in Requirement Analysis, Application Design & Development and profound knowledge on SDLC using agile and V-model.  • Experienced in working with various Python IDE's using PyCharm, PY Scripter, Spyder, PY Studio and PY Dev.  • Experienced in developing Web-based Applications using Python, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, Angular JS and jQuery and experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language having Good knowledge of Web Services with protocols SOAP, REST.  • Experienced in using third party tools like Telerik, DevExpress and kendo Controls and experienced with containerizing applications using Docker and Vagrant.  • Skilled experience in Python with using new tools and technical developments (Libraries Used: libraries- Beautiful Soup, Jasy, NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib, Pickle, PY Side, Pandas data frame, network X, urllib2, PY chart, High charts) to drive improvements throughout entire SDLC.  • Involved in Unit testing, Integration testing, User-Acceptance testing, and Functional testing.  • Experienced in web applications development using Django/ Python, Flask/ Python, and Node.js, Angular.js, DOJO, jQuery while using HTML/CSS/JS for server-side rendered applications.  • Experienced in developing API services in Python/Tornado, NodeJS while leveraging AMQP and RabbitMQ for distributed architectures.  • Created Custom workflows, custom screens and custom fields on Jira  • Created users on Active Directory, synched the users on Jira and assigned groups and spaces and Created events, email notification schemes and assigned project roles on Jira.  • Worked on confluence- Assigned user personal space and provided- assistance in using Confluence.  • Expertise in developing web-based applications using libraries and frameworks like Angular JS, Bootstrap, jQuery, Knockout.js, Node Js, Backbone.js, React JS, D3 JS and Require JS.  • Having experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Having working Knowledge of Amazon AWS S3 and also Worked extensively on Big Data analytical models developed in Python.  • Extensive use of Object-Oriented design methodology and Agile in software development.  • Extensive experience in Building web applications using Kendo UI widgets, jQuery, Angular JS and Experienced object-oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, C++ and PHP.  • Experienced in NoSQL technologies like MongoDB, CouchDB Cassandra, Redis and relational databases like Oracle, SQLite, Post SQL and MySQL databases.  • Experienced on Web development using HTML4/5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Angular JS, AJAX, XML and JSON by following W3C standards.  • Proficient in developing multi-threaded web services using Cherry PY &bottle PY framework.  • Leveraging queuing architectures with RabbitMQ for scalability, performance and building.  • Knowledge in working with continuous deployment using Heroku and Jenkins.  • Knowledge on Cloud innovations including Infrastructure as a Service, Platform as a Service, and Software as a Service supplier (IaaS, PaaS, and SaaS).  • Proficient in writing unit testing code using Unit Test/PY Test and integrating the test code with the build process.  • Worked on Python Testing frameworks like zope, PY test, nose and Robot framework and Well versed with Agile with SCRUM, Waterfall Model and Test-driven development methodologies.  • Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache and Experienced in working with different operating systems like LINUX, UNIX and WINDOWS.  • Developed web applications and RESTful web services and APIs using Python Flask, Django and PHP. Work Experience Sr. Python developer Deutsche bank - NJ October 2017 to Present • Used Python/Django MVC framework to design and develop the application.  • Performed Unit testing, Integration Testing and generating of test cases for web applications using Junit and Python Unit test framework Jenkins in the builds triggered by each push to GIT.  • Creating Python scripts to automate daily networking tasks (Ex. auto Config generation, retrieving information from network devices, parsing data, etc.) - including a custom FortiGate firewall Config generator (which included multi-threaded functionality to generate Configs for multiple firewalls at once).  • Working as an application developer experienced with controllers, views and models in Django and designed front end and backend of the application using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Develop consumer-based features and applications using Python and Django in test driven Development and pair-based programming.  • Created Terraform scripts for EC2 instances, Elastic Load balancers and S3 buckets. Implemented Terraform to manage the AWS infrastructure and managed servers using configuration management tools like Chef and Ansible.  • Used Amazon EC2 command line interface along with Bash/ Python to automate repetitive work and Wrote ANSIBLE Playbooks with Python, SSH as the Wrapper to Manage Configurations of AWS Nodes and Test Playbooks on AWS instances using Python. Run Ansible Scripts to provision Dev servers.  • Worked on frontend frameworks like CSS Bootstrap for development of Web application and worked in MySQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization and denormalization.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Setup JIRA "Timesheet Report" plug-in, to help users for time-tracking on their dashboards using a JQL or by configuring manually.  • Worked with Python OO Design code for manufacturing quality, monitoring, logging, and debugging code optimization and Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Used Python based GUI components for the front-end functionality such as selection criteria. Connected continuous integration system with GIT version control repository and continually build as the check-in's come from the developer.  • Worked with View Sets in Django-REST framework for providing web services and consumed web services performing CRUD operations.  • Wrote ANSIBLE Playbooks with Python, SSH as the Wrapper to Manage Configurations of AWS Nodes and Test Playbooks on AWS instances using Python. Run Ansible Scripts to provision Dev servers and Used Flask framework for application development.  • Designed and implemented a dedicated MYSQL database server to drive the web apps and report on daily progress.  • Developed python Script for moving files from drop box to Amazon server and Consumed external APIs and wrote RESTful API using Django REST Framework.  • Developed views and templates with python and Django view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly Website interface.  • Developed internal project in Flask to generate report from google analytics on daily, monthly and weekly basis.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Used Python Library Beautiful Soup for Web Scraping to extract data for building graphs Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all its commands. Python Developer SIEMENS - Tarrytown, NY May 2016 to October 2017 • Designed and developed the User Interface for the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS, JavaScript and JSON.  • Successfully migrated the database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data Integrity.  • Developed merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database and Used Django Database APIs to access database objects.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database and Handled all the client-side validation using JavaScript.  • Expertise in writing Constraints, Indexes, Views, Stored Procedures, Cursors, Triggers and User Defined Function.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Embedded AJAX in UI to update small portions of the web page avoiding the need to reload the entire page and Implemented data analysis with various analytical tools such as Python/SQL, Pandas, NumPy,  Matplotlib, Stats models and Anaconda.  • Used jQuery for all client-side data manipulation and Worked on data queries to obtain lists of references from online databases for analysis.  • Used Perl in web automation and in developing web chat box for the customers.  • Used Test driven approach for developing the application and Implemented the unit tests using Python Unit test framework.  • Worked on JQL (Jira Query Language) filters Customizing dashboards and reports and searches using JQL (JIRA Query Language)  • Administer Jenkins Continuous integration server and manage integrations with Bitbucket repository.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Maintenance and continues development of the applications in PL/SQL procedures, ETL modules and shell scripting using best practices.  • Implemented of Automation framework, database testing using Auto-Easy and Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Implemented various Spark Actions and Transformations by creating RDD's in HDFS.  • Developed Spark scripts by using Scala IDE's as per the business requirement and Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Implemented task object to interface with data feed framework and invoke database message service setup and update functionality.  • Cleaned data and processed third party spending data into maneuverable deliverables within specific formats with Excel macros and python libraries.  • Supporting the data warehousing application to make sure the jobs are run as scheduled and the SLAs are met.  • Maintaining the application for daily operations and scaling according to Business requirements.  • Involved in the Complete Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) to develop the application.  • Followed AGILE development methodology to develop the application. Python Developer McKesson - San Francisco, CA July 2014 to May 2016 • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators, and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Responsible for setting up Python REST API framework using Django.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Developed web applications in Django Framework model view control (MVC) architecture.  • Used Python to write data into JSON files for testing Django Websites. Created scripts for data modelling and data import and export.  • Used JQuery and Ajax calls for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in-order to build an interactive web-based solution.  • Thorough knowledge in various front-end tools like HTML, CSS, JavaScript, XML, JQuery, Angular.js, and AJAX. Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  • Used object-relational mapper (ORM) to automate the transfer of data stored in relational databases tables into objects.  • Containerized and Deployed the ETL and REST services on AWS ECS through the CI/CD Jenkins pipe and Involved in the error checking and testing of the ETL procedures and programs of Informatica session log.  • Designed/wrote the tech specs (Source-Target mappings) for the ETL mappings along with the Unit Test scripts and used Python based GUI components for the front-end functionality such as selection criteria and created test harness to enable comprehensive testing utilizing Python.  • Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) for improved efficiency of storage and fast access.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Created Data tables utilizing PY Qt to display customer and policy information and add, delete, update customer records and used PY Query for selecting DOM elements when parsing HTML.  • Created Business Logic using Python to create Planning and Tracking functions and Created UI Screens for initiation and validation.  • Created JIRA projects, templates, workflows, screens, fields and other administrative activities.  • Prepared projects, dashboards, reports and questions for all JIRA related services and Managed build results in Jenkins and deployed using workflows.  • Configuration Management and source code repository management using tools like GIT, Subversion (SVN), Clear Case JIRA and CI tools like Jenkins.  • Worked on UI using HTML5, CSS3 and Java Scripts and Developed multi-threaded standalone app in Python.  • Performed data extraction and manipulation over large relational datasets using SQL, Python, and other analytical tools.  • Used Python libraries and SQL queries/subqueries to create several datasets which produced statistics, tables, figures, charts and graphs.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks and Working in team of Architects and Developers to build and deploy Python Flask Peewee Linux AWS.  • Involved in writing stored procedures using MySQL and Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met. Web developer Citi group - New York, NY July 2012 to July 2014 • Implemented responsive web pages using HTML5/CSS3, Bootstrap & XML/JSON REST web.  • Analysis of requirements and implement different functions according to design.  • Django and Flask frameworks. Moreover, I have good knowledge in REST APIs, JSON, PostgreSQL, MySQL, developed front-end code with Ajax call in AngularJS and jQuery to retrieve data as JSON Object from controllers in back-end RESTful Server, then display the well-organized result in web pages by writing AngularJS controller, directives, services, and route providers. Also used Angular.js filter to make the data searchable and sortable.  • Supported the bank website in creating user profiles, we can also do the simple banking transactions for the with drawls, deposit and transactions is accompanied by password check by securing.  • Deployed DevOps using Puppet, Dashboard, and Puppet DB for configuration management to existing infrastructure.  • Involved in different layers such as Front and Back end as well as developing Web Applications with W3C, XHTML, HTML5, PHP, CSS3 standards and using Python, Django.  • Worked on Payment Processing which involves monitoring payments and provide required solutions and was involved in the complete software life cycle (SDLC) to develop the web application.  • Coding application using Python, Django in End-to-End Web application development using MVC architecture while front-end is built on CSS3 and HTML5.  • Used Test Driven Approach for developing the application and implemented the unit tests using Python Unit Test framework called PY Unit.  • Designed Database Model for the entire application Creating tables, Views and Stored procedures and implementation of client-side validations using jQuery, Angular JS and ASP.NET MVC Validation implemented at Controller level.  • Designed and developed various abstract classes, interfaces, classes to construct the business logic using C# .NET and develop consumer-based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML, Behavior Drive Development (BDD) and pair-based programming.  • Performed Unit testing, Integration Testing, GUI and web application testing using Spec and implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Worked on advanced CSS concepts and building table-free layout and worked on frontend frameworks like CSS Bootstrap for development of Web applications.  • Wrote SQL Queries and implementing stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, Cursors, triggers and created Database Schema for MySQL Database and involved in designing ER-Diagrams using Microsoft Visio.  • Worked on Restful API's to access the third-party data for the internal analysis and statistical representation of that data and worked on Pandas to import the data, Sort and plot the statistical data using histograms.  • Worked on Python Scripts to create Excel and CSV files for documenting the Statistical Reports and used Pandas for Statistical Analysis in the application and NumPy for the advance math functionalities.  • Used JavaScript for Dynamic Page Functionality, popup screens and the user entry validations. Education Bachelor's