Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer Apex, NC ? 6 years of experience in IT Industry with proficiency in Design as a Web/Application Developer and coding with analytical programming using Python, Django.  ? Experience of software development with Python and various libraries of Python, python-twitter, Pandas, Dataframe, MySQLdb for database connectivity), Regular expression, File IO etc.  ? Experience object oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, Django and Linux.  ? Excellent experience with Python development under Linux OS (Debian/RedHat/AIX)  ? Worked with various Python packages using pip install- sphinx, reportlab, xlwt, xlrd, virtualenv, lxml, etc.  ? Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python/Django, PHP, HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript, Angular.js and JQuery. Proficient in Front end development experience using Node.JS, JSON and XML.  ? Used Python Pandas Module work with CSV and table data for various data manipulation and retrieval applications.  ? Excellent Experience in working with Databases such as MySQL, MongoDB, Cassandra, Oracle 10g, MS SQL Server.  ? Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors and Functions.  ? Excellent experience in designing and maintaining complex SQL.  ? Good Knowledge of using IDE Tools like Eclipse, NetBeans, Android Studio, Visual Studio, IDLE.  ? Deployed Django web application in Apache webserver and cloud web deployment.  ? Working knowledge in multi-tiered distributed environment, OOAD concepts, Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC).  ? Excellent experience in design, development building test cases for unit testing and integration testing.  ? Vast experience in providing production support for various deployed applications.  ? Experience in working on different operating systems-windows, iOS, Linux also strong development experience on Linux based operating systems such as Ubuntu, Red Hat and CentOS.  ? Solution driven programming skills with excellent at solving complex problems, with experience in working with a team or as an individual, Adheres to deadlines for simple and complex assignments.  ? Having experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Apex Tools Group - Apex, NC April 2016 to Present Apex Tool Group (ATG) is one of the largest manufacturers of professional hand and power tools in the world, serving the industrial, vehicle service and assembly, aerospace, electronics, construction and serious DIY markets. Worked on Django and HTML for developing a User Interface along with css and implemented a business logic using python and MySQL.    Responsibilities:  ? Design and development of user interfaces and client displays using Java Script, JSP, CSS and troubleshoot various issues in Python code and fix them with code enhancements- code used various python libraries such as PyJamas and Jython.  ? Converted Visual Basic Application to Python, MySQL also used HTML/CSS and JavaScript for UI development.  ? Created data access using SQL and PL/SQL stored procedures.  ? Worked extensively on Multithreading and Concurrency for implementing Batch and Python.  ? Used HTML, CSS 5, Bootstrap, font awesome, JSON and JavaScript for front end applications.  ? Used Linux profiler Valgrind for optimization of code.  ? Worked on validating the code and developed Sql queries.  ? Implemented the presentation layer with HTML, DHTML, Ajax, CSS and JavaScript.  ? Developed in Windows and going to deploy it in Linux server.  ? Implementing the existing Spring MVC based application to work with both vSphere and Openstack simultaneously.  ? Worked on data exchange from website using XML, JAVA and Web Services.  ? Used python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  ? Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users Python Developer Citigroup Inc - Jersey City, NJ August 2015 to March 2016 Citi, the leading global bank, has approximately 200 million customer accounts and does business in more than 160 countries and jurisdictions. Citi provides consumers, corporations, governments and institutions with a broad range of financial products and services, including consumer banking and credit, corporate and investment banking, securities brokerage, transaction services, and wealth management. The project deals with working on building a user interface and developing a database using MySQL and python. And Integrating python and Database using python pandas.    Responsibilities:  • Used Django framework for application development. And build all database mapping classes using Django models and MongoDB.  • Developed user interface using CSS, HTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Assisted in reduction of cost and optimization of supplier selection for the CRM applications.  • Ensured high quality data collection and maintaining the integrity of the data.  • Cleaned data and processed third party spending data into maneuverable deliverables within specific format with Excel macros and python libraries such as NumPy, SQLAlchemy and matplotlib.  • Was involved in environment, code installation as well as the Validation.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code  • This project also used other technologies like JQuery for JavaScript manipulations, bootstrap for the front-end HTML layout.  • Information extraction was done by using pandas.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Followed Agile development methodology to develop the application.  • Developed, tested and debugged software tools utilized by clients and internal customers.  • Coded test programs and evaluated existing engineering processes.  • Designed and configured database and backend applications and programs.  • Collaborated with internal teams to convert end user feedback into meaningful and improved solutions. Python Developer LUPIN LTD June 2013 to July 2015 Lupin Limited is a transnational Pharmaceutical company. And the company was created with a vision to fight life-threatening infectious diseases and to manufacture drugs of the highest social priority.    Responsibilities:  ? Designed and developed the UI of the website using Python, Django, HTML, Node JS, XHTML, Bootstrap and CSS.  ? Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework on MySQL  ? Designed and developed Data management system using MySQL.  ? Built Application logic using Python 3.4, used MySQL server for the database and developed stored procedures.  ? Used Django APIs for database access and Parsed XML file using Python to extract data from database  ? Used Python to extract weekly availability information from XML files using underscore JS.  ? Participated in monitoring operational and transactional activities.  ? Recording of Scripts (Web, Web Services HTML) using Soap UI and script validation through correlations, parameterizations and other methods. Scripting- web and web services.  ? Worked with PYTHON, MYSQL, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap and XHTML to build a fully functional user website.  ? Performed Flow Control, response to Front-End Request using PYTHON/MYSQL/AJAX.  ? Worked on data prepositioning and batch data with python. Build all database mapping classes using Django models.  ? Strong Socket programming experience in Python. Implemented complex networking operations like race route, SMTP mail server and web server. Used PHP language on lamp server to develop page.  ? Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures, trigger and function on MYSQL.  ? Designed and developed a horizontally scalable APIs using Python Flask.  ? Implemented business logic in Python to prevent, detect and claim the duplicate payments.  ? Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  ? Developed shopping cart for Library and integrated web services to access the payment.  ? Used PHP language on lamp server to develop page. Web Developer Teleparadigm Networks August 2010 to April 2013 Teleparadigm Networks delivers software and IT services to clientele across the globe under service models that are unparalleled in the industry. They domain expertise has been acquired through close coupling with early stage and more mature start-ups who are innovating in mobile applications including iPhone and Android, healthcare systems integration, end-to-end Web 2.0 applications and e-Learning systems.  • Designed and developed the HTML front end screens and validated forms using JavaScript.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, Node JS, XHTML, Bootstrap and CSS.  • Used frames and CSS (cascading style sheets) to give a better view to the web pages.  • Utilized Servlets to handle various requests from the client browser and send responses.  • Wrote server side programs by using Servlets and JSP  • Implemented MVC architecture.  • Developed SQL queries with JDBC API to create, retrieve and update data  • Developed and prepared test cases for unit testing with Junit.  • Deployed this web application on apache tomcat server.  • Developed, tested and debugged software tools utilized by clients and internal customers. Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Languages: Python, Java, C, Embedded SQL.  Frameworks: Django, AngularJS, Spring/Hibernate.  Scripting Languages: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, J-Query, Angular JS, Bootstrap.  Databases: MS SQL Server 2000/2005/2008, MS-Access, MY SQL, Oracle, SQLite, PL/SQL.  User Interfaces: HTML, HTML5, DHTML, CSS, XML, AJAX, Web Services, Angular JS.  Operating Systems: Linux, Windows VISTA/XP/2000/NT/98/95, Windows Server 2003, HP-UX, AIX.  Tools & IDE: PowerShell, Jenkins, Eclipse Pydev, Wing 3.1, Django South, Pytest, MySQL workbench, Sublime, Eclipse, NetBeans.