Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Red Brick Health Minneapolis, MN, MN • Over 5+ Years of experience in Analysis, Design, Development and Implementation of various web, stand-alone, client-server applications using Python and Django.  • Good experience in developing web applications implementing MVT/MVC architecture using Django, Flask frameworks.  • Working Experience with Django Authentication modules with custom modifications as needed.  • Experienced in object-oriented programming concepts and using REST API's and JSON in Python.  • Good experience in Using Python packages like NumPy, Pandas, PyTables, SQL Alchemy and SciPy.  • Good Knowledge of web services using SOAP and REST protocols.  • Experience in developing application using AWS (Amazon Web Services).  • Hands on experience with various Python Integrated Developments Environment like IDE, PyCharm, Eclipse and Sublime Text.  • Good experience with Python frameworks like Flask and WebApp2.  • Have Experience in List Comprehensions and Python inbuilt functions such as Map, Filter and Lambda.  • Hold experience in using Git and SVN.  • Proficient in Front end development experience using Python 3.6/2.7, Django 1.7/1.8, HTML, XML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, JQuery, JSON and Angular.js.  • Have strong understanding of Python multi-threading, multi-processing and their limitations.  • Working Experience in UNIX and Linux shell environments using command line utilities.  • Having experience with Agile with SCRUM, Waterfall Model and Test driven development methodologies.  • Experienced in NoSQL technologies like MongoDB, and relational databases like SQLite, PostgreSQL and MySQL databases.  • Good knowledge in working with application server - Apache Server, Tomcat, Nginx, WebLogic and WebSphere.  • Proficient in writing unit testing code using Unit Test/PyTest and integrating the test code with the build process.  • Good documentation skills with the ability to meet deadlines and has the ability to work in a cross functional environment.  • Experienced with full software development life cycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing, Implementation and support.  • Excellent communication, Teamwork, inter-personnel and presentation skills, fast learner and organized self-starter. Work Experience Python Developer Red Brick Health - Minneapolis, MN February 2018 to Present Responsibilities: • Involved in various phases of the project like Analysis, Design, Development, and Testing.  • Develop consumer-based features and applications using Python, Django, Pyramid, Flask, Web2 HTML and other web technologies.  • Wrote with object-oriented Python, Flask, SQL, Beautiful Soup, httplib2, Jinja2, HTML/CSS, Bootstrap, JQuery, Linux, Sublime Text and GIT.  • Designed and developed Use-Cases, Classes and Object Diagrams using UML Rational Rose for Object Oriented Design techniques.  • Designed front end and backend of the application using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Develop consumer-based features and applications using Python and Django in test driven Development and pair-based programming.  • Worked with View Sets in Django-REST framework for providing web services and consumed web services performing CRUD operations.  • Consumed external APIs and wrote RESTful API using Django REST Framework and Angular.js.  • Developed Python Script for moving files from drop box to Amazon server (AWS).  • Developed internal project in Flask to generate report from google analytics on daily, monthly and weekly basis.  • With using of Python OS module on UNIX environment, made job cloning and forking.  • Involved in working with Web-services backend development using Python (CherryPy, Django, and SQLAlchemy).  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Involved in development of Web Services using and REST for sending and getting data from the external interface in XML and JSON format.  • Worked on front end frame works like CSS, Bootstrap for development of Web application.  • Design and configure database, back end applications and programs. Managed large datasets using Pandas data frames and SQL.  • Used PyUnit, the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications.  • Created Data tables utilizing PyQt to display customer and policy information and add, delete, update customer records.  • Used PyQuery for selecting particular DOM elements when parsing HTML.  • Created a Git repository and added the project to GitHub.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Involved in daily Scrum meetings and follows agile methodology.    Tools & Technologies: Python 3.x/2.x, Django, Pandas, Django-Rest, Flask, Beautiful Soup, httplib2, Jinja2, Sublime Text, AWS, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Angular.js, Bootstrap, JSON, AJAX, Rest, PyUnit, PyQt, PyQuery, MySQL, Agile, Windows and LINUX. Python Developer Genentech - San Francisco, CA October 2016 to January 2018 Responsibilities: • Actively involved in Initial software development life cycle (SDLC) of requirement gathering and in suggesting system configuration specifications during client interaction.  • Prepared and analyzed reports using Python libraries and involved in environment setup.  • Used Python/Django MVC framework to design and develop the application.  • Used multiple Python libraries like Numpy, Scipy, Pandas, matplotlib, requests, urllib3, pickle and JSON, etc.  • Worked on object-oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, Django and Linux.  • Developed Views and Templates with Django view controller and template language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Used Python library Beautiful Soup for web scraping's.  • Wrote scripts to Import and Export data to CSV, EXCEL formats from different environments using Python and made a Celery action using REST API call.  • Developed and implemented the user registration and login feature for the application process by extending Django user model.  • Used Django evolution and manual SQL modifications were able to modify Django models while retaining all data, while site was in production mode.  • Implemented machine learning schemes using Python libraries like scikit-learn and SciPy.  • Worked on several Python packages like Matpoltlib, Pillow, Numpy, SQL Alchemy and sockets.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular form for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval to handle time series data and do data manipulation.  • Implemented REST API's in Python using micro-framework like Flask with SQL Alchemy in the backend for management of data center resources on which OpenStack would be deployed.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) for improved efficiency of storage and fast access.  • Created Python script to monitor server load performance in production environment and horizontally scale the servers by deploying new instances.  • Used Wireshark, live http headers, and Fiddler2 debugging proxy to debug the Flash object and help the developer create a functional component.  • Connected continuous integration system with GIT version control repository and continually build as the check-in's come from the developer.  • Designed and implemented a dedicated My-SQL database server to drive the web apps and report on daily progress.  • Involved in debugging the applications monitored on JIRA using agile methodology.    Tools & Technologies: Python 3.x/2.x, Django, Matpoltlib, NumPy, SQL Alchemy, Wireshark, Fiddler2, Pandas API, SciPy, Beautiful Soup, Urllib3, Rest API, JSON, HTML5, Angular.js, Bootstrap, Openstack, AWS, Flask, Jira, My-SQL, LINUX and Windows. Python Developer Nord Storm Apparels - Seattle, WA November 2015 to September 2016 Responsibilities: • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Used Python based GUI components for the front-end functionality such as selection criteria.  • Created test harness to enable comprehensive testing utilizing Python.  • Developed Business Logic using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation.  • Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users.  • Python OO Design code for manufacturing quality, monitoring, logging, and debugging code optimization.  • Developed web applications and RESTful web services and APIs using Python Flask, Django and PHP.  • Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  • Developed GUI using webapp2 for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of Python code using a web browser.  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML, JSON processing, data exchange and business logic implementation.  • Wrote advanced HTML 5, JavaScript and CSS to deliver cutting-edge user interfaces and components.  • Written Python scripts to parse JSON documents and load the data in database.  • Produced graphical models (including conditional random fields), and/or computer vision with Pandas, Numpy and Matpotlib.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Used Test driven approach for developing the application and Implemented the unit tests using Python Unit test framework.  • Created multiple Python and UNIX shell Scripts for various application level tasks.  • Developed Python scripts to perform auditing tasks and generating Excel reports to support engineering a logistics, sales and inventory management system.  • Followed Agile Methodologies and SCRUM Process.  • Interacting with QA teams to review and develop data standards, data exchange, XML data standard, and data sharing model.    Tools & Technologies: Django, Python, JSON, XML, WebApp2, RestFul, Matpotlib, NumPy, Pandas, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, Agile, MySQL, UNIX Shell Scripts and Windows. Software Developer Dhyani Technologies, Anand - Gujrat, PK March 2014 to October 2015 Responsibilities: • Involved in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Created entire application using Python and Django.  • Developed applications especially in Linux environment and familiar with all its commands.  • Involved in development of Web Services using REST for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Worked with Linux like OS on regular basis.  • Improved code reuse and performance by making effective use of various design patterns.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working with new code.  • Construct SQL queries implementing functions, packages, views, triggers, and tables.  • Involved in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support. Maintaining the scripts using the GIT version control tool.  • Maintaining customer database using MY SQL.  • Proactively worked with managers and development staff to meet project goals within expected timeline.    Tools & Technologies: Python, Django, GIT, XML, SQL, MY SQL, Linux. Education Bachelor of Engineering in Electronics and Communication Gujarat Technological University Skills Javascript, MySQL