Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Northern Safety Industrial Jersey City, NJ • 6 Years of experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Testing, Customization, Bug fixes, Enhancement, Support and Implementation of various web, stand-alone, client-server enterprise applications using Python, Django in various domains.  • Experience working in Java, JavaScript, and Python software development environments.  • Experience with Design, code, and debug operations, reporting, data analysis and web applications utilizing Python.  • Experience in developing web-based applications using Python 2.7/2.6, Django 1.4/1.3, PHP, Flask, Webapp2, Angular.js, VB, C++, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Proficient in Front end development experience using HTML, XML, CSS, JQuery, JSON, JavaScript, CSS and Bootstrap.  • Good experience of software development in Python (libraries used: Beautiful Soup, numpy, scipy, matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas data frame, network, urllib2, MySQL dB for database connectivity) and IDEs - sublime text, Spyder, pycharm, Emacs.  • Very strong experience writing API's/ and Web Services in PHP and in Python.  • Utilized Python Pandas framework to provide data analysis.  • Experienced in working on Application Servers like WebSphere, WebLogic, Tomcat, Web Servers like Apache server, NGINX and Integrated Development Environments like Pycharm, Eclipse, MyEclipse, JDeveloper and RAD.  • Developed consumer based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML, Behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pair based programming.  • Strong Experience in Big data technologies including Apache Spark, Hadoop, HDFS, Hive, Cassandra, MongoDB.  • Experienced with batch processing of data sources using Apache Spark.  • Good working experience in processing large datasets with Spark using Scala and Pyspark.  • Good experience in developing web applications implementing MVT/MVC architecture using Django, Flask, Webapp2 and spring web application frameworks.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Wrote AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings.  • Experience with creating scripts for data modeling and data import and export. Extensive experience in deploying, managing and developing MongoDB clusters.  • Experience in using UNIX shell Scripts for automating batch programs.  • Experience in performing signal processing and machine learning algorithm development for a variety of programs.  • Experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Experience with Unit testing/ Test driven Development (TDD), Load Testing.  • Excellent debugging, problem solving, optimization and testing skills. Work Experience Python Developer Northern Safety Industrial - Utica, NY October 2015 to Present https://www.northernsafety.com/    Responsibilities:  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web based solution.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and template language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Representation of the system in hierarchy form by defining the components, subcomponents using Python and developed set of library functions over the system based on the user needs.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Designed and implemented Model-View-View Model pattern for many components in the project (Contracts, Products, Search Sales, Employees, BackOffice Admin).  • Created Data tables utilizing PyQtto display customer and policy information and add, delete, update customer records.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Used Django framework for application development.  • Development of Python APIs to dump the array structures in the Processor at the failure point for debugging.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for easy timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Automated Regression analysis for determining fund returns based on index returns ( Python/Excel).  • Developed server based web traffic statistical analysis tool using Flask, Pandas.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Designed Data Quality Framework to perform schema validation and data profiling on Spark (Pyspark)  • Leveraged spark (Pyspark) to manipulate unstructured data and apply text mining on user's table utilization data  • Used JQuery and Ajax calls for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  • Creating restful web services for Catalog and Pricing with Django MVT, Jersey, MySQL, and MongoDB.  • Used SOAP and Restful API for information extraction.    Environment: Python, Django, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, SOAP, MVT, MySQL, MongoDB. Python Developer Sivic Solutions Group - Utica, NY January 2015 to September 2015 http://www.sivicsolutionsgroup.com/    Responsibilities:  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Utilized PyQt to provide GUI for the user to create, modify and view reports based on client data.  • Created a Python/Django based web application using Python scripting for data processing, MySQL for the database, and HTML/CSS/JQuery and High Charts for data visualization of the served pages.  • Developed user interface using CSS, HTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Used standard Python modules e.g. csv, robot parser, itertools, pickle, jinja2, lxml for development.  • Rewrite existing Java application in Python module to deliver certain format of data.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, JQuery and REST API calls.  • Utilize PyUnit, the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications.  • Developing predictive analytic using Apache Spark Scala APIs.  • Used Numpy and pandas for Numerical and statistical analysis.  • Applied MLlib for data mining and tuning parameters to seek the best model in test datasets.  • Responsible for search engine optimization to improve the visibility of the website.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the JQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Successful implementation of Apache Spark and Spark Streaming applications for large scale data.  • Creating data pipelines using Apache Spark, a big-data processing and computing framework.  • Planning, implementing, and converting manual test cases to automation test cases.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code  • Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Created a Git repository and added the project to GitHub.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Wrote Python modules to extract/load asset data from the MySQL source database.  • Manage MySQL content database, security and role management, apply updates, and maintain schema and documentation.  • Resolved ongoing problems and accurately documented progress of a project.    Environment: Python, Django, Web Framework, HTML, CSS, JQuery UI, MySQL Python Developer ThinkGuy Solutions - IN January 2010 to June 2014 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Participated in the complete SDLC process.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Created a Python based GUI application For Freight Tracking and processing.  • Used Django framework for application development.  • Developing applications using RESTFUL architecture using Node.js and PHP as backend languages.  • Implemented the validation, error handling, and caching framework with Oracle Coherence cache.  • Good experience with Test Driven Development.  • Created database using MySQL, wrote several queries to extract data from database.  • Setup automated con jobs to upload data into database, generate graphs, bar charts, upload these charts to wiki, and backup the database.  • Wrote scripts in Python/Oracle for extracting data from HTML file.  • Wrote scripts in Python/Oracle for extracting data from HTML file.  • Effectively communicated with the external vendors to resolve queries.  • Used Perforce for the version control.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.4, HTML5, CSS, XML, MySQL, JavaScript, Backbone JS, JQuery, Mongo DB, MS SQL Server, JavaScript, Git, GitHub, AWS, Linux, Shell Scripting, AJAX, JAVA. Software Developer Sardonyx Technologies September 2009 to December 2009 http://www.sardonyx.in  Sardonyx is a total IT solution organization, providing enhanced business value to its globalized clients through disruptive thinking and innovation.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in Design and development of UI screens for Add and Update Lending Application using Struts frame work.  • Involved in developing the business components using JAVA and JDBC.  • Design and development of UI screens using JSP.  • Worked with AJAX framework to get the asynchronous response for the user request and used JavaScript for the validation.  • Developed user-friendly modals for the form submissions using simplemodal.js, JQuery, Ajax and JavaScript.  • Used MVC Architecture in spring framework and implemented custom tag libraries.  • Generated Use case diagrams, Activity flow diagrams, Class diagrams and Object diagrams in the design phase.  • Implemented client side validations for Search and Security modules using JavaScript and Validation Framework.  • Built web-services using SOAP that allowed integrating the business application with the legacy applications and also facilitates for future applications.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  • Used JavaScript and XML to update a portion of a webpage.  • Used Python based GUI components for the front-end functionality such as selection criteria.  • Developed the dynamic User Interface using JSP utilizing Custom Tag Libraries, HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Used Object Oriented Application Design (OOA/D) for deriving objects and classes.  • Created tables, views, Types, triggers, complex join queries, stored procedures, and functions and modifications to existing database structure as required for addition of new features using SQL developer.    Environment: Java, JDBC, Python, XML, OOA, SQL, JQuery, AJAX.    Mazent solutions  http://www.mazenetsolution.com Certification program. 2008-2009 Education Bachelors in Computer Science & Engineering Sastra University Additional Information Technical Skills    Primary Languages Python, Java, C  Python Libraries Beautiful Soup, numpy, scipy, matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas data frame, urllib2  Frameworks Bootstrap, Django, Node.JS, Flask, PyJamas, Pyspark, Pyramid, Hibernate  Database Sqlite3, MySQL, Mongo DB, Hadoop, Oracle 11g  IDE's Pycharm, Eclipse, NetBeans, MS Visual Studio, PyDev, RIDE  Servers Apache Tomcat, WebSphere, JBoss, WebLogic, XAMPP  Deployment tools MS Azure, Heroku, Amazon Web Services (EC2, S3, EBS, ELB, SES)  Web Technologies HTML, CSS, DHTML, XML, Java Script  Operating systems Windows, Mac, Fedora Linux, Red hat Linux  SDLC Methods SCRUM, Agile  Testing Frameworks Junit, TestNG, ROBOT, JXL, JTest  Bug Tracking Tools Axosoft, JIRA, Bugzilla, Rational Clear-quest  Version Controls VSS, SVN, GitHub, Git