Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Credibly, NY NY • Over 9 years of experience as a Web Application Developer and Software Engineer using Python, Django.  • Participated in all phases of the System Development Life Cycle Analysis (SDLC).  • Good Knowledge in implementation Of Python best Practices (PEP8).  • Hands-on-experience on python web application development using Django and Serverless framework.  • Experience with Requests, NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib, and Pandas python libraries during development lifecycle.  • Working with backend python automation, CI pipelines, Docker and cloud provisioning/automation.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on SQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Experienced in MVC frameworks like Flask and Pyramid and MVT framework like Django  • Experience working with notebook technologies like Jupiter and open Source distribution Anaconda.  • Worked with python libraries from Python Package Index (PyPI).  • Experience with Jenkins and Enterprise GitHub.  • Developed consumer-based features and applications using Python, Django, and HTML.  • Worked on Jenkins continuous integration tool for deployment of project.  • Proficient in SQL databases MSSQL Server, MySQL (RDBMS), Oracle DB, Postgres and MongoDB.  • Working experience on JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web Services (AWS) Such as EC2, Lambda, ELB, SQS (Queuing Services), VPC and cloud watch.  • Having experienced in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL, PL/SQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Used Git and Github for Version Control.  • Remarkable knowledge of design, Normalization and Database Management Concepts.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Extensive experience in SQL, PL/SQL programming, stored procedures, triggers and Query optimization, also written queries for insert, update and modification operations.  • Performed database normalization and optimization using database tools.  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture.  • Worked on real time data integration using Kafka and Spark streaming.    • Experience in developing or operating a Video Advertising.  • Implemented responsive web pages using HTML5/CSS3, Bootstrap & XML/JSON REST web services.  • Worked on various applications using python integrated IDEs Eclipse, PyCharm, Sublime, Pystudio, Pyscripter and NetBeans.  • Extensive analytical, logical and programming skills and ability to grasp new technologies and to correctly apply new tools to build applications.  • Working knowledge of web application frameworks such as Node.js and Angular.  • Possess good interpersonal, analytical presentation Skills, ability to work in Self-managed and Team environments, fast learner and organized self-starter.  • Created and configured new JIRA projects and worked with departments to maintain existing JIRA projects.  • Good debugging, root cause analysis and problem-solving skills.  • Experienced with excellent client and project management skills.  • Self-motivated and dependable while achieving high performance with minimal supervision. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Credibly, NY May 2017 to Present Description: Credibly alters the financing answers to meet your transient needs and help you achieve your long-term objectives. This deals with the monitoring and evaluating the impact of foreign investment on security and maintains its credibility by using python ND Django.  Responsibilities:  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using html, CSS, Javascript and JQuery.  • Implemented AJAX for dynamic functionality of a webpages for front end applications.  • Used Ajax and JQuery for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  • Worked on front end frameworks like CSS Bootstrap for responsive web pages.  • Implemented presentation layer using CSS framework, Wire-Framing and HTML5.  • Worked on server-side applications with Django using Python programming.  • Associated with working cloud computing platforms like Open stack.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create user-friendly website interface.  • Wrote scripts in Python for automation of testing Framework jobs.  • Building and supporting libraries in the test automation infrastructure.  • Worked on Amazon Web Services (AWS) infrastructure with automation and configuration management tools such as Chef and Puppet.  • Developed Wrapper in Python for instantiating multi-threaded application.  • Developed various algorithms for generating several data patterns.  • Validated the data of reports by writing SQL queries in PL/SQL Developer against ODS.  • Added several options to the application to choose particular algorithm for data and address generation.  • Good Understanding of the Database Schema, Data Dictionary, Data Models for testing the data in an ETL process.  • Created data access using SQL and PL/SQL stored procedures.  • Good experience in Shell Scripting, SQL Server, UNIX and Linux, Open stack.  • Participated in the complete SDLC process.  • Written many programs to parse excel file and process many user data with data validations.  • Developed monitoring and notification tools using Python.  • Worked on UI using HTML5, CSS3 and Java Scripts.  • Worked with product development team in building necessary infrastructure to support development, test and production of the product.  • Worked on AWS Cloud Formation and Terra form API to create infrastructure on AWS as a code.  • Used Amazon EC2 command line interface along with Bash/ Python to automate repetitive work.  • Created Python script to monitor server load performance in production environment and horizontally scale the servers by deploying new instances.  • Wrote Python routines to log into the websites and fetch data for selected options.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Used the Django Framework to develop the application.  • Build all database mapping classes using Django models.  Environment: Python, PyUnit, HTML, AJAX, CSS, JavaScript, Django, Amazon Web Services (AWS), JSON, REST, MySQL, NoSQL, Bootstrap, Git, JIRA, SQL, Agile, Windows and Linux. Python Developer DaVita - Denver, CO December 2014 to May 2017 Description: DaVita is a Health-care service which provides the dialysis services for the patients who are suffering from chronic kidney failures. This project is to create API's for patients records and updates the information simultaneously.  Responsibilities:  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators, and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Developed Business Logic using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Used JQuery and Ajax calls for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web-based solution.  • Used Python based GUI components for the front-end functionality such as selection criteria.  • Created test harness to enable comprehensive testing utilizing Python.  • Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) for improved efficiency of storage and fast access.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Involved in front end and utilized Bootstrap and Angular.js for page design.  • Created Data tables utilizing PyQt to display customer and policy information and add, delete, update customer records.  • Used PyQuery for selecting particular DOM elements when parsing HTML.  • Used Wireshark, live http headers, and Fiddler2 debugging proxy to debug the Flash object and help the developer create a functional component.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Wrote Kafka producers to stream the data from external rest APIs to Kafka topics.  • Wrote Spark-Streaming applications to consume the data from Kafka topics and write the processed streams to HBase.  • Created Business Logic using Python to create Planning and Tracking functions.  • Created UI Screens for initiation and validation.  • Worked on UI using HTML5, CSS3 and Java Scripts.  • Developed multi-threaded standalone app in Python and PHP to view performance.  • Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Working in team of Architects and Developers to build and deploy Python, Flask Peewee, Linux, AWS.  • Version control using GITHub.  • Involved in writing stored procedures using MySQL.  • Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  Environment: Python 3.x, Django, Shell Scripting, AWS, Pandas, PyQt, PyQuery, Wireshark, Flash, DOM, JSON, PHP, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JavaScript, Angular.js, Bootstrap, Apache Web Server, MYSQL, GitHub, LINUX. Python Developer Juniper Pharmaceuticals Inc - Boston, MA August 2012 to December 2014 Description: The Project is to increase the growth of drug development and treatment tracking system. Also, there I Worked on conversion of Sales/Back Office Integration system from PHP to Python/Django System.  Responsibilities:  • Involved understanding the current business process, defining scope of the project along with position statement.  • Re-engineered various modules for implementing changes and creating efficient system.  • Developed dynamic web pages using python Django Frameworks.  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation.  • Supported Apache Server on Linux Platform.  • Installation and setting up Python/Unix test beds.  • Created use-case scenarios and storyboards in MS Word and MS PowerPoint for better visualization of the application.  • Write Automation/test python scripts to test.  • Flex development exposure of Flex layout and navigation, event handling, pop-up dialogs, menus and skinning.  • Used HTML, CSS for front-end applications.  • Used python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Resolved issues and improvised the process to ensure a stable and accurate solution  • Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users  • Python OO Design code for manufacturing quality, monitoring, logging, and debugging code optimization  • Responsible for analysis, design, development and integration of Market Risk applications with JAVA/ PYTHON.  • Held meetings with client and worked all alone for the entire project with limited help from the client.  • Worked on writing and as well as read data from csv and excel file formats  • Provided technical and business knowledge to clients.  • Analyzed data using Excel VBA scripts and Macros.  • Working with the architect, developers on business and technical issues, helping in designing the system; and testers to ensure all requirements are correctly translated.  • Managed requirements and tasks using JIRA  • Automate the outbound/inbound EDI document to drop files in the client ftp server  • Data mapping, logical data modeling, created class diagrams and ER diagrams and used SQL queries to filter data within the Oracle database.  Environment: MS Visio, JIRA, UML, Python 2.7, Sublime text2(IDE) Windows 7, SQL, Requests, url-lib, urllib2, Beautiful soup, Django. Java Developer Jive Software - Portland, OR April 2010 to August 2012 Description: Jive is the main supplier of correspondence and cooperation answers for business. Jive-fueled coordinated effort center points and intuitive intranets drastically enhance representative commitment, arrangement, and profitability by giving one place to interface, impart, and cooperate. This project is to build the undertaking coordinated effort programming that drives representative commitment and profitability.  Responsibilities:  • Developed Business logic using J2EE, JSP, Servlet and Spring Bean Classes.  • Developed the application using Struts Framework which is based on the MVC Design Pattern.  • Interacted with end applications and performed Business Analysis and Detailed Design of the system from Business Requirement documents.  • Implemented the business layer by using Hibernate with Spring DAO and developed mapping files and POJO java classes using ORM tool.  • Configured springapp-servlet.xml, web.xml Spring-specific deployment descriptor  • Used Spring Batch framework to load flat files to database  • Database handling, Multithreading, Synchronization, Communication.  • Involved in writing of Web Services using SOAP, WSDL, deployment, configuration and testing.  • Used Git for version control.  • Implemented application level persistence using Hibernate and Spring.  • Designed web screens for various modules using JSF, HTML, DHTML and CSS and used JavaScript as client-side validation  • Used JQUERY to handle the client-side validations.  • Monitored the error logs using Log4j and fixed the problems.  • Developed the Servlets for processing the data on the WebSphere Application server.  • Developed various UI (User Interface) components using Struts (MVC), JSP, and HTML.  • Created test plans and JUnit test cases and test suite for testing the application.  • Worked in Agile environment with active scrum participation.  • Developed build Scripts using Maven to build and deploy the application.  • Created and Modified DAO's to communicate with DB2.  Environment: Java, Servlets, JSF, Struts, Spring, Hibernate, XML, CSS, AJAX, HTML5, Git, Web Sphere Application Server, Java Script, REST Web Services, Jersey, JUNIT, MAVEN, DB2, Agile, Log4j. Education Bachelor's Skills AJAX (6 years), html (9 years), Java (9 years), Javascript (6 years), XML (7 years)