Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Ellie Mae California City, CA ? Over 7+ years of experience in the development of applications/tools using Python.  ? Having good experience in several python packages like NumPy, SciPy, PyTables.  ? Developing Web Applications using html, JavaScript.  ? Experience in Object Oriented Concepts with C, Java, and Python.  ? Involved in Design, Development, Testing, Automation, Enhancement and Maintenance of Applications and Tools.  ? Wrapper developed in Python for instantiating multi-threaded application and running with other applications.  ? Debugging the failure issues by capturing the array and register dumps using Python scripts, traces and performing several experiments by interacting with the design team.  ? Applied MVC architecture in the development of the web applications with the help of Django and Flask framework.  ? Involved in the development of the applications using Python 3.3, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JSON and JQuery.  ? Developed Views and Templates with Django view controller and template language to create an easily accessible website interface for users.  ? Involved in Design, Document, Develop and unit test Batch processing applications with Spark, Hive, HBase, Map-Reduce, HDFS and Hadoop frameworks and APIs.  ? Representation of the system in hierarchy form by defining the components, subcomponents using Python and developed set of library functions over the system based on the user needs.  ? Expert in developing test plans, test cases, test specifications and test coverage.  ? Good Experience in C/C++development of multi-threaded applications in a Linux Environment.  ? Experience with developing software applications using C, C++ and Linux/Unix environments.  ? Experience in using Pandas python libraries during development lifecycle.  ? Expertise in performing Data Analysis and Data Visualizations using R and Python.  ? Expert in writing Python modules to extract/load asset data from the MySQL source database.  ? Experienced with Elasticsearch, used by Rest API for querying written which is written by database server.  ? Wrote and executed various MySQL database queries from Python-MySQL connector and MySQL database package. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Ellie Mae - Pleasanton, CA February 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Developed Views and Templates with Django view controller and template language to create an easily accessible website interface for users.  • Developed dynamic web pages using Python Django frameworks and Used Django APIs for database access.  • Developed Python Django forms to record and access data of online users.  • Applied MVC architecture in the development of the web applications with the help of Django framework.  • Experienced in developing Python scripts to update the content in database and manipulate files.  • Created Indexed Views, complex Stored Procedures, effective functions, and appropriate Triggers to facilitate efficient data manipulation and data consistency.  • Expert in utilizing Python libraries wxPython, NumPy, Pandas, Twisted and Matplotlib.  • Involved in the development of the applications using Python 3.3, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JSONand JQuery.  • Knowledge in reviewing Python code for running the troubleshooting test-cases and bug issues.  • Proficient in developing SOAP and RESTful Web Services.  • Implemented client-side application to invoke SOAP and Restful Web Services.  • Applied server side Restful web services for external users to access our applications.  • Experienced python packages like cx_oracle, pyodbc and MySQL dB for working with Oracle, SQL Server and MySQLdb.  • Used Test driven approach for developing the application and Implemented the unit tests using Python Unit test framework.  • Experience in handling database issues and connections with SQL and NoSQL databases like MongoDB (2.6, 2.4).  • Managed and administered all NoSQL database systems.  • Excellent experience with Python development under Linux OS (Ubuntu).    Environment: Python, Django, Pandas, HTML5, NumPy, Pandas, Matplotlib, CSS3, AJAX, JSON, XML, jQuery, CSV, NumPy, Beautiful Soup, SOAP, SQLAlchemy, PyTables, sqlite3, Oracle, SQL Server, MongoDB (2.6, 2.4), Excel, MS Office, NoSQL, Linux, Unix and Windows NT/2000/XP/2003 server, Ubuntu. Python Developer Move Inc - San Diego, CA December 2015 to January 2017 Responsibilities:  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django including Tastypie Web Framework using GitHub.  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation.  • Use the Model View controller (MVC) framework to build modular and maintainable applications.  • Good Knowledge of Python and Python Web Framework Django.  • Experience in writing API's/ and Web Services in PHP and in Python.  • Created test cases for two week sprints using agile methodology.  • Designed data visualization to present current impact and growth.  • Experienced in developing internal auxiliary web apps using Python Flask framework with CSS / HTML framework.  • Coding in Python utilizing the Web2py framework with MVC methodology.  • Developed and tested various dashboard features using CSS, JavaScript, Django, and Bootstrap.  • Extracted the data sources and loaded to generate CSV data files with Python programming and SQL queries.  • Expertise in performing Data Analysis and Data Visualizations using R, Python and Tableau.  • Developed server based web traffic statistical analysis tool using Flask, Pandas.  • Created a work flow using technologies such as GIT/SSH to develop multi -programmer.    Environment: Python, Django, Java script, HTML, XML, CSS, Bootstrap, jQuery, Cassandra, CSV, R, Tableau, Flask, pandas, GitHub, Oracle, Django, sqlite3, Excel, SQL Server 2012, MS Office, SQL, MySQL, Windows. Python Developer Syntel /Philips Healthcare January 2013 to November 2015 Responsibilities:  • Used MySQL as backend database and MySQL of python as database connector to interact with MySQL server.  • Developed Python/Django application for Analytics aggregation and reporting. Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django module to deliver certain format of data.  • Daily Task Distribution within the team and keeping track of the progress using Scrum Board.  • Developed scripts in Python and Excel VBA to automate the data analysis, generating statistics isolating trends in memory failures.  • Maintained the versions using GIT and sending the release notes for each release.  • Handled potential points of failure through error handling and communication of failure.  • Implemented code in Python to retrieve and manipulate data.  • Developed Wrapper in Python for instantiating multi-threaded application.  • Managed datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL, queried MYSQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector MySQLdb package to retrieve information.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  • Expertise in performing Applied Statistics, Exploratory Data Analysis and Data Visualization using tools like ggplot2, Tableau.  • Development experience in python, Django and flask, have used MySQL, SQLAlchemy and sqlite3.  • Experience in Matplotlib and using scrapy and calculus in python.  • Provided technical assistance for development and execution of servers and client software applications.  • Worked with technical teams for performance of necessary upgrades to client and server software.    Environment: MySQL, Python, Django, GitHub, flask, HTML, Oracle, Django, SQLAlchemy, sqlite3, CSS, Excel, SQL Server, HTML, MS Office, SQL, MySQL, Linux, Windows server. C,C++ Developer Zycus Technologies October 2010 to December 2012 C, C++ Developer    Responsibilities:  • Experience with developing software applications using C, C++ and Linux/Unix environments.  • Developed applications of integrating data from SQL server into Virtual Observation System.  • Improved Virtual Observation System performance by using multi-threading (C++).  • Experience in using Pandas python libraries during development lifecycle.  • Expert in writing Python modules to extract/load asset data from the MySQL source database.  • Wrote and executed various MySQL database queries from Python-MySQL connector and MySQL database package.  • Created PyUnit test cases for unit testing.  • Managed relational database applications with UI designing services and Python languages.  • Assisted in designing and programming of object oriented databases with Python and other languages.  • Performed different testing methods like Unit testing, Integration testing, web application testing.  • Extensive code reviewing using GitHub pull requests, improved code quality.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and c database  • Developed code to send HTTP requests to webserver for agent/employee records gives up to date alerts to users.  • Developed SQL queries to get required information from Oracle database.  • Supported all production operation activities, with focus on integration and development of new and existing products and services.  • Worked with internal and external clients for import and normalization of third-party data.  • Monitored and provided front-line support of daily processes.  • Perform quality assurance and testing of SQL server environment.  • Hands on experience with Design patterns, Object oriented programming and design.  • Handled different critical customer high severity escalations with 24/7 availability.  • Participated in examination of database applications in SQL Management studio through query tables.    Environment: C, C++, SQL server, Python, Pandas, MySQL, GitHub, HTTP, Oracle, SQL, MySQL HTML, CSS, Excel, SQL Server 2012, MS Office, PL/SQL, Linux, Unix and Windows. Skills LINUX (6 years), DJANGO (5 years), UNIX (3 years), FRAMEWORKS (Less than 1 year), MICROSOFT WINDOWS (Less than 1 year) Additional Information Operating Systems UNIX, Linux, Windows 2003 Server, Windows NT/2000/XP. Windows 7,8,10.  Frameworks Django, Flask