Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Fox Interactive Los Angeles, CA Python Developer    • Over 6+ years of IT experience, with 4+ years as a Web/Application Developer and coding with analytical programming using Python, Django, C++ and 2 years as Java Developer.    • Experience of software development in Python (libraries used: libraries- Beautiful Soup, numpy, scipy, matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas dataframe, networkx, urllib2, MySQLdb for database connectivity) and IDEs - sublime text, Spyder, pycharm, emacs.    • Experience object oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, Django and Linux.    • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, UI/UX, PHP, C++, XML, CSS 5, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, RabbitMQ, Jdk1.7,Jquery, Angular.JS and Knockout.JS    • Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache.    • Experience in using Microsoft Visual SourceSafe, SVN for Version Controlling.    • Proficient in Front end development experience using HTML, XML, CSS 5, Node.JS, JQuery, JSON and Javascript, CSS 5, Bootstrap.    • Having experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.    • Hands on working with Python latest versions 3.4.3 and 2.7.10,SVN, Git, JIRA, Bugzilla, Axosoft, Amazon EC2/S3.    • Good experience in Python, Django, Zope, Pyramid Framework and In charge of legacy products (TruBid, TruGuard, TruReport).    • I have used AWS(Amazon Web services) in Redshift, EmR for improved efficiency of storage and Proficient in SQL databases MS SQL, MySQL, Oracle and no-SQL databases MongoDB, Cassandra.    • Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.    • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.    • Experience in developing web-based applications using Python 2.7/2.6, Django 1.4/1.3, PHP, Angular JS, VB, C++, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and JQuery.    • Knowledge of the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), Agile and Waterfall Methodologies.    • Expertize in designing, developing middleware components for software in C/C++ using STL, multithreading, data structures, and design patterns.    • Well versed in writing unit test cases and selenium test cases.    • Wrote AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Datatables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings.    • Experienced in writing SQL Queries, Stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, triggers.    • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL database.    • Expertise in client scripting language and server side scripting languages like JavaScript, JQuery, JSON, DOJO, bootstrap, Node.js, Angular.js, backbone.js, Require.js.    • Excellent experience with Python development under Linux OS (Debian, Ubuntu, SUSE Linux, RedHat Linux, Fedora)    • Experience with Jsp Servlets, Web Services (SOAP, REST) and Tomcat. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Fox Interactive - Los Angeles, CA July 2014 to Present Project: Responsible for the design and development of a web-based, distributed risk modeling application built to run on the global Manufacturing proprietary platform across multiple lines of business.    Lead Responsibilities:  • Participated in the complete SDLC process and used PHP to develop website functionality.  • Coding in LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and PHP) environment.  • Developed GUI HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS 5 and JavaScript (jQuery).  • Worked mainly on Core Java, C++, STL, data structures, UNIX, multithreading.  • Built application logic using Python 2.7.  • Used Apache Couchdb (NoSQL) in AWS Linux instance in parallel to RDS MySQL to store and analyze job market info.  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  • Involved in Unit testing and Integration testing.  • I have used AWS(Amazon Web services) in Redshift, EmR for improved efficiency of storage.  • Wrote AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Datatables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings.  • Used the Django Framework to develop the application.  • Used Django APIs for database access.  • UIS system design ( Python Object Oriented Design approach, developing various modules/packages/utilities, e.g.: Cryptography - Encryption/Hashing, Foundation Utilities, Persona management, error/exception management etc.).  • Used WebServices to get travel destination data and rates.  • Participated in requirement gathering and worked closely with the architect in designing and modeling.  • Issues pertaining to Realtime data being read from RabbitMQ into Postgres and Cassandra.  • Performed Design and Code reviews.  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures on MYSQL. Python Developer CenturyLink - Denver, CO April 2013 to June 2014 Project: Regulatory Reporting System  Worked in Derivatives and FX Back Office Technology for Regulatory Reporting of Foreign Exchange, Interest Rates, Credits and Equities OTC financial product transactions to national regulatory authorities such as US CFTC through DTCC (Depository Trust and Clearing Corporation).    Responsibilities:  • Worked extensively on the Python based proprietary framework Quartz.  • Performed efficient delivery of code based on principles of Test Driven Development(TDD) and continuous integration to keep in line with Agile Software Methodology principles.  • Implemented large scale data processing of trade and position level information, by using a custom built MapReduce engine.  • Implemented and consumed Task Schedulers for scheduling job priority while distributing data and map/reduce functions over Grid.  • Created time sensitive scripts to parse to large sets of serialized, unstructured data objects (30 Million), filtering and reducing data into functional reports.  • Worked on a large scale distributed computing environment, monitoring data nodes to prioritize jobs for processing functions.  • Used existing Deal Model in Python to inherit and create object data structure for regulatory reporting.  • Involved in environment, code installation as well as the SVN implementation.  • Used standard Python modules e.g. csv, robotparser, itertools, pickle, jinja2, lxml for development.  • Created modules to transform incoming XML trade data into trade objects, parse trade data and create outbound FPML (Financial Products Markup Language) sent to DTCC repositories.  • Implemented and used custom built query script to store, index and read large sets of Object data (like MongoDb)  • Trained extensively in Agile methodologies and implemented by participating in scrum standups, Kanban mode, discussing and implementing requirements with Product Owners. Python Developer Jefferies Group - Jersey City, NJ November 2011 to March 2013 Project: Developed object-oriented programming to enhance company product management.    Responsibilities:  • Used HTML/CSS and Javascript for UI development.  • Converted Visual basic Application to Python, MSQL.  • Created Reports using JASPER.  • Created data access using SQL and PL/SQL stored procedures.  • Worked extensively on Multithreading and Concurrency for implementing Batch Job Scheduling.  • Used HTML, CSS 5, JQuery, JSON and Javascript for front end applications.  • Used Linux profiler Valgrind for optimization of code.  • Automated RabbitMQ cluster installations and configuration using Python/Bash.  • Worked wResponsible for development and enhancements of all the modules of raildocs and have them running ith the design team for project structure.  • Implemented the presentation layer with HTML, DHTML, Ajax, CSS and JavaScript.  • Used Python, Perl, CGI, JQuery, JavaScript and JSON at the front end.  • Developed in Windows and going to deploy it in Linux server.  • Worked on data exchange from website using XML, JAVA and Web Services.  • Used python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users Java Developer Digital Mojo - San Diego, CA November 2009 to October 2011 Development of user interface using JSP, HTML and JavaScript.  • Used Dependency injection in Spring for Service layer and DAO layer.  • J2EE Architecture was implemented using Struts based on the MVC2 pattern.  • Written Servlet and deployed them on IBM WebSphere Application server.  • Responsible for user validations on client side as well as server side.  • Development of the Java classes to be used in JSP and Servlets.  • Used Hibernate for persistence to Oracle Database  • Improved the coding standards, code reuse. Increased performance of the extended applications by making effective use of various design patterns (Front Controller, DAO)  • Worked with PL/SQL scripts to gather data and perform data manipulations.  • Used JDBC to retrieve data from Oracle database.  • Developed build scripts using Ant.  • Developed stored procedures in Oracle.  • Used Test Driven Development approach, and wrote many unit and integration test cases.  • Troubleshooting and coded corrections for production issues discovered in the application Additional Information Technical Skills    • Operating Systems: Windows 95, 98, NT, 2000, Xp, Vista, Windows 7, 8 Linux, Unix, Microsoft  Server 2003, Mac Os, Android, Windows Mobile, Mac Osx  • Knowledge in HTML 4.02, HTML5, CSS, JS, XML, XHTML, Javascript, Jquery, Angular.JS, Knockout.JS, Java, Ruby, AS-  400, Mainframe, Phyton  • Bugs Tracker Apps: Bugzilla, Firebug, Jira, HP QC, Testlodge, TFS  • Basic Knowledge in Automation Tools: Selenium, Watir, Sikulli  • CMS: Kentico, Websphere, Teamsite, Stellent, Joomla  • Knowledge in Datawarehouse tools such: Sybase, Informatica Power Center, DVO, SAS  • Data Bases Knowledge: Oracle, PostgresSQL, MySQL, Sqlite3, MongoDB, Cassandra, SVN,