Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer Woodland Hills, CA Deepali Dargar  (818) 207-2222  deepalidargar.python@gmail.com    Profile  Proactive professional with expertise in process and performance improvement, administration, training and development, and creative business channeling. Ability to provide a team-oriented management style focused on motivation and success. Precise, resourceful problem-solver. Learn new systems quickly and have a record of producing fast, accurate work. Coordinate effectively with customers, coworkers, and inter-company departments.    • Around 6+ years of experience as a Web/Application Developer and coding with analytical programming using Python, Django.  • Experienced with full software development life-cycle, architecting scalable platforms, object oriented programming, database design and agile methodologies.  • Experienced in MVW frameworks like Django, Angular JS, Java Script, JQuery and Node.js.  • Experience in object oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, XML, CSS, HTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS, Bootstrap and JavaScript.  • Familiar with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services (AWS).  • Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Experience with the uses of NoSQL platform, such as MongoDB.  • Experience with Unit testing/ Test driven Development (TDD), Load Testing.  • Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL and Python) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL and Python) Architecture.  • Familiar knowledge on Selenium Test Framework to automate the Web applications testing process.  • Ability to rapidly learn new concepts and methodologies.  • Proven ability to work in team environment as well as independently.  • Effective Communicator: Work well with management staff and personnel at all levels. Equally comfortable dealing with customers, vendors, and the general public. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Anthem Inc September 2014 to Present CA Sep'14 - Present  Anthem is the nation's one of the largest health benefits company, with more than 33 million members in its affiliated health plans, and a total of more than 69 million individuals served through all subsidiaries. Anthem serves one in nine Americans for their medical care through Anthem affiliated health plans. Anthem has Blue Cross or Blue Cross Blue Shield licensee in 14 states and offers a broad range of medical and specialty insurance products.    Python Developer  PROJECT DESCRIPTION:  Enrollment & Billing - Building pre-enrollment application which can receive member data from external systems, enroll those members and send various reports and data to internal and external systems.    Responsibilities:  • Analyzed the Business Requirement Documents and created the technical specification documents.  • Implemented business logic in Python to prevent, detect and claim the duplicate member entries.  • Re-engineered various modules for implementing changes and created efficient system.  • Created Map Reduce programs in Python to reconcile the existing member history and new files.  • Developed dynamic web pages to view the reports generated using Django Framework and also worked in NoSQL database MongoDB.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Worked with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web Services (AWS).  • Used Jenkins to deploy your Django application and run unit tests.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.    Environment: Python, MySQL, JSON, REST, HTML, CSS, XML, Django framework, MongoDB, Windows. Python Developer First Data - Denver, CO September 2012 to August 2014 Denver, CO Sep'12 - Aug'14  First Data is a global leader in commerce-enabling technology solutions, serving more than six million business locations and 4,000 financial institutions in 118 countries around the world. First Data is innovating a wide range of next-generation commerce technology solutions for fraud detection, gaining insights into consumer spending patterns and building customer loyalty.    Python Developer  PROJECT DESCRIPTION:  Developed an event management application for the marketing department which keeps the tracks of all the marketing events held in different countries and then using the same as portal for further event planning. Also developed online marketing campaigns for them.    Responsibilities:  • Developed Python based API (RESTful Web Service) to track the events and perform analysis using Django.  • Developed and designed e-mail marketing campaigns using HTML and CSS.  • Used the portal for another application to allocate resources accordingly.  • Maintained customer's relationship management databases (MySQL / PostgreSQL).  • Developed scripts in Python to collect data and save data in a logical and organized manner.  • Used Python library Beautiful Soup for web scrapping to extract data for building graphs.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.    Environment: Python, MySQL, HTML, CSS, Django framework, MySQL, PostgreSQL, REST Windows. Python Developer Fidelity Investments - Raleigh, NC March 2011 to August 2012 Raleigh, NC Mar'11 - Aug'12  Fidelity Investments is an American multinational financial services corporation. It is the second largest mutual fund and financial services group in the world. Fidelity Investments manages a large family of mutual funds, provides fund distribution and investment advice services, as well as providing discount brokerage services, retirement services, wealth management, securities execution and clearance, life insurance and a number of other services.    Python Developer  Responsibilities:  • Worked with Business users, vendors, IT in business process assessment and to develop and implement system solutions.  • Analyzed various data sources such as websites and developed Python code to extract structured and unstructured data.  • Learned and used various Python libraries such as Scrapy, Pandas, BeautifulSoup to collect and extract data.  • Worked in a collaborative environment with other developers.  • Successfully migrated Django database from SQLite to MySQL with complete data integrity.  • Using Django evolution and manual SQL modifications was able to modify Django models while retaining all data, while site was in production mode.    Environment: Python, SQLite, MySQL, SQL, HTML, CSS, Django framework, Windows. UI Developer Ready Bytes Software Labs Pvt. Ltd May 2009 to February 2011 India May'09 - Feb'11  Ready Bytes Software Labs is a start-up company from India which provides Open Source Content Management Systems and e-commerce solutions. Ready Bytes is among 36 selected companies successfully participated in India-US Konnect event in Silicon Valley.    UI Developer  Responsibilities:  • Translated client's informational or marketing content into a functional website.  • Designed web sites and ensured that they are easy to access and visually effective.  • Wrote web pages in a combination of codes such as JQuery, AngularJS, JavaScript, HTML, CSS and Bootstrap.  • Developed templates of approved website layout.  • Coordinated with programmers and graphic designers for specialized scripts.  • Made changes to the exiting website of a client by updating current information on web pages and maintained it.  • Tested websites for functionality.  • With two other designers developed a user friendly website for client from scratch, including, determining client needs, designing architecture and delivering on time and to budget.    Environment: HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, JQuery, AngularJS, Windows. Additional Information SKILLS    • Programming /Scripts Languages: Python, SQL, PostgreSQL, HTML, HTML5, CSS, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, JQuery, Node.js  • Database: MySQL, Oracle, MongoDB, SQLite, PostgreSQL  • Framework: Django, AngularJS  • Tools: MS-Visio, Visual Studio, Sublime, PyCharm, Eclipse, Notepad++, GitHub, JIRA, ClearQuest, RTC, MS Project, Excel, SharePoint, MS Access.  • Methodologies: SDLC / Agile / Scrum