Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - CIT Group San Francisco, CA Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Python Developer CIT Group - Livingston, NJ September 2014 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Participated in the complete SDLC process and used PHP to develop website functionality.  ? Developed Restful API's using Python Flask and SQLAlchemy data models as well as ensured code  quality by writing unit tests using Pytest.  ? Designed GUI framework using PyQt and Matplotlib for two quantitative finance patents.  ? Actively involved in building Cassandra data store integrating data in real time from Oracle to  Cassandra using Cassandra, Spark streaming.  ? Also used PyQt to implement GUI for the user to create, modify and view reports based on client  data.  ? Expertise includes bash and python scripting with focus on Devops tools, CI/CD and AWS Cloud  Architecture and handson Engineering.  ? Responsible for SW product quality by ensuring by conducting code reviews, coding standards are  met, using industry best practices, and using static analysis tools.  ? Worked closely with software developers and DevOps to debug software and system problems  ? Utilized continuous integration and automated deployments with Jenkins, Ansible and Docker  ? Coding in LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and PHP) environment and installed Zookeeper to manage the Hadoop ecosystem and other big data sets  ? Hands on implementation of Continuous Delivery and DevOps end to end solutions in agile product  development lifecycle.  ? Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) for improved efficiency of storage and fast access.  ? Implemented and used custom built query script to store, index and read large sets of Object data  (like MongoDb)  ? Experience with Heroku, Site5, Amazon EC2, S3 for deployment.  ? Developed GUI HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS 5 and JavaScript (jQuery).  ? Exposure in working for developing a portal to manage and entities in a content management  system using Flask  ? Used Docker and Ansible to fully automate the deployment and execution of the benchmark suite on a cluster of machines.  ? Worked mainly on Core Java, C++, STL, data structures, UNIX scripting, multithreading.  ? Built application logic using Python 2.7.  ? Used Apache Couchdb (NoSQL) in AWS Linux instance in parallel to RDS MySQL to store and analyze  job market info.  ? Responsible for OpenStack project core infrastructure including code review, continuous integration  systems, and developer tools.  ? Worked on Landscape, a system for managing largescale deployments of Ubuntu.  ? Worked on design and implementation of an audit log system, major API design improvements, and  OpenStack cloud management.  ? Established OpenStack project Infrastructure Program and served as tech lead  ? Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML  documents.  ? Involved in Unit testing and Integration testing.  ? I have used AWS (Amazon Web services) in Redshift, EmR for improved efficiency of storage.  ? Wrote AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Datatables into HTTPserializable JSON strings.  ? Excellent project management skill with local and international teams. Ex: Continuous Integration and smoke test projects from Jenkins.  ? Used Django APIs for database access.  ? Scaled developer infrastructure as project grew and transitioned to OpenStack Foundation  ? UIS system design ( Python Object Oriented Design approach, developing various  modules/packages/utilities, e.g.: Cryptography Encryption/Hashing, Foundation Utilities, Persona  management, error/exception management etc.).  ? Used WebServices to get travel destination data and rates.  ? Issues pertaining to Realtime data being read from RabbitMQ into Postgres and Cassandra.  ? Having experienced in graph DB knowledge and oauth2 experience.  ? Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures on MYSQL.    ,  Logfire tlanta, GA  A Python Openstack Developer Python, REST & JSON October 2012 to August 2014 Responsibilities:  ? Worked extensively on the Python based proprietary framework Quartz.  ? Worked in the devops team, delivered new agile environments & build/release/configuration and deployment automation/monitoring using Jenkins, ant, maven, artifactory, chef, custom scripting and Jira for ticketing.  ? Worked on implementing GUI using PyQt in Python, REST & JSON.  ? Designed and developed a horizontally scalable APIs using Python Flask.  ? Developed POC replacing Tibco BE with Cassandra and spark streaming using AWS.  ? Performed efficient delivery of code based on principles of Test Driven Development (TDD) and continuous integration to keep in line with Agile Software Methodology principles.  ? Automation of various administrative tasks on multiple servers using DevOps.  ? Involved in back end development using Python with framework Flask  ? Implemented and consumed Task Schedulers for scheduling job priority while distributing data and map/reduce functions over Grid.  ? Created time sensitive scripts to parse to large sets of serialized, unstructured data objects (30  Million), filtering and reducing data into functional reports.  ? Worked on a large scale distributed computing environment, monitoring data nodes to prioritize  jobs for processing functions.  ? Used existing Deal Model in Python to inherit and create object data structure for regulatory  reporting.  ? Involved in environment, code installation as well as the SVN implementation.  ? Used standard Python modules e.g. csv, robotparser, itertools, pickle, jinja2, lxml for development.  ? Created modules to transform incoming XML trade data into trade objects, parse trade data and create outbound FPML (Financial Products Markup Language) sent to DTCC repositories.  ? Trained extensively in Agile methodologies and implemented by participating in scrum standups,  Kanban mode, discussing and implementing requirements with Product Owners. Python Developer Cloud Sherpas - Atlanta, GA November 2010 to September 2012 Responsibilities:  ? Used HTML/CSS and Javascript for UI development.  ? Converted Visual basic Application to Python, MSQL.  ? Created Reports using JASPER.  ? Worked on Openstack Swift for moving large data files using Keystone and Horizon and integrated  them into the web services and client server application  ? Created data access using SQL and PL/SQL stored procedures.  ? Worked extensively on Multithreading and Concurrency for implementing Batch Job Scheduling.  ? Used HTML, CSS 5, JQuery, JSON and Javascript for front end applications.  ? Used Linux profiler Valgrind for optimization of code.  ? Automated RabbitMQ cluster installations and configuration using Python/Bash.  ? Worked responsible for development and enhancements of all the modules of raildocs and have  them running with the design team for project structure.  ? Implemented the presentation layer with HTML, DHTML, Ajax, CSS and JavaScript.  ? Used Python, Perl, CGI, JQuery, JavaScript and JSON at the front end.  ? Developed in Windows and going to deploy it in Linux server.  ? Worked on data exchange from website using XML, JAVA and Web Services.  ? Used python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  ? Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users Java Developer American International Group - New York, NY March 2008 to October 2010 Development of user interface using JSP, HTML and JavaScript.  ? Used Dependency injection in spring for Service layer and DAO layer.  ? J2EE Architecture was implemented using Struts based on the MVC2 pattern.  ? Written Servlet and deployed them on IBM WebSphere Application server.  ? Responsible for user validations on client side as well as server side.  ? Development of the Java classes to be used in JSP and Servlets.  ? Used Hibernate for persistence to Oracle Database  ? Improved the coding standards, code reuse. Increased performance of the extended applications by making effective use of various design patterns (Front Controller, DAO)  ? Worked with PL/SQL scripts to gather data and perform data manipulations.  ? Used JDBC to retrieve data from Oracle database.  ? Developed build scripts using Ant.  ? Developed stored procedures in Oracle.  ? Used Test Driven Development approach, and wrote many unit and integration test cases.  ? Troubleshooting and coded corrections for production issues discovered in the application    Additional Information Additional Information ? Operating Systems: Windows 95, 98, NT, 2000, Xp, Vista, Windows 7, 8 Linux, Unix, Microsoft  Server 2003, Mac Os, Android, Windows Mobile, Mac Osx  ? Knowledge in HTML 4.02, HTML5, CSS, JS, XML, XHTML, Javascript, JQuery, Angular.JS, Knockout.JS,  Java, Ruby, AS  400, Mainframe, Python  ? Bugs Tracker Apps: Bugzilla, Firebug, Jira, HP QC, Testlodge, TFS  ? Basic Knowledge in Automation Tools: Selenium, Watir, Sikulli , docker , Jenkins  ? CMS: Kentico, Websphere, Teamsite, Stellent, Joomla  ? Knowledge in Datawarehouse tools such: Sybase, Informatica Power Center, DVO, SAS  ? Data Bases Knowledge: Oracle, PostgreSQL, MySQL,Sqlite3, MongoDB, Cassandra, SVN,