Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - G E San Ramon, CA ? Over 6+ years of IT experience, which incorporates 5 years of Professional Python development experience  using Python, Django framework.  ? Handy experience in developing Web Applications and implementing Model View Control architecture using  various Web Frameworks like Django, Pyramid, .NET  ? Experienced in using various programming languages like Python, Java, C and C++, C#, ASP.NET, VB.NET.  ? Proficient with various python libraries like SciPy, NumPy, Matplotlib, Pandas, PyTables, pickle to enhance the  performance throughout the SDLC.  ? Experienced in developing Web Services using Python programming language with SOAP, REST and securing API  with JWT libraries.  ? Proficient with various DBMS like MySQL, PostgreSQL, MongoDB and Cassandra.  ? Well versed with Design and Development of presentation layer for web application using technologies like  HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, XML, JavaScript, AJAX, jQuery, Jinja2 and JSP.  ? Familiar with development and deployment of various cloud based systems like AWS and GCE.  ? Experience using version control system such as GIT and SVN, with Jenkins, Crucible and Fisheye.  ? Good experience in shell scripting and shell commands.  ? Able to work with different operating systems like MacOS, Windows, Linux and Unix.  ? Wrote and executed test cases based on written design, as well as based on product knowledge which improved  software performance.  ? Thorough understanding of providing specification using waterfall model, agile software methodology to  modeling systems and business processes.  ? Hands on experience in business processes and system solution utilizing prototype development, system  development and deployment.  ? Very good at analyzing a problem and able to resolve it with ease.  ? Able to cope with any assigned task and equally comfortable with being a valuable contributor in team efforts.  ? Excellent at communication, teamwork, problem solving, critical thinking, collaboration, time management. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer G E - San Ramon, CA September 2016 to Present Project Description:  The project is to develop an application for asset management team that generates reports of the underlying GE Power's  equipment like transformers, relay etc. concerning their maintenance, replacement and failure metrics as well as generate a dashboard representation showing their performance index.    Responsibilities:  * Actively involved in requirement gathering and analysis period of the project in recording the business  requirements by leading workshops/gatherings with different business clients.  * Utilized Agile Methodology and SCRUM Process.  * Working cross-functionally to ensure proper functionality and delivery.  * Configuration of API Gateway and REST services.  * Participate in code reviews, automated and functional testing, and other aspects of our quality assurance  process.  * Deployed applications on AWS by using Elastic Beanstalk.  * Used AWS SDK to connect with Amazon SQS for bulk email processing. Closely analyzed the database tables  using sequel pro tool of MySQL to resolve integrity issues.  * Used jQuery and AJAX calls for transmitting JSON data objects between front end and controllers.  * Designed and developed the UI for the website with HTML5, CSS3, Javascript, Bootstrap.  * Deployed the entire code using Linux parameters of the virtual machines for UAT phase.  * Coordinate and assist with the design, development implementation and support of software for business use in production environment.  * Providing daily reports to the Development Manager and participate in both the design phase and the development phase.  * Collaborate with key stakeholders and project managers to design, develop, integrate, test, document and implement the system.  * Tracking defects and resolving bugs using JIRA.  * Ensured quality by versioning with GIT.  Environment: - Python 3.0, Django 1.10, MySQL, Linux, Shell Scripting, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JIRA, GIT. Python Developer CBS Corporation - New York, NY January 2015 to August 2016 Project Description:  CBS Corporation is an American mass media corporation focused on commercial broadcasting, publishing, and television production, with most of its operations in the United States.    Responsibilities:  * Involved in analysis, specification, design, and implementation and testing phases of Software Development Life  Cycle (SDLC) and used Agile methodology (SCRUM) for developing application.  * Upgraded existing UI with HTML, CSS, jQuery and Bootstrap.  * Developed a custom, single-page, responsive web application on front end using AngularJS.  * Working as an application developer experienced with controllers, views and models in Django.  * Involved in creating EC2 instances and installed required configurations and applications on it and created S3  buckets for storing object level data into it.  * Used AWS Cloud Watch to monitor and store logging information.  * Implemented Micro-services using RabbitMQ with Pika client.  * Implemented the application using Python Spring IOC, Django Framework and handled the security using  Python Spring Security.  * Used object/relational mapping (ORM) solution, technique of mapping data representation from MVC model to Oracle Relational data model with an SQL-based schema.  * Implemented Performance tuning and Improved the Performance of Stored Procedures and Queries.  * Wrote unit testing codes using unittest, resolved bugs and other defects using Firebug, Firebug Lite ensured  with browser compatibility.  * Restful web services using Python REST API Framework.  * Involved in installing and configuring pyBuilder for application builds and deployment.  * Worked on logging to validate functionalities.  * Used Jenkins as the integration tool and improved scalability of applications on cross-platforms.  * Used JIRA to assign, track, report and audit the issues in the application.  * Used GIT for version control.    Environment: - HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, AngularJS, Ajax, Spring Python, MongoDB, XML, GIT, unittest,  pyBuilder, Web Services, Oracle, Restful, Micro Services, EC2, S3, JIRA, Jenkins. Python/Java Developer Blizzard Entertainment - Irvine, CA June 2013 to December 2014 Project Description:  The scope of the project is to create and maintain a tool to evaluate performance of the software. Also, worked on content delivery tool to deliver latest update to customer.    Responsibilities:  * Analyzed the Business Requirement Documents and created the technical specification documents. Experienced  working in Waterfall model.  * Responsible for complete SDLC including coordinating proposals, project meetings, code-reviews etc  * Designed and developed installation wizard for in house application chemia - document management system  * using core Java.  * Analyze, develop, integrate, and then direct the operationalization of new data sources.  * Written chef cookbooks and recipes to Provision several pre-prod environments consisting of Cassandra DB  installations, weblogic domain creations and several proprietary middleware installations.  * Involved in writing Python, and shell scripts for compilation and deployment process.  * Automated the cloud deployments using chef, python (boto & fabric) and AWS Cloud Formation Templates.  * Used Jenkins to deploy Django application and run unit tests.  * Designed and configured database and back end applications and programs.  * Created Views and developed Stored Procedures, Functions and Triggers.  * Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL  dB package.  * Used AJAX to reduce page reloads.  * Developed HTML, CSS, and JavaScript to present Client side GUI.  * Support quality development practices and pursue new and better ways to build software.    Environment: - Python, Django, HTML/XHTML, CSS, JavaScript, Java, Ajax, MySQL, Linux, Shell Scripting, GIT. APPLICATION DEVELOPER TECHNICOLOR - Toronto, ON November 2011 to May 2013 Project Description:  Previously Cinram Incorporated, a Canada based manufacturer of pre-recorded Blu-ray, DVDs, CD-Audio, CD-ROMs,  VHS tapes and audio cassettes.    Responsibilities:  * Developed a Report Email Service to send Email to the user with requested report attachment.  * Developed in ASP.NET, C#, Crystal Reports and AS400/DB2 on the backend.  * Created Client Quote Web Service to get online quote request from "BAX Web Service", the service is developed  in ASP.NET, C#, XML with AS400/DB2 on the backend.  * Created Text 2 SQL Data Converter Application to convert and store SQL Data from Text Data.  * Developed Absenteeism Report Service to generate Absenteeism report on behalf of HR to the Managers and Supervisors for all employees.  * Prepared requirements through analysis of relevant systems and consultation with users, and preparing detailed  flow chart diagrams and program specifications.  * Involved in database designs, systems design, coding, compiling, testing, documenting and implementation for the above projects.  * Prepared the test plan and test cases for these projects. Designed and created different kinds of reports for all  projects using Crystal Reports.  Environment: - ASP.NET, C#, XML, AS400.DB2, Crystal Reports Education Bachelors of Science in Computer Science in Education University of Ontario Institute of Technology - Oshawa, ON June 2012 Skills AJAX (4 years), database (6 years), Django (4 years), Javascript (4 years), Python (4 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Operating Systems UNIX, Red Hat Linux, MS Windows, Ubuntu and Mac OS.    Methodologies Agile, Waterfall, Hybrid(Agile-Waterfall).    Web technologies JSON, XML, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX.    Web Frameworks DJANGO, FLASK, Spring    Languages Python, Java, C++, SQL, Shell Scripting, UML, JSP.    Database Oracle, MYSQL Server, PostgreSQL, MongoDB, Cassandra.  Configuration Management GitHub, SVN, CVS, Maven.    Application Servers Apache Tomcat servers, Coherence server.    Testing Tools HP Quality Center, JIRA, Load Runner.