Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - BNP PARIBAS New York, NY • Over 9 Years of experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Management and Implementation of various stand-alone, client-server enterprise applications in Python on various domains.  • Good experience in developing web applications implementing Model View Control architecture using Django web application frameworks.  • Experienced in working with various Python IDE's using PyCharm, PyScripter, Spyder, PyStudio and PyDev.  • Implemented different python libraries BeautifulSoup, numpy, scipy, pytables, matplotlib, memcache, PySide, Pandas data frame, PyQtGraph and urllib2 in various tasks.  • Expertise in Object-Oriented design and coding.  • Good experience in Python, Django, Shell Scripting, SQL Server, Unix and Linux.  • Knowledge of HTML, JavaScript, CSS, Ajax and JQuery.  • Developed web applications and Restful web services and APIs using Python, Flask, Django and PHP.  • Built custom UI Widgets and Application logic using OOD and MVC architecture.  • Useful learning of web services with protocols SOAP, REST.  • Worked on changes to open stack and AWS to accommodate large-scale data center deployment.  • Knowledge of ORM mapping using SQLALCHEMY.  • Experienced in writing SQL Queries, Stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, triggers.  • Worked on SQL databases like MYSQL, NOSQL, and Oracle.  • Analyzed and handled large datasets using Oracle Relational database 9G, 10G.  • Skilled in debugging/troubleshooting issues in complex applications.  • Developed Build Scripts to fortify certain Applications using Ant and Maven.  • Have good idea about development tools like Bugzilla, Jira, Confluence, Axosoft.  • Have good knowledge on No-Sql databases like Cassandra, MongoDB.  • Experience with Unit testing, Test driven Development(TDD), Load testing , Integration testing, User acceptance testing, Functional testing.  • Skilled in Requirement gathering, Use case development, Business Process flow, Business Process Modeling: extensively used UML to develop various use cases, class diagrams and sequence diagrams.  • Good knowledge in working with application server -Apache Tomcat, Web logic.  • Hands-on experience in Python scripting, Python STL, Pylons, Django, UI and web development.  • Used SVN and GIT for version control.  • Experience in Agile development techniques.  • Performed code reviews and implemented best Pythonic programming practices.  • Willing to learn and adapt to any platform.  • Excellent analytical and problem solving skills and ability to work on own besides being a valuable and contributing team player. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer BNP PARIBAS - New York, NY March 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Working on Python 3.4 and working independently.    • Working closely with B.A's for rapidly changing business requirements.    • Developed scripts in python for Financial Data coming from SQL Developer based on the requirements specified.  • Worked on Files for picking, modifying based on requirement and updating in the desired location.    • Worked on different python libraries like xlrd, openpyxl, urllib etc.    • Making the script for production by scheduling based on the requirement.    • Improved code reuse and performance by making effective use of various design patterns and refactoring code base.  • Implemented responsive vector maps and charts on web pages using the data from postgreSQL.    • Collaborate with Product Management and User Experience experts regarding product definition, schedule, scope and project-related decisions.  • Manage, collaborate and coordinate the work of an offshore development team.    • Experienced in Linux shell commands and command line utilities.    • Experience with advanced CSS concepts and also building table-free layouts.    • Worked on front end frame works like CSS Bootstrap for development of Web applications.    • Experienced in writing SQL Queries and implementing stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, Cursors, triggers.  • Model View Control architecture is implemented using Django Framework to develop web applications.    • Created Django dashboard with custom look and feel for end user after a careful study of Django admin site and dashboard.  • Implemented business logic, data exchange, XML processing and created graphics using Python and Django.  • Worked on JIRA as bug tracking tool and experienced in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM Process.    • In time submission for the urgent needs of the business.    Environment: Python 3.4, CSV, MySQL, MS SQL Server, Atlassian tools, Windows 12 Server, Linux, and Windows, Django, PostgreSQL, CSS, Bootstarp, JIRA, Agile Python Developer DirecTV - El Segundo, CA December 2014 to March 2017 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for getting the teams up and running with game record features.    • Worked on requirement gathering and High level design.    • Used HTML/CSS, XML and JavaScript for UI development.    • Converted Visual basic Application to Python, MySQL.    • Used python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.    • Created Reports using JASPER.    • Modified queries, functions, cursors, triggers and stored procedures for MySQL database to improve performance, while processing data.  • Developed build and deployment scripts using ANT and MAVEN as build tools in Jenkins to move from one environment to other environments.  • Performed Unit/System test.    • Prepared the Test data (Input files) for interpreting the Positive/Negative/regression results based on the design requirements.  • Developed automated test scripts from manual test cases for Regression testing based on the requirement documents using Quick Test Professional.  • Skilled in using Collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.    • Wrote many programs to parse excel file and process many user data with data validations.    • Responsible for Parsing XML data using XML parser and Testing, fixing of the bugs and coding modifications.    • Created data base tables, functions, stored procedures and wrote prepared statements using PL/SQL.    • Used Thales theorem for applying encryption and decryption of ISO standard message in Python programming.  • Applied EMV card algorithms to system via python programs.    • Contributed patches back to Django.    • Performed research regarding Python Programming and its uses and efficiency.    • Utilized Python in the handling of all hits on Django, Redis, and other applications.    • Used Redis as messaging broker to execute asynchronous tasks.    • Developed object-oriented programming to enhance company product management.    • Experience in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM Process.    • Extensive code reviewing using GitHub pull requests, improved code quality, and also conducted meetings among peer.  • Collaborated with Product Management and User Experience experts regarding product definition, schedule, scope and project-related decisions.  • Managed, collaborated and coordinated the work of an offshore development team.    Environment: Python 2.7, Visual Basic, Java Script, Hive, XML, JASPER, QTP, MySQL, PL/SQL, Oracle 9i, Bugzilla Python/Django Developer Creehan & Company - Pittsburgh, PA August 2012 to December 2014 Responsibilities    • Translated the customer requirements into design specifications and ensured that the requirements translate into software solution.  • Application was based on service oriented architecture and used Python 2.5, Django 1.5, JSF 2, Spring 2, Ajax, HTML, CSS for the frontend.  • Designed the front end of the application using Python, Java, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON and JQuery. Worked on backend of the application, mainly using Active Records.  • Analysed system requirements specifications and also in client interaction during requirements specifications.    • Worked on Analysis and Design of application.    • Created UI using JavaScript and HTML5/CSS.    • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, ROBOT framework, Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Writing backend programming in Python.    • Used JavaScript and XML to update a portion of a webpage and Node.js for server side interaction.    • Implemented web applications in Flask and Spring frame works following MVC architecture.    • Used spring, JDBC and JPA at persistence layer (DAO)    • Used Robot Framework, RIDE and developed few test suites for testing application.    • Used Adobe CQ for helping with reusing the components and templates for creating different web pages.    • Develop consumer based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML, Behaviour Driven Development (BDD) and pair based programming.  • Performed Unit testing, Integration Testing, GUI and web application testing using Spec.    • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Experience with advanced CSS concepts and also building table-free layouts.    • Worked on front end frame works like CSS Bootstrap for development of Web applications.    • Experienced in writing SQL Queries and implementing stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, Cursors, triggers.  • Collaborate with Product Management and User Experience experts regarding product definition, schedule, scope and project-related decisions.  • Develop digital consumer experiences based on foundation of the Adobe CQ/AEM product suite.    • Manage, collaborate and coordinate the work of an offshore development team.    • Special skills in developing user friendly, simple yet effective web based applications.    • Deployed the project into Heroku using GIT version control system.    • Worked in MySQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization and renormalization.  • Used many regular expressions in order to match the pattern with the existing one.    • Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.    • Skilled in using collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.    • Work with team of developers on python applications for RISK management.    • Taken part in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Used Pandas library for statistics Analysis.    • Used Numpy for Numerical analysis for Insurance premium.    • Improved code reuse and performance by making effective use of various design patterns.    • Created most important Business Rules which are useful for the scope of project and needs of customers.    • Designed the architecture of the hardware environments and methodology of the code.    • Experienced in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM Process.    • Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all of its commands.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.4, Cassandra, Windows, Linux, HTML, CSS, Node.js, JavaScript, Jira, Linux, Git, Google Analytics, CRUD, Adobe CQ/AEM. Web Developer Intuitive Surgical - Sunnyvale, CA April 2010 to August 2012 Responsibilities:  • Worked closely with UI designers to understand the detailed intuitive UI prototypes and components.    • Designed the front end of the application using CSS, AJAX, JSON and JQuery.    • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Flask, CSS and JavaScript.    • Wrote back end programming in Flask.    • Created RESTful http services to interact with UI.    • Used JavaScript and XML to update a portion of a webpage.    • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using HTML, JavaScript.  • Experience with advanced CSS concepts and also building table-free layouts.    • Implemented BackboneJS for creation of networking applications using JavaScript.    • Experience in writing SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, read, update and delete.  • Special skills in developing user friendly, simple yet effective web based applications.    • Deployed the project into Heroku using GIT version control system.    • Worked in MySQL database on simple queries and wrote Stored procedures for normalization and renormalization.  • Responsible for debugging issues using Android Debugger.    • Used Git and Jira for code submissions and review process.    • Managed code versioning with GitHub and deployment to staging and production servers.    • Executed Display Controller regression tests with every firmware build release.    • Reported Issues using Excel to senior members in the team.    • Worked in development of applications in UNIX environment and familiar with all of its commands.    Environment: AJAX, Java Script, HTML, XHTML, JQuery, JSON, XML, CSS, MySQL, PL/SQL. Education Bachelor's