Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - College Board New York, NY • 8+ years of Professional IT experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Testing of Enterprise Applications and Database Development.  • Extensive knowledge in Python, Java, MySQL, Oracle, Unix and Linux.  • Experience in object oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, Django and Linux.  • Good knowledge of toolsets such as SVN, Fisheye, Crucible, Anaconda, and Regression Testing.  • Good experience in unit testing with Karma, Mocha, Jasmine, Protractor  • Highly proficient in design/development of standalone and web applications using JavaScript, XML, DHTML, Ajax, Tomcat and Apache Application server over various platforms (UNIX, Linux, and Windows).  • Good Experience in Linux Bash scripting and following PEP Guidelines in Python.  • Used SVN, JIRA, GIT and GIT HUB for version control and Clear Quest for bug oracle.  • Experience in developing web-based applications using Python 2.7/2.6, Django 1.4/1.3, PHP, Flask, Webapp2, Angular.js, C++, XML, CSS, AJAX HTML/HTML5, JSON, MVC3 DHTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Hands on experience with testing frameworks (ScalaTest, JUnit, Cucumber) and Continuous Integration.  • Good understanding of NoSQL databases such as MongoDB, Datastax, Redis and Apache Cassandra.  • Design, develop and Implement Business Intelligence project ETL, reporting and Dataware house using Microsoft and IBM products  • Experienced in using Caching applications like Memcached, Redis.  • Working knowledge Mongo DB, Oracle, SQLite databases.  • Involved and played a leading role in database migration projects from Oracle to MongoDB,Couchbase, Apache HBase, Cassandra, CouchDB databases based on my custom software.  • Expertise in Implementing MVC design pattern-using Struts 1.1 & 2.1, Spring 3.0 and Hibernate 3.0 Frameworks with Maven and Ant in various Java/J2ee design patterns.  • Expert in RDBMS including MySQL, Microsoft SQL Server, Oracle, IBM DB2, and NoSQL Databases, MongoDB, Redis.  • Good experience in Python, Flask, Django, Pyramid Framework. Knowledge of Pandas, Numpy, Scipy.  • Experienced in data modeling for analytics by building queries using Map/Reduce (pymongo/mongodb) and implementing for visualization using Elastic search, kibana and logstash on Apache server.  • Expertise in analyzing OLAP and OLTP Databases and worked with Cloud computing as well by using Openstack.  • Strong understanding and knowledge of Linux, automation and CI Tools like Chef, Hudson, Jenkins & Git with scripting languages (Shell, python) Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer College Board - New York, NY June 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Worked in stages such as analysis and design, development, testing and debugging.  • Experienced in NoSQL technologies like MongoDB, Cassandra and relational databases like Oracle, SQLite, PostgreSQL, Dynamo DB and MySQL databases.  • Wrote Automation test cases using Selenium WebDriver, Junit, Maven, and Spring.  • Wrote Junit test cases for unit, integration, and functional tests, run automatically by Hudson/Jenkins in the builds triggered by each push to GIT.  • Implemented Behavior Driven Development using Rspec and Cucumber to Perform testing.  • Used Hibernate for data manipulation and access.  • Experience with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins.  • Monitored Bamboo builds and Maven artifacts for errors  • Involved in preparing engineering specification with OOA and OOD. Used UML Tools to develop Use Case diagrams, Class diagrams, Collaboration and Sequence Diagrams, State Diagrams and DataModeling.  • Analyzed and fine Tuned RDBMS/SQL queries to improve performance of the application with the database.  • Used Couchbase Python SDK to build applications that use Couchbase Server.  • Designed, developed, and managed enterprise production data warehouses and business intelligence and analytics platforms and applications.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web based solution.  • Writing Unit, Functional, and Integration test cases for Cloud Computing applications on AWS using Python with boto library.  • Used Redis cache for storing commonly used info and propagate the changes using RabbitMQ.  • Used Pandas library for statistics Analysis &Numpy for Numerical analysis.  • Used OOP concepts to develop newer libraries for automation  • Used Couchbase Python SDK to build applications that use Couchbase Server.  • Implemented code to perform CRUD operations on MongoDB using PyMongo module.  • Implemented Automated Build System for Innovation using Ant Build System.  • Experienced in developing UNIX shell scripts and bash scripting.  • Participated in all phases of the System Development Life Cycle Analysis (SDLC).  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures on MYSQL.  • Involved in the development of front end of the application using Python 2.7, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JSON and Jquery.  • Created various classes based on object-oriented methodology (OOPS) to ensure functionality and to incorporate future changes as a part of designing and development phase.  • Designed and maintained databases using Python and developed Python based API (RESTful Web Service) using Flask, SQL Alchemy and PostgreSQL.  • Implemented RESTful Web Services for the data transportation between multiple systems.  • Used Python to extract weekly bed availability information from XML files using underscore JS. Python Developer Johnson Controls - Chicago, IL March 2015 to June 2017 Responsibilities:  • Involved in the Complete Software development life cycle (SDLC) to develop the application.  • Involved in UI refactoring that involves extensive use of Ajax  • Involved in test scenarios, test cases, test plans and test data using tool Cucumber.  • Hands-on experience in Python scripting, Python STL, Django, UI and web development.  • Analyzed the code completely and have reduced the code redundancy to the optimal level  • Develop programs to automate the testing of RAID controller firmware and utilities using Python 2.7, Java, Bash script, Windows command line, AutoIt, AutoHotKey.  • Implemented Automated Build System for Innovation using Ant Build System.  • Deployed the project into Jenkins using SVN version control system.  • Designing mobile search application system requirements and coded back-end and front-end in Django/ Python.  • Develop the Data Warehouse components like Universal Data Loader (UDL) to support dataingestion and edmigrate - a component to migrate all data in to the database for reporting purposes.  • Involved and played a leading role in database migration projects from Oracle to MongoDB,Couchbase, Apache HBase, Cassandra, CouchDB databases based on my custom software.  • Having experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Used Test driven approach (TDD) for developing services required for the application.  • Involved in writing Maven scripts for automated deployment of the application and managed GitHub Projects and migrated from SVN to GitHub with merge and version.  • Views and Templates were developed with Python and Bash scripting and to create a user-friendly website interface Django's view controller and template language is used.  • Developing predictive analytic using Apache Spark Scala APIs.  • Worked on analysis, design, development and implementation of web applications using PHP, Zend Framework, Oracle and MySQL  • Learnt Object Oriented Programing (OOP) concepts during development of standalone application in Python.  • Monitors technology and industry trends for new business intelligence opportunities.  • Worked with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services (AWS).  • Designed and developed Use-Case Diagrams, Class Diagrams, and Object Diagrams using UML Rational Rose for OOA/OOD techniques.  • Used Hibernate framework for back end development and Spring dependency injection for middle layer development.  • Designed and developed System monitoring in Python and Redis to keep track health of Platform, Hbase, Storm, Kafka etc in the multi-node cluster environment  • Trained on embedded system design including ARM assembly and embedded C coding  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis.  • Worked on JavaScript MVC Framework like Angular.JS.  • Used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Exported Test case Scripts and modified the selenium scripts and executed in Selenium RC environment.  • Experienced in all phases of usability testing including user profiles and personals, task analysis, contextual research, test moderation, and reporting using Karma and Jasmine. Python Developer Fiserv - Dallas, TX December 2012 to March 2015 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Participated in the complete SDLC process  • Created a Python based GUI application For Freight Tracking and processing  • Used Django framework for application development.  • Developed stored procedures, triggers and functions to process the data using PL/SQL and mapped it to Hibernate Configuration File.  • Used UML Rational Rose to develop Use-case, Class and Object diagrams for OOA/OOD techniques.  • Developing applications using RESTFUL architecture using Node.js and PHP as backend languages.  • Successful implementation of Apache Spark and Spark Streaming applications for large scale data.  • Wrote scripts in Python/Oracle for extracting data from HTML file.  • Parsed XML file using Python to extract data from database.  • Designed and developed a horizontally scalable APIs using Python Flask.  • Designed Cassandra schema for the API.  • Used Apache Couchdb (NoSQL) in AWS Linux instance in parallel to RDS MySQL to store and analyze job market info.  • Evaluate new software, tools and technologies to improve business intelligence and analytics  • Developing a tool for front office Market Sales for e-trading, reporting and business intelligencegathering.  • Integrated with Redis Cache and Rabbit MQ to store and propogate common information like account and diagnostics information.  • Implemented Python script (Pandas, Numpy, xlrd) to combine, migrate and transpose excel files  • Maintenances PHP/MySQL, Classic ASP/MSSQL. Communicating and interfacing with previous developers on a regular basis.  • Associated with working cloud computing platforms like Openstack.  • Involved in creating Puppet modules using manifests. Uploading desired classes for the nodes (clients).  • Worked on major and minor upgrades of Couchbase and Cassandra cluster.  • Developed Persistence layer using Hibernate and implemented DAO to handle the data base interaction.  • Used python Flask micro-framework for workflow and Cassandra database for managing the raw, transformed data.  • Designed front end using UI, HTML, Bootstrap, Node JS, underscore JS, Angular JS, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  • Used Php language on lamp server to develop page  • Developed dynamic interaction page on .net MS visual basic-2014, using SQL developer tools. Java Developer BMO Harris bank - Chicago, IL August 2010 to December 2012 Responsibilities:  • Developed Webservices WSDL using Apache Axis and Handled XML messages using JAXB with the concept of marshelling and unmarshelling approach.  • Involved in the deployment of web components on the Websphere server in UAT environment.  • Developed web services in Java and Experienced with SOAP, WSDL.  • Created the low level design for the application which included Package Diagrams, Class Diagrams and Sequence Diagrams.  • Designing mobile search application system requirements and coded back-end and front-end in Django/ Python.  • Developed the View pages in JSP, using CSS,DOM and JavaScript validations.Developed AJAX code in JavaScript and JSON, EXT JS Libraraies  • Thorough knowledge of UML, RUP and other software development methodologies.  • Created Defect Tracking for each file using CMVC process using Unix commands.  • Oracle 11g used as backend, worked on SQL queries for persistence of data. Involved in creating different SQL scripts for query operations.  • Designed DOM based interactive to reprogram selected links and handled JSON/XML data and carried out JSON/XML parsing for form submissions and DOM manipulations.  • Involved in writing Spring Configuration XML, file that contains declarations and business classes are wired-up to the frontend managed beans using Spring Web Flow.  • Developed the front end user interface for the application using JSP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and AJAX.  • Created reports from data warehouse using SSRS i.e. Drill Down, Drill Through, Sub Reports, Charts, Table.  • Developed the application using Eclipse as the IDE and used eclipse standard/plug-in features for mutator/accessor code generation, editing, debugging, compiling, formatting, build automation, and for version control.  • Manage the Business Intelligence data warehouse to support reporting and analytics  • Involved in the creation of JUnit Unit Test Cases using Test Driver Development (TDD) technique.  • Involved in migrating SOAP based Web Service to RESTful services.  • Data format using HTML, CSS and client side scripting using JavaScript.  • Integrates applications by designing database architecture and server scripting. Studying and establishing connectivity with network systems, search engines and information servers.  • Responsible for software development lifecycle (SDLC) including interpreting requirements, developing the solution and testing the results.  • Designed the front-end applications and user interactive web pages using web technologies like Angular JS, Node JS and HTML5.  • Developed the DAO layer for the application using Spring Hibernate Template support.  • Debugged the application using Firebug to traverse the documents and manipulated the Nodes using DOM and DOM Functions using Firefox and IE Developer Tool bar for IE.  • Developed Use Case Diagrams, Object Diagrams & Class Diagrams in UML.  • The proto-type built using leveraging the Model-View-Controller (MVC) design pattern. All controls were bound using data binding to the View Model.  • Coded extensively in JavaScript to make rich internet web pages and created custom date picker on the website.  • Used Dependency Injection feature of Spring 3.0 MVC framework and O/R mapping tool Hibernate for rapid development and ease of maintenance. Education Bachelor's Skills Javascript, Android, PHP, MySQL, ASP