Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - Ogilvy & Mather New York, NY • Over 6+ Years of Experience in Analysis, Design, and Development of various stand-alone, Client-Server and Web Based Software applications using Python, Django, AngularJS/2, Node and Express.  • Experience in Object Oriented Analysis in developing Python Back-End framework using various design patterns.  • Proficient in all phases of software development life cycle including requirement analysis, Debugging, Design, Development, Integration, Maintenance, Testing of Python web applications.  • Proficient in developing web-based applications using Python 2.7/2.6, Django 1.4/1.3, PHP, Flask, Webapp2, Angular.js, VB, C++, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, JQuery, Bootstrap.  • Libraries used: Pandas data frame, network, Beautiful soup, NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib, urlib2, JSON libraries and MySQL database for connectivity. Knowledge of web scraping technologies such as BeautifulSoup4 and Urllib2 and Understanding of machine learning libraries such as Sci Kit-learn and TensorFlow.  • Experienced in Object Oriented Design, Programming concepts and unit testing using Pythons Uni- test library, Jasmine and Karma.  • Experience in developing Web-Applications implementing Model Template View architecture using Python and Django web application framework • Experienced in effective implementation of Django object-relational mapping layers (ORM) and effectively utilizing various relational databases.  • Hands on experience in developing and implementing REST and SOAP Web Services.  • Experienced in providing client form validation, building custom directives and filters using Angular. Having Strong experience setting up and working with CRUD operations inside Oracle SQL, Microsoft SQL, PostgreSQL, MYSQL and MongoDB.  • Experienced in using Versioning tools like Git and GitHub to maintain current and historical versions of files such as source code, web pages, and documentation.  • Experienced in working with different operating systems such as Windows, Linux and UNIX. Working knowledge in Object Oriented Concepts (OOPS) like Collections, Multithreading and Exception Handling.  • Familiar with bug tracking tools such as You Track, Bugzilla and Backlog • Experience in Agile methodologies such as Extreme Programming, Waterfall Model and TDD.  • Excellent client interaction and presentation skills and proven experience in working independently as well in a team with good leadership qualities. Work Experience Sr. Python Developer Ogilvy & Mather - New York, NY April 2018 to Present • Involved in building database Model and Views utilizing Python, to build an interactive web-based solution.  • Migrated present Linux environment to AWS/CentOS/RHEL by creating and executing a migration plan per scheduled timeline to complete the migration.  • Optimized the boot time for image-generation and scan data acquisition server by enhancing the startup scripts.  • Increased speed and memory efficiency on the image-generation and scan data acquisition component builds.  • Involved and worked on different Rest API's development by using Flask and Swagger.  • Modeled the application to support bi-directional communication between server and client using Akka HTTP.  • Designed front-end presentation logic using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Ajax, AngularJS and Nodejs technologies for front-end user input validations and Restful web service calls.  • Deploy and monitor scalable infrastructure on Amazon web services (AWS)& configuration management using chef.  • SQL Naming Conventions Enforcement, Using Python; Stored Procedures created a server job that enforces naming conventions for all SQL objects. Creating a more constant SQL environment.  • Developed Python scripts to monitor health of Mongo databases and perform ad-hoc backups using Mongo dump and Mongo restore.  • Created test automation framework from scratch using Cucumber with Page Object Model (POM) using python language. Developed User Stories using python in Behavior Driven Development for User Acceptance Testing.  • Involved in helping the UNIX and Splunk administrators to deploy Splunk across the UNIX and windows environment.  • Created Python and Bash tools to increase efficiency of call center application system and operations; data conversion scripts REST, JSON, and CRUD scripts for API Integration.  • Responsible for Configuring Kafka Consumer and Producer metrics to visualize the Kafka System performance and monitoring.  • Developed user interface using BOOTSTRAP UI and Angular JavaScript to simplify the complexities of the application.  • Wrote Lambda functions in python for AWS's Lambda, Kinesis and Elastic Search which invokes python scripts to perform various transformations and analytics on large data sets in AMAZON EMR clusters.  • Created Python and Bash tools to increase efficiency of retail management application system and operations; data conversion scripts, AMQP/RabbitMQ, REST, JSON, and CRUD scripts for API Integration.  • Involved in software development life cycle (SDLC) of tracking the requirements, gathering, analysis, detailed design, development, system testing and user acceptance testing.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Designed the front end of the application using HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JSON and JQuery.  • Developed RESTful services using Django.  • Worked on backend of the application, mainly using Active Records.  • Designed and developed communication between client and server using Secured Web services.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Java, Bootstrap, CSS.  • Worked on updating the existing clip board to have the new features as per the client requirements.  • Used many regular expressions in-order to match the pattern with the existing one. Python Developer HSBC - New York, NY February 2017 to April 2018 • Responsible for Developing GUI using Python and Django for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of python code using a web browser.  • Worked with a team of 5 people in designing, implementing and delivering a complete CRM analytic solution in AWS.  • Worked closely with and used Python libraries like Beautiful Soup and matplotlib, Python developer to implement Machine learning algorithms.  • Used Bootstrap and Angular.JS, React.js and Node.js in effective web design.  • Worked on server applications with Django using Python programming.  • Developed GUI using Python and Django for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of python code using a web browser.  • Built a Neo4j graph DB of corporate hierarchy data from Fact set terminal.  • Implemented Spark Graph-X application to analyze guest behavior for data science segments.  • Worked with Graph Database (Neo4J) and implemented caching model for graph databases with background updates for various Microservices.  • Enhanced user experience by designing new web features using MVC Framework like Express JS and Node.JS.  • Worked on the modernization of a legacy and outsourced UI technologies used were Angular JS 2, CSS, Node.JS, Express JS and AWS (Amazon Web Services).  • Responsible for working on different database, writing queries and responsible for backend data access modules using PL/SQL stored procedures.  • Worked on Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Made an application for eBay to detect the fraud which was occurring in their bidding process in addition to making a counter to detect every single bid which can detect the fraud.  • Developed, tested, and deployed Business feature set in Node.js with Express and MongoDB backend, incorporating APIs.  • Developed application using Amazon Web Service (AWS) like EC2, cloud search, Elastic load balancer ELB, Cloud Deploy and monitor scalable infrastructure on Amazon web services (AWS) & configuration management using puppet.  • Designed and developed DB2SQL Procedures and UNIX Shell Scripts for Data Import/Export and Conversions. Associate Python Developer CISCO - San Jose, CA July 2015 to January 2017 • Designed front end and backend of the application utilizing Python on Django Web Framework.  • For the dashboard utilized the Python web development framework Turbo Gear.  • For the development of the user interface of the website used HTML, CSS, Java Script and AJAX • To update a portion of a webpage used JavaScript and JSON and controlled modules that allow applications to be built on top of the web, or the command line using Giotto.  • Modify the existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data and have work knowledge on JIRA(Agile) for the bug tracking of the project.  • Worked on a lightweight Web framework emphasizing flexibility and rapid development with the help of pylons and Developed the front-end featuring rich web interface using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and used jQuery framework for UI centric AJAX behavior.  • Written Python scripts to parse JSON documents and load the data in database.  • The data manipulations on the client side is done by using jQuery and Made reusable Widgets using concepts familiar from GUI programming with Reahl and for the development of the web applications utilized CSS and Bootstrap.  • To share the information across the applications used pickle/unpickle in python and Utilized Python libraries like Numpy and matplotlib for generating graphical reports and Used jQuery Ajax calls to build dynamic websites and Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Experienced with GIT version control and deployed the project to Heroku and Worked with Zope frameworks include the ZODB, an object database for Python.  • Worked on the development of SQL and stored procedures for normalization and renormalization in MYSQL and was involved in AJAX driven application by invoking web services/API and parsing the JSON response.  • Independent template engine agnostic (integration with: jinja2, mako, tenjin and wheezy template) plus html widgets.  • Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  • Worked on Self-service development of systemThis included web crawler, data analysis and management. Worked on San Francisco Food Trucks Project, Application Search Engine Project, Process Amazon Transaction Project.  • San Francisco Food Trucks Project ( Python, HTML, JavaScript, CSS, GIT) • Provide Food Trucks web service. It utilizes a minimal amount of source files to support all the functionalities, including a front page (index.html), a style sheet (home.css), a JavaScript API code file (map.js) and a folder containing all the supportive images • Process Amazon Transaction Project ( Python, Git, Ding Talk, UNIX, SQL), Wrote program to process Amazon Transaction files to analysis payment detail functions.  • Worked on LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, PYTHON) architecture.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL and Django.  • Developed full stack Python web framework with an emphasis on simplicity, flexibility, and extensibility. It is built atop excellent components and reinvents zero wheels. WSGI, routing, templating, forms, data, plugins, config, events, SQL Alchemy, Storm, OpenID, App Engine, JQuery, etc.  • Executed MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package to retrieve information.  • Skilled in using Collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  • Used Couch base Python SDK to build applications that use Couch base Server and involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using JSON.  • Bulk data/issues import into JIRA using CSV file templates and was involved in REST client testing as part of this project and creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  • Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development and was responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Involved in Design, Development, Deployment, Testing, Implementation of the application.  • Prototyped an augmented reality solution in the form of a video using Premiere Pro, and Python, Git Adobe After Effects.  • Implemented the application in UNIX environment and comfortable with all its commands. WEB DEVELOPER American Express- Gurgaon(India) - New York, NY January 2013 to July 2015 • Analysis of requirements and implement different functions according to design.  • Django and Flask frameworks. Moreover, I have good knowledge in REST APIs, JSON, PostgreSQL, MySQL, developed front-end code with Ajax call in AngularJS and jQuery to retrieve data as JSON Object from controllers in back-end RESTful Server, then display the well-organized result in web pages by writing AngularJS controller, directives, services, and route providers. Also used Angular.js filter to make the data searchable and sortable.  • Supported the bank website in creating user profiles, we can also do the simple banking transactions for the with drawls, deposit and transactions is accompanied by password check by securing.  • Created a RESTful web service in Scala, Akka Actors & Elastic Search to download sample projects using RESTFul API from GitHub.  • Explore fault injection tools written in different languages like C, C++ and suggest integration of tools.  • Deployed DevOps using Puppet, Dashboard, and Puppet DB for configuration management to existing infrastructure.  • Implemented responsive web pages using HTML5/CSS3, Bootstrap & XML/JSON REST web.  • Involved in different layers such as Front and Back end as well as developing Web Applications with W3C, XHTML, HTML5, PHP, CSS3 standards and using Python, Django.  • Worked on Payment Processing which involves monitoring payments and provide required solutions and was involved in the complete software life cycle (SDLC) to develop the web application.  • Coding application using Python, Django in End-to-End Web application development using MVC architecture while front-end is built on CSS3 and HTML5.Used Test Driven Approach for developing the application and implemented the unit tests using Python Unit Test framework called PyUnit.  • Designed Database Model for the entire application Creating tables, Views and Stored procedures and implementation of client-side validations using jQuery, Angular JS and ASP.NET MVC Validation implemented at Controller level.  • Designed and developed various abstract classes, interfaces, classes to construct the business logic using C# .NET and develop consumer-based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML, Behavior Drive Development (BDD) and pair-based programming.  • Performed Unit testing, Integration Testing, GUI and web application testing using Spec and implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Worked on advanced CSS concepts and building table-free layout and worked on frontend frameworks like CSS Bootstrap for development of Web applications.  • Wrote SQL Queries and implementing stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, Cursors, triggers and created Database Schema for MySQL Database and involved in designing ER-Diagrams using Microsoft Visio.  • Worked on Restful API's to access the third-party data for the internal analysis and statistical representation of that data and worked on Pandas to import the data, Sort and plot the statistical data using histograms.  • Worked on Python Scripts to create Excel and CSV files for documenting the Statistical Reports and used Pandas for Statistical Analysis in the application and Numpy for the advance math functionalities.  • Worked on Python Libraries such as HTTPLib2, Urllib and support closed caption (SCTE20/21), AMOL1/2 and TV Guide • Integration with multiple encoders and verification device and has detect SCTE27 subtitle and route them to proc card.  • Spearheaded the efforts to bring in new challenging projects for the teams (Locate TV Website, Hybrid Cloud DVR and Low Latency ABR Live Streaming).  • Designed the architecture of the hardware environments and methodology of the code.  • Used JavaScript for Dynamic Page Functionality, popup screens and the user entry validations. Education Bachelor's Additional Information Skills    Python (5+ years), MySQL (3+ years), Django (5+ year), Software Development (4+ years), Cloud Computing (3+ year), Networking (3+ years), Agile (3+ year), Internet Research (3+ year), Network Security (3+ year), Web Development (4+ year).    Technical skills:    • Operating Systems Linux, Windows 10/8/7/Vista/XP, Mac  • Programming Languages Python 2.X, Python 3.X, C, C++, Java, SQL, PHP  • Web technologies HTML, CSS, XHTML, Java Script, jQuery  • Webserver Web logic, Apache Tomcat 5.5,6.0,8.0, NGINX  • Databases MySQL, Oracle, Microsoft SQL, PostgreSQL, MongoDB  • Python Web frameworks Django, Pyramid, Flask, web2Py  • Development IDE PyCharm, Pydev Eclipse, Vim, Net beans, MS Visio, Sublime Text, Notepad++  • Web Services SOAP, RESTful  • Version Control Git-Hub, Sub Version  • Build Tools GNU, Apache Ant, Apache Maven, Buck, Bit-Bake, Boot, Grunt  • Cloud Frameworks Open stack, Helion.  • Virtualization Platforms KVM, HPVM, Dockers.  • Profiling Tools C-profile, profile, T-prof, G-prof,  • Methodologies Agile, Scrum, Waterfall