Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - TDS Telecom Pewaukee, WI • Over 8+ years of experience in IT industry with proficiency in Design & Development using, Python, Django, Java/J2EE and Flask projects.  • Experience in application development using Python, Django, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, Oracle, PostgreSQL and SQLite.  • Experience in various stage of software development life cycle includes requirements, analysis, design, development, deployment and testing of an application for business outputs.  • Worked on several Python packages like Numpy, SciPy, Matplotlib, Pandas, and CSV.  • Worked on various applications using Python integrated IDEs Sublime Text, PyCharm.  • Having experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment.  • Excellent knowledge of OOPS, Multi-Threading and Collections concepts and its usage in Python and Java.  • Strong Experience in web based UI design and interface development using HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Worked on Python Libraries PyJamas, Jython and followed the best practices using PEP-8.  • Maintained the code using source version controls Git and CVS.  • Worked on automation using the Python scripting language.  • Experienced in automated scripts written in Python for use in testing.  • Worked on standard Python packages like boto and boto3 for AWS.  • Hands on Experience in AWS like Amazon EC2, Amazon S3, Amazon Redshift, Amazon EMR and Amazon SQS. Cloud systems design, implementation and troubleshooting (AWS, Rackspace, Google, Azure).  • Involved in producing and consuming web services using both REST and SOAP.  • Strong Experience in Big data technologies including Apache Spark, Hadoop, HDFS, Hive, Cassandra, MongoDB.  • Experience in working with different operating systems like Windows, Linux, Unix.  • Experienced in Shell scripting and UNIX commands.  • Worked on JIRA for bug tracking and communicating for better results Strong Experience in Big data technologies including Apache Spark, Hadoop, HDFS, Hive, Cassandra, MongoDB  • Substantial Experience with server-side technologies including relational databases (Oracle, MySQL, DB2, SQL Server and PostgreSQL), RESTful services and MVC design patterns.  • Proficient in Machine Learning algorithms and Predictive Modeling including Linear Regression, Logistic Regression, Naive Bayes, Decision Tree, Neural Networks, Random Forest, Ensemble Models, SVM, KNN and K-means clustering.  • Involved in developing web application using Java with Spring and Hibernate ORM frameworks.  • Very good knowledge with cloud platforms like Amazon AWS and Google App Engine.  Skilled in debugging/troubleshooting issues in complex applications.  • Experience in developing different statistical Machine Learning, Text Analytics, Data Mining solutions to various business generating and problems data visualization using Python.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL, PostgreSQL, Cassandra, Oracle and MongoDB. Designed and Developed automation scripts using Selenium WebDriver.  • Skilled in writing and reviewing requirements, architecture documents, test plans, design, documents, quality analysis and audits.  • Exceptional problem solving and decision-making capabilities, recognized by associates for quality of data and alternative solutions. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Python Developer TDS Telecom - Madison, WI December 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  • Designed the front end of the application using Python, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON and JQuery. Worked on backend of the application.  • Used the Django Framework to develop the application.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Used JavaScript and JSON to update a portion of a webpage.  • Developed consumer based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML, Behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pair based programming.  • Rewritten existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile)  • Wrote Python scripts to parse JSON documents and load the data in database.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Implemented web applications in Flask frame works following MVC architecture.  • Worked on front end frame works like CSS Bootstrap for development of Web applications.  • Used Bootstrap front-end framework for faster and easier web development with MySQL database, Node.js as the backend.  • Added user validations and user permissions by using the Node.JS  • Involved in deployment of project using AWS.  • Using Chef, deployed and configured Elasticsearch, Logstash and Kibana (ELK) for log analytics, full text search, application monitoring in integration with AWS Lambda and CloudWatch.  • Worked on creating the Docker containers and Docker consoles for managing the application life cycle.  • Setup Docker on Linux and configured Jenkins to run under Docker host.  • Automated Nagios alerts and email notifications using Python Script and executed them through Chef.  • Developed Chef Cookbooks to install and configure Apache Tomcat, Jenkins and Rundeck and deployment automation.  • Kubernetes is being used to orchestrate the deployment, scaling and management of Docker Containers.  • Used Jenkins pipelines to drive all micro services builds out to the Docker registry and then deployed to Kubernetes, Created Pods and managed using Kubernetes  • Experience with Streaming platforms like Apache Kafka  • Used Apache Kafka (Message Queues) for reliable and asynchronous exchange of important information between multiple business applications.  • Deployed the project into Rackspace using GIT version control system.  • Worked in MySQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization and denormalization.  • Install and run Mongodb with multiple instances on servers.  • Setting up MongoDB Profiling to get slow queries.  • Used many regular expressions in order to match the pattern with the existing one.  • Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  • Skilled in using Collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  • Performed Unit testing, Integration testing, and web application testing.  • Taken part in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Worked in development of applications especially in LINUX environment and familiar with all of its commands.  Environment: Python, Django, HTML5, CSS3, XML, MySQL, JavaScript, Angular JS, Backbone JS, JQuery, CSS Bootstrap, Mongo DB, MS SQL, T-SQL, Eclipse, Git, GitHub, AWS, Linux, Shell Scripting, Chef, Apache Tomcat, Docker, Kafka, Jenkins, Kubernetes, Node.js. Principal Financial Group - Des Moines, IA April 2014 to November 2016 Role: Sr. Python Developer  Responsibilities:  • Associated with various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the application like requirement gathering, Design, Analysis and Code development.  • Developing Python Framework using Django to perform scan software unit monitoring.  • Designed the front end of the application using Python.  • Design and development of user interfaces and client displays using Java Script, JSP, CSS and troubleshoot various issues in Python code and fix them with code enhancements- code used various python libraries such as PyJamas and Jython.  • Built various graphs for business decision making using Python matplotlib library.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Worked with optimization of server resources, Amazon Elastic Cloud instances and website security, Web services /REST, Amazon AWS, Chef and Puppet.  • Developed Kafka consumers to consume data from Kafka topics  • Responsible for Configuring Kafka Consumer and Producer metrics to visualize the Kafka System performance and monitoring  • Deployed the application on cloud using AWS.  • Used Chef for server provisioning and automating infrastructure.  • Development and version control of Chef Cookbooks, testing of Cookbooks using Food critic and Test Kitchen and running recipes on nodes managed by on premise Chef Server.  • Used Amazon Cloud EC2 along with Amazon SQS to upload and retrieve project history.  • Created instances in AWS as well as worked on migration to AWS from data Center. Worked on developing internal testing tools which were written in Python.  • Developed the front-end featuring web interface using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and used JQuery framework for UI centric AJAX behaviour.  • Developed server side application and server side validations using Django framework.  • Performed validations for input fields making use of mainly Active Records.  • Implemented MVC architecture in developing the web application with the help of Django framework.  • Developed micro service on boarding tools leveraging Python and Jenkins allowing for easy creation and maintenance of build jobs and Kubernetes deploy and services.  • Implemented a production ready, load balanced, highly available, fault tolerant, auto scaling Kubernetes infrastructure and micro service container orchestration.  • Used Docker with functional Database data and running Dev server from scratch  • Used Docker commands to remove all unused images  • Associated with working cloud computing platforms like Open stack.  • Built various graphs for business decision making using Python Matplotlib library.  • Fetched twitter feeds for certain important keyword using python-twitter library  • Analysis and Design of application.  • Implemented business logic using Python/Django.  • Responsible for setting up Python REST API framework using Django.  • Worked on Design and development of Restful APIs using Node.js  • Working in MySQL, RDS database with node.js framework to develop APIs  • Implement code in python to retrieve and manipulate data.    Environment: Python 3.x, Django 1.4, MySQL, Linux, Docker HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, Perl, Apache Web Server, Kubernetes , Git , Linux, Chef, Kafka, Node.js. Python Developer Amdocs - El Dorado Hills, CA September 2013 to March 2014 Responsibilities:  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create user-friendly website interface.  • Developed dynamic web pages using python Django Frameworks.  • Used Mongo DB-NoSQL database for storing the information.  • Extensively implemented the python libraries like Pandas, Matplotlib, Numpy, to manipulate and visualize the data using interactive charts.  • Features for dashboard were developed and tested using CSS, AngularJS and Bootstrap.  • Developed forms using HTML and performing client-side validations using JavaScript, JQuery and Bootstrap.  • Developed Python /Django application for Google Analytics aggregation and reporting.  Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users. Involved in analyzing Hadoop cluster using Hadoop Distributed file system (HDFS) in data analytics process including Ma Reduce, HBase, Hive etc  • Used SVN repository for software configuration management and version control.  • Used JIRA for tracking and Updating Project issue.  • Used data structures like directories, tuples, object oriented class based inheritance features for making complex algorithms of networks.  • Maintained technical documentation for resolved issues for future reference  • Used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from Python using Python -MySQL connector and MySQL DB package. Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures on MYSQL.  • Also, used Bootstrap as a mechanism to manage and organize the html page layout. Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud. Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis.  • Worked very closely with designer, tightly integrating Flash into the CMS with the use of Flashvars stored in the Django models. Also, created XML with Django to be used by the Flash.  • Used HTML, CSS, JQuery, JSON and JavaScript for front end applications.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile).  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.    Environment: Amazon AWS S3, MySQL, HTML, Python 2.7, Django 1.8, HTML5, CSS, XML, MySQL, MS SQL Server, JavaScript, AWS, Linux, Shell Scripting, Python Developer CVS Health - Woonsocket, RI January 2012 to August 2013 Responsibilities:  • Web-services backend development using Python (CherryPy, Django, SQLAlchemy).  • Worked on HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Git, REST API, Mongo DB, intelliJ IDEA.  • Design and Setting up of environment of Mongodb with shards and replicasets. (Dev/Test and Production).  • Private VPN using Ubuntu, Python, Django, CherryPy, Postgres, Redis, Bootstrap, Jquery, Mongo, Fabric, Git, Tenjin, Selenium, Sphinx, Nose  • Worked on writing and as well as read data from csv and excel file formats.  • Used other packages such as Beautifulsoup for data parsing.  • Wrote Python routines to log into the websites and fetch data for selected options. Used Python modules such as requests, urllib, urllib2 for web crawling.  • Participated in developing the company's internal framework on Python. This framework became a basement for the quick service's development. Framework based on CherryPy with GnuPg encryption (reGnuPg module) on the top.  • Worked on resulting reports of the application and Tableau reports.  • Managed and reviewed Hadoop log file and also worked in analyzing SQL scripts and designed the solution for the process using PySpark.  • Developed rich user interface using CSS, HTML, JavaScript and JQuery. Created a Python based GUI application For Freight Tracking and processing  • Used Django framework for application development. Excellent knowledge with distributed storages (HDFS) and distributed processing (MapReduce, Yarn).  • Create custom VB scripts in repackaging applications as needed. NLP File Prep Settlement-Prepare files for review for Settlement.  • Held meetings with client and worked all alone for the entire project with limited help from the client.  • Developed and maintained various automated web tools for reducing manual effort and increasing efficiency of the Global Shipping Team.  • Developed automated testing framework for command-line based tests on Linux using Objected Oriented Perl and for selenium-based tests using Python.  • Created database using MySQL, wrote several queries to extract data from database.    Environment: Python2.7, Django, HTML5/CSS, MS SQL Server 2013, MySQL, JavaScript, Eclipse, Linux, Shell Scripting, JQuery, GitHub, Angular.JS, Jira. Software Developer Shore Info India Private limited - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2010 to December 2011 Responsibilities:  • Worked with team of developers on Python applications for RISK management.  • Designed the database schema for the content management system.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Used PHP to write dynamically generated pages quickly.  • Wrote Python routines to log into the websites and fetch data for selected options.  • Web pages on the internet are generated by servers running LINUX.  • Worked on middle tier and persistence layer. Created service and model layer classes and Value objects/POJO to hold values between java classes and database fields.  • Exported/Imported data between different data sources using SQL Server Management Studio. Maintained program libraries, users' manuals and technical documentation.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Worked PHP as a server-side scripting language, for web pages.  • Successfully migrated all the data to the database while the site was in production  Environment: Python, Oracle, Eclipse, MySQL, Linux, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript Education Bachelor's Skills CSS (8 years), HTML (8 years), JAVASCRIPT (8 years), LINUX (8 years), MYSQL (8 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:  Programming Languages Python, C, C++, Java, GoLang    Technologies HTML, XHTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, XML, JSON, Docker  Frameworks Django, Flask, Pyramid, Struts  Databases Oracle, SQL, PL/SQL, MySQL, PostgreSQL, DB2, MongoDB, and Cassandra InfluxDB  Web Services AWS, RESTful Web Services, SOAP  Version Control Git, GitHub, SVN, CVS  IDE's/Development Tools PyCharm, Eclipse, Sublime Text, NetBeans  Protocols TCP/IP, HTTP/HTTPS, SNMP, SMTP, NetFlow, SFlow  Deployment Tools Heroku, Jenkins    Operating Systems UNIX, Linux, Windows, Mac OS  Servers WebSphere, WebLogic, JBoss, Apache Tomcat  Testing Tools Selenium and Junit    Methodologies Agile, Scrum and Waterfall