Software Engineer Software Engineer Software Engineer - ASML/Cymer, CA • Dynamic, innovative, skilled and experienced Python/SAS Developer and Linux around 5+ Years in IT industry with Python and Cloud computing infrastructure such as Amazon Web Services (AWS).  • Experience in working on Open Stack components along with Sales force CRM (SAAS, PAAS) and have extensively worked with Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS) environments using tool Chef.  • Experienced in working on Application Servers like Web Sphere, Web Logic, Tomcat, Web Servers like Apache server, NGINX and Integrated Development Environments like PyCharm, Eclipse, My Eclipse, JDeveloper and RAD.  • Working knowledge of Java Web Services with real time knowledge using SOAP and REST.  • Experience in AWS Cloud platform and its features which includes EC2, AMI, EBS Cloud Watch, AWS Config, Auto-scaling, IAM user management, and AWS S3.  • Experience developing web-based applications using Python 2.7/2.6, Django 1.4/1.3, PHP, Flask, Webapp2,  • Hands on experience on deployment and packaging tool like Ansible.  • Configure and assign role base access (RBAC) and SUDO to users.  • Experience with Python development under Linux OS (Debian/Ubuntu/SUSE Linux/Red Hat Linux/Fedora).  • Experience with Apache Kafka JMS and Rabbit MQ as the message-oriented middleware.  • Extensive knowledge and experience in developing Single Page Applications (SPA) using AngularJS & Power Shell.  • Expertise in Querying RDBMS such as Oracle, MYSQL and SQL Server by using SQL for data integrity.  • Strong background in object-oriented programming, design patterns, algorithms, and data structures.  • Good experience in developing web applications implementing Model View Control architecture using Django, Flask, Pyramid, and Zope Python web application frameworks.  • Expertise in Object-Oriented design and coding and in analyzing and handling large database using Oracle Relational data Architecture.  • Experience working on scalable environment in Agile/SCRUM methodologies Preparing Test Cases using TDD (test driven development) and BDD (behavior driven development) approach using RSpec/Cucumber on multiple platforms like Linux, Mac and Windows.  • Excellent understanding and knowledge of Hadoop Distributed file system data modelling, architecture and design principles.  • Having experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Expertise in MVW frameworks like Django, Angular JS, Java Script, JQuery and Node.js. Work Experience Software Engineer ASML/Cymer, CA March 2018 to Present ASML is one of the world's leading manufacturers of chip-making equipment. Our vision is to enable affordable microelectronics that improves the quality of life. To achieve this, our mission is to invent, develop, manufacture and service advanced technology for high-tech lithography, metrology and software solutions for the semiconductor industry. ASML's guiding principle is continuing Moore's Law towards ever smaller, cheaper, more powerful and energy-efficient semiconductors. I have involved in the development of CPD (Calibration, Performance and Diagnostics) software application using Python to verify and validate the EUV light source machinery.  Responsibilities:  • Design and develop CPD Test scripts for Droplet Generator steering system, with Python, Linux Internal and driver interfaces  • I have also gained the knowledge on embedded domain.  • Involved in EUV source machine RS/RH device driver development/enhancement, unit testing, bug fixing  • Calibration, Performance and Diagnostics (CPD) software test implementation for Extreme Ultraviolet (EUV) light sources.  • Developing and enhancing the existing CPD with Python PyUnit Test Framework on Red Hat Linux, Wind River workbench eclipse, clear quest, clear case  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  • Deployed the project into Jenkins using SVN version control system.  • Used Code Collaborator for reviewing the code and document to meet the software quality, did Integrations with Jira, SVN and eclipse.  • Involved writing documents in Team Center Product lifecycle management (PLM) which is an information management system that can integrate data, processes, and business systems and, ultimately, people in an extended enterprise.  • Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Involved in Unit testing and Integration testing.  • Analyse current design and operational procedures, identify problems, and learn specific output and input requirements.  • Automate software applications/solutions and optimize business processes using C++, Python, Boost and UML languages.  • Test, maintain, monitor, coordinate computer programs and systems, expand and modify system to comply with system principles and management processes.  • Document and revise system design procedures, test procedures, and quality standards using GTest, GMock and PLC simulator framework test tools.  • Involved in preparation of SIA, TPS and TAR documents (test plan and test specification) for the PSG software.  Environment: Python 3.4, Code collaborator, HTML, Devbench, Wind river, XML, CSS, MySQL, Bootstrap, SVN/Git, Linux, Eclipse. Python Developer Freddie Mac - McLean, VA May 2017 to February 2018 Responsibilities:  • Designed virtual and hybrid IT environments using Amazon Web Services.  • Customized and simplified Open Stack dashboard services using REST API.  • Developed the configuration Scripts in Node.JS, mark logic RESTAPI and Management API.  • Automated CI/CD process using Jenkins, build-pipeline- plug in, maven, GIT.  • Developed unit and functional tests in Python and Ruby.  • Automate testing of RESTFul APIs using Postman.  • Used ANT, Puppet/ Chef Scripts with Ivy to build the application and deploy.  • Involved in hand-coding HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, and other UI technologies.  • Involved in web application development using Django/ Python, Flask/ Python, jQuery, Ajax while using HTML/CSS/JS for server-side rendered application.  • Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  • Experience using Ansible Tower dashboard, role-based access control, access to Ansible for deployments.  • Used Test driven approach for developing the application and Implemented the unit tests using Python Unit test framework.  • Created Branches, Labels and performed Merges in Stash and GIT.  • Administered Code Repositories in SVN and Bit bucket.  • Involved in the complete Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) to develop the application.  • Used Test driven approach (TDD) for developing services required for the application.  • Implemented Integration test cases.    Environment: Python 2.7/3.5, HTML5, CSS3, Angular 2.0, Shell Scripting, JSON, Rest, Apache Web Server, Django, Celery, Flash, SQL, UNIX, Windows, PostgreSQL, SQL Alchemy, AWS Python Developer University of California - Oakland, CA May 2016 to April 2017 Responsibilities:  • Build and configure a virtual data center in the Amazon Web Services cloud to support Enterprise Data Warehouse hosting including Virtual Private Cloud (VPC), Public and Private Subnets, Security Groups, Route Tables, Elastic Load Balancer.  • Implemented automated local user provisioning instances created in AWS cloud.  • Implemented Restful Web-Services for sending and receiving the data between multiple systems.  • Became AWS proficient and understood AWS cloud provisioning methods to deploy AMIs.  • Utilized AWS Cloud watch to monitor environment for operational & performance metrics during load testing.  • Converting the reports into client accepted reporting formats like PDF and EXCEL using SAS ODS.  • Developed SAS Formats Specific to Client Requirements.  • Responsible for automating CM tools to implement CM policies and procedures.  • Administer and maintain change, release, and configuration management tool.  • Develop and implement an automated Linux infrastructure using Puppet.  • Provided the assistance for the smooth phase of Release for the Emergency and Expedite Releases by getting the Director Level Approval and coordinating with different teams.  • Involved in converting Hive/SQL queries into Spark transformations using Spark RDD.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Created entire application using Python, Django, MySQL and Linux.  Environment: Worked on User administration setup, maintaining account, Ubuntu, Linux, Windows, EC2, Chef, Puppet, SWF, EBS RDS, Glacier, ELB, and S3. Python Developer PROS - Houston, TX March 2015 to April 2016 Responsibilities:  • Wrote Python routines to log into the websites and fetch data for selected options.  • Implemented code in Python to retrieve and manipulate data.  • Used Python modules such as requests, urllib, and urllib2 for web crawling.  • Used other packages such as Beautiful soup for data parsing.  • Worked on writing and as well as read data from CSV and excel file formats using Python.  • Web-services backend development using Python (CherryPy, Django, SQL Alchemy).  • Worked on resulting reports of the application and Tableau reports.  • Participated in developing the company's internal framework on Python. This framework became a basement for the quick service's development.  • Manipulating the data according to client requirement, using various SAS statements, Functions and Proc Sql.  • Designed and developed components using Python with Django framework.  • Created a Python-based GUI application for Freight Tracking and processing.  • Experience in designing and developing applications in Spark using Scala.  • Wrote scripts in Python for extracting data from HTML file.  • Participated in the complete SDLC process..  • Extracting acting data from the database using SAS/Access, SAS SQL procedures and create SAS data sets.  • Created and modified PL/SQL scripts for data conversions.  • Created database using MySQL, wrote several queries to extract data from the database.  Environment: Python, Django, MySQL, Windows, Linux, HTML, CSS, jQuery, JavaScript, Apache, Linux, Quality Centre, Ansible, PL/SQL Associate Developer Expert HR Solutions - Hyderabad, Telangana April 2014 to January 2015 Automated Quotation System has three modules divided based on the type of logins. It has a Technical Administration Module, Administration Module and User Module. The user module is basically to create projects, prospects, and quotations. There is a well-designed quotation builder and an editor to describe the quotation and to add up items to the quotation. The workflow and approval process is also inbuilt in the quotation  Responsibilities:  • Worked actively as a part of team with managers and other staff to meet the goals of the project in the stipulated time.  • Work with team of developers on Python applications for RISK management.  • Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Rewrite existing Python /Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  • Expertise in writing Constraints, Indexes, Views, Stored Procedures, Cursors, Triggers and User Defined function.  • Used JQuery for all client side Java script manipulation.  • Created unit test/regression test framework for working/new code  • Using Subversion control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  Environment: Python, Django, MySQL, Linux, HTML, XHTML, SVN, CSS, AJAX, Bugzilla, JavaScript, Apache Web Server, Django Education Bachelor of technology in technology Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University - Hyderabad, Telangana 1973 Skills DJANGO (3 years), HTML (3 years), PYTHON (4 years), MYSQL (4 years), LINUX (3 years) Certifications/Licenses Certified Amazon SysOps Administrator Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Programming Languages Python 2.7,3.3.  Web Technologies HTML, CSS, DOM, XML, KML, AJAX, JQuery, JSON.  Frameworks Django, Flask  Container Deployments UDeploy, Docker, Serena.  Application Servers HTTP web server, Apache Tomcat.  IDE's/Development Pycharm, PyDev for Eclipse.  Databases Oracle (8i, 9i, 10g, 11g), Apache Cassandra, MongoDB, MySQL, MSSQL Server.  Deployment tools Heroku, Jenkins, Maven, Amazon EC2.  Analytic Tools Adobe CQ, Google Analytics Fiddler.  Cloud Computing AWS VPC, EBS, S3, RDS, AWS EC2.  Issue Trackers Bugzilla, JIRA, Junit.  Operating Systems Windows, Red Hat Linux, Ubuntu.  Version Control SVN, CVS, Git.