Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Synnex Co • Over 5+ years of experience in Designing, Development, Deployment and maintenance of web apps based on and Django- Python platforms Spring framework in Java.  • Involved in Design, Development, Testing, Automation, Enhancement and Maintenance of Applications and Tools.  • Experience of Programming using Object Oriented Programming (OOPs concept) and software development life cycle (SDLC), architecting scalable platforms, and object oriented programming, database design and agile methodologies.  • Strong experience with Core Python and Numpy, Django, Panda.  • More than 4 years of Professional Web Apps development experience using Django and Flask inclusive of experience in UI using Javascript, AngularJS.  • Developed Views and Templates with Django view controller and template language to create an easily accessible website interface for users.  • Experience in writing the python scripts and tracking customer development.  • Experience in using frameworks and tools like Django, Flask, Django REST.  • Familiarity with implementing Model view control architecture using Django for web based applications.  • Worked with varieties of Relational Databases (RDBMS) like SQLite, MySQL and MongoDB.  • Hands on experience in Shell Scripting, SQL Server, UNIX and Linux.  • Worked on AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings.  • Experience in installing software using pip command for python libraries like Beautiful Soup, numpy, SciPy, PySide, python-twitter, RabbitMQ, Celery, matplotlib, Pandas data-frame, uuid and used PEP8 coding convention.  • Experience using GIT version control and testing deployments using Heroku.  • Experience in working with different operating systems Windows, UNIX, and Linux.  • Worked on large data sets and performance optimization of delivering large datasets by using caching mechanism.  • Experienced with server-side technologies including relational databases, RESTful services and MVC design patterns.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  • Wrote AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings. Work Experience Python Developer Synnex Co January 2017 to Present DESCRIPTION: Synnex is a is an information technology supply chain services company offering services to original equipment, Software publishers and reseller customers. Synnex distributes products and related logistics services. As a business process outsourcing and contract assembly it works with industry suppliers of IT systems, peripherals, system components, software and networking equipment    Responsibilities:  • Developed data management plane in Python to collect data on WLAN Controller, submit to SPLUNK for analysis and do root cause analysis, proactive user experience monitoring and dynamic alerting using MVC, Web Frameworks(Django), MongoDB  • Developed Python feature for parsing data from logs, alerts, network dump and create a analysis matrix to display  • Used Python REGEX to match and find data.  • Performing unit testing using PyUnit.  • Developed an autonomous continuous integration system by using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Developed application that used IP based protocols such as TCP, UDP, HTTP, SSL, for analyzing data of L2/L3 and WIFI Data for QA and testing process  • Testing, Debugging and fixing issues related to Automation framework  • Developed automated scripts using Python, Shell Scripting for data collection and transfer to databases.  • Managed and reviewed Hadoop log file and worked in analyzing SQL scripts and designed the solution for the process using PySpark.  • Understanding C++ implementation of Software Stack for debugging, implementation of framework  • Created database using MySQL, wrote several queries to extract data from database.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML, JSON data and load the data in database  Environment: Python 3.2, C++, XML, SQLALCHEMY, Flask, Django, MongoDB, Linux, Postgres, SQL, Network TCP/IP, UDP, WLAN Controller, L2/L3 Networking Python Developer American Express - Phoenix, AZ February 2016 to December 2016 Description: The project is to build the self-service business term search engine for the next generation data management so that it can be used for wide variety of cross-platforms within the organization.    Responsibilities:  • Analyzed the system requirement specifications and in client interaction during requirements specifications.  • Providing daily reports to the Development Manager and participate in both the design phase and the development phase. Utilized Agile Methodology and SCRUM Process.  • Implemented code in Python to retrieve and manipulate data.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and jQuery  • Developed dynamic web pages using Python Django frameworks and Used Django APIs for database access.  • Utilized PyUnit, the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications.  • Used jQuery and Ajax calls for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Designed and implemented an application for managing customers, purchases and invoices.  • Created RESTful http services to interact with UI.  • Worked in MySQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization and renormalization.  • End to end testing of the applications.  • Re-engineered various modules for implementing changes and created efficient system.  • Maintained program libraries, user's manuals and technical documentation.  Environment: Python, Django, RESTful, Linux, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, MySQL, Shell, JIRA, GIT Software Developer Gujarat, IN September 2014 to June 2015 DESCRIPTION: Infinity Solution is based on the bulk messaging services. It provides messaging services to all companies. Also make Web Application on Different Client Requirements and also maintain that web applications.  Responsibilities:  • Perform design, architect, implement, and messaging web application  • Developing Web Applications using Python and Django Framework.  • Create server-side API endpoints  • Set up and maintain MYSQL database server used to store web application data.  • Write Python code to add to and improve features in the web application  • Perform SEO to increase page views for public facing web pages.  • Test web application functionality and fix known issues in the application  • Write and maintain scripts to analyze business financial data.  Environments: Python 2.7, Django, DjangoRest, Flask, AngularJS, Javascript Validation, Jenkins, Dockers, Container, GitHub, Ansible, Raspberry, Raspbian, HTML5/CSS, MS SQL Server 2013, Amazon Web Service (AWS), S3, EC2, EBS, MySQL, JavaScript, PyCharm, Linux, Shell Scripting, JIRA. Jr. Python Developer Gujarat, IN January 2013 to August 2014 DESCRIPTION: Peer bits is a global IT solution company delivering web development, mobile application development and IT consulting services of any complexity to clients worldwide. Peer bits have a strong team of 50+ highly skilled IT experts. Peer bits carries trust of more than 200+ clients spread across diverse business verticals.  Responsibilities:  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website.  • Designed the User Interface using HTML, XHTML, CSS, JavaScript, and AJAX, AngularJs for the website.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  • Build SQL queries implementing functions, packages, views, triggers and tables.  Environment: Python, Django, XML, Agile SDLC, Bash script, Celery, MySQL, XHTML, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, RESTFUL web services, SOAP, PyUnit, Bootstrap, UNIX, Subversion, Atom. Skills CSS (3 years), Django (4 years), MySQL (4 years), Python (4 years), SQL (3 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:    Programming/Scripting Languages Python, UNIX / Linux Shell Scripting (Bash), C, C++, JavaScript, SQL.  Python Framework Django 1.10/1.11, Flask, Spring MVC  Databases MySQL, PostgreSQL, MS SQL, MongoDB, Oracle 10g  Web Technologies HTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, Bootstrap, XML, REST, Angular  Versioning Tools Subversion, GIT, CVS, SVN  Tools and System IDLE, PyCharm, Sublime Text, Eclipse, NetBeans, MS Visual Studio  Web servers Apache, IIS  Operating systems Microsoft Windows, OS X, Ubuntu Linux, Debian Linux, Windows Server