Python/Django Developer <span class="hl">Python</span>/Django <span class="hl">Developer</span> Santa Clarita, CA SUMMARY :     Experienced and skillful Python Developer with 6 years of IT experience in analysis, design, development, implementing and testing of various stand-alone and client-server architecture-based enterprise application software using python, Django in various Domains with various global technological companies.    CORE QUALIFICATIONS :    Extensive experience in creating web applications using Python, Django, Jinja, WSGI, PostgreSQL, SQL, MySQL and MongoDB.   Expert in data analysis and machine learning techniques with hands-on experience on various python libraries like NumPy, Pandas, SciPy and ORM libraries including Django ORM.   Skilled in working with various Python Integrated Development Environments like PyCharm, PyScripter, PyStudio and Sublime Text.   Excellent knowledge in working with different databases like MySQL, PostgreSQL, Oracle and experience in using NoSQL databases like MongoDB.   Experience in implementing Model View Control (MVC) architecture using server-side applications like Django and Flask for developing web applications.   Good knowledge in implementation of Python Best Practices (PEP-8).   Strong understanding of Object Oriented Design and Principles.   Experience in various stages of SDLC (Software Development Life Cycle), STLC (Software Testing Life Cycle) and QA methodologies from project definition to post-deployment documentation.   Proficient in writing unit testing code using Unit Test and integrating the test code with the build process.   Experience in working on different operating systems- Windows, iOS, Linux and strong development experience in Linux based operating systems such as Ubuntu.   Familiar with JSON based Rest Web Services and Amazon Web Services (AWS) such as EC2 and Simple Storage Service S3. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python/Django Developer Princess Cruises - Santa Clarita, CA December 2017 to Present Project Description :     Princess Cruises is a cruise line owned by Carnival Corporation owning 17 ships which cruise worldwide and are marketed to both American and International passengers. Currently working on a web application for the organization as a part of the backend team for Inventory Management and Market Analysis. The application would maintain the company’s inventory and warehouses, and do market analysis of their sales patterns, helping the marketing team to establish focus areas and strategies.     Key Responsibilities:     • Actively involved in requirements gathering and analysis, application development, testing and maintenance phases of the project. Also involved in object modeling for the project.   • Followed SCRUM based Agile development methodologies and delivered tasks on time during sprints.  • Involved in development of database-driven web application using Python, Django and MySQL.  • Delivered weekly project and progress reports and involved in daily SCRUM meetings.  • Implemented Django forms for data input, created Models to build databases mapping classes, created Views for backend processing and Templates to present data dynamically on the User Interface.  • Wrote Python modules to connect to MySQL database, and do CRUD operations.  • Handled RESTful services utilizing python Django REST Framework. - Inserted data from various file sources, as well as parsed XML and JSON into MySQL database using the python MySQLdb library and MySQL queries.  • Worked on complex datasets including Python's native lists, dictionaries and tuples.  • Used version control system, Git, for maintaining a consistent state throughout the application development process.  • Performed unit testing to test functionality, utilizing PyUnit, the Python unit test Framework.  • For creating use cases, bug tracking and project monitoring purposes used JIRA.  • Worked in a Linux environment and well versed with it.  • Responsible for constantly communicating the progress and issues to the higher management and making necessary changes to the application based on flexibility, scalability and security issues.    Environment: Python, Django, Git, PyUnit, JSON, XML, JIRA, Linux, Rest APIs, MySQL. Python Developer Epic Games - Larkspur, CA October 2015 to November 2017 Project Description :     Epic Games Inc. is an American video game developer that develops the Unreal Engine, a commercially available game engine which also powers their internally developed video games. The unreal engine has been named one of the most successful video game engine.     Key Responsibilities:     • Designed and coded application in an Agile environment. Involved in daily SCRUM meetings to keep track of the ongoing project status and issues.   • Project base was developed using Python, Django and MongoDB. Created python modules to connect to MongoDB using PyMongo library and performed CRUD operations.  • Designed and implement elegant and scalable REST APIs using Django Rest Framework.  • Created python scripts to parse XML and JSON data and load information for further analysis and report generation.  • Integrated with MongoDB for retrieving the data in the form of JSON using AJAX.  • Used python packages like NumPy, Pandas and Matplotlib for analysis and representation of the interpreted data.  • Used JIRA for project monitoring, bug tracking and ticket assignment.  • Deployed the application on Amazon Web Services using EC2.  • Used Slack to communicate with other team members and collaborate ideas.  • Worked in a Linux environment and involved and troubleshooting and debugging the web application.  • Used Git for version controlling of the application.    Environment: Python, Django, Numpy, Pandas, Matplotlib, Agile, PyMongo, AJAX, MongoDB, EC2, AWS, JSON. Python Developer Arlington, VA - DivvyCloud March 2014 to September 2015 Project Description :    DivvyCloud is a cloud management platform (CMP) that specializes in managing multi/hybrid cloud footprints and event-driven infrastructure. DivvyCloud offers security, compliance, and governance guardrails for public and private cloud infrastructures.    Key Responsibilities:    • Involved in different phases of SDLC such as Requirement gathering, Analysis, Development and Testing using Agile Methodology.  • Documented project specifications and involved in daily SCRUMs, bi-weekly reports and timely deliverable of sprints.  • Worked with PostgreSQL database and handled its connection with application using Django ORM.  • Used Django forms and Models for retrieval and submission of data from SQL Database.  • Created and implemented REST APIs to fetch data and query the database.  • Implemented a Ticketing System within the Web Application for assignment of tasks to specific teams of the organization.  • Responsible for developing the backend modules for employee login using Django Authentication, customer data submission and information retrieval from the database, and recording the documentations of the call.  • For version controlling of the application used SVN.  • Used PyUnit to perform unit and integration testing of the application.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the applications and involved in fine tuning of existing processes followed advance patterns and methodologies.    Environment: Python, Django, AWS, PostgreSQL, SVN, Agile. Web Developer Virtuosos Solutions Pvt. Ltd. - Punjab, India August 2012 to February 2014 Project Description :    Involved in basic front-end development for various projects undertaken by the organization for their clients.    Key Responsibilities:    • Followed Waterfall methodology for application development.  • Involved in front-end designing using HTML5, Cascading Style Sheets and JavaScript.  • Performed transition and migration of old HTML pages to HTML5 integrating with CSS3.  • Used Bootstrap for web responsiveness and clean lean designing.  • Designed graphics, logos and brochures using Adobe Photoshop and Illustrator.  • Involved in developing HTML and JavaScript for client-side presentation and data validation on the client side within the forms.  • Involved in writing SQL queries and stored procedures.  • Worked on networking projects with the organization, handling Cisco Router and Switch configurations, implementing access lists, NAT configurations, VLAN segregations/subnetting, and implementing routing protocols such as OSPF and EIGRP.  • Configured network backbone for small office setups of clients. Also worked on setting up Windows Server 2012 R2, setting up Active Directories and Group Policies for clients.  • Provided technical support to clients from time to time, remotely, working in a ticketing-system based environment.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, Ajax, JavaScript, JQuery. Education Bachelor's in Bachelor of Technology in Computer Science & Engineering Chandigarh University - Ajitgarh, Punjab April 2008 to June 2012 Skills Javascript, MySQL Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS :    • Programming Languages and Frameworks       Python, Django, Django REST, Flask, HTML/HTML5,  CSS/CSS3,Bootstrap, Unittest, Pytest  • Databases and Web Servers                            SQL, MySQL, PostgreSQL, MongoDB, AWS, Apache,  Nginx  • Systems and Servers                                        Linux, Server 2012 R2, Windows, Cisco IOS  • Software Methodologies and Version Control  Agile, SCRUM, Waterfall, SVN, GIT, BitBucket, JIRA