Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Splunk Inc San Francisco, CA Over 6 years of total IT work experience which includes professional Software Development experience using Python and Django.  • Extensive experience is creating web applications using Python, Django, Jinja, WSGI, PostgreSQL, SQL, MySQL and MongoDB.  • Effectively participated in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle models namely Agile (SCRUM) and Waterfall models. Experience in Object Modeling with Use Cases / User Stories, Sequence, Activity and Class Diagrams.  • Clear and strong understanding of Object-Oriented Programming concepts.  • Sound understanding of Django and Django REST Framework, with countable experience in Flask.  • Well familiar with the MVC/MVT code structure of different frameworks like Django.  • Experience working with Django Authentication modules with custom modifications as needed. Worked with Django CSRF and authentication middlewares.  • Ability to perform query using Django ORM. Worked with MySQL, PostgreSQL, SQLite, Oracle SQL and MongoDB.  • Used python packages like NumPy, Pandas, pySerial, Paramiko, pyExcel and Matplotlib.  • Experience building User Interface utilizing HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript and Bootstrap.  • Experience in using Version Control Systems like GIT and SVN.  • Experienced in working with AWS (Amazon Web Services) cloud platform.  • Performed Unit testing, Integration testing and generating of test cases for web applications using Python Unit Test framework and pytest.  • Experience in Linux and Windows environment. Experience with building Linux Servers and Windows 2012 R2 Server and services.  • Experience with Linux BASH scripting and basic PowerShell scripting.  • Proficient with building and managing Active Directory and Group Policy. Experience with Print Servers, Network File Servers and SCCM environment.  • Strong Networking concepts, with experience in network engineering and Cisco IOS.  • Strong analytical and problem-solving skills, ability to work on multiple tasks in a fast-paced environment independently and in a team. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Splunk Inc - San Francisco, CA October 2017 to Present Project Description:  Splunk is a multinational corporation that produces software for searching, monitoring, and analyzing machine-generated data, via a web-style interface. Currently working on an internal project for the organization for management of ongoing and upcoming projects undertaken by the organization. The purpose of the project is to create a robust Project Lifecycle Management tool that will be used by Project Managers facilitating all phases of Software Development Life Cycle.    Responsibilities:  • Actively involved in requirements gathering and analysis, application development, testing and maintenance phases of the project. Also involved in object modeling for the project.  • Followed SCRUM based Agile development methodologies and delivered tasks on time during sprints.  • Involved in development of database-driven web application using Python, Django and MySQL.  • Delivered weekly project and progress reports and involved in daily SCRUM meetings.  • Implemented Django forms for data input, created Models to build databases mapping classes, created Views for backend processing and Templates to to present data dynamically on the User Interface.  • Wrote Python modules to connect to MySQL database, and do CRUD operations.  • Handled RESTful services utilizing python Django REST Framework.  • Inserted data from various file sources, as well as parsed XML and JSON into MySQL database using the python MySQLdb library and MySQL queries.  • Worked on complex datasets including Python's native lists, dictionaries and tuples.  • Used version control system, Git, for maintaining a consistent state throughout the application development process.  • Performed unit testing to test functionality, utilizing PyUnit, the Python unit test framework.  • For creating use cases, bug tracking and project monitoring purposes used JIRA.  • Worked in a Linux environment and well versed with it.  • Prepared documentations as per organizational standards, designing, implementing, and maintaining complex database applications.  • Responsible for constantly communicating the progress and issues to the higher management and making necessary changes to the application based on flexibility, scalability and security issues. Python Developer General Electronics - Atlanta, GA September 2016 to September 2017 GA    General Electronics is a multinational corporation that operates through various segments such as healthcare, power, lighting, transportation, oil and gas to name a few. Worked on a web application for the organization, as a part of the backend team, for Inventory Management and Market Analysis. The application would maintain GE inventory in various stores and warehouses across the country, and do market analysis of their sale patterns, helping the marketing team to establish focus areas and strategies.    Responsibilities:  • Designed and coded application in an Agile environment. Involved in daily SCRUM meetings to keep track of the ongoing project status and issues.  • Project base was developed using Python, Django and MongoDB. Created python modules to connect to MongoDB using PyMongo library and performed CRUD operations.  • Designed and implement elegant and scalable REST APIs using Django Rest Framework.  • Created python scripts to parse XML and JSON data and load information for further analysis and report generation.  • Integrated with MongoDB for retrieving the data in the form of JSON using AJAX.  • Used python packages like NumPy, Pandas and Matplotlib for analysis and representation of the interpreted data.  • Used JIRA for project monitoring, bug tracking and ticket assignment.  • Deployed the application on Amazon Web Services using EC2.  • Used Slack to communicate with other team members and collaborate ideas.  • Worked in a Linux environment and involved and troubleshooting and debugging the web application.  • Used Git for version controlling of the application. Python Developer AAA - Costa Mesa, CA March 2015 to August 2016 Worked on a Customer Support Web Application as a part of the backend team. The application was built using Django framework. Purpose of the application was to provide an interface to the customer support team to record and retrieve information from the database when the call is received.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in different phases of SDLC such as Requirement gathering, Analysis, Development and Testing using Agile Methodology.  • Documented project specifications and involved in daily SCRUMs, bi-weekly reports and timely deliverable of sprints.  • Worked with PostgreSQL database and handled its connection with application using Django ORM.  • Used Django forms and Models for retrieval and submission of data from SQL Database.  • Created and implemented REST APIs to fetch data and query the database.  • Implemented a Ticketing System within the Web Application for assignment of tasks to specific teams of the organization.  • Responsible for developing the backend modules for employee login using Django Authentication, customer data submission and information retrieval from the database, and recording the documentations of the call.  • For version controlling of the application used SVN.  • Used PyUnit to perform unit and integration testing of the application.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the applications and involved in fine tuning of existing processes followed advance patterns and methodologies. UI Developer Virtuosos Solutions Pvt. Ltd October 2012 to February 2015 Involved in basic front-end development for various projects undertaken by the organization for their clients.    Responsibilities:  • Followed Waterfall methodology for application development.  • Involved in front-end designing using HTML5, Cascading Style Sheets and JavaScript.  • Performed transition and migration of old HTML pages to HTML5 integrating with CSS3.  • Used Bootstrap for web responsiveness and clean lean designing.  • Designed graphics, logos and brochures using Adobe Photoshop and Illustrator.  • Involved in developing HTML and JavaScript for client-side presentation and data validation on the client side within the forms.  • Involved in writing SQL queries and stored procedures.  • Worked on networking projects with the organization, handling Cisco Router and Switch configurations, implementing access lists, NAT configurations, VLAN segregations/subnetting, and implementing routing protocols such as OSPF and EIGRP.  • Configured network backbone for small office setups of clients. Also worked on setting up Windows Server 2012 R2, setting up Active Directories and Group Policies for clients.  • Provided technical support to clients from time to time, remotely, working in a ticketing-system based environment. Education Bachelor of Technology in Computer Science & Engineering Amity University Skills SQL (3 years), DJANGO (3 years), PYTHON (3 years), REST (3 years), BOOTSTRAP (2 years) Additional Information Technical Skills    Programming Languages and Frameworks Python, Django, Django REST, Flask, HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, Bootstrap, Unittest, Pytest  Databases and Web Servers SQL, MySQL, PostgreSQL, MongoDB, AWS, Apache, Nginx  Systems and Servers Linux, Server 2012 R2, Windows, Cisco IOS  Software Methodologies and Version Control Agile, SCRUM, Waterfall, SVN, GIT, BitBucket, JIRA