Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> • 9+ years of experience as a Python Developer, proficient coder in multiple languages and environments including Python (2.7, 3.x), REST API, C/C++, Shell, Java and SQL.  • Developed web applications and implemented Model View Control (MVC) architecture using server - side applications like Django, Flask.  • Experience in requirement analysis, system design, development and implementation of web base client/server application using Python, Django, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, AngularJS, JQuery, AJAX, XML and JSON.  • Proficient in developing complex SQL queries, Stored Procedures, Functions, Packages along with performing DDL and DML operations on the database.  • Hands on Experience in Data mining and Data warehousing using ETL Tools.  • Excellent working knowledge in UNIX and Linux shell environments using command line utilities.  • Proficient with Apache Web Server 2.0, NginX, Tomcat, Web Logic, JBoss servers, MySQL 5, CVS, UNIX Shell Script, Firefox 3.5, IE 6 Browser Compatibility Issues, IIS and Linux.  • Strong Experience in Automating Web Application Testing using Selenium WebDriver.  • Good Knowledge in efficiently using IDE Tools like Eclipse, NetBeans, Visual Studio, sublime text, Spyder, pycharm.  • Attentive to cyber security and data protection.  • Experience in NoSQL databases like MongoDB (2.6, 2.4), Orient DB.Experience in using Git, GitHub, and Amazon EC2  • Experience with Python Libraries/Packages such as HTTPLib2, Urllib2, Beautiful Soup, Py Query, Numpy, Scipy, Pickle, PyQT, PySide, wxPython, PyTables, DataFrames, SQLAlchemy, Twisted, Pygame, pyGtk, Pandas and Matplotlib.  • Expertise in Amazon Web Services (AWS) Cloud Platform which includes services like EC2, S3, VPC, ELB, Glacier, Aurora, RDS, DynamoDB, Cloud Front, Cloud Watch.  • Expertise in Production support. Provided first, second and third level support to different organizations. Used pdb, gdb and other debugging tools and deployed production hot fixes.  • Knowledge of deployment tools using Jenkins, rpm, dpkg, Python Packages.  • Experience working in both water fall and agile software methodologies.  • Participated in best practices such as code reviews, unit testing, system integration testing (SIT) and user acceptance testing (UAT)  • Performed code reviews and implemented best Pythonic programming practices  • Experience in writing test scripts, test cases, test specifications and test coverage.  • Good experience in handling errors/exceptions and debugging the issues in large scale applications.  • Experience as a Python Developer in design, development, testing, maintenance and documentation of Enterprise applications using various technologies, analyzing complex business requirements & mapping them to system specifications.  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast HTTP server and Amazon AWS architecture.  • Extensive experience in software development in inter-process communication, threading and developing high performance code.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Experienced in working on Application Servers like WebSphere, WebLogic, Tomcat, Web Servers like Apache server, NGINX and Integrated Development Environments like PyCharm, Eclipse, MyEclipse, JDeveloper and RAD.  • Review Requirement, develop technical design documents and create a prototype of the critical business application using JAVA/J2EE Initiated use of HttpUnit, Selenium IDE for testing.  • Experienced in Version controls using Git, SVN/Subversion, Perforce, Team Foundation Server, Rational ClearCase, SCM, CVS and GitHub Work Experience Sr. Python Developer Nashville, TN January 2019 to Present Responsibilities:  • Extensively used Python / Django Framework for developing backend of applications.  • Responsible for analysing various cross-functional, multi-platform applications systems enforcing Python best practices and provide guidance in making long term architectural design decisions.  • Worked with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web Services (AWS)  • Worked on angular JS framework to develop interactive websites based on client needs.  • Successfully migrated the website's main database from MySQL to PostgreSQL.  • Helped the big data analytics team with implementation of python scripts for Sqoop, spark and Hadoop batch data streaming  • Involved in Developing a Restful service using Python Flask framework.  • Actively involved in Initial software development life cycle (SDLC) of requirement gathering and also in suggesting system configuration specifications during client interaction.  • Analysis the logs data and filter required columns by logstash configuration and send it to elasticsearch.  • Handled Business logics by backend Python programming to achieve optimal results.  • Implementing admin sites to manage database information with FlaskAdmin, MySQL and SQLite.  • Involved building Hadoop platforms, maximizing business value by combining data science with big data.  • Generated various graphs for business decision making using Python matplotlib library.  • Tested various regular expression in URL Dispatchers in Django.  • Used Python scripts to automate Server Updates, ACLs and Load balancers  • Created server-monitoring daemon with Psutil, supported by Django app for analytics, which I created. Also researched big data solutions with MongoDB database.  • Creating restful web services for Catalog and Pricing with Django MVT, Jersey, MySQL, and MongoDB.  • Designed and created the database tables and wrote SQL queries to access PostgreSQL.  • Analysed and Designed workflows based on business logic.  • Designed user friendly Interface using Bootstrap framework.  • Wrote python code within the Hadoop framework to solve Natural Language Processing problems.  • Strong Expertise in working with server side technologies including databases, restful API and MVC design patterns.  • Participated in implementation, design, development and testing stages of projects.  • Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, Oracle DB, PostgreSQL, and VMWare API calls.  • Developed a portal to manage and entities in a content management system using Flask.  • Design and developed applications to be cross-browser and cross-platform compatible  • Developer multiple Angular JS controllers and configured Routes.  • Extensive code reviewing using GitHub pull requests, improved code quality, and also conducted meetings among peer.  • Followed best practices and standards throughout the development of the project, while implementing various design patterns.  • Used SOAP and Restful API for information extraction. Sr. Python Developer Medical Transcription and Billing Company - Rawalpindi, PK June 2016 to December 2018 Rawalpindi, Pak  Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed a horizontally scalable APIs using Python Flask.  • Used python modules such as requests, urllib, urllib2 for web crawling and JavaScript as well.  • Design, Develop, Test and Deploy WebSphere MQ and WMB Components to interface with different applications.  • Developed the web pages in ASP.NET using .NET framework in C#.NET and application programming interface.  • I have used AWS (Amazon Web services) in Redshift, EmR for improved efficiency of storage.  • Worked on data extraction, data mapping and data insertion during the process of data upload and migration.  • Developed a portal to manage and entities in a content management system using Flask.  • Developed an integrated framework for the crawling, parsing and indexing of heterogeneous data sources including network & local drives, email servers, LDAP/Active directories and databases.  • Used JQuery, ASP.NET, AJAX toolkit controls and CSS to enhance the performance and richness to the user interface.  • Configured WebSphere Application Server on multiple platforms for both Horizontal and Vertical clustering for Work Load Management.  • Deployments, maintenance, fix upgrades, general administration, troubleshooting and performance tuning of WebSphere.  • Worked on Python Open stack API's.  • Was involved in writing Shell scripts to automate WebSphere Admin tasks and application specific syncs / backups and other schedulers.  • Developed Job dashboard monitor UI using Django/Flask.  • Used extensively Java Script and ASP.NET AJAX for front end and Ajax framework.  • Builds logics for automated data extraction and validation. features for dashboard were developed and tested using CSS, JavaScript, Django, Bootstrap.  • Built a crawling and web-scraping framework using scrapy.  • Used RestFul Web services for integration with various monitoring devices.  • Project is built on python, django, BeautifulSoap and used other tools like jquery, javascript, bootstrap, MySQL, html, css.  • Design, model and optimize relational databases tables in MySQL.  • Modified queries, functions, cursors, triggers and stored procedures for MySQL database to improve performance, while processing data.  • Involved in designing user interactive web pages as the front end part of the web application using various web technologies like HTML, JavaScript, Angular JS, JQuery, AJAX and implemented CSS for better appearance and feel.  • Experienced in working with server side technologies including databases, restful API and MVC design patterns.  • Supported Table Management System webapps written in Django/Flask.  • Used the Django Framework to develop the application.  • Used Django APIs for database access and use JavaScript and MYSQL.  • Used Python to extract weekly hotel availability information from XML files.  • Participated in requirement gathering and worked closely with the architect in designing.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, PHP, C++, XML, CSS. Python Developer TeraData - Islamabad, PK September 2014 to May 2016 Responsibilities:  • Created or identified state-of-the-art computational mechanics algorithms that extend modeling capabilities, implement as software suitable for high-performance computers, and document their verification.  • Used UML Rational Rose to develop Use-case, Class and Object diagrams for OOA/OOD techniques.  • Built database model, Views and API's using Python for interactive web based solutions.  • Placed data into JSON files using Python to test Django websites. Used Python scripts to update the content in database and manipulate files.  • Developed web based application using Django framework with python concepts.  • Generated Python Django forms to maintain the record of online users.  • Used Django API's to access the database.  • Involved in Python OOD code for quality, logging, monitoring, and debugging code optimization.  • Skilled in using Collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  • Wrote Python modules to view and connect the Apache Cassandra instance.  • Created Unit test/ regression test framework for working/new code.  • Installed and maintained web servers Tomcat and Apache HTTP in UNIX.  • Utilized standard Python modules such as CSV, itertools and pickle for development.  • Developed efficient Angular.js for client web based application.  • Responsible for designing, developing, testing, deploying and maintaining the web application.  • Designed and developed the UI for the website with HTML, XHTML, CSS, Java Script and AJAX.  • Involved in working with Python open stock API's.  • Developed Spark Code using python for faster processing of data.  • Responsible for managing large databases using MySQL.  • Wrote and executed various MySQL database queries from Python-MySQL connector and MySQL db package.  • Used the Python's modules numpy, matplotlib, etc. for generating complex graphical data, creation of histograms etc.  • Developed and designed automation framework using Python and Shell scripting.  • Involved in debugging and troubleshooting issues and fixed many bugs in two of the main applications which are main source of data for customers and internal customer service team.  • Implemented SOAP/RESTful web services in JSON format.  • Associated with debugging the applications monitored on JIRA using Agile methodology.  • Attended many day-to-day meetings with developers and users and performed QA testing on the application.  • Experience in using containers like Docker. Software Developer Hybrid technology - Karachi, PK June 2011 to August 2014 Responsibilities:  • Involved in designing core dot net framework for enhancements and redesigning DASQL Management.  • Extensively worked on both SQL server and Web server, maintained more than three servers in house and data center including Microsoft Biz Talk server..  • Worked for with clients like Jcpenny, Lowes, Target, Bed Bath Beyond, HLC and Unger fabricks  • Created Populate application which can push the data in various servers in-house and to the data center server.  • Leading the technical team for developing a retail synthesis Web application and Windows application  • Extensively worked on integrating Fulfillment process and returns using Order Motion Web services.  • Leading the technical team for developing a Web application http://intelligentretail.Net  • Involved in full SDLC, Requirements Gathering, Analysis, Design, Implementation, Testing, Troubleshooting and Deployment of applications targeting .Net Framework 3.5, C 3.5.  • Design and Development Service Oriented Architecture SOA using WCF and .Net Framework 3.0.  • Responsible for coordinating with offshore Development team. Accountable for Code Refractor, Code Review, Code Quality Assurance.  • Involved in accessing company's business needs, translating the goals into requirements and built all back end and retail business features.  • Involved in the design and development of the EDI file management system that helps to translate EDI file into various stages and push into various databases and finally data can be utilized by the customer.  • Wrote design specs, oversaw testing, and involved the developing in various applications.  • Ensured scalability of retailer customer as the company grew, and performed extensive testing to ensure optimal performance both application and server level.  • Solely Responsible for providing new developments, technical support and enhancement to various systems of Including  • Best Practices Tagging provides a flexible way for users to group items or store based on any attribute- and then analyze that group in Retail Synthesis. Common uses for tags include product category.  • Analysis of requirements with application architect.  • Direct interaction with team and lead them according the business requirements.  • Design and development of User Interface Web Forms with users for requirements.  • Created business layer to create, retrieve, delete, update and suspend data to/from data using CADO. Net through Web services, Windows services.  • Design and developed the Crystal and SSRS report using RDL as an XML representation.  • Implement the MVC pattern in the application.  • Convert the VB.Net application in to the C application.  • Developed and updated database implementation like Stored Procedures, Functions, Triggers and Views PLSQL/TSQL.  • Design the multiple server communication with the application.  • Developed various customized report for the customer.  • Support to client and handling real time problem.  • Debugging and testing using Nunit Education Masters in Computer Sciences Arid Agriculture University November 2008 BE Punjab University 2003 to 2007 Skills DATABASES (7 years), WEB SERVICES (7 years), XML (5 years), DJANGO (4 years), MYSQL (4 years) Additional Information Technical skills  • Programming Languages: Python, JavaScript, Java, C/C++, android.  • Frameworks: Django, pyramid, Flask, Spring, Hibernate, AngularJS.  • Web Technologies: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, XML, Servlet, JSP, JSON, AJAX, San AS Node.js, JSP, XHTML, CSS3, Bootstrap, XML, , JQuery, Ajax, Web Services, REST API's.  • Web Services: REST, SOAP, WSDL.  • NoSQL Databases: Mongo DB, Redis,  • Databases: MYSQL, PostgreSQL, MS SQL, MongoDB, SQLite, Oracle  • Software/IDE: Sublime Text, PyCharm, Eclipse, Android Studio, NetBeans, MS Visio, Notepad++.  • Software Management: GIT, SVN, Maven, Gradle, CVS.  • Deployment tools: MS Azure, Heroku, Amazon Web Services (EC2, S3, EBS, ELB, SES)  • Servers: Apache Tomcat, WebSphere, JBoss, WebLogic, XAMPP  • Protocols: TCP/IP, HTTP/HTTPS, SMTP