Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Johnson & Johnson Cincinnati, OH ? 7+ Years of experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Management and Implementation of various stand-alone, client-server enterprise applications using Python, Django, C/C++, Java.  ? Vigorous knowledge in progressing web applications and effectuating Model ViewControl architecture using Django web application framework.  ? Implemented features using Python, C++ and Core JAVA.  ? Developed all business CRUD operations using RESTFUL services.  ? Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  ? Experience in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, XML, CSS, HTML5,Java Script  ? Experienced with full software development life cycle (SDLC), architecting scalable platforms, object oriented programming, database design and agile methodologies.  ? Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL,MS SQL, Oracle and mongo DB database.  ? Experience with object oriented programming (OOPS) concepts using Python, C++ and Java.  ? Worked on various applications using python integrated IDEs like Eclipse, Sublime Text, PyCharm.  ? Experienced with version control systems like Git, SVNto keep the versions and configurations of the code organized.  ? Expertise in working with different databases like MySQL, MS SQL, Oracle,mongo DB and PostgreSQL.  ? Excellent working knowledge in UNIX and Linux shell environments using command line utilities  ? Hands on experience working in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python/PHP) Architecture.  ? Good experience using various Python libraries to speed up development (libraries used: OS, Pickle, NumPy, SciPy) MySQL dB for database connectivity.  ? Experience in Python's modules Numpy, matplotlib for generating complex graphical data, creation of histograms etc.  ? Experience in Performance Tuning, Query Optimization, Client/Server Connectivity, and Database Consistency Checks, Backup and Recovery.  ? Good knowledge of web services with protocols SOAP, REST.  ? Experience in working on Application Servers like Tomcat and Web Servers like Apache server.  ? Experience in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache.  ? Experienced with Unit Testing, System Integration Testing (SIT) and User Acceptance Testing (UAT).  ? Expertise in Production support and Knowledge of deployment using Hudson and Jenkins.  ? Experience in writing test scripts, test cases, test specifications and test coverage.  ? Good amount of experience in handling errors/exceptions and debugging issues in large scale applications.  ? Worked in the team and faced challenges during the project development and production process.  ? Hands-on experience in writing and reviewing requirements, architecture documents, test plans, design documents, quality analysis and audits.  ? Excellent analytical and problem-solving skills with efficient time management and result oriented attitude.  ? Good interpersonal, very hands on attitude and approach, intrusive, Self-determined to assimilate and progress.  ? Dedicated to tasks and provide good results and a good team player with strong communication skills.  ? Willingness to work in a highly dynamic environment and ready to take up challenges. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Johnson & Johnson - Titusville, NJ May 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Involved in software development life cycle (SDLC) of tracking the requirements, gathering, analysis, detailed design, development, system testing and user acceptance testing.  ? Actively involved in developing the methods for Create, Read, Update and Delete (CRUD) in Active Record.  ? Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework by implementing MVC architecture.  ? Rewrite existing Python/Flask module to deliver certain format of data. Created script in python for calling REST APIs.  ? Deployed Django web application in Apache webserver and carpathia cloud web deployment.  ? Involved in designing user interactive web pages as the front end part of the web application using various web technologies like HTML, JavaScript, JQuery andimplement CSS for better appearance and feel.  ? Used Celery as task queue and RabbitMQ, Redis as messaging broker to execute asynchronous tasks.  ? Worked on MongoDB database concepts such as locking, transactions, indexes, Sharding, replication, schema design.  ? Managed datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL, queried MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQLdb package to retrieve information.  ? Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users.  ? Developed Wrapper in Python for instantiating multi-threaded application.  ? Deployed and monitored scalable infrastructure on Amazon web services (AWS).  ? Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture and automated AWS S3 data upload / download using python scripts.  ? Implemented monitoring and established best practices around using elastic search.  ? Generated graphical reports using python package Numpy and MatplotLib.  ? Implemented task object to interface with data feed framework and invoke database message service setup and update functionality.  ? Designed and implemented a tool called netconf (Network configuration) which automatically configures network switches by parsing XML files.  ? Managed code versioning with GitHub, Bit Bucket and deployment to staging and production servers.  ? Performed efficient delivery of code based on principles of Test Driven Development (TDD) and continuous integration to keep in line with Agile Software Methodology principles.  ? Different testing methodologies like unit testing, Integration testing, web application testing,  ? Selenium testing were performed.  ? Lock mechanisms were implemented, and the functionality of multithreading has been used.  ? Python/Django based web application, MY SQL integrations with 3rd party email, messaging, storage services.  ? Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git,Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python.  ? Designed and implemented custom scripts.  ? Extensive use of version controller GIT.  ? Tested and validated the custom scripts.  ? Delivered automated solutions for science models.  ? Managed, developed and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, Oracle DB and mongo DB.  ? Implemented configuration changes for data models.  ? Maintained and updated existing automated solutions.  ? Handled potential points of failure through error handling and communication of failure.  ? Anticipated potential parts of failure (database, communication points, file system errors).  ? Troubleshoot the process execution and worked with other team members to correct them.  ? Actively worked as a part of team with managers and other staff to meet the goals of the project in the stipulated time.  ? Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications.that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  ? Used NumPy for Numerical analysis.  ? Managed large datasets in mongo DB.  ? Extensively used Python modules such as requests, urllib, urllib2 for web crawling.  ? Developed GUI using webapp2 for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of Python code using a web browser.  ? Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  ? Debugging of custom software running on Windows and Linux operating systems is performed.  ? Knowledge in Linux Operating System.  ? Responsible for user validations on client side as well as server side.  ? Automated the existing scripts for performance calculations using NumPy.  ? Interacted with QA to develop test plans from high-level design documentation.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.4, HTML5, CSS, XML, MySQL Server, mongo DB, Embedded SQL, Eclipse, Git, GitHub, Linux. Python Developer United Airlines - Chicago, IL March 2014 to April 2016 Responsibilities:  ? Used Python, to place data into JSON files for testing Django Websites.  ? Updated and manipulated content and files by using Python scripts.  ? Experience with Django Framework in developing the application.  ? Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  ? Dealing with scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  ? Generated Python Django Forms to Record data of online users.  ? Experience inPython and Djangoin creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation.  ? Worked withFlask to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  ? Developed tools using Python, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  ? Wrote and executed various MySQL database queries from Python using Python MySQL connector and MySQL dB Package.  ? Involved development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  ? Worked on rebranding the existing web pages to client according to the type of deployment.  ? Worked on updating the existing clip board to have the new features as per the client requirements.  ? Skilled in using collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  ? Used many regular expressions to match the pattern with the existing one.  ? Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures on MySQL Server.  ? Used Maven to Validate, compile and deploy the files.  ? Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile)  ? Analyzed performance test requirements and developed test plans and have done debugging to understand test objective requirements.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django, HTML5, CSS, XML, MySQL Server, Linux, JIRA. Python Developer Covan Tech Private Limited - Hyderabad, Telangana February 2013 to December 2014 Responsibilities:  ? Created entire application using Python, Django, Oracle.  ? Developed applications especially in Linux environment and familiar with all its commands.  ? Involved in development of Web Services using REST for sending and getting data from the external interface in theXML format. Worked with Linux like OS on regular basis.  ? Improved code reuse and performance by making effective use of various design patterns.  ? Creating unit test/regression test framework for working with new code.  ? Construct SQL queries implementing functions, packages, views, triggers, and tables.  ? Involved in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support. Maintaining the scripts using the GIT version control tool.  ? Maintaining customer database using MS EXCEL.  ? Proactively worked with managers and development staff to meet project goals within expected timelines.    Environments: Python, SQL, Oracle, Linux, Agile, SVN, Eclipse. Software Developer Magma Fincorp Limited - Hyderabad, Telangana August 2010 to 2013 Responsibilities:  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  • Used Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Designed and developed data management system using MS SQL.  • Rewrite existing Java, C++ application in Python.  • Designed the architecture of the hardware environments and methodology of the code.  • Experience in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM Process.  • Involved in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Worked with Numpy for Numerical analysis for Insurance premium.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using python.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  • Wrote SQL, MS SQL queries for implementing functions, packages, views, triggers, and tables.  • Used GIT version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Handling the day to day issues and fine tuning the applications for enhanced performance.  • Worked in development of applications especially in Linux environment and familiar with all its commands.    Environment: Python, MS SQL Server, Linux, GIT and Apache Web Server Education Bachelor's Skills deployment. (7 years), Git (5 years), Linux (7 years), Python (7 years), SQL (7 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:    Languages Python, C, C++, Core Java  Markup Languages HTML5, CSS, XML, JSON  Frameworks Django, Flask  Protocols TCP/IP, HTTP/HTTPS, SOAP  Version Control Tools Subversion and GIT  Scrum Methodologies Waterfall and Agile    Operating Systems Windows95/98/NT/2000/XP/7/8/10, Unix, Linux (CentOS and Ubuntu)  Databases MySQL, MS SQL,Oracle, Mongo dB  Deployment Tools Jenkins, Hudson  IDE Tools PyCharm, Eclipse, PyStudio  Web Servers Apache, Tomcat, HTTP Server  Bug Reporting Tools JIRA, Bugzilla and Collab Net  MS Office Tools MS Word, MS PowerPoint, MS Excel