Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Safeway Inc Phoenix, AZ ? Around 6 years of IT experience as a Web/Application Developer and designing databases using Python and Django MVT Framework.  ? Build User Interface utilizing HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, Bootstrap and AJAX.  ? Good experience in developing web applications and implementing Model View Template (MVT) architecture using Python, Django and Linux scripting.  ? Sound knowledge and experience in Object Oriented Programming and programming concept using REST API's and Web services in Python.  ? Sound knowledge of relational databases including MySQL, PostgreSQL, Oracle SQL and non-relational database using Mongodb.  ? Having working knowledge of Amazon AWS infrastructure and services using S3, EC2 and VPC.  ? Used various Python libraries for data analytics and extracting data using Pandas, Pyexcel, NumPy, Pickle and Pytable.  ? Experienced in working with various stages of Software Development Life Cycle(SDLC), Software Testing Life Cycle(STLC ) and QA methodologies from project definition to post-deployment documentation.  ? Familiar with Django's ORM library.  ? Experience in writing test scripts, test cases, test specifications and test coverage and implemented the unit tests using Python Unit Test (PyUnit) library.  ? Experience of dealing with various development methodologies like Waterfall, Scrum, and Agile.  ? Worked on various IDE: Pycharm, Sublime and Python IDLE.  ? Experience in working with various version control systems like GIT and SVN.  ? Good documentation skills with the ability to meet deadlines and can work in a cross functional environment.  ? Experienced with full software development life cycle of the projects including Design, Development and Deployment, Testing, Implementation and Support. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Safeway Inc - Phoenix, AZ December 2017 to Present Project Description:   Safeway, Inc. is an American supermarket chain. The project is to develop an application for asset management team that keeps track of assets concerning their maintenance, issued to, and replacement according to work orders created. The application was developed for client to get the most value out of their assets and to reduce the cost of buying and maintaining their assets.    Responsibilities:  ? Developed a Python based web application using Python scripting for data processing, Django framework, MySQL for the database, and HTML/CSS.  ? Involved in requirement gathering, specifications and designing phases of the project.  ? Involved in AGILE/SCRUM based development environment, like having story time, sprint planning, sprint review and retrospective.  ? Developed views and templates with Python and Django view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly Website interface.  ? Used Django Forms to create work orders and inventory entries.  ? Wrote Python scripts to perform CRUD operations on database efficiently.  ? Experience in writing Subqueries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL database.  ? Actively involved in analysis of the system requirements specifications and involved in client interaction during requirements specifications.  ? Worked with Django ORM library.  ? Added support for Amazon AWS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  ? Used Git as version control system.  ? Implemented RESTful web services in JSON format.  ? Wrote Python scripts to parse JSON documents and load data in MySQL.  ? Uses Jira for ticket assignment and bug tracking.  ? Used Jenkins for continuous deployment.    Environment: Python, Django, AWS, JSON, Restful API, Jira, Jenkins, MySQL. Python Developer US Bank - Cincinnati, OH September 2016 to November 2017 Projection Description:   US Bank is an American multinational investment bank and financial services company that offers solutions to the multinational companies, corporations, governments and institutions. The project was to provide an interface for the customer support team to talk to the database and provide assistance to the customers.    Responsibilities:  ? Developed applications using Python Django Framework.  ? Generated Django Forms and Models to record and verify data of customers and users.  ? Designed and developed the app using Django framework and web technologies such as HTML, CSS, AJAX and Bootstrap.  ? Used Django Models for database creation and CRUD operations.  ? Used Views for backend processing and display through templates.  ? Experienced Django Debugging Toolbar to analyze query timing and make them faster.  ? Deployed application on Amazon Web Services using EC2.  ? Provided bi-weekly work reports to the supervisor and participated in daily SCRUM meetings.  ? Utilized PyUnit, for all Python applications.  ? Worked with Oracle SQL database and handled its connection with application using Django ORM.  ? Used SVN for version control.  ? Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the applications and involved in fine tuning of existing processes followed advance patterns and methodologies.    Environment: Python, Django, AWS, EC2, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, PyUnit, SVN, CRUD. Python Developer BFG Enterprise Services - Markham, IL January 2015 to August 2016 Project Description:   The project was to develop Project life cycle management application that keeps track of all ongoing and upcoming projects. The application facilitated with all phases of System Development Life Cycle.    Responsibilities:  ? Implemented project using Agile Scrum methodology. Involved in daily stand up meetings.  ? Writing modules in Python to connect to MongoDB with PyMongo and doing CRUD operations with MongoDB.  ? Generate Django Forms and Models to record and validate data of new projects.  ? Communicating and sharing ideas with other team developers using Jira.  ? Built unit test framework using Python pyunit test framework for unit testing.  ? Actively involved in analysis of the system requirements and specifications.  ? Design and implement elegant and scalable REST APIs using Django Rest Framework.  ? Extensively used Git as a source control repository.  ? Integrated with MongoDB for retrieving the data in the form of JSON using AJAX.  ? Used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  ? Collaborated with other developers to handle complicated issues related to deployment of applications.  ? Used Jira for ticket assignment and bug tracking.    Environment: Python, Pyunit, PyMongo, MongoDB, Unit Testing, JSON, Ajax, Git, CURD. UI/Backend Developer E-infodes - Punjab , India June 2013 to December 2014 Project Description:   E-infodes offers solutions to diverse range of industries including software design and development and specialized in website, application development.    Responsibilities:  ? Designing mobile search application system requirements and coded back-end in Django/ Python.  ? Implemented code in Python to retrieve and manipulate data.  ? Handled the security content and issues.  ? Created many web applications using HTML, CSS and Javascript.  ? Involved in designing mobile search application system requirements and coded back-end and front-end in Django/ Python.  ? Designed the HTML based web pages for displaying the reports.  ? Interactive in providing change requests, trouble reports and requirements collection with the client.  ? As a team member, I was involved in design of Employee Management software called HRMS.  ? Maintained the client-server environment and implemented the updates successfully.  ? Created and modified required views/tables/triggers using SQL and worked on database bug fixes.  ? Experience solving the compatibility issues.  ? Developed Detail Design and Technical Design Document, Designed unit Test Plans.    Environment: Python, Django, Javascript, HTML, CSS, SQL Education Bachelor of Computer Science in Computer Science Punjabi University 2013 Skills Javascript, CSS, HTML 5, Git, jQuery, MySQL