Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Granular • Over 6 years of experience as an Analysis, Design, Development, Management and Implementation of various stand-alone, client-server enterprise applications.  • Good knowledge in various stages of SDLC (Software Development Life Cycle), Software Testing Life Cycle (STLC) and QA methodologies from project definition to post-deployment documentation.  • Experienced in MVW frameworks like Flask/Django, Angular JS, Java Script, JQuery and Node.js.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, PHP, C++, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, JQuery, MVC3, Bootstrap, RESTful, RUBY and AJAX.  • Very good experience with cloud platforms like Amazon AWS.  • Strong experience of software development in Python (libraries used: libraries- Beautiful Soup, Numpy, Scipy, matplotlib, Python-twitter, Pandas Dataframe, Networkx, Urllib2, MySQLdb for database connectivity) and IDEs - sublime text, Pycharm and emacs.  • Good knowledge of web services with protocols SOAP and REST.  • Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  • Experienced in working on Application Servers like WebSphere, WebLogic, Tomcat, Web Servers like Apache server, NGINX and Integrated Development Environments like PyCharm, Eclipse, MyEclipse, JDeveloper and RAD.  • Good idea about testing tools like Bugzilla and JIRA.  • Experienced in requirement gathering, Use case development, Business Process flow, Business Process Modeling: extensively used UML to develop various use cases, class diagrams and sequence diagrams.  • Experience in managing datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  • Experience implementing Object Oriented Python, Hash Tables (Dictionaries) and Multithreading, Django, MY-SQL.  • Having experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Highly motivated, dedicated, quick learner and have proven ability to build and manage a team and work individually.  • Strong analytical and problem-solving skills, always striving for new knowledge. A person with multi-tasking and organizational skills and high ethical standards.  • Excellent communication and interpersonal skills, ability to work independently as well as part of an integrated team. Work Experience Python Developer Granular - Johnston, IA February 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Participated in the complete SDLC process.  • Developed monitoring and notification tools using Python.  • Utilize PyUnit, the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications.  • Worked on UI using HTML5, CSS3 and Java Scripts.  • Implemented the presentation layer with HTML, DHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Rewrite existing Java application in Python module to deliver certain format of data.  • Created Business Logic using Python to create Planning and Tracking functions.  • Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users.  • Wrote Python routines to log into the websites and fetch data for selected options.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Used Jenkins for continuous integration services.  • Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis.  • Used the Django Framework to develop the application.  • Build all database mapping classes using Django models.  • Used Python SNMP for automating Network Management in Windows server.  • Worked with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services (AWS).  • Involved in AJAX driven application by invoking web services/API and parsing the JSON response.  • Developed internal auxiliary web apps using Python Flask framework with Angular.js and Bootstrap CSS / HTML framework.  • Set up rules and policies with a Node.js/ Python back end.  • Developed complex web, middleware, and back end systems in Python, SQL and Perl for Linux and Windows.  • Created a Git repository and added the project to GitHub.  • Utilized Agile process and JIRA issue management to track sprint cycles.  • Troubleshooting backup and restore problems and performed day-to-day trouble shooting for the end users on Linux based servers.  • Involved in Installation and setting up Python/Linux test beds.  • Wrote validation scripts in SQL to validate data loading.  • Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Organizing and configuring web application through YAML by creating and configuring app.yaml  • Supported user groups by handling target-related software issues/service requests, identifying/fixing bugs.  • Used data types like dictionaries, tuples and object oriented concepts based inheritance features for making complex algorithms of networks.  • Using Github pages to host static website and Github for version control  • Development of Automation Scripts for configuration of network devices using Python and ANSIBLE.  Environment: Python, Java, PyUnit, Pandas, HTML, DHTML, AJAX, CSS, JavaScript, Django, Jenkins, Amazon Web Services (AWS), JSON, REST, Angular.js, Bootstrap, Node.js, Git, JIRA, Perl, ansible, SQL, Agile, Windows and Linux. Python Developer Cigna Health Care - Denver, CO February 2016 to January 2017 Responsibilities:  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web based solution.  • Performed testing using Django's Test Module.  • Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  • Expertise in client scripting language and server side scripting languages like JavaScript, JQuery, JSON, DOJO, bootstrap, Node.js, Angular.js.  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Worked on Python Open stack API's.  • Carried out various mathematical operations for calculation purpose using python libraries.  • Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  • Worked with JSON based REST Web services.  • Used Maven, Rake and Jenkins for doing builds and deployments.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  • Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Developed SQL Queries, Stored Procedures, and Triggers Using Oracle, SQL, PL/SQL.  • Utilized Agile process and JIRA issue management to track sprint cycles.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Supported user groups by handling target-related software issues/service requests, identifying/fixing bugs.  • Wrote CloudFormation Templates in YAML and JSON  • Development of Scripts for CICD using Virtual machines, Docker, python and Yaml.  • Used data types like dictionaries, tuples and object oriented concepts based inheritance features for making complex algorithms of networks.    Environment: Python, Django, JavaScript, JQuery, JSON, DOJO, Bootstrap, Node.js, Angular.js, HTML, DHTML, AJAX, CSS, Open Stack API, Panda, Maven, Jenkins, Rake, JIRA, Agile, SQL, Windows. Python Developer(off shore) Jefferson Bank - San Antonio, TX January 2015 to September 2015 Responsibilities:  • Participated in the development of application architecture and blueprints to define application components, platforms, interfaces and development tools.  • Updated site with JavaScript, JQuery, Python, Django, and SQL.  • Created backend database T-SQL stored procedures. Created and updated complex views and stored procedures in MySQL.  • Created a Git repository and added the project to GitHub.  • Exported/Imported data between different data sources using SQL Server Management Studio  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Used Pandas package to retrieve and analyze data.  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures on MYSQL.  • Utilized Agile process and JIRA issue management to track sprint cycles.  • Participated in multiple sprint cycles, addressing requirements for UI development.  • Used decorators, list comprehensions, functional programming, unit tests, multiple staging environments, and global team remote collaboration.    Environment: Python, Django, C++, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, Github, MySQL, Apache Web Server and Linux. Python Developer(Off shore) Sun Trust Bank - Atlanta, GA November 2013 to December 2014 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for analyzing various cross-functional, multi-platform applications systems enforcing python, best practices and provide guidance in making long term architectural design decisions.  • Designed and developed Use-Case Diagrams, Class Diagrams and Object Diagrams using UML Rational Rose for OOA/OOD techniques.  • Involved in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Debugging Software for Bugs.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python.  • Developed internal auxiliary web apps using Python Flask framework with CSS / HTML framework.  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile).  • Used Python and Django to interface with the JQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Built development environment with JIRA/Git.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Data Services and Platform Engineering- Developing cost optimization solutions in cloud scripting for auto-tagging and alerts/deletion of unused instances with AWS services, Tagging, Lambda, Cloudwatch, Cloudtrail, Ansible, YAML etc.    Environment: JAVA, J2EE, HTML, CSS, Shell Scripting, PL/SQL, Oracle, Linux and Windows. Python Developer Q Burst Technologies, pvt, Ltd June 2013 to October 2013 Responsibilities:  • Built web based and workstation based application for Customers to review their trades and confirm affirm them within allotted time using JSF 2.0, spring, Hibernate JavaScript and AJAX.  • Created Data tables to display customer information and add, delete, update customer records using Python, MySQL, and XHTML.  • Used PyQt for the functionality filtering of columns helping customers to effectively view their transactions and statements. Implemented navigation rules for the application and page outcomes, written controllers using annotations.  • Written queries in HQL and Native SQL and criteria API.  • Added the navigations and paginations and filtering columns and adding and removing the desired columns for view utilizing Python based GUI components.  • Implemented marshalling and UN marshalling XML to HTML and HTML to XML.  • Worked on RUP development environment and used Rational ClearCase for versioning.  • Used JQuery for selecting particular DOM elements when parsing HTML.  • Developed SQL Queries, Stored Procedures, and Triggers Using Oracle 9i SQL and PL/SQL.  • Actively participated in System Testing, production support and maintenance/patch deployments.    Environment: Python, HTML, JavaScript, Ajax, PL/SQL, and Oracle SQL Developer. Skills HTML (4 years), PYTHON (4 years), SQL (4 years), CSS (4 years), DJANGO (4 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:  Languages Python, Java, Shell Script, SQL, PHP  Python Framework Flask/Django, Angular JS, Java Script, JQuery and Node.js.  Databases MS SQL, MySQL, Oracle  Web Technologies XML, CSS, HTML 5, DHTML, JavaScript, JQuery, MVC 3, Bootstrap, RESTful, RUBY, AJAX  Web Services SOAP, REST  Protocols TCP/IP  Servers Apache server, NGINX    Methodologies Agile, Scrum  Operating Systems Window, UNIX, Linux