Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - Multi Plan Edison, NJ • 10 Years of Experience in developing web-based applications using Python 3.x/2.7, Django 1.8.  • Good experience of software development in Python (libraries used: Beautiful Soup, numpy, scipy, matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas dataframe, network, urllib2, MySQL dB for database connectivity) and IDEs - sublime text, Spyder, pycharm, emacs.  • Experience of software development with Python and various libraries of Python, python-twitter, Pandas, Dataframe, MySQLdb for database connectivity), Regular expression, File IO etc.  • Experienced in Design, Development and support of Data warehousing solutions for Extraction, Transformation and Loading (ETL) mechanisms.  • Expertise in handling web applications - UI security, logging, backend services.  • Good experience in developing web applications implementing MVT/MVC architecture using Django, Flask, Webapp2 and spring web application frameworks.  • Experienced in MVC frameworks like Django, Angular.JS, JavaScript, JQuery and Node.js.  • Experienced in web applications development using Django/ Python, Flask/ Python and Node.js, Angular.js, DOJO, JQuery while using HTML/CSS/JS for server-side rendered applications.  • Worked closely with designer, tightly integrating Flash into the CMS with the use of Flashvars stored in the Django models. Also created XML with Django to be used by the Flash.  • Good Experience in Linux Bash scripting and following PEP Guidelines in Python.  • Worked with NOSQL databases MongoDB, Cassandra.  • Using Django evolution and manual SQL modifications was able to modify Django models while retaining all data, while site was in production mode.  • Experienced in monitoring, developing and transforming data using SQL Server Integration Service (SSIS) and SQL Server Analysis Service (SSAS).  • Experienced with databases using ORMs/DOMs for integrating with MySQL, Postgres, Neo4J, MongoDB, and Cassandra SQLite. Also, experienced with writing custom queries through database connectors.  • Expertise in establishing database connections for Python by configuring packages like MySQL- Python.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  • Architecture, size (Capacity planning), Data modeling, implementation and support Cassandra Clusters including install, configure and upgrade DSE v3/4 (Cassandra v 1/2.x) and Ops Center v 4.x/5.x on Bare metal and Cloud including AWS (Amazon Web Services).  • Configure backup, alerts, repairs and monitoring of Cassandra clusters, in conjunction with Nagios/Opscenter and custom scripts.  • Extensive experience in designing MongoDB multi-sharded cluster and monitoring with MMS.  • Extensive experience in deploying, managing and developing MongoDB clusters.  • Good experience in Hadoop technologies like Apache Spark, Scala, and SparkSQL.  • Good Knowledge of web services using SOAP and REST protocols.  • Good knowledge of version control software - CVS, GitHub.  • Experienced with Batch systems scheduling and processing. Extensively used Python Celery for dynamic task scheduling and Celery Beat for cron-like tasks.  • Having good experience in SALTStack and Puppet for Deployment on Multiple platforms.  • Experience in working with deployment tools like Microsoft Azure, Heroku and Jenkins.  • Experience of Build & Deployment phase and usage of Continuous Integration (CI/CD) tools, build configuration, change history for releases, Maintenance of build system, automation & smoke test processes, managing, configuring, and maintaining source control management systems.  • Good experience in Shell Scripting, SQL Server, UNIX and Linux, Open stock and Expertise python scripting with focus on DevOps tools, CI/CD and AWS Cloud Architecture.  • Deployed production site using Apache 2.0 with mod_ python.  • Worked on Docker container snapshots, attaching to a running container, removing images, managing director structures and managing container.  • Good Network understanding, setup and configure Firewalls, TCP/IP, DNS, DHCP, and Switches.  • Experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Excellent experience with Python development under Linux OS (Debian, Ubuntu, SUSE Linux, Red Hat Linux, Fedora). Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Python Developer Multi Plan - New York, NY July 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Contributed to development of security policies and processes.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Refactor Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Development of Python APIs to dump the array structures in the Processor at the failure point for debugging.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Written functional Php unit test cases for Data Layer, and Search server classes using Django, Curl, XML, JSON, REST base services and MongoDB.  • Creating restful web services for Catalog and Pricing with Django MVT, Jersey, MySQL, and MongoDB.  • Interact with backend using Java and Hibernate Framework.  • Involved in Coding of Enterprise Java Beans, which implements business rules, and business logic.  • Involved in developing the Java classes and JavaBeans.  • Representation of the system in hierarchy form by defining the components, subcomponents using Python and developed set of library functions over the system based on the user needs.  • Used Selenium Library to write fully functioning test automation process that allowed the simulation of submitting different requests from multiple browsers to web application.  • Involved in the development of guidelines/checklist for streamlining of activities for Data Management (DM) in study step-up to close-out phase.  • Tracked status and progress of data management for allocated projects/trials  • Represented data management and coordinated with internal/external teams.  • Played a key role in the Data Quality Improvement by reducing data errors.  • Created Data tables utilizing PyQt to display customer and policy information and add, delete, update customer records.  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation.  • Utilize in-depth knowledge of Technical experience in LAMP and other leading-edge products and technology in conjunction with industry and business skills to deliver solutions to customer.  • Worked PHP as a server side scripting language, for web pages.  • Used PHP to write dynamically generated pages quickly.  • Worked on middle tier and persistence layer. Created service and model layer classes and Value objects/POJO to hold values between java classes and database fields.  • Representation of the system in hierarchy form by defining the components, subcomponents using Python and developed set of library functions over the system based on the user needs.  • Used REST and SOAPUI for testing web service for server side changes.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.8, Celery, MongoDB, MySQL, AJAX, SOAP, REST, JQuery, JavaScript, Bootstrap, PyCharm, Apache Spark, AWS (EC2, S3, RDS), Google Cloud. Sr. Python Developer American Express - New York, NY May 2016 to July 2018 Responsibilities:  • Developed Architecture for Parsing applications to fetch the data from different services and transforming to store in different formats.  • Developed parsers for Extracting data from different sources of web services and transforming to store in various formats such as CSV, Database files, HDFS storage, etc. then to perform analysis.  • Parsers written in Python for extracting useful data from the design data base. Used Parsekit (Enigma.io) framework for writing Parsers for ETL extraction.  • Implemented Algorithms for Data Analysis from Cluster of Web services.  • Worked with lxml to dynamically generate SOAP requests based on the services. Developed custom Hash-Key (HMAC) based algorithm in Python for Web Service authentication.  • Worked with ReportLab PDF library to dynamically generate the PDF documents with Images and data retrieved from various sources of Web services.  • Built the Web API on the top of Django framework to perform REST methods. Used MongoDB and MySQL databases in Web API development. Developed database migrations using SQLAlchemy Migration.  • Generated graphical reports using python package Numpy and matPlotLib.  • Usage of advance features like pickle/unpickle in python for sharing the information across the applications.  • Managed datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL, queried MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL db package to retrieve information.  • Utilized Python libraries wxPython, numPY, Twisted and matPlotLib.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Used Wireshark, live http headers, and Fiddler2 debugging proxy to debug the Flash object and help the developer create a functional component. The PHP page for displaying the data uses AJAX to sort and display the data. The page also outputs data to .csv for viewing in Microsoft Excel.  • Used Python based GUI components for the front-end functionality such as selection criteria. Administration of dedicated collocated RHEL 4 machine and configured complex Apache configuration files.  • Added support for Amazon AWSS3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Writing Python scripts with Cloud Formation templates to automate installation of Auto scaling, EC2, VPC, and other services.  • Used Docker containers for development and deployment.  • Familiar with UNIX / Linux internals, basic cryptography & security.  • Developed multiple spark batch jobs in Scala using Spark SQL and performed transformations using many APIs and update master data in Cassandra database as per the business requirement.  • Written Spark-Scala scripts, by creating multiple udf's, spark context, Cassandra sql context, multiple API's, methods which support dataframes, RDD's, dataframe Joins, Cassandra table joins and finally write/save the dataframes/RDD's to Cassandra database.  • As part of the POC migrated the data from source systems to another environment using Spark, SparkSQL.  • Developed and implemented core API services using Python with spark.  • Created dataframes in particular schema from raw data stored at Amazon S3 using PySpark.  • Used PySpark Data frame for creation of table and performing analytics over it.  • Using Jenkins AWS Code Deploy plugin to deploy to AWS.  • Involved in Continuous Integration (CI) and Continuous Delivery (CD) process implementation using Jenkins along with Shell script.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.    Environment: Python 3.x, Parsekit (Enigma.io), Django, Flask, lxml, SUDS, HMAC, pandas, Numpy, matplotlib, MongoDB, MySQL, SOAP, REST, PyCharm, Docker, AWS (EC2, S3). Python Developer GE Healthcare Information Technologies - Chicago, IL April 2014 to May 2016 Responsibilities:  • Used Django framework for application development.  • Assisted in reduction of cost and optimization of supplier selection for the CRM Applications. Also used methods for cross application use using the Class Builder and Object-Oriented programming. Generated an API Reference guide to help application developers for creating the software applications to store data using DDN S3 (compatible with Amazon S3 API) or DDN OpenStack Swift API calls.  • Ensured high quality data collection and maintaining the integrity of the data.  • Cleaned data and processed third party spending data into maneuverable deliverables within specific formats with Excel macros and python libraries. Used TDD (Test driven development) methodology.  • Used several python libraries like wxPython, numPY and matPlotLib.  • Was involved in environment, code installation as well as the SVN implementation.  • Build all database mapping classes using Django models and Cassandra.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Developed and tested websites using MEAN (MongoDB, Express, AngularJS, Node.js) stack.  • Have been using High charts and D3.js for creating charts of payment section.  • Utilized MEAN stack, REST design pattern, MVC framework and Single Page Applications framework based on AngularJS.  • Running load/endurance tests using Vugen, ALM, and controller, server monitoring, analysis using Dynatrace, UNIX putty, SQL logs and other tools and reporting the performance. Analyzing errors and exceptions using putty logs (UNIX), etc.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Developed, tested and debugged software tools utilized by clients and internal customers.  • Coded test programs and evaluated existing engineering processes.  • Designed and configured database and backend applications and programs.  • Performed research to explore and identify new technological platforms.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.7, Cassandra, Rabbit MQ, Vugen, Soap UI, Node.JS, REST API, Bash, PyDev, Spyder, Agile. Python Developer Express Scripts - St. Louis, MO March 2012 to April 2014 Responsibilities:  • Translated the customer requirements into design specifications and ensured that the requirements translate into software solution.  • Application was based on service oriented architecture and used Python 2.5, Django 1.5, JSF 2, Spring 2, Ajax, HTML, CSS for the frontend.  • Involved in creating Servlets and Java Server Pages (JSP), which route submittals to the appropriate Enterprise Java Bean (EJB) components and render retrieved information using Session Facade.  • Designed the front end of the application using Python, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON and JQuery. Worked on backend of the application, mainly using Active Records.  • Involved in the design, development and testing phases of application using AGILE methodology.  • Developed and designed an API (RESTful Web Service).  • Used the Python language to develop web-based data retrieval systems.  • Designed and maintained databases using Python and developed Python based API (RESTful Web Service) using Flask, SQLAlchemy and PostgreSQL/PostGIS.  • Developed web sites using Django, Python, XHTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Developed and designed e-mail marketing campaigns using HTML and CSS.  • Tested and implemented applications built using Python.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Selenium, ROBOT framework, Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Created complex dynamic HTML UI using jQuery.  • Automated Regression analysis for determining fund returns based on index returns ( Python/Excel).  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures, trigger and function on MYSQL.  • Developed shopping cart for Library and integrated web services to access the payment.  • Used Php language on lamp server to develop page.  • Developed server based web traffic statistical analysis tool using Flask, Pandas.  • Implemented and tested python based web applications interacting with MySQL.  • Developed dynamic interaction page on .net MSvisualbasic-2014, using SQL developer tools.  • Simple web app for reviewing sitcoms that gives users the ability to view, add, review, up/down vote, search, etc.  • Performed joins, group by and other operations in MapReduce using Python.  • Handled importing of data from various data sources, performed transformations using Hive, MapReduce, and loaded data into HDFS.  • Wrote MapReduce code to make un-structured data into semi- structured data and loaded into Hive tables.  • Supported MapReduce Programs those are running on the cluster.  • Executed queries using Hive and developed MapReduce jobs to analyze data.  • Involved in doing AGILE (SCRUM) practices and planning of sprint attending daily agile (SCRUM) meetings and SPRINT retrospective meetings to produce quality deliverables within time.    Environment: Linux, Python 2.7, Mod Python, Perl, PHP, MySQL, JavaScript, Ajax, Shell Script, HTML, CSS Python Developer Jobspring Partners - Malvern, PA February 2010 to March 2012 Responsibilities:  • Worked with team of developers on Python applications for RISK management.  • Designed the database schema for the content management system.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Experienced Python on LINUX for execution.  • Wrote Python routines to log into the websites and fetch data for selected options.  • Performed testing using Django's Test Module.  • Web pages on the internet are generated by servers running LINUX.  • Exported/Imported data between different data sources using SQL Server Management Studio. Maintained program libraries, users' manuals and technical documentation.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Successfully migrated all the data to the database while the site was in production.  • Implemented the validation, error handling and caching framework with Oracle Coherence cache.  • Worked on scripts for setting up the discovery client with attribute data.  • Worked on scripts (granite reference data scripts) for setting up adapter attributes in granite system.    Environment: Python, Django, Oracle, Eclipse, MySQL, Linux, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript Python Developer Quantitative Systems - New York, NY January 2009 to February 2010 Responsibilities:  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) such as requirements gathering, modelling, analysis, design and development.  • Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, CSS and JavaScript  • Developed entire front-end and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django module to deliver certain format of data.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Generated Use case diagrams, Activity flow diagrams, Class diagrams and Object diagrams in the design phase.    Environment: Python, Django, Shell scripting, PL/SQL, Oracle, SVN, Quality Center, Windows, Perl. Education Bachelor's Skills database (8 years), Django (10+ years), Mysql (10+ years), Python (10+ years), Web services (7 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:  Primary Languages: Python 3.x/2.7, Core Java, C, C++  Python Libraries: Beautiful Soup, numpy, scipy, matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas dataframe, urllib2  Frameworks: Flask, Parsekit (Enigma.io), Bootstrap, Django, Node.JS, PyJamas, Pyramid, Hibernate  Database: Sqlite3, MSSQL, MySQL, MongoDB, Oracle 11g  IDE's: PyCharm, Eclipse, NetBeans, MS Visual Studio, PyDev, RIDE  Servers: Apache Tomcat, WebSphere, JBoss, WebLogic, XAMPP  Deployment tools: MS Azure, Heroku, Amazon Web Services (EC2, S3, EBS, ELB, SES)  Web Technologies: HTML, CSS, DHTML, XML, Java Script  Operating systems: Windows, Mac, Fedora Linux, Red hat Linux  SDLC Methods: SCRUM, Agile  Testing Frameworks: Junit, TestNG, ROBOT, JXL, JTest  Bug Tracking Tools: Axosoft, JIRA, Bugzilla, Rational Clearquest  Version Control: VSS, SVN, GitHub, Git