Python developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">developer</span> Python developer - Galaxe Solutions, NJJun NJ • Over 5years of experienced skilled Python with proven expertise in using new tools and technical developments to drive improvements throughout entire software development lifecycle.  • Have experience of software development in Python(libraries used: libraries- BeautifulSoup, numpy, scipy, matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas, networkx, urllib2, MySQLdb, jinja2, os, json, django  • Pythonista at heart, constantly seeking the most concise, and efficient way to write code with a critical eye on complexity, size and readability Active Participation in full development life cycle (requirements, design, architecture, development, testing).  • Skilled in building good user interface using various front end technologies such as HTML, CSS, JavaScript  • Good knowledge of server Apache Tomcat, Web logic  • Extensive development experience using different IDE's - Eclipse, Toad and tools - Clear Quest  • Experienced in working with different databases - Oracle, MySQL.  • Experienced in various types of testing such as Unit testing, Integration testing, User acceptance testing, Functional testing.  • Have good idea about development tools like Bugzilla, Jira, Confluence, Axosoft.  • Proven ability to analyze and understand complex systems, take them apart, and put them back together again, only better, and with fewer lines of code.  • SQL and PL/SQL programming, developing complex code units, database triggers and using the latest features to optimize performance (Bulk Binds, Materialized views, Inline views, Global Temporary Tables).  • Involved in the issue resolution and Root Cause Analysis.  • Have knowledge of Airflow for building data infrastructure.  • Have experience in Django, FlaskShell Scripting, SQL Server, Unix and Linux.  • Good Exposure in maintaining various version controls systems such as SVN (Centralized Version Control System) and GIT (Distributed Version Control System).  • Experience in Agile development techniques.  • Hands-on experience in writing and reviewing requirements, architecture documents, test plans, design documents, quality analysis and audits.  • Excellent analytical and problem solving skills and ability to work on own besides being a valuable and contributing team player. Work Experience Python developer Galaxe Solutions, NJJun 2015 to Present Responsibilities:  • Responsible for the design and development of a web-based, distributed risk modeling application built to run on the global Manufacturing proprietary platform across multiple lines of business. Participated in the development of application architecture and blueprints to define application components, platforms, interfaces and development tools.  • Worked for Business Intelligence and Monitoring Replay (BIMR), Identifying and capturing the user experiencesand providing the analytics up on the user navigation pages.  • Responsible for analyzing various cross-functional, multi-platform applications systems enforcing python, best practices and provide guidance in making long term architectural design decisions.  • Involved in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Worked with AdobeAnalytics tracking tool like DTM ( Dynamic Tag Management), Omniture  • Identifying the render html pages and used adobe catalyst for capturing.  • Development using Object-Oriented Python, NumPy, Pandas and in-house libraries, Web interface development, Data management on a terabyte scale.  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile).  • Worked extensively with Bootstrap, Javascript, and jQuery to optimize the user experience.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Designed and implemented Sandra NoSQL database read/write/search function.    • Built development environment with JIRA, Stash/Git  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Proficient in Software Design and Development with a solid background in Developing.  • Strong Knowledge of web application security and access control.  • Experienced in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM Process.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django, C++, Javascript, JQuery, MySQL, Oracle 11.2, Linux, Django, Eclipse, Shell Scripting, HTML5/CSS. Red hat Linux, Apache, 1 Python Developer Humana Healthcare Insurance January 2014 to June 2015 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for getting the teams up and running with game record features.  • Worked on requirement gathering and High level design.  • Used HTML/CSS and Javascript for UI development.  • Converted Visual basic Application to Python, MSQL.  • Used python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Created Reports using JASPER.  • Created data access SQL and PL/SQL stored procedures.  • Performed Unit/System test.  • Written many programs to parse excel file and process many user data with data validations.  • Used Thales theorem for applying encryption and decryption of ISO standard message in Python programming.  • Applies EMV card algorithms to system via python programs.  • Developed Python based API (RESTful Web Service) to track sales and perform sales analysis using Flask.  • Utilized Python in the handling of all hits on Django, Redis, and other applications.  • Performed research regarding Python Programming and its uses and efficiency.  • Developed object-oriented programming to enhance company product management.  • Experienced in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM Process.  Environment: Python2.7, Visual Basic, Java Script, XML, JASPER, MySQL, PL/SQL, Oracle 9i, Bugzilla, Flask Java developer Tarang Technologies January 2012 to December 2013 Responsibilities:  • Involved in analysis, design and development of IBA application and developed specifications which include Use Cases, Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams and Activity Diagrams.  • Developed server side applications using Servlets, EJBs and JDBC.  • Used Ant for building the application.  • Used JMS for communicating various clients and it's components  • Used JUnit for Testing.    • Used WebServices-WSDL and SOAP  • Involved into coding using core java technologies like inheritance, abstraction, etc.  • Used multi-threading concepts in developing java applications.  • Developed EJB components for middle tier component implementation and business logic implementation.  • Used Struts the MVC framework for building web applications.  • Developed web pages by using HTML, DHTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed PL/SQL database scripts and written Stored Procedures and Triggers.  • Created User guide and application support document.  • Used CVS for the concurrent development in the team and for code repository  • Involved in regression testing, evaluating the response times, and resolving the connection pooling issues.    Environment: Core Java, JDBC, JSP, Servlets, Struts 2.0, SOAP, WSDL, EJB, JAXB, SVN, Eclipse IDE 3.2, ANT, JavaScript, Weblogic 10.0, Oracle 10g, Linux and Windows XP(Operating systems) Education Bachelors in Information Technology JNTU - Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh Skills CSS (5 years), DATABASE (5 years), HTML (5 years), JAVASCRIPT (5 years), ORACLE (5 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Operating Systems Unix, Linux (Ubuntu), Solaris, Windows 2000, XP, Vista, 7.  Web technologies JavaScript, XML, HTML, CSS4, Jquery, Angularjs, Bootstarp.  Languages Python, C, E/SQL, Shell Scripting, QT.  Database Oracle 11.2, SQL SERVER 2008, MYSQL 5.  Internet Programming HTML, XML, CSS, AJAX, JSON, Jquery, Web Services (SOAP/REST), Airflow, JASPER, AWS  Software Tools Make, GDB, DBX, Purify, Eclipse, Microsoft Visual Studio .Net 2008, MSVisio, Valgrind.  Version Control Tools SVN, GIT.