Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer Work Experience Python Developer McKesson - San Francisco, CA March 2016 to April 2018 Responsibilities:  • Performed dynamic UI designing with HTML5, CSS3, less, Bootstrap, JSON and AJAX.  • Worked on SOAP UI, Postman as part of Soap/Rest calls testing.  • Converted existing PERL scripts into Python web services.  • Used Python Library Beautiful Soup 4 for Web Scraping to extract data for building graphs.  • Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all its commands. Wrote Restful web services to communicate with Mongo DB and performed CRUD operations on Mongo DB using Restful web API services.  • Developed Python based (RESTful Web Services) to track the events and perform analysis using Django.  • Supported/maintained client website within the DJANGO CMS system for various website needs.  • Thorough knowledge in various front-end tools like HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript, XML, JQuery, Angular JS, and AJAX  • Used Couchbase Python SDK to build applications that use Couchbase Server.  • Performed dynamic UI designing with HTML5, CSS3, less, Bootstrap, JSON and AJAX.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Created Python and Bash scripts to monitor & increase efficiency of retail management application system and operations.  • Automated various infrastructure activities like Continuous Deployment, Application Server setup, Stack Monitoring using Ansible playbooks and has integrated Ansible with Run deck and Jenkins  • Used GCP to create storage resources and define resource attributes, such as disk type or redundancy type, at the service level.  • Used Angular JS for developing single page web applications.  • Used Ansible playbooks to setup Continuous Delivery pipeline. This primarily consists of a Jenkins and Sonar server, the infrastructure to run these packages and various supporting software components such as Maven, etc.  • Having expertise on performance testing of the applications on Mongo DB using Studio3T and OPS Manager.  • Developed Hibernate with Spring Integration as the data abstraction to interact with the database of MongoDB.  • Created a Python/Django based web application for data processing using MySQL as database, and HTML/CSS/JavaScript for frontend development and D3 JavaScript for Data Visualization.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Implemented REST API's in Python using python based micro-framework called Flask with SQL Alchemy in the backend for management of data center resources on which OpenStack would be deployed.  • Design front end using UI, HTML, Bootstrap, Node JS, underscore JS, Angular JS, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Implemented dynamic page elements and form error validations using Angular Js.  • Worked in DevOps group running Jenkins in a Docker container with EC2 slaves in Amazon AWS cloud configuration.  • Designed and developed MySQL Procedures and UNIX Shell Scripts for Data Import/Export and Conversions.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting programming related issues.  • Worked on Atlassian tools like Bamboo, Jira, and confluence • Installed and configured configuration tool such as Chef Server/workstation and nodes via CLI tools to AWS nodes.  • Created and configured new JIRA projects and worked with departments to maintain existing JIRA projects.  • Created and maintained various DevOps related tools for the team such as provisioning scripts, deployment tools and staged virtual environment using Docker Python Developer Kroger - Cincinnati, OH January 2015 to March 2016 Responsibilities:  • Involved in analysis, specification, design, and implementation and testing phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and used agile methodology for developing application.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Build all database mapping classes using FLASK models.  • Developing software in Python, C# and web development frameworks such as Flask as well as Angular 2/Mongo DB, Express, Node.js.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python to build an interactive web-based solution.  • Created Test plans. Worked on SQL scripts to load data in the tables.  • Implemented REST API's in Python using micro-framework like Django with SQL Alchemy in the backend for management of data center resources on which OpenStack would be deployed.  • Connected continuous integration system with GIT version control repository and continually build as the check-in's come from the developer.  • Created new JSP views to incorporate backend functionality to display on the UI screens using client rich technologies like jQuery, JavaScript, HTML, CSS files.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on FLASK Framework.  • Developed custom screens using HTML5, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap, Jinja and Angular.js.  • Expert knowledge of mobile application development along with various patterns native, web and hybrid concept.  • Very good understanding of Microsoft Azure cloud platform. Experience with managing cloud delivery platforms, Azure/Aws.  • Worked on JavaScript MVC framework like Angular JS.  • Established framework to setup Continuous Integration environment using Jenkins, Nexus.  • Used Couchbase Python SDK to build applications that use Couchbase Server.  • Involved in developing selenium automation framework using TestNG. Developed Maven targets to execute automation suites from command line.  • Worked on AWS Cloud and Created instances in EC2.  • Participated in weekly release meetings with Technology stakeholders to identify and migrate potential risks associated with the releases.  • Imported and managed multiple corporate applications into Subversion (SVN)  • Involved in front end and utilized Bootstrap and Angular.js for page design. Full stack Developer Couchbase 2003 to 2011 Kubernetes and MongoDB 4.0 Orient DBF net.  • Good knowledge in working with application server - Apache Server, Tomcat (6.0, 7.0, 8.0), Nginx, WebLogic (10.0, 10.3, 11g), WebSphere (7.0, 8.5)    Full stack Developer  Walmart, Bentonville, AR  May 2018 to Present  Responsibilities:  • Worked in software development life cycle (SDLC) of the tracking systems Requirements, Gathering, Analysis, Detail Design, Development, Sys and User Acceptance Testing. Django  • Used Amazon EC2 command line interface along with Bash/ Python to automate repetitive work.  • Worked in consuming RESTful web services using jQuery and React.js along with JSON parsing to render the response data to User Interface.  • Worked on Mongo DB write concern to avoid loss of data during system failures and implemented read preferences in Mongo DB replica set.  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast HTTP server and Amazon AWS architecture.  • Involved in designing and developing of Automation Test cases using Selenium WebDriver, Java, and TestNG.  • Developed Quality Assurance and Management teams to ensure cross communication and confirmed approval of all production changes.  • Used jQuery for selecting DOM elements when parsing HTML.  • Connected continuous integration system with GIT version control repository and continually build as the check-in's come from the developer.  • Created web application prototype using jQuery and Angular JS.  • Worked on dynamic web applications by using Angular JS.  • Implemented the Backbone JS for DOM manipulation as this is the light web framework compared to Angular JS.  • Performed Unit testing, Integration Testing and generating of test cases for web applications using Junit and Python Unit test framework Hudson/Jenkins in the builds triggered by each push to GIT.  • Worked in NoSQL technologies like MongoDB, Cassandra and relational databases like Oracle, SQLite,  • Created Python scripts to automate daily networking tasks (Ex. auto Config generation, retrieving information from network devices, parsing data, etc.) - including a custom FortiGate firewall Config generator (which included multi-threaded functionality to generate Configs for multiple firewalls at once)  • Developed existing network mapping microservices using python Nmap and deployed it on Kubernetes also performed Restful routing using Node.js which submits my form data to the Mongo DB database.  • Developed user interface using, CSS, HTML, JavaScript and jQuery& Ruby on rails.  • Used Python/Django MVC framework to design and develop the application.  • Created internal diagnostic tools using Golang and Angular JS in order to assist with customer issues. Golang and Java were used as a backend REST service while Angular JS was used for the user interface.  • Created interactive web pages and applications by usage of HTML, CSS, Angular JS and jQuery.  • Created Angular JS controllers and services.  • Working as an application developer experienced with controllers, views and models in Django.  • Designed front end and backend of the application using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Develop consumer-based features and applications using Python and Django in test driven Development and pair-based programming.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Java, Bootstrap, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Created interactive data charts on web application using High charts JavaScript library with data coming from Apache Cassandra.  • This project also used other technologies like jQuery for java script manipulations, bootstrap for the front-end html layout.  • Created Terraform scripts for EC2 instances, Elastic Load balancers and S3 buckets. Implemented Terraform to manage the AWS infrastructure and managed servers using configuration management tools like Chef and Ansible.  • Expertise in Backend Web Technologies using Python, Django, Flask, Java and REST API.  • Wrote ANSIBLE Playbooks with Python, SSH as the Wrapper to Manage Configurations of AWS Nodes and Test Playbooks on AWS instances using Python. Run Ansible Scripts to provision Dev servers.  • Worked on frontend frameworks like CSS Bootstrap for development of Web application.  • Set up rules and policies with a Node.JS/ Python back end.  • Worked in MySQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization and denormalization.  • Used Python based GUI components for the front-end functionality such as selection criteria.  • Connected continuous integration system with GIT version control repository and continually build as the check-in's come from the developer.  • Worked with View Sets in Django-REST framework for providing web services and consumed web services performing CRUD operations.  • Used GIT as version control for existing system. Education Master's Skills REST (4 years), Jquery (4 years), Angularjs (4 years), Front end (4 years), Back end develper (4 years), Web application (5 years), drivers (4 years), Django (4 years), Mongodb (5 years), DB (4 years), My SQL (4 years), flask (4 years), Html (4 years), XML (5 years), testing (4 years), Open stacks (4 years), Git-hub (4 years)