Sr. Full Stack Python Developer Sr. Full Stack <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Full Stack Python Developer - AT&T Inc Minneapolis, MN • Over 8 years of IT Experience in designing, developing, testing and implementing of various stand-alone and client-server architecture based enterprise application software in Python on different domains.  • Skilled experience in Python with proven expertise in using new tools and technical developments (libraries used: libraries- Beautiful Soup, Jasy, numpy, Scipy, matplotlib, Pickle, PySide, python-twitter, Pandas data frame, networks, urllib2, My SQL dB for database connectivity) to drive .com  • Experience in project deployment using Heroku/Jenkins and using web services like Amazon Web Services (AWS) EC2, AWS S3, Lambda, RDS (MySQL).  • Having good knowledge in using NoSQL databases like Apache Cassandra (1.2, 2.0 and 2.1) and Mongo DB (2.6, 2.4), Orient DB.  • Extensive experience with Amazon Web Services (AWS), OpenStack, Docker Puppet, Chef, Ansible, AWS CloudFormation, AWS CloudFront.  • Experience in using various version control systems like CVS, Git, GitHub and Amazon EC2 and deployment using Heroku.  • Sound experience in Core Java and Object Oriented Programming using concepts like Multi-Threading, Exception Handling and Collections.  • Experienced in working with server side technologies including databases, restful API and MVC design patterns.  • Special skills in development of effective, user-friendly web applications. Experienced in requirement gathering, Use case development, Business Process flow, Business Process Modelling: extensively used UML to develop various use cases, class diagrams and sequence diagrams.  • Having experienced in Agile  • Ensure data integrity and data security on AWS technology by implementing AWS best practices.  • Integrating AWS infrastructure with Cloud Computing Product - CloudHealth.  • Good experience in developing web applications implementing Model View Control architecture using Django, Flask, Pyramid and Zope Python web application frameworks.  • Experienced in working with various Python Integrated Development Environments like Net Beans, PyCharm, PyScripter, Spyder, PyStudio, PyDev and Sublime Text.  • Strong expertise in development of web based applications using Python, Django, HTML, XML, Angular JS, CSS, DHTML, JavaScript, JSON and JQuery.  • Good knowledge on front end frame works like CSS Bootstrap.  • Knowledge about setting up Python REST API Frame work using Django.  • Experienced with Amazon SQS, and Amazon Web Services like EC2, Redshift, Lambda and S3.  • In-depth Cisco technology knowledge in design, administration, implementation and support.  • In-depth knowledge of deploying and troubleshooting IP protocols.  • Good knowledge in working with application server- Apache Tomcat (6.0, 7.0, 8.0).  • Good knowledge of web services with protocols SOAP, REST.  • Proficient in HTML, MVC framework, virtualenv, pip.  • A firm grip on Ruby Core and Ruby Standard Libraries and their implementation in scripting modules.  • Designed and implemented Intranet applications using Ruby on Rails and PostgreSQL on Heroku cloud packages and Triggers on databases like MySQL, PostgreSQL and Oracle.  • Proficient in writing SQL Queries, Stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, triggers using relational databases like Oracle, DB2 and MySQL.  • Good idea about testing tools like Bugzilla and JIRA.  • Experience in working with Python ORM Libraries including Django ORM.  • Expertise in working with GUI frameworks - PyJamas, Jytho  • Experience working on multiple Data Analytics, Big Data and other projects professionally as well as academically.  • Experience with CI (Continuous Integration) and CD (Continuous Delivery) methodologies using Jenkins.  • Identifies and keeps abreast of novel technical concepts and markets  • Authors technical reports, papers, articles, patents and presentations when needed  • Worked in Hadoop with Oozie Workflow Engine in running workflow jobs with actions that run Hadoop MapReduce, Hive, Spark jobs.  • Participates in relevant project technical reviews and audits  • Experience in writing test cases for various react components using JEST.  • Expertise in React.js framework to develop the SPA and working with React Flux and Redux architecture.  • Reviews, mentors and coaches, while defining and promoting use of standards, best practices and lessons learned. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Full Stack Python Developer AT&T Inc - Cupertino, CA July 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Developing PHP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery and Angular JS ecommerce application pages according to project requirements. Create custom Drupal modules using PHP, MySQL and JavaScript and configure required contributed Modules. Worked on HTML, HTML5, JavaScript, CSS and their integration within a PHP environment.  • Designed an 8-bit adder individually from schematic to layout using Cadence 6 to match final product EDP lower than 100ps*pJ and optimized layout area.  • Design and Setting up of environment of Mongo dB with shards and replica sets. (Dev/Test and Production).  • Private VPN using Ubuntu, Python, Django, CherryPy, Postgres, Redis, Bootstrap, Jquery, Mongo, Fabric, Git, Tenjin, Selenium, Sphinx, and Nose.  • Designed, developed, coded and worked in penetration testing in customized DOL-AWS GovCloud Node.js Security Monitoring of VPC Zones using AWS - Lambda to load customized Spark-Scala GraphX Application.  • ETL Pipeline (SessionM, Go): main designer and developer of highly scallable ETL service system was designed to handle a generic importer implementation.  • Implementing multi-tier application provisioning in OpenStack cloud, integrating it with Ansible/Puppet.  • Involved in designing and deploying multitude applications utilizing most of the AWS stack (Including EC2, Route53, S3, RDS, IAM) focusing on high-availability, fault tolerance, and auto-scaling in AWS CloudFormation  • Configured AWS IAM and Security Group in Public and Private Subnets in VPC.  • Created AWS Route53 to route traffic between different regions.  • AWS data pipeline for Data Extraction, Transformation and Loading from the homogeneous or heterogeneous data sources.  • Experience in working on various python packages such as NumPy, SQL Alchemy, Pyside, SciPy, and PyTables.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis.  • Created and improved dynamic UIs for a Ruby on Rails Single Page Application using JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX and Ruby.  • Used Python (Pandas, PyBrain) to spot trends and predict future movements in investment vehicles  • Created a script using PySpark to aggregate daily twitter interactions with Nordstromrack/Hautelook mentions  • Pipelined into AWS Glue then used PySpark to perform complex transformations standardizing the data and stages it into S3 buckets. Using Glue's generic transformations as well as PySpark transformation implemented ETL process to standardize the data.  • Implement device configuration changes to network infrastructure: Routers, Switches, Load Balancers and Firewalls.  • Used and promoted standard python coding conventions (PEP8).  • Made sure the existing code base follow the PEP8 coding standard.  • Worked with Elastic Load Balancers, created Launch Configurations and Auto-Scaling Groups.  • Investigated platform differences between visual data tools Tableau and Google Data Studio and presented key findings to Data Analytics team.  • Implementing and deploying data analytics Machine learning models.  • Managed IT vendor Statements of Work (SOW) using applied processes (SDF, EDP, ITIL, Agile, CMM and CMMI).  • Handle escalated Support tickets till closure for MS Azure PaaS platform.  • Utilized continuous integration and automated deployments with Jenkins, Ansible and Docker.  • Web application development using Python 3.2/2.7, Django 1.9, Flask, MongoDB, JavaScript, AJAX, HTML, XML and template languages.  • Created internal diagnostic tools using Golang and Angular JS in order to assist with customer issues. Golang and Java were used as a backend REST service while Angulr JS was used for the user interface.  • Created interactive web pages and applications by usage of HTML, CSS, Angular JS and JQuery.  • Created Angular JS controllers and services.  • Implement new requirements and fix existing bugs on the system, built in ERLANG, CouchDB, CouchDB modules and PostgreSQL (backend) and CoffeeScript and BackboneJS (frontend).  • Implemented Web Services (WSDLs) using JAX-WS and also implemented REST services by Golang with microservices architecture.  • Configured the Route 53 DNS and load Balancers for the VPC and the NACL with inbound and outbound Rules.  • Implemented multiple AWS services in integration with Cloud Watch, Lambda, and Elastic Load Balancer (ELB).  • Supported many other projects build and deployments issues with Jenkins CI/CD pipelines.  • Developed Python code to gather the data from HBase and designs the solution to implement using PySpark.  • Exploring with Spark various modules of Spark and working with Data Frames, RDD and Spark Context  • Great hands on experience with Pyspark for using Spark libiries by using python scripting for data analysis.  • Developed backup and recovery engine for VM backup/recovery using VMware vSphere APIs, GoLang programming language and RabbitMQ Message bus (communication interface).  • Experience using Restful to push configure to devices with Java and Erlang.  • Developed approaches for improving NLP pipeline.  • Deployed version control system like CVS, Git, GitHub and Amazon EC2 using Heroku.  • Provide consulting and cloud architecture for premier customers and internal projects running on MS Azure platform for high-availability of services, low operational costs.  • Developed a MATLAB algorithm which determines an object's dimensions from digital images.  • Web-services backend development using Python (CherryPy, Django, SQL Alchemy).  • Responsible for architecture and development of the official Go Telestream Cloud.  • Developing the streaming pipeline using spark windowing functions and storing the data to the data marts that was developed using mongodb.  • Developed Pig scripts for data analysis and extended its functionality by developing custom UDF's.  • Importing and exporting data into HDFS, Pig, Hive and HBase using SQOOP.  • Created React.js components using JSX and Virtual DOM Followed Redux Architecture for unidirectional data  • flow and manage the data in React and Make HTTP requests in React & Redux.  • Created entire application using Python, Django, MySQL and Linux.  • Installed, configured, and managed the AWS server.  • Created a Python based GUI application For Freight Tracking and processing s  • Used Django framework for application development.  • Developed AWS CodeBuild/CodePieline/Lambda for CI/CD.  • Design front end using UI, HTML, Bootstrap, Node JS, underscore JS, Angular JS, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Implemented dynamic page elements and form error validations using Angular JS.  • Worked on HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Angular JS, Node.JS, Git, REST API, Mongo DB, intelliJ IDEA.  • Wrote Python routines to log into the websites and fetch data for selected options.  • Used Python modules such as requests, urllib, and urllib2 for web crawling.  • Implemented and maintained NLP core RESTful API suite for custom lemmatization, token tagging, parsing.  • Designed, developed, and integrated a PostgreSQL database of ontological information with a proprietary Scala- based NLP pipeline  • Created database using MySQL, wrote several queries to extract data from database.  • Worked on reading multiple data formats on HDFS using Spark.  • Developed and maintained various automated web tools for reducing manual effort and increasing efficiency of the Global Shipping Team.  • Developed, debugged, and maintained a large-scale distributed platform.  • Worked with latest PrimeNG components using Angular4&5  • Updated the project midway to Angular 4 for its performance benefits.  • Created components and implement Routing with Angular 5.  • Worked on Angular 4 forms and validations to validate the user input.  • Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.4, My SQL, Windows,Lambda, Linux, Aws, HTML, CSS, J Query, JavaScript, Apache, Linux, Redshift,PEP8 coding Quality Center ,Numpy ,Pandas, React, React Js, CI/CD,Angular4/5. Sr. Full Stack Python Developer Kellogg's - Oak Brook, IL August 2016 to June 2017 Responsibilities:  • Worked on migrating MapReduce programs into Spark transformations using Spark and Scala, initially done using python (PySpark).  • Parsed various file formats including XML and JSON and loaded into MSSQL Server database with Python XML and JSON modules  • Created PDF reports using Golang and XML documents to send it to all customers at the end of month with internation language support.  • Developed custom consumers and producers for Apache Kafka in Go (golang) for cars monitoring system.  • Used GoLang to create backend servers.  • Responsible for providing leadership in a trade-study exploring alternate software ecosystems including Erlang/OTP, Python plus messaging frameworks, and other scalable alternatives.  • Worked with different Python libraries like Pandas, Numpy, PyHamcrest, pymssql, pypyodbc etc.  • Developed PySpark code to mimic the transformations performed in the on-premise environment.  • Analysed the sql scripts and designed the solution to implement using pyspark  • Migrated associated business logic ( PL/SQL procedures/functions) to Apache Spark.  • Showcased strong understanding on Hadoop architecture including HDFS, MapReduce, Hive, Pig, Sqoop and Oozie.  • Abided by PEP8 Python coding standard for Squish scripts.  • Used Pig as ETL tool to do transformations, event joins, filter both traffic and some pre-aggregations before storing the data onto HDFS.  • Developed the UI of the application using Django and implemented MVT framework.  • Created DEV, QA, PROD, DEMO Environments in AWS from scratch.  • Called Rest web services through Angular js services to get JSON Object and modified the response object to display in UI.  • Familiar in writing Custom Directives in Angular.js, making use of Modules and Filters objects according to the application requirement.  • Responsible for building components to connect to other micro-services using Kafka, Elastic search, REST. Developed plugins to de-serialize data in non-native kafka  • Involved in the implementation of open- source web application frameworks like Bootstrap and Angular js.  • Designing data modeling and cleaning process using PySpark and SQL resulting in savings of two hours per data load  • Developing and maintenance of new and existing web application features for both internal administrators and end users using Ruby on Rails.  • Experience developing applications with Ruby on Rails MVC framework.  • Involved in developing the Web Pages with best design and development procedures with security incorporated  • Experienced in Python's modules numpy, matplotlib etc. for generating complex graphical data, creation of histograms etc.  • Experience in data analysis and machine learning techniques with hands-on-experience on various python libraries like NumPy/Pandas/SciPy.  • Excellent knowledge of OOPS, Multi-Threading and Collections concepts and in Python. Used Pandas library for Statistical Analysis.  • Good experience in Python in creating scalable and robust applications along with other technologies (D3, Angular, and Node JS).  • Creation of VMs, cloning and migrations of the VMs on VMware vSphere 4.0.  • Managed and upgraded UNIX's server services such as Bind DNS.  • Leveraged social media APIs to perform sentiment analysis and other NLP tasks.  • Created NLP modules for info retrieval: automatic extraction of terms (ATE) and their synonyms, Named Entities (NE) and their features  • Created NLP modules for text processing, structured, semi-structured and free: normalization, tokenization, trimming.  • Provisioned load balancer, auto-scaling group and launch configuration for microservice using Ansible.  • Worked on with spark dataframe operations that are required to develop a data format file.  • DB2 SQL Procedures and UNIX Shell Scripts were designed and developed for Data Import/Export and Conversions.  • Worked on projects related to the client Santander UK, ING Italy and ING France.  • Validated the quality of the partner files that Kabbage delivers to partner financial institutions.  • Behave Framework and native Python programming was used in developing the application.  • Developed GUI using PHP5, HTML5, AJAX, CSS3 and JavaScript (JQuery2)  • Design front end using UI, HTML, Bootstrap, Node JS, underscore JS, Angular JS, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Implemented dynamic page elements and form error validations using Angular Js.  • Experience in writing playbooks for Ansible and deploying applications using Ansible.  • Developing Machine learning algorithms for internal search engine.  • Worked on HDFS to store and access huge datasets within Hadoop.  • Wrote Hive and Pig scripts for joining the raw data with the lookup data and for some aggregative operations as per the business requirement.  • Good hands on experience with git and GitHub.  • Created a feature node on GitHub.  • Designed dynamic client-side JavaScript codes to build web forms and simulate process for a web application, page navigation using Angular 2.  • Validating user actions on the client side and providing responsive feedback by using angular 2.  • Worked on angular 2 components for the separation of concerns.  • Good knowledge in Agile, Jira and scrum methodologies.  • Experience in working on various python packages such as NumPy, SQL Alchemy, Pyside, SciPy, and PyTables.  • Using OPPS concept using python programming concept.  • Worked on custom rules pre-delegation, signoff, revoke & active phase rules as part of multiple certifications.  • Extracted, loaded, and analyzed data to and from MSSQL Server database with Python.  • In order to avoid the reloading of the entire web page to update small portions, AJAX in UI was used.  • Implemented RESTful web services for sending and receiving the data between multiple systems.  • Used all aspects of MySQL/PHP Programming, Zend 1.9 Framework in LAMP environment.  • Created data frames in particular schema from raw data stored at Amazon S3, lambda using PySpark.  • Manage the configurations of multiple servers using Ansible.  • Deployed mircoservices2, including provisioning AWS environments using Ansible Playbooks.  • Designed and developed multiple Applications for the client using Angular 4/5 along with HTML5, CSS3, and Type Script and Bootstrap4, NodeJS, MySQL.  • Developed Typescript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component based architecture provided by Angular 5.  • Environment: Python 3.6, Behave, Django, Java Script, Aws HTML, XHTML, lambda, JQuery, JSON, XML, CSS, MSSQL Server, React, React js,Pig, Numpy, Pandas, CI/CD,Angular4/5,Angular2. Python Developer IBM Cloud June 2015 to July 2016 Responsibilities:  • Developed Python Django forms to record data and the Login module page for users.  • Designed email marketing campaigns and created interactive forms that saved data into database using Django Framework.  • Improving the performance while processing data by modifying functions, queries, cursors, triggers and stored procedures for MySQL database.  • Extensive experience in Data & Analytics end-to-end solutions - Development, Test and Productio environments.  • Pioneered data analytics program for Marketing Team.  • Providing scalable solutions via erlang, golang, AWS, protocol buffers and supervision trees.  • Involved with providing a framework that talked to light and video devices over websockets in Erlang and used ZeroMQ to talk to a Clojure component.  • Client-Side code was written in ReactJS/Redux.  • Used React.js for templating for faster compilation and developing reusable components  • Used various HBase commands and generated different Datasets as per requirements and provided access to the data when required using grant and Revoke  • Knowledge on deploying applications using AWS stack (including EC2, Route53, S3, RDS, Dynamo DB, SNS, SQS, IAM).  • Installed various packages in python using pip and easy install.  • Experience with various Python packages using pip install- sphinx, reportlab.  • Designed missing value automatic imputation workflow for the numerical pipeline of Alenza product and implemented MCAR verification and multiple imputation algorithm in PySpark.  • Provided annual training to Auditors on ACL and Data Analytics  • IBM Cloud- SoftLayer/Bluemix Data Analytics, Watson and Blockchain platforms, IBM Cloud Brokerage Services Cost and Asset Management.  • focusing on high-availability, fault tolerance, and auto-scaling in AWS Cloud formation.  • Designed and maintained databases using Python and developed Python based API (RESTful Web Service) using Flask, SQL Alchemy and PostgreSQL.  • Experience in all phases of Data warehouse life cycle involving analyzing, developing, designing, testing, maintaining Software applications and implementing Data Mart, Data Warehouse applications and Data integration using ETL.  • Have a clear understanding of Data Warehousing concepts with emphasis on ETL and life cycle development.  • Extensively worked with data warehousing, ETL methodologies, technologies, using Informatica - Power Center Client tools - Designer, Repository manager, workflow manager/monitor and Server tools - Informatica Server, Repository Server manager.  • Data preparation, Feature Engineering & Model Building being performed in Big Data Platform - Spark (Spark SQL, PySpark), Impala, Hadoop HDFS.  • Use Python and PySpark to create streaming data solutions for enterprise-wide analytics.  • Generated graphical reports using python package Numpy and matPlotLib.  • Used Node.js with React for server-side rendering. Implement modules into Node.js to integrate with designs and requirements.  • Worked on Angular2 Templates, directives, Routing and navigation, Components, Services, Pipes and Data Binding.  • Developed single page applications using Angular 2, Typescript, HTML5, CSS3, and Bootstrap.  • Created Typescript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component-based architecture provided by Angular 2.  • Using Redmine as the project management tool for easy collaboration with the developer. WinCvs was used as the integration tool. Participated in the complete SDLC process.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the JQueryUI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  • Involved in front end and utilized Bootstrap and Angular.js for page design.  • Performed data manipulation/storage for incoming test data using lxml /etree libraries.  • Updating pages using HTML, CSS in Angular.js framework.  • Developed API modularizing existing python module with the help of pyYAML libraries.  • Improved performance by using more modularized approach and using more in built methods.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using JSON.  • Deployed the project into Heroku using Django and GIT version control system.  • Assisted in designing, implementing and evaluating applications, systems and utilities relevant to Active Directory services  • Initialized the roll out of Active Directory recovery and monitoring applications.  • Planning and implementing an Active Directory domain consolidation and reorganization for HDS.  • Hands on experience working in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python/PHP) Architecture.  • Developed Web Services using XML messages that use SOAP. Developed Web Services for Payment Transaction and Payment Release  • Collaborated with internal teams to convert end user feedback into meaningful and improved solutions.  • Deployed the tools Microsoft Azure Cloud Service (PaaS, IaaS), and Web Apps.  • Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.4, Behave, Puppet Rspec, Redshift ,Jenkins,pip, Grafana/Graphite, MySQL, Linux, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, JQuery, JavaScript, Apache, Linux, Git, Perl, Cassandra,React, React js, Azure Automation cloud services.AWS Engineer,Angular2. Python Developer Centene Corporation - St. Louis, MO August 2014 to May 2015 Responsibilities:  • Designed and Developed the Solution Architecture package to identify all possible solutions for the project using UML methodologies.  • Deployed Django web application in Apache webserver and carpathia cloud web deployment.  • Designed and developed middleware, using RESTful web services based on a centralized schema which is consumed by thousands of users.  • Involved in the deployment process of the application on WebSphere Application Server.  • SVN are used as source code controls and developed test cases using JUnit.  • Developed a multi-user web application using JSP, JSTL, Action Forms, Action Classes, JavaScript and JDBC to provide the needed functionality.  • Developed Java beans and JSP's by using Spring and JSTL tag libs for supplements.  • Used J2EE Design patterns (Singleton, Service Locator and DAO).  • Implemented MVC Architecture using JSF and Struts framework and custom tag libraries.  • Good experience in Amazon AWS concepts like EMR, S3 and EC2 web services which provides fast and efficient processing of Big Data.  • Responsible for setting up Angular JS framework for UI development. Developed html views with HTML5, CSS3, JSON and AngularJS, Bootstrap.  • Performed research to explore and identify new technological platforms.  • Using the Angular JS MVC framework that connects to internal and public RESTful API's.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python.  • Created creating tables, data manipulation and retrieval using Oracle and DB2.  • Used MQ Series to send, receive and read the messages and also Created Queues.  • Understanding business requirements and translate into ETL design  • Creating Informatica ETL components and translate based on the requirements.  • Creating ETL job schedules and dependencies using scheduling tools (Tivoli).  • Deployed the Web application using ANT build script  • Testing - unit testing & integration testing of the application.  • Used Mercury Quality Center for requirement management, executing the test plans and defect management.  • Used SOA architecture for communication between various business entities.  • Communicated with the business people to get more clarity on the requirements/changes.  • Environment: Java, Spring, Python, JavaScript, JDBC, XML, JAXB, Web services, SOAP, WSDL, Hibernate, Spring, IBM MQ, PL/SQL, WebSphere, RAD 7.0, JUnit, Oracle 10g, DB2, Mercury Quality Center, SVN. Python Developer Wells fargo - Alpharetta, GA May 2012 to July 2014 Responsibilities:  • Experienced in NoSQL technologies like MongoDB, Cassandra and relational databases like Oracle, SQLite, MySQL, PostgreSQL and Dynamo DB.  • Worked mostly on the active records for the backend of the application.  • Involved in development of web services using SOAP for sending and getting the data from external interface in XML format.  • Experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories, Sprints experience in Python along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Developed the front end module of the application using Python 2.7, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JSON and JQuery.  • Involved in the design and maintenance of the databases using Python and Python based API using Flask, SQL and PostgreSQL.  • Worked on JavaScript MVC framework like Angular JS.  • Hands-on experience in Python scripting, in web development using Django.  • Used Python scripts to update the content in the database and manipulate files.  • Expertize in LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL and Python) architecture.  • Used Pandas library for statistical analysis.  • Worked on Test Driven Approach for developing services required for the application.  • Experience with Microsoft Azure Automation tool.  • Modified PHP5, HTML, CSS, Java script, jQuery according to project requirements.  • Worked on developing UI using CSS, HTML, JavaScript, JQuery and JSON.  • Good working experience in Azure Logic apps, Service Bus, Document DB and SQL Database.  • Environment: Python 2.7, Django, HTML5, CSS, Bootstrap, Pyramid, MySQL, MS SQL, T-SQL, JavaScript, Jasper Reports, Eclipse , Git.QA Tester. Python Developer Octave Technologies Pvt.Ltd - Hyderabad, Telangana September 2011 to April 2012 Responsibilities:  • Experienced in writing indexes, views, constraints, stored procedures, triggers, cursors and user defined functions or subroutines in MySQL.  • Developed views and templates with Django's MVT (model, view and template) to create a user-friendly website.  • Designed and developed the User Interface for the project using HTML, CSS, JavaScript and AJAX.  • Used existing Python and Django modules and rewritten to deliver data in certain formats.  • Entire Front end and back end modules of the project are developed using Python with Django Framework.  • Designed and developed the data management of the project using MySQL databases.  • With the use of Django's Database API, accessed database objects.  • Written Python Scripts to parse the XML documents and load the data in database.  • Client side validations are handled using JavaScript.  • Client side manipulations are done using JQuery and JavaScript.  • Responsible for Debugging and troubleshooting the application.  • Used Selenium Library to write fully functioning test automation process.  • Environment: Python, Django 1.3, MySQL, UNIX, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, Apache Web Server, SVN, Bugzilla. Java - Developer Deloitte - Hyderabad, Telangana July 2009 to August 2011 Responsibilities:  • Ensure designs are in compatible with specifications.  • Support formal testing and resolve test defects.  • Recommend changes to improve established java application process.  • Develop and execute unit test cases  • Developed endeca pipeline, partial pipeline, stop words, thesaurus etc.  • Created navigation categories using endeca.  • Created page builder rules using endeca workbench.  • Contribute in all phases of the development life cycle.  • Write well designed, testable, efficient code.  • Develop and execute unit test cases  • Contribute in all phases of the development life cycle.  • Write well designed, testable, efficient code.  • Ensure designs are in compatible with specifications.  • Support formal testing and resolve test defects.  • Recommend changes to improve established java application process.  • Helped trainees to learn how to use computational thinking to form a solid understanding around Java Core, Object Oriented Programming, and Java Programming. Education Bachelor's Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  • Frameworks Django, Zope, PyJamas, python, CSS Bootstrap,aws,pyspark.  • Web Technologies HTML, CSS, DOM, SAX, Java Script, JQuery, AJAX, XML, Angular JS,Revoke.  • Programming Languages Python2.7/3.7/3.6/3.4, C, PERL, SQL and PL/SQL.  • J2EE Technologies JSP, Java Servlets, JNDI, JDBC and JMS.  • Version Control SVN, CVS, Git, GitHub.  • Deployment Tools Heroku, Amazon EC2  • Analytic Tools JMP PRO, SAS, Tableau, UCI NET, Node XL  • Application servers Apache Tomcat, JBoss  • Databases Oracle (9i,10g, 11g), My SQL, Apache Cassandra, Apache beam, Mongo DB  • IDE's/ Development Tools Net Beans, Eclipse, PyCharm, PyScripter, PyStudio and Sublime Text.  • Operating Systems Windows, Red hat Linux 4.x/5.x/6.x, Ubuntu.  • Protocols TCP/IP, HTTP/HTTPS, SOAP, SMTP  • Testing Tools Bugzilla, JIRA, and Redmine.