Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - Intuitive Insurance Hayward, CA • Senior software Engineer with 5+ years of experience in Development, Analysis, Design, Testing, Deployment.  • Support and Implementation of various stand-alone, client-server enterprise/ web applications.  • Worked in software development using Python with Machine learning and Data science Libraries.  • Experience as a Web/Application Developer as coding with analytical programming using Python Django, Flask, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, XML, JQuery, JSON , Bootstrap, Node.js, Angular.js, Backbone.js, React.js.  • Proficient in SQL and databases MS SQL, MySQL, Oracle, no-SQL, Mongo DB.  • Experienced in PHP, Angular JS, VB, C++, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and J-Query.  • Good experience of software development in Python (libraries used: Beautiful Soup, NumPy , SciPy, Matplotlib , MySQL dB for database connectivity.  • Worked on various applications using python integrated IDEs Sublime Text, PyCharm, Spyder and Intellij.  • Good experience in developing web applications and implementing Model View Control (MVC) architecture using server side applications Django, Flask and Pyramid.  • Hands-on experience on Linux/Windows in VMware like virtualization environment is a must.  • Experience using API's in python.  • Experience with some ORM (Object Relational Mapper) libraries.  • Understanding of the threading limitations of Python, and multi-process architecture.  • Experience with automation tools such as Puppet or Chef.  • Experience with agile development methods like agile/scrum, TDD, BDD, peer code reviews, continuous integration.  • Excellent knowledge of version control systems like Git, SVN with hands on experience of branching, merging code etc.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL and used Django API's to access database.  • Well versed in design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Very Good knowledge of version control management tools like GIT for branching and merging and back up.  • Knowledge of Linux shell environments using command line interface and can build scripts and automated solution using scripting languages such as shell scripting, and Python.  • Familiar with XML/JSON based SOAP and REST web services.  • Experience with most of the web scale services on Amazon Web Services (AWS).  • Familiar with Querying RDBMS such as My SQL, SQL server and SAS.  • Skilled in debugging/troubleshooting issues in complex applications.  • Experienced in working on Application Servers like WebSphere, WebLogic, Tomcat, Web Servers like Apache server, NGINX and Integrated Development Environments like PyCharm, Eclipse.  • Experience in managing datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  • Experience in implementing Object Oriented Python, Hash Tables (Dictionaries) and Multithreading, Django and MYSQL.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on SQL database. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Python Developer Intuitive Insurance - Nashville, TN November 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Developed the presentation layer using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery and AJAX.    • Used JQuery libraries for all client side JavaScript manipulations.    • Utilized Python libraries wxPython, numPY, Twisted and matPlotLib.    • Implemented SQLAlchemy which is a python library for complete access over SQL.    • Worked on Element Tree XML API in python to parse XML documents and load the data in database.    • Designing and evaluating business using historical & current data from Google Analytics.    • Managed world wide data in Omniture for data collection and analysis and also worked on the library like pandas, NumPy, SciPy, Docker.    • Used Robot Test automation framework for Testing of the GUI of the application.    • Skilled in collections and used for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.    • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.    • Created entire application using Python, Django, MySQL and Linux.    • Used Amazon Elastic Beanstalk with Amazon EC2 to deploy project into AWS.    • Accessed database objects using Django Database APIs.    • Worked on Python OpenStack APIs and used Numpy for Numerical analysis.    • Used Ajax and JQuery for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.    • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.    • Managed datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL, queried MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQLdb package to retrieve information.    • Developed various algorithms for generating several data patterns.    • Created UI using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, JSON, and JQuery.    • Implemented business logic using Python Web frame work Django.    • Designed applications implementing MVC architecture in Pyramid, Zope frame works.    • Designing mobile search application system requirements and coded back-end and front-end in Python.    • Analysis and Design of application with the use of Docker.    • Implemented Model View Control architecture in developing web applications using Django frame work.    • Created backend database T-SQL stored procedures and Jasper.    • ETL process for continuously bulk importing catalog data into Elastic search.    • Worked with millions of database records on a daily basis, finding common errors and bad data patterns and fixing them.    • Exported/Imported data between different data sources using SQL Server Management Studio.    • Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.    • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.    • Used Python library NumPy Beautiful Soup for web-scraping.    • Worked on the Redfish Schema's for PDU products with DMTF board.    • Developed software for discover and monitoring the different kinds of dell servers, Storage and dell clients using SNMP, WSMAN, REDFISH interfaces.    • REDFISH API assistance, upgrades, managing and monitoring HPE tools to avoid operational downtime and timely maintenance.    • Worked on solutions based on Redfish standard.    • Worked on Redfish API to GET/POST/Patch HP ILO settings. Django Developer Python - Denver, CO September 2015 to October 2017 Responsibilities:    • Developed front-end and back-end of the application using Python on Django web framework.    • Automating data movements using Python scripts, involved in splitting, validating and processing of files.    • Used several Python libraries like NumPy, Matplotlib, Pandas.    • Performed Software Development Life Cycle, Database designs, agile methodologies, coding, testing of enterprise applications and IDE's such as Jupiter Notebook, PyCharm, Emacs, Web Storm, IntelliJ and Visual Studio.    • Build all database mapping classes using Django models.    • Used the RESTFUL web services to get the JSON object (response) and manipulated the JSON object to display the response in the webpage.    • Involved in redesigning the process, Analysis, coding, testing and implementing.    • Extensively worked on developing UI components using Angular JS and JSON to interact Restful web services.    • Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis, flexible reshaping and pivoting of data sets.    • Created entire application using Python Django, MySQL and Linux.    • Created Several XML Schemas and Developed Stored PL/SQL.    • Procedures and Packages to automatically create and drop table indexes.    • Generated Python Django forms to record data of online users and used Python in MySQL database on queries and writing stored procedures for normalization and denormalization.    • Managed Ubuntu Linux and windows virtual servers on AWS EC2 using open-source chef server.    • Migrated the applications from internal data centre to AWS.    • Skilled in using collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.    • Delivering deliverables on time by working on agile and waterfall methodologies.    • Experience in HTTP, DNS, and TCP/IP Networking Protocols.    • Used Django for framework for accessing various consumer data from various sources.    • Environment: Python 2.7, MySQL, Python Scripts, Oracle, JavaScript, MongoDB, AWS EC2, Django, NumPy, GIT HUB. Python Developer Shell June 2013 to August 2014 Responsibilities:  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Developed the project in Linux environment.  • Provided to coordinate data for pipeline tie-in locations at facilities.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework  • Worked on Python OpenStack APIs and used NumPy for Numerical analysis.  • Created interactive data charts on Customer portal web application using High charts JavaScript library with data coming from Apache Cassandra.  • Fetched twitter feeds for certain important keyword using Python-twitter library.  • Used Python library Beautiful Soup for Web scraping to extract data for building graphs.  • Worked in MySQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization.  • Implemented responsive vector maps and charts on webpages using the data from MongoDB.  • For the large data management used TFS and delivered reliable end-product.  • Learned to index and search/query large number of documents inside Elastic search.  • Updated the client admin tool to have the new features like support for internalization, support for customer service etc.  • Environment: Python 2.7, Django, Java Script, jQuery, MySQL, HTML, CSS, Linux, Sub Version, Beautiful Soup, NumPy, AJAX. Education B.Tech Anna university - Chennai, Tamil Nadu August 2009 to May 2013 Skills MySQL, Javascript Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  • Python, Java, Android, C, C++, html, css, javascript, bootstrap, MySQL, node js, JSON, DJANGO, PYTHON , AWS cloud, Python Django Web Framework.    • Web Technologies HTML/HTML5/CSS, PHP, JavaScript, XML, JSON.    • Web Framework Flask, Django, Pyramid, Hibernate.    • Development Tools PyCharm, Notepad++, SVN, Sublime, Slack, SQL Alchemy.    • Python Libraries Pandas, Numpy, urlilib, Matplotlib, JSON, CSV, XML, XLS , Unit Test, SciPy, Logging etc.    • Methodologies Agile, SCRUM and Waterfall.    • Databases Microsoft SQL Server, Oracle, MySQL, Cassandra, PostgreSQL and NoSQL database MongoDB.    • Version Controls Git, SVN, CVS, Sub version.    • Web Services CPS, Message Queue, AWS, SOAP, RESTful Webservices.    • Other Tools Eclipse, ANT Build, Putty, Visual Studio.    • Web and Application Servers: JBoss, Apache Tomcat, Web Sphere, Web Logic, Nginx.    • Scripting Languages: Python, Java, HiveQL, Advanced PL/SQL, SQL, IDE's Splunk, Eclipse/Net Beans.