Senior Backend/ Python Developer Senior Backend/<span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Backend/ Python Developer - Department of Justice San Francisco, CA • Around 10 years of experience in IT Industry involving in analytical programming software development and design, testing of web based and client server multi-tier applications using Python, Django & Backend Technologies.  • Expertise in Object Oriented concepts like Creating Classes, Inheritance, Constructors, Polymorphism, Encapsulation, Overloading and Overriding.  • Experience as a Python Developer in design, development, testing, maintenance and documentation of Enterprise applications using various technologies, analyzing complex business requirements & mapping them to system specifications.  • Experience with web applications and Restful web services and APIs using Python, Django  • Experience in Implementation of MVC/MVW architecture using Servlet, Django, JavaScript, jQuery, Nodejs, and RESTful.  • Developing software in Python, C# and web development frameworks such as Django as well as MongoDB, Express, Node.js.  • Experience working on various cloud and internet of things (IOT) tools such as AT&T M2X, IBM Watson, IBM Bluemix.  • Expertise in working with Python and Shell scripting for designing automation framework.  • Experienced in developing apps using Django Framework.  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast HTTP server and Amazon AWS architecture.  • Extensive experience in software development in inter-process communication, threading and developing high performant code.  • Skills at developing REST services, sending xml and JSON data over wire.  • Having hands on experience in Object Oriented Development, code optimizations, code refactoring, and web development.  • Well versed in all stages of Software Development Life Cycle including requirement analysis, design, development, testing, deployment and support and maintenance with various methodologies such as Waterfall, Incremental, Iterative and Agile models.  • Experience in developing REST web services supporting JSON to integrate with other external applications and 3rd party systems.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Organized data exchange and integration with customers and third-party systems using CSV, XLS, XML, DBF, JSON, REST.  • Experienced in using editors Eclipse, LaTeX, Notepad++, NetBeans, Visual Studio and Sublime Text while developing different applications along with version control systems like GIT.  • Experienced in developing applications using Agile Methodologies, Waterfall Methodology and Scrum stories in a python based environment.  • Hands on experience in designing the Class diagrams, activity diagrams, sequence diagrams, activity diagrams and flow charts.  • Worked closely with user researchers to define features and interaction, leading to high-fidelity mockups of use case scenarios for the design and production team.  • Penchant to learn things, Good communication skills, Hardworking and adaptable, quick learning, Self-motivated, precise and dedicated. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Backend/ Python Developer Department of Justice March 2017 to Present Project Description: Development of a platform to create, review and print reports for incidents that the police officers attends, including detentions, inspections to people, vehicles and places, witness/victims interviews, help for victims  Job Responsibilities:  • Worked closely with the Business users acting as liaison between the Business and technology to identify the requirements for new projects  • Worked on design, implementation and modifying the Python code, PostgreSQL database schema on-the back end.  • Documented company Restful API's using Swagger for internal and third part use and also worked on Unit testing and Integration testing.  • Worked on object-oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, Django, and Linux.  • Suggested and implemented changes to the existing processes and Applications to improve the availability of the applications to the Business.  • Create and Fill reports with python and PDFrw  • Used various MVW frameworks like Django, JavaScript and jQuery  • Created specific images using Python Imaging Library for the custom images used for each book.  • Direct communication with client on day to day basis for requirement gathering and production issue resolution.  • Providing help to peers in development and doing their code reviews  • Analyzed and provided fix for most of the critical issues raised by testing team and users.  • Documented all the workflow with design details and flowchart  • Experience in using version control systems like Git.  • Provided extended support for Production releases and assisted in validating the releases.  • Provided regular status updates to the client and senior management for the ongoing development work projects/productions issues.  Environment: Python3, Python Library, Django, PostgreSQL, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, JSON, Visual Studio Team Services, JQuery, Git, GitHub, Shell Scripting, Linux, Windows. Yellopages, YP.com - Tucker, GA January 2015 to February 2017 Project Description: Development, deployment and maintenance of backend and database for YP applications (Web, iOS and Android) which is a search engine for business near to you and with loyalty point program  Job Responsibilities:  • Responsible for identifying stories/tasks and estimating efforts and timelines at granular level.  • Responsible for Architecture and design implementation including database schema.  • Developed web application using python, Django framework, MySQL  • Developed REST services using NodeJS and MongoDB  • Perform cloud application deployment using Apache web server on AWS EC2 instance.  • Explored and evaluated AWS services.  • Designed and Developed user and device management module which stores data dynamically.  • Worked on User Interface using Django templating, HTML, CSS, JavaScript and Bootstrap.  • Responsible for code reviews, sprint planning and served as a scrum master.  • Dealt with client regarding the requirements of the projects and taking care of production issues and bugs.  Environment: Python, Django, MySQL, AWS, Apache, Linux, HTML, NodeJS, MongoDB, Git, Gitlab, IIS Senior Python Developer Polytechnic University of Puebla January 2014 to December 2014 Project Description: Development, deployment and maintenance of different platforms for administrative process including student record, teacher reviews, school polls, class enrollments; Also maintenance of web pages of the university.  Job Responsibilities:  • Assist in designing and developing a scalable recommendation platform that can be used by various systems/application  • Model View Control architecture is implemented using Django Framework to develop web applications.  • Developed scripts to migrate data from proprietary database to MySQL.  • Configuration of linux server for PHP and Python applications.  • Perform the deployment of PHP and Python applications  • Created Django dashboard with custom look and feel for end user after a careful study of Django admin site and dashboard.  • Ensured high quality data collection and maintaining the integrity of the data.  • Developed Use Case diagrams, Class diagrams, Collaboration and Sequence Diagrams, State Diagrams, Data Modeling.  • Developed application logic using Python and Java script.  • Developed the frontend for interaction by using the Django framework.  • Worked with version controlling system CVS and GIT.  • Created Data layer in MYSQL.  • Extracted and loaded data using Python scripts.  • Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis.  • Developed Views and Templates with Django view controller and template language to create a user-friendly website interface  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Created APIs, database Model and Views Utilization Python in order to build responsive web page application.  Environment: Python, Django, PHP, HTML5, CSS, MySQL, JavaScript, jQuery, CSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, Git, GitHub, Linux, Shell Scripting, Apache Backend Developer Ergosolar January 2012 to December 2013 Ibero Puebla, Lerim, Angel Team  Project Description: Development and deployment of backend REST services for web, iOS and Android applications of the clients  Job Responsibilities:  • Implemented live video streaming from device which is compatible with sockets.  • Understood the project scope, identified activities/tasks, task level estimates, schedule, dependencies, risks and provided inputs to Module Lead for review.  • Designed and developed, Use-Case Class and Object Diagrams.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL. Built application logic using Python 2.6.  • Used Django APIs for database access.  • Designed and developed communication between client and server using Secured Web services.  • Develop consumer based features and applications using Django, HTML, Python Behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pair based programming.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Java, Bootstrap, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Developed backend services and created many API's using Python Programming Language and SQL.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL. Involved in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM Process.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Implemented AJAX to update necessary section of webpages and hence, avoiding the need for reloading the entire web page.  • Experienced in writing indexes, views, constraints, stored procedures, triggers, cursors and user defined functions or subroutines in MySQL.  • Used GitHub for Python source code version control  • Perform deployment of application on custom servers and on AWS EC2 instances.  • Configure Linux server for production enviroments.  Environment: Python, Django, XML, MySQL, JavaScript, Bootstrap, MongoDB, JavaScript, Git, GitHub, Linux, Shell Scripting. Faculty Research Laboratory in Digital Systems and Renewable Energy March 2009 to January 2012 of Computer Science, Benemérita Autonomous University of Puebla Mar 2009 - Jan 2012  Software Enigneer/Collaborator  Project Description: Development of software for the research work of the head of the laboratory    Job Responsibilities:  • Developed Python Scripts to read from Excel files, generate XML configuration files and for generating IP access frequency lists in different datalogs.  • Generated Python Django Forms, Crispyforms to record data, login and signup of online users.  • Used multithreading in programming to improve overall performance.  • Involved in creating various Data Access Objects (DAO) for addition, modification and deletion of records using various specification files.  • Write a wrapper program in Python to automate the entire process.  • Database Administration activities like taking backup, checking log messages, looking for database optimization.  • Expertise in developing web-based LAMD stacks applications using Python and Django for large dataset analysis.  • Worked on creating various documents that include Use Cases, Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams and Activity Diagrams.  • Involved in the development using Spring Model View Controller (MVC) with Data access/integration layer consists ORM module.  • Designing classes using design pattern methodologies such as Singleton, Service Locator, and DAO factory and session façade patterns. Involved in Performance tuning.  • Created tables, complex join queries, stored procedures, views, Types, triggers and functions and modifications to existing database structure as required for addition of new features using SQL.  • Implemented TCP/IP socket programming application module which communicates data from cloud to devices and vice versa.  • Developed an algorithm for creation of dictionarys for brute force attacks.    Environment: Python, Django, Unified Modelling Language (UML), XML, Web services, CSS, HTML, Dephi, R programming, Matlab, C# and MySQL.    Projects:  • Development of FTP for the Faculty of Computer Science.  • Implementation of access control system for lunch service on Universiada Nacional 2014 Development of Tikkun (Winner of 2nd of protorype contenst CUVYTT 2014)  • Development of Plog (Winner of 2nd place on HackCDMX)  • Development of Cycle (Winner of 1st place on M2X category and 3rd place on general category of AT&T Hack 2016)    Research:  • Participant of the research program "La ciencia en tus manos XI" of Vicerrectoría de Investigación y Estudios de Posgrado, BUAP with the project "Implementation of a bot for search and storage of scientific papers".  • Participant of the research program "Jóvenes Investigadores VII" of Vicerrectoría de Investigación y Estudios de Posgrado, BUAP with the project "Development of a biometric system for the attendance record of workers of the Faculty of Computer Science". Education Bachelor in Computer Science Benemérita Autonomous University of Puebla - Puebla, MX Master in Computer Science Benemérita Autonomous University of Puebla - Puebla, MX Skills DJANGO (9 years), PYTHON (9 years), MYSQL (8 years), Git (6 years), JAVASCRIPT (6 years), Backend Additional Information Professional Skills:  • Linux server mounting.  • Server administrations.  • Web development.  • Deploy and maintenance of web systems.  • Design and implementation of Data Base Systems  • Structured programming.  • Object oriented programming.  • REST API design and development.    Personal Skills:  • Leadership  • Continuous improvement  • Self-learning  • Teamwork.    Technical Skills:  Programming Languages Python 2.x/3.x, C, C#, JavaScript, PHP, Delphi, MatLab, R Programming  Backend Technologies Python, NodeJS, Bash Scripting  Python Libraries  Requests, Scrapy, wxPython, Pillow, SQLAlchemy, BeautifulSoup, Twisted, NumPy, SciPy, matplotlib, Pygame, Pyglet, PyQT, PyGtk, Scapy, pywin32, ntlk, nose, SymPy, Ipython    Web Frameworks Django, Pyramid, TurboGears, Muffin, CherryPy  GUI Frameworks PyJamas, GnomePython, gui2py, PyFltk, PyForms, PyGtk, PySide, TkInter  Version Control Tools Concurrent Versions System (CVS), Subversion (SVN), GIT, GITHub, Mercurial  Automation Tools Ansible  Testing Tools  Unittest, pytest, pythoscope, PyMock, Mocker, antiparser, webunit, webtest, PAMIE, Selenium, Splinter, PyFIT, PyUseCase, Automa, PyChecker    IDE Eclipse, LaTeX, Notepad++, Netbeans, Thonny, Komodo, PyCharm, PyDev, PyScripter, Pyshield, Spyder, PyStudio  Databases MySQL, SQLite, MongoDB, Cassandra, NoSQL, PostgreSQL  Bug Tracking Tools Bugzilla, Jira    Operating Systems Windows 98/NT/2000/XP/Vista/7/8, Unix/Linux, Sun Solaris  Methodologies Agile, Scrum  Protocols TCP/IP, ICMP, HTTP/HTTPS  Others tools pdb, gdb, Redis, MS-Office, AWS, IBM Bluemix, CodeIgniter, AT&T M2X, IBM Watson