Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - Hertz Sunnyvale, CA • Over 8 years of experience as a Web/Application Developer and coding with analytical programming using Python, Django, C++.  • Expert knowledge of Object Oriented Design and Programming concepts.  • Experience in object oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, C++ and PHP.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, PHP, C++, XML, HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Good experience of software development in Python (libraries used: libraries- Beautiful Soup, Numpy, Scipy, Matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas data frame, network, urllib2, MySQL for database connectivity) and IDEs -sublime text, Spyder, pycharm, pytesting, Eclipse, emacs.  • Good knowledge on NoSQL databases like Cassandra, MongoDB.  • Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  • Experience in using Design Patterns such as MVC, Singleton and frameworks such as DJANGO.  • Experience in Python OpenStack API'S.  • Scaling up projects using python tools like multithreading, celery.  • Experienced with full software development life-cycle, architecting scalable platforms, object oriented programming, database design and agile methodologies.  • Experience in using Version Control Systems like GIT, SVN and CVS. Good experience in Linux Bash scripting and following PEP Guidelines in Python.  • Extensively worked on Hudson/Jenkins, Build Forge for continuous integration and for End to End automation for all build and deployments.  • Performed integration of Code Quality Analysis Techniques like Check styles, Find Bugs and PMD with CI tool Hudson/Jenkins.  • Experience with configuration management tools like Chef, Puppet, and Ansible.  • Experience on developing Chef Cookbook for the automation of software installation and configuration of customer infrastructures.  • Experience in maintaining and executing build scripts to automate development and production builds.  • Worked with Chef to aid with deployment process and migrating in house systems to Amazon Cloud Services.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Good experience in Shell Scripting, SQL Server, UNIX and Linux.  • Developed web applications and RESTful web services and APIs using Python Flask, Django and PHP.  • Wrote AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings.  • Wrote MATLAB code to create discretized computer models of sloped levy geometries.  • Experienced in Agile and waterfall methodologies with high quality deliverables delivered on-time.  • Experienced in developing API services in Python/Tornado, Node.JS while leveraging AMQP and RabbitMQ for distributed architectures.  • Experience working with Redis, RabbitMQ for task queues and Celery to manage Asynchronous tasks.  • Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache.  • Good Knowledge of using IDE Tools like Eclipse, NetBeans, Android Studio, Visual Studio, IDLE.  • Experience in developing ColdFusion Components, custom tags and modified CF Objects.  • Experience with Unit testing/ Test driven Development (TDD), Load Testing.  • Experienced in building tools such as ANT, MAVEN, and JENKINS.  • Experience in maintaining all the tools like Bamboo, Bit Bucket, Confluence, JIRA, and GIT.  • Experience in deploying applications in heterogeneous Application Servers TOMCAT, Web Logic and Oracle Application. Server.  • Good experience in Amazon AWS concepts like EMR, S3 and EC2 web services which provides fast and efficient processing of Big Data.  • Good experience with cloud platforms like Amazon AWS and Google App Engine.  • Strong understanding and experience in AWS EC2, network management and datacenter operations.  • Experience in administering and supporting the CM tools including Subversion and CVS on UNIX environments.  • Configured AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) Groups and Users for improved login authentication.  • Good idea using debugging tools like Bugzilla, and JIRA.  • Ability to learn and adapt quickly to the emerging new technologies and paradigms.  • Proficient in designing Model, View, Database Architecture for a given requirement or problem statement irrespective of underlying technology. Work Experience Sr. Python Developer Hertz - Estero, FL January 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Developed Business Logic using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Developed Graphical User Interfaces using CQ5, HTML and ASP's for user interaction Used JavaScript, jQuery for client-side validation. Worked in AJAX to create interactive front-end GUI. Used CSS, CSS2/CSS3for styling the Front-end pages.  • Plan and organize GIS shape files into Geodatabase; create, manage, convergent implement your databases into other file formats as required.  • Perform quality control checks of GIS data and non-spatial databases to ensure data integrity.  • Used JQuery and Ajax calls for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, to build an interactive web based solution.  • Created PHP/MySQL back-end for data entry from Flash  • Used Python based GUI components for the front-end functionality such as selection criteria.  • Created test harness to enable comprehensive testing utilizing Python.  • Developed multiple chef cookbooks from scratch.  • Managing Amazon Web Services (AWS) infrastructure with automation and configuration management tools such as uDeploy, Puppet or custom-built. designing cloud-hosted solutions, specific AWS product suite experience.  • Implemented secured way of Centralized login for AWS users using 389 Directory Services (LDAP) and OpenVPN.  • Implemented Vagrant, a production like virtual development environment for developers.  • Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) for improved efficiency of storage and fast access.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Involved in front end and utilized Bootstrap and Angular.js for page design.  • Responsible for Plug-in Management, User Management and Backup/Disaster Recovery Plan/Implementation (BDR) on Jenkins.  • Created Data tables utilizing PyQt to display customer and policy information and add, delete, update customer records.  • Used PyQuery for selecting particular DOM elements when parsing HTML.  • Used Wireshark, live http headers, and Fiddler2 debugging proxy to debug the Flash object and help the developer create a functional component.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Used Celery framework to develop a new feature to support parallel processes and complete multiple requests simultaneously.  • Created Business Logic using Python to create Planning and Tracking functions  • Created UI Screens for initiation and validation.  • Worked on UI using HTML5, CSS3 and Java Scripts.  • Developed multi-threaded standalone app in Python and PHP to view performance.  • Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Working in team of Architects and Developers to build and deploy Python Flask Peewee Linux AWS.  • Version control using GitHub.  • Have used Confluence to create, share and discuss content and projects.  • Expertise in Using Version management tools Git, bit-bucket and source Tree.  • Involved in writing stored procedures using MySQL.  • Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.    Environment: Python 3.x, Django, Celery, Shell Scripting, AWS, Pandas, PyQt, PyQuery, Wireshark, Flash, DOM, JSON, PHP, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JavaScript, Angular.js, Bootstrap, Apache Web Server, MYSQL, GIS, GitHub, LINUX. Jr. Python Developer Nielsen - Oldsmar, FL March 2015 to December 2016 Responsibilities:  • Complete development and expertise in Rest framework in Django.  • Involved in Developing a Restful service using Python Django framework.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework with GIT.  • Designing Celery and multithreading for scheduling the tasks and multiple activities.  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture.  • Expertise in code review for the code developed by team and suggesting the relevant and appropriate changes.  • Dealing with client regarding the requirements of the projects and taking care of production issues and bugs.  • Experience in various modules like rest framework, mock, freezgun, Numpy etc.;  • Perform Jenkins administration, updating plugins, setting up new projects and debugging build problems.  • Developed unit and functional tests in Python and Ruby.  • Using ANT, Puppet/ Chef Scripts with Ivy to build the application and deploy.  • Configured AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) Groups and Users for improved login authentication.  • Conduct systems design, feasibility and cost studies and recommend cost-effective cloud solutions such as Amazon Web Services (AWS).  • Develop Interactive front end to visualize data from backend and represent in graphical manner to batter understanding for user.  • Front End coding using Angular 2.0 using modules like angular material, angular aria, angular paging, angular google maps, etc.  • Experienced in hand-coding HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, and other UI technologies.  • Experienced in web applications development using Django/ Python, .NET/C#, Flask/ Python, and Node.js, Angular.js, ember.js, jQuery, Ajax while using HTML/CSS/JS for server-side rendered application.  • Developed the entire project using PostgreSQL. Migrating from other databases to PostgreSQL.  • Expertise in developing web-based open stack applications using Python and Django for large dataset analysis.  • Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  • Front-end web development using HTML/CSS, JQuery, Bootstrap as well as back-end development using SQL.  • Used Test driven approach for developing the application and Implemented the unit tests using Python Unit test framework.  • Worked on Atlassian tools like Bamboo, Jira, and confluence.  • Created Branches, Labels and performed Merges in Stash and GIT.  • Administering Code Repositories in SVN and Bit bucket.  • Involved in the complete Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) to develop the application.  • Followed AGILE development methodology to develop the application.  • Used Test driven approach (TDD) for developing services required for the application.  • Implemented Integration test cases.    Environment: Python 2.7/3.5, PyQuery, HTML5, CSS3, Angular 2.0, Shell Scripting, JSON, Rest, Apache Web Server, Django, Celery, Flash, SQL, UNIX, Windows, PostgreSQL, and python libraries such as Numpy, SQLAlchemy, AWS etc. Python Developer Genfare - Elk Grove Village, IL November 2013 to February 2015 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Developing a Restful service using Python Django framework.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework with GIT.  • Designing Celery and multithreading for scheduling the tasks and multiple activities.  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture.  • Perform Jenkins administration, updating plugins, setting up new projects and debugging build problems.  • Using ANT, Puppet/ Chef Scripts with Ivy to build the application and deploy.  • Using Chef and AWS allowed me to reduce costs for the department and eliminate unwarranted resources. Automated provisioning of cloud infrastructure with Chef.  • Configured AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) Groups and Users for improved login authentication.  • Conduct systems design, feasibility and cost studies and recommend cost-effective cloud solutions such as Amazon Web Services (AWS).  • Develop Interactive front end to visualize data from backend and represent in graphical manner to batter understanding for user.  • Experienced in hand-coding HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, and other UI technologies.  • Experience with JavaScript Frameworks Ext JS, AngularJS, jQuery  • Experienced in web applications development using Django/ Python, .NET/C#, Flask/ Python, and Node.js, Angular.js, ember.js, jQuery, Ajax while using HTML/CSS/JS for server-side rendered application.  • Expertise in developing web-based open stack applications using Python and Django for large dataset analysis.  • Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  • Experience in report writing using SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS) and in creating various types of reports like table, matrix, and chart report, web reporting by customizing URL Access.  • Provide high-level technical support and administration for GIS-based routing software.  • Ensure data integrity, performing extensive quality control checks of GIS data and non-spatial databases  • Front-end web development using HTML/CSS, JQuery, Bootstrap as well as back-end development using Golang and SQL.  • Designing and tightly integrating Flash into the CMS with the use of FlashVars stored in the Django models. Also created XML with Django to be used by the Flash.  • Used Test driven approach for developing the application and Implemented the unit tests using Python Unit test framework.  • Responsible for all Public (AWS) and Private (OpenStack/VMWare/DCOS/Mesos/Marathon) cloud infrastructure.  • Supported development team with deployment workflow and continuous integration using Gitlab, GitLab CI, Rundeck, Docker and SaltStack provisioning.  • Worked on Atlassian tools like Bamboo, Jira, and confluence.  • Reviewed and implemented instrument pricing and modelling methodologies in collaboration with technical engineers. Analyzed and documented how instrument prices move as underlying market data sources change.  • Actively participated in requirement gathering sessions and capability planning for multi data center Cassandra cluster.  • Installed, Configured, administered and monitored multi Data center Cassandra clusters.  • Involved in upgrading the present Oracle data model to Cassandra data model.  • Evaluated and tuned data model by running endurance tests using JMeter, Cassandra Stress Tool and OpsCenter.  • Writing bash shell scripts on local setups to automate jobs  • Designed front end using UI, HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Involved in the Complete Software development life cycle (SDLC) to develop the application.  • Full Stack Developer for custom Drupal 7 build. Responsibilities included site maintenance, new feature development and user support.    Environment: Python 2.7, PyQt, .NET, PyQuery, MVW, HTML5, CSS3, DOM, Angular.js, Shell Scripting, JSON, Rest, Apache Web Server, Django, Celery, Flash, SQL, UNIX, Windows, PostgreSQL, and python libraries such as Numpy, SQLAlchemy, Android OS Android 1.5 to Android 6.0 etc Python Developer Pet Supermarket - Sunrise, FL January 2012 to October 2013 Descriptions: This project is to create customer preferences portal (redesign of preferences page) where customers can manage their style and communication preferences; preferences will consist of both explicit and implicit data. This new initiative will introduce a couple of new componen ts or process; which include Building a Preference Metadata Management System, Customer Preference DB , Creating Customer preference Hub to name a few. Loyalty: The Pet Supermarket Marketing Domain team would like to create Star Rewards page (Loyalty 2.0) where customers can manage their rewards. This new initiative will introduce a couple of new components or process; which includeBuilding a EWS, NodeJS and API components in presentation layer and Loyalty in Data layer.    Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed customer preferences portal in Python using Django framework.  • Extensive use of Python / Django Framework for developing some backend components.  • Used secured web services for communication and integrations with other enterprise applications.  • Achieved business process automation via applications developed using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Used Numpy, Scipy, Matplotlib libraries for n-dimensional representation of data and plotting graphs..  • Analyzed the code completely and have reduced the Python code redundancy to an optimal level.  • Improved the website part of the application using Django, and REST API.  • Implemented Ajax calls to get, post, delete REST API calls for upload and delete files.  • Enhanced the design of user interface using Bootstrap framework for Django.  • Worked on writing and as well as read data from CSV, HTML and excel file formats.  • Implemented web scraping using Python's Beautiful Soup library.  • Performed Data framing, Data Analysis, and Data representation using Python Pandas.  • Orchestration of real time data analytics, and batch analytics in SPARK using pyspark module.  • Built python scripts for SparkSQL, to work on database tables for interactive analytics.  • Designed a python script to load transformed data into cloud services (AWS, Azure, and GCP).  • Involved in Sprint planning sessions and participated in the daily Agile SCRUM meetings.  • Conducted every day scrum as part of the SCRUM Master role.  • Wrote python scripts to perform CRUD operations on MySQL database.  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile).  • Involved in unit testing using pytest.  • Performed QA testing on the application.  • Worked on Jenkins continuous integration tool for deployment of project. Deployed the project into Jenkins using GIT version control system.  • Held meetings with design team and worked for the entire project with limited help from the design team.  • Automating the deployment of applications as portable, self-sufficient containers that can run on the cloud or on-premises using Docker.  • Helped various teams to deploy the application on GCP, IBM soft layer and Microsoft Azure.  • Managed Build, Reporting, and documentation using Maven.  • Maintaining release boards in JIRA and ensuring release velocity.    Environment: Python, SparkSQL, Pytest, Pylint, Django REST framework, Bootstrap Framework, AWS, Nodejs, Jenkins, GIT, Zeus, JBOSS, Ruby, MySQL, GCP, Jira, Microsoft AZURE, PEP8. Build and Release Engineer AT&T - Middletown, NJ May 2009 to December 2011 Responsibilities:  • Installation, maintenance, managing and regular upgrading and updating Red Hat Linux Servers,Ubuntu Trust, CentOS, Fedora, Linux on both standalone and virtual environments.  • Installed various software packages such as TCPD, IP-Filter and patching the appropriate software.  • Developed Shell scripts for automation of the build and release process.  • Developed Custom Scripts to monitor repositories, Server storage.  • Performed Branching, Tagging, Release Activities on Version Control Tools SVN.  • Maintained Jenkins servers to deploy into production and nonproduction environments.  • Migrating J2EE applications to UNIX and Windows environments by configuring application viaIDE Eclipse, Subversion, and Jenkins.  • Used ANT to write build scripts as well as deployment scripts.  • Build and maintain SQL scripts and execute different scripts for different environments.  • Deployed Java/J2EE applications to Application servers in an Agile Continuous Integration environment and automated the whole process.  • Configured application servers (JBOSS) to deploy the code.  • Configured plugins for the integration tools to the version control tools.  • Utilize Jira for issue reporting, status, and activity planning.  • Maintained JIRA for tracking and updating project defects and tasks.  • Integrated Apache Maven with Jenkins for the builds as the Continuous Integration process.  • Build Java code and .NET code on to different Jenkins servers as per the schedule.    Environment: Subversion, Perforce, Apache Maven, Jenkins, Jira, Fedora, UNIX, Web Logic, JBOSS, .Net, ANT, J2EE, CentOs. Education Bachelor's Skills Git (6 years), JENKINS (9 years), PYTHON (6 years), APACHE (7 years), JIRA (7 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Languages C, C++, Python, JavaScript, PHP, XML, JAVA, SQL  SCM Tools Subversion, Perforce, Jenkins/Hudson, Sonar, Jira, TFS, Confluence, Clear Case, AccuRev, GIT, GitHub.  Build Tools Ant, Maven, Make  Operating Systems UNIX, Linux, Solaris, Windows, DOS, VMware  Protocols  OSI Reference Model, IPv4 and IPv6 addressing and subnetting, Ethernet LAN, TCP/IP, DNS, HTTP, NFS, SSL, SSH, UDP, switches, routing concepts, virtual network concepts including vSwitch, VLANs, dvSwitch, TCP/IP stack for virtualization, IPVP4, IPV6, FTP, Intranet    Database Postgre SQL, MS Access, SQL Server, MYSQL and Sybase, Oracle, DB2, JDBC, ODBC  Application Servers Web logic, JBoss, IBM WebSphere, Apache tomcat5.5, IIS  Issue Tracking Tools ATLASSIAN JIRA, BUGZILLA, Mantis  Delivery Tools Saltstack, Chef & Puppet