processor intel i5, mySQL database, Python 3.6 technology processor intel i5, mySQL database, <span class="hl">Python</span> 3.6 technology processor intel i5, mySQL database, Python 3.6 technology Houston, TX To pursue a challenging career and be a part of progressive organization that gives a scope to  enhance my knowledge and utilize my skills towards the growth of the organization with  dedication and hard work. Aim to make significant contribution to employer organization. Work Experience processor intel i5, mySQL database, Python 3.6 technology June 2019 to August 2019 Capstone project:  Analysis of Neural Networks Based Heart Disease Prediction System  Predicting the heart diseases using various machine learning and deep learning techniques. (processor intel i5, mySQL database, Python 3.6 technology)  Summer 2019: Predicting molecular properties  Developed an algorithm that can predict the magnetic interaction between two atoms in a molecule (i.e., the scalar coupling constant) using machine learning techniques.  Bachelor's final Year Project: "Tank Terminal Design and Measurements"  The aim of the project is to study and understand the design and measurement  mechanisms involved in Petroleum Terminal Automation System including interfacing  with the ERP (Enterprise Resource planning) system using industry codes and standards.    TRAININGS AND CIRTIFICATIONS:  Certified in "complete python bootcamp go from zero to hero in python 3" in udemy certifications.  Certified 'Graphical System Design - Lab VIEW', the hands on workshop conducted by VI Solutions - Bangalore held in 2015 at PDA College of Engineering, Gulbarga.  Certified training in 'Basic PLC Programming' held in 2016 conducted by Centre of Competence for Automation Technologies - Rexroth Bosch Group. Graduate Teaching Assistant for Electronics circuits and Senior project University of Houston, Clear lake August 2018 to December 2018 Position: Graduate Teaching Assistant for Electronics circuits and Senior project.  Role: Assisting students in the course electronic circuits and helping them with their senior project.  University of Houston, Clear lake, August 2018 to December 2018  Position: Graduate research assistant under Dr. Hakduran Koc( Dean of Computer engineering department)  Role: Assisting professor in his research on Efficient computing in cyber physical system. Intern as web Developer June 2017 to December 2017 Role: Developing a website using MVC.net technology. Education Master of science in Computer Engineering in Computer Engineering University of Houston - Houston, TX Skills Machine learning, C++, Python, Verilog, Mvc, Matlab, Vhdl, Microsoft office Additional Information Technical skills  Programming Languages: C, C++, MVC .net, Python, VHDL, Verilog  Development Tools: Keil Micro-vision, Vivado  MATLAB • Microcontroller Programming • Microsoft Office • People management skills, Machine Learning