Django- Python Developer Django-<span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Django- Python Developer - CISCO Boxborough, MA • 6+ years of experience as a full stack Python developer in designing, implementing, and testing enterprise applications using Python, Java, Django, Spring/Spring boot, Angular, NodeJS and ExpressJS • Overall 12+ years of experience working in IT, computer networks, and telecom supporting a multitude of clients from logistics, telecom, healthcare, and finance.  • Accomplished in front-end development with Python 3.6, Django 2.0, HTML5, CSS3, XML, JSON, JavaScript, Bootstrap, Angular, Express.js and Node.js • Knowledgeable of various Python libraries such as, BeautifulSoup, TkInter, SQLAlchemy, NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib, and Pandas.  • Experience in Object-Oriented Programming within networks as well as online applications.  • Extensive experience using and creating SOAP and RESTful API's using Node.js, Express.js, and Django.  • Experience in creating/querying and maintaining databases with MySQL, MongoDB, Cassandra, SQLite, PostgreSQL, and Oracle.  • Developed various screens for the front end using Angular.  • Experience with version control software like Git and unit testing • Used Node Package Manager (NPM) to manage or install the Node JS modules like Grunt, Gulp, Express.JS, mongoose, body-parser, and jwt-simple /express-jwt for line-of-business project.  • Hands on Experience on Angular CLI(Command Line Interface).  • Delivered project needs in a mixed methodology environment as they moved to an Agile Methodology.  • Experience with workflow tools like JIRA to track tasks, progress, and bugs.  • Experience working in container environments with virtualenv, and Docker.  • Professional level of communication and organization skills, detail oriented and very motivated.  • Extensive experience in leadership and project management from small to million dollar projects.  • Well knowledgeable of Django 2.0 and Flask for architecting, implementing, and deploying webapps using Docker in the AWS cloud environment.  • Have used Python Web Scraping tools for extracting specific data from websites,, building word counting applications using Matplotlib. Used git for version control.  • Experienced using third party ORM like SQLalchemy.  • Good knowledge of AWS Lambda.  • Experienced in Bash Shell Scripting in Linux, Ansible, Docker, and Kubernetes.  • Good knowledge of Java EE using Hibernate, and Spring/Spring boot application development.  • Knowledgeable on Apache Spark, PySpark, Hadoop, and R, in the AWS cloud environment. Work Experience Django- Python Developer CISCO - Boxborough, MA October 2018 to Present Cisco Systems, Inc. engages in the design, manufacture, and sale of Internet Protocol based networking products and services related to the communications and information technology industry. I came in as part of a team to maintain, automate deployment, improve the ETL process, and integrate visualization and machine learning tools into an analytical software application for any network environment. My primary responsibility was to improve the Ansible deployment process to support most Linux distributions and bring Docker containers into the picture, improve the Django analytical application, rework the ETL p rocess, and integrate D3.JS visualization and APIs, create visual and csv reports of network data collected from major telecom/cellular companies and ecosystem, and used KPIs to leverage machine learning tools to build a self-healing platform that can respond and correct telecom/cellular network issues.    Responsibilities - • Involved in the design, implementation, testing, and deployment pipeline creation of an analytical web app used by major telecom/cellular companies for collecting, analyzing, visualizing, and reporting on data collected from network devices.  • Improved the Ansible deployment process to support all Linux distributions and introduced Docker containers and Kubernetes into this process.  • Used various tools like Ansible, Python, Django, Postgresql, RESTful APIs, Nginx, RabbitMQ, Celery, LogStash, StreamSets, Kafka, CSV and JSON data as part of a team to deploy the web app in the client's data center or Cisco cloud environment.  • Implemented Postgresql CRUD (Create, Read, Update, Delete) operations by using Django, and psycopg2 dependency.  • Participated in daily standup meetings, and modules status implementation with business analysts.  • Helped implement modules and consume REST webservices in JSON format using Django.  • Leveraged Django RESTful framework to create endpoints to respond to HTTP actions get/put/delete/post requests.  • Authenticated or created custom permissions using Python and Django REST framework for API requests.  • Applied rate-limiting mechanisms using Python and Django to throttle users' API requests to prevent the site from being overloaded.  • Build an ETL pipeline using Pentaho Spoon, Spark, Hadoop, HDFS for customers with large data volume.  • Used Mecurial for source control to manage module integration.    Environment - Ansible, Django, Python, PostgreSQL, Redis, Nginx, RabbitMQ, Celery, Kafka, LogStash, Docker, Kubernetes, CSV, JSON, Mercurial, PyCharm, VSCode, and Linux (Ubuntu / Debian / CentOS / Fedora / RedHat). Angular- Python Developer JET Distribution - Teterboro, NJ March 2017 to September 2018 JET Distribution is a dedicated service provider in public warehousing with a goal of achieving a rating of excellent among all those we serve. They provide general warehousing services including pick-pack, order fulfillment and administrative control of your business demands. This project grew out of the need to move out of their legacy inventory tracking system software on a nonnetworked/stand-alone computer for their single warehouse. I came in as part of a team to build a new inventory application in the AWS environment using EC2 VMs, Load Balancers, MySQL, and an automated deployment process implemented using AWS Code Pipeline. My primary responsibility was to build the product-entry and product-list modules, but later evolved into creating the Web APIs for this and other modules.    Responsibilities - • Involved in the design, implementation, testing, and deployment pipeline creation of an inventory web app for the warehousing unit of a distribution company.  • Implemented the product-entry and product-list modules of the project to help replace the company's legacy inventory application running on an isolated computer running Microsoft SQL database, with a web application in the AWS cloud environment running MySQL.  • Used Python, Django, Angular2, MongoDB, MySQL, RESTful APIs, and JSON as part of a team to deploy the web app in AWS.  • Implemented different Angular modules, components, directives, and common services used throughout the modules of the project.  • Architected and implemented Angular Route Module to implement routing, lazy-routing, role-based-routing for Single Page Application (SPA).  • Worked extensively with Angular CLI for creating Components, Services, Pipes, Routes and Directives.  • Implemented MongoDB CRUD (Create, Read, Update, Delete) operations by using Mongoose library in Node JS.  • Participated in daily standup meetings, and modules status implementation with business analysts.  • Helped implement modules and consume REST webservices in JSON format using Django.  • Leveraged Django RESTful framework to create endpoints to respond to HTTP actions get/put/delete/post requests.  • Authenticated or created custom permissions using Python and Django REST framework for API requests.  • Applied rate-limiting mechanisms using Python and Django to throttle users' API requests to prevent the site from being overloaded.  • Used Gitkraken/Git for source control to manage module integration.  • Created test cases using Python and Django for the different modules.  • Code issue tracking and resolution using online spreadsheets.    Environment - Angular2, Angular CLI, Django, Python, MongoDB, MySQL, JSON, Material Design, Gitkraken/Git, VSCode, and AWS Python Developer VERIZON - Township of Warren, NJ January 2015 to February 2017 Verizon Communications, Inc. engages in the provision of wireless communications products and services. It operates through Wireless, and Wireline segments. The Wireless segment provides wireless voice and data services and equipment sales, which are provided to consumer, business, and government customers. The IVR Migration project grew out of Verizon's need to replace their legacy Avaya IVR/Interactive-Voice-Response system. Instead, Verizon decided to build its own IVR system using Python, Java, MySQL, Cassandra, on the AWS environment by outsourcing the initial workload of the project. I was part of the outsourcing project to create a front end for this new IVR platform.    Responsibilities - • Part of the Interactive Voice Response (IVR) migration project from proprietary Avaya to an in-house custom built platform.  • Involved in the design, implementation, and testing of the front end for the Interactive Voice Response (IVR) system.  • Used Python, Django, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, RESTful APIs, JSON, XML, Cassandra, MongoDB, and Oracle SQL as part of a team to create the front end for the IVR system in AWS.  • Part of daily standup meetings, and modules status implementation with business analysts.  • Helped implement modules and consume REST webservices in JSON and XML format.  • Used SourceTree/Git for source control to manage module integration.  • Created test cases for the different modules.  • Code issue tracking and resolution using Jira. Postman British Telecom - East Hanover, NJ June 2013 to December 2014 East Hanover NJ Jun 2013 - Dec 2014  Python Developer  BT Group Plc provides communication solutions and services. Its principal activities include fixed-lines services, broadband, mobile and TV products and services as well as networked IT services. The Global Services segment provides business communications and supplies ICT services. This TT/Technical Transformation project was part of replacing legacy networking equipment, improving or implementing troubleshooting and testing automation using Python for network related issues for a global client. I came in to help build these tools for the Network Operations Center or NOC.    Responsibilities - • Collaborating in a global team for creating automation tools to support a global network infrastructure.  • Used Python to build tools or applications to automate monitoring services to a global client.  • Helped automate network tasks with Python and supported libraries.  • Leverage Ansible framework in order to achieve network monitoring related goals.  • Created Python apps to automate networking tasks like device configuration using SSH or Telnet, and network discovery using SNMP.  • Involved in penetration testing exercises of the network and web apps like SQL injection, command injection, XSS attacks, CSRF attacks, DOS attacks, and buffer overflow attacks.  • Code issue tracking and resolution using Remedy. Network Technologist Novartis Pharmaceuticals - East Hanover, NJ November 2010 to May 2013 Novartis AG is a holding company, which engages in the development, manufacture, and marketing of healthcare products. It operates through the following segments: Innovative Medicines, Alcon, Sandoz, and Corporate. The Innovative Medicines segment researches, develops, manufactures, distributes and sells patented pharmaceuticals, and is composed of two business units: Novartis Oncology and Novartis Pharmaceuticals. The Alcon segment researches, develops, manufactures, distributes and sells eye care devices and vision care. The Sandoz segment develops, manufactures and markets finished dosage form medicines as well as intermediary products including active pharmaceutical ingredients. The Corporate segment refers to group management and central services. Around 2007, Novartis pharmaceuticals decided to outsource the management of their global network infrastructure. I was part of this project to create software testing/troubleshooting tools for the network operations center, and assist in the implementation of the technical transformation of the network infrastructure for their New Jersey / New York headquarter and data centers, and create automation tools for testing and troubleshooting of network related issues for the NOC.    Responsibilities - • Used Python to help create automation tools for testing and troubleshooting of network related issues for the Network Operations Center (NOC).  • Part of the technical transformation project that installed and upgraded over 200 Cisco switches, routers, and wireless devices.  • Installed Cisco devices 3750/4507/6509-E series switches, and 3825/3845/3945 routers.  • Troubleshooter network issues using tools like ping, traceroute, Cisco Prime, and ethereal/Wireshark.  • First line of contact for customer related issues.  • Part of a 24/7 support team for infrastructure related issues or outages.  • Issue tracking and resolution using Remedy ticketing platform. Telecom Engineer Newedge Usa Llc - New York, NY October 2008 to October 2010 New York NY Oct 2008 - Oct 2010  Telecom Engineer  As of January 2, 2015, Newedge USA, LLC was acquired by SG Americas Securities Holdings, LLC. Newedge USA, LLC offers brokerage services to institutional investors and fund managers. It specializes in bond, currency, and commodities trading, as well as derivative products and foreign exchange. The company also develops a program for portfolio margining of broad-based index options and corresponding exchange-traded funds. Newedge USA, formerly known as Fimat USA, LLC. Here, I project managed, architected, and helped implement the migration and installation of a new telecom and recording system and supporting servers for a financial trading floor of over 300 users and along the way helped the company save thousands of dollars.    Responsibilities - • Part of a project to migrate and implement a new telecom and recording system for this financial trading floor.  • Project managed this $1.3 million installation of a turret telecom system and saved the company $300K in the process for perfectly matching the business needs with the product offerings from the vendor.  • Worked with the compliance department in retrieving recorded calls during government investigations.  • Procured DIDs, direct lines, T1/PRI voice circuits, and manage vendor relationships.  • Part of a 24/7 support team for infrastructure related issues or outages.  • Issue tracking and resolution using Jira ticketing platform.    Environment - Proprietary telecom and NICE recording systems, Nortel PBX, Cisco routers and switches, Wireshark, Linux/Windows servers, and Jira ticketing system. Telecom Engineer Etrali Trading Solutions - New York, NY December 2006 to September 2008 Etrali Trading Solutions provides voice and electronic trading infrastructure and services for the financial communities. It also offers voice trading solutions and compliance products, including mobile recording and business continuity capabilities. Etrali Trading Solutions was formerly known as Orange Business Services - Trading Solutions and changed its name to Etrali Trading Solutions in June 2013. Recently acquired by IPC. I was part of various small to medium to large projects for financial institution to install, move, or upgrade their telecom and recording systems and supporting servers.    Responsibilities - • Part of multiple telecom and voice recording projects for a diverse clientele of financial institutions.  • Implemented and managed turret telecom systems, NICE recorders, and Linux/Microsoft servers.  • Wrote training manuals for their trading staff, telecom and compliance departments.  • Collaborated and managed (4) member teams for trading floor relocation and upgrades.  • Part of a 24/7 support team for infrastructure related issues or outages.  • Issue tracking and resolution using Jira and Heat ticketing platform.    Environment - Proprietary telecom and NICE recording systems, Nortel PBX, Cisco routers and switches, Wireshark, Linux/Windows servers, and Jira and Heat ticketing system. Education M.S. in Computer Science NEW JERSEY INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY - Newark, NJ M.S. in Management STEVENS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY - Hoboken, NJ B.S. in Electrical and Computer Engineering Technology NEW JERSEY INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY - Newark, NJ Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Programming Languages: Python, Java, JavaScript, TypeScript, C#, Scala, and PL/SQL  Databases: MySQL, MongoDB, Oracle SQL, SQLlite, PostgreSQL, SQLAlchemy, and Cassandra  Web Development: Angular2, Angular CLI, Node.js, Express.js, Django 2.0, Flask, JSP, JSF, Hibernate, Spring, Spring Boot, JSON, XML, VoiceXML, HTML, and CSS  Other Tools: Linux, Apache Spark, Hadoop, R, Git, Maven, Jenkins, Docker, Kubernetes, Bash Shell Scripting, AWS, SOAP and Restful APIs, Chef, Puppet, Scala, Unity5, Android/Flutter Development, Unity3d, and Linux  Python Module: Numpy, SciPy, Matplotlib, Pandas, Scrapy, Tkinter, BeautifulSoup, SQLAlchemy, Unittest,pyspark and Pymongo