Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Sonikpass St. Louis, MO • 8+ Years of experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Testing, Customization, Bug fixes, Enhancement, Support and Implementation of various web, stand-alone, client-server enterprise applications using Python, C, Django in various domains.  • Experienced in Object Oriented Programming (OOP) concept using Python, C++ and PHP.  • Experienced with full software development, architecture scalable platforms, database design, etc.  • Excellent knowledge on Predictive Modelling using python and K-mean Clustering for Python Machine Language.  • Experience in working with Python ORM Libraries including Django ORM.  • Experienced in designing web pages and Graphical user interfaces, front end layouts on the web by using HTML, DHTML, CSS, Bootstrap framework, PHP, XML, JavaScript, node JS and Angular JS.  • Developed Web-based applications using Python, Amazon Web Services, jQuery, CSS and Model View control frameworks like Django, Flask and JavaScript.  • Good experience with design, coding, debug operations, reporting and data analysis utilizing python and using python libraries to speed up development.  • Libraries used: Pandas data frame, network, Beautiful soup, NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib, urlib2, JSON libraries and MySQL database for connectivity.  • Hands on experience with Big Data environment on technologies including Hadoop.  • Experience customizing JIRA projects with various schemas, complex workflows, screen schemes, permission schemes, and notification schemes.  • Experiences with Unit testing/ Test Driven Development (TDD), and Load testing.  • Knowledge on JSON BASED REST, SOAP and Amazon Web Services cloud platform and its features which includes EC2, AMI, EBS CloudWatch, Auto-scaling, IAM user management and AWS S3.  • Managed servers on the Amazon Web Services (AWS) platform instances using Puppet, chef configuration management.  • Good experience coding in using various IDEs like NetBeans, Sublime Text, Spyder, PyCharm.  • Worked on Python OpenStack API's.  • Good in writing Sub Queries, stored procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL databases.  • Good in developing, implementing, and improving processes by bringing engineering, Operations, QA, and Product Management.  • Excellent debugging, problem solving, optimization and testing skills.  • Hands-on experience on monitoring tools like Nagios and Amazon Cloud Watch to maintain properly various systems on different environments.  • Created Secured Cloud infrastructure using (VPC) for Staging and Development environment on AWS.  • Developed Cloud Formation templates, also launched AWS Elastic Beanstalk for deploying, monitoring and scaling web applications using different platforms like Java, Docker, Python etc.  • Expertise in AWS Resources like EC2, S3, EBS, VPC, ELB, AMI, SNS, RDS, IAM, Route 53, Auto scaling, Cloud Formation, Cloud Watch, Security Groups.  • Working experience with cloud infrastructure of AWS (Amazon Web Services) and computing  AMI virtual machines on Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2).  • Experience in executing Organization DevOps methodology in different situations of LINUX and Windows servers alongside adopting cloud procedures based on Amazon Web Services.  • Involved in integrating the GIT into the Puppet to ensure the integrity of applications by creating Production, Development, Test, and Release Branches.  • Maintained Git repositories for DevOps environment: Version control and build automation integrating git into Jenkins.  • Have experience with AWS LAMBDA which runs the code with response of events.  • Developed custom Ansible playbook and integrated in Jenkins post configuration for setting up the automated build pipeline for GIT repository projects.  • Experience in handling errors/exceptions and debugging the issues in large scale applications. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Sonikpass - San Francisco, CA August 2017 to Present The Project is based on the bulk messaging services and Oauth module. It provides secure auth and messaging services to all companies. Also make Web & iOS Application on Different Client Requirements and also maintain that web applications.    Responsibilities:  • Developed the application using agile methodology and Scrum method of project management.  • Developed web applications in Django Framework's model view control (MVC) architecture.  • Exposure on Multi-Threading factory to distribute learning process back-testing and into various worker processes.  • Performed efficient delivery of code based on principles of Test Driven Development (TDD) and continuous integration to keep in line with Agile Software methodology principles.  • Different testing methodologies like unit testing, Integration testing, web application testing  • Worked very closely with designer, tightly integrating Flash into the CMS with the use of FlashVars stored in the Django models.  • Design and implement Provisioning Server 5.6 upgrade to Provisioning Server 6.1.  • Developed test scripts for automation with Selenium.  • Python/Django based web application, Postgre sql DB, and integrations with 3rd party email, messaging, storage services.  • Architected, designed and implemented SAML and symmetric key based Single Sign On service provider systems.  • Build development environment with JIRA.  • Implemented multi-site Enterprise SOA using Oracle SOA Suite and also worked in SOA architecture WebSphere Message broker for integration.  • Also Created Angular JS controllers, directives, models for different modules of the application.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins,  MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash  • Involved in converting Hive/SQL queries into Spark transformations using Spark RDDs, Python.  Environment: Python, Django1.4, HTML/CSS, MS SQL Server 2012, MySQL, Script, Eclipse, GIT, GitHub, AWS, Linux, Shell Scripting. Python Developer Caterpillar - Peoria, IL August 2015 to July 2017 It is a database and tool designed to store all products information. It provides summary and detailed information about products, down to procedure and diagnosis descriptions of services. It is used by businesses to build and maintain products, plans and services.    Responsibilities:  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment  • Participated in the complete SDLC process  • Developed user interface using CSS, HTML, JavaScript and JQuery  • Wrote Python modules to extract/load asset data from the MySQL source database  • Designed and implemented a dedicated MYSQL database server to drive the web apps and report on daily progress  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface  • Used Django framework for application development  • Created entire application using Python, Django, MySQL and Linux.  • Utilize PyUnit, the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications  • Enhanced existing automated solutions, such as the Inquiry Tool for automated Asset Department reporting and added new features and fixed bugs  • Created database using MySQL, wrote several queries to extract/store data.  • Developed, tested and debugged software tools utilized by clients and internal customers  • Coded test programs and evaluated existing engineering processes  • Designed and configured database and back end applications and programs  • Resolved ongoing problems and accurately documented progress of a project  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Also used Bootstrap as a mechanism to manage and organize the html page layout.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django, HTML5/CSS, MS SQL Server 2013, MySQL, JavaScript, Eclipse, Linux, Shell Scripting, JQuery, GitHub, Angular.JS, Jira. Python Developer Huawei Technologies - Bellevue, WA September 2013 to July 2015 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. is a Chinese multinational networking, telecommunications equipment, and services company headquartered in Shenzhen, Guangdong. Huawei was founded in 1987 by Ren Zhengfei, a former engineer in the People's Liberation Army. It is the largest telecommunications equipment manufacturer in the world, having overtaken Ericsson in 2012. At the time of its establishment, Huawei focused on manufacturing phone switches, but has since expanded its business to include building telecommunications networks, providing operational and consulting services and equipment to enterprises inside and outside of China, and manufacturing communications devices for the consumer market.    Responsibilities:  • Business logic implementation, data exchange, XML processing and graphics creation has been done using Python and Django.  • Views and Templates were developed with Python and to create a user-friendly website interface Django's view controller and template language is used.  • Developed UI using CSS, HTML, JavaScript, AngularJS, jQuery and JSON.  • A Django dashboard with custom look and feel for end user has been created after a careful study of the Django admin site and dashboard.  • JIRA was used to build an environment for development.  • Used web applications development using Django/ Python, Flask/ Python, and, jQuery, Ajax while using HTML/CSS/JS for server-side rendered application.  • Different testing methodologies like unit testing, Integration testing, web application testing, selenium testing was performed. Used Django framework for application development.  • Developed user interface using, CSS, HTML, JavaScript and jQuery &Ruby on rails.  • Cleaned data and processed third party spending data into maneuverable deliverables within specific formats with Excel macros and python libraries.  • Used several python libraries like wxPython, NumPy, and matplotlib.  • Was involved in the environment, code installation as well as the SVN implementation.  • Build all database mapping classes using Django models and Cassandra.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Hands on experience with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  • Developed, tested and debugged software tools utilized by clients and internal customers  • Coded test programs and evaluated existing engineering processes.  • Designed and configured database and back end applications and programs.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django, C++, JavaScript, SQL Server, HTML, DHTML, Jenkins, CSS, Linux, jQuery, JSON, AJAX. Python Developer Bloomberg - New York, NY September 2011 to August 2013 Bloomberg L.P. provides financial software tools such as an analytics and equity trading platform, data services, and news to financial companies and organizations through the Bloomberg Terminal. Its core revenue-generating product. Bloomberg L.P. also includes a wire service(Bloomberg News), a global television network (Bloomberg Television), digital websites, a radio station (WBBR), subscription-only newsletters, and three magazines.    Responsibilities:  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Designed and created backend data access modules using PL/SQL stored procedures and Oracle.  • Used Python scripts to generate various reports like transaction history, OATS, user privileges, limit rules and commission schedule reports.  • Worked on parsing of JSON data to be used in the project received by API calls using Python Request library.  • Writing Python scripts with Cloud Formation templates to Automate installation of Auto scaling, EC2, VPC, and other services.  • Developed the back-end web services for the worker using python and REST APIs.  • Implemented MVC architecture in developing the web application by Django framework.  • Used Test driven approach for developing the application and Implemented the unit tests using Python Unit test framework.  • Created PHP/MySQL back-end for data entry from Flash and worked in tandem with the Flash developer to obtain the correct data through query string.  • Enhanced the application by using HTML and Java script for design and development.  • Responsibilities for creation of Database, Business Logic to display the records dynamically on template based on query, providing user permission to access features of the site.  • Using Django evolution and manual SQL modifications was able to modify Django models, while retaining all data, while sight was in production mode.  • Deployed the project into Heroku using GIT version control system.  • Resolved ongoing problems and accurately documented progress of a project.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.3, HTML5, CSS, Bootstrap, XML, AJAX, JSON, Blaze, jQuery, Oracle 11g/10i, MySQL, RESTful API's, Linux, ROBOT framework, Soap UI. Baker Hill The Riverside Company - Carmel, IN July 2009 to August 2011 Software Developer  A trusted leader in financial technology, our innovative solution streamlines origination and portfolio management for business, consumer direct and indirect lending, while our award-winning business intelligence tools mitigate risk and generate growth-all through a single, integrated platform. In 2010, Baker Hill was acquired by a $4.6 billion global private equity firm, The Riverside Company. With this acquisition came an aggressive commitment to continuous innovation to develop world-class solutions that help drive more profitable relationships for our clients. We provide Loan originating software to various banks which is cloud based.    Responsibilities:  • As Agile team member, we were responsible for Product backlogs, Story grooming sessions, releasing planning, Spring planning, stand ups, Retrospective meetings and demos.  • Planning the development for sprint planning and task creation and task assignment.  • Experience working in agile development environment and Test Driven development.  • Experience with Cloud based Loan Origination web application.  • Experience with HTC web UI controls.  • Worked with MTC Integrity source control.  • Used Trello for Story/task tracking.  • Worked with SAP to deal with business objects.  • Used SSIS to created packages for reporting database.  • Used JavaScript for client side scripting and validation.  • Used SQL server 2014 as backend database and worked on Functions, Stored procedures and views.  • Worked with DevExpress to integrate HTML editor in to the application and customized DevExpresscontrols as needed.  • Worked with HMDA data to make them reportable in case of mortgage loan to Federal Reserve board.  • Used Cruise Control for automation build and deploy.  • Experience dealing with credit report, Risk management data.  • Worked on Statement analyzer tool enhancements to generate reports different reports  Environment: ASP.Net 4.6, SQL server 2014, JavaScript, DevExpress, JQuery, C#, HTC controls, Visual studio 2012/2017, IIS, Azure, C#, Windows 10, MKS, Trello, Cruise Control, SAP Education Bachelor's Skills SQL (8 years), jQuery (8 years), USER INTERFACE (8 years), MS SQL SERVER (6 years), SQL SERVER (6 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:    Languages Python, C++, SQL, PL/SQL.  IDE's PyCharm, Emacs, Eclipse, NetBeans, MS Visual Studio, Sublime, SOAP UI.  Web Technologies/other  Django, Flask, Pyramid, Servlets, JSP, AJAX, HTML5, CSS3, XML/XSD, X Path, XSLT, Java Script, jQuery, Web Services (Soap, Restful), Amazon Webservices like EC2, S3, ELB, EBS, SES, Selenium, PyUnit.    Databases SQL Server, Oracle 9i/10g/11g, MySQL, PostgreSQL, SQLite, Cassandra.  Frameworks Django, Flask, Bootstrap, QT CherryPy, web2py, Tornado, Pyramid, Robot  Web Servers JBoss 4.0.5, BEA Web Logic, Web Sphere, Apache Tomcat 5.5/6.0  Version Controls SVN, VSS, CVS, Git.    Operating Systems MS Windows 9X/NT/XP/2003, Linux/Unix, Sun Solaris, OS X.  Building& Design Tools ANT, MAVEN, Gulp, UML, IBM Rational Rose, Ansible, JIRA, GNU Debugger Bugzilla    Methodologies Agile, Scrum, Waterfall.