Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - Rakuten, Inc Seattle, WA ? 9 years of experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Management and Implementation of various stand-alone, client-server enterprise applications.  ? Experienced of software development in Python (libraries used: libraries- Beautiful Soup, NumPy, scipy, matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas data frame, network, urllib2, MySQL dB for database connectivity) and IDEs- sublime text, Spyder, pycharm, Emacs.  ? Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, PHP, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and JQuery, AJAX.  ? Hands-on experiences in Python scripting, Python STL, Pylons, Django, UI and web development.  ? Experience in working with AWS: Amazon S3, Amazon EC2, and Amazon SQS.  ? Good understanding of Object-Oriented Technologies and Relational Database Systems.  ? Good Knowledge of Agile Methodologies (Scrum)  ? Strong experience in Shell Scripting, SQL Server, Linux, and Open stack.  ? Experienced in writing SQL Queries, Stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, triggers.  ? Knowledge of advanced level programming in C/C++ including thread synchronization multithreading, multi-processing, concurrency and TCP/IP Socket Programming.  ? Knowledge of servers Apache Tomcat, Web logic, and Apache HTTP.  ? Strong Experience in working with Python ORM Libraries including Django ORM, SQLAlchemy.  ? Expertise in working with GUI frameworks - PyJamas, Jython.  ? Good knowledge of web services with protocols SOAP, REST.  ? Have Experience in working with server side technologies including databases, restful API and MVC design patterns.  ? Experienced in NoSQL technologies like MongoDB, Cassandra and relational databases like Oracle, SQLite, PostgreSQL, Dynamo DB and MySQL databases.  ? Very strong experience writing API's and Web Services in PHP and Python.  ? Expert level skills in HTML, CSS, and JavaScript including familiarity with common libraries like jQuery, Foundation, Bootstrap and Backbone.  ? Skilled in debugging/troubleshooting issues in complex applications.  ? Experience in J2EE Architecture (JSP, JDBC, Data Source, JNDI, JMS, Servlets)  ? Experience in working with different operating systems WINDOWS, LINUX, and iOS.  ? Experience in configuration management and deployment tools like Chef, Puppet, Ansible, Saltstack, JIRA and Fabric.  CORE TECH SKILLS  ? LAMP, WAMP, Zend Framework PHP, Apache, GIT, Linux, Ubunto, UNIX, JavaScript, Angular.js, Node.js, React.JS Backbone.js, D3.js, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap.js, EXT-JS, Ajax, JQuery, MySQL, Linux, Unix. Work Experience Sr. Python Developer Rakuten, Inc - Charlotte, NC August 2015 to Present Accountabilities:  ? Designed front end and backend of the application utilizing Python on Django Web Framework.  ? For the dashboard utilized the Python web development framework TurboGear.  ? For the development of the user interface of the website used HTML, CSS, Java Script and AJAX  ? Experience in developing views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  ? To update a portion of a webpage used JavaScript and JSON.  ? Expertise in developing consumer based features and applications with Python, Django, HTML, Behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pair based programming.  ? Controlled modules that allow applications to be built on top of the web, irc or the command line using Giotto.  ? Modify the existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  ? Have work knowledge on JIRA (Agile) for the bug tracking of the project.  ? Worked on a lightweight Web framework emphasizing flexibility and rapid development with the help of pylons.  ? Written Python scripts to parse JSON documents and load the data in database.  ? The data manipulations on the client side is done by using JQuery.  ? Made reusable Widgets using concepts familiar from GUI programming with Reahl.  ? For the development of the web applications utilized CSS and Bootstrap.  ? To share the information across the applications used pickle/unpickle in python.  ? Utilized Python libraries like NumPy and matplotlib for generating graphical reports.  ? Experienced with GIT version control and deployed the project to Heroku.  ? Worked with Zope frameworks include the ZODB, an object database for Python.  ? Worked on the development of SQL and stored procedures for normalization and renormalization in MYSQL.  ? Independent template engine agnostic (integration with: jinja2, mako, tenjin and wheezy template) plus html widgets.  ? Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  ? Developed full stack Python web framework with an emphasis on simplicity, flexibility, and extensibility. It is built atop excellent components and reinvents zero wheels. WSGI, routing, templating, forms, data, plugins, config, events, SQLAlchemy, Storm, CouchDB, OpenID, AppEngine, Jquery, etc.  ? Executed MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package to retrieve information.  ? Skilled in using Collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  ? Created a database independent web Framework, with a clear and intuitive syntax using Karrigell.  ? Involved in Design, Development, Deployment, Testing, and Implementation of the application.  ? Prototyped an augmented reality solution in the form of a video using Premiere Pro, Pylatte and Python, Git Adobe After Effects.  ? Implemented the application in UNIX environment and comfortable with all its commands.  ? Designed and implemented a machine learning based system for categorizing customer contacts (tickets and live chat transcripts) which allows for faster reaction time for emerging issues.    Background Skills: Python, Django, PostgreSQL, Flask, scipy, Pandas, HTML5, Karrigell, Pylatte, Glashammer, and Zope2, wheezy. Web, Reahl, Pylons, Giotto, TurboGears, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, JSON, MySQL, JIRA, JQuery, Bootstrap, MS SQL Server, Git, GitHub and Shell Scripting. Sr. Python Developer Charter Communications - GE August 2013 to July 2015 Accountabilities:  ? Developed and maintained a content management system built from initial stage.  ? Handled development and management of front end user interfaces with help of HTML, CSS, JQuery and JavaScript.  ? Worked on Django for web application development.  ? Experienced in developing a portal to manage and entities in a content management system using Python and Django.  ? CMS is the backend application for a consumer-facing website.  ? CMS involved ingesting data from heterogeneous sources, producing directly renderable data as a RESTful service.  ? CMS application was an internal application, used by subject matter experts (SME) for curation of data for accuracy.  ? Interacted regularly with SMEs to understand requirements and incorporate them into the application.  ? Worked on Virtual env for sandboxing and application isolation.  ? For Text Search in the application used Haystack.  ? Module installation and Dependency Management is done by pip.  ? UI interactions are done with the help of JQuery.  ? Worked on Ajax for Asynchronous server calls.  ? Implemented the application in a Linux environment.  ? Utilized SQLite database for development and SQL server for production.  ? Written Scripts to establish continuous workflows from different teams providing data.  ? Utilized GIT for Source code control and JIRA for Bug tracking.  ? For Documentation used Confluence.  ? Collaborated with other developers to handle complicated issues related with deployment of Django based applications.  ? Analyzed the Business Requirement Documents and made the Technical Specification Documents.  ? In order to prevent, detect and claim the duplicate member entries implemented business logic in Python.  ? Re-designed various modules for executing changes and made efficient system.  ? Created Map Reduce programs in Python to reconcile the existing member history and new files.  ? Developed dynamic web pages to view the reports generated utilizing Django Framework.  ? Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  ? By utilizing Python on Django Web Framework developed entire frontend and backend modules.  ? Used Django configuration to manage URLs and Application Parameters.  ? Written Python Scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  ? Worked with JSON based REST Web Services and Amazon Web Services (AWS)  ? Utilized Jenkins to deploy the Django application and run unit tests.  ? Developed tools using Python, Shell Scripting, XML to automate some of the menial ta  Background Skills: Python, Django, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, MySQL, JIRA, JQuery, SQLite, SQL Server, Haystack, Virtualenv, pip, GIT, RESTful and Linux, Karrigell, Pylatte, Glashammer, Zope2, wheezy. Web, Reahl, Pylons, Giotto, TurboGears. Sr. Python Developer General Electric Corp - Bloomfield, CT March 2011 to July 2013 Accountabilities:  ? Application was based on service-oriented architecture and used Python, Django, JSF, spring, Ajax, HTML, CSS for the frontend.  ? Designed the front end of the application using Python, Java, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON and jQuery. Worked on backend of the application, mainly using Active Records.  ? Analyzed system requirements specifications and in client interaction during requirements specifications.  ? Worked on Analysis and Design of application.  ? Created UI using JavaScript and HTML5/CSS3.  ? Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, ROBOT framework, Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript.  ? Writing backend programming in Python.  ? Used JavaScript and XML to update a portion of a webpage and Node.js for server-side interaction.  ? Implemented web applications in Flask and spring frameworks following MVC architecture.  ? Used spring, JDBC and JPA at persistence layer (DAO)  ? Used Robot Framework, RIDE and developed few test suites for testing application.  ? Used Adobe CQ for helping with reusing the components and templates for creating different web pages.  ? Develop consumer-based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML, Behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pair-based programming.  ? Performed Unit testing, Integration Testing, GUI and web application testing using Spec.  ? Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery.  ? Experience with advanced CSS concepts and building table-free layouts.  ? Worked on front-end frameworks like CSS Bootstrap for development of Web applications.  ? Experienced in writing SQL Queries and implementing stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, Cursors, triggers.  ? Collaborate with Product Management and User Experience experts regarding product definition, schedule, scope and project-related decisions.  ? Develop digital consumer experiences based on foundation of the Adobe CQ/AEM product suite.  ? Manage, collaborate and coordinate the work of an offshore development team.  ? Special skills in developing user-friendly, simple yet effective web-based applications.  ? Deployed the project into Heroku using GIT version control system.  ? Worked in MySQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization and renormalization.  ? Used many regular expressions to match the pattern with the existing one.  ? Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  ? Skilled in using collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user-defined objects.  ? Work with team of developers on python applications for RISK management.  ? Taken part in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  ? Used Pandas library for statistics Analysis.  ? Used NumPy for Numerical analysis for Insurance premium.  ? Improved code reuse and performance by making effective use of various design patterns.  ? Created most important Business Rules which are useful for the scope of project and needs of customers.  ? Designed the architecture of the hardware environments and methodology of the code.  ? Experienced in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM Process.  ? Worked in development of applications especially in Linux environment and familiar with all its commands.    Background Skills: Python, Django, Cassandra, Linux, HTML, CSS, Node.js, JavaScript, Jira, Linux, Git, Google Analytics, CRUD, Adobe CQ/AEM. Django, Flask, Pyramid, Servlets, JSP, AJAX, HTML5, CSS3, XML/XSD, X Path, XSLT, Java Script, jQuery, Web Services (Soap, Restful), SES, Selenium, PyUnit. JAVA Developer Morgan Stanley - New York, NY February 2009 to February 2011 Accountabilities:  ? Involved in transforming the Use Cases into Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams and State diagrams.  ? Involved in development of Web Services, creation of WSDL and schemas.  ? Extensively participated on working with Spring framework. Involved in writing JSP and Servlets.  ? Involved in development of Web Services, were developed to receive client requests.  ? Implemented Spring JDBC template, Spring Exception Strategy and AOP.  ? Involved in setting up WebSphere Application server and using Ant tool to build the application and deploy the application in WebSphere Application server.  ? Design, Development and testing of Java framework to transfer data from application to CIS and also from CIS to application.  ? Worked with the creation of Store Procedures. Involved in writing SQL queries, Stored Procedures to accomplish complex functionalities.  ? Part of team creating quality working J2EE code to design, schedule, and cost to implement use cases.  ? Developed Reusable classes in the middleware using Hibernate.  ? Involved in writing lots of JSP for maintains and enhancements of the application. Worked on Front End using Servlets and also backend using EJB and Hibernate.  ? Worked on Presentation Layer using Struts Tiles, JSPs and Servlets.  ? Created quality working J2EE code to design, schedule, and cost to implement use cases.  ? Setting of DB2 build settings in RAD application development server.  ? Involved in writing the database integration code using Hibernate.  ? Creation of managed server and JDBC connections.  ? Worked on the application using Rational Application Developer.  ? Worked on the application using Rational Application Developer. Designed & Developed Application flow UML diagrams of the application using Rational Rose.    Background Skills: J2EE, Java, JSP, Servlet, JDBC, JavaScript, Struts, Hibernate, JUnit, HTML, WebSphere Application Server, WSAD, Oracle, SQL, TOAD, Spring, WSDL, Axis, tcpmon, Ant, CVS, Windows'XP, Aix-Unix Java Developer Navisys - Charlotte, NC July 2007 to January 2009 Accountabilities:  ? Developed the modules of Purchase Request, Purchase Order, Item Master modules.  ? Involved in the Enhancement of Summarization module.  ? Developed the web pages using JSP, CSS and HTML  ? Developed the RTM interface module to map the requirements to the test-case and Test design modules  ? Generic Tree Navigation control)  ? Used several J2EE Design Patterns (Session Façade, Aggregate Entity) for the Middle Tier development.  ? Developed EJBS (Session and Message-Driven Beans) in (RAD) for handling business processing, database access and asynchronous messaging.  ? Made extensive use of Java Naming and Directory Interface (JNDI) for looking up enterprise beans.  ? Developed Message-Driven beans in collaboration with Java Messaging Service (JMS)  ? Involved in writing JSP/HTML/JavaScript and Servlets to generate dynamic web pages and web content.  ? Wrote various stored procedures in PL/SQL and JDBC routines to update tables.  ? Wrote various SQL queries for data retrieval using JDBC.  ? Involved in building and parsing XML documents using SAX parser.  ? Exposed business logic as a web service and developed WSDL files for describing these web services.  ? Extensively used SOAP formatted messages for communication between web services.  ? Developed the application on IBM WebSphere Application Server.  ? Developed the plug-in interfaces for the TMS features (TEE, Requirements, Version Control)  ? Developed Form Beans, which are used to store data when the user submits the HTML form  ? Coded various Java beans to implement the business logic  ? Development of GUI using AWT  ? Involved in creating the tables using SQL and connectivity is done by JDBC  ? Involved in generating the reports regarding the marks they secured in the online test once they press the submit button in the test using HTML and JSP.    Background Skills: J2ee, Java, Jsp, Servlet, Jdbc, Struts, Junit, Log4j, Javascript, Dhtml, Websphere Application Server, Axis, Wsad, Xml, Xslt, Ant, Sql, Sql Query Analyzer, Jprobe, Cvs, Opprox Reports, Windows'xp, Unix-Ibm Aix Education Bachelor's Skills SQL (10+ years), MYSQL (8 years), UNIX (7 years), MS SQL SERVER (5 years), SQL SERVER (5 years) Additional Information ADDITIONAL TECH SKILLS  ? Oracle, SQL Server, MySQL, DB2, JBoss, WebSphere, Tomcat, Eclipse, Flex, RSA, NetBeans, Windows, Linux, Unix