Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer Providence, RI • Over 5 years of experience in design, development, testing, maintenance and documentation of Enterprise applications using various technologies, analyzing complex business requirements & mapping them to system specifications using Python, JavaScript, MySQL, Oracle. HTML5, CSS, Git.   • Sound experience in Python, JavaScript and Object Oriented programming.   • Strong Experience in web based UI design and interface development using HTML, DHTML, CSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, JQUERY, AJAX, and JSON.  • Expertise in developing different web applications implementing the Model-View-Controller (MVC) architectures using python base Django framework.   • Experienced in developing web services,? REST API, Apache for Development.   • Experience with Requests, Numpy, Matplotlib, HTTPLib2, Urllib2, Beautiful Soup and Pandas python libraries during development life cycle.  • Worked on large datasets by using Pyspark and numpy.  • Hands-on experience with Amazon web services.  • Worked on various control systems such as Git and SVN.  • Experienced on web services with protocols SOAP and REST.  • Experience in various stage of software development life cycle includes requirements, analysis, design, development, deployment, and testing of an application for business outputs.  • Experience in Agile software development- a framework that delivers customer collaboration and interaction with processes and tools.  • Knowledge of cyber security platforms Firewalls, Web proxy, Intrusion Prevention System(IPS), Anti-Virus?   • Worked on JIRA for bug tracking and communicating for better results.?  • Excellent team player, very dynamic, flexible with the positive attitude and excellent learning skills. Work Experience Python Developer CVS Health - Woonsocket, RI April 2016 to August 2017 This project is mainly involved in developing the web application using Python 2.7 version and Django framework in frontend application. Connected the application to AWS using amazon beanstalk using Django framework to run the application on the server.  Responsibilities:  • Participate in requirement gathering and analysis phase of the project in documenting the business requirements by conducting workshops/meetings with various business users  • Worked with a team of developers on Python applications for RISK management.  • Developed application for Google Analytics aggregation and reporting.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Worked on Python Open stack API's.  • Used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users.  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis.?  • Worked very closely with the designer, tightly integrating Flash into the CMS with the use of Flashvars stored in the Django models. Also, created XML with Django to be used by the Flash.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS, JQuery, and JavaScript.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL DB package.  • Involved in development of REST web services sending and getting data from the external interface.   • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile).  • Performed troubleshooting, and bug fixing.   Environment: Amazon AWS, S3, MySQL, HTML, Python 2.7, Django 1.8, HTML5, CSS, XML, JavaScript, Linux, AJAX. Python Developer ConEdison Solutions - New York, NY October 2014 to March 2016 ConEdison Competitive Energy Businesses, including ConEdison Solutions, ConEdisonEnergy, ConEdison Development, and Competitive Shared Services, have been a leading national provider of energy and energy services.  Responsibilities:  • Developing Web Applications with W3C, XHTML, HTML5, CSS3 standards and Python (Django) for data visualization dashboard.   • Develop web services using Python Django Framework  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to created user-friendly website interface  • Participated in the development of application architecture and blueprints to define application components, platforms, interfaces and development tools.  • Worked on XML documents based on XML Schema definition (XSD) with python scripts to load the data into the database.  • Used JavaScript for Dynamic Page Functionality, popup screens, and the user entry validations.  • Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were the main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  Environment: Python 2.7, Python 3.X, Django 1.4, Jenkins, Oracle, MySQL, Linux, HTML, CSS, JQuery, JavaScript, Apache, Linux, Git? UI Developer Jenrac Delivering Technology - London January 2013 to June 2014 ?The project was to create a new online interface for their range of online compliance courses provided for new and existing clients.    Responsibilities:  • Working within the web development team, primary duties were to perform web interface design and interactive flash design on e-learning website.  • Create wireframes, prototypes, and low and high fidelity solutions.  • Create interactive prototypes with Axure RP.  • Worked in a team, involved in developing the UI, layout and front-end programming (HTML) from wireframe.  • Designed the front-end applications, user interactive (UI) web pages using web technologies like HTML and CSS.  • Designed dynamic and browser compatible pages using HTML, DHTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Develop HTML and CSS template using Photoshop.  • Used JQuery-Ajax plug-in to get the data in JSON format and displayed on HTML page.  • Working with Bootstrap to design Single Page Applications.  • Used MySQL in server side code to fetch the JSON format of data.  • Designed, developed and implemented the database in MySQL Server for the application.  • Experience in cross-browser compatibility check and thoroughly performed unit testing and integration testing.    Environment: Linux, HTML, CSS, MySQL, Git, Axure, Photoshop, Bootstrap, JQuery, JavaScript, JSON, MVC Additional Information ?Technical Skills  Languages: Python, R, Java, JavaScript, SQL,  Frameworks: Django, Flask  Web Technologies: HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, DOM, SAX, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, XML, Web Services, REST API's.  Application Servers?: WebSphere, WebLogic, Apache Tomcat  Developer Tools: PyCharm, Eclipse, Sublime Text  Database: MySQL, MongoDB    Operating Systems: Windows, Linux, Unix,  Python Libraries: Pandas, Numpy,   Deployment Tools: Heroku, Amazon EC2  Networking: LAN/WAN? Administration, VPN, TCP/IP,