Sr. Python/Django Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span>/Django <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python/Django Developer - Fidelity National Financial Palo Alto, CA • Having 8+ years of experience as a Python Developer with deep understanding of technology trends with expertise in core of complex technologies. Solid experience in Analysis, Design and Development, Testing, Implementation, production support and maintenance of various Web Applications using Python, Spark, Django, Bottle framework.  • Extensive experience in Requirement Analysis, Application Design & Development and profound knowledge on SDLC using agile and V-model.  • Experienced in working with various Python IDE's using PyCharm, PySpark, PyScripter, Spyder, PyStudio and PyDev and Bottle framework and to deploy AWS & MS Azure.  • Experienced in developing Web-based Applications using Python, CSS, HTML, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AJAX, J2EE, jQuery, JSON, jQuery UI, XML, Angular JS and jQuery also involving Beautiful Soap, NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas Data frame, PySpark, urlib2 libraries.  • Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language and good knowledge of Web Services with protocols SOAP, REST.  • Experience in using third party tools like Telerik, DevExpress and kendo Controls and worked containerizing applications using Docker and Vagrant and familiar with JSON based REST, SOAP, and Amazon Web Services.  • Profiled python code for optimization and memory management and skilled experience in Python with using new tools and technical developments (Libraries Used: libraries- Beautiful Soup, Jasy, NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib, Pickle, PySide, Pandas Data frame, Bottle framework, networkX, urllib2, Pychart, Highcharts) to drive improvements throughout entire SDLC.  • Involved in Unit testing, Integration testing, User-Acceptance testing, and Functional testing and experienced in web applications development using, Flask / Python, Bottle framework, and Node.js, Angular.js, DOJO, jQuery while using HTML/CSS/JS for server-side rendered applications also involving Beautiful Soap, NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas Data frame, urlib2 libraries.  • Experienced in developing API services in Python/Tornado, NodeJS while leveraging AMQP and RabbitMQ for distributed architectures to deploy AWS & MS Azure.  • Expertise in developing web-based applications using libraries and frameworks like Bottle, Angular JS, Bootstrap, jQuery, Ruby on Rails, Knockout.js, Node Js, Backbone.js, React JS, D3 JS and Require JS.  • Having working Knowledge of Amazon AWS S3 and worked extensively on Big Data analytical models developed in Python.  • Experience object-oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, C++ and PHP and expertise in NoSQL technologies like MongoDB, CouchDB Cassandra, Redis and relational databases like Oracle, SQLite, Postgre SQL and MySQL (PostgreSQL) databases.  • Experience on Web development using HTML 4/5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Angularjs, AJAX, XML and JSON by following W3C standards also involving Beautiful Soap, NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas Data frame, urlib2 libraries.  • Extensive development experience in Java, Struts, JSPs, Servlets, taglibs, Hibernate, JDBC, HTML HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AJAX, J2EE, jQuery, JSON, jQuery UI, XML, SQL, XML and JSON and developed J2EE applications on IDE's like Eclipse, PySpark, PyCharm, My Eclipse, Google GWT, and Rational Application Developer.  • Proficient in developing multithreaded web services using Cherrypie & bottlePy framework and leveraging queuing architectures with RabbitMQ for scalability, performance and building also involving Beautiful Soap, NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas Data frame, urlib2 libraries.  • Proficient in writing unit testing code using Unit Test/PyTest and integrating the test code with the build process worked on Python Testing frameworks like Bottle, zope, pytest, nose and Robot framework also involving Beautiful Soap, NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas Data frame, urlib2 libraries.  • Experience in working with different operating systems like LINUX, UNIX and WINDOWS and developed web applications and RESTful web services and APIs using Python Flask, Spark, Django and PHP also involving Beautiful Soap, NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas Data frame, urlib2 libraries.  • Proficient in writing unit testing code using Unit Test/PyTest and integrating the test code with the build process worked on Python Testing frameworks like Bottle, zope, pytest, nose and Robot framework also involving Beautiful Soap, NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas Dataframe, urlib2 libraries.  • Well versed with Agile with SCRUM, Waterfall Model and Test-driven development methodologies experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache.  • Experience in working with different operating systems like LINUX, UNIX and WINDOWS and developed web applications and RESTful web services and APIs using Python Flask, Django and PHP also involving Beautiful Soap, NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas Data frame, urlib2 libraries. Work Experience Sr. Python/Django Developer Fidelity National Financial - Atlanta, GA March 2017 to Present Responsibilities  • Perform Data Profiling to learn about behavior with various features such as traffic pattern, location, Date and Time etc.  • Extracted the data from hive tables by writing efficient Hive queries.  • Performed preliminary data analysis using descriptive statistics and handled anomalies such as removing duplicates and imputing missing values.  • Analyze Data and Performed Data Preparation by applying historical model on the data set in Tablue.  • Performed data cleaning and feature selection using MLlib package in PySpark and working with deep learning frameworks such as Caffe, Neon etc.  • Conducted a hybrid of Hierarchical and K-means Cluster Analysis using IBM SPSS and identified meaningful segments of customers through a discovery approach.  • Develop Spark/Scala, Python, R for regular expression (regex) project in the Hadoop/Hive environment with Linux/Windows for big data resources. Used clustering technique K-Means to identify outliers and to classify unlabeled data.  • Evaluate models using Cross Validation, Log loss function, ROC curves and used AUC for feature selection and elastic technologies like Elastic Search, Kibana etc.  • Work with NLTK library to NLP data processing and finding the patterns.  • Categorize comments into positive and negative clusters from different social networking sites using Sentiment Analysis and Text Analytics.  • Analyze traffic patterns by calculating autocorrelation with different time lags.  • Ensure that the model has low False Positive Rate and Text classification and sentiment analysis for unstructured and semi-structured data.  • Addressed over fitting by implementing of the algorithm regularization methods like L2 and L1.  • Use Principal Component Analysis in feature engineering to analyze high dimensional data.  • Create and design reports that will use gathered metrics to infer and draw logical conclusions of past and future behavior.  • Perform Multinomial Logistic Regression, Random forest, Decision Tree, SVM to classify package is going to deliver on time for the new route.  • Implemented different models like Logistic Regression, Random Forest and Gradient-Boost Trees to predict whether a given die will pass or fail the test.  • Perform data analysis by using Hive to retrieve the data from Sql to retrieve datafrom Oracle database and used ETL for data transformation.  • Perform Data Cleaning, features scaling, features engineering using pandas and numpy packages in python.  • Develop Map Reduce pipeline for feature extraction using Hive and Pig.  • Create Data Quality Scripts using SQL and Hive to validate successful data load and quality of the data. Create various types of data visualizations using Python and Tableau.  • Communicate the results with operations team for taking best decisions.  • Collect data needs and requirements by Interacting with the other departments.    Environment: Python, R, HDFS, Hadoop, Hive, Linux, Spark, IBM SPSS, Tableau Desktop, SQL Server, Microsoft Excel, Matlab, Spark SQL, Pyspark.CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, JSON, MySQL, JIRA, JQuery, Bootstrap, MS SQL Server, Git, GitHub and Shell Scripting, Sr. Python/Django Developer Citigroup Inc LLC - New York, NY September 2015 to February 2017 Responsibilities  • Worked with the Stakeholders, gathered requirements developed high level design documents.  • Used Python libraries like NumPy/ SciPy, Pandas for market analysis and done some machine learning using Python.  • Analyzed various logs that are been generated and used various Python libraries to predict/forecast next occurrence of event with various Python libraries.  • Used Django framework in developing web applications to implement the model view control architecture (MVC)  • Refactored and extended large existing Django/ Python code base, reducing the number of lines in code and duplication significantly.  • Wrote Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Query Optimization through MYSQL server tools for quick response time.  • Designed and Developed DB2 SQL Procedures and UNIX Shell Scripts for Data Import/Export and Conversions.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse JSON documents and load the data in database and also used python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Responsible to set up REST API frame work using Django, Flask.  • Developed, designed, managed dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, Oracle DB, PostgreSQL API calls.  • Performed some operations, visualization on Oracle DB using libraries like Ox oracle, Matplotlib, Pandas.  • Build back-end application with Python / Django, Worked on Dockers, RabbitMQ, Celery, and Jenkins.  • Worked with Network related python libraries for transferring the files and connecting remotely to the servers.  • Ensured high quality data collection and maintaining the integrity of the data using integration of Python with C and C++ libraries.  • Developed Python classes and used decorated methods to create the dependency graphs for the business logic and core applications that are pre-built using C++.  • Developed GUI using webapp2 for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of Python code using a web browser.  • Used Python based GUI components for the front end functionality such as selection criteria and developed a GUI for a Java script product.  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Designed and developed Restful API internally in the company using Python Virtual environments, Flask and Requests.  • Used several python libraries like wxPython, NumPy, and Matplotlib.  • Involved in the environment, code installation as well as the SVN implementation.  • Built all database mapping classes using Django models and Cassandra.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Created unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  • Designed and configured database and back end applications and programs.    Environment: Python, Django, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, MySQL, JIRA, JQuery, SQLite, SQL Server, Haystack, Virtualenv, pip, GIT, RESTful and Linux, Karrigell, Pylatte, Glashammer, Zope2, wheezy.web, Reahl, Pylons, Giotto, TurboGears Sr. Python/Django Developer The Kroger Co - Reston, VA September 2014 to August 2015 Responsibility  • Application was based on service-oriented architecture and used Python, Django, JSF, spring, Ajax, HTML, CSS for the frontend.  • Converted Visual Basic Application to Python, MSQL.  • Used python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Created Reports using JASPER.  • Used Thales asynchronous theorem for applying encryption and decryption of ISO standard message in Python programming.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Implemented schema and data migration for the postgres database using South migration tool.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS, JQuery and JavaScript.  • Developed user-friendly modals for the form submissions using simplemodal.js, JQuery, Ajax and JavaScript.  • Experience in building the war with help the putty and deployed into cloud environment using the cloud controller and experience in solving the cloud issue.  • Designed and maintained PowerShell based troubleshooting procedures for bulk changes  • Developed PowerShell scripts to configure the upgraded Exchange environment, migrate users, then monitor and maintain the new environment  • Used Python modules such as requests, urllib, and urllib2 for web crawling.  • Worked on writing and as well as read data from csv and excel file formats.  • Performed QA testing on the application.  • Developed approaches for improving NLP pipeline.  • Create custom VB scripts in repackaging applications as needed.  • Wrote scripts in Python for extracting data from HTML file.  • Designed the frontend web pages using HTML, JavaScript, Angular JS, JQuery and AJAX. Used CSS  • for better appearance. Writing templates for front end pages where we include HTML pages and JavaScript files knowledge of cross-browser and cross-platform development of HTML and CSS  • based websites in Windows like IE 6, IE 7, IE 8 and FF.  • Interactive in providing change requests, trouble reports and requirements collection with the client.  • Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all of its commands.  • Experience in debugging and troubleshooting programming related issues.  • Improved performance by using more modularized approach and using more in built methods.  • Improved caching system for the test webserver.  • Collaborated with internal teams to convert end user feedback into meaningful and improved solutions.    Environment: Python, Django, VB scripts, Jenkins, Jasper, Gerrit, MySQL, Unix, HTML, CSS, JQuery, JavaScript, Apache, Ajax, simplemodal.js, Git, PowerShell. Python/Django Developer Johnson & Johnson - Atlanta, GA March 2012 to August 2014 Responsibilities  • Gathered and analyzed the requirements and converted them into User Requirement Specifications and Functional Requirement Specifications for the designers and developers to understand them as per their perspective.  • Used Django API's to access the database.  • Working knowledge of modern development methodologies and tools such as Jenkins, Maven, JIRA, and Git.  • Worked on Spark Scripts to find the most trending products (day-wise and week-wise) using Scala.  • Experience with big data technologies (Spark, Kafka, HBase, HIVE, PIG)  • Coded custom processors in NiFi and implemented consumers and producers for Kafka topics  • Worked on project to retrieve log messages procured from Kafka by leveraging Spark Streaming.  • Fixing issues with routers and firewalls and IP configuration  • Having good experience in developing an enterprise MEAN Stack application by writing server-side code with Node.js and Express framework, a database to store and retrieve data with MongoDB and front-end web pages designing with ReactJS.  • Designed and implemented a Perl Nagios plug-in to monitor fleet-vehicle communication to detect outages  • Designed and implemented complex server-based Internet applications on Perl CGI and UNIX/Linux environments  • Worked on Airflow scheduler executes tasks on an array of workers while following the specified dependencies.  • We have used Airflow rich command line utilities make performing complex surgeries on DAGs a snap.  • Having good experience in implementing the Node.js server-side code to interact with MongoDB to store and retrieve data by using the Mongoose drivers.  • Worked with Passport and JSON web tokens for authentication and authorization security configurations using Node.js.  • Implemented Jenkins workflow and plugins for repeatable deployments of multi-tier applications, artifacts, and services to Docker.  • Proficient at using Spark API's to explore, cleanse, aggregate, transform and store machine sensor data.  • Developed a portal to manage and entities in a content management system using Flask.  • Knowledge of data structures, algorithms, OO design, web application design, SOA architecture.  • Worked on analysing Hadoop distribution (HDP) and different Big Data analytic tools including Hive, and Sqoop.  • Used AngularJS framework to bind HTML (views) to JavaScript objects (models), converted wireframes to web pages with behavioral design development (BDD)  • Applied the fundamentals of TDD, OOP, Agile development and continuous integration.  • Reviewed source code (Java/J2EE/Spring/FTL/JavaScript) and developed security filters within App Scan for critical applicationsusing IBM AppScan Source, triage and resolve the security vulnerabilities.  • Worked on ORC file format, bucketing, partitioning for hive performance enhancement and storage improvement.  • Monitoring system based on Docker and Big Data (HBase - OpenTSDB, Redis)  • Involved in Hive query tuning for better performance.  • Imported and exported data into HDFS and Hive using Sqoop  • Developed a remote integration with third-party platforms by using RESTful web services.  • Developed web-based application using Django framework with python concepts.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Designed and developed the UI for the website with HTML, XHTML, CSS, JavaScript, and AJAX.  • Developed Cloud infrastructure like compute, storage, and platform Restful services to implement Open Stack API.  • Used several python libraries like wxPython, NumPy, and Matplotlib.  • Placed data into JSON files using python to test Django websites.  • Deployed and supported web hosting platform based on Linux CentOS, Ubuntu, Open Stack.  • Maintained the versions using GIT and sending the release notes for each release.  • Used JIRA for tracking, updating the project issues and issue tracking.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Performed research to explore and identify new technological platforms.  • Responsible for setting up AngularJS framework for UI development.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting issues.  • Actively worked as a part of a team with managers and other staff to meet the goals of the project in the stipulated time.  • Ensured high-quality data collection and maintaining the integrity of the data.    Environment: Python, HTML, Django, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, MongoDB, Spark, APIs, Git, Flask, Maven, Jenkins, JIRA, Pandas API, J2EE, Ajax, Web Services, Hive, Perl, Eclipse, Kafka, XHMTL, Airflow, WxPython, NumPy, Matplotlib, UML, SVN, JSON, Linux CentOS, Ubuntu, Open Stack, JIRA. Java Developer Duke Energy - Charlotte, NC April 2010 to March 2012 Responsibilities  • Designed & developed the application using Spring Framework  • Developed class diagrams, sequence and use case diagrams using UML Rational Rose.  • Designed the application with reusable J2EE design patterns  • Designed DAO objects for accessing RDBMS  • Developed web pages using JSP, HTML, DHTML and JSTL  • Designed and developed a web-based client using Servlets, JSP, Tag Libraries, JavaScript, HTML and XML using Struts Framework.  • Involved in developing JSP forms.  • Designed and developed web pages using HTML and JSP.  • Designed various applets using JBuilder.  • Designed and developed Servlets to communicate between presentation and business layer.  • Used EJB as a middleware in developing a three-tier distributed application.  • Developed Session Beans and Entity beans for business and data process.  • Used JMS in the project for sending and receiving the messages in the queue.  • Developed the Servlets for processing the data on the server.  • Developed views and controllers for client and manager modules using Spring MVC and Spring Core.  • Used Spring Security for securing the web tier Access.  • Business logic is implemented using Hibernate.  • Developed and modified database objects as per the requirements.  • Involved in Unit integration, bug fixing, acceptance testing with test cases, Code reviews.  • Interaction with customers and identified System Requirements and developed Software Requirement Specifications.  • Implemented Java design patterns wherever required.  • Involved in development, maintenance, implementation and support of the System.  • Involved in initial project setup and guidelines.  • Implemented Multi-threading concepts.  • Developed test cases for Unit testing using JUnit and performed integration and system testing  • Involved in coding for the presentation layer using Struts Framework, JSP, AJAX, XML, XSLT and JavaScript  • Closely worked and supported the creation of database schema objects (tables, stored procedures, and triggers) using Oracle SQL/PLSQL    Environment: Java / J2EE, JSP, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, Hibernate, Spring, XML, EJB, Web Services, SOAP, Eclipse, Rational Rose, HTML, XPATH, XSLT, DOM and JDBC. Python/Django Developer VISA - Foster City, CA October 2008 to March 2010 Responsibilities:  • Analyzed the system requirement specifications and also in client interaction during requirements specifications.  • By utilizing Python, CSS, AJAX, JSON and JQuery developed the front end of the application.  • Implemented and tested many features for dashboard using Flask, CSS and JavaScript.  • Written backend programming in Flask.  • Created RESTful http services to interact with UI.  • Utilized JavaScript and XML to update a portion of a webpage.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Experience with advanced CSS concepts and also building table-free layouts.  • Implemented Backbone JS for creation of networking applications using JavaScript.  • Experience in writing SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  • Collaborate with Product Management and User Experience experts regarding product definition, schedule, scope and project-related decisions.  • Manage, collaborate and coordinate the work of an offshore development team.  • Special skills in developing user friendly, simple yet effective web based applications  • Deployed the project into Heroku using GIT version control system.  • Worked in MySQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization and renormalization.  • Utilized regular expression to match the pattern with the existing one.  • Skilled in using collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.    Environment: Flask, XML, HTML, CSS, IE8, FF, Safari, SQL, MySQL, JavaScript, Angular JS, Backbone JS, JQuery, AJAX, JSON, RESTful. Education Master in computer science Cornell University New York