Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python | Web Developer Tampa, FL Ability to identify complex problems and use critical thinking skills to implement plans for overcoming those problems for the company’s benefit.  = 13+ successful full stack web and application development.   = Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, XML, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, MySQL, PostgreSQL and JQuery, PHP and Ruby solid background.   = Good experience in developing web applications implementing Model View Template architecture  = Expertise in understanding complex codes and extending their functionality.   = Solid experience of Web Services with protocols SOAP and REST.   = Good experience in using different kind of data bases like MySQL, PostgreSQL, MS SQL.   = Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, Python/PHP) Architecture.   = Ubuntu/Windows 2012 Server Administration and Network configuration  = Active Participation in full development life cycle (requirements, design, architecture, development, testing).  = Active team member, quick learner and ready to learn new technologies. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer NURTEX - Minsk October 2017 to May 2019 • Django framework for simple request and response.  • Google Dialogflow chatbot integration.  • API integration to Django Framework.  • Used UnitTest to provide clean and solid python code.  • Virtual Private Server setup for Django ready development.  • Deployment to Heroku, AWS through Git repository.  • Bootstrap 3, 4 as CSS framework  • Django REST framework for building RESTfull services  • Serialization for ORM  • Created RESTful web services for Catalog and Pricing.  Environment: Python 3, Django, Postgresql, Jquery, Bootstrap, API, NGINX, Github, VSCode Ruby on Rails Developer TIRAS.BIZ - Tiraspol November 2014 to February 2016 • Developed and implemented the web application using Ruby on Rails framework.   • Writing secure rest-based API calls and reading from XML and JSON Data.   • Maintained the code using Sublime with integration of GitHub.  • Google API for address geocoding  • Leaflet library for mobile-friendly interactive maps  • PostregSQL database queries optimization  • Twitter Bootstrap template system  • Capistrano, Git for fast deploy.  • Github and Bitbucket repositories for source control Web Developer Redline Studio - Tiraspol September 2006 to June 2014 • Worked with CakePHP, Yii Frameworks and used MVC patterns.  • Setup LAMP and WAMP servers for development and production.  • Integrating merchant API's for bank payments.  • Writing PHP REST API for application clients.  • Drupal, Joomla, Wordpress setup and continuous development.  • PHP PEAR modules integration to web app.  • ADODB optimization for PHP5.5  • Export/Import of Excel/CSV files to MySQL database  • phpmailer/sendmail integration. Mail templates setup  • Jquery for user interface(calendars, multiselect, ajax load)  • NuSOAP for SOAP 1.1, WSDL 1.1 and HTTP 1.0/1 API  • Testing in order to set MySQL database free from SQL injections  • Writing and Optimizing MySQL Queries and connect queries to PHP.    • Validate forms using JQuery, Ajax, and PHP.  • Implemented utility classes which handle the string and date manipulation.  • Customized WordPress plugins and built new custom plugins.    • Communicating project status to all interested parties and ensures team stays on track to satisfy client expectations  • Created MySQL stored procedures and functions using PhpMyAdmin for customer's database module.   Education Some college in Physics September 2002 to December 2005 High school or equivalent September 1991 to June 2002 Skills Python (1 year), web developer (10+ years), PHP (5 years), Management, Inventory Control, Django (1 year), PostgresSQL, MySQL, Git, Bootstrap, Linux, Wordpress (5 years), CSS, HTML 5, Javascript, Jquery, NGINX, Windows Server (2 years) Additional Information • Fluent English, Russian, Arabic  • Basic French, German