Senior Software Engineer Senior Software Engineer Senior Software Engineer Arlington, MA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Software Engineer Boston Energy Trading January 2019 to Present Contractor) Boston Energy Trading  ? Built a python API client for PJM and MISO and built a bids submission application for the traders.  ? Built a framework for collecting data and building dashboards for metrics based visualization.  ? Projects fully deployed with Terraform, SaltStack, and a custom Terraform provisioner i wrote for salt stack (https://github.com/rangertaha/terraform-provisioner-saltstack)  ? Started to work on an FTR trading application for traders.  ? Lead the software development and introduced traders to SDLC, CI/CD, the use of Git repositories and Jira for project management.  ? Built PyQT desktop applications for submitting bids and handling transactions. DevOps Engineer Wolters Kluwer October 2018 to January 2019 Contractor) Wolters Kluwer  ? Building an automated deployment of OpenShift/Kubernetes clusters running microservices.  ? Worked on extending the existing OpenShift clusters with new features.  ? Wrote a terraform Golang provisioner for SaltStack that supports grains.  ? Wrote python salt modules for custom grain behavior.  ? Wrote ansible playbooks for cluster deployments, installing monitoring and metrics. Senior Python Developer ThreatConnect May 2017 to August 2018 Incharge of Splunk Python app for integration with the ThreatConnect cyber security threat intelligence platform.  ? Developed multiple Python MISP apps for sharing threat intelligence between MISP and ThreatConnect.  ? Developed a Python R-CISC app for sharing threat intelligence with the ThreatConnect platform  ? Built domain typosquatting apps in Python that leveraged NLTK for linguistic algorithms.  ? Developed DNS and Whois lookup Python apps to retrieve additional information on domain indicators.  ? Developed Golang API client library the the ThreatConnect API  ? Developed the most advanced typosquatting app in Golang. See: https://github.com/rangertaha/urlinsane Senior Software/Systems Engineer Teletech Consulting August 2016 to May 2017 Contractor) Teletech Consulting  ? Designed, built, deployed and maintained a large scale big data analytics platform from ground up using Kubernetes and an ecosystem of services/tools built in Golang and Python. Deployed in AWS Cloud.  ? Built Golang microservices to support the analytics platform. The microservices implemented service discovery, load-balancing, instrumentation, logging and tracing.  ? Build a Django web portal to manage different user roles, workflow and platform management tasks.  ? Build instrumentation stack with grafana, prometheus, alertmanager, kibana, and elasticsearch.  ? Build logging stack with kibana, elastic, fluend, logstash  ? The stack: Golang, Python, Django, Consul, Kong, Airflow, Spark, Nifi, InfluxDB, Prometheus, Grafana, Elasticsearch, Kibana, Fluentd, Logstash, Nginx, NATs, Jupyter, Ansible and the Hadoop ecosystem components. Python Engineer (Contracting) Celerity IT LLC June 2015 to August 2016 Worked on National Geographic's DjangoCMS application as a backend developer.  ? Used Celery with RabbitMQ, Redis, MySQL, Django, and Flask to create a distributed worker framework for testing OpenStack VM instances.  ? Created backend services such as a messaging HTTP pub sub with message search capabilities using Elasticsearch as a search engine. Python Engineer Silent Circle(Blackphone) May 2014 to April 2016 Contract/Remote) Silent Circle(Blackphone)  ? Developed and was in-charge of the Django user accounts web application interface to the VOIP servers  ? Integrated Django web application with other infrastructure components such as the Golang user account servers.  ? Built the Silent Circle Management Console(SCMC) in Django, Python, AngularJs while integrating with infrastructure services.  ? Worked on a project for testing virtual servers in OpenStack.  ? Used Celery with RabbitMQ, Redis, MySQL, Django, and Flask to create a distributed worker framework for testing OpenStack VM instances.  ? Created backend services such as an HTTP pub sub with message search capabilities using Elasticsearch as a search engine. Python Engineer Plus 3 Interactive Inc January 2014 to May 2014 Contract/Boston) Plus 3 Interactive Inc.  ? Developed Python/Django application for Google Analytics aggregation and reporting.  ? Built efficient Node.js backend for client web application.  ? Used GIS tools such as QGIS and GDAL to create vector maps for map components.  ? Leveraged SaltStack event system for distributed application monitoring and reporting. DevOps Engineer OwnerIQ Inc April 2013 to January 2014 Contract/Boston) OwnerIQ Inc.  ? Developed Django application to run Hadoop using Celery for flow control.  ? Created Python and Bash tools for system integration.  ? Maintained and administered Hadoop Clusters, as well as RabbitMQ, MySQL, Pentaho, LDAP, and monitoring CACI, Nagios, Salt, Splunk, and Kibana. Python Developer (Philippines/Contract) Perfect Pitch Technology Inc September 2012 to May 2013 Created Python and Bash tools to increase efficiency of call center application system and operations; data conversion scripts, AMQP/RabbitMQ, REST, JSON, and CRUD scripts for API Integration  ? Created server monitoring daemon with Psutil, supported by Django app for analytics which I created. Also researched big data solutions with Cassandra database.  ? Led Dev/Ops team; Linux administration, application debugging, Bash, and Python scripting. Systems Support Specialist EastBridge Partners LLC March 2006 to March 2012 Built web applications for internal use.  ? Programmed, installed, troubleshot, ordered, and maintained computer hardware and software.  ? Created Python scripts for automated system tasks, monitoring, and storage in MySQL database.  ? Analyzed and implemented a wide range of solutions, including computer and network security. Technical Analyst (Afghanistan/Contract) Systems Products & Solutions Inc January 2011 to January 2012 Created a Python/Django based web application for government contract management using Python scripting for data processing, MySQL for the database, and HTML/CSS/jQuery and HighCharts for data visualization of the served pages. Installed and administered on a Linux server.  ? Administered Linux servers, wrote scripts for data processing, conversion, storage, and backup. Army Ranger in 3rd Ranger Battalion, Cco U.S. Army March 2003 to March 2006 Primary responsibilities include responsibilities as an Army Ranger.  ? Secondary responsibilities include communications architecture for deployment of telecommunications systems, communications devices, voice and data networks, and electronic devices.  ? Wrote server-side daemons in Python and bash for processing intelligence feeds from GPS beacons for GIS applications, C2 Battle feeds, GIS Feeds, UAVs. Skills Golang (2 years), Linux (10+ years), Javascript, Python (10+ years), Cyber Security (4 years) Links https://github.com/rangertaha