Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer Fords, NJ PROFESSIONAL SUMMARY:    • 13 years of experience in architecture, design, development and technical support of IT applications.  • Excellent expertise with Python, C++ & core Java.  • Excellent experience on Storage, High Availability, Networking and Telecom Platform, Oracle Cloud Infrastructure.  • Has full system life cycle hands-on experience: analysis, design, coding, testing, performance tuning, installing, documenting, maintaining, and end-user training.  • Hands on work experience in Docker containers.  • Hands on work experience in Kubernetes container-orchestration.  • Hands on work experience with Python packages: paramiko, oci (Oracle Cloud Infrastructure), openstackclient, requests, kubernetes, yaml, json, pickle  • Worked on Python unittest and Pytest frameworks.  • Implemented REST API servers using Python Flask micro web framework.  • Hands on work experience on SQL  • Hands on work experience on packet analyzers like Tshark & wireshark.  • Excellent experience working with various operating systems like Unix/LINUX.  • Excellent experience in Agile Software Development Methodologies  • Extensively used IDE's like Eclipse & PyCharm  • Extensive hands-on experience in object-oriented analysis, designs, modeling and programming tools in conjunction with Unified modeling language (UML).  • Extensively used versioning tools like GIT, SVN, CVS  • Work experience in GitHub & Jenkins.  • Good working Experience in using Makefile, gitlab for building and deploying the application on oci.  • Experience in working on both Development and Support based projects with mission critical deadlines  • Used BugZilla, JIRA for Bug tracking.  • Knowledge in AWS services like Lambda, EC2, S3, API Gateway.    CAREER SUMMARY:    Working as a Software Developer at 3i Infotech Inc, Edison, NJ from June 2019.    Worked as a Senior Member of Technical Staff at Oracle India Private Limited, IDC, Bangalore from 17th Aug 2015 to 21st June 2019.    Worked as a Senior Systems/Software Engr at Hewlett-Packard (HP), Bangalore from 26th July 2010 to 12th Aug 2015.    Worked as a Module Lead at MindTree LTD, Bangalore from 19th Dec 2005 to 23rd July 2010. Work Experience Sr. Python Developer Oracle August 2016 to June 2019 Description:  MSP (Micro Service Platform) development for OCI.  It is a cloud infrastructure development project to migrate oracle internal application with minimum human interference. This platform streamlines the process of onboarding of application and accelerate application development and gives common services to application.    I worked on both Python 2 & 3. Developed several Microservices in Python using Docker & Kubernetes extensively. Used Python packages like paramiko, oci (Oracle Cloud Infrastructure), requests, kubernetes, yaml, json, pickle, flask. Trained new team members on Python, Docker & Kubernetes. Reviewed code. Redesigned the code from Python multi threading into job queue. Used unittest and Pytest for unit test. Designed & implemented REST API server using Flask. Used PyCharm IDE    Responsibilities:  • Followed agile methodology during development of the project and oversee the software development in Sprints by attending daily stand-ups.  • Convert applications into micro services using docker.  • Bring up Kubernetes cluster on OCI.  • Deploy docker containers on to Kubernetes cluster to bring up MSP.  • Developed functionality in Python, wrote unit tests.  • Integrated modules into a solution.  • Developed micro services: Repaver, Oracle CDB commissioning automation.  • Automated the process of building immutable images.  • Worked with ELK stack (Elasticsearch, Logstash, Kibana & File beat) for log analytics.  • Developed Jenkins pipeline to build generic and custom Immutable Images.  • Required yum/ python packages are made available in a local mirror.    Environment: Python, Docker, Kubernetes, Microservices, OOPS, GITHUB, UML, Pycharm, Pylint, Jenkins, OpenStack, OCI. Sr. Developer Oracle August 2015 to July 2016 Description:  PM&C (Platform Management & Configuration) is an application to manage and configure the Tekelec (acquired by Oracle) platform which runs telecommunication applications. It uses SOAP for communication between CLI/GUI and business logic and between PM&C and remote machines running TPD (Tekelec Platform Distribution which is a modified Oracle Linux). It discovers H/W and S/W in the network.    I worked on Python 2. Added new features and fixed bugs in Python code. Participated in code reviews. Used multi threading module. Wrote unit test using unittest and Pytest. Used PyCharm IDE.    Responsibilities:  • Followed agile methodology during development of the project and oversee the software development in Sprints by attending daily stand-ups.  • Provided the level of efforts and estimations for multiple user stories.  • Responsible person for giving show and Tell on the user stories to the Product Owners and provided help on creating and testing the treatments.  • Actively participated in monthly Business meetings with Product Owners and Business.  • Involved in creation of Docker tool for Virtual machine setup.  • Involved in Production deployment of the User stories on monthly basis.  • Expertise on using Linux environment for deployment and debugging the issues.  • Involved in Stored Procedure Review and Consumed the Stored procedures to store the data onto Database.    Environment: Python, SQL, Oracle, OOPS, GITHUB, UML, Pycharm, Pylint IT Analyst HP Networking June 2013 to July 2015 Description:  Capture Destination is an agent to HP Network Visualizer which runs independently on any Ubuntu machine. It receives session related information (like session id, GRE key, file name and operation) from Network Visualizer through proprietary protocol developed using TLVs (Type Length Value) on TCP.    Agent runs as a service, opens raw socket, reads GRE packets and writes them into respective file in pcap format depending up on the GRE key. Upon request from HP Network Visualizer, Capture Destination reads latest packets from pcap file, converts them into JSON format and POSTs them back using curl.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in Requirements analysis, design, development and testing.  • Effectively participated in client discussions and meetings on present, future user requirements.  • Coordinated with the offshore and the onsite team members.  • Development of code using C, C++.  • Responsible for development, maintenance of existing application.  • Involved in fixing System testing issues and UAT issues.  • Involved in development and review of test cases as per requirements.  • Identified and resolved major critical bugs during the development phase.  • Involved in Integration, Code Reviews and deployment activities.  • Production issues investigation and supporting business users.  • Prepared Change Request business documents and participated in testing.  • Effectively participated in weekly client communications with Business Analysts.  • JIRA tool is used for tracking various Tasks, Software Change requests, Defect logging, Issues And fixes applied daily to streamline the application development  • Used SVN repositories for version controlling.  Environment: C, C++, OOPS, JIRA, Linux, SVN, LOG4J, UML, gdb, Makefile, Valgrind IT Analyst HP Networking August 2012 to July 2013 Description:  HP SDN Controller is an OpenFlow 1.3 based controller to control OpenFlow enabled switches. It provides north bound REST to SDN Applications to exercise the flexibility provided by OpenFlow enabled switches. It comes with basic apps like link manager, topology manager and node manager.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in analysis, design and development  • Developed specs that include Use Cases, Class Diagrams, and Sequence Diagrams.  • Development of Requirements using Java & Python.  • Involved in fixing System testing issues and UAT issues.  • Extensively used JDBC and connection pooling techniques.  • Involved in the Development and Unit and System Testing of the Delta system.  • Developed test cases and performed unit and integration testing when needed.  Environment: Python, core Java1.7, JDBC, Oracle, OOPS, HTML5, JSON, JIRA, SVN, LOG4J, UML IT Analyst HP Networking August 2010 to July 2012 Description:  Serviceguard is a product from HP which allows you to create high availability (HA) clusters so that services continue to run on cluster nodes with minimal interruption even if hardware, software or network fails. Any application that allows validating, starting, monitoring and stopping automatically can be given high availability by Serviceguard.    Serviceguard detects failures at the earliest and makes decisions dynamically to failover a package from an impotent node to the best node in the cluster. It uses waits and loads to come up with the best node out of the eligible nodes in the cluster. It uses quorum server to resolve split brain situation.    User is given flexibly to come up with his own configuration (using a template configuration) that decides which nodes comprise of the cluster, which service runs on which node, what are the other eligible nodes on which the service can failover to. User can change the configuration and apply it dynamically to a running cluster. User will also get alert notification on the package failures.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in analysis, design and development  • Developed specs that include Use Cases, Class Diagrams, and Sequence Diagrams.  • Development of Requirements using C, C++, Python, shell scripts.  • Involved in fixing System testing issues and UAT issues.  • Involved in the Development and Unit and System Testing.  • JIRA for tracking various Tasks, Software Change requests, Defect logging, Issues and fixes applied on a daily basis to streamline the application development.    Environment: C, C++, Python, OOPS, HTML5, CSS3, JIRA ticketing tool, SVN, gdb, Makefile, Valgrind Module Lead LSI Logic August 2008 to July 2010 Description:  Storage Array Simulator is a Python based product to simulate the real LSI RAID Controllers (Storage Arrays) to showcase the new features to the customers. It simulates all the possible APIs on server side. It can be launched with the real array's state by using ObjectBundle gathered from real array. It is used to test SYMbolSDK and Storage Array Management Software. It is a pure S/W product that works independent of H/W.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in analysis, design and development  • Development of Requirements using Python  • Involved in fixing bugs.  • Prepared code documentation for future reference and upgrades.  ? Involved in application development, performance testing & defects fixing, also followed an Issue Tracker to log the issues and fixes applied on a daily basis to streamline.  ? Updating the Production Support tickets on timely basis and providing the solution accordingly.  ? Used Framework for implementing the MVC Architecture.    Environment: Python, Oracle/DB2, OOPS, Service-now ticketing tool, SVN, Linux Software Consultant LSI Logic January 2006 to July 2008 Description:  SYMbolSDK is the development kit for writing Management Software for LSI Storage Arrays. It's a collection of RPC (Remote Procedure Call) interfaces built around an object-oriented model of the LSI RAID array. Using SDK one can acquire/modify/monitor the state and configuration of storage array. This SDK is available in both CPP and Java on Windows & non Windows platforms. It uses XDR for data representation.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in analysis, design and development  • Development of Requirements using C++.  • Prepared code documentation for future reference and upgrades.  ? Involved in application development, performance testing & defects fixing, also followed an Issue Tracker to log the issues and fixes applied on a daily basis to streamline.  ? Developed test cases and performed unit and integration testing when needed.  Environment: C++, SVN, LOG4C, ctags Education M.C.A in Computer Applications Acharya Nagarjuna University 2004 Skills C++, Docker, Git, Jenkins, Python, Flask, Scripting, Svn, Visio, Rational, Rational rose, Uml, Jira, Linux, Solaris, Unix, Database, Sql, Clear case, Eclipse Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Languages Python, C++ & core Java  Development Tools/IDE's Eclipse, PyCharm  Design Methodologies UML  Design Tools Rational Rose, Microsoft Visio  Open Source log4cpp, log4cpp, GIT, CVS, Rational Clear Case, GIT Hub, JIRA, unittest, Pytest, ELK stack  Platforms UNIX, LINUX, Solaris  Containerization technologies Docker, Kubernetes  Frameworks Flask  Database SQL  CI/CD GitHub, Jenkins  Scripting Languages Shell, Python, make  Version Control Git, SVN, MKS, Clear case