Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - HP San Diego, CA • Over 9+ years of experience as a Web/Application Developer with deep understanding of technology trends with expertise in core of complex technologies. Solid experience in Analysis, Design and Development, Testing, Implementation, production support and maintenance of various Web Applications using Python, Django.  • Extensive experience in Requirement Analysis, Application Design & Development and profound knowledge on SDLC using agile and V-model.  • Experienced in working with various Python IDE's using PyCharm, PyScripter, Spyder, PyStudio and PyDev.  • Experienced in developing Web-based Applications using Python, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, Angular JS and jQuery.  • Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  • Good knowledge of Web Services with protocols SOAP, REST.  • Implemented ansiblefor the test Automation  • Experience in using third party tools like Telerik, DevExpress and kendo Controls.  • Experience with containerizing applications using Docker and Vagrant.  • Profiled python code for optimization and memory management.  • Skilled experience in Python with using new tools and technical developments (Libraries Used: libraries- Beautiful Soup, Jasy, NumPy, Scipy, Matplotlib,PySide, Pandas dataframe, networkX, urllib2, Pychart, Highcharts) to drive improvements throughout entire SDLC.  • Involved in Unit testing, Integration testing, User-Acceptance testing, and Functional testing.  • Experienced in web applications development using Django/ Python, Flask/ Python, and Node.js, Angular.js, DOJO, jQuery while using HTML/CSS/JS for server-side rendered applications.  • Experienced in developing API services in Python/Tornado, NodeJS while leveraging AMQP and RabbitMQ for distributed architectures.  • Having experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Pyspark we implemented Caching, Accumulators and UDF's  • We have implemented pyspark for Transformation and Actions in Spark  • Having working Knowledge of Amazon AWS S3.  • Worked extensively on Big Data analytical models developed in Python.  • Sound knowledge in spring, Hibernate, RDBMS, Web, XML, Ant/Maven, HTML, Python, Shell Scripting.  • Extensive use of Object Oriented design methodology and Agile in software development.  • Extensive experience in Building web applications using Kendo UI widgets, jQuery, Angular JS.  • Experience object oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, C++ and PHP.  • Experienced in NoSQL technologies like MongoDB, CouchDB Cassandra, Redis and relational databases like Oracle, SQLite, PostgreSQL and MySQL databases.  • Experience on Web development using HTML4/5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Angular JS, AJAX, XML and JSON by following W3C standards.  • Experience in developing applications using Amazon web services like EC2, Cloud Search, Elastic Load balancer ELB, S3, CloudFront, Route 53.  • Extensive development experience in Java, Struts, JSPs, Servlets, taglibs, Hibernate, JDBC, HTML, JavaScript, SQL, XML and JSON.  • Developed J2EE applications on IDE's like Eclipse, Pycharm, My Eclipse, Google GWT, and Rational Application Developer.  • Proficient in developing multi-threaded web services using CherryPy&bottlePy framework.  • Leveraging queueing architectures with RabbitMQ for scalability, performance and building.  • Knowledge in working with continuous deployment using Heroku and Jenkins.  • Knowledge on Cloud innovations including Infrastructure as a Service, Platform as a Service, and Software as a Service supplier (IaaS, PaaS, and SaaS).  • Proficient in writing unit testing code using Unit Test/PyTest and integrating the test code with the build process.  • Worked on Python Testing frameworks like zope, pytest, nose and Robot framework.  • Well versed with Agile with SCRUM, Waterfall Model and Test driven development methodologies.  • Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache.  • Familiar with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services.  • Developed web applications and RESTful web services and APIs using Python Flask, Django and PHP. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Python Developer HP - San Diego, CA January 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Django and JavaScript.  • Worked with millions of database records daily, finding common errors and bad data patterns and fixing them.  • Designed and developed ETL APIs which will automate the data mining in different database sources.  • Exported/Imported data between different data sources using SQL Server Management Studio.  • Maintained program libraries, user's manuals and technical documentation.  • Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  • Wrote and executed various MySQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Hands-on experience in writing and reviewing requirements, architecture documents, test plans, design documents, quality analysis and audits.  • Setting up databases in AWS using RDS and configuring instance backups to S3 bucket  • Work closely with development teams to integrate their projects into the production AWS environment and ensure their ongoing support.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that are main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  • Used Go Lang to create backend servers. Developed Micro services using Go language and developed corresponding test cases  • Built SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  • Worked with team of developers on python applications for RISK management.  • Taken part in entire life cycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Implemented a continuous Delivery Pipeline with Jenkins and GitHub to build a new Docker container automatically  • Used Docker to implement a high-level API to provide lightweight containers that run processes isolation and worked on creation of customized Docker container images, tagged and pushed the images to the Docker repository.  • Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all of its commands.  • Refactored existing project to make it more RESTful and thread-safe.  • Developed Golang API and chat-bot using TDD to automate software deployments and rollbacks.  • Designed RESTful XML web service for handling AJAX requests.  • Created project designs utilizing MVC architecture components.  Environment: Python, Django, HTML5/CSS, UNIX, MS SQL Server 2013, AWS, T-SQL, Reports, JavaScript, Eclipse, Linux, Shell Scripting, Restful, MVC3. Sr. Python Developer JPMORGAN - Columbus, OH February 2015 to December 2016 Responsibilities:  • Analysis of requirements and implement different functions according to design..  • Django and Flask frameworks. Moreover, I have good knowledge in REST APIs, JSON,  • PostgreSQL, MySQL, Developed front-end code with Ajax call in AngularJS and jQuery to retrieve data as JSON Object  • from controllers in back-end RESTful Server, then display the well-organized result in web pages by writing AngularJS controller, directives, services, and route providers. Also used Angular.js filter to make the data searchable and sortable.  • Supported the bank website in creating user profiles, we can also do the simple banking transactions for the withdrawls, deposit and transactions is accompanied by password check by securing.  • Created a RESTful web service in Scala, Akka Actors & Elastic Search to download sample projects using RESTFul API from GitHub.  • Explore fault injection tools written in different languages like C,C++ and suggest integration of tools.  • Deployed DevOps using Puppet, Dashboard, and Puppet DB for configuration management to existing infrastructure.  • Implemented responsive web pages using HTML5/CSS3, Bootstrap & XML/JSON REST web  • Services Deployed DevOps using Puppet, Dashboard, and Puppet DB for configuration management to existing infrastructure.  • Fix and adapt several open source components created with C/C++ and python3/2 to abide with yocto project needs. Individual account holder's privacy with the banking management scripts in Python.  • Developed the web applications with the use of the Django.  • Developed web pages using HTML, CSS, JQuery, CICD Script, and AngularJS.  • Backend skills in creating SQL objects like Tables, Stored Procedures, Views, Indexes, Triggers,  • Rules, Defaults, user defined data types and functions.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python.  • Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Designed and maintained databases using Python and developed Python based API (RESTful  • Web Service) using Flask, SQL Alchemy, and PostgreSQL.  • Involved in Unit testing and Integration testing for the application.  • Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, HTML, CSS, CICD Script, Bootstrap, jQuery and RESTAPI calls.  • Develop and validated unit test cases using PYUNIT.  • Development of erp's satellite applications with python2, C++, perl, php.  • Mentorship to developers about J2EE and C/C++ Design patterns and structured approaches.  • Performing code coverage and Pep8 standardization.  • Involved in daily Scrum meetings and followss agile methodology.  • Additionally working over pre-silicon environments to simulate and emulate pieces of graphic hardware with C/C++.  Environment: Python, Django, JSON, HTML, CICD script, JQuery, XML, Agile,SQL, Python, Python, C/C++. Django Developer Xerox Inc - Dallas, TX March 2013 to December 2014 Responsibilities:  • Used Django framework for application development.  • Developed user interface using, CSS, HTML, JavaScript and Jquery and Django.  • Assisted in reduction of cost and optimization of supplier selection for the CRM Applications. Also used methods for cross application use using the Class Builder and Object Oriented programming. Generated an API Reference guide to help application developers for creating the software applications to store data using DDN S3 (compatible with Amazon S3 API) or DDN OpenStack Swift API calls.  • Pyspark we implemented Caching, Accumulators and UDF's  • We have implemented pyspark for Transformation and Actions in Spark  • Ensured high quality data collection and maintaining the integrity of the data.  • Cleaned data and processed third party spending data into maneuverable deliverables within specific formats with Excel macros and python libraries. Used TDD (Test driven development) methodology.  • Used several python libraries like wxPython, numPY and matPlotLib.  • Was involved in environment, code installation as well as the SVN implementation.  • Build all database mapping classes using Django models and Cassandra.  • UsedPandasAPI to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  • This project also used other technologies like JQuery for javascript manipulations, bootstrap for the front-end html layout.  • Designed and configured database and backend applications and programs.  Environment: Python, Django, Cassandra, JavaScript, RabbitMQ, SoapUI, Node.JS, wxPython, numPY, PandasAPI, PyDev, Agile. Python Developer Triag Solutions Pvt. Ltd October 2011 to February 2013 Responsibilities:  • Translated the customer requirements into design specifications and ensured that the requirements translate into software solution.  • Application was based on service oriented architecture and used Python 2.5, Django 1.5, JSF 2, Spring 2, Ajax, HTML, CSS for the frontend.  • Designed the front end of the application using Python, Java, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON and JQuery. Worked on backend of the application, mainly using Active Records.  • Involved in the design, development and testing phases of application using AGILE methodology.  • Developed and designed an API (RESTful Web Service).  • Designed and maintained databases using Python and developed Python based API (RESTful Web Service) using Flask, SQLAlchemy and PostgreSQL.  • Developed web sites using Django, Python, XHTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Tested and implemented applications built using Python.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, ROBOT framework, Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Automated Regression analysis for determining fund returns based on index returns ( Python/Excel).  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures, trigger and function on MYSQL.  • Developed shopping cart for Library and integrated web services to access the payment.  • Used Php language on lamp server to develop page.  • Developed server based web traffic statistical analysis tool using Flask, Pandas.  • Implemented and tested python based web applications interacting with MySQL.  • Developed dynamic interaction page on .net MSvisualbasic-2014, using SQL developer tools.  • Simple web app for reviewing sitcoms that gives users the ability to view, add, review, up/down vote, search, etc.  • Involved in doing AGILE (SCRUM) practices and planning of sprint attending daily agile (SCRUM) meetings and SPRINT retrospective meetings to produce quality deliverables within time.  Environment: Linux, Python, Mod Python, PHP, MySQL, JavaScript, Ajax, Shell Script, HTML, CSS Jr. Java Developer Sytel Technologies January 2009 to September 2011 Responsibilities:  • Developed application service components and configured beans using Spring IOC, creation of Hibernate mapping files and generation of database schema.  • Implemented modules using Core Java APIs, Java collection, Threads, XML, and integrating the modules.  • Developed Reporting framework using JAVA and J2EE which will generate daily, monthly and yearly reports and prepared different framework design documents.  • Created tables, views, Types, triggers, complex join queries, stored procedures, and functions and modifications to existing database structure as required for addition of new features using SQL developer.  • Involved in web designing using HTML 4/5, XHTML, CSS 2/3, JQuery, JavaScript extensively used Table less Design in CSS for positioning.  • Used MVC Architecture in spring framework and implemented custom tag libraries.  • Generated Use case diagrams, Activity flow diagrams, Class diagrams and Object diagrams in the design phase.  • Used Java/J2EE Design Patterns such as Business Delegate, Session Facade, singleton in the project extensively, which facilitates clean distribution of roles and responsibilities across various layers of processing.  • Configured Hibernate second level cache using EHCache to reduce the number of hits to the configuration table data.  • Extensively Used Ant tool to build and configure J2EE applications and used Log4J for logging in the application.  • Implemented client side validations for Search and Security modules using JavaScript and Validation Framework.  • Responsible for design and implementation of various modules of the application using Struts-Spring-Hibernate architecture.  • Automated the HTML and JSP pages indexing process of search module using ApacheAnt tool and singleton design pattern.  • Tested JSPs and Servlets used in search, security and scheduler modules using Cactus API.  • Done extensive coding using Java, J2EE for enhancements and bug fixes in agile development environment.  Environment: Java, J2EE, JSP, Struts, Hibernate, HTML, Eclipse, Apache Ant, JavaScript, JQuery, Oracle 10g, Windows XP Education Bachelor's Skills DJANGO (6 years), HTML (7 years), PYTHON (6 years), MYSQL (6 years), CSS (9 years) Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information Technical Skills:    • Primary Languages: Python, Java, C,C#  • Python Libraries: numpy, scipy, matplotlib, Pandas data frame, urllib2  • Frameworks: Bootstrap, Django, Node.JS, Flask, Pyramid  • Database: Sqlite3, MSSQL, MySQL, Mongo DB, Oracle 11g, NoSQL  • IDE's: PyCharm, Eclipse, MS Visual Studio  • Deployment tools: Amazon Web Services (EC2, S3, EBS, ELB, SES)  • Web Technologies: HTML, CSS, DHTML, XML, Java Script  • Operating systems: Windows, Mac, Fedora Linux, Red hat Linux, Cent OS  • SDLC Methods: SCRUM, Agile  • Bug Tracking Tools: JIRA, Bugzilla.  • Version Controls: SVN, Github, Git