Data Engineer Data Engineer Software/Data Engineer Lauderhill, FL Learning is joy has always been my mantra and has afforded me the opportunity to work in various subject areas including the sciences, engineering, information technology, project management, GIS and presently data science in the last 8 years of my career experience. My current focus is to use technology along with my multifaceted background and experience in these areas to develop solutions and solve problems in the most efficient way. When it comes to technology, my experience encompasses the development of software applications involving the use of technology such as Django, AngularJS, Python, R, Ruby on Rails, JavaScript, among others. In addition, I have also worked extensively with various database systems and Linux based systems supported by AWS. Outside of technology, I have successfully performed on various environmental and engineering projects for international clients who are world leaders in their trade as Project Manager and Staff Engineer. I enjoy having new challenges and not only relying on my background for solving problems but to also learn from new experiences and to contribute positively to next and upcoming generations of scientists and engineers. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Data Engineer Modernizing Medicine, Inc. - Boca Raton, FL May 2018 to Present Architect and Design infrastructure for efficiently processing and building data products and services made available to both internal and external clients.  Developed and Implemented good data warehousing practices for easy availability and usage of data.  Building Architecture for data being consolidated from various sources. Application Developer/Data Scientist Charter Schools USA - Fort Lauderdale, FL February 2017 to Present Developed in-house software applications to support the business processes.  ? Implemented the data architecture for the company's data warehouse.  ? Using SnapLogic and Python to develop automated solutions for the ETL processes to maintain data quality, integrity and consistency.  ? Working with machine learning algorithms to develop data integration solutions in the data warehouse.  ? Coordinated with various vendors in setting up data sources to support our ETL process.  ? Performed data exploration and analysis using Tableau. Adjunct Professor Broward College - Davie, FL Present Lecture Java Programming. Software Engineer( Python) 71 Pounds - Davie, FL September 2015 to February 2017 Implemented server resource management strategies to manage processes and ensure reliable execution and delivery of all the application processes.  ? Improved the application download performance from a process which usually took hours to complete in minutes.  ? Developed and implemented the front-end for managing all the application processes.  ? Developed programs and application for undertaking a number of automation processes which resulted in increased revenues for the company  ? Design, architect and implement program applications which improved the business process for efficiency and high productivity utilizing python and ruby on rails as programming framework.  ? Cloud management of all the servers including the database and queuing infrastructure and our app servers utilizing AWS services.  ? Implementing system administration tasks including, the implementation of database backup, server restoration and security features to ensure reliability in the company's operations. Software Developer(Contractor) - Python and Ruby WISHCLOUDS/Commerce Datascience - Boca Raton, FL September 2014 to July 2015 Successfully improving the Web Crawler System from 54% functionality to over 90% functionality  ? Improved the efficiency of the crawler system database operations by implementing more efficient techniques to insert, delete, update and query data based on AWS DynamoDB operations.  ? Cloud management of the Crawler Infrastructure utilizing AWS services which includes MongoDB, Redis, ElasticSearch, SQS and EC2.  ? Troubleshoot and resolve issues from a system and component perspective.  ? Developed scripts to resolve issues with the crawler system such as: developing regular expressions to extract particular data, developing query, update and delete operations to target modifying specific data in MongoDB.  ? Troubleshooting and resolving issues with the Linux based servers.  ? Developing and implementing shell scripts to monitor server processes.  ? Utilized web crawling tools including Nokogiri, Phantomjs, Mechanize and Capybara webkit.  ? Offer technical support in the planning, designing and implementation of new software technologies  ? Writes new Web Crawlers and maintain existing ones. ITS Helpdesk Support Andrews University ITS Department - Berrien Springs, MI September 2011 to May 2013 USA  ITS Helpdesk Support (On-Campus Employment)  ? Troubleshoot and resolve software and network issues for the Andrews University staff and students  ? Provide basic computer diagnostics support  ? Provide online customer support to staff and students. Project Manager/Staff Engineer Conrad Douglas & Associates Ltd - Kingston, JM November 2006 to July 2011 Project Manager for successfully carrying out a number of environmental closure plans and indoor air quality assessment projects.  ? Project Team Leader for carrying out a process analysis of the wastewater treatment and reverse osmosis plant of a reputable beer manufacturing company in Jamaica.  ? Project Coordinator for completing an Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) Project for a Fibre Optic Cable and meeting the requirements to successfully obtain an Environmental Permit and License for the client.  ? Team Leader for preparing and submitting monthly environmental monitoring reports to the Environmental Regulatory Authority on behalf of a reputable Bauxite/Alumina company.  ? Team Leader for organizing, conducting and preparing a number of Environmental Impact Statements (EIS) and Environmental Prefeasibility Studies for companies, including bauxite/alumina, cement and liquefied natural gas (LNG).  ? Offer general technical and administrative support in the following:  ? Evaluating industrial processes and process systems to identify and reduce process deficiency and providing solutions to bring industries in compliance with regulatory standards.  ? Performing Environmental Due Diligence Audits for acquisition of industrial and commercial entities, Ambient Air and Water Quality Assessments and Indoor Air Quality Assessments.  • Conducting EIAs and EIS projects for commercial and industrial entities.  • Preparing Project Proposals, including technical and financial proposals for project bids.  • Performing Project Planning, Costing and general Project Management Support  • Performing Administrative Management support.    PROJECTS  ? Design and Implemented a scalable application for processing hundreds of thousands of records using Python and Rails for 71 Pounds.  ? Implemented the Front-End for managing all the application processes for 71 Pounds.  ? Working with google app engine to develop a scalable application using python. https:// python-scalable-app-1088.appspot.com/  ? Building a simple web app using the flask framework (http://restaurants-menu.herokuapp.com/)  ? Co- developer of a Blog Engine Platform with MongoDB using Ruby on Rails (http://www.github.com/wmorris75)  ? Building a general prediction app for using R (https://wmorris75.shinyapps.io/gppredictor/)  ? R Projects: http://rpubs.com/wmorris  ? A Text Prediction Application that predicts the next word based on the input phrase: https://wmorris75.shinyapps.io/text_product/  ? Creator and Developer of waynemorris.info  ? Write new Web Crawlers and maintaining existing ones on the Wishclouds website(www.wishclouds.com)  ? Project Manager or Project Lead for the following projects:  ? Environmental Impact Assessment for the Proposed Landing of a Fibre Optic Cable (ALBA-1 Cable System) for Alcatel-Lucent in St. Ann, Jamaica, November 2010). http://www.nepa.gov.jm/eias/StAnn/Golden%20Sands%20Beach%20Cottages/FINAL_EIA_REPORT_ASN_NOV._10_10.pdf  ? EIA for the Proposed Land and Housing Subdivision for KENCASA, Trelawny, Jamaica, January 2010. http://www.nepa.gov.jm/eias/Trelawny/Martha-Brae/Holland_Estate/Holland_Estate_EIA.pdf  ? Phosphate and TDS Mass Balance of the Wastewater Treatment Plant and Reverse Osmosis Plant for Red Stripe (A Diageo Company) in Kingston, Jamaica, August 2009  ? EIA for WINDALCO New Lime Kiln in Manchester, Jamaica, August 2007. http://www.nepa.gov.jm/eias/Manchester/Kirkvine/Windalco.pdf Education M.Sc. in Software Engineering Andrews University - Berrien Springs, MI August 2011 to 2014 B.Eng. in Chemical Engineering University of Technology - Kingston, JM September 2002 to June 2006 Skills PYTHON (7 years), Ruby (6 years), Ruby on Rails (6 years), MONGODB (5 years), Rails (4 years), Java (3 years), C++ (3 years), PostgresSQL (3 years), Javascript (2 years), Spark, Hadoop, Big Data, Machine Learning, R Links http://github.com/wmorris75 http://digitalcommons.andrews.edu/theses/19/ Publications A Hierarchical Framework for Estimating Heterogeneous Architecture-based Software Reliability http://digitalcommons.andrews.edu/theses/19/ 2014-08 Development of an approach to estimating software reliability of Heterogeneous Architecture -based Systems. Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  ? Project Management  ? Proficiency in the use and troubleshooting of Linux/Unix OS and servers  ? Data Science  ? Data Analysis and Prediction using Regression Models and Machine Learning Algorithms  ? Use of Tableau and SnapLogic  ? Data Architecting and Integration  ? Proficiency in the following Programming languages  ? Ruby, C/C++, Java, Python, R  ? Javascript , JQuery, HTML, XML, CSS, ReactJS  ? Application Development Framework  ? Django  ? AngularJS  ? Flask  ? Android Development Framework  ? Ruby on Rails  ? Java Spring Framework  ? Google Maps API  ? Database Design, Optimization and Implementation using SQL, PostgreSQL, Oracle, SQL Server  ? RDMS, Redis, MongoDB and Amazon Web Services, including DynamoDB, S3, elasticsearch and SQS  ? ArcGIS applications including ArcMap, ArcCatalog, ArcScene  ? Microsoft Office Professional Suite