Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - ZIONS BANCORPORATION BANK Salt Lake City, UT ? Having total experience of 10 years in the IT industry as a software developer.  ? Currently working on H1-B Visa, in TCS for client Zions Bancorporation, located in Salt Lake City, USA  ? Strategic mindset that focuses on problem solving tasks and maintaining priorities on strict deadlines.  ? Involved in full development cycle of requirement gathering, POC, analysis, design, development, testing and implementation.  ? Successfully completed Data Analyst Nanodegree from Udacity. (online certification, 6 months course) Work Experience Python Developer ZIONS BANCORPORATION BANK January 2014 to Present Used python to develop REST API-based service (JSON output)  ? Experience with Requests, Numpy, Scipy, Matplotlib, and Pandas python libraries during development  ? Developed python scripting to automate parameter upload into Oracle Database from Excel.  ? Used python to generate reports for management, showing the quality of data migration and migration data load success percentage overtime, to understand the area of improvement.  ? Have Knowledge of multi threading, multi processing, asynchronous, GIL in python.  ? Have experience in JWT based authentication for RESTFUL API.  ? Deployed RESTFUL API application in NGINX AND UWSGI in LINUX and AWS EC2 instance.  ? Experience of working with relational databases like Oracle, SQLite, PostgreSQL, MySQL, DB2 and non-relational databases like MongoDB.  ? Help the bank and functional product consultant on the gap, fitment and changes.  ? All the existing REST API are build in Flask, for future project, where the number of users are more, we are implementing in Django REST API framework, recently done POC for feasibility.  ? Worked on Django in built library TestCase library for continuous integration and also Django ORM (object relational mapper)  ? Skilled in Object-Oriented Design and Programming using Python.  ? Done POC for automation configuration using Docker Containers for test environment, since the number of test environment increased drastically post go live. We have test environment one for daily EOD, one for finance testing, one for fast paced EOD, one for load testing. in order to maintain consistent with configuration and build version across all test environments, we have used Docker. All our environment are in LINUX.  ? Wrote python program for functional requirement like SBA (Small Business Administration loans) to determine interest from date and interest to date, for interface extract to Colson Services Corp. and python program for billing validation for consumer and commercial loans.  ? Used bulk collections for better performance and easy retrieval of data, by reducing context switching between SQL and PL/SQL engines.  ? Created database objects like tables, views, procedures, functions, dynamic SQL and packages using PL/SQL developer.  ? Developed PL/SQL procedure to merge tables, when we are integrating commercial loans with consumer loans.  ? Skilled in Object-Oriented Design and Programming using Python.  ? Responsibilities involved preparing technical design document, development and support for defects raised out of testing (during unit and UAT testing) for following functionalities of US Banking such as SBAL, Syndication, fees, backdating of payments, Backdating of parameters setup, Loan Extension and Multiple view functionality. Software Developer TCS April 2012 to December 2013 Banco Pichincha is the largest private bank in Ecuador with 5 million customers and 250 branches spread across the country. B?NCS Core Banking Suite enabled Banco Pichincha to integrate and centralize its customer base across the country and enhance customer satisfaction by providing them a 24x7 multi-channel banking service. I supported this implementation at client side for a period of 21 months. Carried out the following activities:    ? Worked on SOAP based web services in java for online banking interface.  ? Experience in developing and consuming Web Services using WSDL, SOAP, HTTP, and UDDI.  ? Experience in integration testing framework like SoapUI for testing the exposed web services.  ? Implemented Log4J for Logging Errors, debugging and tracking.  ? Worked in inward & outward clearing cheques interfaces, developed java batch programs to read incoming files, do validations and process the payment.  ? Participated twice in peer reviews and code reviews for every sprint.  ? Participated in the production deployment schedules.  ? used jasper tool for reports generation.  ? Interaction with BP Associates for Requirement gathering.  ? Design and development for the proposed functionality.  ? Handled critical project activities like Source Code version management, bug tracking and its root cause analysis.  ? Imparted technical know-how and development methodology to new joiners and other divisions who utilize TCS B?NCS Development methodology. Also trained end users on Product usage.  ? Production and Maintenance Support.  ? Involved in the analysis, design, and development and testing phases of Software Development Life Cycle  ? Created UML use case diagrams, sequence diagrams for the application using Rational Rose. Role Software Developer TCS - Allahabad, Uttar Pradesh August 2008 to March 2012 This project involves Enhancement, Customization and Defect fixing of Core Banking Solution package at a centralized location for three PSBs (Public Sector Banks) viz. Central Bank of India (CBI), Allahabad Bank (ALB) and Bank of Maharashtra (BOM) . Carried out the following activities:    ? Worked on SOAP based web services in java for third party banking interface.  ? Discussions with clients for requirement gathering.  ? Design for the proposed functionality briefing scope, change in functionality, workflow, components involved, and assumptions made.  ? Development of the design. Module Lead for Deposit Module and Tax Deduction Source (TDS) Module. Education Masters in Computer Science Gayatri Vidya Parishad College of Engineering - Visakhapatnam, Andhra Pradesh 2007 Skills INTEGRATION (7 years), INTEGRATOR (7 years), Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (5 years), API (5 years), AWS (5 years) Additional Information Technical Skills    Software Languages, Web Technologies  Python, SQL, PL/SQL, REST API, Flask, Django, HTML, CSS, R language, Tableau, COBOL, XML, JSON, XPATH, SQLAlchemy, Bootstrap, unittest, pdb ( Python debugger) and Jinja.    Tools  Jupyter notebook, R Studio, Spyder IDE of Anaconda. Tableau IDE. Oracle SQL developer, GIT. IBM Rational Collaborative (CLM), ALM (Application life Manager) . Github. Putty.    Dev ops Docker  Database Oracle 11g and 12c.  Methodology Waterfall model, Agile Model  Application Server Unix, Linux, Windows  Cloud technologies AWS EC2, AWS Lambda, AWS S3 and RDS. GCP VM Instances (Compute Engine) and App Engine  Domain Experience  Customer, Deposit, Loans, Insurance, Escrow, Billing and Statements, Syndication, Cash Drawer, User and Teller, Facility, Limits, Contingent Accounting, Forex, Collateral, Teller, Branch and institution accounting entries, General and Suspense Accounts, Treasury and Core banking integration Branch and Tickle Field, Currency and Exchange Rates, Fee and Charges, Payments, Sweep and Standing order, Reports, Statement and Notices, Domestic and International Trade Finance with swift Integration, Inland and Foreign Bank guarantees.