Scrum Master ( Python/Angular) Scrum Master (<span class="hl">Python</span>/Angular) Scrum Master ( Python/Angular) - Google(E-Touch) Irving, TX Michael is a very detail oriented full-stack Engineer who has recently learnt his expertise to a front-end architecture development, which includes, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, Angular 2. He has created visual assets for prototype and application developments.  He has created high-level digital artefacts, such as wireframes, interaction flows, and screen specifications. He has experience in customizing Social Network websites, such as Facebook and Twitter. He has created several websites using CSS, HTML, JavaScript, MySQL, SQL Server, PHP, .NET, Drupal, Joomla, online payment features, and form processing.  He has Hands-on experience with Visual Design tools used for assembling web graphics and logos, such as Photoshop, Fireworks, and InDesign. He has delivered a complete front-end application with angular 2.  He has ensured high performance on mobile and desktop. He has written, tested, idiomatic, and documented JavaScript, HTML and CSS. He has translated concepts into wireframes and mock-ups that lead to intuitive user experiences. He has facilitated client's product visions by researching, conceiving, wireframe, sketching, prototyping, and mocking up user experiences for digital products. He has designed and delivered wireframes, user stories, user journeys, and mock-ups optimized for a wide range of devices and interfaces. He has identified design problems and devise elegant solutions. He has made strategic design and user-experience decisions related to core, and new, functions and features. He has taken a user-centred design approach and rapidly test and iterate your designs. He has collaborated with other team members and stakeholders. He has the ability to take smart risks and champion new ideas. Work Experience Scrum Master ( Python/Angular) Google(E-Touch) June 2019 to Present Responsibilities:  • Responsible for Sprint Planning for the Dev Team  • Created New Features for Hauler Project  • Run Daily Sprint  • Use Python, Angular Material and Google's internal Applications Freelance TellApp - Chicago, IL May 2014 to Present Role Lead Web Developer    Responsibilities:  • Build applications utilizing Angular.js, .NET MVC, ReactJS.  • Work with Web Services and outside data sources.  • Bug fixing, maintenance, and application performance improvement.  • Migrate to new platforms. Technical Project Lead (Angular 5UI Developer) Citi Group - Irving, TX July 2018 to July 2019 Responsibilities:  • Using Citi standards in implementing new applications  • Created Custom building Angular 5 Components.  • Work with QA in fixing Bugs  • Leading deployment effort to DEV and UAT  • Use Angular 5, Bootstrap 4, Angular Material, JIRA, SASS, JSON, API for entire Project. Net Web Developer NMMA - Chicago, IL July 2017 to April 2018 Responsibilities:  • Bugs and Adjustments  • Site Enhancements and Refactor.  • Copy and Translations.  • C#, Entity Framework, NuGet, Visual Studio 2015, 2017.  • .net, Html5, CSS3, Knockout.js, Foundation.js, SASS Web Developer Middleby - Elgin, IL November 2016 to July 2017 Responsibilities:  • Site Redesign and Migration.  • Develop Custom tools for internal use.  • Bug fixing, maintenance, and application performance improvement.  • Site enhancement.  • WordPress/Drupal Web Developer Walgreens - Lincolnshire, IL April 2016 to May 2016 • Created responsive Visualforce pages for Walgreens photo help section.  • Created new static resource files, Visualforce Components, and Visualforce pages on the Salesforce platform. Web Developer SELECT ITALY - Chicago, IL May 2015 to June 2015 • Created URL redirect management tool.  • Using PHP to develop multi-currency function to covert international exchange rate.  • Bug fixing, maintenance, and application performance improvement. ARC Technology Group - Chicago, IL January 2015 to May 2015 • Created custom component, template, and modules for Joomla.  • Troubleshot and resolved bugs in client's website.  • Developed Joomla application connecting to Jira API.  • Built applications utilizing PHP. Visualization Project Lead (UX/UI Architect) State Farm Insurance - Bloomington, IL March 2013 to May 2014 Responsibilities:  Collaborate with digital project leads, project managers, developers, business analysts and other UI designers to define and implement innovative solutions for the product direction, visuals, and experience. I was part of the Holistic Prototyping Team, helping with building prototypes for internal clients as well.    • Execute all visual design stages from concept to final hand-off to the development team.  • Conceptualize original ideas that bring simplicity and user friendliness to complex design roadblocks.  • Create wireframes, storyboards, user flows, process flows, site maps, and prototypes to effectively communicate interaction and design ideas.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JSON, J Query, JavaScript, Photoshop, Fireworks, InDesign, Microsoft Visio, PHP, Visual Studio, Responsive Web Design. Web Developer Draft FCB / Farm Journal - Chicago, IL July 2012 to March 2013 Responsibilities:  • Customized modules and themes for Drupal. Built CMS using Drupal for various clients.  • Designed and developed web sites and promotional media for various businesses.  • Created concise web sites for specific client needs.  • Utilized CSS, HTML, JavaScript, MySQL, PHP, Drupal, Joomla, and LAMP, online payment features, and form processing.  • Created and assembled web graphics, including logos and advertisements.  • Designed email blasts and newsletters for site launches and event announcements.  • Migrated websites from one platform to another with limited time frame and with efficiency.  • Developed of an online application that helps with the submission and processing of abstracts for events.  • Developed web application to help distribute information within truck drivers across the United States. Web Development Instructor (HTML, PHP5 and CSS3) Management and Information Technology Solutions, Inc September 2011 to April 2012 • Work as instructor for HTML, CSS and PHP.  • Taught students fundamental web design, MVC structure, and advanced techniques in web application development.    Prior Experience can be furnished upon request Lead Software Engineer / Web Developer Wigitap International - Chicago, IL March 2006 to March 2011 Responsibilities:  • Develop web applications using LAMP stack environment (Linux, Apache, MySQL and PHP).  Design, development, and implementation of desktop applications in Visual Studio (VB, C#), Web Forms  • Clipper, FoxPro, and other 4GLs.  • Served as front-end lead web developer working with HTML5, J Query, and CSS.  • Crystal Report, MySQL.  • Creating and delivering ad hoc and routine reports as requested  • Building and supporting other team members' usage of their reports on Crystal Enterprise  • Maintaining database integrity    OTHER CLIENTS WORKED WITH: Education Bachelor's Degree in Technical Education West Africa Computer Science Institute Skills .net, Html, Javascript, Bootstrap, Php, Visio, Html5, Application performance, Jira, Qa testing, Css, Web services, Data sources, Ms sql server, Sql server, Mysql, Sql, jquery, Ux, Ssrs, Scrum Master, Agile Scrum, XML, Linux Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    • HTML (10yrs)  • HTML5 (5yrs)  • JavaScript (5yrs)  • JQuery (5yrs)  • Bootstrap (4yrs)  • Angular 7 (4 yrs)  • React (3 yr)  • Node(4yr)  • CSS3 (3yrs)  • UX Design (6yrs)  • Adobe Suites (5yrs)  • .NET (4yrs)  • Project Management (3yrs)  • Magento (2yrs)  • PHP (4yrs)  • Axure RP (4yrs)  • Microsoft Visio (6yrs)  • UXpin (2yrs)  • Jira (2yr)  • SourceTree (4yrs)  • Github Zend Studio (5yrs)  • Visualforce (force.com) (3yrs)  • Agile/SCRUM methodologies (5yrs)  • AWS  • Azure  • Visual Design (6yrs)    OTHER RESPONSIBILITIES    • Create responsive Visualforce pages for Walgreens photo help section.  • Create new static resource files, Visualforce Components, and Visualforce pages on the Salesforce platform.  • Build applications utilizing Angular, Bootstrap, HTML5 and PHP.  • Work with web services and outside data sources.  • Bug fixing, maintenance, and application performance improvement.  • Migrate to new platforms.  • Create high-level digital artifact, using Photoshop, InDesign and Fireworks.    Visual Studios 2010/2012/2015/2017, Entity Framework, NuGet package manager, MS SQL server Studio, SSRS    Joomla: Over 4 years of Joomla experience. Worked with Modules, component and MySQL. Other experiences include module and component customization, theme design, CSS and module positioning, utilizing bootstrap.    • Joomla component development using PHP.  • Joomla custom template creation using PHP, CSS3, HTML5 and Bootstrap 3.  • Create wireframes, storyboards, user flows, process flows, site maps and prototypes to effectively communicate interaction and design ideas.  • QA testing and code documentation using phDocumentor.    Drupal 6, 7 and 8: Over 4 years' experience, working with blocks, menus, scripts, themes, and data.    WordPress: Edit and customize WordPress plugins in accordance to customers' needs. Write and extend WordPress plugins. Over 4 Years' Experience.