Python Developer / IT Admin <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> / IT Admin Python Developer / IT Admin North Hollywood, CA Humble Python developer. Lover of Linux, Python, micro frameworks, and  all things open source. Looking to join a team I can help move to new heights.    Github https://github.com/tlscripts Work Experience Python Developer / IT Admin JHL Financial November 2014 to June 2019 • Api development using Python  • Creation of custom software and code maintenance of in-house tools  and technologies.  • Lead generation by means of multiple public and private API  aggregation and redistribution in useful forms.  • Maintained and created private APIs to access past client data  retrieval, database storage and future prospecting  • Maintained and created in-house CRUD application for management  visibility and pipeline statuses  • Database, programming, management, manipulation, data integrity, back up and upkeep  • Data mining and munging with Pandas and other Python libraries for lead generation and market research  • Deployment auotmation. 1 click server provisioning and site  deployment and version control via python scripting to Linux  platforms/servers  • Linux server administration. Linux scripting via Bash and Python, Linux environment setup automation for local and remote servers.  • Basic office automation E commerce Admin and Content Creator ASTEK Wallcovering January 2009 to November 2014 • Administered back end of Drupal CMS Ecommerce web store.  • Product creation and content copy writing, photography  • SEO Search Engine Optimization  • Office IT QA and Scrum Assistant WeddingChannel.com 2008 to 2008 • Website functionality QA  • Assistance with daily scrum and organization Education B.S. in Business Administration California State University Los Angeles December 2004 Skills Api, Git, Python, Flask, Pandas, Scripting, Database, Sql, Linux, Unix, Version control, Deployment, Selenium, Database management, MYSQL Additional Information SKILLS • Python programming, libraries include but not limited to Flask,  SqlAlchemy, Pandas, Fabric, Pymongo  • API development  • Linux server deployment, version control  • Database management and manipulation  • SQL  • Python Selenium  • GIT  • Desktop and office automation  • Unix based OS scripting  • "If I don't know it, I'll learn it"