Sr. AWS/DevOps Engineer Sr. AWS/DevOps Engineer Sr. AWS/DevOps Engineer - AT&T Plano, TX • 11 years of experience in IT, which includes 5+ years of experience as AWS/DevOps Engineer in areas of Software Configuration Management, Version Control, Build and Release management, Change management, Cloud Integration.  • Expertise in Amazon AWS Cloud Administration which includes services like: EC2, S3, EBS, VPC, ELB, AMI, SNS, RDS, IAM, Route 53, Auto scaling, Cloud Front, Cloud Watch, Cloud Trail, Cloud Formation, OPS Work, Security Groups.  • Administration various environments in software development life cycle (SDLC) Windows, Ubuntu, Red Hat Linux, SUSE Linux and CentOS. Experience supporting Chef Environment with multi servers and involved in developing manifests.  • Devops experience with Puppet, Ansible, Kubernets, Chef, AWS (OPS Work) and OpenStack.  • Created private cloud using Kubernets that supports DEV, TEST, and PROD environments.  • Configured and monitored distributed and multi-platform servers using chef. Defined Chef Server and workstation to manage and configure nodes.  • Developed Chef Cookbooks and Recipes to manage systems configuration.  • Experience in branching, tagging and maintaining the version across the environments working on Software Configuration Management (SCM) tools like Subversion (SVN) and GIT.  • Experience in cloud stack such as AWS (Cloud formation) and VMWARE stack.  • Creating Linux Virtual Machines using VMware Virtual Center (ESXI), hypervisor-v, PHP Virtual Box.  • Design high availability(HA)applications on AWS across Availability Zones and Availability Regions  • Experience in working with Web-Development technologies like HTML, Java Script, CSS, XML.  • Good Exposure on Virtualization and Containers (Docker) and Hypervisors ESXI, ESX.  • Ability to build deployment, build scripts and automated solutions using scripting languages such as Shell scripting (kasha, Bash), Python, Ruby, PHP PERL.  • Have a good knowledge on programming languages like Java, .NET  • Worked on web servers like Apache and application servers like Web logic, Tomcat, WebSphere, and JBOSS to deploy code.  • Extensively worked on Jenkins and Hudson by installing, configuring and maintaining for the purpose of continuous integration (CI) and for End to End automation for all build and deployments.  • Extensive experience with software Build automation and standardization tools like ANT, Maven, and Gradle.  • Used AWS Beanstalk for deploying and scaling web applications and services developed with Java, PHP, Node. js, Python, Ruby, and Docker on familiar servers such as Apache, and IIS.  • Good knowledge in CI (Continuous Integration) and CD (Continuous Deployment) methodologies.  • Installed and Managed Jenkins and Nexus for CI and Sharing Artifacts respectively within the company.  • Experience in Installing Firmware Upgrades, kernel patches, systems configuration, performance tuning on Unix/Linux systems.  • Configuring network services such as DNS, NFS, SMTP, NTP, DHCP, LDAP, SAMBA, SQUID, postfix, send mail, ftp, remote access, security management and Security trouble shooting skills.  • Experience with Oracle, Cassandra DB, MySQL DB Tasks.  • Strong ability to troubleshoot any issues generated while building, deploying and in production support.  • Closely worked with Developers and Analysts to address project requirements. Able to effectively manage time and prioritize multiple projects. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. AWS/DevOps Engineer AT&T - Richardson, TX March 2018 to Present Responsibilities: -  • Experience in automation and continuous integration processes with Jenkins, Chef.  • Code repository management, code merge and quality checks with various tools, especially Git, nexus, etc.  • Architect Development, Test, Integration, and Production AWS environments.  • AWSEC2, EBS, Trusted Advisor, S3, Cloud Watch, Cloud Front, IAM, Security Groups, Auto-Scaling.  • AWS CLI Auto Scaling and Cloud Watch Monitoring creation and update.  • Solid understanding of Linux OS, including security, compilation, and installation of third-party software and networking.  • Continuous integration and automated deployment and management using Jenkins, Chef, Maven, Ant, Docker, or comparable tools.  • Setup and build AWS infrastructure various resources, VPCEC2, S3, IAM, EBS, Security Group, Auto Scaling, and RDS in Cloud Formation JSON templates.  • Experience with web deployment technology specifically Linux/Nginx/Apache/Tomcat.  • Redesigned infrastructure for high availability using multiple AWS availability zones.  • Development, Acceptance, Integration, and Production AWS Endpoints.  • Responsible for mentoring and cross-resource platform standardization of Web Stack technology and development and implementing of policies and procedures.  • Experience in analyzing and monitor performance bottlenecks and key metrics in order to optimize software and system performance.  • Route 53 configuration.  • Created Python scripts to: Totally automate AWS services, which includes web servers, ELB, Cloud front distribution, database, ec2 and database security groups, S3 bucket and application configuration, this script creates stacks, single servers, or joins web servers to stacks.  • Experience running LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and PHP) systems in agile quick scale cloud environment.  • Dynamically add and remove servers from AWS production environment.  • Automating backups by shell for Linux to transfer data in S3 bucket.    Environment: Git, Jenkins, Maven, nginx, Ansible, AWS, VPC, Microsoft Azure, Shell scripting, Apache Tomcat, chef, ClearCase, VM, REST and python. DevOps Engineer Allegis Group Inc - Hanover, MD July 2016 to February 2018 Responsibilities:  • Configured Puppet to perform automated deployments. Expert in User Management and Plugin Management for Puppet.  • Create Chef Recipes, automation tools and builds, and do an overall process improvement to any manual processes.  • Written multiple cookbooks in Chef using Ruby scripting language.  • Developed and implemented Software Configuration Management strategies for various applications according to the agile process using Git/GitHub.  • Imported and managed multiple corporate applications in Git.  • Designed and scripting using Gradle & MAVEN for (J2EE, WebServices, Reusable JARS, Web Client and Open Source) in creating MasterBuild.xml.  • Acted as Release Manager on several projects utilizing various build and release tools (Team City, Jenkins, VSTS, Powershell, Terraform and many more)  • Worked with Amazon Web Services (EC2,Elastic search,Route53,Elastic Beanstalk,VPC,Iaas).  • Using Docker container enabled rapid deployment with minimum run-time requirements.  • Developed PowerShell/Ruby Scripts for automation purpose.  • Installed Jenkins and Nexus, Performed troubleshooting during the build failures.  • Worked in Devops group running Jenkins in a Docker container with EC2 slaves in Amazon AWS cloud configuration. Also gain familiarity with surrounding technologies such as Mesos (and Mesosphere) and Kubernets.  Environment: AWS EC2, S3, Cloud Formation, Dynamo DB, VPC, IAM, Tomcat Apache, Micro-Services, Cloud Watch, Git, Linux, Jenkins, Maven, Ansible, JVM etc. DevOps Engineer Allstate - Chicago, IL November 2014 to July 2016 Responsibilities:  • Assisted in migrating the exiting data center into the AWS instances.  • Migrated applications to the AWS cloud.  • Installed the application on AWS EC2 AMI, Redhat, Ubuntu Instances  • Configured the storage on S3 Buckets.  • Experience working with IAM in order to create new accounts, roles, and groups.  • Developed Chef recipes to configure, deploy and maintain software components of the existing infrastructure  • Used Chef to manage Web Applications, Config Files, Data Base, Commands, Users, Mount Points, and Packages.  • Written cookbooks for Web Logic, JDK 1.7, and Jenkins, tomcat, JBoss and deployment automation.  • Use puppet and Chef Automation tools for configuration management in different systems.  • Reduced build + deployment times by designing and implementing Docker workflow.  • Set up system for dynamically adding and removing web services from a server using Docker, Nginx.  • Configured Docker container for branching purposes.  • Managed and configured VMware virtual machine for RHEL, Ubuntu Linux servers  • Experience in creating alarms and notifications for EC2 instances using Cloud Watch.  • Implemented AWS solutions using E2C, S3, RDS, EBS, Elastic Load Balancer, Auto-scaling groups.  • Monitoring Live Traffic, logs, Memory utilization, Disk utilization and various other factors, which are important for deployment.  • Experience with Ruby and shell scripts for automating tasks.  • Created the Release process of the artifacts.  • JIRA is used as ticket tracking, change management and Agile/SCRUM tool.  • Experience in designing and implementing continuous integration system using Jenkins by creating Python and Perl scripts.  • Implemented the setup for Master slave architecture to improve the Performance of Jenkins.  • Installed, configured and maintained DNS, FTP and TCP/IP on Red Hat Linux.  • Installed, configured and maintained web servers like HTTP Web Server, Apache Web Server, Apache Tomcat, Nginx, JBoss.    Environment: SVN, GIT, ANT, Maven, Azure, Chef, Puppet, Jenkins, UNIX, Linux, Perl, Bash, Python, Ruby, Weblogic, Tomcat. Python Developer Vision Plus Technologies - Bengaluru, Karnataka November 2010 to October 2014 Responsibilities:  • Hands- on experience in developing web applications using Python on Linux and Unix platform  • Sound knowledge of front end development HTML, JavaScript, CSS and AJAX  • Proficient in range of J2EE technologies and frameworks like Struts and Spring  • Solid coding skills in both C / C++, Perl and Python  • Great ability to structure lay-outs, charts and graphs  • In-depth knowledge of designing, coding and testing web based applications  • Outstanding ability to write solid, tested code using dynamic languages and processes for projects  • Exceptional ability to work independently with a team of Python coders  • Ability to multi-task and work in a fast paced environment Data Analyst Knoah Solutions - Hyderabad, Telangana December 2007 to October 2010 Responsibilities:  • Extracted, compiled and tracked data, and analyzed data to generate reports.  • Worked with other team members to complete special projects and achieve project deadlines.  • Developed optimized data collection and qualifying procedures.  • Leveraged analytical tools to develop efficient system operations.  • Interpret data from primary and secondary sources using statistical techniques and provide ongoing reports.  • Compile and validate data; reinforce and maintain compliance with corporate standards.  • Develop and initiate more efficient data collection procedures.  • Working with managing leadership to prioritize business and information requirements. Education Bachelors of Science Sri Venkateswara University 2006 Skills .NET, DOCKER, Git, GRADLE, HTML