Sr. Python developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">developer</span> Sr. Python developer - Mitchell Martin, Inc ? Having 4+ Years of Experience as web/application developer software development and design using python, Django, Java, Webapp2, Angular.js, HTML/CSS, JavaScript and jQuery  ? Experienced in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, Subroutines, functions on SQL, PL/SQL and PostgreSQL database.  ? Experienced in understanding principles and best practices of Software Configuration Management (SCM) processes, which include compiling, packaging, deploying and Application configurations.  ? Extensive hands-on experience of using Python packages like NumPy, Matplotlib, Beautiful soup, Pickle, PySide, SciPy, PyTables, Beautiful Soap, Urlib2 libraries.  ? Expertise in generating Python PostgreSQL Forms to record d of online users and used Python and PostgreSQL for creating graphics, data exchange and XML processing.  ? Experience of working with relational databases like oracle, SQLite, PostgreSQL, MYSQL, DB2 and on NoSQL databases like Apache Cassandra and MongoDB  ? Experience in configuring and automating various AWS services like EC2, S3, Boto3 library and worked on Big Data analytical models developed in Python  ? Experience in Continuous integration, Build Automation and deployment tools like Apache ANT, Maven, Jenkins, Chef, Puppet, Ansible, Docker and Nagios  ? Experienced in writing SQL Queries, Stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, triggers using relational database like Oracle, DB2, MySQL, Sybase, PostgreSQL and MS SQL server  ? Good Experience with Django, a high-level Python Web framework. Experience object-oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python.  ? Experience working in Java, JavaScript, and Python software development environments using Agile methodology.  ? Experience with design, code, debug operations, reporting, and data analysis utilizing Python  ? Good experience using various Python libraries to speed up development (libraries used: Beautiful Soup, NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas data frame, network, urllib2, MySQL dB for database connectivity, JSON libraries)  ? Worked on various operating systems like Windows, UNIX, LINUX and Mac OS.  ? Special skills in development of effective, user-friendly web applications. Experienced in requirement gathering, use case development, Business Process flow, Business Process Modeling: extensively used UML to develop various use cases, class diagrams and sequence diagrams.  ? Experienced in working with various Python Integrated Development Environments like NetBeans, PyCharm, PyScripter, PyDev, Eclipse and sublime Text.  ? Experience in AWS like Amazon EC2, Amazon S3, Amazon Redshift, Amazon EMR and Amazon SQS.  ? Actively involved in Initial software development life cycle (SDLC) of requirement gathering and also in suggesting system configuration specifications during client interaction.  ? Designed mockups, GUI layouts by using HTML4, DHTML, XHTML, XML, CSS and JavaScript.  ? Hands on experience in using Hadoop ecosystem components like Hadoop, Hive, Pig, Sqoop, HBase, Cassandra, Spark, Spark Streaming, Spark SQL, Oozie, Zookeeper, Kafka, Flume, MapReduce and Yarn.  ? Experienced in creating AWS IAM and Security Group in Public and Private Subnets in VPC. Created AWS Route53 to route traffic between different regions.  ? Strong Experience and Expertise in Object Oriented Analysis and Design and implementation of Object-Oriented Analysis Design using C++.  ? Good knowledge in various stages of SDLC (Software Development Life Cycle), Software Testing Life Cycle (STLC) and QA methodologies from project definition to post-deployment documentation.  ? Experienced in understanding principles and best practices of Software Configuration Management (SCM) processes, which include compiling, packaging, deploying and Application configurations.  ? Exposure on backup and recovery engine for VM backup/recovery using VMware vSphere APIs, Golang programming language and RabbitMQ Message bus (communication interface)  ? Experience on Contributing source code in Golang to developing an automation framework for AWS CFN.  ? Involved in Continuous Integration (CI) and Continuous Delivery (CD) process implementation using Jenkins along with Shell script.  ? Hands on experience in Java Script, Angular JS, AJAX, CSS, HTML and Bootstrap  ? In-depth knowledge of front-end Single Page Application (SPA) development using open source framework AngularJS.  ? Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language. Good experience with Unix, Linux scripting/unit testing/Load testing, Performance stress/endurance testing and Integration Testing; tools and frameworks- Junit, PyUnit, HP VUGEN LoadRunner, Selenium Web driver, Controller, Dynatrace, Performance Center, QC, JIRA.  ? Experience in implementing with server-side technologies with restful API and MVC design patterns with Django framework.  ? Added support for AWS S3 by creating S3 buckets, managing policies and RDS to host static files into the Amazon cloud.  ? Worked with search business team to implement dynamic rule updates to search using elastic search. Work Experience Sr. Python developer Mitchell Martin, Inc - Charlotte, NC February 2019 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Developed Views and Templates with Python and using Django's view controller and template language for the Web application.  ? Migrated infrastructure from inhouse servers to AWS cloud. Used Docker Container, EC2, IAM, RDS, Route 53, REST API gateway and Lambda of AWS.  ? Designed and Developed User Interface using front-end technologies like HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, AngularJS, Bootstrap and JSON.  ? Implemented a Continuous Delivery pipeline with Docker, Jenkins and GitHub and AWS AMI's.  ? Analyzed the SQL scripts and designed solutions to implement using pyspark. created custom new columns depending up on the use case while ingesting the data into Hadoop lake using pyspark  ? Designed, developed, coded and worked in penetration testing in customized DOL-AWS GovCloud Node.js Security Monitoring of VPC Zones using AWS - Lambda to load customized Spark-Scala GraphX Application.  ? Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  ? Maintenance and continues development of the applications in PL/SQL procedures, ETL modules and shell scripting using best practices.  ? Responsible for Continuous Integration (CI) and Continuous Delivery (CD) process implementation using Jenkins along with Shell scripts to automate routine jobs.  ? Created Terraform scripts for EC2 instances, Elastic Load balancers and S3 buckets. Implemented Terraform to manage the AWS infrastructure and managed servers using configuration management tools like Chef and Ansible.  ? Designed, developed, coded, worked in penetration testing and implemented a concurrent - multi-parallel - event oriented-processing - AKKA Actor System and Actors; to consume Scala Spark-SQL Rules which aggregated data to produce Quality Performance Reports (QPR) on Fiscal projections against Apprentice and Intern Job data.  ? Developed Spark Streaming script which consumes topics from distributed messaging source Kafka and periodically pushes batch of data to spark for real time processing  ? Worked in Apache CGI, Cherrypy, python and Bash programming on Red Hat virtual machines to maintain and automate Splunk server deployments and other in house IT operations.  ? Created internal diagnostic tools using Golang and AngularJS in order to assist with customer issues. Golang and Java were used as a backend REST service while AngularJS was used for the user interface.  ? Tested entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework. Python Developer Whole Foods - Austin, TX December 2017 to November 2018 Responsibilities:  ? Interacting with business to understand the requirement, developing and supporting it from SIT, UAT to PROD.  ? Extensively worked on Jenkins by installing, configuring and maintaining for Continuous integration (CI) and for End to End automation for all build and deployments.  ? Exposed to various phases of Software Development Life Cycle using Agile - Scrum Software development methodology.  ? Launched Kubernetes to provide a platform for automating deployment, scaling and operations of application containers across clusters of hosts.  ? Developed strategy to migrate Dev/Test/Production from an enterprise VMware infrastructure to the IaaS Amazon Web Services (AWS) Cloud environment including runbook processes and procedures.  ? Coded various business process methods required for creation of Web Services related to customer information and provider information, using JAX-WS, SOAP, WSDL and JAX-RS, REST web services.  ? Developed and Tested features of dashboard using CSS, JavaScript, Django, and Bootstrap.  ? Wrote Stored Procedures in SQL and Scripts in Python for data loading. Developed and Tested features of dashboard using CSS, JavaScript, Django, and Bootstrap.  ? Wrote Stored Procedures in SQL and Scripts in Python for data loading.  ? Worked with Requests, ReportLab, Numpy, Scipy, Matplotlib, HTTPLib2, Urllib2, Beautiful Soup and Pandas python libraries during development lifecycle  ? Provided 24x7 support for several host production, QA, and development OLTP databases as well as hundreds of off-site store databases.  ? Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  ? Performed efficient delivery of code based on principles of Test-Driven Development (TDD) and continuous integration to keep in line with Agile Software Methodology principles.  ? Implemented presentation layer using CSS framework, NodeJS, AngularJS, Angular2, Angular4, Wire-Framing and HTML5.  ? Responsible for setting up AngularJS framework for UI development. Developed html views with HTML5, CSS3, JSON and AngularJS, Angular2, Angular4, Adobe flash.  ? Build servers using AWS, importing volumes, launching EC2, RDS, creating security groups, auto-scaling, load balancers (ELBs) in the defined virtual private connection and open stack to provision new machines for clients.  ? Created new JSP views to incorporate backend functionality to display on the UI screens using client rich technologies like JQuery, JavaScript, HTML, CSS files.  ? Python/Django based web application, Postgre SQLDB, and integrations with 3rd party email, messaging, storage services.  ? Develop consumer-based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML, Behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pair-based programming.  ? Designed and developed integration methodologies between client web portals and existing software infrastructure using SOAP API's and vendor specific frameworks.  ? Designed, developed, implemented, and maintained solutions for using Docker, Jenkins, Git, and Puppet for microservices and continuous deployment.  ? Used React JS in components like JSX, creating React components, Virtual DOM, React Props, Lifecycle methods, working with the React States and Events.  ? Developed Restful API's using Python Flask and SQL Alchemy data models as well as ensured code quality by writing unit tests using Pytest.  ? Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, MySQL, Jenkins, and custom tools developed in Python.  ? Involved in using Python, MongoDB and ReactJS for the design, development, and deployment of the application.  ? Worked with View Sets in Django-REST framework for providing web services and consumed web services performing CRUD operations.  ? Involved in merging the code into different stages like Development to System Testing, UAT, Staging and Production using Sub Version Controlling (SVN) tool  ? Managed datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL, queried MySQL database queries from Python using Python -MySQL connector MySQL dB package to retrieve information.  ? Expertise in client scripting language and serve scripting languages like JavaScript, JQuery, JSON and Bootstrap. Software developer Accenture - Pune, Maharashtra June 2015 to November 2016 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in the all life-cycle design and development & Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS, Bootstrap and JavaScript. Also Used Python scripts for automation of production tasks.  ? Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) such as requirements gathering, modeling, analysis, design and development.  ? Have good experience on working with relational databases (RDBMS) and NoSQL Databases like MongoDB.  ? Experience working with SSH client on the Linux Operating System.  ? Experience with Unit testing/ Test driven Development (TDD), Behavior Driven Development, Load Testing.  ? Wrote REST APIs, as part of developing web-based applications for insurance premium calculations, using Django's REST framework.  ? Involved in writing stored procedures using MySQL.  ? Worked with JSON based REST Web services.  ? Involved in capturing the requirements for serial functional interface and other software requirements specification document.  ? Support the scripts configuration, testing, execution, deployment and run monitoring and metering with shell programs.  ? Used Python and Django to develop this web application, processed XML formatted data, and performed data exchange and business logic implementation between servers.  ? Experience working on with Amazon Web Services (AWS), Amazon EC2 instances, Load Balancing, Amazon Dynamo DB.  ? Experience in developing Web Applications based on MVC architecture using Python, Django, Flask. Education Bachelor's Skills AWS (2 years), CSS (2 years), DJANGO (2 years), HTML (2 years), PYTHON (2 years) Additional Information SKILLS  Programming: Python, java, C++, Perl, Ruby, Objective c, PL/SQL  Web Technologies: Html, CSS, Java Script, XML  Web Framework: Django, Flask, Pyramid, Node JS, Hibernate, Angular JS  Python Libraries: NumPy, SciPy, Pandas, Matplotlib, PyTables  Version Controls: GIT, SVN, CVS  Web Services: REST, SOAP, AWS  Data Bases: Microsoft SQL Server, Oracle, MYSQL, Cassandra, PostgreSQL, MongoDB  CI/CD tools: Ansible, Chef, Puppet  Testing: Unit testing, Integration testing.  Operating Systems: Windows7, 8 & 10, Linux/Unix Ubuntu, MAC OS  Protocols: TCP/IP, HTTP/HTTPS, SNMP, SMTP, Deployment Tools Heroku, Jenkins  Web Servers: JBoss 4.0.5, BEA Web Logic, Web Sphere, Apache Tomcat 5.5/6.0.  Other Tools: Eclipse, ANT Build, Putty, Visual Studio  Methodologies: Agile (TDD, Scrum), Waterfall.