PYTHON-POSTGRES SQL BACKEND DEVELOPER <span class="hl">PYTHON</span>-POSTGRES SQL BACKEND <span class="hl">DEVELOPER</span> PYTHON-POSTGRES SQL BACKEND DEVELOPER - WARBY PARKER Eatontown, NJ Work Experience PYTHON-POSTGRES SQL BACKEND DEVELOPER WARBY PARKER - New York, NY June 2019 to Present • Code refactoring, python backend code    • converted postgres sql database calls to python API calls    • DJANGO and sql alchemy frameworks for code refactoring    • Database redesign, python 3.6.0 code generation IT Python Integrator/Team Lead PNC BANK - Pittsburgh, PA January 2019 to May 2019 • Developed separate flows to support different kinds of memory access  • Designed the Web application Using Python on Django Web Framework pattern to make it extensible andflexible.  • Used the Model View controller (MVC) framework to build modular and maintainable applications  • Building reusable code and libraries for future use.  • Developed scalable applications using Django framework.  • Build all database mapping classes using Django models with the help of ORM like SQLAlchemy.  • Used data structures like directories, tuples, object oriented class based inheritance features for making  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and Pylist. Senior Python Developer CITY NATIONAL BANK OF NEW JERSEY - Newark, NJ May 2014 to December 2018 • Developed several algorithms for generating several data patterns  • Added several options to the application to choose particular algorithm for data and address generation.  • Developed separate flows to support different kinds of memory access  • Developed the application using C language and Assembly instructions  • Maintained versions using CVS and sending the release notes for each release.  • Wrapper developed in Python for instantiating multi-threaded application and running with other applications  • Supported the issues seen in the tool across all the teams for several projects.  • Worked on several python packages like numpy, scipy, pytables. Developed, Tested Python Screen for Hadoop Big Data processing and developed queries in Hive, Pig  • Experienced in Design, Development, Testing, Automation, Enhancement and Maintenance of Applications and Tools.  • Good knowledge in various phases of SDLC Requirement Analysis, Design, Development and Testing on various Development and Enhancement Projects.  • Created RESTful APIs using DJANGO framework  • Developed server based web traffic statistical analysis tool using Flask. Developed internal auxiliary web apps using Python Flask framework with CSS / HTML framework  • Created GUI using JSP, java Script and jQuery.  • Designed and developed Use Cases, Class Diagrams and Sequence Diagram using UMLImplemented AWS CLOUD for the bank from an archaic data center; Requirements, Cost analysis, Profitability, implementation and rollout, test, and ERPDeveloped the front end screen using AJAX and EXT-JS.  • Setup AWS CLOUD, EC2, S3, Elastic Search parameters, configuration.  • Set up and log into your AWS account. Log into the AWS Management Console and set up root account. Launch an  • Amazon EC2 instance. Configure your instance. Connect to your instance.  • AWS Management Console to launch and manage cloud resources.  • Setup AWS lambda , configure, code import, scaleup.  • Setup of Docker, container kubernetes, loaded microservices on images, AWS lambda for scale up.  • configured using kubernetes yaml file, loaded docker images into containers, implemented AWS code images and scaleup.  • Worked with Rabbit MQ for task Manager, messaging, transfer data using Restful API  • Created Kubernetes clusters, with messaging and task management using Celery and Rabbit MQ.  • Implemented CELERY MQ for Queuing message cluster management.  • Utilized DJANGO-REST-FRAMEWORK-MONGOENGINE for Updates to MONGODB database. Python Developer SOVEREIGN BANK - Short Hills, NJ March 2013 to March 2014 •Developed web applications in Django Framework's model view control (MVC) architecture.  •Used python and Django Framework to develop application.  • Extensive experience in deploying, managing and developing Oracle SQL developer clusters.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web based solution.  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and Business logic implementation.  • Used Python based GUI components for the front-end functionality such as selection criteria, Administration of dedicated collocated RHEL 4 machine and configured complex Apache configuration files.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Writing Python scripts with Cloud Formation templates to Automate installation of Auto scaling, EC2, VPC, and other services.  • Created Restful API's to integrate and enhance functionalities of the application. Also Utilized Restful API in communicating with third parties.  • Experience with working on Linux server.  • Used PyChecker for testing code.  • Used Python to place data into JSON files for testing Django Websites. Created scripts for data modeling and data import and export.  • HTML, SASS, Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript used to create UI for the website.  • JQuery and AJAX call used for more interactive web pages. Ensured quality versioning data modeling and data import and export.  • Used JIRA for tracking and Updating Project issue. Python Developer JPMORGAN CHASE - Iselin, NJ July 2012 to January 2013 •Developed data management plane in python to collect data on WLAN Controller, submit to SPLUNK for analysis and do root cause analysis, proactive user experience monitoring and dynamic alerting using MVC, Web Frameworks(Django), MongoDB  • Automating Tasks and scale systems by developing automatic test cases, building frameworks  • Developed using object oriented methodology a dashboard to monitor the all network access points and network performance metrics using Django, Python, MongoDB, JSON  • Developed application for monitoring, root cause analysis and management of WLAN data by parsing log using Python Django, MongoDB and creating JSON format  • Developed Python feature for parsing data from logs, alerts, network dump and create a analysis matrix to display  • Experience reading C++ code, understanding it and debugging the C++ code  • Application developed parses information from logs and provides analysis of data by mapping to information in database to provide analysis for proactive monitoring and alerts  • Developed application that used IP based protocols such as TCP, UDP, HTTP, SSL, for analyzing data of L2/L3 and WIFI Data for QA and testing process  • Interacted and communicated across multiple team and to discuss requirements, design aspects of application  • Used web2py, SQLALCHEMY, Python-eve, flask and MongoDB for developing proactive analysis application  • Experience and worked building applications using Model-View-Controller design patterns with python in client server environment setup  • Testing, Debugging and fixing issues related to Automation framework  • Understanding C++ implementation of Software Stack for debugging, implementation of framework  • Set up the PXT, Agilent boxes for simulation of wireless networks for testing  • Analyzing the data flow from Network and on Mobile devices for various configuration  • Developing XML based Test cases and Use cases for testing multiple Scenario Business Analyst TD BANK - Shrewsbury, NJ February 2005 to January 2012 • Directly responsible for 25% revenue increase as a result of successful project execution.  • Identified need for change in loan origination and application software; implemented change with dramatic measurable improvement in efficiency and productivity.  • Defined and recommended process improvement initiatives to maximized and exceed stakeholders' value.  • Collaborated to define strategy, and created enterprise architecture for migration to architecture. Senior Engineer TITAN SYSTEMS CORPORATION, I/LS DIVISION - Shrewsbury, NJ March 1999 to April 2004 Provided technology excellence by conducting extensive module, integration and user acceptance testing of global directory services. Installed web servers; tested and conducted interoperability; performed replication and fault tolerance testing to implementation completion.  • Improved and reduced access time of DIT structure by optimizing queries, and LDAP interface.  • Improved upon XML and interoperability which resulted in a compatible x.500 directory services between Netscape, Novell, and Microsoft active directory. Contributed towards several RFCs.  • Tested routers for robustness, packet loss and router performance; verified minimal packet loss through routers and efficiency of router pre and post configuration.  • Mentored and developed training and development programs for junior computer scientists.  • Recommended and tested LINUX operating system, tuned kernel, and studied X.500 directory services, resulting in cost saving due to freeware operating system.  • Mentored and developed training and development programs for junior computer scientists.  • Installed, maintained Websphere directory, enterprise, and administrative servers, CGI scripting, Load Balancing, Server. Programmed the ldap interface in C language.  • Parsed Directory services standards as input toward Request for Comments (RFC) and IETF. UNIX/ Clearcase Systems Administrator, Packet Star Router Project LUCENT TECHNOLOGIES - Holmdel, NJ August 1998 to March 1999 • Improved efficiency of all systems by 50% with system administration, CPU utilization, and work flow management.  • Configured unix/ sun machines, setup users, access control, efficient memory allocation, space allocation, recover.  • Developed queuing system for developers' requests, reducing time lag. Education Master of Science in Computer Science NYU School of Engineering Bachelors in Chemical Engineering University of Mumbai Skills acceptance testing (5 years), active directory. (5 years), Ajax (5 years), Cases (4 years), Django (6 years), Hadoop (4 years), Hive (4 years), Html (5 years), java (4 years), jquery. (5 years), Linux (6 years), Mongodb (5 years), Python (6 years), scripting (5 years), Sdlc (4 years), Sql (1 year), Testing (10+ years), user acceptance (5 years), user acceptance testing (5 years), Xml (6 years) Certifications/Licenses CCNA, PMP, OCA, SQL SERVER Present Additional Information Core Competencies  ? Agile, Waterfall, ITIL and Scrum Methodologies  ? Software Use Test Cases  ? User Acceptance Testing  ? Infrastructure  ? VM Ware  ? CDP Back Up Tools  ? Face-to-Face Client Interactions  ? ETL  ? Intrusion Detection, Firewall, DNS, NAT    ? Software Development Expert, MIFID II  ? Evault Back Up Tools  ? Windows Configuration  ? Bare Metal P to V  ? Penetration Testing  ? Cyber Security  ? DR Backup Site Setup  ? Active Directory  ? Shell Scripting, MIFID, CCAR  ? BASEL II, Stress Testing    ? Software Testing  ? FINTECH and FINCEN Regulations  ? Actimize CDD, SAM  ? Data Mapping models, rules  ? Vendor Management, SLA  ? Internal and External audits (OCC)  ? SSAE16  ? SOC2 Compliance  ? SDLC  ? Dashboard Development    PERSONAL: U.S. CITIZEN    Technical Proficiency  Hardware: Sun Solaris 8, NCR, IBM, Thinking Machine (parallel processing)  Software:  C, C*, C++, C#, Korn Shell, Bourne ShellAndroid, Awk, Perl, VisualBasic, Powerbuilder, .NET, JAVA, JavaScript, HTML, AJAX, prolog, XML, Soap, Python, Clearcase, JAVASCRIPT, JQUERY, Hadoop, Python, Hive, R, Flume, SAS Netegrity, Dreamweaver, Robohelp, Sharepoint; Cognos 10, Mongodb, Tableau, DJANGO AND FLASK FRAMEWORK, Kubernetes, PySpark, Docker.    Databases: SQL Server, Oracle 10g, R12, RAC, Informix, DB2    Operating Systems: Unix, AIX, Vista, Windows 8/10/XP/NT, VM, LINUX