Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer Seattle, WA I have years of experience running computers from running 2,000 servers  at Amazon to a single scientific application for the United States Forest  Service. I have detailed knowledge of how networks work and they fail. I  have extensive experience with python. I have some experience running  MySQL. My experience is illustrated in specific accomplishments below.    GOAL    I would like to use Python for some sort of operational, networking, or  testing task. I've used python to analyze network behavior and test  network devices. However, if a Natural Language Processing opportunity  or a scientific programming opportunity came my way, I would certainly  take it. Work Experience Python Developer American Telephone and Telegraph (AT&T) June 2019 to August 2019 Write software in python to monitor network devices and name servers. Review  documentation prior to publication. Assistant Consultant Tata Consultancy Services November 2018 to February 2019 Write tools to automate alerting on various conditions. Investigate and remediate  false alarms. Write documentation. System Engineer Amazon December 2017 to August 2018 Write tools to analyze the configurations of network devices in Amazon's AWS  network. Automate patching procedures. Resident Engineer Juniper Networks December 2016 to August 2017 Write automatic test software to accelerate testing of new operational software in Juniper switches and routers. Chief Technical Officer (CTO) Maxset LLC June 2016 to March 2017 Use Natural Language Processing (NLP) software such as nltk, textblob, and spaCy to develop a new knowledge representation system, called skyset, for simplifying  process documentation. Software Development Engineer in Test (SDET) Impinj August 2016 to September 2016 Develop test cases for the IPv6 implementation the Impinj radio frequency identity  (RFID) readers, using behave, python, wireshark, tcpdump, and pycharm. Linux and unix system Engineer Tommy Bahama January 2016 to June 2016 Managed an assortment of servers running RHEL 6.x and Solaris servers.  Automated patching processes. Built tools using python. Audit security.  Transition server monitoring from Big Brother to nagios. DevOps engineer The Walt Disney Company March 2015 to November 2015 Managed an Elasticsearch Logstash and Kibana (ELK) cluster. Wrote software in python and ruby and chef to automate various system administrator tasks.  Automated the monthly patching process using chef recipes. Participated in on- call rotation. Managed a github server, and a Sonatype nexus server. System Administrator UIEVolution December 2014 to February 2015 Reverse engineered and documented production systems. Managed development and test MySQL databases. Created a commercial. Systems Engineer Sweetlabs June 2014 to October 2014 Wrote scripts in Python. Monitored the monitors for abnormal conditions that the automated monitors didn't detect. Built and managed an OpenStack cluster.  Wrote munin plugins. Linux System Administrator Google Widevine Youtube Content Protection - Kirkland, WA June 2013 to June 2014 non standard infrastructure  Run a small linux software development lab, including hardware maintenance, operation of the network hardware (all Juniper, except for an F5 Global Traffic  Manager), run the backups, NAS, facilities, physical security. Remediated the heartbleed vulnerability. Document procedures, such as backup recovery, network  software updates, disaster recovery. Write Python and Bash scripts for linux  servers Instructor University of Washington - Seattle, WA September 2012 to May 2013 Taught python to adult learners. Fall quarter was basic syntax and usage of the language. Spring quarter was various advanced topics:subprocesses, relational  databases (MySQL and sqlite3), non-relational databases (redis), benchmarking, the pdb debugger. Developer Support Specialist Google Compute Engine - Seattle, WA April 2012 to March 2013 Customer support of Google's Compute Engine cloud computing IaaS solution.  Write and test software in python, bash, and SQL. Test in linux and MS-Windows/7. Test Engineer F5 Networks Product Development - Seattle, WA March 2011 to March 2012 Engineer performance testing on F5 products such as Local Traffic Manager (LTM) customer support F5 Networks - Seattle, WA November 2006 to March 2011 Network Support Engineer  Support F5 customers using telephone and E-mail. I specialized in the BigIP Local  Traffic Manager (LTM), Enterprise Manager (EM) devices and the Web Accelerator  Module (WAM) and Mail Security Module (MSM). Use a laboratory environment to simulate customer problems and test solutions. The lab environment contains  many services built on linux servers    For a list of presentations I have given and documentation I am writing, please refer to my portfolio page, . See my github repository. Education Certificate University of Washington June 2014 Certificate University of Washington June 2011 B.S. in Physics Harvey Mudd College Skills Git Links http://www.commercialventvac.com/JeffSilvermanResume.html https://github.com/jeffsilverm https://stackoverflow.com/users/1928764/user1928764?tab=profile https://www.linkedin.com/in/jeffreyhsilverman/ Certifications/Licenses Amazon Web Services Present University of Washington Professional Growth and Education Assessments Critical Thinking — Highly Proficient August 2019 Using logic to solve problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/iphht7fid-myuj9a Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.