Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Cisco • 4 years of experience in Design, Development, Testing and Deployment of different web, stand-alone applications using Python, Django.  • Committed to driving innovation with the ability to follow industry and technological trends.    CORE QUALIFICATIONS  • Proficient in writing Python programming language and well versed with the PEP 8 standards.  • Good experience with Python web frameworks such as Django, Flask.  • Well versed with Python libraries like SciPy, NumPy, Matplotlib, and Report Lab.  • Familiar with Django's ORM library.  • Working on Data structures like Lists, Tuples, Dictionaries, Sets, String.  • Proficient with various DBMS like MySQL, PostgreSQL, MongoDB.  • Expert in using development tools and editors such as Sublime Text, Notepad++, and PyCharm.  • Involved in Unit testing of the code using Unit Test.  • Familiar with cloud computing services like AWS (Amazon Web Services) like EC2, Storage models (EBS, S3, instance storage).  • Experience using version control system such as GIT and SVN along with Jenkins.  • Deep understanding of HTTP methods, RESTful architecture.  • Good experience in shell scripting and shell commands.  • Able to work with different operating systems like MacOS, Windows, and Linux.  • Thorough understanding of Agile methodology and Scrum environment.  • Strong understanding and working knowledge of Object-Oriented design principles.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Good Knowledge on developing Automation scripts for manual test cases.  • Experience in working both independently and under direct supervision to design Courses while constantly communicating.  • Hands-on experience in writing and reviewing requirements, architecture documents, test plans, design and maintaining documents, quality analysis and helping with the software release process.  • Ability to successfully multi-task and prioritize work. Work Experience Python Developer Cisco - Morrisville, NC October 2018 to Present At Cisco, I am working with the Database automation team to develop and provide personal based single portal for all database related needs and integrate existing tools with portal to provide support and services seamlessly.  Responsibilities  • Follow Agile development methodology to develop the application.  • Responsible for designing and developing REST web services in Python using Flask and flask-restful framework.  • Wrote Python script that analyzes Apache access logs and loads required data into Mongo DB collections.  • Convert existing PERL scripts into Python web services.  • Developed portal monitoring scripts using Multithreading and requests module in Python that send email alerts to respective tool developer.  • Write shell scripts to Automate the build and deploy process using cisco internal tool highlines.  • Developed a tool using Python that lets the DBAs store data into oracle database when a new database is provisioned, or any updates are made to the existing databases.  • Write unit test cases using Pytest so that the application could be tested in a legitimate environment.  • Work closely with other team members to plan, design and develop robust solutions in a timely manner.  • Interact with SMEs regarding the project requirements and specifications.  • Strongly follow PEP-8 coding standard and test the code to ensure validity and effectiveness using PyChecker and PyLint.  • Prepare detailed reports concerning project specifications and activities.  • Involved in the complete end-to-end CI/CD process, building and deploying the application on Apache servers using Jenkins, Deploy and Release.  Environment: Python, Flask, Flask-Restful, Oracle, Mongo DB, Jira, Jenkins, GitHub, Linux, shell scripting, JSON, Toad for Oracle, MongoDB compass. Python Developer Tenncare - Dallas, TX April 2017 to September 2018 Responsibilities  • The main objective of the project was to be build a website in python/Django framework and writing the API and Rest API.  • Creating the module with the Python scripts. Getting the Data by using the python libraries and changing it into Excel files. Doing the web scrapping and wen crawler by using the various python modules.  • Responsible for creating well-designed UI screens with Django templates using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript.  • Used Django framework in developing web applications to implement the Model view control architecture (MVC).  • Refactored and extended large existing Django/ Python code base, reducing the number of lines in code and duplication significantly.  • Wrote Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Query Optimization through MYSQL server tools for quick response time.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse JSON documents and load the data in database and used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Responsible to set up REST API frame work using Django, Flask.  • Developed, designed, managed dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, Oracle DB, PostgreSQL API calls.  • Performed some operations, visualization on Oracle DB using libraries like Ox oracle, Matplotlib, Pandas.  • Build back-end application with Python / Django, Worked on Dockers, RabbitMQ, Celery, and Jenkins.  • Created entire application using Python, Django Framework and MySQL Database.  • Developed a RESTful web services using Python and Django to retrieve and save data.  • Developed and tested features for UI dashboard using Python, HTML and JavaScript.  • Managed relational database applications with UI designing services and Django Framework.  • Worked with various team members for necessary performance upgrades to client and server software.  • Worked with other developers and project team during design and development phase to ensure built for testability.  • Worked on JIRA tools for issue tracking, reporting versions, epics, sprints etc.  • Used GitHub version control system to collaborate with team members.  • Worked on Deployment of web application using AWS server.  Environment: Django REST Framework (DRF), MongoDB, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, Atom, Postman, Python Unit test, Excel VBA, PyCharm, Django, Angular2, Express, Git, Postman Full Stack Developer CAPGEMINI - Hyderabad, Telangana July 2013 to August 2015 Description: The project is to build the self-service business term search engine for the next generation data management so that it can be used for wide variety of cross-platforms within the organization.  Roles and Responsibilities:  • Worked with Product Manager on documenting the requirements, conducted conceptual designs, details analysis and technical specification.  • Worked on Python OpenStack APIs and used NumPy for Numerical analysis.  • Used HTML, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery for dynamic functionality of a webpage for front end applications.  • Designed the front-end applications, user interactive web pages using web technologies like HTML and CSS.  • Developed non-functional HTML, CSS pages from the mock ups and involved in UI review architect and Business Units.  • Designed and created SQL Databases, tables, indexes, and views based on user requirements.  • Worked with the application Developers and provide necessary SQL Scripts using T-SQL.  • Rewrite existing Python /Django module to deliver certain format of data.  • Debug application deployments on Multiple-Environments.  • Assigned to validate all the user inputs before submitting to the back-end.  • Continuously maintained and troubleshoot the Python Django modules.  • Pyro library was used to enable the communication between the host and client machine.  • Implemented the Task Component with CRUD methods and searching and filtering methods.  • Created Stored Procedures, T-SQL statements, Functions to manipulate the databases.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, JSON, jQuery, MySQL, SQLite, Pyro, MVC, Shell scripting, Oracle Education Master's in Computer Science and Engineering in Computer Science and Engineering Oklahoma Christian University 2018 Bachelor's in Computer Science and Engineering in Computer Science and Engineering Jawaharlal Nehru technological university - Hyderabad, Telangana 2013