Director of Engineering Director of Engineering Director of Engineering Phoenix, AZ Strong technical engineering leader with over 20 years of experience in both growing and leading engineering teams within challenging software development environments. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Director of Engineering Invitation Homes - Scottsdale, AZ September 2017 to August 2019 ·      Led the engineering team including hiring, performance reviews, 1 on 1s, supervision, salary administration, mentoring managers and developers, and training.  ·      Responsible for tripling the size of the team during my tenure.  ·      Managed vendor relationship and development work of additional 3rd party vendors, up to 8 Engineers  ·      Delivered new marketing website for day 1 of merger, integrating combined properties from 2 systems into a combined company leasing site (http://lease.invitationhomes.com)  ·      Responsible for the engineering effort to merge the multi-billion-dollar companies’ systems for integrations and back-office property management functions.  ·      Managed 2 remote teams including internal developers as well as 3rd party software development   ·      Set the priorities and direction for technical enhancements; worked with Product Management as well as the business teams to document, solution and prioritize defects and enhancements.  ·      Improved team interactions between the Engineering, QA, Product and the scrum master. When I arrived these relationships were unproductive, toxic and hostile.  ·      Worked with the scrum master closely in order to improve the agile workflow to a consistent, predictable throughput/velocity. Streamlined the processes of grooming, pointing and planning.  ·      Responsible for the creation of active monitoring/alerting functions for critical business applications.  ·      Led the effort to create tooling to assist in Jira workflows for story creation, subtask creation, pointing and assigning hours to those issues.  Technologies used: React, React Native, Python, Node.js, Express, Go, .Net, Knockout, Docker, Heroku, AWS, PostgreSQL, SQL Server, ELK, Grafana, Jira, Github, Bitbucket Senior Manager, Monitoring and Automation Services Charles Schwab & Co, Inc - Phoenix, AZ March 2015 to September 2017 ·      Led an engineering team including hiring, performance reviews, daily supervision, salary administration, mentoring, and training. Responsible for doubling the size of the team during my tenure.  ·      Set priorities and technical direction for 3 team leads who directed the Sprint-level stories/tasks for the Agile teams.  ·      Led efforts to improve the processes related to building, testing and CI/CD in order to more efficiently deliver our products to our customers.  ·      Improved the agile process to increase velocity by 250% and increase delivery commitment by 200%  ·      Championed hackathon days for the software team once per quarter to allow independent developer creativity/innovation and the autonomy with which developers thrive.  ·      Achieved software team engagement improvements through championing career growth and training. Also created regular opportunities to work on Proof of concept apps using new technologies to grow and master skills in different areas of software engineering.  ·      Facilitated the creation of solutions for monitoring and deployment solutions for forward-looking cloud technologies, BMC Cloud Lifecycle Management, Azure, and AWS  ·      Designed and developed new mobile applications for internal customers.  Our applications included a chat application for the operations team, Floorplans application for the real estate team  ·      Prototyped and developed software for mobile and Web app REST-ful services and their deployment and migration to modern platforms. Used multiple frameworks to inform company-wide tech/architecture.  Technologies used: React, AngularJS 1.6/2/4.0+, Python, Flask, Node.js, Express, Swift, Objective-C, C/C++, .Net, .Net Core/WebAPI, Docker, PaaS, MongoDB, SQL Server, Jira, Bitbucket, Azure, Splunk Senior Python Developer, IT Services Automation/Architecture Team Charles Schwab & Co, Inc - Phoenix, AZ February 2014 to March 2015 ·      Developed custom IT service websites using Python/Flask, Node.js/Express and .Net providing REST-ful APIs as well calling 3rd party APIs provided from other enterprise IT tools.  ·      Developed custom python programs and plugins for Zenoss, the company monitoring solution.  ·      Created desktop automation tools for logging into servers using Python and QT saving our operations team 1000+ hours of manual operations every year.  ·      Implemented Chrome plugins for content processing and sending web links/server names to desktop applications through Remote Procedure Calls  Technologies used: Zenoss, Python, Flask, C++, Docker, PaaS, SQL Server, Jira, BitBucket, Splunk Consultant, Software Focal Lead, Software Development Lead General Dynamics - Scottsdale, AZ September 2006 to February 2014 Led a team of 17 Software Engineers for both feature and maintenance development on the MUOS User  Entry (handset). The team started as myself and 1 member, responsible for growing the team over 8 times  • Software Lead on multi-million-dollar project working with other leads, program team, development and test lead to develop requirements, budget and plan software development and test schedules.  • Budgeted, planned and setup the test lab, with over $250k+ of new test equipment. Also planned flexible  end-user setups for both lab and developer workstations.  • Implemented software on top of a commercial UMTS stack and added control and custom state logic for setting up services/connections between other 3rd party software and control software.  • Integrated 2 different commercial SIP stacks into software product, creating a new UA dialog control  function on top of the stack.  • Saved over 2500 development hours in testing by automating tests, collection & verification of results.  • On the new platform, I developed test strategy and testing tools for desktop testing of embedded software  with simulators and testing framework.  • Created an API to interact with the automated test suite to be used by other build tools to improve the continuous integration process.  • Initiated and worked on the development of a network based automated regression suite of tools for testing all builds for basic functionality. Employee - Senior Software Engineer Motorola, CDMA Call processing development and Software Support - Chandler, AZ June 1999 to September 2006 • Founding member of new team to move large portions of call processing development to Phoenix.  • Trained/Mentored all 7 other members of the team in my areas of expertise.  • Led implementation of software enhancements to improve customer satisfaction.  • Developed highly available and highly scalable software for processing calls on CDMA cellular system  • Improved system availability to 5 NINES through development of features to support redundant hardware Education Bachelors of Science in Electrical and Computer Engineering in Electrical and Computer Engineering Purdue University - West Lafayette, IN Skills Javascript (8 years), Python (10+ years), c+ (10+ years), Mentoring (10+ years), Java (5 years), Mobile (10+ years) Links http://jeff.karau.com