Sr. Software Engineer Data Science Sr. Software Engineer Data Science Sr. Software Engineer Data Science - Verato McLean, VA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Software Engineer Data Science Verato October 2018 to Present • Data ingestion automation (TransUnion) (java, fabric, apache solr)  • Data analysis tools and pipelines (mongo, python, postgresql) Data Science Engineer Verato September 2016 to October 2018 Data ingestion pipeline automation jobs (fabric python) Software Engineer Spinner Consulting, LLC February 2016 to July 2016 Project: Real-Estate Data Analytics  ? Data analytics project. Stack: Flask to serve a machine learning model as a RESTful web service, IPython + scikit-lean + numpy + pandas, mongoDB, AngularJS - nvD3 dynamic charts.    Project: Hadoop Data Transformation (in progress)  ? Java library to perform ETL on Hadoop multi node cluster.  ? I was responsible to set up virtual machines on remote private server RedHat+CentOS.  ? Configured multi node Hadoop clusters, to test created java library for performance under different conditions.  ? Used Saxon to make xml transformations    Project: Intelligence Community Marking Parser  ? Developed a xml parsing library using Java and Eclipse  ? Incorporated JUnit Data-Driven 90 tests to validate text parser output  ? Built an AngularJS front-end and Spring servlet backend for users to interact with text parsing library.  ? Project is hosted on a private GitLab instance and utilizes Git for version control  ? Utilized Jira to support Scrum Agile framework  ? Created user stories, provide point estimates, create sub-tasks and their associated hour estimates, and burn-down hours and provide updates to sub-task estimates to the scrum master on a daily basis. Python Developer Outroop.com February 2015 to November 2015 Worked with off-site team to finish minimal viable product  ? Utilized Agile methods to improve delivery schedules  ? Met with clients to discuss their needs  ? Prioritized feature development  ? Assisted the engineering team through major architecture decisions  ? Simplified development process  ? Utilized Slack, Github, Asana, DigitalOcean, and MySQL  ? Completed project and client satisfied with results. Partner Lincoln Group, LLC May 2013 to February 2015 Provider of transportation services to events like NASCAR, Houston Rodeo, NFL games and concerts Manager Suzer and Friedman, LLC May 2012 to June 2013 Bookkeeping and day to day operations manager for small business development company that invested in local businesses and small business lender. Financial Analyst Ameriprise Financial August 2008 to November 2011 * Worked for Financial Advisor, helped him to manage 350 clients' portfolios during Global Financial Crisis.  * Developed Excel applications, using formulas, pivot tables, macros to automate work flow process to calculate RMD (required minimum distribution) from client portfolios.  * Analyzed financial data, researched suitable investments.  * Prepared financial reports, projections.  * Asset allocation and portfolio rebalancing, valuation models.  * Performed financial analysis and models. Education B.S. in Information Technology Al-Farabi Kazakh National University Skills Apache solr, Solr (3 years), Hadoop (Less than 1 year), Mongodb (3 years), Redis (Less than 1 year), SQL (1 year), Javascript (3 years), Java (4 years), Python (5 years), PostgresSQL (3 years), Business Intelligence Additional Information Skills/Tools    Java, Python, JavaScript  MongoDb, DocumentDb, PostgresSQL, MySql,  Spring, Apache Solr,  AWS, aws cli, bash  Data processing. sed, awk, grep, zcat  Kubectl, Scala, Spark, Hadoop, Docker, Kubenetes, Jenkins, Redis