Data Scientist / ML Engineer and Architecture Data Scientist / ML Engineer and Architecture Data Scientist / Machine Learning and Deep Learning Engineer / Cloud Architect Edison, NJ • Over 7 plus years of experience with Deep/Machine Learning Architect, Cognitive Services, Statistics, Data Analysis using R/ Python and MS Azure Machine Learning, Google Cloud Platform and AWS.  • Over 12 plus years in Architectural Design, Development and Implementation of business applications (Web and Client/Server) and Service Oriented Applications(SOA) using .Net Framework, XML, and IIS.   • My Upwork work history includes top clients(Google) ranging from start-ups to Fortune 500. Many of the teams are distributed across continents, so I am comfortable working both locally and in international, distributed settings. Currently I am a member of Upwork Talent Enterprise Clouds in which my clients regularly access my services for innovation and to architect new and profitable solutions. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Data Scientist / ML Engineer and Architecture Upwork - Mountain View, CA February 2015 to Present • Research and Analysis of different ML Algorithms for the Google R & D Machine Learning Team.  • Deployed production ML Models using Python and Flask on Google Cloud Platform with containers as in Docker and Kubernetes using machine learning libraries like scikit-learn, Tensorflow, etc.   • Implementing ML and DL components and deploying on Kubeflow pipelines using Python. Associate Director of Data Scientist and Analytics SapientRazorfish - San Francisco, CA June 2013 to October 2018 A team member of COSMOS analytical and developmental Group(www.cosmos.ai) and assisted in designing and development of Analytical and ML models for the end clients. Coordinated with end users for designing and implementation of analytics solutions as per project proposals.  • Develop and Train Machine Learning Models using Azure ML Studio/Azure Data Factory to analyse and identify Fraudulent Transactions for Risk Analysis Team.   • Customized and developed CLTV algorithms and models for predicting Customer Churns using NBD and Gamma distribution using Python and Spark with databases like SQL Server, MongoDB and HBase. Deployment of Production Level R models to MS Azure.  • Implemented Data Stitching Models using Deterministic and Probabilistic Models for unifying Cosmos customers and created Customer Life Time Graph using Neo4J.  • Implemented Feature Engineering on Customer Transactions to find more features using Transitions and Clickstream data to find more Insights.  • Configuration and Processing of ETL Social Streaming data pipelines from Data Lake to Azure Databricks and used Cognitive API Services in Notebooks.  • Created Natural Language Processing model in R using OpenNLP, Stanford NLP, ANN to classify Citi Credit and Legal Risk Documents attitude by their contents.  • Detect and classify tumour images using deep learning algorithms (NN, ANN, CNN with backend in Keras, Tensorflow) in Python.  • Prepared graphs using GGplot library and Tableau for an overview of the analytical models and results.  • Worked on generating reports using Neo4J graph database and Classification of key words into categories using a Neo4J graph database and make a recommendation.  • Generated Ad hoc Reports using Python and Apache Spark from Large Datasets in Hadoop Clusters and created dashboards, reducing effort needed to manually review documents. Data Scientist PIMCO December 2011 to December 2012 • Developed predictive models using Vector Machines, Decision Tree, Random Forest and Naïve Bayes, and collaborating with back-office and middle office teams for production deployment with the Analytics team.  * Designed and developed a web based system in ASP.NET / Python to Show the broker Commissions,  Sales and re-conciliation reports.  • Development of Utilities//Log applications in Python with NumPy, Pandas library.  • Developed application in Python/.NET that notifies important information and changes on how  broker and voting decisions are updated.    Environment: Python, Shiny. Lead .NET/ Python Developer New York School Construction Authority, New York August 2009 to June 2011 A team member of Project Tracking System(PTS) application that manages NY School Construction projects developed using Silverlight 4.0 as client and Oracle 10g as Database.    • Used ADO.NET Entity Data Model and WCF RIA Service, web service for communication with Database using DevArt Oracle provider and used LINQ queries extensively  • Used Silverlight Infragistics Datagrid controls and Expression Blend for advanced client navigation and controls.  • Used Stimulsoft Silverlight Reporting controls for generating Adhoc silverlight reports and custom generated user reports.    Environment: VS Studio 2010, WCF RIA Services, WWF, MS Team Foundation Server, Oracle 11g, .NET 4.0, Windows 7. Senior .NET Software Engineer Bloomberg - LP October 2008 to March 2009 A team member of R&D Desktop Services .NET Development Team. Bloomberg Gateway 3.0 Software manages and helps to configure Bloomberg Terminals installed in Financial Clients with the Backend Server.    • Developed Gateway 3.0 using Bloomberg Smart Client API's, WCF, C# and .NET 3.5 libraries that helps to configure and monitor equities, shares, stocks data.  • Used IBM MQ Series API and WCF Services to communicate between Smart Client Gateway and the Backend server for Audit Logging for trading transaction at the client location.  • Developed a JavaScript editor using .NET 3.5, WinForms and Bloomberg Controls.  • Used Microsoft Enterprise Application Logging Block Libraries for Audit Logging in Gateway Project and used MS TFS primarily for Source Code Management.  • XAML scripts were constructed dynamically in JavaScript Editor and send to backend Servers for executing XAML scripts with WWF activities.    Environment: VS Studio 2008, WCF, WWF, MS Team Foundation Server, MS SharePoint, Bloomberg Controls, Oracle 11g, .NET 3.5 Windows XP. Senior .NET Software Engineer Northrop - New York, NY August 2007 to August 2008 A team member of OASIS .NET Development Team developing project for processing Claims for the New York City Government. This is a multi-tier Architecture project with Oracle 11 as the back end Database.  OASIS Claim Project also has the WebServices exposed for other Web-based applications and development includes writing several layers like Data Provider, WebServices, Controller, Factory and Framework.  • Used CruiseControl.NET Integration for Visual Source Safe for Project build, management and reporting.    Environment: VS Studio 2005, WPF, N-Unit testing framework 1.1, MS Sharepoint, Infragistics Controls, Oracle 11g, Oracle SQL Developer 1.1, .NET 3.5 Windows XP. Senior Software Engineer Verizon Wireless, New Jersey April 2006 to July 2007 A team member of IT Customer Care Dept working for the project ACSS (Automated Customer Care Support Service).ACSS Software manages Billing, Activation, Service features, Equipment Order Features for Verizon Wireless handset Customers. A 3-Tier Architecture Product developed using C# Winforms, MS VC++, MFC, ATL Come and Rogue wave Libraries, Java. Oracle 11g is used as the Database.  • Responsible for Development, Migration and Maintenance of VC++, MFC / ATL Com, COM+ and C# .NET WinForms code for ACSS project which is a 3 Tier Application. Software Engineer United Parcel Service, New Jersey June 2002 to April 2006 June 2002- April 2006)    ? A team member of the OPSV(Operation Portfolio System Verification) group in the AMS/FDC(Address Management Group and Flexible Data Capture) project which validates, verifies the addresses on the packages that the customers send it for delivery and it also serves for excellent facility for searching addresses in the United States.  Role: Software Engineer Education M.S Computer Science in Computer Networks Monmouth University 2004 to 2006 Bachelor of Engineering in Electronics and Communication M.K University Skills .NET (10+ years), Apache (4 years), machine learning (5 years), Python. (5 years), SQL (10+ years), R (5 years), Azure Databricks (2 years), Keras (3 years), Azure ML Studio (3 years), Hadoop (2 years), Python, Big Data, NLP (3 years), Spark (2 years), Data Science (7 years), Java (2 years), Kubernetes (2 years), Neo4J (2 years), Docker (2 years) Links https://www.upwork.com/fl/shankarmohanakrishnan https://www.linkedin.com/in/shankarmohan2/ https://github.com/shankarpm Additional Information Technical Skills:  Languages R, Apache Spark, C#, Java, PL/SQL, Matlab. VC++,  Scripting Python, Unix Shell Scripting, Perl.  Development Tools RStudio, Tableau, Visual Studio.NET 2015, Eclipse.  Data Science/Big data Statistical Analysis, Machine Learning, Data Mining, MS Azure Machine Learning, Ggplot2, Tableau, Hadoop 2.x, HDFS  NoSql Hbase, MongoDB, Neo4J    Operating Systems Windows 10.0, UNIX with Sun Solaris 8.0, HP-Unix.  Databases MongoDB, MySQL, MS SQL Server 2008, Oracle 11g, Sybase,  Web Technologies AJAX, ASP.NET, Java Script, (IIS) 7.0.  Others NumPy, SciPy, Pandas, .NET 4.5, WPF, WCF, XAML, LINQ, SSRS