Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer Westminster, CA • More than 6 years of software industry experience, with strong analytical skills and a broad range of computer expertise.  • Experience in Python, Django, MVC Patterns, Java, Oracle, MySQL and Embedded SQL.    • Experience of software development with Python and various libraries of Python, python-twitter, Pandas, Dataframe, MySQLdb for database connectivity), Regular expression, File IO etc.  • Experienced in Design, Development and support of Data warehousing solutions for Extraction, Transformation and Loading (ETL) mechanism using Datastage and Talend.  • Hands on experience in working with the Cassandra Query Language (CQL) for querying the data present in the Cassandra  • Worked with various Python packages using pip install- sphinx, reportlab, xlwt, xlrd, virtualenv, lxml, etc.    • Have very good experience in developing Test Frameworks, and experience on working with Django framework.  • Strong exposure in writing simple and complex SQL queries and creating PL/SQL Functions, Stored Procedures.  • Experienced in re-designing PL/SQL procedures and fine tune queries to improve performance    • Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache.    • Expertise in handling web applications - UI (experience), security, logging, backend services.    • Strong experience in developing UI applications using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery and Bootstrap    • Good experience on using Mercurial, Git (GERITT review) and CVS for configuration management.    • Experience in development methodologies like Agile Scrum and Waterfall.    • Excellent experience with Python development under Linux OS (Debian/RedHat/AIX)    • Experience with Linux command and bash shell scripting.    • Experience with Web Services (RESTful and SOAP) and Amazon AWS    • Experience with Selenium automation with Python.    • Determined optimal business logic implementations, applying best design patterns.    • Self-motivated and proactive leader with technical and exemplary communication skills.    • Results-driven, "can-do" attitude, proven problem solving and troubleshooting skills.    • Excellent written and verbal communication of complex ideas in simple terms.    • Able to deliver project under stringent timelines and high pressure.    • Willing to relocate: Anywhere    Authorized to work in the US for any employer Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Citco Fund Services - Charlotte, NC 2015 to December 2015 Responsibilities:  • Worked with various phases of the project like analysis, design, development, and testing.    • Good comprehend of Business requirement document (BRD) and creation of Low level design document (LLD).  • Testing and adapting the new applications for voluminous data.    • Project was managed by Chef Release engineering team.    • Deployed web applications on LINUX Environment by using Django Application Server.    • Dealt on Database Objects, Tables and views.    • Developing API's for new clients and creating new business logics accordingly for both scheduled and immediate transfers.  • Constructed UTP, UTC for each module change and involved in System Integration testing (SIT).    • Worked on Python Modules and Packages and Created project designs utilizing MVC architecture components.  • Produced, extensive Unit test cases and release tracker for every release.    • Developed Webpages using CSS, HTML and JavaScript's.    • Created a uniform look in the application by using style sheets.    • Resource providers to support automation through Jenkins.    • Extensive coding using several Python Modules and controls to rapidly build application.    • Used Python Data structures like sqlite3, lists, dictionaries, and tuples.    • Experienced in working with complicated List comprehensions and various built-in functions like map, filter etc.  • Used subversion for version controlling and eclipse for debugging the application    • Resolved performance related issues using efficient coding.    • Query Optimization through SQL server tools for quick response time    • Provide support during developing phase by coordinating with production field.    • Worked with various bugs fixing issues.    Environment: Python, Django, SQL, Linux, Chef, Jenkins, HTML, JavaScript, CSS, SIT, MVC pattern. Python Developer Consumers Energy, MI July 2011 to April 2013 Responsibilities:  • Detailed and continuous analysis of the data warehousing application to enhance performance.    • Involved in Design and Development of PL/SQL Packages and Stored Procedures for various business requirements involving data loading and reporting.  • Maintenance and continues development of the applications in PL/SQL procedures, ETL modules and shell scripting using best practices.  • Find creative solutions to design problems when existing solutions do not suffice and analyze existing software design and detect shortcomings, suggest and implement alternatives.  • Supporting the data warehousing application to make sure the jobs are run as scheduled and the SLAs are met.  • Created Shell Scripts for invoking SQL scripts and scheduled them using Crontab.    • Responsible for writing high quality and well documented code according to standards and documentation of various processes  • Providing reports for Business users for sales forecasting and planning.    • Maintaining the application for daily operations and scaling according to Business requirements.    • Migration of the existing application on Oracle 10g to Oracle 12c.    Environment: PL/SQL, Datastage 11.3, Workload Automation 11.1, Oracle 12c, Service now, Micro strategy, Clarity, JIRA, confluence, Talend, oozie scheduler, TOAD and Quality center. Java Developer Info Park Software Pvt. Ltd July 2010 to June 2011 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for analyzing business requirements and translate them into technical requirements.    • Involved in designing, development of the dynamic content of the product using JSP and Servlets.    • Developed Web Applications using Java/J2EE, JSF on JVM.    • Designed and developed JSP Custom Tags based on Struts Framework.    • Designed and developed the Application based on Model-View-Controller architecture    • Used Struts as the UI framework and implemented various design patterns    • Write code for Struts, Hibernate Code & make Configuration for Struts, Hibernate.    • Distributing developing/maintains work with team member help to team member in Tech.    • Completion of development and integration    • Developed frontend using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Angular JS, Backbone JS and DHTML.    • Using e-commerce integrated with spring.    • Exhaustive testing in the development environment and catches up as many bugs as possible during local testing rather than letting the bugs getting migrated into production environment.  Environment: Oracle, Java/J2EE, Struts, Hibernate, HTML, JSP and JavaScript, Eclipse, VSS, Clear case,Linux/Unix Education Bachelor's Skills Datastage (1 year), Oracle (2 years), PL/SQL (1 year), Python (1 year), SQL (1 year) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Languages Python, Java, C, C++, Embedded SQL Frameworks Django, AngularJS, Hibernate, Sqlalchemy Orm. Scripting HTML, CSS, Java Script, J-Query, Angular JS  Databases MS SQL Server [ ] MS-Access, Cassandra, MY SQL, Oracle, SQLite, PL/SQL, Operating Systems Linux, Windows [ ] Windows Server 2003    Version Controls Team Foundation Server (TFS), Subversion, Clear Case, GIT Protocols TCP/IP, HTTP, FTP    SDLC Waterfall, RAD, Agile, Scrum    Packages MS Office (Word, Excel and PowerPoint), MS outlook, Lotus Notes.    User Interface HTML, HTML5, DHTML, CSS, XML, DOM, XAML, IIS, JSON, AJAX, SOAP, Restful,    WSDL, Web Services, Angular JS    Tools & IDE PowerShell, Jenkins (build process), Eclipse Pydev, Wing 3.1, Django South, Fabric Deployment tool, Pytest, Selenium, SoapUI, Chef, Jenkins, PyCharm, Sublime, Eclipse, NetBeans  Others GIT, PIP, PEP8, AWS, Celery, Redis, RESTful Web Services, Heroku, OpenCV, Django-Debug-Toolbar, Datastage, CA workload automation, Service now, Microstartegy, Quality Center.    SKILLS    CSS (4 years), HTML (4 years), JAVASCRIPT (4 years), LINUX (4 years), MODEL-VIEW-CONTROLLER (4 years), C++, C (4 years), Django (2 years), Hibernate (3 years), SQLAlchemy (2 years)    TECHNICAL SUMMARY    • More than 5 years of software industry experience, with strong analytical skills and a broad range of computer expertise.  • Able to deliver project under stringent timelines and high pressure.