SENIOR FULL STACK DEVELOPER LEVEL 2 SENIOR FULL STACK <span class="hl">DEVELOPER</span> LEVEL 2 SENIOR FULL STACK DEVELOPER Los Angeles, CA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience SENIOR FULL STACK DEVELOPER LEVEL 2 PROSEARCH - Los Angeles, CA April 2018 to June 2019 A SaaS company that is an industry leader in e-discovery software. Their platform is used by large law firms, financial institutions, and accounting firms across the world.  Responsible for the following projects:  • Yappy Project: Yappy is a tool which parses Compliance exports into individual records allowing ESI processors the ability to review this information in a meaningful way. Regulatory standards for employee communications means that all messages, shared content, attachments, and other pertinent data must be kept in a manner that allows for it to be recalled at any time, and quickly. To address these issues, many work stream collaboration tools create compliance exports for their clients. These exports permit a Workspace Owner to export content from public and private channels, direct and group messages as needed and permitted by law.  • Wolfpack Project: Wolfpack is a software product that trains document reviewers, by giving real time feedback on their coding decisions against a set of expert reviewed documents. This allows review team leads to assess the accuracy and training needs of each individual document reviewer. Wolfpack Trainer provides insight into difficult or unclear concepts through disagreement rates and "objection" comments logged by reviewers on individual documents.  • Environment: Angular 6 with MVC, .Net Core, Type Script, PrimeNG (UI library for Angular), Relativity Dynamic Objects (RDO), VSTS, GitHub, HTML, CSS, Microsoft SQL Server V17. 6, LINQ, bootstrap, API, Elastic Search, RESTful API, JSON, C# SENIOR .NET DEVELOPER US HEALTHWORKS - Valencia, CA August 2016 to April 2018 This company is one of the largest providers of occupational health, physical therapy and rehabilitation, medical review, and worksite occupational medicine services in the US. It also operates specialty care and urgent care clinics.  • Designed and implemented EMR systems for clinics with MVC4 and Angular 4.  • Designed and implemented an Android application for Tablet so the urgent care can be able to check the patient information with all examinations. Also, the doctor can modify tests and examinations. If all information is correct, then provider should sign the documents and close the encounter. This application was designed by Xamarin cross platform.  • Designed a Web Application EMR system that is being used by 120 clinics with MVC4  • Developed applications using MVC that allowed access to patient's information, scheduling appointments, tracking of all referrals, test selection, and lab results.  • Designed an Android Tablet App in Xamarin cross platform.  • Most recently using Angular 4 to develop Web EMR system.  • Environment: MVC4, HTML, jQuery, JavaScript, Angular 4, CSS, .Net Core, Microsoft SQL Server 2014, Entity Framework (EDMX). LINQ, bootstrap, Kendo, Database Design, Multilayer Programming, Ajax, Xamarin, Web API, JavaScript promise, C# NET DEVELOPER MARCH VISION CARE - Los Angeles, CA April 2014 to August 2016 This company offers top tier benefits, excellent services, and a vast choice of providers through our hybrid-network of eye care professionals and partner with their providers to facilitate impeccable patient care.  • Developed a web application called EyeSynergy (www.eyesynergy.com). Online web portal gives you access to eligibility, benefit, claim and lab order information. Worked on confirmation, survey and survey configuration pages with MVC 4.  • Developed a content management system, Metadata (stored in a central repository) can be assigned to provide additional information about each entry and allow for dynamic searching. Responsible for customizing the page via jQuery and JavaScript and CSS  • Enhanced, edited, and validated processes to the provider module that streamlined and reduced the number of data entry errors using SQL, CSS and jQuery  • Worked on EyeSynergy's web application (www.eyesynergy.com) using JavaScript, CSS and Microsoft SQL Server 2012.and MVC  • Developed confirmation, survey and survey configuration pages with MVC 4 that was used by 3million end users.  • Revised additional information about each entry to allow dynamic searching in jQuery and JavaScript and CSS. This project was designed with MVC technology and database is Microsoft SQL Server.  • Designed a web application and with 4 layers Web UI, Data Contract, Web Service and Data access layer (EF EDMX).  • Developed a new project called Survey. This web application was designed based on 4 layers: Web UI, Data Contract, Web Service and Data access layer (EF code first). This project was designed with MVC technology and database is Microsoft SQL Server.  • Environment: MVC4, .Net Core, HTML, jQuery, JavaScript, CSS and Microsoft SQL Server 2012.Aspx, C#, DBContext, WCF, Linq, bootstrap, ADO.Net, Entity Framework NET DEVELOPER AMAHA SUPER SLIM DIET September 2013 to January 2014 Designed and implemented a website for Dr. Sophia S. Kangarlu as a nutritionist. This website helps people who are dieting. There are various programs that help people to lose about 10 pounds in 2 weeks in average weight and 15 -20 in 2 weeks. There is a control panel that allows the nutritionist to be able to change or modify all information. This website was designed with MVC4, based on 3 layers and a Repository pattern.  • Used jQuery for handling AJAX Call and JSON as a response.  • Used CSS, HTML for achieving uniformity through all the Web pages.  • Written LINQ enabled queries to access the data from Microsoft SQL Server database.  • Used a repository to separate the logic that retrieves the data and maps it to the entity model from the business logic that acts on the model.  • Used partial view for rendering inside multiple view.  • Created custom validation method that is used to validate a property or class instance.  • Environment: MVC4, Entity Framework, C#, .Net Core, HTML, jQuery, CSS and Microsoft SQL Server 2008 PYTHON DEVELOPER INFOSTREET CO - Tarzana, CA April 2011 to October 2013 As a member of a team of four programmers, responsible to maintain and enhance commercial web packages like SkyAppMarket(TM) and CRM.  • Designed and developed different modules for SkyDesktop(TM) package (Address Book, Page Blender, Domain Registration, and Single Sign On using OpenID technology).  • Developed third party apps via API and used JSON and SOAP.  • For example; some API calls are protected by shared credentials (app_name and api_key) that are appended to the payload data as additional (or only) parameters. If a call has parameters, they are passed in a GET and POST section.  • When account is created via API then we need to create an authentication URL for a user. Upon success it will return a URL which can be used to redirect the user to for an immediate login and sometime the redirect URL only works once and when expired should be created again.  • Environment: Python, MySQL, jQuery, JavaScript, CSS, Ajax, XSL, XML, and HTML Senior .Net Developer SONY - TEHRAN, IR February 2008 to June 2010 oversaw a team of five programmers to develop and maintain integrated applications for wholesale and retail sales, product import and marketing and inventory management.  • There is an infrastructure layer that is responsibility of getting requests and find out what to do. This layer has a reference from the core layer.  • The core layer is an independent layer that interfaces base classes and are implemented.  • Integrated System was designed regarding company workflow for different departments.  • There is a standard Customs Declaration and Dispatch Note with a list of the products that should be imported into the inventory system while unloading the products. Inventory System can specify specific locations for different products in storage.  • Environment: ASP.NET 2008-2010, .Net Core Microsoft SQL Server 2008, Ajax, JavaScript, jQuery, Crystal Reports. ADO.Net. WCF, C#, .Net Core Education BS in Computer Software Engineering in Computer Software Engineering Azad University - Tehran, IR 2000 Skills .net (6 years), Css (6 years), Html (5 years), Javascript (6 years), jquery (6 years), NET (6 years), C#, Angular (4 years) Additional Information KEY TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Angular 6, .NET/Web Development, .Net Core, C#, LINQ, ASP.NET, Ajax, XML, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, XSLT, jQuery, Python, Entity framework, ADO.NET, MVC, WCF, Web API, bootstrap, Xamarin, Kendo UI, JavaScript promise, T-SQL, Database Design, OOP, Type Script, Version One (formidable Agile management solution), Relativity Dynamic Objects (RDO), VSTS, GitHub, Elastic Search., RESTful API, JSON