MS VBA/SQL Developer for Audit Process Automation Applications MS VBA/SQL <span class="hl">Developer</span> for Audit Process Automation Applications MS VBA/SQL Developer for Audit Process Automation Applications - Blue Cross Blue Shield Association Chicago, IL WHAT SETS ME APART FROM OTHER CANDIDATES  I’m an expert-level MS VBA/Access/SQL Developer/Reporting Analyst (and former practicing corporate/securities attorney/CPA). I've designed, written and been selling and supporting, since 1990, Excel, Access, Word and PowerPoint VBA-based financial and regulatory compliance software applications for accounting, financial and legal professionals. My broad professional experience also includes substantial knowledge of the financial markets.    My greatest business analysis/programming strength is analyzing spreadsheet and document preparation processes. I pay great attention to detail, setting high standards for myself in designing and developing software applications that provide the highest possible utility and benefit to the professionals for whom they're designed. Having been both a practicing attorney and software programmer, I bring a unique perspective to the professional desktop applications development process in that I bridge the gap between professionals and programmers that often hinders the design and development of such applications. Finally, I thoroughly enjoy the problem-solving aspect of software development and, for that reason, bring a lot more enthusiasm to my work than many other programmers.    I've organized my hundreds of distinct VBA code procedures and SQL query strings for use in all MS applications versions. Such a well-organized collection of pre-written and pre-commented VBA procedures and tools and SQL queries dramatically reduces the time required to complete nearly any desired application. Also, having been an attorney before I was a software developer, my appreciation of the importance of work documentation sets me apart from other developers in the degree to which my code is commented for ease of understanding both by me and any successor developers. This obviously makes my value as a programmer/consultant significantly greater than that of other comparable candidates.    I’ve developed numerous VBA procedures to create, import large data files into, update and otherwise manage back-end SQL Server databases. Using relatively simple VBA procedures, I’ve designed all these critical processes into a front-end MS Access file so that database, query and reporting novices can perform complex SQL Server database updating and reporting processes, including adding stored procedures, without knowing much, if anything, about SQL Server itself. Work Experience MS VBA/SQL Developer for Audit Process Automation Applications Blue Cross Blue Shield Association - Washington, DC April 2019 to Present Full-Time Salaried)    • Using Excel and Access VBA, as well as SQL Server, develop numerous audit processing tools, which will enable audit consultants to dramatically improve the efficiency and accuracy of the program assurance audit processes they're performing. MS VBA/SQL Developer for Manufacturing Process Specs Application ICE Process Management, LLC - Ormond Beach, FL February 2019 to Present Part-Time Contract)    • Using Excel VBA, developed manufacturing specs application that enables users to enter process specifications in Excel and output those specs to a completed Word document. MS VBA/SQL Developer for Work Order Applications Glenn Rieder, Inc - West Allis, WI February 2017 to Present Part-Time Contract)    • Using Excel VBA and SQL ADO, updated and enhanced work order management and various other reporting tools. MS VBA/XML Developer for PowerPoint Custom Toolbar Applications Ovis Creative - New York, NY April 2018 to July 2019 Part-Time Contract)    • Using PowerPoint VBA and the Custom UI Editor, debugged, updated and enhanced custom ribbon toolbar applications for the development of financial and investment slide show presentations by Ovis' financial clients. MS VBA/SQL Developer for Data Cleansing Application AMLI Residential - Chicago, IL September 2016 to May 2019 Part-Time Contract)    • Designed data cleansing application in Excel that imports data from various vendor files, cleanses/normalizes the data and then outputs it as text files for import into the client's Oracle database. MS VBA/SQL Developer and Data Modeler Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated - Chicago, IL September 2018 to April 2019 Full-Time Contract)    • Develop, maintain and support complex real estate appraisal data models in Excel and Word using formulas, VBA and SQL. MS VBA/SQL/Access Developer for Empl. Data Series Applications IL Dept. of Employment Security - Chicago, IL November 2017 to April 2019 Full/Part-Time Contract)    • Using Excel and Access VBA, updated and enhanced employment time series data management and analysis process for employment projections. Migrated Access data tables to SQL Server back-end database. Also updated, enhanced and developed other employment data analysis applications. MS VBA/SQL Developer for Rebate Accounting Applications Essendant - Deerfield, IL August 2016 to June 2018 Part-Time Contract)    • Using Excel VBA, updated and enhanced customer rebates Excel applications. MS VBA/SQL Developer for Reporting Applications Astellas Pharma US, Inc - Northbrook, IL September 2015 to June 2018 Part-Time Contract)    • Designed contract resource management and various other reporting tools, including an organizational chart creation tool. Maintained and enhanced Access medical database. MS VBA/SQL Developer for Reporting Applications Northern Trust Asset Management - Chicago, IL July 2014 to September 2017 Part-Time Contract)    • Designed automated Client Solutions Excel-PowerPoint tool to prepare monthly PowerPoint presentations. Designed Bloomberg data feed charting tool that enables users to create multiple charts, each with multiple data series overlays. Also designed other Excel-based reporting automation tools. MS VBA/SQL Developer Appraisal Research Counselors - Chicago, IL June 2012 to August 2017 Part-Time Contract)    • Maintained and enhanced existing commercial appraisers' Access database and reporting system for client. MS VBA/SQL Python Reports Developer Western Asset Management - Pasadena, CA November 2016 to July 2017 Full-Time Contract)    • Designed automated reporting tools querying client's Oracle database and other data sources utilizing VBA, SQL, PL/SQL, SQLDbx and Python. MS VBA/SQL Developer Allstate Insurance - Northbrook, IL September 2016 to October 2016 Part-Time Contract)    • Designed applicant and activities tracking and management database tool in Excel that automates the data entry and analysis process for new Uber-like roadside assistance program. MS VBA/SQL Developer for Reporting Applications FitchRatings - Chicago, IL September 2015 to April 2016 Part-Time Contract)    • Designed data management and various other reporting tools. MS VBA/SQL Developer McDonalds - Oak Brook, IL July 2014 to May 2015 Full-Time Contract)    • Maintained and enhanced various Excel reporting tools. Redesigned a 15-year old Excel VBA application that previously took 7-8 hours to run on a server so that it now runs in under 2½ hours. Achieved similar time savings by redesigning related Excel VBA applications. Redesigned 8 archaic applications into a consolidated reporting tool utilizing the highest level of "Best Practices" development techniques. MS VBA/SQL Developer for Commercial Planning Analysis Apps MillerCoors - Chicago, IL May 2010 to April 2015 Full/Part-Time Contract)    • Designed Excel Gross Income Planning and related Access database tools for client's annual planning analysis process.    • Redesigned/enhanced (1) Price Promotions Calendar tool that imports SharePoint data and (2) a complex forecasting model.    • Redesigned/enhanced multiple Excel/VBA applications for performing sophisticated commercial planning/market investment analysis for consumer goods company.    • Designed a sales promotions data collection and aggregation tool.    • Designed Excel/Access VBA/SQL product distribution/assortment management tool.    • Designed Excel VBA/SQL product swap decision-making tool. MS VBA/SQL Developer Wheels, Inc - Des Plaines, IL June 2014 to October 2014 Part-Time Contract)    • Completed and enhanced existing auto leasing database and reporting apps for client. SQL Developer MS VBA - Chicago, IL February 2014 to September 2014 Full/Part-Time Contract)    • Designed automated kiosk service execution reporting tool. Designed Fedex/UPS package tracking tool that extracts tracking data from Fedex/UPS tracking web sites. Developed numerous other retailing service, inventory and customer data analysis and reporting tools. SQL Developer for Various Accounting Applications MS VBA - Chicago, IL April 2011 to February 2014 Full/Part-Time Contract)    • Redesigned/enhanced Excel VBA/SQL applications for leading railcar company for accounting for (1) month-end cost accounting reporting, (2) invoice tracking, (3) invoice payment management and (4) receivables aging. SQL Developer for Inv. Mgmt. Business Applications MS VBA - Chicago, IL September 2011 to December 2013 Full-Time Contract)    • Designed sophisticated tax lot and many other reconciliation tools to automate the tedious task of back and middle office investment account reconciliation work. Designed tools to import data contained in PDF files to Excel worksheets and format the results to look identical to the source PDF files. Designed complex Lotus Notes database reader to organize and automate any user's massive daily incoming email set. Designed complex client issues management dashboard tool. Designed complex Excel VBA database program interface for importing key daily financial transaction data from various file formats and then uploading this data to client's IBM Reflections/Fundmaster DB. Designed additional Excel/VBA/SQL reporting tools. SQL Developer for Loan Review Reporting Application MS VBA - Chicago, IL August 2013 to November 2013 Part-Time Contract)    • Developed a loan review reporting tool for managing the loan review process for a small Chicago bank. Also developed various other document management tools. SQL Developer for Database Mgmt. & Reporting Application MS VBA - Skokie, IL August 2011 to October 2013 Full/Part-Time Contract)    • Developed a database management and reporting tool for managing the progress of new product label design work. Developed additional tools as needed to assist in this project management task. Software Designer/ Developer/Sole Proprietor LegalDoc Software Corporation - Chicago, IL January 1990 to October 2012 • Designed, wrote, marketed, sold and continuously supported and maintained The Blue Sky Filer. This software automated the state and federal compliance process for securities offerings. The program operated on a platform designed to handle the document assembly requirements for all areas of a legal and/or regulatory compliance practice. It utilized the most advanced features of Microsoft Excel, Word and VBA to create strikingly fast, extremely user-friendly document assembly software applications with minimum programming time and effort.    • The Blue Sky Filer has had over 250 clients since its inception in 1990, providing automated legal document preparation for some of the largest law firms in the country, as well as a number of small mutual fund companies, investment advisors, real estate developers, oil & gas developers and commodity pool operators.    • Developed and wrote The Automated Corporate Minute Book, which generated all of the organizational documents necessary for Delaware, Illinois and Iowa corporations. This software automated the process of preparing all commonly used state forms, as well as all forms of corporate minutes. SQL Developer for Management Planning Application MS VBA - Milwaukee, WI August 2011 to December 2011 Part-Time Contract)    • Designed a VBA programming tool for management goals planning, data collection and aggregation. SQL Developer for Rebate Accounting Applications MS VBA - Deerfield, IL August 2010 to September 2011 Full/Part-Time Contract)    • Designed Excel/Access VBA/SQL applications for Fortune 500 business products company for accounting for (1) vendor allowances, (2) sales force commissions, (3) customer rebates and (4) product rebates. SQL Developer for Economic Damages Analysis Application MS VBA - Chicago, IL February 2010 to April 2010 Part-Time Contract)    • Designed Excel/VBA application for performing sophisticated economic analysis for injured/deceased loss projections. Project Mgr./Programmer for Custom MS VBA - Chicago, IL October 2009 to February 2010 MS VBA Financial Applications  Titus, Chicago, IL (Full-Time Contract)    • Performed analysis and designed Excel/VBA applications to automate complex financial reporting requirements, including applications handling (1) an Intercompany Service Cost Sharing Model, (2) APB 11 Calculations and (3) Tax Reconciliations. Project Manager for Testing, Training and Implementation of Major Wheels, Inc - Des Plaines, IL June 2007 to April 2008 Full-Time Contract)    • Performed systems analysis and designed Excel-based applications to automate numerous financial reporting requirements. Also, performed comprehensive review of all existing database reporting tools to identify, document and streamline the future use of such tools.    • Serving as Project Manager for the Finance Department, worked with the controller and accounting, IT and QA staff to manage the very successful implementation of a major upgrade of the existing accounting software used by the client company. Tasks included:    • Developing work plans, test cases and schedules for testing, training and implementing the new accounting software;    • Working with users and stakeholders to document business requirements and create a timeline and implementation cycle;    • Planning, organizing and leading weekly project status meetings; and    • Organizing training materials and scheduling training sessions taught by the vendor software company's representative. Business Analyst/Project Manager for Design and Development Harris Bank/Bank of Montreal - Chicago, IL October 2006 to February 2007 Full-Time Contract)    • Working with one expert-level Access developer, responsible for the design, development, testing and delivery of a database program to automate accounting processes for parent-subsidiary accounting. Served as liaison between end-user financial analysts and primary database programmer. The primary program for this contract imports complex annual and monthly accounting data from Excel spreadsheets, validates and stores the data in an Access database, and generates monthly and other periodic reports for the subsidiary accounting department.    • Also personally designed, developed and wrote all the code for three additional Excel/VBA-based programs that automate the forecasting process for multiple bank division accounting departments. Attorney, Corporate and Securities Law Much Shelist Freed Denenberg Ament & Eiger, P.C - Chicago, IL 1988 to 1990 Attorney Corporate and Securities Law 1985 to 1990 Attorney, Corporate and Securities Law Gottlieb and Schwartz - Chicago, IL 1987 to 1988 Attorney, Corporate and Securities Law Chamberlain, Hrdlicka, White, Johnson & Williams - Houston, TX 1985 to 1987 • Represented various startup companies in raising capital through the sale of securities. Issuers included real estate, oil & gas and commodity pool companies.    • Drafted numerous agreements and other documents in connection with a wide variety of general corporate transactions. Attorney, Tax Law Touche Ross & Company - Dallas, TX 1984 to 1985 Researched tax law issues and processed annual tax returns. Education J.D. University of Texas School of Law 1984 B.B.A. in Accounting University of Iowa 1981 Skills T-SQL Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information • Expert in Excel, Access, Word, Outlook, PowerPoint, Lotus Notes and Reflections-Fundmaster MS Visual Basic for Applications (VBA) and writing Structured Query Language (SQL) data extraction procedures in VBA using ActiveX Data Objects (ADO). Intermediate skills working with SQL Server Management Studio, Tableau, PL/SQL, SQLDbx, Python and HTML.    • Experienced in utilizing the most advanced features of MS VBA to automate, among other things: (1) worksheet/document design and data entry, (2) data analysis and manipulation, (3) data import and export, (4) complex database queries, (5) cross-application processes, (6) error handling and (7) document security. Click on my site link above for greater detail.    • Skilled software developer with extensive experience providing creative software solutions for legal, accounting, finance, wealth management and marketing professionals.    • Experienced software development and implementation Project Manager.    • Former practicing corporate/securities attorney and CPA with substantial knowledge of securities and corporate law, accounting concepts and the financial markets.    • Strong analytical, organizational, written and verbal skills.    WHAT SETS ME APART FROM OTHER CANDIDATES  I'm an expert-level MS VBA/Access/SQL Developer/Reporting Analyst (and former practicing corporate/securities attorney/CPA). I've designed, written and been selling and supporting, since 1990, Excel, Access, Word and PowerPoint VBA-based financial and regulatory compliance software applications for accounting, financial and legal professionals. My broad professional experience also includes substantial knowledge of the financial markets.    My greatest business analysis/programming strength is analyzing spreadsheet and document preparation processes. I pay great attention to detail, setting high standards for myself in designing and developing software applications that provide the highest possible utility and benefit to the professionals for whom they're designed. Having been both a practicing attorney and software programmer, I bring a unique perspective to the professional desktop applications development process in that I bridge the gap between professionals and programmers that often hinders the design and development of such applications. Finally, I thoroughly enjoy the problem-solving aspect of software development and, for that reason, bring a lot more enthusiasm to my work than many other programmers.    I've organized my hundreds of distinct VBA code procedures and SQL query strings for use in all MS applications versions. Such a well-organized collection of pre-written and pre-commented VBA procedures and tools and SQL queries dramatically reduces the time required to complete nearly any desired application. Also, having been an attorney before I was a software developer, my appreciation of the importance of work documentation sets me apart from other developers in the degree to which my code is commented for ease of understanding both by me and any successor developers. This obviously makes my value as a programmer/consultant significantly greater than that of other comparable candidates.    I've developed numerous VBA procedures to create, import large data files into, update and otherwise manage back-end SQL Server databases. Using relatively simple VBA procedures, I've designed all these critical processes into a front-end MS Access file so that database, query and reporting novices can perform complex SQL Server database updating and reporting processes, including adding stored procedures, without knowing much, if anything, about SQL Server itself.