Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - JPMorgan Chase Orange Park, FL • 9+ years of experience as a Python Developer in IT Industry with proficiency in Design & Development of Python, Django, Flask projects.  • Good experience of software development in Python (libraries used: libraries- Beautiful Soup, numpy, scipy, matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas data frame, network, urllib2, MySQL DB for database connectivity) and IDEs - sublime text, Spyder, pycharm, emacs.  • Experience with Web Development, Web Services, Python and the Django framework.  • Good experience in developing web applications implementing Model View Control architecture using Django web application frameworks.  • Experience in integrating python with proprietary language known as EasyLanguage.  • Proficient in Front end development experience using HTML, XML, CSS, and JSON  • Expertise in Object-Oriented design and coding. Good knowledge of various Design Patterns and UML.  • Experience with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins.  • Designed and implemented large scale business critical systems.  • Experience in developing web-based applications using Python 3.4/2.7, Django 1.9/1.7  • Developed web applications and RESTful web services and APIs using Python Flask and Django  • Good knowledge of web services with protocols SOAP, REST.  • Good knowledge of server Apache Tomcat, Web logic.  • Familiar with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services.  • Experienced in working with various Python IDE's using PyCharm, PyScripter, Spyder, PyStudio and PyDev.  • Write MATLAB code to create discretized computer models of sloped levy geometries.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, PHP, C++, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript.  • Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Leveraging queueing architectures with Rabbit MQ for scalability, performance and building.  • Experienced in agile and waterfall methodologies with high quality deliverables delivered on-time.  • Experience with Unit testing/ Test driven Development (TDD), Load Testing.  • Have the ability to understand complex systems and be in command of the details to provide solutions.  • Excellent analytical and problem-solving skills and ability to work on own besides being a valuable and contributing team player. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Python Developer JPMorgan Chase - Houston, TX April 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Responsible for setting up Python REST API framework using Django.  • Automate the process of creating the Devices, Device Groups, target Applications, target Accounts and access policies for the amazon EC2 Linux and Windows Boxes that are accessed through PAM -Privileged Access Management  • Develop Python programs to access the PAM API's  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Developed web applications in Django Framework model view control (MVC) architecture.  • Used Python to write data into JSON files for testing Django Websites. Created scripts for data modelling and data import and export.  • Thorough knowledge in various front-end tools like HTML, CSS, JavaScript, XML, JQuery, Angularjs, and AJAX. Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  • Used object-relational mapper (ORM) to automate the transfer of data stored in relational databases tables into objects.  • Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) for improved efficiency of storage and fast access.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Create Lambda Functions in Python to trigger responses from S3 Buckets to the AWS Cloud Watch Events.  • Developed multi-threaded standalone app in Python and PHP to view performance.  • Automate the process of creating the Devices, Device Groups, target Applications, target Accounts and access policies for the amazon EC2 Linux and Windows Boxes that are accessed through PAM -Privileged Access Management.  • Performed data extraction and manipulation over large relational datasets using SQL, Python, and other analytical tools.  • Used Python libraries and SQL queries/sub queries to create several datasets which produced statistics, tables, figures, charts and graphs.  • Working in team of Architects and developers to build and deploy Python Flask Peewee, Linux, AWS Version control using GITHub.  • Involved in writing stored procedures using MySQL.  • Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Created Business Logic using Python to create Planning and Tracking functions.    Environment: Python 3.3, Django 1.6, HTML5, CSS, XML, MySQL, JavaScript, C++, Angular JS, JQuery, Mongo DB, MS SQL Server, JavaScript, Git, GitHub, AWS, Linux, Shell Scripting. Sr. Python Developer Orlando, FL October 2016 to April 2018 Responsibilities:  • Developed consumer-based features and applications using Python, Behavior Driven Development (BDD).  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures for normalization and demoralization in MYSQL  • Designed front end and backend of the admin application Python using on Django Web  • Used Pandas library for statistics Analysis. Used Numpy for Numerical analysis for Insurance premium and Managed large datasets using Pandas data frames and MySQL.  • Launching Amazon EC2 Cloud Instances using Amazon Images (Linux/ Ubuntu) and Configuring launched instances with respect to specific applications.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Wrote scripts to integrate API's with 3rd party applications.  • Wrote Python normalizations scripts to find duplicate data in different environments.  • Used HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON designed and developed the user interface of the website.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Worked under Agile/Scrum environment and handled production rollouts and issues.  • Developed new and enhanced search features such as SYNONYM, CANONICAL and ABBREVIATION for optimizing search results and relevancy. (JSON-elastic search-Kibana)  • Extensively used XLSX reader and writer modules to read, write and analyze data and project the results as per the client request.  • Used Collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  • working with various Python IDE's using PyCharm and Sublime Text.  • Worked with team of developers on Python applications for RISK management.  • Worked in developing the screens for agents, owners after they log into the web application  • Improved the coding standards, code reuse. Increased performance of the extended applications by making effective use of various design patterns (Front Controller, DAO).  • Worked on a large scale distributed computing environment, monitoring data nodes to prioritize jobs for processing functions.    Environment: Python 3.3, Django 1.6, HTML5, CSS, XML, MySQL, JavaScript, C++, Angular JS, Backbone JS, JQuery, Mongo DB, MS SQL Server, T-SQL, JavaScript, Eclipse, Git, GitHub, AWS, Linux, Shell Scripting. Python Developer Aetna - Hartford, CT June 2015 to October 2016 Responsibilities:  • Created Python and Bash tools to increase efficiency of call center application system and operations; data conversion scripts, AMQP/Rabbit MQ, REST, JSON, and CRUD scripts for API Integration.  • Used Celery with Rabbit MQ, Django to create a distributed worker framework.  • Recording of Scripts (Web, Web Services HTML) using Vugen and Soap UI and script validation through co correlations, parameterizations and other methods. Scripting- web and web services.  • Application was based on service-oriented architecture and used Python 2.7, Django1.5, JSF 2, Spring 2, Ajax, HTML, CSS for the frontend.  • Utilized Agile Methodologies to manage full life-cycle development of the project.  • Writing backend programming in Python and used the Django Framework to develop the application.  • Designed the frontend application using HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON and JQuery.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Developed RESTful services using Django.  • Worked on backend of the application, mainly using Active Records.  • Designed and developed communication between client and server using Secured Web services.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Java, Bootstrap, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Used JavaScript and XML to update a portion of a webpage.  • Deployed the project into Heroku using GIT version control system.  • Built various graphs for business decision making using Python matplotlib library.  • Fetched twitter feeds for certain important keyword using python-twitter library.  • Used Python library Beautiful Soup for web scrapping to extract data for building graphs.  • Worked on Jenkins continuous integration tool for deployment of project.  • Worked on changes to open stack and AWS to accommodate large-scale data center deployment.  • Used Amazon Cloud EC2 along with Amazon SQS to upload and retrieve project history.  • Hands on experience in project deployment using Heroku/Jenkins and using web services like Amazon Web Services (AWS) EC2, AWS S3, Auto scaling, Cloud watch and SNS.  • Executing regression tests on each release and verified bugs found from automation test in Bugzilla.  • Worked on Ansible and Ansible Tower to automate repetitive tasks, to deploy critical applications quickly, and proactively manage the changes.  • Planning, implementing, and converting manual test cases to automation test cases.  • Trained team members extensively in agile methodologies and implemented by participating in scrum stand ups, Kanban mode, discussing and implementing requirements with clients.    Environment: Python, Django, Cassandra, RabbitMQ, Vugen, Soap UI, Node.JS, REST API, Bash, PyDev, Spyder, Agile. Python Developer Citrix Systems Inc - Fort Lauderdale, FL September 2014 to May 2015 Responsibilities:  • Participate in requirement gathering and analysis phase of the project in documenting the business requirements by conducting workshops/meetings with various business users.  • Worked with team of developers on Python applications for RISK management.  • Developed Python/Django application for Google Analytics aggregation and reporting.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Worked on Python Open stack API's.  • Used UML Rational Rose to develop Use-case, Class and Object diagrams for OOA/OOD techniques.  • Built database Model, Views and API's using Python for interactive web-based solutions.  • Placed data into JSON files using Python to test Django websites.  • Created Unit test/ regression test framework for working/new code.  • Used PyQt to implement GUI for the user to create, modify and view reports based on client data.  • Installed and maintained web servers Tomcat and Apache HTTP in UNIX.  • I have used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Also used Bootstrap as a mechanism to manage and organize the html page layout.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Used LINUX as trouble shooter for systems  • Involved in debugging the applications monitored on JIRA using agile methodology.  • Attended many day-to-day meetings with developers and users and performed QA testing on the application.  • Involved in using containers like Docker.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.4, Amazon AWS S3, MySQL, HTML5, CSS, XML, MySQL, MS SQL Server, JavaScript, AWS, Linux, Shell Scripting, PHP, AJAX, Cassandra, Backbone JS, JQuery, Mongo DB, Git, GitHub, JAVA Sr. Python Developer Georgia Department of Labor - Atlanta, GA November 2013 to August 2014 Responsibilities:  • Wrote Python routines to log into the websites and fetch data for selected options.  • Used Python modules such as requests, urllib, urllib2 for web crawling.  • Worked on writing and as well as read data from csv and excel file formats.  • Involved in software development life cycle (SDLC) of tracking the requirements, gathering, analysis, detailed design, development, system testing and user acceptance testing.  • Developed consumer-based features and applications using Python, Behavior Driven Development (BDD).  • Designed front end and backend of the admin application Python using on Django Web Framework.  • Participated in the complete SDLC process.  • Developed rich user interface using CSS, HTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Deployed the project into Jenkins using GIT version control system.  • Learned to index and search/query large number of documents inside Elastic search.  • Creating invitation flow for customers to use the client portal for monitoring applications.  • Created the environment specific settings for a new deployment and update the deployment specific conditional checks in code base to use specific checks.  • For the large data management used TFS and delivered reliable end product.  • Used advanced packages like Mock, patch and beautiful soup (b4) to perform unit testing.  • Created database using MySQL, wrote several queries to extract data from database.  • Setup automated cron jobs to upload data into database, generate graphs, bar charts, upload these charts to wiki, and backup the database.  • Wrote scripts in Python for extracting data from HTML file.  • Effectively communicated with the external vendors to resolve queries.  • Used Perforce for the version control.    Environment: Python, Django 1.4, MySQL, Windows, Linux, HTML, CSS, JQuery, JavaScript, Apache, Linux. Python Developer AISquare - IN September 2010 to October 2013 Responsibilities:  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using python.  • Handled all the client-side validation using JavaScript.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  • Build SQL queries implementing functions, packages, views, triggers and tables.  • Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Handling the day to day issues and fine tuning the applications for enhanced performance.  • Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all of its commands.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.0, MySQL, Linux, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, SQL, MySQL, Apache Web Server, UNIX. Java Developer Colliers International - Mumbai, Maharashtra June 2007 to August 2010 Responsibilities:  Designed and developed user interface using Struts tags, JSP, HTML and JavaScript.  • Developed user specific Highlights (dashboard menu) section, Home page, Admin home page, user module (Modify/search users, create user's screens with assigning various roles) using Spring MVC framework, Hibernate ORM Module, Spring Core Module.  • Involved in multi-tiered J2EE design utilizing MVC architecture (Struts Framework) and Hibernate.  • Developed design specifications and object models using UML methodology and Rational Rose.  • Involved in various stages of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), analysis, design and development.  • Developed logic and code for the registration and validation.  • Developed program to send automatically generated mails,  • Performed client-side validation using JavaScript.  • Developed web-based user interfaces using JSP, HTML, and XML based client and server application.  • Involved in implementing and maintaining large content driven and E-commerce based application.  • Used Axis Web Services using SOAP to transfer the amount from an application that is remote and global to different financial institutions  • Involved in designing the user interfaces using HTML, CSS, and JSP's.  • Configured Hibernate, Spring and JSP to map the business objects to Mysql Database using XML configuration file  • Performed unit testing using JUNIT and used Log4j for logging and automatic batch jobs.  • Developed stored procedures and triggers using PL/SQL in order to calculate and update the tables to implement business logic.  • Developed and implemented PL/SQL stored procedures, functions, and triggers.  • Integration of front-end with Oracle database using JDBC API through JDBC-ODBC Bridge driver at server side.  • Conducted Unit testing, Interface testing, System testing and user acceptance testing.  • Support the applications through production and maintenance releases.    Environment: Java, Servlets, JSP, JavaScript, XML, HTML, UML, Rational Rose, JDBC, WebSphere Application Server, RAD, spring, Hibernate, Oracle 10g, PL/SQL, Junit Education Bachelor's Skills VISUAL STUDIO, AMAZON WEB SERVICES, DJANGO, Git, PYTHON, MySQL