Python Architect <span class="hl">Python</span> Architect Python Architect - Doozer.com Atlanta, GA ? 12+ years of experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Testing, Customization, Bug fixes, Enhancement, Support and Implementation of various web, stand-alone, client-server enterprise applications using Python, Django in various domains.  ? Experienced in working with various stages of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), Software Testing Life Cycle (STLC) and QA methodologies from project definition to post-deployment documentation.  ? Experience with Design, code, debug operations, reporting, data analysis and Web Applications utilizing Python.  ? Experienced in implementing Object Oriented Python, Hash Tables (Dictionaries) and Multithreading, Django, MYSQL, Exception Handling and Collections using Python.  ? Worked with MVW frameworks like Django, Angular JS, HTML, CSS, XML, Java Script, jQuery, Bootstrap.  ? Experience in writing JSON REST APIs using Golang.  ? Strong experience of software development in Python (libraries used: libraries- Beautiful Soup, numpy, scipy, matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas data frame, networkx, urllib2, MySQLdb for database connectivity) and IDEs - sublime text, Spyder, emacs.  ? Hands-on experience working with various Relational Database Management Systems (RDBMS) like MySQL, Microsoft SQL Server, Oracle & non- relational databases (NoSQL) like MongoDB and Cassandra.  ? Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language - implementing JSON based RESTful and XML based SOAP webservices.  ? Experience in using Design Patterns such as MVC, Singleton and frameworks such as DJANGO, Ability in handling Django ORM (Object-Relational Mapper) and SQLAlchemy.  ? Proficient in Python OpenStack API'S and GUI framework - Pyjamas (for web).  ? Pycharm Proficient in performing Data analysis and Data Visualization using Python libraries.  ? Scaling up projects using python tools like multithreading, celery.  ? Experience in using Version Control Systems like GIT, SVN and CVS to keep the versions and configurations of the code organized.  ? Experience in UNIX/Linux shell scripting for job scheduling, batch-job scheduling, automating batch programs, forking and cloning jobs.  ? Exposure to CI/CD tools - Jenkins for Continuous Integration, Ansible for continuous deployment.  ? Extensively worked on Hudson/Jenkins, Build Forge for continuous integration and for End to End automation for all build and deployments.  ? Experienced with containerizing applications using Docker.  ? Experience in maintaining and executing build scripts to automate development and production builds.  ? Experience in Amazon Web Services (AWS) cloud platform like EC2, Virtual private clouds (VPCs), Storage models (EBS, S3, instance storage), Elastic Load Balancers (ELBs).  ? Experienced in developing API services in Python/Tornado, while leveraging AMQP and RabbitMQ for distributed architectures.  ? Experience in developing ColdFusion Components, custom tags and modified CF Objects.  ? Experience with Unit testing/ Test driven Development (TDD), Load Testing.  ? Experienced in building tools such as ANT, Apache MAVEN, and JENKINS.  ? Experience in deploying applications in heterogeneous Application Servers TOMCAT, Web Logic and Oracle Application Server.  ? Good Experience on testing tools like JIRA and Bugzilla for bug tracking. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Architect Doozer.com - Atlanta, GA March 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Designed front end and backend of the application using Python on Django Web Framework  ? Used HTML, CSS Bootstrap, AJAX, JSON designed and developed the user interface of the website.  ? Used python libraries like Beautiful Soap, NumPy and SQL Alchemy.  ? Developed views and templates with Python OOD to create a user-friendly Website interface.  ? Participated in the complete SDLC process and used PHP to develop website functionality.  ? Created backend database T-SQL stored procedures and Jasper Reports.  ? Specified, prototyped, developed and tested an object-oriented, multiplatform C++ framework containing support to: data structures, common algorithms sockets, threading.  ? Refactor Restful APIs and Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  ? Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile)  ? Private VPN using Ubuntu, Python, Django, CherryPy, Postgres, Redis, Bootstrap, jQuery, Mongo, Fabric, Git, Tenjin, Selenium, Sphinx, Nose.  ? Implemented client side validation to avoid back and forward between server-client and provide better user experience using AngularJS.  ? Worked on fixing the bugs on existing Jiras and validated in the integration environment  ? Technical experience with LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, PYTHON)  ? Utilized Python 3.4 libraries such as numpy, pandas and matplotlib to read data from csv files aggregate and update data  ? Involved in writing optimization techniques for more accuracy of Macros in C/C++, C++ routines and Oracle SQL, PL/SQL.  ? Worked under Agile/Scrum environment and handled production rollouts and issues.  ? Integrated Redis-Cache with Django Rest Framework for reading the data faster  ? Automated the existing scripts for performance calculations using NumPy and SQL Alchemy.  ? Worked in NoSQL and MySQL database on queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization and renormalization.  ? Worked on object-oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, Django and Linux.  ? Used PhP language on lamp server to develop page.  ? Developed multi-threaded standalone applications using Python and PHP.  ? Involved in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM Process.  ? Created Business Logic using Python to create Planning and Tracking functions and developed multi-threaded standalone applications using Python and PHP.  ? Reviewed codes in Shell Script, Pearl, Python, AWK, C++, PL/SQL & T-SQL; created subprograms, procedures and functions, DB triggers, cursors and optimization techniques for T-SQL.  ? Responsible for debugging project monitored on JIRA (Agile)  ? Worked on Jira for managing the tasks and improving the individual performance.  ? Involved in Continuous Integration (CI) and Continuous Delivery (CD) process implementation using Jenkins along with Shell script.  ? Ability to successfully implement the application in LINUX environment.  ? Improved scalability by storing socket buffers on Redis and maintaining sessions by MongoDB.  ? Uses Gmock/Gtest framework to do Unit testing of the developed C++ modules.  ? Developed Docker images to support Development, TestingTeams and their piplines.  ? Worked on virtual and physical Linux hosts and involved in day to day administrative activities such as maintaining user accounts and providing advanced file permissions to specific users.    Environment: Python 3.4/2.7, Django 1.8, C++, MySQL, MongoDB, AWS, QPID, LAMP, Redis, JIRA, JSON, Angular JS, Docker, Agile, Jenkins, Linux, MYSQL, T-SQL, Shell, Spring MVC 4.0, PHP, Html5, JavaScript, Restful Web Service, Hibernate, jQuery, CSS, log4j, Tomcat, Lead Python Developer Ameya Infocom, CA October 2016 to February 2018 Responsibilities:  ? Designed front end and backend of the application using Python on Django Web Framework  ? Used HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON designed and developed the user interface of the website.  ? Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  ? Design and develop solutions using C, C++, Multi-Threaded, Shell Scripting.  ? Used JavaScript and JSON to update a portion of a webpage.  ? Built database structure and wrote Postgre SQL queries and Built Django and REDIS servers for data storing and Built web journal with framework and Jinja templates.  ? Develop consumer-based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML and Test Driven Development (TDD)  ? Working in team of Developers to build and deploy Python Flask, Peewee, on Linuxserver hosted on AWS.  ? Responsible for Working on Celery.  ? Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  ? Responsible for tracking and monitoring project status in JIRA (Agile)  ? Used IDE tool to develop the application and JIRA for bug and issue tracking.  ? Participated in the complete SDLC process and used PHP to develop website functionality.  ? Utilized STL and C++ algorithms to achieve optimal design efficiency.  ? Developed Python web services for processing JSON and interfacing with the Data layer.  ? Coding in LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and PHP) environment.  ? Responsible for using Tableau efficiently.  ? Developed an application that would allow transfer of log files from Linux computer to Linux server using C++ multithreading environment.  ? Collaborated on architecture, design including Python and Java automation framework.  ? Experienced in NoSQL technologies like MongoDB, Cassandra, QPID, Messaging, Redis and relational databases like Oracle, SQLite, PostgreSQL and MySQL databases.  ? Extensive experience in designing and implementing various web applications in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MySQL, PHP)  ? Worked on deployment of project on to Amazon S3.  ? Worked on virtual and physical Linux hosts and involved in day to day administrative activities such as maintaining user accounts and providing advanced file permissions to specific users.  ? Used GIT version control and deployed project to Heroku.  ? Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures for normalization and renormalization in MYSQL.  ? Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  ? Used JIRA to assign, track, report and audit the issues.  ? Shared responsibility for administration of Hive and Pig.  ? Improved the coding standards, code reuse. Increased performance of the extended applications by making effective use of various design patterns (Front Controller, DAO)  ? Programming and Changing UI screens using C++/QT Used multi-threading and thread synchronization extensively.  ? Worked on a large scale distributed computing environment, monitoring data nodes to prioritize jobs for processing functions.  ? Worked extensively with Bootstrap, JavaScript, and JQuery to optimize the user experience.    Environment: Python 3.0, Django 1.6, C++, HTML5, QPID, CSS, PHP, Redis, Java, MySQL, JavaScript, Angular JS, Backbone JS, JQuery, LAMP, Mongo DB, MS SQL Server, T-SQL, AWS, Linux, Shell Scripting. Lead Python Developer HCL - Dallas, TX January 2015 to September 2016 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in writing stored procedures using MySQL. Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures on MYSQL  ? Develop programs to automate the testing of controller in CI/CD environment using Python, Bash script, Git and Linux command line.  ? Design and develop solutions using C, C++, Multi-Threaded, Shell Scripting and Python  ? Developed Business Logic using python on Django Web Framework.  ? Developed views and templates with python and Django's view controller and templating language to create  ? Angular.js is used to build efficient backend for client web application.  ? Used python to extract information from XML files.  ? Expertise in Service Oriented (SOA) and its related technologies like Web Services, BPEL, WSDLs, SOAP, XML, XSD, XSLT etc.  ? Able to work with different operating systems like MacOS, Windows, and Linux.  ? Designed and developed a horizontally scalable APIs using python Flask.  ? Involved in debugging the applications monitored on JIRA using agile methodology.  ? Used Angular JS in the view layer for some of the view components.  ? Debugging and troubleshooting production issues, enforced, documented and implemented C++ standards guidelines.  ? Involved in developing code for obtaining bean references in Spring framework using.  ? Dependency Injection (DI) or Inversion of Control (IOC) using annotations.  ? Worked extensively with Core Java to develop code in Service Layer.  ? Provide design recommendations, developing and data interaction programs per high level specifications  ? Followed the Object-Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD)  ? Applied Do Not Repeat Yourself (DRY) principle.  ? Created Business logic using Python under Linux OS.  ? Used Service Oriented Architecture (SOA), to achieve loose coupling.  ? Used Jira for Ticketing.  ? Used Team City for Continuous build. Worked with UML Diagrams. Participated in application fine tuning.  ? Used jQuery to provide better features on the front end.  ? Provided extensive pre-delivery support using Bug Fixing and Code Reviews.  ? Used LOG4J & JUnit for debugging, testing and maintaining the system state.  ? Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  ? Developed tools using python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.    Environment: C++, Python3.x, Django, Shell Scripting, Pandas, PyQt, PyQuery, Wire shark, Flash, JSON, PHP, CSS3, AJAX, Angular.js, Bootstrap, Apache Web Server, Sr. Python Developer Home Depot - Atlanta, GA July 2012 to December 2014 Responsibilities:  ? Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  ? Utilized PyQt to provide GUI for the user to create, modify and view reports based on client data.  ? Used Python based GUI components for the front end functionality such as selection criteria.  ? Developed monitoring and notification tools using Python.  ? Deployed the entire code using Linux parameters of the virtual machines for UAT phase.  ? Worked on Technologies: QT, QML, C++, QNX, UML, JavaScript and Json.  ? Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery.  ? Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, HTML, Bootstrap, and REST API calls using the JSON.  ? Used GitHub for version control.  ? Integrating the application with Django REST framework for building the API's.  ? Worked with on AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings.  ? Extensively used XLSX reader and writer modules to read, write and analyze data and project the results as per the client request.  ? Good Experience in Linux Bash scripting and following PEP-8 Guidelines in Python.  ? Using Django evolution and manual SQL modifications was able to modify Django models while retaining all data, while site was in production mode.  ? Improved the coding standards, code reuse. Increased performance of the extended applications by making effective use of various design patterns (Front Controller, DAO)  ? Utilized STL and C++ algorithms to achieve optimal design efficiency.  ? Creating Restful web services for Catalog and Pricing with Django MVT, MySQL and Oracle.  ? Using SQLAlchemy with Flask and PostgreSQL as database for developing the web application.  ? Used REST and SOAP API for testing web service for server-side changes.  ? Developing scripts for build, deployment, maintain and related task using Jenkins, Maven, Python, Bash.  ? Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to Postgresql with complete data integrity.  ? Automated tasks with tools like Puppet and Ansible.  ? Setup Docker on Linux and configured Jenkins to run under Docker host.  ? Managed code versioning with GitHub, Bitbucket and deployment to staging and production servers.  ? Taken part in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  ? Continuous improvement in integration workflow, project testing, and implementation of continuous integration pipeline with Jenkins    Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.10, MySQL, Python Scripting, MongoDB, AJAX, SOAP, REST, jQuery, JavaScript, Bootstrap, PyCharm, AWS (EC2, S3, RDS) Sr. Python Developer Wells Fargo - San Francisco, CA February 2011 to June 2012 Responsibilities:  ? Responsible for using AJAX framework with JQuery, Dojo implementation for Widgets and Events handling.  ? Customizing Log4J for maintaining information and debugging.  ? Preparing builds, deploy and co-ordinate with the release management team to ensure that the proper process is followed during the release.  ? Customizing third party vendor information using Web services (SOAP and WSDL)  ? Designed DTD's for XML representation of data.  ? Worked with development of data access beans using hibernate, middle ware web service components.  ? Develop the GUI using JSP, spring web flow following spring web MVC pattern.  ? Implemented persistence layer using Hibernate that use the POJOs to represent the persistence database tables.  ? Used SVN for version control across common source code used by developers.  ? Written the JUNIT test cases for the functionalities.  ? Used Log4j for application logging and debugging.    Environment: Python, RAD 7.0, C++, Ajax, HTML Restful API, MySQL, Django, JSON, Panda, Java, Shell Scripting, PL/SQL, SVN, Jenkins, Jira, UNIX, Linux, Python Developer Microsoft - Seattle, WA October 2009 to January 2011 Responsibilities:  ? Designed and developed components using Python. Implemented code in Python to retrieve and manipulated data.  ? Re-engineered various modules for implementing changes and creating efficient system.  ? Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL and creating efficient system.  ? Designed and Developed UI using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, Java Script and jQuery.  ? Used Java Script libraries like jQuery UI, DataGrid, jscolor, high charts.  ? Developed the presentation layer HTML, JSP, CSS and DHTML.  ? Developed widgets for GUI using PyGtk modules of python.  ? Used Django to develop web-based application and deploy it using Jenkins.  ? Used MySQL as backend database and MySQL dB of python as database connector to interact with MySQL server.  ? Developed Page layouts, Navigation and presented designs and concepts to the clients and the management to review.  ? Using Restful APIs to access data from different suppliers.  ? Used Python and Django for creating graphics, XML processing of documents, data exchange and business logic implementation between servers.  ? Used python Data structures like sqlite3, dictionaries, and tuples.  ? Used several Python libraries like NumPy, Pandas and Matplotlib.  ? Helped with the migration from the old server to Jira database with Python scripts for transferring and verifying the information  ? Supported Apache Tomcat Web server on Linux Platform.  ? Used RAD 7.0 for implementing Static and Dynamic web services for consuming and providing services related to the business.  ? Developed and executed User Acceptance Testing portion of test plan.  ? Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Serving using AJAX, JSON, and XML.    Environment: Java, JDK, J2EE, JSP, Spring, Servlets, JavaScript, XML, HTML, CSS, Web Services (RESTful), XML, XSLT, Ajax, Log4j, Tortoise SVN, Rational Application Developer, WebSphere application server, Red hat Linux, JBOSS. Python Developer T-Mobile - Seattle, WA February 2007 to September 2009 Responsibilities:  ? Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  ? Worked with millions of database records on a daily basis, finding common errors and bad data patterns and fixing them.  ? Exported/Imported data between different data sources using SQL Server Management Studio.  ? Maintained program libraries, user's manuals and technical documentation.  ? Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  ? Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  ? Used Python library Beautiful Soup for web scrapping to extract data for building graphs.  ? Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  ? Implemented code in Python to retrieve and manipulate data.  ? Also used Bootstrap as a mechanism to manage and organize the HTML page layout.  ? Responsible for using the best technologies to add features to the existing system and services.  ? Involved in all aspects of the development process from product inception to scaling in production.  ? Accountable for driving software development best practices for the team and also mentoring and developing junior engineers.  ? Working in collaboration with project managers and higher management in cross-functional teams within Sales and Account Management, to understand business requirements and develop efficient, elegant approaches to their implementation.  ? Writing REST APIs, as part of developing web-based applications for insurance premium calculations, using Django'sREST framework.  ? Heavily leveraged Python's graphics APIs for creating graphics and serialization libraries for encoding data in XML/JSON formats.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.6, Tableau 8.2, Beautiful soup, HTML5, CSS/CSS3, Bootstrap, XML, JSON, JavaScript, JQuery, Angular JS, Backbone JS, Restful Web services, Apache, Linux, Git, Amazon s3, Jenkins, MySQL, Mongo DB, T-SQL, Eclipse. Developer Infosys July 2006 to January 2007 Responsibilities:  ? Utilized Angular 1.x, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, SASS, NPM, Node.js, Grunt, site development.  ? Utilized elastic search for loading the data to client-side from Data Base.  ? Used drag and drop plugin in Angular 1.x for dragging and dropping the reports to different kits.  ? Used Angular.JS for developing the modules on front-end and binding the HTML.  ? Fixed bugs from existing websites and implemented enhancements that significantly improved web functionality and speed.  ? Utilized Bootstrap for responsive design.  ? Have used angular.js controller $http for API integration.  ? Used angular.js directives for binding the html elements.  ? Used tableau for database.  ? Used agile methodology sprints for software development with GIT version control.  ? Used firebug lite, safari, IE, with IE developer toolbar for debugging and integration test.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, Elastic search, Angular.JS, Atom, GIT, Restful, Tableau and java. Education Bachelor's