Freelance WordPress Developer Freelance WordPress <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Developer Raleigh, NC Howdy    My name is Varun. I'm a full stack web/mobile app developer. I love coding. It's a passion of mine. It's what I live for.    My references certainly think so. Check them out here on my LinkedIn page: https://www.linkedin.com/in/codingaficionado    My main skills are:   - PHP (most frameworks)   - Well versed in Laravel, can easily handle WordPress   - JavaScript (also Angular 5.0, ReactJS)   - HTML5, CSS3   - Python (also Django)   - iOS (Swift)   - Ionic Framework   - Android   - Ruby on Rails   - Woocommerce, Shopify or custom development   - many more ...    Also, I have a page dedicated to my work and projects. Please check them out here:   http://vmehta.dunked.com/  I am available to work on a contract basis, part time and I work remote from my home office.     I just have one simply objective: To get it done.     Look forward to our collaboration together.     Thank you,  Varun M. Mehta Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Freelance WordPress Developer January 2010 to Present • Developing and designing WordPress themes  • Coding custom fields for complex requirements  • Projects: Pathevo, Commutyble, GuardianAngel platform, Webmobile Image Java Developer/Consultant Yconversion May 2014 to October 2016 • HTML and CSS  • Java Developer Python and iOS developer DeepMile March 2016 to September 2016 • Django CMS  • Linux Server Admin  • iOS Swift developer Software Developer Yconversion March 2016 to August 2016 • HTML, CSS and PHP  • Fixing issues with existing codebase  • Developing new functionality for Event Builder and Ticketing Software Engineer Yconversion January 2015 to July 2015 • Python and iOS  • Involved in designing application flows  • Java Developer Python Developer North Carolina DHHS - Albany, NY April 2010 to March 2014 Citizen Financial Group, Boston MA  EMC Corporation, Hopkinton MA QA Engineer Lehman Brothers - Jersey City, NJ December 2007 to January 2010 • Developed thorough and detailed test scripts documenting clearly steps and expected/actual results  • Provide SQL logs and assist in debugging  • Automate using several web browser based solutions Education Master's in Computer Science RUTGERS UNIVERSITY - New Brunswick, NJ 2005 to 2007 Skills PHP, Javascript, Angular 5.0, ReactJS, HTML5, CSS3, Python, Django, iOS (Swift), Ionic, Android, Jquery Links http://vmehta.dunked.com https://www.linkedin.com/in/codingaficionado https://github.com/varun2508 Publications Poplar http://poplar.studio/ 2019-01 Poplar Studio is a perfect choice for brands and creators.   Interesting colour combination and captivating design inspire you to create beautiful things and think out-of-the-box.    Technologies used: WordPress Hive http://hive.com/ 2018-12 Hive is a powerful project management and collaboration software.   This platform was developed to help you manage all your projects efficiently.    Technologies used: WordPress Jaggaer http://www.jaggaer.com/ 2018 JAGGAER is the world’s only company delivering best-of-breed solutions to manage the entire procurement spectrum, from indirect to direct spend.    Technologies used: WordPress Ossa http://joinossa.com/ 2018-10 Ossa is an exceptional ad booking platform designed especially to empower women in podcasting.     Technologies used: Symphony NASA - AstroKit Project http://www.astrokit.org/ 2018-05 Front End design in fully responsive HTML/CSS bridging the gap between earthly design and celestial enchantment.    Technologies used: HTML/CSS Element Strategies http://element-strategies.com 2018-03 A simple yet powerful message relayed through provocative design and UX.   Website crafted to drive a solid point home, exemplifying beauty through code.    Technologies used: WordPress Nike Apparel Designer http://www.nike.com 2017-07 The world's top most apparel company demands nothing short of perfection from it's designers.   This apparel designer is used by people around the world while shopping for some of the most desirable custom apparel available to mankind.   Created in HTML, CSS with jade template this design is fully responsive.     Technologies used: HTML/CSS, React Abarca http://abarcahealth.com/ 2017-12 Abarca is a different kind of PBM and a different kind of company.   This platform is built from scratch with the goal of delivering a far better experience for end users and, ultimately, members.    Technologies used: WordPress Purple Patriot http://www.purplepatriot.com 2017-11 A potent and valuable platform to encourage women to participate in politics. An attempt to relay a message that's both critical in this day and age and life changing.   Built on Cordova platform utilizing the latest in Hybrid mobile technology and the ability to write and execute one codebase on both Android and iOS.    Technologies used: Ionic, Laravel Baas Bikes iOS App http://www.baasbikes.com 2017-08 Baas Bikes is a revolutionary app that features bike market places across universities. Currently featuring bikes in North Virginia and DC area colleges, Baas Bikes allows bike rental for a test ride period before users can decide to buy.   Users can use Bluetooth to unlock the bike lock.   App available for both Google Play Store and Apple App Store platforms.     Technologies used: Android, iOS