Python/Java Developer Intern <span class="hl">Python</span>/Java <span class="hl">Developer</span> Intern Python/Java Developer Intern Greensboro, NC • Experience in business analytics, technical solutions, software development, architecture design and system integration.  • Proficiency in drawing important patterns, trends and insights from data to provide recommendations for clients. Work Experience Python/Java Developer Intern Market America - Greensboro, NC January 2019 to March 2019 • Worked on analyzing Hadoop clusters and different big data analytics tools using Stream sets and Apache Nifi.  • Developed Kafka consumer to consumer microservice logs and store them to disk and get them to SumoLogic.  • Bulk import of data from various data sources into Hadoop and transforming data in flexible ways using Apache Nifi.  • Investigating new technologies, tools and processes and make recommendations for adoption.  • Worked on migration projects to migrate data from UniVerse to Couchbase.  • Tools & Technologies used: Apache Nifi, Lenses, Kafka Monitor, Streamsets, Couchbase, UniVerse, Python, JAVA IT Support Lab Consultant UNCG - Greensboro, NC September 2018 to January 2019 • Successfully solving problems through customer facing troubleshooting for Consistent Office Environment (CEO) for the university students.  • This includes active directory management, authorization and access control and system/software reset  • Implementing new hardware and software solutions within university's Super lab to improve workflow.  • Working closely with IT team members and supervisors to improve troubleshooting skills and situation analysis.  • Leading workload and performance tracking for labs to meet stated management expectations and relevant standards Data Analytics Intern Radius8 Inc - Princeton, NJ May 2018 to August 2018 Extracted, interpreted & analyzed data to identify key metrics & transform raw data into meaningful information related to retail customer  marketing and buying trends. Produced reports in various formats for consumption by key decision makers.  • Provided business ROI analysis and data insights for current and prospective customers.  • Designed architecture built and tested functionalities on Amazon AWS EC2 platform.  • Created visually impactful dashboards in Excel and Tableau for data reporting by using pivot tables and VLOOKUPs.  • Created Test data and Test Cases documentation for regression and performance enhancement for the company.  • Completed documentation on all assigned systems and databases, including business rules, logic and processes.  • Maintained the development of moderately complex business solutions, which included data and business analysis.  • Manipulation and validation of retail client data including store location, inventory and product purchase trends.  • Tools & Technologies used: MongoDB, Oracle, MySQL, S3, EMR, AWS, Azure, Docker, Spark Engine, JavaScript Software Development Intern Airport Authority of India - Delhi, Delhi June 2016 to July 2016 • Designed Models for air traffic control and flight planning via database management and processing.  • Reduced the complexity thereby improving flight monitoring software with programs.  • Provided user requirement analysis, design & programming support for enhancement of Web Application accessed nationwide.  • Languages used: JAVA, C++, C Education Master of Science in Computer Science University of North Carolina - Greensboro, NC August 2017 to May 2019 Bachelor of Technology in Electronics and Communication Amity School of Engineering and Technology - Noida, Uttar Pradesh July 2013 to May 2017 Skills C++, Docker, Html, Javascript, Php, Python, Scripting, Xml, Artificial intelligence, Etl, Informatica, Machine learning, Mongodb, Power bi, Database, Database systems, Sql server, Mysql, Oracle, Sql Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/bansal-kriti