Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Amazon Web Developer Instructor Phoenix, AZ Front End Developer Role, Ethereum Smart Contracts, Data Science, Machine Learning Work Experience Python Developer IBG, LLC 2013 to Present • Developed a risk scoring component of the system using topic modeling with Sci kit - learn.  • Built a web scraper to perform data gathering requests and create input for beautiful soup.  • Familiar with the front-end design of website application using HTML, CSS and Java script  • Built application interface and web scrapping scripts using OO designing  • Developed Python based API (RESTful Web Service) to track sales and perform sales analysis using Flask, SQLAlchemy and PostgreSQL.  • Developed based web traffic and sales statistical analysis using Pandas.  • Webscraping for SEO competitive analysis   • Developed Python scripts for social listening such as sentiment analysis. Web Developer Instructor Amazon - Phoenix, AZ Present Web Development Instructor at Amazon thru Condensedcurriculum, llc. Teaching Web Development 16 week bootcamp - HTML, CSS, Javascript to Amazon employees. Full Stack Web Developer Anteon - Navy Post Graduate School 2006 to 2012 • Developed fully functional responsive student registration prototypes based on Business Requirements using HTML/HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and REACT.  • Worked in both Agile and Waterfall settings.Tested front-end code in multiple browsers to ensure cross-browser compatibility.Maintained brand standards under company guidelines.Consulted and documented UI best practices and code standards.Participated in projects in all stages of the product life cycle.Leveraged responsive web frameworks to consistently complete product deliverables ahead of schedule. UX/UI Designer BOOZ ALLEN & HAMILTON - ARMY NATIONAL GUARD 1994 to 1998 Created User flow diagrams, wireframing prototypes from concept to deliverables.  Established UX design as the first of all Desktop & Web application development on prototype to implementation. Hand Sketches, Visio, PowerPoint, to mockup HTML interfaces. Provided Software QA on website and worked with the programming team to establish software QA. 9 million dollar test demo is now an 87 million dollar project.  EDCUATION EXPERIENCE    Virginia Commonwealth University - Bachelors Sociology & Computer Science (minor)    NOTES  • Gaps in employment is to do previous employment in the entertainment industry. Education Bachelor's Skills Data science (2 years), Javascript (3 years), Machine learning (Less than 1 year), Python (3 years), Sql (1 year), Social Media Marketing (4 years), SEO (3 years) Certifications/Licenses Google Analytics December 2018 to December 2019 Google Analytics Certified. Google Adwords November 2018 to Present Google Adwords Certified