Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - ASCENA RETAIL GROUP Columbus, OH • 11+ years of experience as a Web/Application Developer and coding with analytical programming using Python, Django, PHP, C++, XML, CSS, HTML5/CSS3, AngularJS, DHTML, JavaScript and jQuery. Developing a large Python based back-end processing application  • Comfortable with the Linux command line with strong environment.  • Experienced in complete Software Development Life Cycle, and major aspects of technological projects including Requirement Analysis, Design, Development, Database Design, Deployment, Testing, Debugging, and Application Maintenance.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, DJANGO, GTK, QT, C++, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, PERL.  • Experienced in NoSQL technologies like MongoDB, CouchDB Cassandra, Redis and relational databases like Oracle, SQLite and MySQL databases.  • Experienced in implementing Model View Control (MVC) architecture using server-side applications like Django and Flask for developing web applications.  • Experienced with version control systems like Git, GitHub, CVS, and SVN to keep the versions and configurations of the code organized.  • experience analysing very large, complex, multi-dimensional data sets and developing analytic solutions, experience in predictive analytics using Python.  • Working on WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL and Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, Python/PHP) Architecture.  • Experienced with Python programming and Python libraries for data science included in the Anaconda distribution including NumPy, pandas. python packages like, SciPy, tables etc.  • Familiar with REST and AWS (Amazon Web services) in Redshift, EMR for improved efficiency of Storage and Proficient in SQL databases MS SQL, MySQL, Oracle and NoSQL databases MongoDB, Cassandra, Oracle. Expertise in SQL stored queries.  • UNIX and Linux shell environments using command line utilities.  • Provided support to Application and database team, troubleshoot issues encountered while providing support, contact AWS Support whenever necessary.  • Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Experience with the Linux command line environment. Proficient knowledge on basic coding principle.  • Experience in object-oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python C, C++.  • Experience with Web Development, AWS, Python and the Django framework.  • Experienced with JSON based RESTful web services, and XML based SOAP web services and worked on various applications using python integrated IDEs like Eclipse, IntelliJ, Sublime Text and PyCharm.  • Having experience in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Hands on experience in SVN, Git, JIRA and Bugzilla.  • Experience of dealing with various development methodologies like Waterfall, Scrum, and Agile.  • Experience in project deployment using Heroku, Jenkins and Amazon Web Services (AWS) and have knowledge about object-oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, C++ and PHP.    • Experienced in web applications development using Django/ Python, Flask/ Python, and DOJO, jQuery while using HTML/CSS/JS for server-side rendered applications Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer ASCENA RETAIL GROUP - Columbus, OH December 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Developed front-end and back-end of the application using python on Django web framework.  • Automating data movements using python scripts, involved in splitting, validating and processing of files.  • Used several python libraries like NumPy, Logging, Pandas, Cluster.  • Experienced with JSON based RESTful web services, and XML based SOAP web services and worked on various applications using python integrated IDEs like Eclipse, IntelliJ, Sublime Text and PyCharm.  • Having experience in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment,  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views using Python, to assemble an intelligent online arrangement.  • Developed Web based Dynamic Form Builder using HTML, CSS, JavaScript Object-to-XML.  • Expertise in React JS framework to develop the SPA.  • Contributing to the refinement and ramp-up of the DDA technology and (Big) Data analytics stack.  • along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Designed and created information administration framework utilizing MySQL.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views using Python, to manufacture an intuitive electronic arrangement.  • Used Django framework to develop the application and used Python modules such as requests and urlib2 for web crawling.  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture.  • Developed the ETL mappings in PL/SQL via packages, procedures, functions, views and triggers.  • Used Python based GUI segments for the front-end usefulness, for example, choice criteria, created test outfit to empower exhaustive testing using Python.  • Involved in deploying systems on Amazon Web Services Infrastructure services EC2, S3, RDS, SQS, Cloud Formation.  • Stored the data in the form of JSON structure-based documents, stored in a collection using MongoDB. Worked on creating the Docker containers and Docker consoles for managing the application life cycle.  • Developed server-side software modules and client-side user interface components deployed entirely in Compute Cloud of Amazon Web Services (AWS).  • Created PL/SQL stored procedures, functions and packages for moving the data from staging area to data mart.    Environment: Python, Django, Shell Scripting, AWS, Pandas, PyQt, Wireshark, Flash, DOM, JSON, PHP, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JavaScript, Bootstrap, Apache Web Server, MYSQL, GitHub, LINUX. Python Developer Catholic Health Initiatives - Lincoln, NE October 2015 to December 2017 Responsibilities:  • Mainly used Python alongside using various libraries such as Matplotlib for charts and graphs, MySQL dB for database connectivity, Python -twitter, PySide, Pickle, Pandas data frame, network.  • Developed an embedded software data driven test automation framework in Linux/ Python. Designed test cases and authored test plans.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Used Python with OpenStack, OpenERP (now ODOO), SQL Alchemy, DJango CMS etc.  • Provide team guidance from agile experience/learning and day-to-day support to the scrum team.  • Configured SiteMinder web agents, Affiliate agents and RADIUS agents to provide federation of web services in the SSO environment.  • Developed website based on Django CMS.  • Developing dynamic web pages using HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, jQuery & D3JS.  • Created and populated digital brochures using Page Turn Pro and built photo galleries on website in the Django CMS and also using Django CMS plugin.  • Configuring SSO for different applications in different domains with Cookie Provider and troubleshooting issues related to them.  • Maintenance and development of a high-traffic and -demand site and platform running on a custom-rolled Django CMS.  • Managing content population and deployments through Django CMS.  • Experience in designing and developing interactive User Interfaces, usability, web and client/server applications using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Installing new Web Agents on Unix Apache servers and Windows IIS servers for implementing SSO for new applications.  • Experience using Content Management Systems: WordPress and Django CMS plugins.  • Expertise in client scripting language and serve scripting languages like JavaScript, JQuery, JSON and Bootstrap.  • Used the Node.js, Angular.js MVC Frameworks in the development of the web applications. Unit testing with JavaScript and node.js.  • Consumed REST based Microservices with Rest template based on RESTful APIs and designed, developed and tested HTML, CSS, jQuery and React.js that meets accessibility and web browser standards for car dealerships websites.    Environment: Python, Django, Django-cms, SSO, database access, Django-cms plugins, Bootstrap, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, Agile. Python Developer Whirlpool Corporation - Stockton, CA November 2013 to October 2015 Responsibilities:  • Design, develop, test, deploy and maintenance of the website.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using PHP/ Python.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Java, Bootstrap, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Rewrite existing Java modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Worked on web-scraping the WebPages and used modules like urllib2, Beautiful Soup and pandas.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and loaded the data in database.  • Used Python libraries such numpy, scipy, Matplotlib and pandas  • Automated the existing scripts for performance calculations using Numpy.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using python.  • Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for existing code  • Created an Test Automation Framework with Selenium for test automation process  • Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting of web application.    Environment: Python 2.6, Flask web framework, Java, MySQL, Linux, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, Apache Web Server, Spark, Pandas,numpy, scipy, Matplotlib, AWS. Python Developer Dow Jones Market - New York, NY August 2011 to November 2013 Responsibilities:  • Involved in preparing engineering specification with OOA and OOD.  • Used UML Tools to develop Use Case diagrams, Class diagrams, Collaboration and Sequence Diagrams, State Diagrams and Data Modeling.  • Developed application logic using Python, Java script, C++.  • Used JMS for updating Mailing plans and tracking them.  • Used Java Server Pages for content layout and presentation.  • Worked extensively with Bootstrap, JavaScript, and jQuery to optimize the user experience.  • Enhanced existing automated solutions, such as the Inquiry Tool for automated Asset Department reporting and added new features and fixed bugs  • Created database using MySQL, wrote several queries to extract/store data.  • Developed, tested and debugged software tools utilized by clients and internal customers  • Extracted and loaded data using Python scripts and PL/SQL packages  • Configuration and installation of MongoDB Servers and Ops Manager in Integration, Test and Prod Environment.  • Worked on Installation and configure MongoDB Cluster nodes on different AWS EC2 instances.  • Supported Java application for Media portal management.  • Generated SWIG interfaces to co-ordinate between C++, Java and Python. Used JNI for communication between C++ and Java.  • Implementing complete web SSO features with Identity Federation with SAML 2.0 compliance.  • Responsible for federating with clients using SAML and proprietary SSO.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using python.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  • Debugging and testing of the applications & fine-tuning performance.  • Provided maintenance support in production environment.    Environment: Python, Django1.4, HTML/CSS, MS SQL Server 2012, MySQL, Script, Eclipse, GIT, GitHub, AWS, Linux, Shell Scripting. Software Developer GENFARE - Elk Grove Village, IL September 2009 to August 2011 Responsibilities:  • Architect and implement scalable, high-performance Scala services on the AWS platform.  • Involved in development of Front-end Using Angular2.0, JavaScript, HTML5 and Back-end using Enterprise Java Beans.  • Wrote modular, secure, and well-tested front-end code in JS, HTML, and CSS using latest web application frameworks  • Analyse, develop, test, code, implement and maintain software and computer systems to meet  business and project requirements  • Responsible for creating the JavaScript code, for different modules.  • Extensive back-end API testing using POST-MAN.  • Documented software defects using bug tracking tool JIRA  • Automated front-end web pages using Selenium, Robot Framework.  • Used HP-ALM for writing and tracking test cases.  • Refactored a Templating application designed to construct data input sub-modules in HTML.  • Developed Front-End web pages using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap4.  • Working on browsers compatibility issues.  • Supported for the defects on time-based priority in DEV/QA/ UAT and PROD environments.  • Writing service methods and SQL queries, PL/SQL to interact with the Oracle DBMS.  Environment: Angular 2.0, Bootstrap3, SQL, PL-SQL, Robot Framework, Selenium, POST-MAN, JIRA, SOAP UI, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap4 Angular, GIT, SQL Server, Restful Web services. Software developer MEGAMIND'S - Hyderabad, Telangana July 2007 to September 2009 Responsibilities:  • Involved in the all life-cycle design and development  • Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS, Bootstrap and JavaScript  • Used Python scripts for automation of production tasks  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) such as requirements gathering, modelling, analysis, design and development  • Wrote REST APIs, as part of developing web-based applications for insurance premium calculations, using Django's REST framework  • Involved in writing stored procedures using MySQL  • Worked with JSON based REST Web services  • Involved in capturing the requirements for serial functional interface and other software requirements specification document    Environment: Python, Linux, Shell Scripting, JavaScript, Django Framework, CSS, SQL, MySQL, LAMP, jQuery, Adobe Dreamweaver, Apache web server.XML, XSL, HTML, JavaScript, JBOSS, Oracle 10g, Windows, web services. Education Bachelor's