Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer New York, NY • Over 6 years of experience as a web application developer and coder using python, Django, java, MVC and maintaining up-to-date industry knowledge.  • Expertise in handling web applications - UI (experience), security, logging, backend services.  • Extensive experience working with Django framework.  • Worked with JQuery third party libraries in Django framework- feedback plugin, photo light, social-likes, jQuery tables, slick grid and google charts, etc.  • Created numerous Django apps and extensively used Django Session and authentication management.  • Solid experience installing numerous Python packages using pip install- sphinx, reportlab, xlwt, xlrd, virtualenv, lxml, etc.  • Used python packages like cx_oracle, pyodbc and MySQL dB for working with Oracle, SQL Server and MySQL DB respectively.  • Knowledge on JSON and SimpleJSON based web services.  • Installed numerous python packages using pip and easy_install.  • Very good understanding of Python requests module and HTTP requests, response, methods, headers.  • Strong experience in developing UI applications using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery and Bootstrap.  • Good experience working on huge database.  • Implemented PEP8 coding standards across all projects.  • Built and deployed production sites using apache.  • Adept in providing analytical support to key business applications/ solutions.  • Able to deliver project under stringent timelines and high pressure.  • Acted as a liaison between Management & development team for Requirements & QA.  • Rich experience in translating Business requirements to understandable IT systems requirements and Implementing CMM Methods & Procedures across the organization.  • Good experience on using Mercurial, Git (GERITT review) and CVS for configuration management.  • Implemented continuous integration using Jenkins.  • Developed and deployed REST web services consumed by multiple applications  • Excellent verbal and written skills, especially with regards to presenting findings to both technical and non-technical audiences.  • AWS cloud servers using Amazon console creating servers, setting ports and firewall. Setting internal & external ips, locking down ip address, cloud watch and other components. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Python Developer - New York, NY January 2006 to Present Education B.Tech in Computer Science Vellore Institute of Technology - Vellore, Tamil Nadu