Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - GILT GROUPE, INC Boulder, CO • Over 8 years of experience as a Web/Application Developer, analytical programming software development and design using Python, Django.   • Having experienced in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL, PL/SQL and PostgreSQL database.   • Basic Knowledge on JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services.   • Basic knowledge on Rest API and JSON Parsing, jQuery and Angular JS   • Experience in building frameworks in Python for Test Automation.   • Excellent Experience in Code Refactoring and Udeploy. Solid ability to code in JavaScript.   • Followed Agile Methodologies (Scrum) involved in daily stand-up meetings.   • Managed windows servers which included Active Directory maintenance and support   • Hands on experience with bug tracking tools such as JIRA and Bugzilla   • Experienced with Python Libraries Beautiful Soup, NumPy, Pandas data frame, Matplotlib, python-twitter, urllib2.   • Thorough knowledge in various front-end tools like HTML, JavaScript, XML, jQuery and AJAX.   • Strong experience in Data Analysis, Data Migration, Data Cleansing, Transformation, Integration, Data Import, and Data export using multiple ETL tools such as Ab Initio and Informatica Power Center.   • Experience in Bash Shell Scripting, SQL and Java Full stack web development using Python   • Having Good Experience in Object Oriented Concepts with C# and Python2.7/ 3.x.   • Extensive experience in using Python/Perl to code and design various phases for data processing pipeline.   • Experienced on Installation, Integration and Configuration of third party tools, Content Management System (CODEIGNITER, Zend, Laravel, Smarty)   • Good knowledge on IBM WebSphere Application Deployment and maintenance of an application on Application Server using clusters concept and IBM Tivoli Monitoring.   • Good knowledge in various phases of SDLC Requirement Analysis, Design, Development and Testing on various Development and Enhancement Projects.   • HTTP-serializable JSON strings.   • Experienced in working with different operating systems like Windows, Ubuntu, Linux and UNIX.    Work Experience:  Python Developer  GILT GROUPE, INC, New York, NY  May 2000 to Present    Responsibilities:   • Search engine optimization by replacing existing database with MongoDB (NoSQL Database).   • Documented company Restful API's using Swagger for internal and third part use and also worked on Unit testing and Integration testing.   • Used Git for the version control.   • Created a Git repository and added the project to GitHub.   • Collaborated with internal teams and external teams to solve the issues and giving feedbacks.   • Worked on object-oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, Django and Linux.   • Used JIRA for bug tracking and issue tracking.   • Practical experience with working on multiple environments like development, testing, production.   • Documented the problems and progress of project most accurately.   • Created Python and Bash tools to increase efficiency of call center application system and operations; data conversion scripts, REST, JSON, and CRUD scripts for API Integration.   • Created a Python/Django based web application using Python scripting for data processing, MySQL for the database, and HTML/CSS/jQuery and High Charts for data visualization of the served pages.   • Built Python scripts to identify and correct erroneous data in PostgreSQL database using clustering, regression, and statistics   • Used standard Python modules e.g. csv, robot parser, itertools, pickle, jinja2, lxml for development.   • Worked extensively with Bootstrap, JavaScript, and jQuery to optimize the user experience.   • Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content. Developed entire frontend and backend modules using PHP/ Python.   • Used Python Library Beautiful Soup for web scrapping to extract data for building graphs.   • Rewrite existing Java modules to deliver certain format of data.   • Handled all the client-side validation using JavaScript.   • Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.   • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting of web application.   • Design, develop, test, deploy and maintenance of the website   • Involved in the design, development and testing phases of application using AGILE methodology.   • Developed and designed an API (Restful Web Service).   • Used the Python language to develop web-based data retrieval systems.   • Designed and maintained databases using and developed Python based API (Restful Web Service).   • Designed and developed the user interface of the project with HTML, CSS and JavaScript   • Entire Front end and back end modules of the project are developed using Python with Django Framework.   • Developed web sites using Django, Python, XHTML, CSS, and JavaScript.   • Developed and designed e-mail marketing campaigns using HTML and CSS.   • Involved in analysis, specification, design, and implementation and testing phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and used agile methodology for developing application.   • Interacted with the client end-users during requirements gathering sessions   • Upgraded existing UI with HTML, CSS, jQuery and Bootstrap.   • Working as an application developer experienced with controllers, views and models in Django.   • Implemented Business logic, worked on data exchange, processed XML and HTML using python Worked in Agile development following Scrum process, Sprint and daily stand-up meetings   • Developed Views and Templates with Django view controller and template language to create a user-friendly website interface.   • Worked on frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.   • Implemented and enhanced CRUD operations for the applications using the MVT (Model View Template) architecture of Django framework and Python conducting code reviews.   • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery.   • Created APIs, database Model and Views Utilization Python in order to build responsive web page application.   • Wrote Python modules to extract/load asset data from the MySQL source database.   • Used GitHub for Python source code version control, Jenkins for automating the build Docker containers, and deploying in Mesos   • Designed and implemented a dedicated MySQL database server to drive the web apps and report on daily progress.   • Used PyUnit, the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications.   • Worked on Jenkins continuous integration tool for deployment of project.   • Automated the continuous integration and deployments using Jenkins, Docker, Ansible and AWS Cloud Templates.   • Participated in requirement gathering and worked closely with the architect in designing and modeling.   • Developed, tested and debugged software tools for clients and internal customers of the organization.   • Refactored existing batch jobs and migrated existing legacy extracts from Informatica to Python based micro services and deployed in AWS with minimal downtime.   • Coded test programs and evaluated existing engineering processes.   • 2.7 and its familiar framework Django   • Restful web services using Python REST API Framework.   • Developed Application to access JSON and XML from Restful, Webservices from consumer side using JavaScript and Angular.JS   Environment: Python, Django Web Framework, AWS, HTML, CSS, MySQL, JavaScript, jQuery, Sublime Text, Atom, PyCharm, Jira, GIT, pybuilder, unit test, Firebug, Web Services, HTML5/CSS, XML, JSON, Ajax    Skills  Django (10 years), HTML (10 years), jQuery. (8 years), MySQL (8 years), Python (8 years)    Additional Information  Technical Skills:     Programming Languages Python, C, C++, Java/J2EE, and PL/SQL, Perl, SQL   Markup languages HTML, JSON, XML   Protocols TCP/IP, HTTP/HTTPS, SOAP.   Programming methodologies Waterfall and Agile   Web Server Apache Webserver, IIS, HTTP server, Web Logic, JBoss  Defect Tracking JIRA, Bugzilla, and VersionOne   Cloud services AWS, VMware, and Microsoft Azure  Scripting JQuery, Java Script, AJAX, Shell scripting.   Operating systems Windows, UNIX, Linux (CentOS and Ubuntu)   Databases Oracle, MySQL, Apache Cassandra, MongoDB   Frameworks Django, Flask, Nodejs, Angular JS   Integration Tools Jenkins, IBM integration and Web Builder Work Experience Python Developer GILT GROUPE, INC - New York, NY May 2000 to Present Responsibilities:  • Search engine optimization by replacing existing database with MongoDB (NoSQL Database)  • Documented company Restful API's using Swagger for internal and third part use and also worked on Unit testing and Integration testing.  • Used Git for the version control.  • Created a Git repository and added the project to GitHub.  • Collaborated with internal teams and external teams to solve the issues and giving feedbacks.  • Worked on object-oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, Django and Linux.  • Used JIRA for bug tracking and issue tracking.  • Practical experience with working on multiple environments like development, testing, production.  • Documented the problems and progress of project most accurately.  • Created Python and Bash tools to increase efficiency of call center application system and operations; data conversion scripts, REST, JSON, and CRUD scripts for API Integration.  • Created a Python/Django based web application using Python scripting for data processing, MySQL for the database, and HTML/CSS/jQuery and High Charts for data visualization of the served pages.  • Built Python scripts to identify and correct erroneous data in PostgreSQL database using clustering, regression, and statistics  • Used standard Python modules e.g. csv, robot parser, itertools, pickle, jinja2, lxml for development.  • Worked extensively with Bootstrap, JavaScript, and jQuery to optimize the user experience.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content. Developed entire frontend and backend modules using PHP/ Python.  • Used Python Library Beautiful Soup for web scrapping to extract data for building graphs.  • Rewrite existing Java modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Handled all the client-side validation using JavaScript.  • Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting of web application.  • Design, develop, test, deploy and maintenance of the website  • Involved in the design, development and testing phases of application using AGILE methodology.  • Developed and designed an API (Restful Web Service)  • Used the Python language to develop web-based data retrieval systems.  • Designed and maintained databases using and developed Python based API (Restful Web Service)  • Designed and developed the user interface of the project with HTML, CSS and JavaScript  • Entire Front end and back end modules of the project are developed using Python with Django Framework.  • Developed web sites using Django, Python, XHTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Developed and designed e-mail marketing campaigns using HTML and CSS.  • Involved in analysis, specification, design, and implementation and testing phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and used agile methodology for developing application.  • Interacted with the client end-users during requirements gathering sessions  • Upgraded existing UI with HTML, CSS, jQuery and Bootstrap.  • Working as an application developer experienced with controllers, views and models in Django.  • Implemented Business logic, worked on data exchange, processed XML and HTML using python Worked in Agile development following Scrum process, Sprint and daily stand-up meetings  • Developed Views and Templates with Django view controller and template language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Worked on frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Implemented and enhanced CRUD operations for the applications using the MVT (Model View Template) architecture of Django framework and Python conducting code reviews.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Created APIs, database Model and Views Utilization Python in order to build responsive web page application.  • Wrote Python modules to extract/load asset data from the MySQL source database.  • Used GitHub for Python source code version control, Jenkins for automating the build Docker containers, and deploying in Mesos  • Designed and implemented a dedicated MySQL database server to drive the web apps and report on daily progress.  • Used PyUnit, the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications.  • Worked on Jenkins continuous integration tool for deployment of project.  • Automated the continuous integration and deployments using Jenkins, Docker, Ansible and AWS Cloud Templates.  • Participated in requirement gathering and worked closely with the architect in designing and modeling.  • Developed, tested and debugged software tools for clients and internal customers of the organization.  • Refactored existing batch jobs and migrated existing legacy extracts from Informatica to Python based micro services and deployed in AWS with minimal downtime.  • Coded test programs and evaluated existing engineering processes.  • 2.7 and its familiar framework Django  • Restful web services using Python REST API Framework.  • Developed Application to access JSON and XML from Restful, Webservices from consumer side using JavaScript and Angular.JS  Environment: Python, Django Web Framework, AWS, HTML, CSS, MySQL, JavaScript, jQuery, Sublime Text, Atom, PyCharm, Jira, GIT, pybuilder, unit test, Firebug, Web Services, HTML5/CSS, XML, JSON, Ajax Education Bachelor's Skills AJAX (10+ years), AWS (10+ years), DATABASES (10+ years), DJANGO (10+ years), HTML (10+ years), Python Additional Information Skills  Django (10 years), HTML (10 years), jQuery. (8 years), MySQL (8 years), Python (8 years)    Technical Skills:    Programming Languages Python, C, C++, Java/J2EE, and PL/SQL, Perl, SQL  Markup languages HTML, JSON, XML  Protocols TCP/IP, HTTP/HTTPS, SOAP.  Programming methodologies Waterfall and Agile  Web Server Apache Webserver, IIS, HTTP server, Web Logic, JBoss  Defect Tracking JIRA, Bugzilla, and VersionOne  Cloud services AWS, VMware, and Microsoft Azure  Scripting JQuery, Java Script, AJAX, Shell scripting.  Operating systems Windows, UNIX, Linux (CentOS and Ubuntu)  Databases Oracle, MySQL, Apache Cassandra, MongoDB  Frameworks Django, Flask, Nodejs, Angular JS  Integration Tools Jenkins, IBM integration and Web Builder