Senior Python Developer Senior <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Python Developer - Quicken Loans San Carlos, CA • 11+ years of experience as a Web Application Developer and coding with analytical programming using Python, Django, Flask.  • Experienced in Python modules such as numpy, matplotlib etc for generating complex graphical data, creation of histograms etc. Used Python scripts to update the content in database and manipulate files.  • Experience Object Oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, C++ and PHP.  • Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, Python/PHP) Architecture.  • Having diverse professional experience in planning, designing, developing, Architecting and implementation in Amazon Web Services Cloud, Python and IT industry.  • Experience with Requests, Pysftp, Gnupg, Reportlab, Numpy, SciPy, Matplotlib, HTTPLib2, Urllib2, Beautiful Soup and Pandas python libraries during development lifecycle.  • Strong expertise in development of web-based applications using Python, Django, Flask, Dojo, HTML, XML, Angular.JS, CSS, DHTML, JavaScript, JSON and jQuery.  • Worked on several python packages like Numpy, MatPlotLib, BeautifulSoup, Pickle, PySide, SciPy, wxPython, PyTables etc.  • Sound knowledge in spring, Hibernate, RDBMS, Web, XML, Ant/Maven, HTML, Python, Shell Scripting.  • Business logic implementation, data exchange, XML processing and graphics creation has been done using Python and Django.  • Proficient in front and back-end development with experience in Python, Django, AJAX, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap, jQuery, Angular2, Angular JS, Node JS and Express JS.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Flask, PHP, Django, XML, JSON, CSS, HTML, HTML5, JavaScript, AngularJS and jQuery.  • Experienced as a User Interface/Front End Developer in developing applications using HTML, HTML5, CSS, CSS3, JavaScript, DHTML, DOM, XHTML, jQuery, AngularJS and AJAX. Expert in UI development technologies such as JavaScript, CSS3, HTML5, GWT.  • Experience working with JavaScript MVC frameworks Backbone.js and AngularJS.  • Experience developing highly interactive web applications utilizing JavaScript, HTML5, CSS, JSON,AngularJS and Bootstrap and integrating Restful API's.  • Experience in developing both front end and back end applications using Java, J2EE, HTML, HTML5, CSS, CSS3,JavaScript, Angular.js, React JS, Spring MVC, Spring, Hibernate, Cloud Applications, Node.JS, SAAS, RWD, DOM, Gulp, Python, jQuery, and Ajax.  • Implemented Presentation layer using CSS Framework, React.JS, Wire-framing, and HTML5.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Used python scripts to parse XML and JSON reports and load the information in database.  • Involved in development of Python based Web Services using REST for sending and getting data from the external interface in the JSON format and perform analysis using Django, PostgreSQL.  • Experience in developing web services (WSDL, SOAP and REST) and consuming web services with python programming language. Work Experience Senior Python Developer Quicken Loans - San Carlos, CA August 2017 to Present Responsibilities  • Designed database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python to build an interactive web-based application.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, to build an interactive web-based solution.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture.  • Developed frontend and backend modules using Python on Django including Tasty Pie Web Framework using Git.  • Collect data that introspects the performance of query and update operations on a MongoDB instance.  • Developed Ruby/ Python scripts to monitor health of Mongo databases and perform ad-hoc backups using Mongo dump and Mongo restore.  • Worked in DevOps group running Jenkins in a Docker container with EC2 slaves in Amazon AWS cloud configuration. Also gained familiarity with supporting technologies like kubernetes and Mesos.  • Used regular expression for faster search results in combination with Angular2 built-in and custom pipes.  • Develop consumer-based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML, Behaviour Driven Development (BDD) and pair-based programming.  • Used Test driven approach for developing the application and Implemented the unit tests using Python Unit test framework and Development of Isomorphic ReactJS and Redux driven API client applications.  • Developed backend web services using Node.js and stored dependencies using Node Package Manager (NPM).  • Used jQuery and AJAX calls for transmitting JSON data objects between front end and controllers and Utilized continuous integration and automated deployments with Jenkins, Ansible and Docker.  • Used Amazon Elastic Beanstalk with Amazon EC2 to deploy project into AWS and good experience with AWS storage services (S3).  • Build Cassandra queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete, also used Bootstrap as a mechanism to manage and organize the html page layout.  • Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, Oracle DB, PostgreSQL, and VMWare API calls.  • Involved in development of Python based Web Services using REST for sending and getting data from the external interface in the JSON format and perform analysis using Django, PostgreSQL.  • Designed automation scripts to back up the old records by using Mongo DB export command and transferred the files into backup machine with the help of ftplib.  • Followed AGILE development methodology to develop the application.  • Developed Golang API and chat-bot using TDD to automate software deployments and rollbacks  • Used Test driven approach (TDD) for developing services required for the application.  • Managed datasets using Panda data frames and MYSQL. Queried the database queries using Python.  • Recorded the online users' data using Python Django forms and implemented test case using Pytest.  • Developed the application using the Test-Driven methodology and designed the unit tests using Python Unit test framework.    Environment: Python, GoLang, PyQuery, HTML5, CSS3, Angular js, Shell Scripting, JSON, Rest, Apache Web Server, Django, Celery, Flash, SQL, UNIX, Windows, PostgreSQL, and python libraries such as Numpy, SQL Alchemy, AWS Senior Python Developer Morgan Stanley - Philadelphia, PA April 2015 to July 2017 Responsibilities  • Designed database Model, Views and API's using Python for interactive web based solutions.  • Used data into JSON files using Python to test Django websites.  • Used Python scripts to update the content in database and manipulate files.  • Developed web based application using Django framework with python concepts.  • Generated Python Django forms to maintain the record of online users.  • Used Django API's to access the database.  • Worked on server side applications with Django using Python programming and used python libraries like Beautiful Soup, matplotlib, Scipy, NumPy and Built efficient Node.js backend for client web application.  • Developed tools to automate some base tasks using Python, Shell scripting and XML.  • Used PyQt to implement GUI for the user to create, modify and view reports based on client data.  • Developed efficient Angular.js for client web based application.  • Working in team of Architects and Developers to build and deploy Python Flask Peewee Linux AWS.  • Responsible for designing, developing, testing, deploying and maintaining the web application.  • Designed and developed the UI for the website with HTML, XHTML, CSS, Java Script and AJAX.  • Involved in working with Python open stock API's.  • Design, develop, and deploy engaging web applications using Python.  • Develop applications that use MongoDB database, and pymongo.  • Wrote Python code embedded with JSON and XML to produce HTTP GET request, parsing HTML data from websites.  • Wrote Python code to simplify lists in Python with list comprehension and Python OOP. Worked with POSTMAN for API testing. Developed REST APIs, and created User Model for application.  • Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) for improved efficiency of storage and fast access.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud. Involved in front end and utilized Bootstrap and Angular.js for page design.  • Created Data tables utilizing PyQt to display customer and policy information and add, delete, update customer records.  • Used Ruby and Ajax calls for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  • Experienced in using advanced PostgreSQL/MYSQL features like table partitioning and diverse types of oracle indexing. Backup and Restore experience with PostgreSQL/ MYSQL database backups and point in time recovery.  • Designed the user interactive web pages as the front-end part of the web application using various web technologies like HTML, JavaScript, Angular JS, jQuery and implemented CSS framework Bootstrap for better appearance and feel.  • Used Django Framework in developing web applications to implement the model view control architecture along with Django's ORM model.  • Developed RESTful web services for Catalog and Pricing with Django MVT, MySQL, and MongoDB.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery and Angular JS.    Environment: Python, Django, Tableau, soup, HTML5, CSS/CSS3, Bootstrap, XML, JSON, JavaScript, JQuery, Angular.JS, PostgreSQL, Flask, SciPy, Pandas, Numpy, Backbone JS, Restful Web services, Apache, Linux, Git, Amazon s3, Jenkins, MySQL, Mongo DB, T-SQL, Eclipse. Senior Python Developer General Electric Co - Boston, MA 2013 to March 2015 Responsibilities  • Designed database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python to build an interactive web-based application.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, to build an interactive web-based solution.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture.  • Developed frontend and backend modules using Python on Django including Tasty Pie Web Framework using Git.  • Collect data that introspect the performance of query and update operations on a MongoDB instance.  • Developed Ruby/ Python scripts to monitor health of Mongo databases and perform ad-hoc backups using Mongo dump and Mongo restore.  • Worked in DevOps group running Jenkins in a Docker container with EC2 slaves in Amazon AWS cloud configuration. Also gained familiarity with supporting technologies like kubernetes and Mesos.  • Used regular expression for faster search results in combination with Angular2 built-in and custom pipes.  • Develop consumer-based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML, Behaviour Driven Development (BDD) and pair-based programming.  • Used Test driven approach for developing the application and Implemented the unit tests using Python Unit test framework and Development of Isomorphic ReactJS and Redux driven API client applications.  • Developed backend web services using Node.js and stored dependencies using Node Package Manager (NPM).  • Used jQuery and AJAX calls for transmitting JSON data objects between front end and controllers and Utilized continuous integration and automated deployments with Jenkins, Ansible and Docker.  • Used Amazon Elastic Beanstalk with Amazon EC2 to deploy project into AWS and good experience with AWS storage services (S3).  • Build Cassandra queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete, also used Bootstrap as a mechanism to manage and organize the html page layout.  • Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, Oracle DB, PostgreSQL, and VMWare API calls.  • Involved in development of Python based Web Services using REST for sending and getting data from the external interface in the JSON format and perform analysis using Django, PostgreSQL.  • Designed automation scripts to back up the old records by using Mongo DB export command and transferred the files into backup machine with the help of ftplib.  • Followed AGILE development methodology to develop the application.  • Developed Golang API and chat-bot using TDD to automate software deployments and rollbacks  • Used Test driven approach (TDD) for developing services required for the application.  • Managed datasets using Panda data frames and MYSQL. Queried the database queries using Python.  • Recorded the online users' data using Python Django forms and implemented test case using Pytest.  • Developed the application using the Test-Driven methodology and designed the unit tests using Python Unit test framework.    Environment: Python, Django, HTML5, CSS, XML, MySQL, MongoDB, JavaScript, Angular JS, jQuery, CSS Bootstrap, Rabbit MQ, Celery, T-SQL, JavaScript, Eclipse, Git, GitHub Linux, Radis, Shell Scripting Senior Python Developer Novartis - Cambridge, MA April 2011 to October 2013 Responsibilities  • Designed Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators, and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Responsible for setting up Python REST API framework using Django.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Developed web applications in Django Framework model view control (MVC) architecture.  • Used Python to write data into JSON files for testing Django Websites. Created scripts for data modelling and data import and export.  • Used JQuery and Ajax calls for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web based solution.  • Thorough knowledge in various front end tools like HTML, CSS, JavaScript, XML, JQuery, Angularjs, and AJAX.  • Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  • Used object-relational mapper (ORM) to automate the transfer of data stored in relational databases tables into objects.  • Used Python based GUI components for the front-end functionality such as selection criteria.  • Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) for improved efficiency of storage and fast access.  • Added support for Amazon AWS and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Used PyQuery for selecting DOM elements when parsing HTML.  • Used Python libraries and SQL queries/subqueries to create several datasets which produced statistics, tables, figures, charts and graphs.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse JSON documents and load the data in database.  • Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  • Designed and maintained databases using Python and developed Python based API (RESTful Web Service) using Flask, SQL Alchemy and Postgre SQL.  • Designed and Developed User Interface using front-end technologies like HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS, Bootstrap and JSON.  • Created Django dashboard with custom look and feel for end user after a careful study of Django admin site and dashboard.  • Python Unit test library was used for the purpose of testing many programs on Python and other codes.  • Performed different testing methods like unit testing, Integration testing, web application testing and selenium testing.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using python.    Environment: Python, Django, Go language, Shell Scripting, AWS, Pandas, PyQt, PyQuery, Flash, DOM, JSON, PHP, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, Bootstrap, Apache Web Server, MYSQL, GitHub, LINUX, NoSql, MongoDB, MySQL, SOAP, REST, JQuery, Python Developer Verizon - New York, NY June 2009 to March 2011 Responsibilities  • Django Framework was used in developing web applications to implement the model view control architecture.  • Created entire application using Python, Django, MySQL and Linux.  • Developed the presentation layer using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery and AJAX.  • Used JQuery libraries for all client side JavaScript manipulations.  • Exposure on Multi-Threading factory to distribute learning process back-testing and the into various worker processes.  • Performed efficient delivery of code based on principles of Test Driven Development (TDD) and continuous integration to keep in line with Agile Software Methodology principles.  • Lock mechanisms were implemented and the functionality of multithreading has been used.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, OracleDB, PostgreSQL, and VMWare API calls.  • Extensively used python modules such as requests, urllib, urllib2 for web crawling.  • Used Pandas library for statistics Analysis & Numpy for Numerical analysis.  • Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  • Developed GUI using webapp2 for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of python code using a web browser.  • Responsible for user validations on client side as well as server side.  • Automated the existing scripts for performance calculations using Numpy and sqlalchemy.  • Interacted with QA to develop test plans from high-level design documentation    Environment: Python, Django, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, JQuery, webbapp, AJAX, MYSQL, Linux, Heroku, GIT, urllib, urllib2, OracleDB, PostgreSQL, and VMWare API. Python Developer American Express - New York, NY March 2007 to May 2009 Responsibilities  • Used Python, Django and Pyramid frameworks to develop applications and responsible for both back-end programming and front-end functionality using JavaScript, Ajax, Angular.JS, and other technologies.  • Built a new CI pipeline and performed testing and deployment automation with Docker, Jenkins, and Puppet.  • Redesigned and redeployed the Nagios implementation. Nodes automatically added/removed themselves via Puppet.  • Used AJAX for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers and wrote Python scripts to parse XML and JSON documents and load the data in database.  • Implemented RESTful Web-Services for sending and receiving the data between multiple systems.  • Implemented business logic using Python and used HTML, CSS, JavaScript and Implemented a Continuous Delivery pipeline with Docker, Jenkins and GitHub.  • Developed application service components and configured beans using Spring IoC, creation of Hibernate mapping files and generation of database schema.  • Implemented and enhanced CRUD operations for the applications using the MVT (Model View Template) architecture of Django framework and Python conducting code reviews.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript.  • Extensively worked on developing UI components using Angular JS and JSON to interact Restful web services.  • Designed and developed data management system using PostgreSQL and MySQL.  • Set up and maintain CI infrastructure to streamline build process, unit tests, functional tests, integration tests and artifacts deployments.  • Developed build and deployment scripts using Ant and Maven as build tools in Jenkins to move from one environment to other environments.  • Extensively worked on Application servers like WebLogic and Apache Tomcat.  • Used Ajax for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers and Worked on configuring TCP/IP, network interface, assigning static routes and hostnames.  • Developed many features for dashboard using Ruby on Rails, Bootstrap, CSS and JavaScript (J2EE)  • Used SVC version control system for maintain version of code & Used agile methodology.    Environment: Python, Django, Jenkins, Apache, XML, MySQL, MongoDB, REST, CSS, SASS, AJAX, HTML, Shell scripting, Sublime, XHTML, SVC. Education Master of Science in Computer Science Boston University Bachelor's Skills DJANGO (10+ years), JAVASCRIPT (10+ years), PYTHON (10+ years), MYSQL (10+ years), AJAX (10+ years) Additional Information • TECHNICAL SKILLS    Languages Python , Ruby, Scala, JavaScript, Java, C/C++,  Frameworks Django, pyramid, Flask, Spring, Hibernate, AngularJS.  Database MYSQL, PostgreSQL, MS SQL, MongoDB, SQLite, Oracle  Tools and Version Control GIT, SVN, CVS, DIMENSIONS, LAMP, WAMP, SVN, SSH  Software Management GIT, SVN, Maven, Gradle, CVS. AWS  Web Technologies HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, XML, Servlet, JSP, JSON, AJAX, SAAS  Operating Systems Windows, Macintosh, Linux  IDEs/tools PhpStrom, Notepad++, Sublime, NetBeans, Eclipse.  Web Services REST, SOAP, WSDL.  JavaScript Library JQuery, Angular JS, Bootstrap, Backbone.JS, Node.JS, Vue.JS, Ember.JS  Application Servers XAMPP, WAMP, Lamp, Apache Tomcat Server