Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - Vanguard Charlotte, NC • Over 12 years of experience as a Web/Application Developer and coding with analytical programming using Python, C++, Django, Java.  • Experience in object oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, C++.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, PHP, C++, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML and JavaScript.  • Extensively worked on Hudson and Jenkins for continuous integration and for End-to-End  • Experience in Python programming in application development over several years.  • Mastered implementing MVC architecture using Django for web based applications in OOP concepts like Multi-Threading, Exception Handling, and Collections.  • Experienced in working with various Python Integrated Development Environments (IDE) like PyCharm, IDLE, IPython Notebook, Anaconda, Spyder.  • Experienced in Python's modules like numpy, regular expressions, and OS modules.  • Experience with Design, code, and debug operations, reporting, data analysis and web applications utilizing Python and Django.  • Expertise in building database mapping classes using Django models.  • Good experience with cloud platforms like Amazon AWS.  • Have good exposure in LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python) Architecture.  • Experience in NoSQL databases like MongoDB and Apache Cassandra.  • Proficiency in writing SQL queries, tables, view, functions, triggers, stored procedures using relational databases like MySQL and Sqlite3.  • Working knowledge in multi-tiered distributed environment, OOAD concepts, good understanding of Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC)  • Developed Java/J2ee applications using Hibernate, XML, Android, XSLT, and Basic ASP.net applications including using Core Java concepts like OOPS, Multithreading, Garbage Collections, and Collection etc.  • Implemented AWS solutions using EC2, S3, EBS, Elastic Load Balancer (ELB), Auto scaling groups, Optimized volumes and EC2 instance.  • Experience in Implementation of MVC/ MVW architecture using Servlet, Django, and RESTful, SOAP web service and SOAPUI.  • Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache, Tomcat and Web Sphere.  • Extensively followed development methodologies such as Agile (SCRUM), Water Fall.  • Excellent Experience of Databases such as MySQL, Oracle 8g/9g/10g, Microsoft SQL Server, PostgreSQL, SQL/PLSQL concepts.  • Good Knowledge of using IDE Tools like Eclipse, NetBeans, Android Studio, Visual Studio, IDLE.  • Experience on Ruby Reg-Ex for pattern and Text matching.  • Good command on full life cycle application development.  • Designed and developed video and blogging website on PHP using Word Press on wamp server using MySQL database.  • Experience with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins.  • Developed ColdFusion Components, custom tags and modified CF Objects.  • Experience with Unit testing/ Test driven Development (TDD), Load Testing in JIRA, JENKIN.  • Replaced existing manual deployment and management processes with AWS OpsWork stacks.  • Wrote AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP- serializable JSON strings.  • Experience in Multi-Tier distributed Enterprise applications.  • Extensive experience in system analysis, design, development and implementation of web based and client/server application using HTML, Angular JS, Bootstrap, underscore JS, Node JS, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, JSP, JDBC, XML, XSLT, Python, Django, PHP.  • Experience in Multi-Tier distributed Enterprise applications.  • Proficient in SQL databases MS SQL, MySQL, Oracle and no-SQL databases MongoDB and Cassandra.  • Experience with Unit testing/ Test driven Development (TDD), Load Testing.  • Highly motivated, dedicated, quick learner and have proven ability to build and manage a team and work individually Work Experience Sr. Python Developer Vanguard - Charlotte, NC January 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Working on VAMS (Vulnerability Assessment and Management System)  • Involved in designing application system requirements and coded back-end and front-end in Django/ Python.  • Created Jenkins Jobs to automate Ant/Maven Application Builds by pulling code from GIT and GitHub repositories.  • Technical support for OOPS.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Worked very closely with designer, tightly integrating Flash into the CMS with the use of Flashvars stored in the Django models. Also, created XML with Django to be used by the Flash.  • Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users.  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation.  • Implemented a continuous Delivery Pipeline with Docker, Jenkins and GitHub to build a new Docker container automatically using Jenkins whenever a new GitHub branches are created.  • Developed Python/Django application for Google Analytics aggregation and reporting.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Used Django Framework for developing web applications using model view control architecture.  • Worked on oops alv using the custom container in Module Pool, used the report-programming through oops concepts, oops classes.  • Experience using Docker to implement a high level API to provide lightweight containers that run processes isolation and worked on creation of customized Docker container images, tagged and pushed the images to the Docker repository.  • Implemented Continuous Integration and deployment using various CI Tools like Jenkins, Chef and Puppet.  • Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, Oracle DB and VMWare API calls.  • Used AWS cloud services to launch Linux and windows machines, created security groups and written basic PowerShell scripts to take backups and mount network shared drives.  • Implemented configuration changes for data models.  • Worked with Chef Enterprise Hosted as well as On-Premise, Installed Workstation.  • Performed efficient delivery of code based on principles of Test Driven Development (TDD) and continuous integration to keep in line with Agile Software Methodology principles.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Design and implemented custom scripts. Extensive use of version controller Team Foundation Server (TFS)  • Wrote Python scripts to parse config files.  • Wrote Ansible Playbooks with Python SSH as the Wrapper to Manage Configurations of AWS Nodes and Test Playbooks on AWS instances using Python. Run Ansible Scripts to provision Dev servers.  • Participated in Scrum-related team activities, i.e., daily standup, sprint planning, etc.  • Involved in code reviews and bug tracking on Jira.  • Experience with Jira, Stash, Confluence.  • Followed Google Python Coding Style and PEP-8 while working with various teams.  Environment: Python 2.7, Oops, Django 1.7, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, MySQL, JIRA, SQLite, Bootstrap, Virtualenv, pip, SVN, RESTful and Windows 7. Python Developer Wal-Mart - Irving, TX October 2015 to December 2016 Responsibilities:  • Map Reduce jobs in Python for data cleaning and data processing.  • Used different type of transformations and actions in apache Spark.  • Experience in writing custom User Defined Functions (UDF) in Python for Hadoop (Hive and Pig)  • Used Spark cluster to manipulate RDD's (resilient distributed datasets)  • And also used concepts of RDD partitions.  • Connecting my SQL database through Spark driver.  • Bootstrapped Nodes, Wrote Recipes and Cookbooks and uploaded them to Chef-server.  • Used matplotlib module for easy data visualization.  • Responsible for providing on time delivery of standard developments i.e. ABAP Reports, ABAP OOPS, Smart forms, Workflow, DDIC Objects.  • Develop applications that use MongoDB database and PyMongo.  • Integrating multiple databases and data sources in to one system.  • Wrote Python modules to extract/load asset data from the MySQL source database.  • Managed code versioning with GitHub, Bit Bucket and deployment to staging and production servers.  • Implemented MVC architecture in developing the web application with the help of Django framework.  • Used Celery as task queue and RabbitMQ as messaging broker to execute asynchronous tasks.  • Working under UNIX environment in development of application using Python and familiar with all of its commands.  • Developed remote integration with third party platforms by using RESTful web services.  • Used many regular expressions in order to match the pattern with the existing one and store them in data base on a chronological basis.  • Worked under DEVOPS environment for continuous integration and continuous deployment using Jenkins and puppet.  • Configured and deployed project using the Amazon EC2 on AWS.  • Deployment of the web application using the Ubuntu server.  Environment: Python, oops, Django, HTML5, CSS, XML, KML, SQL, AWS, JavaScript, Git Hub, Angular JS, JQuery, CSS Bootstrap, RESTful, MS SQL Server, Ubuntu server, Windows 12 Server, Amazon s3, Jenkins, Map Box, SQL, Mongo DB, GitHub, Bit Bucket, Linux, and Windows. Python Developer Evolent Health - Arlington, VA August 2014 to September 2015 Responsibilities:  • Participate in requirement gathering and analysis phase of the project in documenting the business requirements by conducting workshops/meetings with various business users.  • Worked with team of developers on Python applications for RISK management.  • Worked on Python Open stack API's.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL DB package.  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures on MYSQL.  • Implemented and maintained the monitoring and alerting of production and corporate servers/storage using AWS Cloud watch.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  Environment: Amazon AWS S3, MySQL, HTML, Python 2.7, Django 1.8, HTML5, CSS, XML, MySQL, MS SQL Server, JavaScript, AWS, Linux, Shell Scripting, AJAX, Cassandra. Python Developer Intuit - San Diego, CA July 2013 to August 2014 Responsibilities:  • Managed over 80 domains, and develop the project use Django.  • Wrote scripts in Python for extracting data from HTML file.  • Used GitHub to maintain sync with entire team of developers.  • Used Django APIs for database access.  • Participated in requirement gathering and worked closely with the architect in designing and modelling.  • Strong exposure to automation test tool - QTP and Good Knowledge in working with Test Management tool - QC, OOPS, Java Basics.  • Worked on Csv files while trying to get input from the MySQL database.  • Successfully migrated Django database from SQLite to MySQL with complete data integrity.  • Responsible for setting up Python REST API framework using DJANGO.  • Extensive experience in working with AngularJS to implement Single page applications (SPAs) using Directives, modules, Expressions, Routers, views, model, SQL and Controller.  • Developed dynamic web pages using python Django Frameworks.  • Used Python for Socket programming, creating graphics, XML processing and networking.  • Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users.  Environment: Python, Oops, Django Framework, JQuery, JavaScript, AJAX, HTML5/XHTML, CSS3, XML. Python Developer Four Soft Ltd - Hyderabad, Telangana November 2008 to April 2012 Responsibilities:  • Used SDLC process and used PHP to develop website functionality.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, NodeJS, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework on MySQL.  • Used Django APIs for database access.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL. Built application logic using Python 2.7.  • Used Python to extract weekly hotel availability information from XML files using underscore JS. Parsed XML file using Python to extract data from database.  • Participated in requirement gathering and worked closely with the architect in designing and modeling. Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures, trigger and function on MYSQL.  • Designed and developed a horizontally scalable APIs using Python Flask.  • Designed Cassandra schema for the APIs.  • Java implementation on given project.  • Developed shopping cart for Library and integrated web services to access the payment.  • Used Php language on lamp server to develop page.  • Developed dynamic interaction page on .net MS visual basic 2014, using SQL developer tools.  Environment: Python 2.6/2.7, Oops, JavaScript, Django Framework 1.3, SQL, MySQL, LAMP, JQuery, Adobe Dreamweaver, Apache web server, PHP, Lamp, underscore JS. SQL developer tool. Java Developer Visakhapatnam, Andhra Pradesh June 2006 to October 2008 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Design, Development and Support phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) . Used agile methodology and participated in Scrum meetings.  • Developed the application using Spring Framework that leverages Model View Layer (MVC) architecture UML diagrams like use cases, class diagrams, interaction diagrams (sequence and collaboration) and activity diagrams were used.  • Data from UI layer sent through JMS to Middle layer and from there using MDB message retrieves Messages and will be sent to MQSeries.  • Used JSON as response type in REST services.  • Used RESTFUL client to interact with the services by providing the RESTFUL URL mapping.  • Performed unit testing using JUnit.  • Understand all the fundamental concepts of OOPs and all the core java topics successfully.  • Provided direction and support for technical architecture with respect to performance, business continuity and seamless integration/functioning of applications, databases, servers, networks.  • Managed, administered and maintain more than 100 Oracle databases.  Environment: Java SE 6, Servlets, XML, HTML, JavaScript, JSP, Hibernate, Oracle 11g, SQL Navigator. Education Master in Computer Science in Computer Science Oklahoma Christian University Skills database (8 years), Django (8 years), HTML (9 years), MySQL (8 years), XML (10+ years) Additional Information Technical Skills:  Frameworks: Django, Flask, Zope, PyJamas, Jython, CSS Bootstrap  Web Technologies: HTML, CSS, DOM, SAX, Java Script, JQuery, AJAX, XML, Angular JS.  Programming Languages:  Python and C with Oops concept, Python 2, Python 3, PHP 4, PHP 5, Java Scripting, Perl/CGI, ColdFusion, KORN Shell Scripting, Jython    Version Control: SVN, CVS, Git, GitHub, Bitbucket  Analytic Tools: JMP PRO, SAS, Tableau, UCI NET, Node XL  Application servers: Apache Tomcat, JBoss, WebLogic, WebSphere  Database: MySQL, MSSQL, PostgreSQL, Oracle, SQLite  IDE's/ Development Tools: NetBeans, Eclipse, PyCharm, PyScripter, PyStudio and Sublime Text  Protocols: TCP/IP, HTTP/HTTPS, SOAP, SMTP    Operating Systems: Windows, Red hat Linux 4.x/5.x/6.x, Ubuntu.  Document Processing: MS PowerPoint, MS Visio, MS Excel.  Deployment Tools: Heroku, Amazon EC2, Lambda