Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - Citigroup Inc Boston, MA I have 8+ years of IT experience experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Management and Implementation of various stand-alone, client-server enterprise applications in Python on various domains.    • Good experience in developing web applications implementing Model View Control architecture using Django web application frameworks.  • Experienced in working with various Python IDE's using PyCharm, PyScripter, Spyder, PyStudio and PyDev. Extensive Knowledge of HTML, JavaScript, CSS, AngularJS and JQuery.  • Implemented different python libraries BeautifulSoup, numpy, PyMQI, scipy, pytables, matplotlib, memcache, PySide, Pandas data frame, PyQtGraph and urllib2 in various tasks.  • Good experience in Python, Django, Shell Scripting, SQL Server, Unix and Linux.  • Developed web applications and Restful web services and APIs using Python, Flask, and Django.  • Built custom UI Widgets and Application logic using OOD and MVC architecture. Useful learning of web services with protocols SOAP, REST. Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA.  • Worked on changes to openstack and AWS to accommodate large-scale data center deployment.  • Knowledge of ORM mapping using SQLALCHEMY. Expertise in Object-Oriented design and coding.  • Experienced in writing SQL Queries, Stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, triggers.  • Analyzed and handled large datasets using Oracle Relational database. Skilled in debugging/troubleshooting issues in complex applications. Developed Build Scripts to fortify certain Applications using Ant and Maven.  • Have good idea about development tools like Bugzilla, Jira, Confluence, Ax soft. Have good knowledge on NoSQL databases like Cassandra, MongoDB. Worked on SQL databases like MYSQL, NOSQL, PostgreSQL and Oracle.  • Experience with Unit testing, Test driven Development (TDD), Load testing, Integration testing, User acceptance testing, Functional testing and STB testing. Extensive use of version controlling systems like GIT and SVN. Handled potential points of failure through error handling and communication of failure  • Experience of dealing with various development methodologies like Waterfall, Scrum, and Agile.  • Worked on JIRA for bug tracking and communicating for better results Strong Experience in Big data technologies including Apache Spark, Hadoop, HDFS, Hive, MongoDB.  • Experience of using Python modules like NumPy, Matplotlib, Pickle, Pandas, SciPy, wxPython, PyTables, PyQt, etc., for generating complex graphical data, creation of histograms, etc.  • Excellent analytical and problem-solving skills and ability to work on own besides being a valuable and contributing team player. Work Experience Sr. Python Developer Citigroup Inc - Boston, MA, US May 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Designing, developing and managing REST APIs utilizing Django's Rest framework and overlooking the API system.  • Responsible for developing an automated system to identify redundant server instances with the same session IDs and mark them for deletion, thereby freeing the memory by a significant amount at times.  • Development of web applications using Python frameworks as Django.  • Successful migration of the default Django's database (SQLite) to PostgreSQL to improve efficiency, integrity and security of data.  • Involved in database-driven web application development using a variety of frameworks such as Django on Python.  • Worked on PostgreSQL development (tables, views, joins) and migrations from SQLite databases preserving the integrity.  • Preparing documentation as per organizational standards, designing, implementing, and maintaining complex database applications.  • Worked on SSIS and created SSIS Jobs and scheduled Packages using SQL Server Management Studio for Daily Load.  • Developed SQL and PL/SQL scripts to transfer tables across the schemas and databases.  • Worked on complex datasets including Python's native lists, dictionaries and tuples.  • Designed & developed templates using Django's template library and utilized them using Django's forms library. Extensive Knowledge on JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python and was responsible for search engine optimization to improve the visibility of the website.  • Used version control systems such as Git and Apache SVN for maintaining a consistent state throughout the application development process.  • Effectively followed Scrum along with Test-Driven Development to develop applications, services and software solutions. Having Good Experience in Object Oriented Concepts with C# and Python.  • Having experienced in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL, PL/SQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Basic knowledge on Rest API and JSON Parsing, jQuery and Angular JS  • Experience in building frameworks in Python for Test Automation.  • Excellent Experience in Code Refactoring and Udeploy. Solid ability to code in JavaScript.  • Thorough knowledge in various front-end tools like HTML, JavaScript, XML, jQuery and AJAX.  • Experience in Bash Shell Scripting, SQL and Java Full stack web development using Python.  • Extensive experience in using Python/Perl to code and design various phases for data processing pipeline.  • Experienced on Installation, Integration and Configuration of third party tools, Content Management System (CODEIGNITER, Zend, Laravel, Smarty).  • Good knowledge on IBM WebSphere Application Deployment and maintenance of an application on Application Server using clusters concept and IBM Tivoli Monitoring.  • Good knowledge in various phases of SDLC Requirement Analysis, Design, Development and Testing on various Development and Enhancement Projects.  • Experienced in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM process including Sprint planning, backlog grooming, Daily Standups, Code review, Pert Chart, Gant Chart.    Environment:  Python, Django, Django-cms, Django-cms plugins HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap Javascript, JQuery, AJAX, JSON, Web Framework, MongoDB, Agile, Eclipse, Weblogic, GitHub, Junit, UML, JSP, Xml, SOA, MYSQL, Linux/Unix, Jira, Git. Sr. Python Developer Loan Depot - Austin, TX, US November 2015 to April 2017 Responsibilities:  • Extensive working knowledge in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Wrote Python routines to log into the websites and fetch data for selected options.  • Performed Design, involved in code reviews and wrote unit tests in Python.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met. Worked on PowerShell Scripting.  • Worked on HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AngularJS, Node.JS, Git, REST API, intellij IDEA.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface. Created data access modules in python.  • Used JQuery and Ajax calls for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  • Utilized PyQt to provide GUI for the user to create, modify and view reports based on client data.  • Utilized PyUnit, the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications.  • Used SOAP UI tool to test the REST web service operations.  • Created complex SQL scripts in validating source with target tables and preparing business report data as per business Needs. Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis.  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents. Created a Git repository and added the project to GitHub.  • Worked on JSon based REST Web services. Updated site with JavaScript, JQuery, Python, Django, and SQL. Worked on version control using GITHub.  • Utilized Agile process and JIRA issue management to track sprint cycles.  • Developed tools using python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Working in team of Architects and Developers to build and deploy python Flask Peewee Linux AWS.  • Involved in writing stored procedures using MySQL.  • Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment. Development of real-time multi-tasking systems using Python.  • Responsible for Design and maintenance of databases using Python. Developed Python based APIs by using Flask, SQL Alchemy and PostgreSQL.  • Designed, developed, implemented, and maintained solutions for using Git and GitHub for microservice and continuous deployment.  • Developed tools using python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Developed Business Logic using pythonon Django Web Framework.    Environment:  Python, Django, PyQt, PyQuery, , HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Angular.js, Bootstrap, Apache Web Server, AJAX, JSON, DOM, MYSQL, GitHub, LINUX, Shell Scripting, MYSQL, AWS. Python/ Django Developer Chevron Corp - Seattle, WA, US November 2014 to October 2015 Responsibilities:  • Designed Python/Django based web application, PostgreSQL DB, and integrations with 3rd party email, messaging, storage services.  • Developed web applications in Django Framework's model view control (MVC) architecture.  • Worked on Multi-Threading factory to distribute learning process back-testing and into various worker processes.  • Performed efficient delivery of code based on principles of Test Driven Development (TDD) and continuous integration to keep in line with Agile Software Methodology principles.  • Followed different testing methodologies like unit testing, Integration testing, and web application testing.  • Developed, designed and deployed Matrix and Tabular reports with drill down and drill through features using SSRS in Business Intelligence Development Studio (BIDS) as per client requirements.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash  • Design and implemented custom scripts.  • Develop consumer based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML and Test Driven Development (TDD)  • Rewrote existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Responsible for tracking and monitoring project status in JIRA (Agile)  • Developed Python web services for processing JSON and interfacing with the Data layer.  • Worked on deployment of project on to Amazon S3.  • Used GIT version control.  • Designing & deployment of Hadoop cluster and different Big Data analytic tools including Hive, Spark.  • Used collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different your defined objects.  • Improved performance by using more modularized approach and using more in built methods.  • Collaborated with internal teams to convert end user feedback into meaningful and improved solutions.  • Performed data manipulation/storage for incoming test data using lxml /etree libraries.  • Embedded AJAX in UI to update small portions of the web page avoiding the need to reload the entire page.  • Wrote unit test cases for testing tools.  • Enhanced existing automated solutions, such as the Inquiry Tool for automated Asset Department reporting and added new features and fixed bugs.  • Developed views and templates with python3.6.1 and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) for improved efficiency of storage and fast access.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Participated in the complete SDLC process and used PHP to develop website functionality.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS, BIG DATA and JavaScript.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using pythonon Django Web Framework.  • Designed and developed Use-Case, Class and Object Diagrams using UML Rational Rose for Object Oriented Analysis/Object Oriented Design techniques.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL. Built application logic using python.  • Used Django APIs for database access.  • Provided GUI utilizing PyQt for the end user to create, modify and view reports based on client data.    Environment:  Python, Django, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, JQuery, JavaScript, Apache, Behave, Puppet Rspec, Jenkins, Azure, MySQL, Git, Perl, Cassandra, SQL, MYSQL, Linux/Unix. Python/ Django Developer Liberty Mutual - Columbus, OH, US May 2013 to October 2014 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Worked on creating Python API's  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web-based solution.  • Designed and managed API system deployment.  • Developed Python batch processors to consume and produce various feeds.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Developed Business Logic using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Created database objects like procedures, functions, triggers and indexes.  • Worked with various SSIS control flow tasks and data transformation tasks like data conversion, derived column, look-up, and fuzzy look-up, conditional split etc.  • Created checkpoints and configuration files in SSIS packages  • Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL with complete data integrity.  • Participated in the complete SDLC process.  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile).  • Used JQuery for all client-side Java script manipulation.  • Created unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  • Implemented multiple high-performance MongoDB replica sets on EC2 with robust reliability.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules usingPythonon Django Web Framework.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Worked on developing a website for a power company. Used to get energy consumption from various customers to store it into a database. Load the data from database to display on customer accounts. Wrote various python modules to perform back-end operations on the data. Developed graphical interface for users to display in their accounts.  • Used Python's pandas and matplotlib libraries to conduct data exploration and visualization of electricity consumption data.  • Created Python scripts for analyzing large quantities of data.  • Created checkpoints and configuration files in SSIS packages.  • Extensively used merge command as alternative to small SSIS packages in dimension and fact load.  • Design and implemented custom Bash scripts for controlling the data flow from the PostgreSQL database.  • Assisted the development team in sending the correct data via query strings using PostgreSQL as the back-end for storing data.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Responsible for configuring NoSQL databases like Apache Cassandra and Mongo DB to for increasing compatibility with Django.  • Designed and created backend data access modules using PL/SQL stored procedures.  • Wrote SQL Queries and implementing stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, cursors, triggers.  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many bug fixes for applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  • Handled potential points of failure through error handling and communication of failure.  • Risk analysis for potential points of failure (database, communication points and file system errors).    Environment:  Python, Django, PyQuery, PyQt, HTML, CSS, Flashvars, PyUnit, , PHP, DOM, REST, AJAX, JQuery, AWS, GitHub, agile, SQL, MYSQL, Linux/Unix. Python Developer Verizon - Palo Alto, CA, US May 2011 to April 2013 Responsibilities:  • Developed the UI using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python.  • Responsible for search engine optimization to improve the visibility of the website.  • Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  • Designed and developed the presentation layer/client end using HTML, XML, DHTML and JSP.  • Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  • Wrote validation scripts in SQL to validate data loading.  • Worked on Payment Processing which involves monitoring payments and provide required solutions.  • Implementation of client side validations using JQuery, Angular JS and ASP.NET MVC Validation implemented at Controller level.  • Performed Scalable Computing and data analytics of big data.  • Designed and developed various abstract classes, interfaces, classes to construct the business logic using C# .NET.  • Experience with Python Libraries such as HTTPLib2, Urllib.  • Used GitHub for Version Control System and deployed the project code into Heroku.  • Worked on XML documents based on XML Schema definition (XSD) with python scripts to load the data to database.  • Expert in using developmental tools such as Eclipse, PyCharm and Sublime Text, version control tools like Git and Apache SVN.  • Experience in developing and consuming Web Services using WSDL, SOAP, HTTP, and UDDI.  • Good knowledge in RESTful web services.  • Experience in adopting security best practices during development and production.  • Experience in testing and debugging applications using PyUnit, PyTest and JUnit frameworks.  • Experience in writing test cases from the requirements and also, writing various test scripts for the applications.  • Experience working in a Test-Driven Development environment and software development lifecycles such as Waterfall and Agile (Scrum).  • Experience in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.    Environment:  Python, Django, HTML, CSS, Ruby, JIRA, AJAX, JQuery, JavaScript, AWS, MySQL, Apache, XML, Git, MYSQL, Linux. Software Developer Amazon Inc - Chicago, IL, US May 2009 to April 2011 Responsibilities:  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Rewrite existing Java, C++ application in Python.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using python.  • Created unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  • Made Django web based apps for Insurance premium calculations.  • Designed the architecture of the hardware environments and methodology of the code.  • Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis.  • Used Numpy for Numerical analysis for Insurance premium.  • Used Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Experience in working with different python packages like Pandas, BeautifulSoup, Numpy, Matplotlib, SciPy.  • Wrote Python routines to log into the websites and fetch data for selected options.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL and optimized the database queries to improve the performance.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Participated actively in unit testing, integration testing and GUI.  • Used Python twitter library for fetching the twitter feeds for some important keywords.  • Implemented Django models to build all database mapping classes and used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  Environment:  Python, Django, PyQt, PyQuery, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Angular.js, Bootstrap , Shell Scripting, AWS, Flash, DOM, JSON, , AJAX, , Apache Web Server, MYSQL, GitHub, LINUX. Education Master of Science and Engineering in Science and Engineering University of Delaware Skills DJANGO (9 years), PYTHON (9 years), XML (8 years), LINUX (9 years), AJAX (9 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:    Languages: Python, Java, PHP, Ruby.  Scripting Languages: CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, JQuery, Typescript  Python Libraries: ReportLab, Numpy, Scipy.  Markup Languages: HTML, XML, JSON.  Databases: SQLite, PostgreSQL, MongoDB, OracleDB  Framework: Django, Flask, Node JS , Angular JS  Testing Tool: JIRA  Protocols: TCP/IP, HTTP/HTTPS  Operating System: Linux, Ubuntu, MacOS, Windows  Tools & IDE: PyCharm, Sublime Text, Visual Studio Code, Eclipse.