Developer <span class="hl">Developer</span> Developer - CGI • Having 2+ years of experience as Python Developer and coding with analytical programming using Python.  • Expert in PL SQL and Unix, with knowledge of python.  • Experience in using stored procedures and views.  • Experience object oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python and java.  • Experience using Web Services and API's in python.  • Basic understanding of front-end technologies such as JavaScript, HTML, CSS.  • Able to create database schemas that represent and support business processes.  • Hands on Experience on MYSQL and Oracle.  • Good Exposure on SQL.  • Good knowledge in maintaining various version control system such as GIT.  • Experienced with full software development life-cycle, architecting scalable platforms, object oriented programming, database design and agile methodologies.  • Experienced in working with various Python Integrated Development Environments like IDLE, PyCharm, Eclipse.  • Hands on Experience in designing and developing Android applications using IDE (Android Studio).  • Hands-on experience in writing and reviewing requirements, architecture documents, test plans, design and maintaining documents, quality analysis and helping with the software release process.  • Actively involved in participation of regular project meetings to discuss the risks involved in ongoing projects with team.  • Learn quickly and adapt quickly to any new situation/changes and work pro-actively towards meeting deadlines is my forte. Work Experience Developer CGI December 2017 to Present Description:  File converter is a tool which will convert files from one format to another. For example we can convert json file to csv using this tool. This tool supports CSV, JSON, XML formats. We can upload source file, convert it to specific format and download it.    Responsibilities:  • Developed backend scripts to convert files from one format to other.  • Developed the entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Developed the project in Linux environment.  • Developed scripts to upload and download and download files from the tool.  • Tested functionalities of the project.  • Familiar with file conversions by importing modules xml, json, csv.  • Converting python dictionary objects to json and parsing.  • Trouble shooting/Bug fixing.    Project #2:    Project name: Automation Test Monitoring System  Client: CGI  Role: Developer Python Developer CGI - Bangalore, KARNATAKA, IN August 2016 to Present Technical Skills:  Languages: Python, PL SQL, Core Java.  IDE: PyCharm  Databases: Oracle 11g, MySQL  Web designing: HTML, JavaScript, CSS  Python Web Framework: Django Education B.Com Acharya Nagarjuna University S.S.C Sri Chaitanya Junior College Additional Information Technologies: Python, HTML, JS  Framework: Django  Duration: Nov 2016 - Oct 2017    Description:    It is a tool which will show all automation test results in one place. We can see all Device, Test Engine and other elements details, log details, number of test cases pass/fail based on release/feature. We can send reports from this tool via Email.    Responsibilities:    • Developing the end to end scripts as per the client requirements.  • Developed UI using Python and Django.  • Designing and coding web pages using HTML, JS.  • Wrote backed python scripts to collect test results and logs.  • Developed script to upload robot results to MySQL DB.  • Tested functionalities of the project.  • Trouble shooting/Bug fixing.