IT and Operations IT and Operations Software Developer Houston, TX Work Experience IT and Operations US China Innovation Alliance - Houston, TX November 2018 to Present • Build IT infrastructure  • Design WordPress sites and maintain them  • SEO Marketing, use Google Adwards and Google Analytics Software Developer Melax Technologies Inc - Houston, TX April 2018 to October 2018 * Responsible for building the search part of the natural language processing application website using Elasticsearch, adding features of indexing files and searching for medical records with multiple key words.  * Performed functional testing for the new version of CLAMP toolkit and created test plans used with each cycle. Made recommendations for software improvements based on user requirements. Applications Developer Internship, i360 llc Koch Industries subsidiary - Arlington, VA June 2017 to August 2017 * Created an internal used web application for political campaign data management. Implemented a dynamic monitoring frame for servers and databases with .NET and jQuery.  * Used T-SQL to eliminate invalid data for the survey analytics website, reduced database redundancy by 20%. Python Project - Student Incident Tracking System school project - College Park, MD April 2017 to May 2017 * Developed a student incident tracking system for counselors to get incident records and monitor closely to student issues using Django framework (PyCharm).  * Designed, tested and configured database (MySQL workbench) and connected to AWS.  * Resolved ongoing problems and accurately documented progress of Python project. Data Analyst Intern Siemens AG - Beijing September 2015 to March 2016 Sorted out client information by Excel and updated on Oracle Eloqua. Conducted market research and sent advertising campaign to potential customers. Analyzed campaign reports weekly and achieved an increase on customer count by 17%.  Used web marketing tool to produce the monthly electronic magazine: Horizon of Siemens. Distributed online invitations to inform customers about important upcoming events and new product exhibitions.  Education Master of Science in Information Systems in Information Systems University of Maryland, Robert H. Smith School of Business, College Park, MD 2016 to 2017 Bachelor of Management in Management Information Systems University of International Business and Economics - Beijing, CN 2012 to 2016 Skills Excel, Python, R, HTML 5, CSS, CRM, .NET, Javascript, Java, Tableau, Agile, Photoshop, PHP, Wordpress, AWS, Git, SQL, SAP