Developer, Software Team <span class="hl">Developer</span>, Software Team Developer, Software Team - Purdue University West Lafayette, IN To obtain an internship in Summer 2019 in the fields of Computer or Software Engineering. Work Experience Developer, Software Team Purdue University October 2017 to Present * Identified, and researched current gaps in hearing aids and other audio assistive devices.  * Brainstormed a solution that uses vibration to provide a feedback upon adjustable and selective audio reception.  * Assessed the limitations of the solution and performed patent searches to ensure ingenuity.  * Prototyped models using Arduino Micro to assist the team's design efforts. Program Manager Purdue University July 2017 to Present * Strategized marketing plans to promote ISPC and its Fall events to incoming freshmen.  * Mentored and onboarded new members into ISPC platforms and motivated the team to create new content for workshops.  * Designed workshops to provide more in-depth information and insight to increase students' knowledge and skills. Python Developer and Product Management Intern, Globalization Services SAP Labs LLC - Palo Alto, CA June 2018 to August 2018 * Composed data preparation requirements needed to train SAP's Law-to-Action Machine Learning models through collaboration with senior developers and product managers.  * Examined legal authority's websites to identify suitable CSS selectors that comprise of tax code changes and extracted the required documents using a web crawler.  * Expanded the utility of the Law-to-Action product by developing an email parser to extract content from email bodies and attachments of newsletters using python packages such as NLTK, BeautifulSoup4, and imaplib.  * Developed a web application using Flask to export the email parser to SAP's product managers to access the solution for data  preparation and training.  Academic and Team Experience Member, Electrical, and Software Team Purdue Aerial Robotics Club February 2017 to February 2018 * Analyzed computer vision systems to determine a suitable model for remote sensing via payload sensors.  * Integrated software and mathematical models to guide the unmanned aerial system (UAS) in object detection.  * Created image-processing algorithms for object orientation identification using C++ and OpenCV.  * Evaluated a machine learning implementation that assists in character recognition and image processing. Developer and UI Designer, MYOnaisse Purdue Aerial Robotics Club - Madison, WI September 2017 to September 2017 * Researched about the redundancies and lapses in physiotherapy for wrist and arm recovery.  * Explored potential technological solutions that would make physiotherapy an enticing option for patients.  * Utilized orientation data from the onboard sensors of the MYO armband to allow custom gestures and created an interactive  gaming rehabilitation system.  * Awarded 'The Most Objectively Human Application Award' and 'Hacker's Choice'.  Leadership Experience Team Leader Purdue University August 2017 to August 2017 * Supervised and guided a team of 27 international and domestic students through Purdue's orientation program.  * Facilitated cross-cultural learning between the international and domestic students.  * Adapted to cultural norms to better mentor incoming international freshmen. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Engineering in Computer Engineering Purdue University - West Lafayette, IN August 2016 to December 2019 Skills HTML, PYTHON (Less than 1 year), FLASK (Less than 1 year), CSS (Less than 1 year) Links https://github.com/RahulK1998 https://www.linkedin.com/in/rahul-kartick Additional Information Technical Skills  Proficient: C, Python, Web development with Flask, LTSpice, Excel  Familiar: Bash(Linux), Microcontrollers, MongoDB, MYSQL, HTML, CSS, MATLAB, HDL coding (system Verilog, and Abel)  Relevant Courses: Data Structures (ECE 368), Systems and Signals (ECE301), Electrical Analysis and Design (ECE255), Electrical  Devices and Design(ECE208), Microprocessor Systems and Interfacing (ECE362)