Python Rating Engine Developer Intern <span class="hl">Python</span> Rating Engine <span class="hl">Developer</span> Intern Boston, MA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Rating Engine Developer Intern Homesite - Boston, MA 2018 to 2018 Technologies: Python, Redis, MySQL, SAS, MS Word, MS Excel  Championed rating engine operations with automation of basic rates and nationwide procedural excellence.  * Effectively synchronized data and grew performance rating 78% with innovative key/value pairs and processing architecture. Software Engineer Intern (Android) Incluvie - Boston, MA 2018 to 2018 Technologies: Firebase, Java, React  Executed full life cycle development of an Android application for company website complete with Firebase authentication, real-time database, cloud, storage, and TMDB/YouTube API.  * Strategized movie information processing, presenting method, and rating system to highlight racial content and diversity. Graduate Research Assistant Boston University - Boston, MA 2018 to 2018 Technologies: Android, Java, Logistic Regression, Neural Network  Supported Professor Yuting Zhang in the comprehensive creation of Isolation Alert, an Android application purposed to retrieve social application usage, location, and audio to evaluate user activities. Employed Gaussian Mixture Models and Universal Background Models for voice recognition and recurrent neural network implementation.  * Established an Android application in support of BU psychological research involving 300+ users. Boston University - Boston, MA 2017 to 2017 Technologies: Python, Flask, MySQL  Formulated a unique photo management and sharing website from conception through to publish.  * Instituted a rating and recommendation system fueled by user contributions. Research Assistant Beijing Normal University - Beijing, CN 2016 to 2017 Technologies: C++, OpenCV  Teamed with Professor/Associate Dean Bo Sun to masterfully create a mobile photo analysis system. Adapted the light compensation and DFT/Hough transform methods to establish background/foreground separation and skew correction.  * Achieved layout extract and recognition rate of 73.8%, an 18.4% increase from previous research.  * Influenced capstone for completion of undergraduate degree. Full Stack Web Development Intern Chinasoft International - Beijing, CN 2016 to 2016 Technologies: Java, Spring Boot, Oracle, Apache Tomcat  Structured complete website from conception to properly display and categorize tourism data, equipped with a corresponding management website. Education Master of Science in Computer Science in Graduate Databases Boston University - Boston, MA May 2019 Bachelor of Science in Computer Science in Artificial Intelligence Beijing Normal University - Beijing, CN 2017 Skills Android (2 years), C+ (1 year), CSS (Less than 1 year), Excel (1 year), HTML5 (Less than 1 year), Java (3 years), Javascript (Less than 1 year), Machine Learning (Less than 1 year), Matlab (Less than 1 year), MongoDB (Less than 1 year), Oracle (1 year), Python (2 years), Redis (1 year), Solutions (Less than 1 year), SQL (Less than 1 year), MySQL, Git, HTML 5 Links http://www.tianyouh.com