Amazon Prime Student Ambassador Amazon Prime Student Ambassador Software Engineering Associate - Belkin International Cupertino, CA Work Experience Amazon Prime Student Ambassador Amazon - Irvine, CA September 2018 to Present ? Increased brand presence on campus through promotional events and face-to-face interactions with 700+ students weekly  ? Curated promotional social media posts for 1000+ followers while working with company sponsors such as Calvin Klein Jeans Software Engineering Associate Belkin International - Playa Vista, CA June 2018 to Present ? Core member of Linksys mobile application team to develop UI screens and wireflows in Swift from Sketch designs  ? Created UI unit tests and unit tests in Xcode to increase code coverage, improve localization, device variability, and detect bugs UX Researcher Cie Digital Labs - Irvine, CA April 2018 to June 2018 ? Recommended UX improvements after collecting data through interviews and surveys from over 1000 students at UC Irvine  ? Improved user experience through creation of Student Success App after conducting quantitative and qualitative data analysis Web SEO Assistant Cie Digital Labs - Irvine, CA April 2018 to June 2018 ? Managed backend of Wordpress website by overseeing 894 posts and properly utilizing categories, tags, and meta-descriptions  ? Improved internal SEO by examining and relinking broken website links and ensuring that internal links add value to the website Web Developer Rabbit Advocates - Portland, OR January 2018 to April 2018 ? Redesigned website for nonprofit organization dedicated to rescuing rabbits by collaborating with a team of 8 developers  ? Better managed user experience through implementation of search engine optimization and responsive web design Python Lab Tutor Rabbit Advocates - Irvine, CA January 2018 to March 2018 ? Mentored 43 students enrolled in Python (ICS 31) by reviewing code, explaining concepts, creating relevant examples  ? Recommended best practices for teaching Python concepts by collaborating with professors and other lab tutors Education Bachelor of Science in Informatics in Human-Computer Interaction University of California - Irvine, CA September 2016 to September 2018 Skills CSS (Less than 1 year), UI (Less than 1 year), unit tests (Less than 1 year), user interface (Less than 1 year), Xcode (Less than 1 year) Links http://linkedin.com/in/felicia-hou http://www.feliciahou.com Additional Information SKILLS & I NTERESTS  Skills: UI Tests, UI Unit Tests, Adobe Creative Cloud (Photoshop, Illustrator, XD), Tableau, Sketch, Xcode, Wordpress, Squarespace  Languages: Python, Swift, Java, HTML, CSS