Mobile App Developer Mobile App <span class="hl">Developer</span> Entry level Software Developer Jersey City, NJ Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Mobile App Developer World view ltd - Omaha, NE November 2017 to Present I work here for the Mobile application development. I work kn the Xamarin where Iam building xamarin.forms, xamarin android and ios applications. FULLSTACK WEB DEVELOPER CO-OP United Health Group - Plainsboro, NJ August 2017 to August 2017 • Designing and developing web applications with extensive user interface development  • Implementing unique designs based on the screen sizes used.Extensive usage of HTML, CSS, BootStrap, JavaScript, DOM manipulations, Jquery, NodeJS, etc.  • Collaborating with mobile application development teams and gaining experience with Android/IOS application development platforms  • Experience working with APNS (Apple Push Notification Service) - pop-up alerts, badges, action sheet and integration of various social networking APIs like Facebook, twitter into application.  • Expertise in working with public API's such as Google Maps, Facebook and FCM. CampHire Web Project Stevens Institute of Technology - Hoboken, NJ August 2017 to August 2017 • Developing a fully working web page with places that can have camping facilities.  • Works similar as AirBnb: Commenting, payment portals, Data management features are also setted up  • Worked with: HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, Javascript, jquery, node js, mongoDB, APIs are also used SOFTWARE ENGINEERING INTERN NEC Laboratories - Princeton, NJ May 2017 to July 2017 • Experienced working with OpenCV libraries, python and other Image Processing Tools  • Experienced Working with Docker platform, huge datasets, APIs and machine learning  • Involved in R&D conducted by the firm Team lead and Java Coder Stevens Institute of Technology - Hoboken, NJ January 2017 to March 2017 Took charge of assembling the Arduino Uno R3 Mega 2560, a servo motor and ultrasonic sensor to a breadboard; placing obstacle in the range of the sensor; and calibrating the detection of the obstacle on a screen Python programmer and presenter Stevens Institute of Technology - Hoboken, NJ August 2016 to December 2016 Hoboken, NJ, USA  Project Name: Web Scraping and Cleaning using Python Aug 2016-Dec 2016  Role: Python programmer and presenter  • Held responsibility in scraping the data from 1966 NBA draft to 2014 draft  • Take charge of extracting the data through comma-separated values (CSV) files  • Eliminated unwanted data and managed the plotting of graph Team Leader Stevens Institute of Technology - Hoboken, NJ September 2016 to November 2016 • Developed effective and efficient mirror project showing the temperature, time, calendar, and to-do list  • Implemented the project by utilizing Python language  • Held responsibility in assembling and Java programming Team lead January 2016 to May 2016 Andhra Pradesh Skill Development Centre • Vijayawada, AP, India  Project Name: Development of Bluetooth Controlled Electronic Home Appliances Jan 2016-May 2016  Role: Team lead  • Effectively operated the existing Android Automation Circuit and MIT App Inventor tool  • Initiated and tested various simulations to identify the concepts of wireless connectivity, control systems, micro controller working, hosts, and virtual machines  • Utilized the Keil compiler and MIT App Inventor software, as well as the 8081 microcontroller at89c51 controller  • Created an effective cooking device that can be controlled when far away from house Frontend Programmer Aditya Engineering College November 2014 to December 2014 Surampalem, AP, India  Project Name: Web and Mobile Application for College Notifications  Microsoft Incubation Centre Nov 2014-Dec 2014  Role: Frontend Programmer  • Introduced the 'Aditya Connect' application available on Android Play Store and iOS App Store  • Evaluated all student's performance and notified with college news  • Used the Windows server and Hypertext Preprocessor (PHP) for backend functions.Coded on JavaScript  • Hyper text HTML/CSS and Bootstrap used Education Master of Computer and Electrical Engineering in Digital Systems Architecture Stevens Institute of Technology - Hoboken, NJ December 2017 Bachelor of Science in Electrical and Communication Engineering in Wireless Communications Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University - Kakinada, Andhra Pradesh 2016 Skills .NET (Less than 1 year), application software (Less than 1 year), C (Less than 1 year), C+ (Less than 1 year), python (Less than 1 year) Additional Information Hardworking, results-driven, and dedicated professional, pursuing a challenging engineering position to proactively utilize knowledge and skills acquired from education. Armed with strong understanding of software development engineering, systems learning methodologies, and information technology. Adept at developing innovative software applications and technologies with applied fundamental principles, architecture, and systems modelling. Recognized for highly analytical and technical skills, excellent team player, and communication capability.    • ? Core Competencies    • Highly knowledgeable in various programming language and platforms, as wells as web-based programs and traditional programs, such as Java and C++  • Familiarity with software development methodologies and processes, which included the prototyping, iterative, waterfall, incremental and spiral development, and types of agile methodologies  • Efficiently skilled at researching, designing, developing, and test operating systems-level software, as well as network application software in diverse industries, including medical, communications, business, and general computing applications  • Adeptness in providing specifications, identifying operational feasibility, writing code, and documenting functionality  • Armed with strong understanding of data structures, algorithms, and software design patterns, as well as creating flow charts, SQL Queries, and documenting application process for future maintenance and upgrades    Operating Systems Linux ? Windows ? Macintosh  Languages C ? Java ? C++ ? C# ? Python ? JavaScript jQuery, Node.JS, Angular JS ? Arduino ? HTML /CSS and Bootsrap ? .NET ? JSP ? PHP ? Rust ? React ? R  Software MS Access ? MS SQL Server ? MS Office ? Mongo db  Business Tools Tableau