Full Stack Python Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Python Developer - WestRock Atlanta, GA • Around 3 years of experience as a Python Developer, proficient coder in multiple languages and environments including Python, REST API, AWS, C, Javascript and SQL.  • Experienced with full software development life cycle, architecting scalable platforms, object oriented programming, database design and agile methodologies.  • Experience in Object Oriented Analysis in developing server side and front-end framework using various design patterns.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, CSS, HTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  • Developed Python based API (RESTful Web Service) to track the events and perform analysis using Django.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Cleaned data and processed third party spending data into maneuverable deliverables within specific formats with Excel macros and python libraries.  • Experienced in working with various Python IDE's using PyCharm, PyScripter, Spyder, PyStudio and PyDev.  • Expertise in using Relational Databases using MySQL, MSSQL and PostgreSQL databases with Python.  • Experienced in web applications development using Django/ Python using HTML/CSS for server-side rendered applications.  • Excellent working knowledge in UNIX and Linux shell environments using command line utilities.  • Hands on experience working in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, My SQL, and Python) Architecture.  • Experience working in both water fall and Agile software methodologies.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users.  • Experience on AWS Cloud Formation and Terra form API to create infrastructure on AWS as a code.  • Used Amazon EC2 command line interface along with Bash/ Python to automate repetitive work.  • Skilled in using collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  • Developed GUI using webapp2 for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of python code using a web browser.  • Experience with Unit testing/ Test driven Development (TDD), Load Testing.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python and JavaScript in Linux based OS.  • Designed and implemented large scale business critical systems using Object oriented design and Programming concepts using Python and DJango.  • Excellent communication, interpersonal and analytical skills and a highly motivated team player with the ability to work independently. Work Experience Full Stack Python Developer WestRock - Atlanta, GA April 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using html, CSS, Javascript and JQuery.  • Implemented AJAX for dynamic functionality of a webpages for front end applications.  • Used Ajax and JQuery for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  • Worked on front end frameworks like CSS Bootstrap for responsive web pages.  • Implemented presentation layer using CSS framework, Wire-Framing and HTML5.  • Worked on server side applications with Django using Python programming.  • Associated with working cloud computing platforms like Open stack.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create user-friendly website interface.  • Developed Wrapper in Python for instantiating multi-threaded application.  • Developed various algorithms for generating several data patterns.  • Validated the data of reports by writing SQL queries in PL/SQL Developer against ODS.  • Added several options to the application to choose particular algorithm for data and address generation.  • Good Understanding of the Database Schema, Data Dictionary, Data Models for Testing the data in a ETL process  • Created data access using SQL and PL/SQL stored procedures.  • Good experience in Shell Scripting, SQL Server, UNIX and Linux, Open stack.  • Participated in the complete SDLC process.  • Written many programs to parse excel file and process many user data with data validations.  • Developed monitoring and notification tools using Python.  • Worked on UI using HTML5, CSS3 and Java Scripts.  • Worked with product development team in building necessary infrastructure to support development, test and production of the product.  • Worked on AWS Cloud Formation and Terra form API to create infrastructure on AWS as a code.  • Used Amazon EC2 command line interface along with Bash/ Python to automate repetitive work.  • Created Python script to monitor server load performance in production environment and horizontally scale the servers by deploying new instances.  • Wrote Python routines to log into the websites and fetch data for selected options.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Used the Django Framework to develop the application.  • Build all database mapping classes using Django models.    Environment: Python, PyUnit, HTML, AJAX, CSS, JavaScript, Django, Amazon Web Services (AWS), JSON, REST, Bootstrap, Git, JIRA, SQL, Agile, Windows and Linux. Python Developer Amedisys - Baton Rouge, LA September 2017 to December 2017 Responsibilities:    • Participated in all the stages of software development lifecycle like design, development, and implementation and testing.    • Worked on cleansing data generated from weblogs with automated scripts in Python.    • Used Amazon EC2 command line interface along with Bash/ Python to automate repetitive work.    • Worked on migrating data to Amazon AWS. Used AWS products like EC2, IAM, RDS, Log Monitor, Lambda, REST API Gateway etc.    • Business logic implementation, data exchange, XML processing and graphics creation has been done using Python and Django.    • Developed Views and Templates with Python and to create a user-friendly website interface Django's view controller and template language used.    • Developed UI using CSS, HTML, JavaScript, jQuery and JSON.    • MySQL Procedures and UNIX Shell Scripts were designed and developed for Data Import/Export and Conversions.    • A Django dashboard with a custom look and feel for end user has been created after a careful study of the Django admin site and dashboard.    • Unit Test Python library was used for testing many programs on python and other codes.    • JIRA was used to build an environment for development.    • To avoid the reloading of the entire web page to update small portions, AJAX in UI was used.    • For sending and receiving the data between multiple systems RESTful Web-Services were implemented.    • Features for dashboard were developed and tested using CSS, JavaScript, Django and Bootstrap.    Environment: Python 3.5/3.6, Django, Java Script, HTML, XHTML, jQuery, JSON, XML, CSS, AWS, MySQL, Bootstrap, Git, Linux, PyCharm Python Develoepr CenturyLink - Monroe, LA June 2017 to August 2017 Responsibilities:  • Worked with Marketing and Sales teams to enhance applications to suit their needs.  • Technical experience with LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, PYTHON) architecture.  • Involved in various phases of the project like Analysis, Design, Development, and Testing.  • Developed rich user interface using CSS, HTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Developed a Front-End GUI as stand-alone Python application.  • Debug application deployments on Multiple-environments.  • Created Business Logic using Python 2.7.  • Trained and documented initial deployment and Supported product stabilization / debug at the deployment site.  • Used Django framework for application development.  • Wrote scripts in Python for Extracting Data from HTML file.  • Used Git for the version control.  • Designed and developed components using Python.  • As a Python Developer, I designed and developed Use-Case Diagrams, Class Diagrams, and Object Diagrams using UML Rational Rose.  • Development of real-time multitasking systems using Java.  • Deployed Cloud with various templates.  • Effectively communicated with the external vendors to resolve queries.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.7, MySQL, Windows, Linux, HTML, CSS, JQuery, JavaScript, Apache, Linux, Javascript, Multithreading, HTTP, PL/SQL. Python developer Liberty Mutual Insurance - Baton Rouge, LA January 2017 to May 2017 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Attend walk-thru meetings with the clients to understand the requirements.  • Extensively used Python requests module to call webservices.  • Used Jquery Ajax calls to build dynamic websites.  • Deployed Django web application in Apache webserver and carpathia cloud web deployment.  • Written numerous Django templates for page rendering.  • Build JSON objects using the framework which will be used by JavaScript to control the flow of the page.  • Resolved performance related issues using efficient coding.  • Develop dynamic webpages using HTML, CSS, JavaScript and AJAX.  • Good knowledge on Python pickles.  • Installed numerous Python modules.  • Built dbcontext, runcontext and other python objects that's reused by application.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django, XML, HTML, HP Quality Center and ALM 11.0, excel Python Developer Wintech Services - Hyderabad, Telangana July 2015 to July 2016 Alfa resources is a highly focused, emerging provider of recruitment solutions in India, offering a wide variety of services that connect top quality candidates with clients looking to fill positions in their organizations. Also provides an extensive range of services for domestic and multi-national companies.    Responsibilities:  • Used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users.  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS, JQuery, JSON and JavaScript.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL db package.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Developed entire front-end and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django module to deliver certain format of data.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.    Environment: MySQL, HTML, Python 2.0, Django 1.4, CSS, XML, JavaScript, SOAP, JSON, Linux, AJAX, JQuery. Education Master's of science in Computer Science Southern University and A&M College - Baton Rouge, LA Bachelor's of science in Computer Science Engineering Malla Reddy Institute of Technology, JNTU - Hyderabad, Telangana Skills DJANGO (3 years), HTML (3 years), JAVASCRIPT (3 years), PYTHON (3 years), CSS (3 years), Angular (2 years), Java (1 year) Additional Information Technical Skills:  • Programming Languages: Java, JavaScript, Python, C, SQL, Angular 2/4/5  • Frameworks: Flask, Django, Spring MVC  • Database: MySQL, SQL Server, MS Excel  • Operating System: Linux/Unix, Windows  • Cloud Services: Amazon Web Services (Various Services)  • Web Technologies: AJAX, HTML, XHTML, XML, JQuery, CSS, JSON, RESTFULL API, Bootstrap  • Version Control Tools: Subversion, Git, Codeville, Jira  • Methodologies: Agile, Scrum and Waterfall.