Data Analysis - Research Assistant Data Analysis - Research Assistant Chicago, IL Seeking Entry Level full-time opportunity as Database/ Web/ Software Developer Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Data Analysis - Research Assistant Illinois Institute of Technology - Chicago, IL January 2017 to May 2017 • Research on Semantic Interoperability in standards of Industry Foundation Classes data model using Python.  • Developed a prototype application in semantic web architecture using Machine learning algorithms like Support Vector  Machine (SVM), Naive Bayes, K-means as a proof of concept for the research using Python and SQL.  • Assisted Professor Ivan Mutis majorly in maintaining the database of website cyber-eye.net also in study of interoperability. SQL Developer ProStaff - Taylor Made Software Inc - Chicago, IL August 2016 to August 2016 - Dec '17  • Optimized the SQL queries using T-SQL querying concepts like Sub queries, Table expressions, Joins and Set operations,  Aggregating, and Pivoting data. Reduced the execution time by 80% and increased the over-all system performance by 30%  • Wrote PL/SQL procedures for various business requirements also provided JIT PL/SQL procedures across different teams.  • Supported cross functioning team (especially the UX team) by solving the bugs before SLA and supported clients over call.  • Worked on SCRUM Agile process and used JIRA for tracking updates and Git sourcetree as code repository. Software Research Intern W. W. Grainger - Chicago, IL May 2016 to August 2016 • Solely developed and maintained large data sets containing company's sales and customer's order history.  • Developed an in-house application analysis using Python, pandas, SQL, and PL/SQL for Revenue & Logistics Department.  • Developed a wrapper procedure in PL/SQL for various revenue analysis requirements.  • Generated customer strategic digital marketing techniques based on assumptions made on analysis  • Continuously supported Revenue and Logistic Department for 4 weeks on the application. Used JIRA for tracking updates.  • Wrote unit and functional test-cases for the PL/SQL Procedures. Software Developer Engineer Tata Consultancy Services - Hyderabad, ANDHRA PRADESH, IN May 2014 to June 2015 • Worked in TCS Innovations Lab Technologies - Network Application for Military Networks using Java swings.  • Developed a secure web portal for sending and retrieving information in a decentralized Disruption Tolerant Network (DTN)  • Implemented a security protocol in wireless DTN using Cipher Text Policy Attribute Encryption to enhance confidentiality.  • Conducted a Knowledge Transfer session to the entire team in TCS on the Cipher Text Policy Attribute Encryption.  • Worked on SCRUM Agile process. Involved in stand-up meetings, tracking user story and daily activity log. SDE Intern Tata Consultancy Services (TCS) - Hyderabad May 2014 to August 2014 Human Resourse Management System  Built a website that hosted employee database for a company. Information set contained employee contact details and professional records. Employees could view their details stored on the website. Used Tomcat, HTML, JDBC, MySQL Academic Project - Book Recommendation using Collaborative Filtering ( Python) IIT - Chicago, IL Built a recommendation system to suggest books to users based on their ratings on Amazon product data. Compared the predictive accuracy of various collaborative filtering techniques like user based collaborative filtering, item based filtering, matrix factorization and analyzed the performance using parameter tuning. Academic Project - Facebook/Twitter Friend List Prediction ( Python) IIT - Chicago, IL Predicted the probability that two people are friends in Facebook and Twitter using weighted jacquard similarity score by collecting their connections through their REST API’s. Created a Predictive model with an accuracy of 88% in python. Academic Project - Predict Popularity of Actors/Celebrities using Twitter API (Online Social Network Analysis) IIT - Chicago, IL Collected tweets (regionally), made clusters of users using Girvan Newman cluster analysis and classified tweets using Machine learning models like Support Vector Machine, naive based & logistic regression for predicting the sentiment of tweets. Computed average testing accuracy of each model over k-fold Cross-validation and made accuracy comparison analysis and built graphs – using Python. Academic Project - OS Design & Implementation in Minux IIT - Chicago, IL Implemented Shell with command suggestion feature, Message Queue with its supported IPC System calls and implemented File System Tools with many added functionalities – using C in Minux OS. Academic Project - Implementing Static Hashing schemes IIT - Chicago, IL The aim of this project is to implement static Hashing schemes of two specific types - open addressing and chaining, using Java. For the open addressing hashing scheme, Linear probing, Quadratic probing and Double Hashing were implemented. A good hash function and a bad hash function has been used and the subsequent results have been compared. It was observed that bad hash functions can lead to clustering and searching in linear time in case of Linear Probing. Finding out the best running times in our implementation in case of open addressing to determine when to rehash and increase the size of the map. Academic Project - Online Ticket Booking System IIT - Chicago, IL An user-friendly website to book tickets online, create and update user information, review the customer experience and thus will help to improve the site and implement new features.  Systematized an online ticket booking website. Developed a database using SQL Developer, Java, and PL/SQL. Formulated views, triggers, and procedures for collecting and updating data onto tables. Explicated a website through a user-interface – using HTML, JS, jQuery, CSS and JSP Servlets. Academic Project - Computing shortest path in a network dealing realtime scenarios IIT - Chicago, IL Implementing Dijkstra's algorithms with cost effective path from a specified source to the destination and display why the route is chosen by creating connection table of a node. If there are more than one shortest paths available, find all from a source node to a destination node. Function to modify a link weight of existing topology and find a new collection table, and shortest path(s) from a source node to a destination node – display entire process step by step automatically. Adding a node to the existing topology and find a new collection table, and shortest path(s) from a source node to a destination node – display entire process step by step automatically. Displaying Multiple paths exist between two directly connected nodes, build a connection table for this condition, one or more of the path(s) go down, build a new connection table and shortest path(s) from a source node to destination node. Education Masters of Science in Computer Science Illinois Institute of Technology - Chicago, IL August 2015 to May 2017 Bachelor of Technolgy in Computer Science Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University - Hyderabad, ANDHRA PRADESH, IN August 2011 to May 2015 Skills .NET (Less than 1 year), AngularJS (Less than 1 year), Java (1 year), Python. (Less than 1 year), SQL. (Less than 1 year) Links http://linkedin.com/in/ravalinannuru http://ravali.us http://github.com/ravalinannuru Awards Winner of TEDx-IIT 2016 poster design competition 2016-02 Secured State 1st Rank in International Cyber Olympiad 2008 2008-02 Secured State 1st Rank in International Math Olympiad 2008 2008-03 Certifications/Licenses Microsoft Database Fundamentals - Microsoft Virutual Academy July 2016 to Present Python Programming - University of Michigan January 2015 to Present ORACLE Certified Java SE6 Programmer September 2013 to Present Additional Information Technical Skills  • Programming Languages: SQL, PL/SQL, Java, Python, C, C++, PHP, NoSQL  • Web Technologies: HTML5, CSS3, Boot Strap CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS, XML, Jason  • Tools and IDE: NetBeans, Eclipse, GitHub, JIRA, Visual Studio, SQL Server Management Studio