Python Full Stack Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Full Stack Developer - Devon Bank Chicago, IL • Over 10 + years of strong experience in the full life cycle (SDLC) of the software development process including requirement gathering, analysis, design, development, writing technical/system specifications, interface development and implementation of Client/Server application development.  • Good experience of software development in Python (libraries used: libraries- Beautiful Soup, numpy, scipy, matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas data frame, network, urllib2, MySQL dB for database connectivity) and IDEs - sublime text, Spyder, pycharm, emacs.  • Experience in python, Django, Zope, Pyramid Framework  • Business logic implementation, data exchange, XML processing and graphics creation has been done using Python and Django  • Django's view controller and template language is used.  • Developed UI using CSS, HTML, JavaScript, AngularJS, JQuery and JSON.  • DB2 SQL Procedures and UNIX Shell Scripts were designed and developed for Data Import/Export and Conversions  • A Django dashboard with custom look and feel for end user has been created after a careful study of the Django admin site and dashboard.  • Unit Test Python library was used for testing many programs on python and other codes.  • Worked on Selenium testing framework.  • Different testing methodologies like unit testing, Integration testing, web application testing, selenium testing were performed.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, PHP, C++, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and JQuery , MVC3 ,RESTful, RUBY, AJAX  • Experience in analyzing and handling large datasets using Oracle Relational database 9g, 10g, 11g.  • Have good knowledge on No-Sql databases like Cassandra, Mongodb.  • Good knowledge in maintaining various version controls systems such as SVN and GIT.  • Have good Knowledge of Agile Methodologies (Scrum).  • Good experience in Shell Scripting, SQL Server, UNIX and Linux, Open stack.  • Experienced in writing SQL Queries, Stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, triggers.  • Have good idea about development tools like Bugzilla, Jira, Confluence, and Axosoft.  • Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Experienced in requirement gathering, Use case development, Business Process flow, Business Process Modeling: extensively used UML to develop various use cases, class diagrams and sequence diagrams.  • Experience in working with different operating systems Windows 98/NT/2000/XP/Vista/7/8, UNIX.  • Expert in maintaining technical documentation for projects.  • Good analytical and problem solving skills and ability to work on own besides being a valuable and contributing team player.  • Excellent Interpersonal and communication skills, efficient time management and organization skills, ability to handle multiple tasks and work well in a team environment. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Full Stack Developer Devon Bank - Chicago, IL March 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Business logic implementation, data exchange, XML processing and graphics creation has been done using Python and Django  • Views and Templates were developed with Python and to create a user-friendly website interface Django's view controller and template language is used.  • Developed UI using CSS, HTML, JavaScript, AngularJS, JQuery and JSON.  • DB2 SQL Procedures and UNIX Shell Scripts were designed and developed for Data Import/Export and Conversions  • A Django dashboard with custom look and feel for end user has been created after a careful study of the Django admin site and dashboard.  • Unit Test Python library was used for testing many programs on python and other codes.  • Worked on selenium testing framework.  • JIRA was used to build an environment for development.  • Different testing methodologies like unit testing, Integration testing, web application testing, selenium testing were performed. Used Django framework for application development.  • Developed user interface using, CSS, HTML, JavaScript and JQuery& Ruby on rails.  • Assisted in reduction of cost and optimization of supplier selection for the CRM Applications.  • Ensured high quality data collection and maintaining the integrity of the data.  • Cleaned data and processed third party spending data into maneuverable deliverables within specific formats with Excel macros and python libraries.  • Used several python libraries like wxPython, numPY and matPlotLib.  • Was involved in environment, code installation as well as the SVN implementation.  • Build all database mapping classes using Django models and cassandra.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code  • This project also used other technologies like JQuery for java script manipulations, bootstrap for the front-end html layout.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Developed, tested and debugged software tools utilized by clients and internal customers.  • Coded test programs and evaluated existing engineering processes.  • Designed and configured database and back end applications and programs.  • Performed research to explore and identify new technological platforms.  • Collaborated with internal teams to convert end user feedback into meaningful and improved solutions.  • Resolved ongoing problems and accurately documented progress of a project.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django, Java Script, SQL Server, HTML, DHTML, CSS, Linux, Sub Version, Wing, AJAX. Python Developer Optum Health - Windsor, CT May 2013 to March 2017 Responsibilities:  • Involved in various phases of the project like analysis, design, development, and testing.  • Attend walk-thru meetings with the clients to understand the requirements.  • Built farm data and load into the Postgres database using SQL Alchemy.  • Used Jquery Ajax calls to build dynamic websites.  • Deployed Django web application in Apache webserver and carpathia cloud web deployment.  • Written numerous Django views (class based) and templates for page rendering.  • Extensively used closures in Javascript framework.  • Build JSON objects using the framework which will be used by JavaScript to control the flow of the page. Resolved performance related issues using efficient coding.  • Develop dynamic webpages using HTML, CSS, JavaScript and AJAX.  • Good knowledge os Python pickles.  • Worked on Bug fixes.  • Installed numerous Python modules.  • Built dbcontext, runcontext and other python objects that's reused by application.  • Created numerous reports using reportlab and xlrt/xlwt python packages.  • Extensively used Python requests module to call webservices.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django, XML, HTML, HP Quality Center and ALM 11.0, Bugzilla, excel, QTP, Python Developer Hudson Insurance - Alpharetta, GA December 2011 to 2013 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Participated in the complete SDLC process.  • Developed rich user interface using CSS, HTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Created Business Logic using Python 2.7.  • Used Django framework for application development.  • Created database using MySQL, wrote several queries and Django API's to extract data from database.  • Created specific images using Python Imaging Library for the custom images used for each book.  • Wrote scripts in Python for extracting data from HTML file.  • Effectively communicated with the external vendors to resolve queries.  • Used Git for the version control.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.7, MySQL, Windows, Linux, HTML, CSS, JQuery, JavaScript, Apache, Linux. Python Developer Ncell Telecommunications July 2010 to September 2011 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Participated in the complete SDLC process.  • Developed user interface using CSS, HTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Wrote Python modules to extract/load asset data from the MySQL source database.  • Designed and implemented a dedicated MYSQL database server to drive the web apps and report on daily progress.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Used Django framework for application development.  • Created entire application using Python, Django, MySQL and Linux.  • Enhanced existing automated solutions, such as the Inquiry Tool for automated Asset Department reporting and added new features and fixed bugs.  • Embedded AJAX in UI to update small portions of the web page avoiding the need to reload the entire page.  • Programming in Python as well as Perl  • Created most important Business Rules which are useful for the scope of project and needs of customers.  • Improved performance by using more modularized approach and using more in built methods.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Performed data manipulation/storage for incoming test data using lxml /etree libraries.  • Developed API modularizing existing python module with the help of pyyaml libraries.  • Wrote unit test cases for testing tools.  • Created database using MySQL, wrote several queries to extract/store data.  • Coded test programs and evaluated existing engineering processes.  • Designed and configured database and back end applications and programs.  • Performed research to explore and identify new technological platforms.  • Collaborated with internal teams to convert end user feedback into meaningful and improved solutions.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.4, Puppet Rspec, Jenkins, Grafana/Graphite, MySQL, Linux, HTML, CSS, JQuery, JavaScript, Apache, Linux, Git, Perl, Cassandra. Python Developer Surya Nepal - Kathmandu, NP May 2007 to June 2010 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Participated in the complete SDLC process.  • Developed rich user interface using CSS, HTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Created business Logic using Python/Django.  • Created database using MySQL, wrote several queries to extract data from database.  • Used Amazon Cloud EC2 along with Amazon SQS to upload and retrieve project history.  • Setup automated cron jobs to upload data into database, generate graphs, bar charts, upload these charts to wiki, and backup the database.  • Effectively communicated with the external vendors to resolve queries.  • Used Perforce for the version control.    Environment: Python, PHP, C++, MySQL, Linux, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, Apache Web Server, Django Education Bachelor of Engineering in Electrical Engineering in Electrical Engineering Institute of Engineering Skills CSS (9 years), HTML (9 years), JavaScript (9 years), JQuery (9 years), Python (9 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Operating systems Windows, Linux, Ubuntu  Languages Java, C, C++, Python, R, Perl, Ruby  Scripting languages CSS, AJAX, Javascript, JQuery, PHP, Shell Scripting  Analytics Tools JMP PRO, SAS, Tableau, UCI NET, NodeXL ,MVC3  Markup languages HTML, XML, JSON  Servers Apache Tomcat, IBM Web sphere, open stock, RESTful web services  Databases Oracle, My SQL, query languages: PL,SQL  IDEs/ Tools Eclipse, Toad, Sublime text, Spyder  Revision Controlling Systems CVS, Github  Methodologies & tools Object Oriented Programming, UML, Agile Scrum  MS office tools Microsoft Excel (Super user), Microsoft word, Microsoft PowerPoint, PPT Plex