Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - Equifax Montgomery, AL, AL, AL • Over 9+ years of experience in developing web-based applications, software development and design using Python 3.3/2.7, Django 1.9/1.8, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, JQuery & Angular Js.  • Experience with Django, a high-level Python Web framework. Experience with Object Oriented Programming (OOP) concepts using Python, Django and Linux.  • Familiar with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web Services (EC2, RDS, S3)  • Proficient in SQL databases MS SQL, MySQL, Oracle and no-SQL databases MongoDB.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Created a Python/Django based web application using Python scripting for data processing, MySQL for the database, and HTML/CSS/JQuery and High Charts for data visualization of the served pages.  • Well aware of SDLC, Waterfall, Test-driven development (TDD) and Agile/Scrum Methodologies.  • Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Worked on AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings.  • Good knowledge of various Design Patterns and UML and strong knowledge in frameworks Iron Python, Cpython.  • Expertise in MVW frameworks like Django, Angular JS, Java Script, JQuery and Node.js.  • Used Python, Perl, JQuery, JavaScript and JSON at the front end.  • Experience in Shell Scripting, SQL Server, Unix and Linux, Open stack.  • Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  • Experienced in MVC/MVT frameworks like Django, Flask and Pyramid.  • Expertise in Object-Oriented design and coding.  • Followed Agile Methodologies (Scrum), involved in daily stand-up meetings. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Python Developer Equifax - Charleston, SC Present Description: Integer is a global leader in the design and development of medical devices and power solutions for the medical and non-medical markets.    Responsibilities:  • All applications were developed with Python, Django, and PostgreSQL using JIRA (Agile) methodology.  • Refactored and extended large existing Django/ Python code base by maintaining PEP-8 code standards and fix the bugs.  • Wrote several scripts that bug tracked day to day operations, a site to show all errors from every site as a dashboard, and maintained notifications to the other IT Department for any errors that occurred.  • Used several python libraries like wxPython, numPY, Jython and matPlotLib and Used Agile Methodology and SCRUM Process.  • Versatile with Version control systems including Git and SVN and Implemented RESTful API which returns data from PostgreSQL in JSON format  • Design and documentation of RESTful APIs for collection and retrieval of high volume IOT telemetry data.  • Actively Worked on Comprehensive monitoring architecture for Lodging Operations support application.  • Implemented a selectable template structure in Django making it possible to change the HTML layout and design based on site URL and /or domain and Used Plotly to create python powered dashboard.  • Good experience in developing responsive website using HTML, CSS and JavaScript and Development and maintenance of Lodging Operations support application.  • Significantly improved report generation efficiency by caching, reusing and improve the security level of Data.  • Developed MVC prototype replacement of current product with Django Improved page load time by 60 times.  • Expertise in Python scripts to phase XML documents and load the data in database and +Evangelized the use of web services to implement application integrations.  • Wrote multiple programs in Python to monitor virtual machine usage data using VMWare API calls and Wrote a program to use REST API calls to interface with backup server, and parse output reports of an excel file in python to monitor customer backup usages.  • Built a Django web Django application to analyze custom twitter trends and Fixed bugs with HTML and JavaScript codes and worked on resolving browser compatibility issues.  • Built database structure and wrote Postgre SQL queries and Built Django and REDIS servers for data storing and Built web journal with framework and Jinja templates.    Environment: Python, Django, Agile, CSS3, HTML5, HTTP, JSON JavaScript, PostgreSQL, AWS, REST, Shell scripting, Sublime, PyCharm, Web Services, XHTML, XML. Sr. Python Developer PySide, Pickle, Pandas - San Jose, CA September 2014 to July 2016 Responsibilities:  • Experience in implementing python alongside using various libraries such as matplotlib for charts and graphs, MySQL db for database connectivity, python-twitter, PySide, Pickle, Pandas data frame, network, urllib2.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django including Tasty pie Web Framework using Git.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  • Gathered all requirements for developing and analysing requirement of projects.  • Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  • Knowledge in front end technologies such as HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, Node.JS, Angular.JS, bamboo.JS, XML, Ajax and JQuery.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, XML, CSS, HTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Used Test driven approach for developing the application and Implemented the unit tests using Python Unit test framework.  • Designed front end using UI, HTML, Bootstrap, Node JS, underscore JS, Angular JS CSS, and JavaScript.  • Dynamic implementation of SQL server work on website using SQL developer tool.  • Involved in the Complete Software development life cycle (SDLC) to develop the application.  • Performed defect analysis and Interaction with Business Users during UAT/SIT.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in data repositories  • Experience in designing Use Cases, Class diagrams, Sequence and Collaboration diagrams for multi-tiered object-oriented system architectures utilizing Unified Modeling Tools (UML) such as Rational Rose, Rational Unified Process (RUP) Working knowledge of Agile Development methodologies.  • Involved in deployment of project using Docker  • Used Git to resolve and coding the work on Python    Environment: Python 2.7, Windows, Django, MySQL, PostgreSQL and python libraries such as SQL alchemy, MySQL DB, Python Developer Randstad Tech - Dallas, TX November 2012 to August 2014 Responsibilities  • Developed Python based API (RESTful Web Service) to track the events and perform analysis using Django.  • Created a Python/Django based web application using Python scripting for data processing, MySQL for the database, and HTML/CSS/JQuery and High Charts for data visualization of the served pages.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, PHP, C++, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML , JavaScript and Jquery.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  • Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and Jquery.  • Executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL db package.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed UDF's using python and also implemented graphs using python with big data analytics.  • Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website and used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python and created unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the critical web application.  • Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Worked on various environment Python, MYSQL, Apache, CSS, git, DHTML, HTML, JavaScript, Shell Scripts.    Environment: Python 2.7, 3.2, 3.4, Java, VBA, XML, Shell scripting, SQL Server, SQL, Eclipse, Windows, UNIX/Linux Python Developer GE Energy - Waukesha, WI November 2009 to October 2012 Responsibilities  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Java and Python using Web Frameworks.  • Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using python.  • Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  • Implemented the MVC pattern with Struts framework with Tiles for the presentation layer.  • Used Eclipse as IDE tool for creating JSPs, Servlets, EJBs, and XML.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  • Build SQL queries implementing functions, packages, views, triggers, and tables.  • Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Implemented Log4j API for exception handling, logging of the errors, warnings, messages, stack traces, debuggers throughout the code.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Handling the day-to-day issues and fine-tuning the applications for enhanced performance.  • Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all of its commands.    Environment: ava, Python, Struts 1.2, Django 1.0, MySQL, Linux, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, SQL, MySQL, Apache Web Server, UNIX. Python Developer AgFirst Farm Credit Bank - Columbia, SC May 2006 to October 2009 Responsibilities:  • Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Rewrite existing Python modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using python.  • Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  • Build SQL queries implementing functions, packages, views, triggers, and tables.  • Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the critical web application.  • Handling the day to day issues and fine tuning the applications for enhanced performance.  • Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all of its commands.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.0, MySQL, Linux, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, SQL, MySQL, Apache Web Server, UNIX. Education Bachelor of Engineering in Engineering Harvard University Skills DATABASE (10+ years), DJANGO (10+ years), PYTHON (10+ years), SQL (10+ years), MYSQL (10+ years) Additional Information Operating Systems Windows, Unix, Linux  Language Python, Perl, C, Java, OOPs concepts, VBA, Shell Scripting  Database Oracle, SQL Server, MySQL, SQLite  Tools MS Visual Studio, Linux command  Web Framework Django, Flask and Pyramid  Web Services AWS, Amazon S3    Operating Systems Windows, Linux, MAC OSX, Ubuntu.  Protocols TCP/IP, HTTP/HTTPS, SMTP  Deployment Tools Heroku