Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - Cognizant Boston, MA • 9+ Years of experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Testing, Customization, Bug fixes, Enhancement, Support and Implementation of various web, stand-alone, client-server enterprise applications using Python, Django in various domains.  • Experienced with full software development life-cycle (SDLC), architecting scalable platforms, object oriented programming (OOPs), database design and agile methodologies.  • Experience in developing web-based applications using Python 3, Django 1.10/9.  • Good experience of software development in Python (libraries used: Beautiful Soup, numpy, scipy, matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas data frame, network, urllib2, MySQL dB for database connectivity) and IDEs - sublime text, Spyder, pycharm, emacs.  • Extensive experience in system analysis, design, development and implementation of web based and client/server application using HTML, Angular JS, Bootstrap, underscore JS, Node JS, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX,XML, Python, Django.  • Good experience in developing web applications implementing MVT/MVC architecture using Django, Flask, Webapp2 and spring web application frameworks.  • Experienced in MVC frameworks like Django, Angular JS, Java Script, JQuery and Node.js.  • Experienced in web applications development using Django/ Python, Flask/ Python. And Node.js, Angular.js, JQuery while using HTML/CSS/JS for server-side rendered applications.  • Experience in importing and exporting data from HDFS to Relational Database Systems and vice-versa using Apache Hadoop Eco-System  • Worked closely with designer, tightly integrating Flash into the CMS with the use of Flash vars stored in the Django models. Also created XML with Django to be used by the Flash.  • Good Experience in Linux Bash scripting and following PEP Guidelines in Python.  • Using Django evolution and manual SQL modifications was able to modify Django models while retaining all data, while site was in production mode.  • Experienced with databases using ORMs/DOMs for integrating with MySQL, Postgres, Neo4J, MongoDB, and Cassandra SQLite. Also, experienced with writing custom queries through database connectors.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgresSQL with complete data integrity.  • Architecture, size (Capacity planning), Data modeling, implementation and support Cassandra Clusters including install, configure and upgrade DSE v3/4 (Cassandra v 1/2.x) and OpsCenter v 4.x/5.x on Bare metal and Cloud including AWS (Amazon Web Services).  • Installation, configuration, Management, supporting and monitoring Hadoop cluster using various distributions such as Apache SPARK, Cloudera and AWS Service console  • Extensive experience in designing MongoDB multi-sharded cluster and monitoring with MMS.  • Good Knowledge of web services using SOAP and REST protocols.  • Used Node.js as a proxy to interact with Rest services and also interacting with Database.  • Excellent Experience and knowledge in using XML, SOAP, web Service for inter operable software applications.  • Good knowledge of version control software - CVS, GitHub  • Experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Good knowledge in Automated Tool like Selenium RC and Web Driver.  • Developed multiple frameworks like Data driven, Keyword driven and Hybrid.  • Good experience in creating, modifying and enhancing both manual Test cases and Test Scripts created in Selenium  • Skilled in debugging/troubleshooting issues in complex applications.  • Excellent experience with Python development under Linux OS and Mac OS (Debian, Ubuntu, Cent OS, RedHatLinux, Fedora).  • Experience in Database Administration, development, design, maintenance and production support of relational databases, business applications, new server setup, MySQL Server installation, upgrade, migration. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Python Developer Cognizant - Teaneck, NJ October 2016 to Present Description: Pitch is a pluggable product to different CRM systems. Mainly targeted to sales personnel to deliver targeted marketing messages, design and conduct a sales cycle customized to organization's business work flow and even measure user interaction and content usage metrics via an integrated analytics data engine. Pitch currently supporting for Exchange, SharePoint, Dropbox and Salesforce. Main features are offline access to documents and appointments.    Responsibilities:  • Developed web applications and RESTful web services and APIs using Python, Django and PHP.  • Experience with Django, a high-level Python Web framework.  • Automated JIRA processes using Python and bash scripts.  • To fetch data of definite options that are selected, Python routines were written to log into websites.  • Automated AWS S3 data upload / download using Python scripts.  • Responsible for setting up Python REST API framework using DJANGO.  • Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  • Created Python and Bash tools to increase efficiency of application system  • Developing Python Framework using Django to perform scan software unit monitoring.  • Design and development of user interfaces and client displays using Java Script, CSS and troubleshoot various issues in Python code and fix them with code enhancements- code used various python libraries such as Jython  • Built various graphs for business decision making using Python matplotlib library.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript  • Built various graphs for business decision making using Python library.  • Implemented business logic using Python/Django  • Responsible for setting up Python REST API framework using Django.  • Implement code in python to retrieve and manipulate data.  • Worked on ElementTree XML API in python to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Created entire application using Python, Django, MySQL and Linux.  • Worked on python based test frameworks and test driven development with automation tools.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, MySQL, Jerkins, and custom tools developed in Python.  • Worked on server side applications with Django using Python programming.  • Utilized standard Python modules such as csv, itertools and pickle for development.  • Worked on Python OpenStack APIs and used Numpy for Numerical analysis.  • Implemented the application using the concrete principles laid down by several Java/J2EE Design patterns like Business Delegate, MVC, Session Façade, Factory Method, Service Locator, Singleton and Data Transfer Objects (DTO).  • Development of Web (Intranet) database-driven and GIS Java/J2EE applications for Oracle databases.  • Involved in multi-tiered J2EE design utilizing MVC architecture Spring, Struts, Hibernate and EJB deployed on Websphere Application Server connecting to an Oracle database.  • Developed and configured the Java beans using Struts MVC and Hibernate.  • Leading JavaScript Frameworks Team like Angular.js, backbone.js, bootstrap.js, Node.js.  • Providing a responsive, AJAX-driven design using JavaScript libraries such as JavaScript, jQuery, backbone.js, Node.js AngularJS and Bootstrap.js - Using Subversion for version control.  • Built a RESTful API to save and retrieve geolocations using a remote server in Java using spring, MongoDB, Apache CXF, and JAX-RS.  • Developed user interface using JSP, JSTL and Custom Tag Libraries and AJAX to speed the application.  • OOP in PHP to extend or update functionalities. The project uses MySQL as the database.  • Involved in Development of the application Using J2EE Technologies (Servlets, JSP, EJB, JSF, Struts).  • Developed the base framework using Java, JSP, Struts, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, Oracle and MS SQL Server.  • Involved in user interface development using JSTL.  • Technology leadership for the direction of the Cloud based application using Node.JS, PDFJS, Sencha, MongoDB and MS SQL Server integrating to a proprietary framework.  • Creation of REST WebServices for the management of data using Apache CXF (JAX-RS)  • Developed HTML, CSS, Javascript and JSP pages for user interaction and data presentation.  • Used JDBC to connect to the information model tier.  • Create webservice component using REST, SOAP, WSDL, XML and XSLT to interact with the middleware  • Used Webservices - WSDL and SOAP for getting credit card information from third party.  • Used XML WebServices using SOAP to transfer the amount to transfer application that is remote and global to different financial institutions.  • Worked in RDBMS implementation using, SQL, PL/SQL, DB2, MySQL on Oracle database.  • Worked with Oracle RDBMS for writing complex queries and PL/SQL, SQL for Stored Procedures, Triggers and Events, for generating some important responses needed by the application at times.  • Performed Validations on UI data using JSF validators and JavaScript.  • Developed interfaces and their implementation classes to communicate with the mid-tier (services) using JMS.  • Performed J2EE application deployment using JBoss application server on Windows and Linux  • Performed Unit Testing and developed Unit Test Classes using JUNIT  • Writing JUnit test/Integration test cases for asserting functional quality    Environment: Java, J2EE, Python, Django, Spring, Hibernate, JSP, Angular.js, React.JS, Node.js, bootstrap.js, backbone.js, Ibatis, HTML, Javascript, CSS, XML, WebLogic, WebServices, SOAP, Cassandra, Hadoop, PL/SQL, Junit, Oracle, MySql, REST, SOA, Git, Github, Selenium, RAD, Agile, UML, CVS, Eclipse. Sr. Python Developer Verizon - Temple Terrace, FL March 2015 to September 2016 Description: Verizon Wireless is an American telecommunications company, a wholly owned subsidiary of Verizon Communications, which offers wireless products and services.    Responsibilities:  • Followed Agile Methodologies to manage full life-cycle development of the project.  • Writing backend programming in Python and used the Django Framework to develop the application.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery and Angular JS.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Developed RESTful services using Django.  • Designed and developed communication between client and server using Secured Web services.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Java, Bootstrap, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Used JavaScript and XML to update a portion of a webpage.  • Developed consumer based features and applications using Python and Django in test driven Development.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite3 to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  • Performed Unit testing, Integration Testing, GUI and web application testing using Rspec.  • Worked on Jenkins continuous integration tool for deployment of project.  • Worked on changes to open stack and AWS to accommodate large-scale data center deployment.  • Used Amazon Cloud EC2 along with Amazon SQS to upload and retrieve project history.  • Experience in project deployment using Heroku/Jenkins and using web services like Amazon Web Services (AWS) EC2, AWS S3, Auto scaling, Cloud watch and SNS.  • Created interactive data charts on Customer portal web application using High charts JavaScript library with data coming from Apache Cassandra.  • Worked on front end frame works like CSS, Bootstrap for development of Web application.  • Worked in MySQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization.  • Deployed the project into Jenkins using GIT version control system.  • Learned to index and search/query large number of documents inside Elastic search.  • Creating invitation flow for customers to use the client portal for monitoring applications.  • Created the environment specific settings for a new deployment and update the deployment specific conditional checks in code base to use specific checks.  • For the large data management used TFS and delivered reliable end product.  • Used advanced packages like Mock, patch and beautiful soup (b4) to perform unit testing.  • Worked on translation of web pages to different languages as per client requirements.  • Updated the client admin tool to have the new features like support for internalization, support for customer service etc.  • Collaborate with Product Management and User Experience experts regarding product definition, schedule, scope and project-related decisions.  • Worked on updating the existing clip board to have the new features as per the client requirements.  • Used many regular expressions to match the pattern with the existing one.  • Taken part in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Improved code reuse and performance by making effective use of various design patterns.    Environment: Python 3.4, 2.7, Java 1.7, Django 1.9/1.7, HTML5, CSS3, XML, JSON, MySQL, JavaScript, Angular JS, Backbone JS, JQuery, CSS Bootstrap, Puppet, Postgre SQL, Amazon s3, AWS, Jenkins, Mongo DB, Elastic search, T-SQL, Beautiful soup, TFS, nose,, Eclipse, Git, GitHub, Linux Python Developer State of New York - New York, NY November 2013 to February 2015 Description: The objective of the Actionable Dashboard project is to build a decision support system for health. It leverages all the sources of doctors, specialist and course data (e.g., practical exercise performance; individual, state and national results, specilist demographic and behavioral data, notes, performance metrics, etc.), coupled with advanced analytics, to deliver actionable dashboards with more-timely activities.    Responsibilities:  • Recording of Scripts (Web, Web Services HTML) using Vugen and SoapUI and script validation through co correlations, parameterizations and other methods. Scripting- web and web services.  • Application was based on service oriented architecture and used Python 2.7, Django1.5, JSF 2, Spring 2, Ajax for the frontend.  • Created server monitoring daemon with Psutil, supported by Django app for analytics which I created. Also researched big data solutions with Cassandra database.  • Experience with Data migration from Sqlite3 to Apache Cassandra database. Cassandra data model designing, implementation, maintaining and monitoring using DSE, Dev Centre, Datastax Opscenter.  • Build the Silent Circle Management System (SCMC) in Django, Python, and Node.JS while integrating with infrastructure services.  • Created a Python/Django based web application using Python scripting for data processing, MySQL for the database, and HTML/CSS/JQuery and High Charts for data visualization of the served pages.  • Strong Socket programming experience in Python. Implemented complex networking operations like raceroute, SMTP mail server and web server.  • Used existing Deal Model in Python to inherit and create object data structure for regulatory reporting.  • Used standard Python modules e.g. csv, robotparser, itertools, pickle, jinja2, lxml for development.  • Automated RabbitMQ cluster installations and configuration using Python/Bash.  • Used PandasAPI to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Experience in using various version control systems like CVS, Gitand Amazon EC2 and deployment using Heroku.  • Worked extensively with Bootstrap, JavaScript, and JQuery to optimize the user experience.  • Application programs can exchange data with TCP by establishing and maintaining network.  • Carried out various mathematical operations for calculation purpose using python libraries.  • Built various graphs for business decision making using Pythonmatplotlib library.  • Fetched twitter feeds for certain important keyword using python-twitter library.  • Used Python library Beautiful Soup for web scrapping to extract data for building graphs.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Pythonbug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.    Environment: Python, Django, Cassandra, RabbitMQ, Vugen, SoapUI, Node.JS, REST API, HTTP, TCP, Bash, PyDev, Spyder, Agile, GitHub. Django Developer EDASSIST - Watertown, MA March 2012 to October 2013 Description: EdAssist helps organizations transform tuition assistance programs into strategic investments that drive employee growth, retention, and engagement. Serving in a consultative role, we bring together the latest best practices, personal advising, intuitive software, and an impressive Education Network to support key business goals while reducing tuition spend and improving program efficiency.    Responsibilities:  • Used Django framework for application development.  • Developed user interface using, CSS, HTML, JavaScript and Jquery and Django.  • Assisted in reduction of cost and optimization of supplier selection for the CRM Applications. Also used methods for cross application use using the Class Builder and Object Oriented programming. Generated an API Reference guide to help application developers for creating the software applications to store data using DDN S3 (compatible with Amazon S3 API) or DDN OpenStack Swift API calls.  • Ensured high quality data collection and maintaining the integrity of the data.  • Cleaned data and processed third party spending data into maneuverable deliverables within specific formats with Excel macros and python libraries. Used TDD (Test driven development) methodology.  • Used several python libraries like wxPython, numPY and matPlotLib.  • Was involved in environment, code installation as well as the SVN implementation.  • Build all database mapping classes using Django models and Cassandra.  • Used PandasAPI to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  • This project also used other technologies like JQuery for javascript manipulations, bootstrap for the front-end html layout.  • Designed and configured database and backend applications and programs.    Environment: Python, Django, CI, Cassandra, JavaScript, RabbitMQ, SoapUI, Node.JS, wxPython, numPY, PandasAPI, PyDev, Agile. Python Developer Royal Sundaram Alliance Insurance Company Ltd - Chennai, Tamil Nadu October 2010 to February 2012 Description: Royal Sundaram Alliance Insurance Company Ltd (RSA), a Joint Venture between Sundaram Finance Ltd and Royal & Sun Alliance Plc. of UK, sells a wide range of Commercial and Personal Insurance Products in India. The application would support product creation and underwriting, Quotation and Policy Issuance (New Business) for Engineering and Commercial Property line of business.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in the entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, Testing and Implementation and Support.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were the main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  • Created Business Logic using Python 2.7.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Worked on developing internal testing tools written in Python.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Performed client-side validations using JavaScript and server-side validations using Django.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Designed and developed the UI using HTML, AJAX, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Managed large datasets using Pandas data frames and MySQL.  • Rewrite existing modules into Python to deliver certain format of data.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Embedded AJAX in UI to update small portions of the web page avoiding the need to reload the entire page.  • Created most important Business Rules which are useful for the scope of project and needs of customers.  • Created database using SQLite, wrote several queries to extract data from the database.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Generated interactive dashboards using tableau.  • Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations.  • Used Jenkins for automation of build process and coordinated deployments across different sites.  • Developed GUI using webapp2 for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of Python code using a web browser.  • Built development environment with JIRA and SVN.    Environment: Python, Django, Pandas, HTML5, CSS, XML, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, Eclipse, Linux, SVN, MySQL, Apache. Java Developer SUNERA TECHNOLOGIES - Hyderabad, Telangana January 2008 to September 2010 Description: Sunera Technologies is wide range of banking products and financial services for corporate and retail customers through a variety of delivery channels and specialized subsidiaries in the areas of investment banking, life, non-life insurance, venture capital and asset management.    Responsibilities:  • Developed application service components and configured beans using Spring IOC, creation of Hibernate mapping files and generation of database schema.  • Implemented modules using Core Java APIs, Java collection, Threads, XML, and integrating the modules.  • Developed Reporting framework using JAVA and J2EE which will generate daily, monthly and yearly reports and prepared different framework design documents.  • Created tables, views, Types, triggers, complex join queries, stored procedures, and functions and modifications to existing database structure as required for addition of new features using SQL developer.  • Involved in web designing using HTML 4/5, XHTML, CSS 2/3, JQuery, JavaScript extensively used Table less Design in CSS for positioning.  • Used MVC Architecture in spring framework and implemented custom tag libraries.  • Generated Use case diagrams, Activity flow diagrams, Class diagrams and Object diagrams in the design phase.  • Used Java/J2EE Design Patterns such as Business Delegate, Session Facade, singleton in the project extensively, which facilitates clean distribution of roles and responsibilities across various layers of processing.  • Configured Hibernate second level cache using EHCache to reduce the number of hits to the configuration table data.  • Extensively Used Ant tool to build and configure J2EE applications and used Log4J for logging in the application.  • Implemented client side validations for Search and Security modules using JavaScript and Validation Framework.  • Responsible for design and implementation of various modules of the application using Struts-Spring-Hibernate architecture.  • Automated the HTML and JSP pages indexing process of search module using ApacheAnt tool and singleton design pattern.  • Tested JSPs and Servlets used in search, security and scheduler modules using Cactus API.  • Done extensive coding using Java, J2EE for enhancements and bug fixes in agile development environment.    Environment: Java, J2EE, JSP, Struts, Hibernate, HTML, Eclipse, Apache Ant, JavaScript, JQuery, Oracle 10g, Windows XP Education B.Tech JNTUH/Hyderabad - Hyderabad, Telangana Skills CSS (10+ years), DATABASE (10+ years), HTML (8 years), APACHE (8 years), DJANGO (7 years) Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Primary Languages Python, Java, C,C#,C++  Python Libraries numpy, scipy, matplotlib, Pandas data frame, urllib2  Frameworks Bootstrap, Django, Node.JS, Flask, Pyramid  Database Sqlite3, MSSQL, MySQL, Mongo DB, Oracle 11g,NoSQL  IDE's PyCharm, Eclipse, MS Visual Studio  Servers Apache Tomcat, WebSphere, WebLogic  Deployment tools MS Azure, Amazon Web Services (EC2, S3, EBS, ELB, SES)  Web Technologies HTML, CSS, DHTML, XML, Java Script    Operating systems Windows, Mac, Fedora Linux, Red hat Linux, Cent OS  SDLC Methods SCRUM, Agile  Testing Frameworks Junit, TestNG, ROBOT, JXL,  Bug Tracking Tools JIRA, Bugzilla.  Version Controls SVN, Github, Git