Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Marriott internationals Gaithersburg, MD ? Hands-on experience as a Python Developer and a proficient coder in multiple languages and environments including Python, REST API, AWS, C, R, C++, and SQL.  ? Experience in designing and developing multi-tier enterprise applications using Java 1.7/1.8, JEE& related technologies such as Core Java, JDBC, Servlets, Spring, JDBC, Hibernate, XML, JSP, HTML and Web services.  ? Extensive experience in Text Analytics, developing different Statistical Machine Learning, Data Mining solutions to various business problems and generating datavisualizations using Python.  ? Worked on several Python packages like NumPy, matplotlib, Beautiful Soup, Pickle, PySide, SciPy, wxPython, PyTables etc.  ? Sound knowledge in spring, Hibernate, RDBMS, Web, XML, Ant/Maven, HTML, Python, Shell Scripting.  ? Experience in developing web services (WSDL, SOAP and REST) and consuming web services with Python programming language  ? A highly immersive Data Science program involving Data Manipulation & Visualization, Web Scraping, Machine Learning, Python programming, SQL, GIT, Unix Commands, NoSQL, MongoDB, Hadoop.  ? Extensive experience in creating Tables, Views, Indexes, Stored Procedures, Cursors, Triggers and T-SQL queries.  ? Executed MySQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package to retrieve information.  ? Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language and good knowledge of Web Services with protocols SOAP, REST.  ? Experience in using third-party tools like Telerik, Dev Express, and kendo Controls and worked containerizing applications using Docker and Vagrant and familiar with JSON based REST, SOAP, and Amazon Web Services.  ? Experienced in working with various Python Integrated Development Environments like Net Beans, PyCharm, PyScripter, Spyder, PyStudio, PyDev and Sublime Text.  ? Designed, configured, and deployed Amazon Web Services for a multitude of applications utilizing the AWS stack (Including EC2, Route53, S3, RDS, Cloud Formation, Cloud Watch, SQS, IAM), focusing on high-availability, fault tolerance, and auto-scaling  ? Expertise in establishing database connections for Python by configuring packages like MySQL- Python.  ? Experience in Machine learning using NLP text classification, Churn prediction using Python.  ? Extensive Experience in Business Intelligence (BI) Tools like SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS), SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS), SQL Server Analysis Services (SSAS).  ? Experience or strong interest in foundational machine learning models and concepts like regression, random forest, boosting, GBM, NNs, HMMs, CRFs, MRFs, deep learning.  ? Hands on Experience in building RESTful APIs, architecting complex systems with batch and real-time workloads, monitoring and instrumenting production systems.  ? Hands on Experience in building scalable data and advanced analytics solutions on AWS.  ? Expertise in weekly progress reports as well as a final research summary upon completion of theproject.  ? Worked on various applications using python integrated IDE Eclipse, PyCharm, NetBeans, and Geany.  ? Pleasant experience in developing web applications and implementing Model View Control (MVC) architecture using server-side applications like Django, Flask,andPyramid.  ? Expertise in working with different databases like Microsoft SQL Server, Oracle, MySQL, Cassandra, PostgreSQL and Good knowledge in using NoSQL databases MongoDB.  ? Worked with PHP, MYSQL, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX,andXHTML to build a fully Web 2.0 compliant networking website.  ? Excellent working knowledge ofUNIX and Linux shell environments using command line utilities.  ? Strong experience in PL/SQL experience including writing stored procedures and complex queries  ? Hands on experience working in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python / PHP) Architecture.  ? Familiarity with development best practices such as code reviews, unit testing, system integration testing (SIT) and user acceptance testing (UAT).  ? Design and maintain databases using Python and developed Python-based API (Restful Web Service) using Flask, SQL Alchemy and PostgreSQL.  ? Highly motivated, quality minded developer, with proven ability to deliver applications against tight deadlines.  ? Working knowledge ofthe multi-tiered distributed environment, OOAD concepts, a good understanding of Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC)  ? Excellent Experience of Databases such as MySQL, Microsoft SQL Server, PostgreSQL, SQL/PLSQL concepts  ? Possess good interpersonal, analytical presentation Skills, ability to work in Self-managed and Team environments. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Marriott internationals - Gaithersburg, MD July 2017 to Present Marriott International, Inc. is a leading global lodging company with more than 6,500 properties across 127 countries and territories, reporting revenues of more than $22 billion in fiscal year 2017. In 2017, Marriott was ranked #33 on Fortune's "100 Best Companies to Work For" list, its twentieth appearance on the list. Founded by J. Willard and Alice Marriott and guided by family leadership for nearly 90 years, the company is headquartered outside of Washington, D.C. in Bethesda, Maryland.    Responsibilities:  ? Worked with HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript in developing web applications.  ? Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture.  ? Created a Python/Django based web application using Python scripting for data processing, MySQL for the database, and HTML/CSS/jQuery and High Charts for data visualization of the served pages.  ? Developed frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework with GIT.  ? Successfully migrated the Django database from MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  ? Used Test driven approach for developing the application and Implemented the unit tests using Python Unit test framework.  ? Worked on Python Open stack API's used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  ? Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package  ? Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  ? Familiar with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services (AWS).  ? Setting up databases in AWS using RDS, DynamoDB, storage using S3 bucket and configuring instance backups and archives to Glacier archives, and configured AWS Redshift for data Warehousing.  ? Created AWS Launch configurations based on customized AMI and use this launch configuration to configure auto scaling groups.  ? Utilized Cloud Watch Events to collect data from other AWS resources and transfer them to SQS and SNS for alerting solar.  ? Created S3 buckets in AWS and stored files and Enabled Versioning and Security for files stored.  ? Worked on Selenium testing framework.  ? Used Cloud Front to deliver content from AWS edge locations to users, allowing for further reduction of load on front-end servers.  ? Experienced in Installing, Configuring and Managing Docker Containers, Docker Images for Web Servers and Applications servers such as Apache Tomcat using Docker and integrated with Amazon MySQL RDS database.  ? Writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL databases.  ? Developed automation scripts to test storage appliances in Python.  ? Developed consumer-based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML, Behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pair-based programming.  ? Involved in Loading, analyzing and extracting data to and from Oracle database with Python.  ? Worked with python Unit test library which was used for testing many programs on Python and other codes.  ? Used AJAX for Better interactivity for the end user and easier navigation and AJAX is compact.  ? Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.    Environment: Python, Django, JSON, AJAX, JSON, RESTful, SQL, MYSQL, PostgreSQL, AWS, Docker, XML, Open stack API, CloudFront JavaScript, GIT, SOAP, PyCharm, HTML, CSS. Python Developer CRL - Tucson, AZ April 2016 to June 2017 The Computational Chemistry group within Crown Research Laboratories (CRL) has a substantial amount legacy code written in C / C++, Ruby, Perl and bash. This legacy code will need to be refactored and / or rewritten to align with LRL IT architectural and DevOps best practices.    Responsibilities:  ? Used HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON designed and developed the user interface of the website.  ? Wrapper developed in Python to run this application along with other applications.  ? Wrote python scripts to parse XML and JSON reports and load the information in database.  ? Handled UI and server-side programming.  ? Created, activated and programmed in Anaconda environment. Wrote programs for performance calculations using NumPy and SQLAlchemy.  ? Backend scripting/parsing using Perl and Python  ? Enhancing the tests to support 16 threads and run in MP environment.  ? Parsers written in Python for extracting useful data from the design data base.  ? Development of XMLs for several components which maintains data for several registers  ? Development of data structures, xml parsing using Python.  ? Used REST based micro services with REST template based on RESTful APIs and designed, developed the UI for the client websites by using HTML, CSS, jQuery and React.js.  ? Usage of advance features like pickle/unpickle in python for sharing the information across the applications  ? Representation of the system in hierarchy form by defining the components, subcomponents using Python and developed set of library functions over the system based on the user needs.  ? Rewrite existing Java application in Python module to deliver certain format of data.  ? Creating Python based micro services and refactoring/enhancing exiting services.  ? Worked on developing internal testing tools which were written in Python. Worked on Libraries like Pandas for data manipulation and analysis.  ? Setup automated cron jobs to upload data into database, generate graphs, bar charts, upload these charts to wiki and backup the database.  ? Development of several Python APIs that works both in Linux and windows and maintaining them using the revision control GIT.  ? Used Django framework for application development. Excellent knowledge with distributed storages (HDFS) and distributed processing (MapReduce, Yarn)  ? Involved in Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  ? For the manipulation of data from the database various queries using SQL were written and created a database using MYSQL.  ? Worked on Jenkins continuous integration tool for deployment of project. Played a key role in a development wide transition from Subversion to Git, which resulted in increase in efficiency for the development community  ? Deployed the project into Heroku using GIT version control system.    Environment: Linux, Python, Django, HTML, XML, JavaScript, AngularJs, JQuery, MySQL, Amazon s3, Jenkins, Perl, Pandas, Eclipse, GitHub Python Developer Express Scripts - St. Louis, MO December 2014 to March 2016 Express Scripts Holding Company is an American Fortune 100 company. As of 2018, the company is the 25th-largest in the United States as well as the largest pharmacy benefit management (PBM) organization in the United States. Express Scripts had 2016 revenues of $100.752 billion    Responsibilities:  ? Designed and Developed UI for creating Dashboard application using AngularJS, D3, C3, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript and jQuery.  ? Developed and implemented Python scripts to automate retrieval, parsing and reporting of configuration parameters from Network Devices connected to customer networks.  ? Involved in user interface design and development using JSP, Servlet, HTML5, CSS3,andJavaScript.  ? Wrote and tested Python scripts to create new data files for Linux server configuration using a Python template tool.  ? Modified controlling databases using SQL generated via Python and Perl code, collected and analyzed data with Python programs using SQL queries from the database of data collected from the systems under tests.  ? Developed new user interface components for different modules using Kendo UI with various controls including Grid controls, and chart controls etc.  ? Involved in write application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and hence building type-ahead feature for zip code, city,and county lookup using jQuery, Ajax,and jQuery UI.  ? Updated the client admin tool to have the new features like support for internalization, support for customer service etc.  ? Collaborate with Product Management and User Experience experts regarding product definition, schedule, scope and project-related decisions.  ? Worked on updating the existing clipboard to have the new features as per the client requirements.  ? Skilled in using collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user-defined objects.  ? Used PHP language on lamp server to develop a page and developed server-based web traffic statistical analysis tool using Flask, Pandas.  ? Implementation of Reinforcement learning techniques in the field of Machinelearning by following Dynamic programming using Python 2.x/3. x.  ? Taken part in theentire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  ? Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  ? Automated different workflows, which are initiated manually with Python scripts and Unix shell scripting.  ? Used Python unit and functional testing modules such as unit test, unittest2, mock, and custom frameworks in-line with Agile Software Development methodologies.  ? Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  ? Created and maintained Technical documentation for launching Hadoop Clusters and for executing Hive queries and Pig Scripts.  ? Developed Sqoop scripts to handle change data capture for processing incremental records between new arrived and existing data in RDBMS tables.  ? Installed Hadoop, Map Reduce, HDFS, AWS and developed multiple MapReduce jobs in PIG and Hive for data cleaning and pre-processing.  ? Managed datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL, queried MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package to retrieve information.  ? Involved in the Web/Application development using Python, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JSON, and jQuery.  ? Developed and tested many features for adashboard using Python, Java, Bootstrap, CSS, JavaScript, and jQuery.  ? Generated Python Django forms to record data of online users and used PyTest for writing test cases.  ? Implemented and modified various SQL queries and Functions, Cursors and Triggers as per the client requirements.  ? Prototype proposal for Issue Tracker website using Python/Django connecting MySQL as Database.  ? The developed overall layout that meetscross-platform compatibility using Bootstrap, media queries and Angular UI Bootstrap.    Environment: Python, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JSON, jQuery, MySQL, NumPy, SQL Alchemy, Matplotlib, Hadoop, Pig Scripts. Python Developer Whole Foods - Austin, TX April 2013 to November 2014 Whole Foods Market Inc. is an American supermarket chain that specializes in selling organic products. It has 479 stores in North America and the United Kingdom.On August 23, 2017, it was reported that the Federal Trade Commission approved the merger between Amazon.com and Whole Foods Market.    Responsibilities:  ? Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  ? Worked extensively with Bootstrap, Javascript, and query to optimize the user experience.  ? Handled all the client-side validation using JavaScript.  ? Created a custom CMS built using Django, AWS (Amazon web service), REST, JSON with JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX components, worked closely with the designer. Converted Photoshop images into XHTML/CSS.  ? Rewrite existingPython/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  ? Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  ? Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data intothe database.  ? Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  ? Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS,and JavaScript.  ? Created scripts for system administration and AWS using languages such as BASH and Python.  ? Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website.  ? Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  ? Participated in the entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  ? Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile).  ? Used jQuery for all client-side Javascript manipulation.  ? Created unit test/regression test framework for the working/new code.  ? Implemented multiple high-performance MongoDB replica sets on EC2 with robust reliability.  ? Developed entire frontend and backend modules usingPythonon Django Web Framework.  ? Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  ? Used Python's pandas and matplotlib libraries to conduct data exploration and visualization of electricity consumption data.  ? Created Python scripts for analyzing large quantities of data.  ? Maintained detailed databases of energy storage projects and country-specific energy policies.  ? Generated Python Django Forms to record data, login, and signup of users.  ? Built various graphs for business decision making using Python matplotlib library.  ? Utilized standard Python modules such as csv, itertools,and pickle for development.  ? Worked on Python OpenStack APIs and used NumPy for Numerical analysis.  ? Responsible for search engine optimization to improve the visibility of the website.  ? Performed different testing methods like Unit testing, Integration testing, web application testing.  ? Developed efficient Angular.js for client web-based application.  Environment: Python, Django, Flashvars, PyUnit, PyQuery, PyQt, HTML, CSS, PHP, DOM, REST, AJAX, jQuery, AWS, GitHub, agile, Oracle and Windows. Java Developer Info Edge solutions - Hyderabad, Telangana November 2011 to March 2013 Info Edge has an in-depth understanding of the Indian consumer internet domain. With years of experience in the domain, strong cash flow generation and a diversified business portfolio, it one of the very few profitable pure-play internet companies in the country.    Responsibilities:  ? Consuming and exposing various Web services using JAX-RS and JSON to different systems for business services.  ? Extensively worked with core java like collections, String Builder, and interfaces  ? Used Apache CXF framework to build complex frameworks.  ? Developed complex Web Services and tailored JAX-RS API to suit the requirement.  ? Development of UI models using HTML, JSP, JavaScript, AJAX, Web link and CSS.  ? Primarily focused on the spring components such as Spring MVC, Dispatcher Servlets, Controllers, Model and View Objects, View Resolver.  ? Worked on SOA/Web Services and created request and response WSDLs.  ? Developed Spring Beans and configured spring using applicationContext.xml.  ? Assisted Database Developers using PL/SQL for managing data associated with the tables.  ? Used JDBC to connect to the Oracle database and JNDI to lookup administered objects.  ? Developed a multi-user web application using JSP, Servlet, JDBC, Spring Boot and Hibernate framework to provide the needed functionality.  ? Involved in implementation of enterprise integration with Web Services and Legacy Systems using SOAP and REST (Using Axis and Jersey frameworks).  ? Generated DAO's to map with database tables using Hibernate. Used HQL (Hibernate Query Language) and Criteria for database querying and retrieval of results.  ? Uses Second Level Cache to enhance performance and Proper Memory Management  ? Involved in J2EE Design Patterns such as Data Transfer Object (DTO), DAO, Value Object, and Template.  ? Used Spring IOC, AOP modules to integrate with the application.  ? Developed SQL Queries for performing CRUD operations in Oracle for the application.  ? Used Maven for generating system builds and Bamboo for continuous integration.  ? Used LOG4J, JUnit for debugging, testing and maintaining the system state.  ? Wrote JUnit Test cases for Spring Controllers and Web Service Clients in Service Layer using Mockito.  ? Designed and developed the application using AGILE-SCRUM methodology.    Environment: Java/J2EE, Core Java, Jdk1.4, Spring Boot, Hibernate, Webservices, JAX-RS, Mockito, WADL, SOAPUI, JSP, JDBC, jQuery, AJAX, Html, CSS, Maven, log4j, Oracle, MS SQL, PL/SQL, SQL Developer, JIRA, JMS, APACHE AXIS, Source Tree, IntelliJ, GIT, UNIX, AGILE-SCRUM. Java Developer Sparx Infosys - Hyderabad, Telangana April 2009 to October 2011 Spark Infosys is one of The Best Professional Web Designing, Web Development, Mobile Application Development & SEO (Digital Marketing) Company in Hyderabad with more than 10 years of experience in designing and development of web applications and has successfully completed more than 500+ projects for client's around the world.    Responsibilities:  ? Developed multiple user tools with core Java and DB2 using eclipse IDE.  ? Implemented multiple design patterns like factory, façade, etc.  ? Extensive code reviews on adherence to design and performance.  ? Extensive real-time production support.  ? Wrote HQL queries as part of development.  ? Designed and implemented XML parsing for XML order conformations.  ? Created a database pool, multi-pool, data source and mapped them to roles.  ? Used spring for creating the object using dependency injection (IOC).  ? Developed the web-services and analysis of SOAP envelope using SOAP UI.  ? Created Rest web services using JAX-RS, Hibernate framework.  ? Configured action mapping (in XML) for each logical request that may be submitted.  ? seed Hibernate as Object-Relational (OR) Mapping Tool for the backend data.  ? Have used the DOJO toolkit to construct Ajax requests and build dynamic web pages using JSP, HTML5 and JavaScript, Angular JS.  ? Wrote batch jobs and was involved in performance tuning of complex queries.  ? Monitored the error logs and fixed the problems.  ? Developed the different components of the application such as JSP, Servlets, DAO and Used SubVersion (SVN) for version control.  ? Involved in the Development of Spring Framework Controllers. Developed Controller for the request, response paradigm by Spring Controllers using Spring-MVC.  ? Developed additional UI Components and implemented an asynchronous, AJAX (jQuery) based rich client to improve customer experience.  ? Built ANT scripts for automated deployment and for the build operation of the entire application.  ? Developed web pages using HTML5/CSS and JavaScript, Angular JS  ? Developed many JSP pages, used Dojo in JavaScript Library, jQuery UI for client-side validation.    Environment: Core Java, SQL (DB2), Design Patterns, Spring, OOPS/OOAD (UML), XML, Hibernate, DOJO 1.5, Eclipse IDE, Tortoise SVN source control, Bugzilla, Autosys. Education Bachelor's Skills JAVASCRIPT (9 years), AJAX (9 years), CSS (9 years), DATABASE (9 years), SQL (7 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Web Languages Java, J2EE (JSP, JSF, Servlets, Struts 2.0, Spring Web Flow, JSP Tag Libraries, EJB 3.0, JDBC, JavaScript, SQL  Frameworks Spring MVC, Struts, JSF Framework, Hibernate, Apache CXF, Angular JS, Bootstrap  Methodology OOAD, OOPS, UML, RUP, Autosys  Scripting Language JavaScript, CSS  Mark-up Language HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, Ajax, DOJO.  Python Libraries TensorFlow, Scikit-learn, NumPy, Matplotlib, Pandas, SciPy, OpenCV, Pygame, OpenGL, Kivy.  Database Oracle11g, MySQL 5.x,and SQLServer  IDE Tools Eclipse, RSA, JBuilder, Oracle ADF, Web Logic, Rational Rose, LDAP, RUP Methodology, Clear Case/Clear Quest  Methodologies OOPS/OOAD, UML, J2EE Design Patterns  Tools RAD, Eclipse, Edit Plus, Apache Ant, log4j, JUnit, Visio, ANT, Maven  Web/App. Servers WebSphere Application Server 8.0, Apache Tomcat, Web Logic 11g/ 12c.  CloudTechnologies AWS, S3.