Senior Python Developer Senior <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Python Developer - Perficient St. Louis, MO • 10+years of IT experience in Design, Development, Testing, and Deployment of various applications using Python/Django.  • Experienced with full software development life-cycle, object-oriented design, object-oriented programming and database design.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python/Django, PHP, C++, HTML, DHTML, CSS, XML, JavaScript and Angular.js.  • Good experience in developing web applications and implementing Model View Control (MVC) architecture using server-side applications Django, Flask and Pyramid.  • Extensive experience with multiple technologies like Python 3.4/2.7, Perl 5.1, C++, Shell Scripting, core Java and C.  • Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python) Architecture.  • Experience in implementing PEP8 coding standards.  • Developed internal auxiliary web apps using Python Flask framework with CSS / HTML framework and Working Knowledge of Pandas, Numpy, Scipy.  • Proficient in writing unit testing code using UnitTest/pytest and integrating the test code with the build process.  • Good knowledge on front end frameworks like CSS Bootstrap.  • Expertise in working with different databases like MySQL, PostgreSQL, Oracle and good knowledge in using NoSQL databases like Apache Cassandra, MongoDB (2.6,2.4) • Good understanding of Object-Oriented Technologies and Relational Database Systems.  • Experience in writing Subqueries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Developed Automation testing suite using Python and Robot Framework.  • Sound experience in Core Java and Object-Oriented Programming using concepts like Multi-Threading, Exception Handling and Collections.  • Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache.  • Hands on experience with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins and version control tools such as Git, SVN, CVS, and JIRA.  • Good experience of software development in Python (libraries used: libraries- Beautiful Soup, NumPy, SciPy, matplotlib, SQLAlchemy, python-twitter, Pandas data frame, network, urllib2, wxPython).  • Good Knowledge of using IDE Tools like IDLE, PyCharm, Eclipse, Net Beans, PyStudio and Sublime Text.  • Expertise in MVW frameworks like Django, Angular JS, Java Script, jQuery and Node.js.  • Experience in utilizing SAS Procedures, Macros, and other SAS application for data extraction, data cleansing, data loading and used several python libraries like wxPython, NumPy, SciPy.  • Familiar with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web Services (AWS).  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format and worked on web services using SOAP and REST protocols.  • Wrote AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings.  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  • Good experience with cloud platforms like Amazon AWS and Google App Engine.  • Expertise in AWS Resources like EC2, S3, EBS, VPC, ELB, AMI, SNS, RDS, IAM, Route 53, Auto scaling, Cloud Formation, Cloud Watch, Security Groups.  • Experience in working on different operating systems-windows, iOS, Linux also strong development experience on Linux based operating systems such as Ubuntu, Red Hat and CentOS.  • Good Knowledge of Waterfall and Agile methodologies and experienced on this.  • Active Participation in full development life cycle (requirements, design, architecture, development, testing).  • Performed code reviews and implemented best Pythonic programming practices.  • Good analytical and problem-solving skills and ability to work on own besides being a valuable and contributing team player. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Python Developer Perficient - St. Louis, MO May 2018 to Present Responsibilities: • Worked on development of internal testing tool framework written in Python.  • Developed GUI using Python and Django for dynamically displaying block documentation and other features of python code using a web browser.  • Wrote scripts in Python for extracting data from HTML file.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Used JavaScript and JSON to update a portion of a webpage.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many bug fixes for applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  • Handled potential points of failure (database, communication points and file system errors) through error handling and communication of failure.  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile) • Wrote Python scripts to parse JSON documents and load the data in database.  • Worked on Restful API's to access the third-party data for the internal analysis and statistical representation of data.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django including Tastypie Web Framework using Git.  • Worked on front end frame works like CSS Bootstrap for development of Web applications.  • Created database using MySQL, wrote several queries to extract data from database.  • Worked in NoSQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization and renormalization.  • Setup automated cron jobs to upload data into database, generate graphs, bar charts, upload these charts to wiki and backup the database.  • Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  • Designed front end using UI, HTML, Bootstrap, Node JS, underscore JS, Angular JS, CSS, andJavaScript.  • Followed AGILE development methodology to develop the application.  • Involved in Data base design, normalizations and de-normalization techniques.  • Involved in User Acceptance Testing and prepared UAT Test Scripts.  • Effectively communicated with the external vendors to resolve queries.  • Used and customized apache server to for checking our developed project.  • Used Test driven approach (TDD) for developing services required for the application.  • Implemented Integration test cases.  • Used Git to resolve and coding the work on python and portlet.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.4, HTML5, CSS, XML, MySQL, JavaScript, Angular JS, JQuery, CSS Bootstrap, JavaScript, Eclipse, Git, GitHub, AWS, Linux, Shell Scripting. Python developer General Motors - Warren, MI October 2016 to April 2018 Responsibilities: • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Analyzing and designing test cases for automation framework with Selenium WebDriver • Configure Elastic search, Logstash and Kibana to provide an end-to-end pipeline for log analytics in near real time • Create Grok filters and other type filtering in Logstash to enrich and normalize the data before being stored in the Elasticsearch index.  • Using Curator API on Elasticsearch to data back up and restoring.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Developed the Test Cases Client based on FSD'S and Business Rules; And for Web Client Test Cases based on Use Cases, Wire Frames, Annotated Documents and Business Rules.  • Configure and assign role base access (RBAC) and SUDO to users.  • Execute User and Group Administration while providing Logical Security Administration to users or file systems using; RBAC, Sudo, or Access Control List (ACL).  • Created automation testing framework for regression testing with off-shore team • Developed PySpark code to mimic the transformations performed in the on-premise environment.  • Developed Python code to gather the data from HBase and designs the solution to implement using PySpark.  • Used jQuery libraries for all client-side JavaScript manipulations.  • Worked with millions of database records daily, finding common errors and bad data patterns and fixing them.  • Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and Cassandra.  • Used Python Library Beautiful Soup 4 for Web Scraping to extract data for building graphs.  • Built various graphs for business decision-making using Python matplotlib library.  • Fetched twitter feeds for certain important keyword using python-twitter library.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Datacenter migration to Amazon Web Services (AWS) infrastructure and provided initial support to Applications and Database teams.  • Created Python scripts to automate AWS services which include web servers, ELB, Cloud front distribution, databases, security groups and application configuration.  • Able to create scripts for system administration and AWS using languages such as BASH and Python.  • Deploy and monitor scalable infrastructure on Amazon web services (AWS) & configuration management using chef.  • Created User Interface (UI) using JavaScript, bootstrap, Angular.js and HTML5/CSS.  • Worked on frontend frameworks like CSS Bootstrap for development of Web applications.  • Designed RESTful APIs web service for handling AJAX requests.  • Created project designs utilizing MVC architecture components.    Environment: Python 3.3, Elasticsearch, Django, AWS, HTML5/CSS, Cassandra, JavaScript, PyCharm, GIT, Linux, Shell Scripting, RESTful, AWS S3 CLI, Vagrant, Docker, Confluence. Python developer Bny Mellon - New York, NY November 2014 to September 2016 Responsibilities: • Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Designed and developed data management system using Oracle 11 g.  • Rewrite existing Java, C++ application in Python.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Implemented AJAX for dynamic functionality of a web pages for front end applications.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using python.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code • Used Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format Worked with UNIX like OS on regular basis • Improved code reuse and performance by making effective use of various design patterns • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working with new code • Developed web based application using Django framework with python concepts.  • Carried out various mathematical operations for calculation purpose using Python libraries Numpy and Pandas.  • Generated Python Django forms to maintain the record of online users.  • Used Django API's to access the database.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django, C++, Java, jQuery, SVN, Oracle 11.1, Eclipse, Shell Scripting, HTML4.0 Red hat Linux. Python Developer DXC - Tallahassee, FL September 2012 to October 2014 Responsibilities: • Participated in requirement gathering and analysis phase of the project in documenting the business requirements by conducting meetings with various business users.  • Worked with a team of developers on python applications for RISK management.  • Made Django web-based apps for various bank applications.  • Designed the architecture of the hardware environments and methodology of the code.  • Experienced in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM Process.  • Involved in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Used CVS SVN to resolve and coding the work on Python.  • Performed pytest and unit test on them. Extracted XML code from script for testing.  • Created database using SQL, wrote several queries to extract/store data.  • Used Pandas library for statistical analysis.  • Used Numpy for Numerical analysis for Interest calculations.    Environment: Python 2.6, Django, MySQL, Java, XML, Perl, SVN, UNIX, Apache Tomcat 6.0, MS SQL server 2002, SQL. Java Developer ProQuest - Ann Arbor, MI November 2010 to August 2012 Responsibilities: • Involved in the maintenance, development and production support for the cyber branch Loan Originating System product. 3 • Involved in the requirement analysis, technical design, Coding and unit testing for the new enhancements.  • Created database using MySQL, wrote several queries to extract data from database.  • Worked on the enhancements for the existing pages using servlet, JPA technologies with MS SQL server as the back end. The pages were developed using HTML, Velocity and JavaScript for client-side validation.  • Used Perforce for the version control.  • Designed and developed the application using Waterfall methodology.  • Developed the Loan approval using credit rating from partner banks module.    Environment: Java, JPA 1.0, Servlets, JavaScript 1.7, MySQL, Waterfall HTML 4.0, MS SQL server 2000. Java Developer Powertek Corporation - Rockville, MD September 2008 to October 2010 Responsibilities: • Works well within an agile development team.  • Researches, designs, and develops software systems.  • Designs application objects that work together to produce desired product.  • Ensures that completed objects provide all functionality described by application experts to ensure that performance guidelines are met.  • Develops level-of-effort estimates for enhancements and new features.  • Works with other team members to develop a complete and integrated solution; and to deliver quality software and required documentation on time.  • Develops and executes Test Driven Development tests, integration tests, automated testing.  • Works with agile teams to refine requirements and to identify areas for enhancement.  • Monitors and maintains production systems. Education Bachelor's Skills PHP, MySQL, ASP, Javascript, Android Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Operating systems Windows, iOS, Linux Ubuntu  Languages Python, Java, C, C++, Perl, PHP, Ruby  Frontend Technologies CSS, AJAX, Java Script, jQuery, Angular JS, JSON  Analytics Tools PyTables, PySpark, Pandas, matplotlib, Tableau, Bokeh, HighCharts  Markup languages HTML, XML  Application Servers Apache Tomcat, IBM Web sphere, Apache HTTP  Databases Oracle, MySQL, Cassandra, MongoDB  IDE PyCharm, Sublime text, Eclipse, Toad, Spyder, PyStudio, IntelliJ IDEA.  Version Control Tools GIT, SVN, CVS, JIRA, Code Collaborator  Methodologies & tools Object Oriented Programming, UML, Agile Scrum  Cloud AWS (EC2, S3, RDS, ElastiCache etc.), OpenStack