Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - American Express Omaha, NE • 8+ years of experience infield of software development. Proficient in developing applications using Python and C++.  • Experienced in working with various stages of Software Development Life Cycle(SDLC),Software Testing Life Cycle(STLC) and QA methodologies from project definition to post-deployment documentation.  • Experience of working with WAMP (Windows,Apache,MYSQL,and Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux,Apache,MYSQL,and Python/PHP) Architecture.  • Good Experience with Django, a high-level Python Web framework. Experience object-orientedprogramming (OOP) concepts using Python.  • Knowledge about setting up Python REST API Frame work using Django.  • Experience in working with Python ORM Libraries including Django ORM.  • Experienced in using various control systems like CVS, SVN,Git, Mercurial,GitHub, Amazon EC2.  • Experience in working with Python packages like NumPy, Pandas, BeautifulSoup, Requests, matplotlib, PyTables, SciPy.  • Knowledgeable with continuous deployment using Heroku, Jenkins and Ansible.  • Worked on automation using the Python Scripting language.  • Experience in implementing Model View Control (MVC) architecture using server-side applications like Django, Flask and Pyramid for developing web applications.  • Experienced with JSON based RESTful web services, and XML based SOAP web services.  • Proficient in Front end development experience using HTML, XML, CSS, jQuery, JSON, JavaScript, and Bootstrap.  • Proficient in writing SQL Queries, Stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, triggers using relational databases like Oracle, MySQL, Apache Spark, Cassandra, and MongoDB.  • Hands on Experience in AWS like Amazon EC2, Amazon S3, Amazon Redshift,Amazon EMR and Amazon SQS. Cloud system design, implementation and troubleshooting (AWS,Rackspace, Google, AZURE).  • Good experience with AWSLambda Services.  • Good Experience on testing tools like JIRAand Bugzilla for bug tracking.  • Worked on various operating systems like Windows, UNIX, LINUX and Mac OS.  • Special skills in development of effective, user-friendly web applications. Experienced in requirement gathering, use case development, Business Process flow, Business Process Modeling: extensively used UML to develop various use cases, class diagrams and sequence diagrams.  • Experienced in working with various Python Integrated Development Environments like NetBeans, PyCharm, PyScripter, PyDev, Eclipse and sublime Text.  • Evaluates engineering approaches and risks to produce development plans that ensure high quality, low cost products and systems.  • Experienced in Shell Scripting and UNIX commands.  • Excellent interpersonal and communication skills, efficient time management and organization skills, ability to handle multiple tasks and work well in team environment. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer American Express - Phoenix, AZ November 2017 to Present Worked in Derivatives and FX Back Office Technology for Regulatory Reporting of Foreign Exchange, Interest Rates, Credits and Equities OTC financial product transactions to national regulatory authorities such as US CFTC through DTCC (Depository Trust and Clearing Corporation)..  Responsibilities:  • Used existing Deal Model in Python to inherit and create object data structure for regulatory reporting.  • Developed and maintained web services in Jython using RPyC module to process trade data from legacy applications.  • Used standard Python modules e.g. csv, robotparser, itertools, pickle, jinja2, lxml for development.  • Created modules to transform incoming XML trade data into trade objects, parse trade data and create outbound FPML (Financial Products Markup Language) sent to DTCC repositories.  • Implemented concept of Dependency Acyclic Graph in existing Deal Model within Python classes for creating dependency over various deals objects across the Bank's systems.  • Implemented and used custom built query script to store, index and read large sets of Object data (like MongoDb)  • Used Python unit and functional testing modules such as unit test, unittest2, mock, and custom frameworks in line with Agile Software Development methodologies.  • Used the Python's modules like numpy, matportlib, plotly  • Involved in the development of front end of the application using Python, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JSON and Jquery.  • Developed GUI using Python and Django for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of python code using a web browser.  • Developing applications using RESTFUL architecture using Node.js and PHP as backend languages.  • Automated the existing scripts for performance calculations using Numpy and SQL Alchemy  • Used python packages like cx_oracle, pyodbc and MySQL dB for working with Oracle, SQL Server and MySQL DB respectively.  • Responsible for setting up Angular JS framework for UI development. Developed html views with HTML5, CSS3, JSON and Angular JS, Adobe flash. Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Experienced in NoSQL technologies like MongoDB, Cassandra, Redis and relational databases like Oracle, SQLite, PostgreSQL and MySQL databases.  • Writing SOAP and RESTFul web services, in house ESB for a web Claims applications (Spring MVC, Angular JS, Active MQ, SOAP UI, Mockito, JSON, Buildforge)  • Implemented migration tasks from Oracle apps to PostgreSQL databases.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django including Tastypie Web Framework using Git.  • Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  • Designed front end using UI, HTML, Bootstrap, Node JS, underscore JS, Angular JS, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database. Python Developer Caliber Home Loans - Irving, TX July 2015 to October 2017 Caliber Home Loans, Inc. is a full-service national mortgage lender and agency directseller/servicer. Caliber originates loans through various channels and transaction types, including a network of retail branches, wholesale and correspondent lending, and a consumer-direct.  Mission: We are dedicated to preserving the entrepreneurial spirit of a mortgage bank while ensuring the necessary operational controls to originate and service quality loans and create a company with longevity    Responsibilities:  • Used Wireshark, live http headers, and Fiddler debugging proxy to debug the Flash object and help the developer create a functional component.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval. Having very good experience with BIG DATA  • Created Business Logic using Python to create Planning and Tracking functions  • Created UI Screens for initiation and validation.  • Worked on UI using HTML5, CSS3 and Java Scripts.  • Developed multi-threaded standalone app in Python and PHP to view performance.  • Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval. Having very good experience with BIG DATA  • Created Business Logic using Python to create Planning and Tracking functions  • Created UI Screens for initiation and validation. Worked on UI using HTML5, CSS3 and Java Scripts.  • Developed multi-threaded standalone app in Python and PHP to view performance.  • Skilled in using collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  • Deployment of application on Web logic 8.1 for testing and development team.  • Validate test content in Emulation for SoC Display Controller.  • Associated with development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Involved in preparing technical design document.  • Expertise in Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) and its related technologies like Web Services, BPEL, WSDLs, SOAP, XML, XSD, XSLT etc.  • Designed Cassandra schema for the APIs. Used Connect SOAP rule to fetch the Webservices.  • Used SOAP UI to test the external service.  • Used JIRA for project tacking and Involved in testing the application.  • Participated in the complete SDLC process and used PHP to develop website functionality.  • Version control using GitHub. Involved in writing stored procedures using MySQL. Python Developer Huawei - Bellevue, WA January 2014 to June 2015 Huawei has started a research and development effort focus on providing a scalable, multi-tenant computing and communication infrastructure platform capable of serving the needs of CT & IT customers. This project is to define the platform interface for our edge computing services, design and implement solutions ranging from large scale distributed online services to lean and powerful edge settings.    Responsibilities:  • Conducted my role in entire Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the project.  • Developed web applications in Django Framework's model view control (MVC) architecture and manipulated databases by using Django database API along with MySQL.  • Wrote scripts using python modules and libraries to develop programs which improve processing of access request.  • Wrote Python scripts to extract/load asset data from the MySQL source database.  • Enhanced existing automated solutions, such as the Inquiry Tool for automated Asset Department reporting and added new features and fixed bugs.  • Played a key role in a development wide transition from Subversion to Git, which resulted in an increase in efficiency for the development community.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Interacted with databases by writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Used python module named Pandas for data manipulation.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, to build an interactive web-based solution.  • Created Restful API's to integrate and enhance functionalities of the application. Also Utilized Restful API in communicating with third parties.  • Used Python to place data into JSON files for testing Django Websites.  • Managed code versioning with GitHub, Bit Bucket and deployment to staging and production servers.  • Involved in code reviews using GitHub pull requests, reducing bugs, improving code quality, and increasing knowledge sharing.  • Installed and configured monitoring scripts for AWS EC2 instances.  • Configured and deployed project using the Amazon EC2 on AWS.  • Used Amazon Elastic Beanstalk with Amazon EC2 to deploy project into AWS.  • Coded test programs and evaluated existing engineering processes.  • Worked with team of developers on Python applications for RISK management.  • Utilized PyUnit, the Python Unit test framework, for all Python applications.  • For testing purpose, used unit test framework - unit test.  • Used JIRA for bug tracking and issue tracking and Used Agile Methodology and SCRUM Process.  • Using version control tool - GitHub with Jenkins to accumulate all the work done by team members. A trusted leader The Riverside Company 2015 to 2015 A trusted leader in financial technology, our innovative solution streamlines origination and portfolio management for business, consumer direct and indirect lending, while our award-winning business intelligence tools mitigate risk and generate growth-all through a single, integrated platform. In 2015, Baker Hill was acquired by a $4.6 billion global private equity firm, The Riverside Company. With this acquisition came an aggressive commitment to continuous innovation to develop world-class solutions that help drive more profitable relationships for our clients. We provide Loan originating software to various banks which is cloud based.    Responsibilities:  • As Agile team member, we were responsible for Product backlogs, Story grooming sessions, releasing planning, Spring planning, stand ups, Retrospective meetings and demos.  • Planning the development for sprint planning and task creation and task assignment.  • Experience working in agile development environment and Test Driven development.  • Experience with Cloud based Loan Origination web application.  • Experience with HTC web UI controls.  • Worked with MTC Integrity source control.  • Used Trello for Story/task tracking.  • Worked with SAP to deal with business objects.  • Used SSIS to created packages for reporting database.  • Used JavaScript for client side scripting and validation.  • Used SQL server 2014 as backend database and worked on Functions, Stored procedures and views.  • Worked with DevExpress to integrate HTML editor in to the application and customized DevExpress controls as needed.  • Worked with HMDA data to make them reportable in case of mortgage loan to Federal Reserve board.  • Used Cruise Control for automation build and deploy.  • Experience dealing with credit report, Risk management data.  • Worked on Statement analyzer tool enhancements to generate reports different reports. Python Developer Deloitte, Pittsburg, PA October 2011 to December 2013 Deloitte is one of the leading professional services organization in the united states. The team Systems Integration at Deloitte consulting LLP, our systems integration specialists help clients manage the complexity inherent with technology change, from requirements planning to architecture, testing to deployment and helping to link their IT programs to organizational goals.  Responsibilities:  • Participate in requirement gathering and analysis phase of the project in documenting the business requirements by conducting workshops/meetings with various business users.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Worked on information trade from site utilizing XML and Web Services.  • Build all database mapping classes utilizing Django models.  • Worked on writing and as well as reading data from CVS and Excel file formats.  • Worked with Level two support group, DBAs and framework team to enhance the proficiency and capacity of our system.  • Used PyUnit, the Python unit test frame work, for all Python applications.  • Developed and controlled Cloud development scripts, also automated the provision of AWS resources, which involve EC2, S3, RDS.  • Worked on Docker containerization.  • Used Docker to execute a high-level API to give lightweight containers that run forms segregation and dealt with production of customized Docker container images, tagged and pushed these to the Docker repository.  • Implemented a continuation Delivery Pipeline with Jenkins and GitHub to create another Docker holder consequently.  • Developed different algorithms for generating many test environments data patterns.  • Worked with Level two support team, DBAs and setup team to improve the proficiency and cap ability of our system.  • Worked on development of internal testing tool framework written in Python.  • Developed GUI using Python and Django for dynamically displaying block documentation and other features of Python code using a web browser.  • Used JavaScript and JSON to update a portion of a webpage.  • Used SDLC process and used PHP to develop website functionality.  • Extensive code reviewing using GitHub pull requests, improved code quality, and conducted meetings among peer.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with compile data integrity.  • Used Restful API's to gather network traffic data from Servers.  • Supported Apache Tomcat web server on Linux Platform.  • Involved in User Acceptance Testing and prepared UAT Test Scripts  • Built database Model, Views and API's using Python for interactive web-based solution. Software Developer Carmel, IN June 2009 to September 2011 Education Bachelor's Skills MYSQL (6 years), PYTHON (6 years), TESTING (6 years), DEPLOYMENT (6 years), WEB SERVICES (5 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:  Programming Languages Python and C++, Shell Scripting    Technologies HTML, XML, CSS, jQuery, JSON, JavaScript and Bootstrap  Frameworks Django, Flask and Pyramid  Databases Oracle,MYSQL, PostgreSQL, Cassandra, MongoDB,Apache spark  IDE's/Development Tools NetBeans, PyCharm, PyScripter, PyDev, Eclipse and Sublime Text.  Web Services AWS, SOAP and RESTful Web Services  Version Control Systems GIT, GITHUB, CVS, Mercurial, AmazonEC2  Protocols TCP/IP, HTTP/HTTPS, SNMP,SMTP.    Methodologies Agile, Scrum and Waterfall  Deployment Tools Heroku, Jenkins  Servers WebSphere, JBoss, Apache Tomcat    Operating Systems Windows, LINUX, UNIX and Mac OS.  Testing Tools Selenium and JUnit