Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - NIKE Manassas, VA ? 11+ years of IT experience in Design, Development, Testing, and Deployment of various applications using Python/Django.  ? Experienced with full software development life-cycle, object-oriented design, object-oriented programming and database design.  ? Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python/Django, PHP, C++, HTML, DHTML, CSS, XML, JavaScript and Angular.js.  ? Developed various shellscripts and pythonscripts to automate Spark jobs and hive scripts.  ? Extensive experience interacting with business users and working with BA team in requirements gathering.  ? Good experience in developing web applications and implementing Model View Control (MVC) architecture using server-side applications Django, Flask and Pyramid.  ? Extensive experience with multiple technologies like Python 3.4/2.7, Perl 5.1, C++, Shell Scripting, core Java and C.  ? Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python) Architecture.  ? Experience in implementing PEP8 coding standards.  ? Developed internal auxiliary web apps using Python Flask framework with CSS / HTML framework and Working Knowledge of Pandas, Numpy, Scipy.  ? Experience in tuning and debuggingSpark application and using spark optimization techniques.  ? Proficient in writing unit testing code using UnitTest/pytest and integrating the test code with the build process.  ? Good working experience in using version control systems Git and GitHub.  ? Good knowledge on front end frameworks like CSS Bootstrap.  ? Used Scala to convert Hive/SQL queries into RDD transformations in Apache Spark.  ? Expertise in working with different databases like MySQL, PostgreSQL, Oracle and good knowledge in using NoSQL databases like Apache Cassandra, MongoDB (2.6,2.4)  ? Good understanding of Object-Oriented Technologies and Relational Database Systems.  ? Experience in writing Subqueries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  ? Developed Automation testing suite using Python and Robot Framework.  ? Sound experience in Core Java and Object-Oriented Programming using concepts like Multi-Threading, Exception Handling and Collections.  ? Performed data cleaning and feature selection using MLlib package in PySpark.  ? Fused them for messaging.  ? Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache.  ? Hands on experience with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins and version control tools such as Git, SVN, CVS, and JIRA.  ? Good experience of software development in Python (libraries used: libraries- Beautiful Soup, NumPy, SciPy, matplotlib, SQLAlchemy, python-twitter, Pandas data frame, network, urllib2, wxPython).  ? Good Knowledge of using IDE Tools like IDLE, PyCharm, Eclipse, Net Beans, PyStudio and Sublime Text.  ? Developed Restful microservices using Flask and Django and deployed on AWS servers using EBS and EC2  ? Expertise in MVW frameworks like Django, Angular JS, Java Script, jQuery and Node.js.  ? Planning and Implementing Disaster Recovery and Fault for AWS services.  ? Setting up AWS Cloud watch and Custom Metrics for AWS services  ? Created S3 buckets and managed policies using IAM roles for S3 buckets and used S3  bucket and Glacier for storing historical data.  ? Setting up AWS RDS (AZ-Failover and Read replicas)  ? Automating Infrastructure using multiple AWS Cloud formation templates and updating the resources with the help of helper scripts.  ? Implementing AWS Cloud Front for the newly built websites. Work Experience Sr. Python Developer NIKE - Manassas, VA February 2016 to Present Responsibilities:    ? Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create user-friendly website interface.  ? Developed dynamic web pages using python Django Frameworks.  ? Used Mongo DB-NoSQL database for storing the information.  ? Extensively implemented the python libraries like Pandas, Matplotlib, Numpy, to manipulate and visualize the data using interactive charts.  ? Create and implement data loading solutions using SSIS, T-SQL from our large pool of clients into our databases for data cleansing  ? Managed and reviewed Hadoop log file and worked in analyzing SQL scripts and designed the solution for the process using PySpark.  ? Features for dashboard were developed and tested using CSS, AngularJS and Bootstrap.  ? Developed forms using HTML and performing client side validations using JavaScript, JQuery and Bootstrap.  ? Used REST based microservices with REST template based on RESTful APIs and designed, developed the UI for the client websites by using HTML, CSS, jQuery and React.js  ? Designed, developed, implemented, and maintained solutions for using Git and GitHub for microservice and continuous deployment.  ? Hands on experience in SVN, Git, JIRA, Bugzilla.  ? Cleansing data generated from weblogs with automated scripts in Python.  ? Developed Python /Django application for Google Analytics aggregation and reporting.  Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  ? Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users. Involved in analyzing Hadoop cluster using Hadoop Distributed file system (HDFS) in data analytics process including Ma Reduce, HBase, Hive etc  ? Used SVN repository for software configuration management and version control.  ? Used JIRA for tracking and Updating Project issue.  ? Used data structures like directories, tuples, object oriented class based inheritance features for making complex algorithms of networks.  ? Great hands on experience with Pyspark for using Spark libiries by using python scripting for data analysis  ? Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) for improved efficiency of storage and fast access.  ? Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud. Involved in front end and utilized Bootstrap and Angular.js for page design.  ? Maintained technical documentation for resolved issues for future reference  ? Used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  ? Implementing customer data collection with PySpark/Hadoop analytics  ? Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation.  ? Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures on MYSQL.  ? Also, used Bootstrap as a mechanism to manage and organize the html page layout. Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters  ? Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud. Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis.  ? Worked very closely with designer, tightly integrating Flash into the CMS with the use of Flashvars stored in the Django models. Also, created XML with Django to be used by the Flash.  ? Used HTML, CSS, JQuery, JSON and JavaScript for front end applications.  ? Extensively used the advanced features of PL/SQL Records, Tables, Object Types and Dynamic SQL.  ? Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  ? Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile).  ? Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.    Environment: Amazon AWS S3, MySQL, spark, pyspark, HTML, ETL, Python 2.7, PL/SQL, Django 1.8, HTML5, CSS, XML, MySQL, MS SQL Server, JavaScript, AWS, Linux, Shell Scripting, AJAX. Sr. Python Developer Cox Automotive, Inc - Atlanta, GA February 2014 to January 2016 Responsibilities:    ? Participated in the complete SDLC process and used PHP to develop website functionality.  ? Coding in LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and PHP) environment.  ? Developed GUI HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS 5 and JavaScript (jQuery).  ? Worked mainly on Core Java, C++, STL, data structures, UNIX, multithreading.  ? Built application logic using Python 2.7.  ? Used Apache Couchdb (NoSQL) in AWS Linux instance in parallel to RDS MySQL to store and analyze job market info.  ? Good working experience in processing large datasets with Spark using Scala and PySpark. Strong experience in migration of existing on premises servers to AWS cloud using VM Import Export service and AWS CLI.  ? Involved in Unit testing and Integration testing.  ? Hands on experience in developing SPARK applications using Spark API's like Spark core, SparkStreaming, Spark MLlib and Spark SQL and worked with different file formats such as Text, Sequence files, Avro, ORC, JSON and Parquette.  ? Developed ColdFusion Components, custom tags and modified CF Objects.  ? Wrote AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Datatables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings.  ? Part of R&D team to build new analytics POC's using Apache Spark, Scala,Used Django framework for application development.  ? Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language and Good working experience in processing large datasets with Spark using Scala and PySpark.  ? Running Robot Framework on Python using the ipybot runner script  ? Designed, developed, implemented, and maintained solutions for using Docker, Jenkins, Git, and Puppet for microservices and continuous deployment.  ? Used Graphical User Interface Testing and API driven Testing  ? Used several python libraries like wxPython, numPY and matPlotLib.  ? Using features that supportcomplex data structures, first class functions by using PERL  ? Experience in working on Freeform Calculation, and Lasso and Radial Selection by using Tableau  ? Implementing Robot Framework using python.  ? Developed Spark scripts by using Scala shell commands as per the requirement.  ? Developed presentation layer components using ASP.NET.  ? Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  ? Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  ? Generated property list for every application dynamically using python.  ? Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  ? Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  ? Build all database mapping classes using Django models and Cassandra.  ? Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  ? Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash  ? Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  ? Created Python and Bash tools to increase efficiency of call center application system and operations; data conversion scripts, AMQP/RabbitMQ, REST, JSON, and CRUD scripts for API Integration.  ? Created server monitoring daemon with Psutil, supported by Django app for analytics which I created. Also researched big data solutions with Cassandra database    Environment: Python 2.7, scipy, Pandas, SVN, C++, Java, JQuery, MySQL, Spark, Scala, Linux, Eclipse, Shell Scripting, Angular JS, HTML5/CSS. Red hat Linux, Apache. Python Developer Polaris Solutions - New York, NY May 2011 to December 2014 Responsibilities:  ? Worked extensively on the Python based proprietary framework Quartz.  ? Performed efficient delivery of code based on principles of Test Driven Development(TDD) and continuous integration to keep in line with Agile Software Methodology principles.  ? Implemented large scale data processing of trade and position level information, by using a custom built MapReduce engine.  ? Enabled logging to export logs to cloud watch by creating cloud watch log groups and grant EC2 instance access to write the logs log groups using AWS IAM role.  ? Implemented and consumed Task Schedulers for scheduling job priority while distributing data and map/reduce functions over Grid.  ? Created time sensitive scripts to parse to large sets of serialized, unstructured data objects (30 Million), filtering and reducing data into functional reports.  ? Worked on a large scale distributed computing environment, monitoring data nodes to prioritize jobs for processing functions.  ? Used existing Deal Model in Python to inherit and create object data structure for regulatory reporting.  ? Involved in environment, code installation as well as the SVN implementation.  ? Used standard Python modules e.g. csv, robotparser, itertools, pickle, jinja2, lxml for development.  ? Created modules to transform incoming XML trade data into trade objects, parse trade data and create outbound FPML (Financial Products Markup Language) sent to DTCC repositories.  ? Model View Control architecture is implemented using Django Framework to develop web applications.  ? Used IBM DB2 SQL stored procedures and UNIX Shell Scripts for importing/exporting Data and Conversions.  ? Used REST microservices with REST template based on RESTful APIs and designed, developed the UI for the client websites by using HTML, CSS, jQuery and React.js  ? Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash  ? Developed scripts to migrate data from proprietary database to PostgreSQL.  ? Implemented continuous integration using Jenkins and involved in the deployment of application with Ansible automation engine.  ? Created backend database T-SQL stored procedures and Jasper Reports.  ? Created Django dashboard with custom look and feel for end user after a careful study of Django admin site and dashboard.  ? Worked on Jenkins continuous integration tool for deployment of project.  ? Deployed the project into Jenkins using GIT version control system.  ? Developed Application to access JSON and XML from Restful, WebServices from consumer side using JavaScript and Angular.JS.  ? Actively worked as a part of team with managers and other staff to meet the goals of the project in the stipulated time.  ? Ensured high quality data collection and maintaining the integrity of the data.  ? Developed object-oriented programming to enhance company product management.    Environment: Python, Django, AWS, Angular Js, Jenkins, Docker, HTML5/CSS, XML, MySQL, JQuery, JavaScript, JSON, Ajax, Spark, Scala. Software Developer Ericsson December 2008 to April 2011 New jersey, NJ  Responsibilities:    ? Used HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON designed and developed the user interface of the website.  ? Wrapper developed in Python to run this application along with other applications.  ? Wrote python scripts to parse XML and JSON reports and load the information in database.  ? Handle UI and server-side programming.  ? Created, activated and programmed in Anaconda environment. Wrote programs for performance calculations using NumPy and SQL Alchemy.  ? Used security groups, network ACL's, internet gateways and route tables to ensure a secure zone for organization in AWS public cloud.  ? Parsers written in Python for extracting useful data from the design data base.  ? Development of XMLs for several components which maintains data for several registers  ? Development of data structures, xml parsing using Python.  ? Used REST based micro services with REST template based on RESTful ANGULAR JSs and designed, developed the UI for the client websites by using HTML, CSS, jQuery andReact.js.  ? Usage of advance features like pickle/unpickle in python for sharing the information across the applications  ? Representation of the system in hierarchy form by defining the components, subcomponents using Python and developed set of library functions over the system based on the user needs.  ? Creating Python based micro services and refactoring/enhancing exiting services.  ? Involved in Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  ? Configured an AWS Virtual Private Cloud (VPC) and Database subnet group for isolation of resources within AWS RDS.  ? For the manipulation of data from the database various queries using SQL were written and created a database using MYSQL.  ? Worked on Jenkins continuous integration tool for deployment of project. Played a key role in a development wide transition from Subversion to Git, which resulted in increase in efficiency for the development community  ? Deployed the project into Heroku using GIT version control system.    Environment: HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON, XML, JSON, NumPy, SQL Alchemy, Perl, AWS, REST, RESTful ANGULAR JSs, HTML, CSS, jQuery, MYSQL, GIT Python Developer Mercedes Benz Credit Corporation - Seattle, WA March 2006 to April 2008 Responsibilities:    ? Participated in the complete SDLC process and used PHP to develop website functionality.  ? Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS, BIG DATA and JavaScript.  ? Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  ? Designed and developed Use-Case, Class and Object Diagrams using UML Rational Rose for  ? Object Oriented Analysis/Object Oriented Design techniques.  ? Designed and developed data management system using MySQL. Built application logic using Python.  ? Used Django APIs for database access.  ? Provided GUI utilizing PyQt for the end user to create, modify and view reports based on client data.  ? Angular.js is used to build efficient backend for client web application.  ? Used Python to extract information from XML files.  ? Expertise in Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) and its related technologies like Web Services,  ? BPEL, WSDLs, SOAP, XML, XSD, XSLT etc.  ? Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures on MYSQL.  ? Developed shopping cart for Library and integrated web services to access the payment (E=commerce)  ? Designed and developed a horizontally scalable APIs using Python Flask.  ? Designed Cassandra schema for the APIs.  ? Implemented monitoring and established best practices around using elastic search.    Environment: Python, JavaScript, Django Framework, CSS, SQL, MySQL, LAMP, JQuery, Adobe,  Dreamweaver, Apache web server. Education Masters In Computer Engineering in Computer Engineering IIT KGP December 2000 Skills DJANGO (9 years), HTML (10+ years), PYTHON (10+ years), SQL (5 years), jQuery (6 years), C, Flask, Javascript, AWS, Java Additional Information Skills:: PYTHON (8+ Years)DJANGO (5 years), HTML (7 years), SQL (6 years), WEB SERVICES (6 years), jQuery (6 years),  AWS(5+Years)