Python developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">developer</span> Python developer - Baker Hughes, Huston, TX Houston, TX 5 yearsof experience in the field of IT with in Designing, Developing, Testing, and Deployment of various applications and coding using Python, Django and Java.  • Good Experience with Django and Flask web framework.  • Proficient in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, Flask, Webapp2, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, Bootstrap.  • Experience in working with Python ORM Libraries including Django ORM.  • Experience on working with complex List Comprehensions and python inbuilt functions such as Map, Filter and Lambda.  • Good experience in developing web applications implementing MVT/MVC architecture using Django, Flask and Webapp2 web application frameworks.  • Experience with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins • Experience in handling REST and SOAP Web Services.  • Developed internal auxiliary web apps using Python Flask framework with CSS3 / HTML5 framework and Working Knowledge of Pandas, NumPy, SciPy.  • Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, Python/PHP) Architecture.  • Proficient in developing complex SQL Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, Functions, and Packages along with performing DDL and DML operations on the database.  • Experience with Design, code, and debug operations, reporting, data analysis and web applications utilizing Python.  • Experience in implementing PEP8 coding standards.  • Experience in working on Application Servers like WebSphere, WebLogic, Tomcat, Web Servers like Apache Server, NGINX and Integrated Development Environments like PyCharm, Eclipse.  • Experience configuring and developing with different Database servers including MySQL, MSSQL, Oracle and MongoDB.  • Skilled in writing and reviewing requirements, architecture documents, test plans, design, documents, quality analysis and audits.  • Experienced with full software development life-cycle, object-oriented design, object-oriented programming and database design.  • Experienced with full Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), architecting scalable platforms, object-oriented programming, database design and agile methodologies.  • Good amount of experience in handling errors/exceptions and debugging issues in large scale applications.  • Excellent analytical and problem-solving skills with efficient time management and result oriented attitude.  • Good interpersonal, very hands on attitude and approach, intrusive, Self-determined to assimilate and progress.  • Dedicated to tasks and provide good results and a good team player with strong communication skills.  • Willingness to work in a highly dynamic environment and ready to take up challenges Work Experience Python developer Baker Hughes, Huston, TX September 2017 to Present Baker Hughes, a GE company is the world's first and only full stream provider of integrated oilfield products, services and digital solutions. Drawing on a storied heritage of invention, BHGE harnesses the passion and experience of its people to enhance productivity across the oil and gas value chain. BHGE helps its customers acquire, transport and refine hydrocarbons more efficiently, productively and safely, with a smaller environmental footprint and at lower cost per barrel.  Responsibilities: • WrotePython Scripts to update the content in database and manipulate files.  • Developed web-based application using Django framework with python concepts.  • Generated python Django forms to maintain the record of online users.  • Used APIs to access the database.  • Worked on serverside applications with Django using python programming.  • Developed tools to automate some base tasks using python Shell scripting and XML.  • Developed the required JSON Schema documents and implemented the framework forparsing XML documents.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using python on Django Web  Framework.  • Experienced in using advanced PostgreSQL/MYSQL features like table partitioning and diverse types of oracle indexing. Backup and Restore experience with PostgreSQL/MYSQL database backups and point in time recovery.  Designed the user interactive web pages as the front-end part of the web application using various web technologies like HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Experience in writing python scripts to migrate data from one database to the other  UIS system design( python,Object Oriented Design approach, developing various modules/packages/utilities, e.g.: Cryptography - Encryption/Hashing, Foundation  Utilities, error/exception management etc.  • Participated in requirement gathering and worked closely with the architect indesigningand modeling.  • Issues pertaining to real time data being read from RabbitMQ into Postgres and Cassandra.  • Experience in Performing theDesign and Code reviews.  • Writing Unit tests for every developed code.    EnvironmentPython, Django, REST API, HTML5/CSS, PostgreSQL, MySQL,Linux,GitHub. Python Developer Anthem - Atlanta, GA October 2016 to August 2017 Anthem, Inc. is one of the largest health benefits companies in the United States. Through its affiliated health plans, Anthem companies deliver a number of leading health benefit solutions through a broad portfolio of integrated health care plans and related services, along with a wide range of specialty products such as life and disability insurance benefits, dental, vision, behavioral health benefit services, as well as long term care insurance.  Responsibilities: ? Developed views and templates with python and Django view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  ? Collect data that introspects the performance of query and update operations on a MongoDB instance.  ? Managed datasets using Panda data framesand MongoDB. Queried the databasequeriesusing python ? Recorded the online users data using python Django forms and implemented test caseusing pyunit.  ? Developed the application using the Test-Driven methodology and designed the unit tests using python Unit test framework.  ? Involved in working with python open stock APIs.  Creating endpoints to post data and to consume data from sources.  ? Design, develop, and deploy engaging web applications using python.  ? Wrote python code embedded with JSON and XML to produce HTTP GET request, parsing HTML data from websites.  ? Wrote python code to simplify lists in python with list comprehension and Python OOP.  POSTMAN for API testing. Developed REST API's and created User Modelfor application.  ? Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Jenkins, Oracleand custom tools developed in python.  ? Responsible for setting up python REST API framework using Django.  ? Developed web applications in Django Framework model view control (MVC) architecture.  ? Used python to write data into JSON files for testing Django Websites. Created scripts for data modelling and data import and export.  ? Thorough knowledge in various frontend tools like HTML, CSS, JavaScript, XML, JSON.    Environment:  Python, HTML5, CSS3, JSON, Apache Web Server, Django, MongoDB, Linux, Oracle, GIT, JIRA. Python AT&T - El Segundo, CA December 2015 to 2016 AT&T Inc. is an American multinational conglomerate holding company headquartered at Whitacre Tower in Downtown Dallas, Texas.It is the world's largest telecommunications company, the second largest provider of mobile telephone services, and the largest provider of fixed telephone services in the United States through AT&T Communications.    Responsibilities: • Developed Views and Templates with Flask view controller and template language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Writing end points to post data or consume data from other sources.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS JavaScript • Created APIs, database Model and Views Utilization python to build responsive web page application.  • Used GitHub for python source code version control, Jenkins for automating the build  Docker containers, and deploying in Mesos.  • Migrated the Django database from SQLite3 to MySQL with complete data integrity.  • Performed Unit testing, Integration Testing, GUI and web application testing using  Unit Test Module.  • Worked on Jenkins continuous integration tool for deployment of project.  • Experience in project deployment using Heroku/Jenkins and using web services like Amazon Web Services (AWS) EC2, AWS S3, Autoscaling, CloudWatch and SNS.  • Used python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Worked on frontend and backend modules using python on Django Web Framework.  • Implemented and enhanced CRUD operations for the applications using the MVC (Model View Controller) architecture of Django framework and python conducting code reviews.  • Wrote python modules to extract/load asset data from the MySQL source database.  • wrote several queries to extract/store data fromdatabase.    Environment: Python, MySQL,HTML, CSS, JavaScript,Jenkins, Docker containers, Django, Flask, Heroku, GitHub, Amazon Web Services (AWS) EC2, AWS S3. Jr. Software developer Augusta - Bengaluru, Karnataka June 2014 to July 2015 Responsibilities: • Involved in Designing the Database Schema and writing the complex SQL queries.  • Rewrite existing code from C++, Java to Python.  • Designing and establishing the process and mapping the functional requirement to theworkflow process.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  • Rewrote existing Python modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Designed and developed data management system using MS SQL.  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile).  • Executed and coordinated the installation for the project.  • Worked on web-based reporting system withHTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Involved in Maintenance and Enhancement of the project.  • Created database using MS SQL, wrote several queries to extractdata fromdatabase.  • Created specific images using python Imaging Library for the custom images used foreachbook.  • Wrote scripts in python for extracting data from HTML file.  • Used Git version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Effectively communicated with the external vendors to resolve queries.  • Good knowledge on NumPy and SciPy Libraries.  • Handling the day to day issues and fine tuning the applications for enhanced performance.  • Worked in development of applications especially in Linux environment and familiar with all its commands.  • Experience in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM Process.    Environment: Python, C++, Java, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, MS SQL, GIT, Linux, JIRA. Education Master of Science in Computer Science NP University - Fremont, CA Skills CSS (3 years), Django (2 years), HTML (3 years), JavaScript. (3 years), Python (3 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Programming Languages Python, SQL, Java, C++, C  Web Technologies HTML, CSS, JavaScript, XML, JSON, Bootstrap  Databases MS SQL, MySQL, Oracle, PostgreSQL, MongoDB  Deployment Tools Heroku, Amazon EC2, Docker  Protocols TCP/IP, HTTP, SNMP, SMTP  Methodologies Agile and Waterfall  Webserver ApacheHTTPwebserver, WebLogic, WebSphereand Apache Tomcat  Frameworks Django, Flask  Bug Reporting tools Bugzilla, JIRA