Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - Dell Computer Corporation Boston, MA ? Professional 13+ years of experience as a Web/Application Developer and coding with analytical programming using Python, Django, Flask and C++, BIG DATA.   ? Experience object oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, C++ and PHP.   ? Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, DJANGO, BIG DATA, GTK, QT, C++, XML, CSS3, HTML5, DHTML, JavaScript and JQuery.   ? Experience with Web Development, Amazon Web Services, Python and the Django framework.   ? Open-source ESB, BIG DATA, REST, APIs and cloud integrations in Python.   ? Very good experience with cloud platforms like Amazon AWS and Google App Engine.   ? Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache and Siebel.   ? Experienced in MVW frameworks like Django, Angular.js, Java Script, backbone.js, JQuery and Node.js.   ? Familiar with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services.   ? Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.   ? Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache.   ? Experience in creating Open stack services for Identity, Compute, Image Service, Block Storage, Networking (Neutron, Keystone).   ? Good knowledge of web services with protocols SOAP and REST.   ? Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL and Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, Python/PHP) Architecture.   ? Experienced in Python's modules for generating complex graphical data, creation of histograms etc.   ? Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, PHP, XML, CSS, HTML, Java Script and JQuery.   ? Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache.   ? Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.   ? Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on SQL and Postgre SQL database.   ? Worked in agile and waterfall methodologies with high quality deliverables delivered on-time.   ? Maintained detailed documentation and architectural solutions in IT infrastructure and sales systems.   ? Very strong full life cycle application development experience.   ? Experience with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins   ? Experience with Unit testing/ Test driven Development (TDD), Load Testing..   ? Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.   ? Involved in Unit testing and Integration testing.   ? Extensive use of Linux (Ubuntu),SSH, Flask/Django   ? Developed ColdFusion Components, custom tags and modified CF Objects.   ? Worked on AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP serializable JSON Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Python Developer Dell Computer Corporation - Boston, MA January 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Participated in requirement gathering and worked closely with the architect in designing and modeling.  ? Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  ? Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML, BIG DATA to automate some of the menial tasks.  ? Used PyQt for the functionality filtering of columns helping customers to effectively view their transactions and statements. Implemented navigation rules for the application and page.  ? Performed testing using Django's Test Module.  ? Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  ? Involved in Web development, programming, and engineering Django, UWSGI and SQL internal admin tools behave BDD.  ? Used Python and Django to interface with the JQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  ? Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  ? Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture  ? Creation of Python scripts for data access and analysis (Scripts, DataFeeds, XLS, FIXML) to aid in process and system monitoring, and reporting.  ? Rewrite existing Java application in Python module to deliver certain format of data.  ? Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  ? Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python.  ? Also used Bootstrap and Angular.js as a mechanism to manage and organize the HTML page layout.  ? Responsible for search engine optimization to improve the visibility of the website.  ? Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML5, XHTML, AJAX, CSS3, BIG DATA and JavaScript.  ? Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  ? Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  ? Created a Git repository and added the project to GitHub.  ? Build development environment with JIRA.  ? Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  ? Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  ? Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  Environment: Python, Django, Java, Angular.js, Bootstrap, AWS, Bash, PyQt, XML, Shell Scripting, MySQL, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, Jenkins, Apache Web Server, Linux Sr. Python Developer Liberty Mutual Insurance - Boston, MA December 2013 to January 2016 Responsibilities:  ? Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  ? Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  ? Developed Business Logic using Python on Django Web Framework.  ? Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  ? Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  ? Used JQuery and Ajax calls for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  ? Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web based solution.  ? Used Python based GUI components for the front end functionality such as selection criteria,  ? Created test harness to enable comprehensive testing utilizing Python.  ? Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) for improved efficiency of storage and fast access.  ? Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  ? Involved in front end and utilized Bootstrap and Angular.js for page design.  ? Created Data tables utilizing PyQt to display customer and policy information and add, delete, update customer records  ? Used PyQuery for selecting particular DOM elements when parsing HTML.  ? Used Wireshark, live http headers, and Fiddler debugging proxy to debug the Flash object and help the developer create a functional component.  ? Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  ? Having very good experience with BIG DATA  ? Created Business Logic using Python to create Planning and Tracking functions  ? Created UI Screens for initiation and validation.  ? Worked on UI using HTML5, CSS3 and Java Scripts.  ? Developed multi-threaded standalone app in Python and PHP to view performance.  ? Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis.  ? Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  ? Working in team of Architects and Developers to build and deploy Python Flask Peewee Linux AWS.  ? Version control using GITHub.  ? Involved in writing stored procedures using MySQL.  ? Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  Environment: Python, Django, Shell Scripting, AWS, Pandas, PyQt, PyQuery, Wireshark, Flash, DOM, JSON, PHP, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JavaScript, Angular.js, Bootstrap, Apache Web Server, MYSQL, GitHub, LINUX. Software Developer Innovative Solutions - Reston, VA November 2010 to December 2013 Responsibilities:  ? Designed and developed Use-Case Diagrams, Class Diagrams, Object Diagrams using UML Rational Rose for OOA/OOD techniques.  ? Programmed the components using C/C++.  ? Software release to internal clients by compiling the code into C/C++ libraries and implementing the APIs.  ? Created UI using HTML CSS and Javascript.  ? Created Servlets and Beans to implement Business Logic.  ? Used SAX/DOM Parser for parsing the data to Oracle Database.  ? Implemented the presentation layer with HTML, DHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  ? Designed object model, data model, tables, constraints, necessary stored procedures, functions, triggers, and packages for Oracle Database.  ? Designed and created backend data access modules using PL/SQL stored procedures and Oracle.  ? Developed and executed User Acceptance Testing portion of test plan.  ? Debugging Software for Bugs.  ? Participated in the complete SDLC process.  ? Developed rich user interface using CSS, HTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  ? Used Django framework for application development.  ? Created entire application using Python, MySQL and Linux  ? Enhanced existing automated solutions, such as the Editorial Tool for automated request reporting and the Who's Who site, by adding new features and fixing bugs.  ? Created database using MySQL, wrote several queries to extract/store data.  ? Used Perforce for the version control.  Environment: C, C++, HTML, CSS, Shell Scripting, PL/SQL, JDBC, PVCS, Oracle, Linux and Windows, Python, Django, MySQL, Windows, Linux, HTML, CSS, JQuery, JavaScript, Apache, Linux, Perforce Python Developer Mercedes Benz Credit Corporation, North - Seattle, WA October 2007 to November 2010 Responsibilities:  ? Participated in the complete SDLC process and used PHP to develop website functionality.  ? Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS, BIG DATA and JavaScript.  ? Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  ? Designed and developed Use-Case, Class and Object Diagrams using UML Rational Rose for Object Oriented Analysis/Object Oriented Design techniques.  ? Designed and developed data management system using MySQL. Built application logic using Python.  ? Used Django APIs for database access.  ? Provided GUI utilizing PyQt for the end user to create, modify and view reports based on client data.  ? Angular.js is used to build efficient backend for client web application.  ? Used Python to extract information from XML files.  ? Expertise in Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) and its related technologies like Web Services, BPEL, WSDLs, SOAP, XML, XSD, XSLT etc.  ? Participated in requirement gathering and worked closely with the architect in designing and modeling.  ? Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures on MYSQL.  ? Developed shopping cart for Library and integrated web services to access the payment (E-commerce)  ? Designed and developed a horizontally scalable APIs using Python Flask.  ? Designed Cassandra schema for the APIs.  ? Implemented monitoring and established best practices around using elastic search.  ? Effectively communicated with the external vendors to resolve queries.  ? Used GIT for the version control.  Environment: Python, JavaScript, Django Framework, CSS, SQL, MySQL, LAMP, JQuery, Adobe Dreamweaver, Apache web server. Python Developer GE Energy, North - Seattle, WA September 2005 to October 2007 Responsibilities:  ? Worked with team of developers on Python applications for RISK management.  ? Made Django web based apps for Insurance premium calculations.  ? Designed the architecture of the hardware environments and methodology of the code  ? Done Job scheduling, batch-job scheduling and process control, forking and cloning of jobs and checking the status of the jobs using shell scripting.  ? Used Python OS module on UNIX environment, made job cloning and forking.  ? Responsible for search engine optimization to improve the visibility of the website.  ? Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  ? Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using JSON.  ? Used Unit Test Python library for testing many Python programs and block of codes.  ? Used HTML, CSS, JQuery, JSON and Javascript for front end applications.  ? Involved in testing RESTFull API like Twilio, Facebook and Twitter.  ? Designed and developed data management system using MySQL. Involved in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM Process.  ? Participated in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  ? Participated in the complete SDLC process.  ? Implementing and extending functionality of Cisco Cloud Services and Open stack Horizon using Python, Django, Django REST framework, JavaScript, HTML, JQuery, CSS, and Angular.JS.  ? Create and enhanced existing automated solutions.  ? Parse JSON and XML data using Python.  ? Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  ? Implementation under Red Hat, CentOS7, Ubuntu, and Windows 7, both locally and on Cisco Cloud.  ? Team working and version control using Gerrit.  Environment: Python, Django, XML, Java, Apache, CSS, MySQL, JSON, DHTML, HTML, JavaScript, Shell Scripts, Gerrit, bugging,agile, Restfull, UNIX and Windows Program Analyst Bitra Net Pvt. Ltd - Denver, CO August 2003 to September 2005 Responsibilities:  ? Work with team of developers on python applications for RISK management.  ? Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website.  ? Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript  ? Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  ? Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  ? Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  ? Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  ? Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  ? Expertise in writing Constraints, Indexes, Views, Stored Procedures, Cursors, Triggers and User Defined function.  ? I have also used Selenium Library to write fully functioning test automation process that allowed the simulation of submitting different we requests from multiple browser to web application.  ? Used JQuery for all client side Java script manipulation.  ? Created unit test/regression test framework for working/new code  ? Using Subversion control tool to coordinate team-development.  ? Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  ? Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  ? Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  Environment: Python, Django, MySQL, Linux, HTML, XHTML, SVN, CSS, AJAX, Bugzilla, JavaScript, Apache Web Server, Django Education Bachelor's Skills Apache (10+ years), Django (10+ years), HTML (10+ years), JavaScript (10+ years), MYSQL (10+ years) Additional Information Technical Skills:    Languages Python C++, Java, Shell Script, Perl, SQL, BIG DATA  Python Framework Django  Databases MySQL , SQL Server 2008, Oracle 10g  Web Technologies AJAX, JavaScript, HTML, DHTML, XHTML, XML  Versioning Tools Subversion, GIT, Perforce, SVN, CVS  Web servers Apache, IIS  Operating systems Linux/Unix, Windows