Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer ? Over all 11 years of experience in software development  ? Over 7+ years of experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Management and Implementation of various stand-alone, client-server enterprise applications using Python 2.7, Django, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript  ? Experience in Python Libraries Beautiful Soup, numpy, scipy, matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas data frame, network, urllib2, MySql dB for database connectivity and IDEs - sublime text, Spyder, pycharm.  ? Experience in object oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, Django and Linux.  ? Familiar with JSON based REST Web services.  ? Created a Python/Django based web application using Python scripting for data processing, MySql for the database, and HTML/CSS/JQuery and High Charts for data visualization of the served pages.  ? Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  ? Proficient in SQL databases MS SQL, MySql, Oracle and no-SQL databases MongoDB  ? Extensive experience with Object Oriented Design and SDLC methodologies using Rational Rose, Unified Modelling Language (UML).  ? Experience in Shell Scripting, UNIX and Linux.  ? Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  ? Experienced in MVC frameworks like Django, Flask and Pyramid.  ? Followed Agile Methodologies (Scrum), involved in daily stand-up meetings. Work Experience Python Developer Walmart Labs June 2016 to November 2017 Wal-Mart E-commerce is American based company which comprises of Walmart.com, Sam's club.com, VUDU, Wal-Mart Grocery. Our project is basically about developing a web application for VUDU services using Html, CSS, and JavaScript with providing cross platform functionality. This project involves developing and maintaining critical services facilitating members to register, upgrade, edit, renew etc. membership in Sam's Club.  Roles and Responsibilities:    ? Designed and developed an API (RESTful Web Service).  ? Performed backend tasks from OPS up to the REST API interface/Portal frontend.  ? Development of Python APIs to dump the array structures in the Processor at the failure point for debugging.  ? Creating restful web services for Catalog and Pricing with Django MVT, MySQL and MongoDB.  ? Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django and VMWare API calls.  ? Developed user interface using CSS, HTML, Bootstrap, JavaScript and JQuery.  ? Developed and designed e-mail marketing campaigns using HTML and CSS.  ? Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript.  ? Lock mechanisms were implemented using multithreading.  ? Implemented Python normalizations scripts to find duplicate data in different environments.  ? Responsible for user validations on client side as well as server side.  ? Automated the existing scripts for performance calculations using Numpy and SQLAlchemy.  ? Used GIT and JENKINS for continuous integration and deployment. Python Developer Disney Vacation Club January 2014 to June 2016 January 2014 to June 2016  Role: Python Developer  The Walt Disney Company, commonly known as Disney, is an American diversified multinational mass media and entertainment conglomerate. It owns many theme parks all over the world. Disney's ticketing system is way of helping people purchase their ideal tickets. customers can choose normal park ticket, annual ticket and special event tickets. Customer can select the number, type and age of the tickets. Responsible for the Southwest website ticketing process to the passengers from booking to the confirmation process.    Roles and Responsibilities:  ? Involved in requirement gathering, analysis and design.  ? Developed rich user interface using CSS, HTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  ? Used JSON for serialization, transmitting structured data over a network.  ? Used Django, Flask and web2py frameworks for different internal applications.  ? Worked on NoSQL database like MongoDB  ? Deployed production site using Apache 2.0 with mod_ python.  ? Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  ? Successfully migrated Django database from SQLite to MySQL to Postgres SQL with complete data integrity.  ? Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  ? Using Django evolution and manual SQL modifications was able to modify Django models while retaining all data, while site was in production mode.  ? Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  ? Integrated the application with different internal system.  ? Used SVN for the version control.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django, FLASK, Web2py, MySQL, MAC OS X, Shell Script, HTML, CSS, JQuery, AJAX, JavaScript, GIT. Python Developer AIG January 2012 to November 2013 AIG is an American multinational insurance corporation. It's mainly focuses on global capital markets operations, direct investment and retained interests. It offers a range of general insurance products including Insurance for automobile, home, personal accident, travel, energy, marine, property and casualty as well as several specialized financial lines.    Roles and Responsibilities:  ? Involved in requirement gathering, analysis and design.  ? Designed the front end of the application using Python.  ? Design and development of user interfaces and client displays using Java Script, CSS and troubleshoot various issues in Python code and fix them with code enhancements- code used various python libraries such as PyJamas and Jython.  ? Built various graphs for business decision making using Python matplotlib library.  ? Developed server-side application and server-side validations using Django framework.  ? Performed validations for input fields making use of mainly Active Records.  ? Implemented MVC architecture in developing the web application using Django framework.  ? Built various graphs for business decision making using Python Matplotlib library.  ? Fetched twitter feeds for certain important keyword using python-twitter library  ? Analysis and Design of application.  ? Implemented business logic using Python/Django.  Environment: Python, Web2py, MySQL, HTML, CSS, JQuery, AJAX, JavaScript, PyJamas, Bootstrap, SVN, Apache. Python Developer Pfizer March 2010 to January 2012 Pfizer, Inc. is an American multinational pharmaceutical corporation headquartered in New York City and with its research headquarters in Groton, Connecticut, United States. It is one of the world's largest pharmaceutical companies by revenues. Pfizer develops and produces medicines and vaccines for a wide range of conditions including in the areas of immunology, neuroscience and pain. Develop the MiSeq Experiment Management System (MMS) for Pfizer.  Roles and Responsibilities:  ? Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing, deployment and Implementation of various stand-alone, client-server enterprise applications.  ? Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  ? Developed rich user interface using CSS, HTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  ? Created JSON for storing and exchanging information between browsers and servers.  ? Used RESTful Web Services to read the XML content from suppliers.  ? Wrote scripts to Import and Export data to CSV, EXCEL formats from different environments using Python for Cron jobs.  ? Performed validations for input fields making use of mainly Active Records.  ? Involved with bug fixing on functionality, performance and designing issues with JavaScript and JQuery.  Environment: Python, MySQL, HTML, CSS, JQuery, AJAX, JavaScript, Bootstrap, Django Database API's SVN, Apache. Software Engineer Idea Cellular March 2009 to February 2010 Worked as a Python Developer for IDEA cellular project. It deals with web applications development for maintaining and accessing subscriber database called as Subscriber Management System. Maintaining of subscriber databases, HLR data and analyzing them for traffic control using Python.    Roles and Responsibilities:  ? Implemented Business logic using Python.  ? Design of server applications and client interfaces using Python, HTML and Django.  ? Performed frontend designing using HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  ? Developed Python based API (RESTful Web Service) to track the events and perform analysis using Django.  ? Manipulation and fetching of data using CRUD operations on SQL Database.  ? Wrote Python scripts to parse XML, JSON data and load the data in database  ? Processing of collected data using Python Pandas and Numpy packages for statistical analysis.  ? Used Python REGEX to match and find data.  ? Developed automated scripts using Python, Shell Scripting for data collection and transfer to databases.  ? Worked on UI using HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  ? Used Git for version control.  Environment: Python, MySQL, HTML, CSS, JQuery, JavaScript, java. Software Engineer Ryder June 2006 to April 2009 Ryder Systems, Inc is leading-edge transportation, logistics and supply chain management solutions worldwide. Ryder serves customer needs throughout North America and in Latin America. For 76 years, Ryder has earned high marks of serving customers in a timely, cost-effective and reliable manner. Ryder's Product offerings include: Fleet Management Solutions (FMS), which provides leasing, rental and programmed maintenance of trucks, tractors and trailers to commercial customers; Supply Chain Solutions (SCS) and Dedicated Contract Carriage (DDC)    Roles and Responsibilities:  ? Monitored and troubleshot web applications.  ? Evaluated complex reports and queries based on inputs received from users; using RPG III as well as RPG IV (AS400) ILE.  ? Performed technical analysis and development of conversion programs on the AS400.  ? Design, code, debug, document and maintain large complex financial applications on an AS/400.  ? Use of RPG, RPG Free, Sequel Reports, embedded SQL, Aldon.  ? Analyzed and written high-quality code as per specifications.  ? Created and transferred Excel files to and from AS/400 and Mainframe Databases.  ? AS/400 Helpdesk support for IT dept. using Outlook to coordinate with users.  ? Using Query/400 and SQL/400 for research data manipulation and reports.  ? Analyzing the current issues and documenting them for team future reference.    Environment: IBM AS/400, CL/400, CLLE, RPG/400, RPGLE, COBOL/400, DB2/400, SDA, PDM, DFU, QUERY /400, SQL, ALDON. Education MCA in Computer Applications Andhra University 2005 Skills CSS (8 years), Html (8 years), JQuery. (8 years), Python (8 years), SQL (6 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Operating systems: Windows, Linux Ubuntu, Red hat Linux  Languages: Python  Python Libraries: Beautiful Soup, numpy, scipy, matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas, urllib2  Web Technologies: CSS, Java Script, JQuery, Shell Scripting  Mark-up languages: HTML, XML  Servers: Apache Tomcat, IBM Web sphere, WebLogic  Databases: Oracle, My SQL  IDEs/ Tools: Eclipse, Spyder, PyCharm, NetBeans, PyDev, RIDE  Version Control: CVS, GitHub, Git  Bug Tracking Tools: JIRA, Bugzilla, Rational Clear-quest