Lead Python Developer - Data Engineering Lead <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> - Data Engineering Lead Python Developer - Data Engineering - Regions Bank Fairfield, AL • 10+ years of experience in Web/Application Development in analytical programming using python with skills in analysis, design, development, testing and deploying software applications  • Good experience using various python libraries to speed up development (libraries used: Beautiful Soup, SciPy, Matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas data frame, network, urllib2, MySQL dB for database connectivity, JSON libraries).  • Involved in Developing a Restful service using python Flask framework.  • I understand and experienced with the following; Plone, Pyramid, Django, Angular PostgreSQL, ZODB, Key Value Stores, Couchdb, Couchbase, Linux, Nginx, Varnish, ReactJS and Odoo.  • Good knowledge about frameworks such as Bootstrap and Foundation.  • Excellent Experience on various Python integrated IDE's such as Sublime Text, Pycharm, Eclipse and NetBeans.  • Experience in working on various python packages such as NumPy, SQL Alchemy, Pyside, SciPy, and PyTables.  • Expertise in usage of Django Framework for developing web applications.  • Good knowledge in establishing database connections for Python by configuring packages MySQL- Python.  • Made Django web based apps for Insurance premium calculations.  Developed entire frontend and back-end modules using python on Django Web Framework with GIT.  • Experience in developing web applications by following Model View Control (MVC) Architecture using server side application Django.  • Strong experience in Data Analysis, Data Migration, Data Cleansing, Transformation, Integration, Data Import, and Data exportusing multiple ETL tools such as Ab Initio and Informatica Power Center.  • Develop Extract-Transform-Load (ETL) packages using SSIS to insert datasets to SQL server and generate project reports using SSRS and SQL.  • Experience in Installing, upgrading, and configuring RedHat Linux4.x, 5.x, 6.x and 7.x using Kickstart Servers.  • Experienced in implementing Puppet, Chef. Worked on Data-Center operation and migration across UNIX and Linux platforms.  • Experience with automated CM and maintained a CI/CD pipeline, deployment tools such as Chef, Puppet, or Ansible.  • Experience in managing virtual instances and disks using Puppet.  • Experience in Creation and managing user accounts, security, rights, disk space and process monitoring in Solaris and Red hat Linux.  • Experienced in implementing and maintaining an Apache Tomcat /MySQL/PHP, LDAP, LAMP web service environment.  • Experienced in migrate an On-premises VM or Azure Classic VM to Azure ARM Subscription with Azure Site Recovery.  • Hands on experience in configuring and supporting site-to-site and remote access Cisco, IPSec, VPN solutions using ASA/PIX firewalls, Cisco, and VPN client.  • Experience in Multi-Tier distributed Enterprise applications.  • Extensive experience in system analysis, design, development, and implementation of web based and client/server application using HTML, Angular JS, underscore JS, Node JS, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, JSP, JDBC, XML, XSLT, Python, Django, PHP.  • Working knowledge in multi-tiered distributed environment, OOAD concepts, good understanding of Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC).  • Developed Java/J2ee applications using Hibernate, XML, Android, XSLT, and Basic ASP.net applications including using Core Java concepts like OOPS, Multithreading, Garbage Collections, and Collection etc.  • Experience in Implementation of MVC/ MVW architecture using Servlet, Django, and RESTful, SOAP web service and SOAPUI.  • Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing, and deploying applications with Apache, Tomcat, and Web Sphere.  • Extensively followed development methodologies such as Agile (SCRUM), Water Fall.  • Excellent Experience of Databases such as MySQL, Oracle 8g/9g/10g, Microsoft SQL Server, PostgreSQL, SQL/PLSQL concepts.  • Good Knowledge of using IDE Tools like Eclipse, NetBeans, Android Studio, Visual Studio, IDLE.  • Experience on Ruby Reg-Ex for pattern and Text matching.  • Good command on full life cycle application development.  • Designed and developed video and blogging website on PHP using Word Press on wamp server using MySQL database.  • Experience with continuous integration and automation using JENKINS.  • Developed ColdFusion Components, custom tags, and modified CF Objects.  • Experience with Unit testing/ Test driven Development (TDD), Load Testing in JIRA, JENKIN.  • Wrote AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Lead Python Developer - Data Engineering Regions Bank - Birmingham, AL July 2015 to Present Description: As per regulations related to AML every day data must be feed to the Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) of the US Department of the Treasury administers feed record. In this project data from different line of business (Home Loans / Home Equity) must be extracted and sent it to the AML LOB in Regions bank.  Roles & Responsibilities:  • Developed Python based micro service to extract the data from system of records into Enterprise Data warehousing.  • Developed another micro service to extract AML data from Enterprise Data warehousing and push to external systems in JSON format.  • All these batch micro services are written in Python utilizing distributed message passing via Kafka message broker with JSON as data exchange formats.  • All these four micro services are deployed in Mesos cluster in AWS using Jenkins, Marathon, and Chronos.  • Debugging the application and following messages in log files, to figure out the error if existing.  • Developed monitoring application which captures the error related data and store it in database  • Involved in storing binary data using Couchbase and CouchDB Server.  • Involved in tokenizing the sensitive data before archiving in AWSS3 using REST based Enterprise Tokenization service, and encrypting the data before sending it over wire to external systems.  • Assisted with development of web applications Flask, Pyramid, Django, Plone.  • Developed Views and Templates with Python using Django's view controller and template language.  • Written wrapper scripts to automate deployment of cookbooks on nodes and running the chef client on them in a Chef-Solo environment.  • Converting production support scripts to chef, testing of cookbooks with chef-spec.  • Used Puppet server and workstation to manage and configure nodes.  • Responsible for large-scale Puppet implementation and maintenance. Puppet manifests creation, testing and implementation.  • Used SVN for branching, tagging, and merging.  • Setup Puppet master, client and wrote scripts to deploy applications on Dev, QA, production environment.  • Built an Interface between Django and Salesforce and Django with RESTAPI.  • Refactored existing batch jobs and migrated existing legacy extracts from Informatica to Python based micro services and deployed in AWS with minimal downtime.  • Involved in the setting up of Micro services in HA (Highly Availability) for resiliency.  • Used REST&SOAP to test web services.  • Developed Database Models in PostgreSQL.  • Developed Stored Procedures in PostgreSQL.  • Used GitHub for Python source code version control, Jenkins for automating the build docker containers, and deploying in Mesos.  • Performed unit testing using unit test and Nose, etc. Python unit testing frameworks.  • Created applications for software package, software framework and hardware platform using SDK  • Involved in service based RESTful technologies.  • Created a web service and provided its information to the service registry and made the information regarding the web service available to any potential requester using SOA.  • Assisted with development of internal APIs using PHP7, Laravel, and MySQL  • Performed in page caching using Nginx, Varnish.  • Assisted with writing effective user stories and divide the stories into SCRUM tasks.  Environment: Python, Boto3, Flask, Pyramid, Django, Plone, Docker, Mesos, SOA, REST, Chronos, Kafka, JSON, GitHub, Nginx, Varnish, LINUX. Lead Python Developer - Data Engineering Velocis Technologies - Plano, TX January 2013 to June 2015 Description: Velocis is fast, reliable, and agile, company started a pilot project. The main concentration is build amazing products/services powered by the Internet. Daily businesses are sent as a batch file from the company to make the transactions. Free Bird processes these files and process the transactions from respective channels such as ACH, EFT, and EDI payments  Roles & Responsibilities:  • The system is a full micro services architecture written in Python utilizing distributed message passing via Kafka with JSON as data exchange formats.  • Created 6 micro services that has the capability to transfer the input files to machine readable format and pass through respective payment channels.  • Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, jQueryand RESTAPI calls.  • Did full-page caching well using Varnish and could handle massive traffic without breaking a sweat.  • Experienced in taking advantage of Nginx in combination with Apache by using it as a reverse proxy.  • Supported development of Web portals, completed Database Modelling in PostgreSQL, front end support in HTML/CSS, jQuery.  • Debugging the application and following messages in log files, to figure out the error if existing.  • Designed and maintained databases using Python and developed Python based API (RESTful Web Service) using Flask, SQL Alchemy, and PostgreSQL.  • Involved in analyzing the problems using transaction breakdown, network monitoring and resource monitoring to find the performance bottleneck.  • Maintained and monitored frameworks like Django, flask  • Developed monitoring application which captures the error related data and store it in database.  • Involved in scrubbing project, which updates the existing data with hashed values.  • Reverse engineer and re-implement legacy back-end software into Python with minimal downtime.  • Work closely with project leads to learn about the Azure services, environment deployment, and integration with tooling.  • Used GitHub as a version control.  • Worked on UNIX environment.  • Written complex SQL queries for data validation based on ETL mapping specifications.  • Optimized system performance and managed the API lifecycle  • Performed unit testing.  • Extensively worked on writing UNIX shell scripts for scheduling the sessions for my testing process of ETL.  • Worked closely with leads in implementation exposure on service based, SOA, RESTful technologies.  • Strong experience in developing Micro-services using Dropwizard, Spring Boot, Lagom.  • Work experience with Java Frameworks like spring, Hibernate.  Environment: Python, Drop wizard, Spring Boot, Lagom, Kafka, JSON, GitHub, LINUX, Django, Flask, Varnish, Nginx SOA, RESTful. Sr. Python Developer Wells Fargo - West Des Moines, IA November 2011 to December 2012 Description: Wells Fargo is an American bank holding company specializing in credit cards, home loans, auto loans, banking, and savings products. This project required data movement from the online systems to different downstream departments for decision and reporting purposes using PL/SQL, Autosys, PERL and Data stage. Worked on varies python Modules and packages, Using Django MVC framework to develop the Web Application, Database modeling and design.  Roles & Responsibilities:  • Simple web app for reviewing sitcoms that gives users the ability to view, add, review, up/down vote, search, etc.  • Developed in Windows and going to deploy it in Linux server.  • Utilized Active Record eager loading to improve rendering time of index pages, incorporated up/down voting, reviewing, and several custom sorting methods for shows to provide smooth user experience.  • Supported the development of BI portal with development in SQL.  • Designed satcom solutions for Vertical markets, conducted POCs for DSNGs with major media houses and channels.  • Cross-referenced Seat Geek and Spotify APIs to get album artwork and track previews for each artist  • Boston concert aggregator that provides a comprehensive list of shows in Boston with track previews, album artwork, tagging, up/down voting, and more to help users find the best show in town.  • Support customers with SDK-usage and design related queries, and create high quality collateral (samples, notebooks, etc.)  • Implementation exposure on service based, SOA, RESTful technologies.  • Experienced in RSpec, Git, Object-oriented programming, MySQL, JavaScript, jQuery and, Amazon Web Services, Knockout.  Environment: Oracle Database 11g/10g, TOAD, UNIX, PUTTY, PVCS, WinSCP, UNIX, PL/SQL, UNIX, Windows NT/XP, SOA. Python Developer/ Build Release Engineer CMC - Hyderabad, Telangana August 2010 to October 2011 dev Ops  Description: CMC Limited is an information technology services, consulting, and software company. Responsible for Business Development, Solution Design, Managing Service partners, Lead Generation, Proposal Development, Develop BOM & SOW on Site Meeting, BOM, Managing POCs, and Training Delivery. Market Intelligence, Customer Acquisition, developing new products and solutions, Development using Python/Django, HTML/CSS, JavaScript, Database modelling using PostgreSQL.  Roles & Responsibilities:  • Created a portable fully automated test tool, allowing 24/7 integration support for two development sites around the world and decreasing code turnaround time from 4 hours to 1 hour  • Automated the daily and weekly build process to allow us to build daily builds twice a day for faster turnaround time for submitted code changes  • Automated the code release process, bring the total time for code releases from 8 hours to 1 hour  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Implemented a review process in integration automation using Review Board and Gerrit that eliminated the need for a 5 hour per week daily approval meeting  • Developed a web tool that monitors and drives the automated continuous integration system allowing release managers to track changes  • Played a key role in a department wide transition from Subversion to Git, which resulted in an increase in efficiency for the development community  • Developed a Coverity mail script that extracts code defects data per component for a daily report to drive reducing defects in the codebase.  • Created modern, REST APIs from existing information assets.  • Manage a technician that oversees automation and carries out daily tasks.  • Designed and maintained databases using Python and developed Python based API (RESTful Web Service) using Flask, SQL Alchemy, and PostgreSQL.  Environment: Python, JSON, GitHub, LINUX. Python Developer IDirect Technologies - IN December 2006 to June 2010 Responsibilities:  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Java and Python using Web Frameworks.  • Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using python.  • Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  • Used Eclipse as IDE tool for creating JSPs, Servlets, EJBs, and XML.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  • Build SQL queries implementing functions, packages, views, triggers, and tables.  • Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Handling the day-to-day issues and fine-tuning the applications for enhanced performance.  • Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all its commands.  Environment: Java, Python, Struts 1.2, Django 1.0, MySQL, Linux, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, SQL, MySQL, Apache Web Server, UNIX. Education Master's Skills LINUX. (10+ years), MySQL (8 years), Python (10+ years), SQL (8 years), version control (8 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Operating Systems Unix, Linux, Windows, and Mac  Programming Languages Python and PL/SQL  Databases Oracle 10/11g, MySQL, SQL Server, and PostgreSQL  Tools Intellij, PyCharm, FileZilla, PL/SQL Developer, and TOAD  Integration Tools Jenkins and Web Builder  Version Control GitHub and SVN  Defect Tracking JIRA, Git, and VersionOne  Cloud  VPC creation, EC2 instance, S3 buckets, RDS instances, Amazon command line, cloudFront, IAM, creating security groups, managing S3 object lifecycle, creating CDN, implementing S3 security & Encryption, Route53, working with databases and DNS, Using bootstrap scripts, AWS EC2 and S3