Senior Python Developer Senior <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Python Developer - Dow Jones Columbus, OH • Sun Certified Java Programmer with 9+ years of versatile experience in Software Development Life Cycle. Analysis, design, development and implementation of software applications.  • Expertise in Object Oriented Concepts, Object Oriented Design (OOD), Object Oriented Analysis (OOA) Programming.  • Experience in Object Oriented Design and Programming concepts in Java and Python  • Having experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Vast experience with Core Java and J2EE using most of the advanced features of Java including JDBC, Spring, Struts, EJB, Servlets, Hibernate.  • Strong command in JavaScript leading Frameworks Team like Angular.js, React.js, backbone.js, bootstrap.js, Node.Js and Projects UI Designing Team.  • Excellent knowledge and experience in Oracle Database, JDBC, DB2, PL/SQL, MS SQL Server, My SQL Server, Mongo DB.  • Experience working in various Software Development Methodologies like Waterfall, Agile SCRUM and TDD.  • Expertise in integrated environment for java such as Eclipse, MyEclipse, RAD, NetBeans, ClearCase and VSS.  • Experience in developing and implementing Web Services using REST, SOAP, WSDL  • Hands on UML compliant high level design with data flow diagram, Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams, Activity Diagram and Use Cases and documenting for peer developer.    CORE TECH SKILLS  • Java, J2EE, Python, Django, Spring, Hibernate, Ibatis, Struts, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Angular.js, React.JS, Node.js, bootstrap.js, backbone.js, JDBC, C, C++. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Python Developer Dow Jones - New York, NY August 2015 to Present Dow Jones & Company is an American publishing and financial information firm that has been owned by News Corp. The project deals with building up of new web-sites.  Background Skills:  Java, J2EE, Python, Django, Spring, Hibernate, JSP, Angular.js, React.JS, Node.js, bootstrap.js, backbone.js, Ibatis, HTML, Javascript, CSS, XML, WebLogic, WebServices, SOAP, Cassandra, Hadoop, PL/SQL, Junit, Oracle, MySql, REST, SOA, Git, Github, Selenium, RAD, Agile, UML, CVS, Eclipse.    Accountabilities:  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Worked on designing, coding and developing the application in Python using Django MVC.  • Experience in working with Python ORM Libraries including Django ORM,  • Worked on integrating python with Web development tools and Web Services.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Wrote scripts in Python for extracting data from HTML file.  • Utilize PyUnit, the Python Unit test framework, for all Python applications.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  • Rewrote existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Worked on several python packages  • Proficient in developing Web Services (SOAP, RESTful) in Python using XML, JSON.  • Experience in implementing and working on the python code using shell scripting. Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes.  • Implemented REST APIs using Python and Django framework.  • Developed web-based applications using Python, Django, XML, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, AngularJS and jQuery.  • Worked on WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, Python /PHP) Architecture.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to created user-friendly website interface.  • Review Requirement, develop technical design documents and create a prototype of the critical business application using JAVA/J2EE Initiated use of HttpUnit, Selenium IDE for testing.  • Worked with J2EE and J2SE technologies including JSP, Java Web Start, and Weblogic.  • Design and develop new features in website using Java/J2EE under Santana Framework and enhance existing features. Refactoring code, redesign current design.  • Working on Java/J2EE framework APIs like Spring, iBatis and Hibernate.  • Used Java/J2EE Design patterns like Business Delegate and Data Transfer Object (DTO) in the project which facilitates clean distribution of roles and responsibilities across various layers of processing.  • Prepare Java/J2EE development structure for Rational Application Developer.  • Developed front end using Angular.js, React.JS, Node.js, bootstrap.js, backbone.js, JavaScript, where back end is java with REST webservice.  • Worked on the MySQL migration project to make the system completely independent of the database being used. Used Spring IBatis to implement this.  • Created a Rich Single Page Application using HTML, CSS, JSP, JSON, Angularjs, React.js, Node.js, bootstrap.js, backbone.js.  • Created Oracle database tables, stored procedures, sequences, triggers, views  • Create new PL/SQL stored procedures for new Oracle Forms and Reports development  • Web development including standardizing the toolsets used from Eclipse to using Git for source control  • Used Github repository for version control.  • Created and deployed web pages using HTML, JSP, JavaScript and CSS.  • Developed Web based Dynamic Form Builder using HTML, CSS, JavaScript Object-to-XML.  • Used REST WebServices for creating rate summary and used WSDL and SOAP messages for getting insurance plans from different module and used XML parsers for data retrieval  • Consumed Restful Webservices where the transmission of data is in JSON format.  • Designed and Developed REST WebServices to interact with various business sectors and used SOAP protocol for webservices communication  • Extensively worked on Application servers like Weblogic and Apache Tomcat. Senior Python Developer Sovereign Bancorp - Boston, MA June 2014 to July 2015 Sovereign Bancorp offers an array of financial services and products including retail banking, mortgages, corporate banking, cash management, credit card, capital markets, trust and wealth management, and insurance.  Background Skills:  Java, J2EE, Python, Django, Hibernate, Spring, Angular.js, Node.js, bootstrap.js, backbone.js, JSP, Struts, JDBC, WSAD WebSphere Studio Application Devloper, HTML, CSS, JQuery, Javascript, XML, Servlet, WEBSERVICES, Websphere, SOAP, PL/SQL, JSF, PHP, JMS, Junit, EJB, DB2, CRUD, MongoDB, MySQL MS SQL, Oracle, Apache CXF, REST, SOA, Apache Tomcat, Linux, Eclipse, Scrum, Subversion SVN, UML, Class diagram, JSTL, Maven.    Accountabilities:  • Developed web applications and RESTful web services and APIs using Python, Django and PHP.  • Experience with Django, a high-level Python Web framework.  • Automated JIRA processes using Python and bash scripts.  • To fetch data of definite options that are selected, Python routines were written to log into websites.  • Automated AWS S3 data upload / download using Python scripts.  • Responsible for setting up Python REST API framework using DJANGO.  • Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  • Created Python and Bash tools to increase efficiency of application system  • Developing Python Framework using Django to perform scan software unit monitoring.  • Design and development of user interfaces and client displays using Java Script, CSS and troubleshoot various issues in Python code and fix them with code enhancements- code used various python libraries such as Jython  • Built various graphs for business decision making using Python matplotlib library.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript  • Built various graphs for business decision making using Python library.  • Implemented business logic using Python/Django  • Responsible for setting up Python REST API framework using Django.  • Implement code in python to retrieve and manipulate data.  • Worked on ElementTree XML API in python to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Created entire application using Python, Django, MySQL and Linux.  • Worked on python based test frameworks and test driven development with automation tools.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, MySQL, Jerkins, and custom tools developed in Python.  • Worked on server side applications with Django using Python programming.  • Utilized standard Python modules such as csv, itertools and pickle for development.  • Worked on Python OpenStack APIs and used Numpy for Numerical analysis.  • Implemented the application using the concrete principles laid down by several Java/J2EE Design patterns like Business Delegate, MVC, Session Façade, Factory Method, Service Locator, Singleton and Data Transfer Objects (DTO).  • Development of Web (Intranet) database-driven and GIS Java/J2EE applications for Oracle databases.  • Involved in multi-tiered J2EE design utilizing MVC architecture Spring, Struts, Hibernate and EJB deployed on Websphere Application Server connecting to an Oracle database.  • Developed and configured the Java beans using Struts MVC and Hibernate.  • Leading JavaScript Frameworks Team like Angular.js, backbone.js, bootstrap.js, Node.js.  • Providing a responsive, AJAX-driven design using JavaScript libraries such as JavaScript, jQuery, backbone.js, Node.js AngularJS and Bootstrap.js - Using Subversion for version control.  • Built a RESTful API to save and retrieve geolocations using a remote server in Java using Spring, MongoDB, Apache CXF, and JAX-RS.  • Developed user interface using JSP, JSTL and Custom Tag Libraries and AJAX to speed the application.  • OOP in PHP to extend or update functionalities. The project uses MySQL as the database.  • Involved in Development of the application Using J2EE Technologies (Servlets, JSP, EJB, JSF, Struts).  • Developed the base framework using Java, JSP, Struts, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, Oracle and MS SQL Server.  • Involved in user interface development using JSTL.  • Technology leadership for the direction of the Cloud based application using Node.JS, PDFJS, Sencha, MongoDB and MS SQL Server integrating to a proprietary framework.  • Creation of REST WebServices for the management of data using Apache CXF (JAX-RS)  • Developed HTML, CSS, Javascript and JSP pages for user interaction and data presentation.  • Used JDBC to connect to the information model tier.  • Create webservice component using REST, SOAP, WSDL, XML and XSLT to interact with the middleware  • Used Webservices - WSDL and SOAP for getting credit card information from third party.  • Used XML WebServices using SOAP to transfer the amount to transfer application that is remote and global to different financial institutions.  • Worked in RDBMS implementation using, SQL, PL/SQL, DB2, MySQL on Oracle database.  • Worked with Oracle RDBMS for writing complex queries and PL/SQL, SQL for Stored Procedures, Triggers and Events, for generating some important responses needed by the application at times.  • Performed Validations on UI data using JSF validators and JavaScript.  • Developed interfaces and their implementation classes to communicate with the mid-tier (services) using JMS.  • Performed J2EE application deployment using JBoss application server on Windows and Linux  • Performed Unit Testing and developed Unit Test Classes using JUNIT  • Writing JUnit test/Integration test cases for asserting functional quality. Senior Python Java Developer Costco, California - March, California, US March 2013 to May 2014 Costco Wholesale Corporation is the largest American membership-only warehouse club. I specifically designed Verification page, Acknowledgement page and confirmation page. Apart from this I had to design the left panel which is included in all the pages and the display changes according to the page.    Background Skills:  Java, J2EE, Python, Django, Spring, Struts, JSF, JSP, EJB, DOJO, JQuery, Sencha ExtJS, JavaScript, GWT, MySQL, TOAD, SQL, DB2, coherence, APACHE AXIS2, Tomcat, WSDL, JBoss, Netbeans, Jasper report, Unix, Mercurial, ClearCase, Selenium, Water Fall Model, UML, Servlet, Ant, XML, iText, EMC Documentum, Jira, Swing, Cognos, iLog, JRules, Oracle ADF, Oracle BPM, Web 2.0, Linux, IBM MQ Series, Ruby, Wordpress, Drupal, Z, ASP, C, C++, Mainframe, COBOL, PL/I, JCL, SQL, SAS VB    Accountabilities:  • Managed datasets using data frames and MySQL, queried MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector MySQLdb package to retrieve information.  • Development of real-time multi-tasking systems using Python.  • Created data access modules in python.  • Designed and developed components using Python with Django framework. Implemented code in python to retrieve and manipulate data.  • sed Python & Django creating graphics, XML processing of documents, data exchange & business logic implementation between servers.  • Worked on development of backend services using Python, SQL and Linux. Created many API's for Iscrum project which involves creating and maintaining projects in an organization. and developed UI using HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed backend services and created many API's using Python Programming Language and SQL.  • Involved in developing a video calling application using python web-sockets.  • Performed research regarding Python Programming and its uses and efficiency.  • Used JSF messages for handling the error messages for the applications  • Preparation of the framework classes for communication between portal to EJB and Hibernate  • Used Spring for cross cutting concerns and IOC for dependency injection.  • Developed application service components and configured beans using Spring IoC, creation of Hibernate mapping files and generation of database schema.  • Prepared statements are used for communication with MySql database  • Involved in developing custom taglibs, JSP, EJB's, JQuery, Portlets and DB2 - stored procedures.  • Used TOAD for all database query testing and optimizations.  • Implemented CSS3, DOM Api, DOJO and Ajax to create a dynamic and interactive experience.  • Designed and implemented interface elements using GWT Google Web Toolkit.  • Integrate the Oracle BPM with the Spring Framework in the enterprise layer.  • Implemented the MVC architecture using Apache Struts Framework.  • Used Ant for developing build scripts and deploying the application onto WebLogic.  • Configured glassfish server; Design shipping rate template upload UI using Jasper report.  • Designed various design Workflow Modules using BPM (Business Process Modeler) to implement Business Logic and Business rules using Ilog, Jrules.  • Involved in developing and modifying the credit card, consumer loan business rules in ILog JRules  • Designed and Developed the input/output data formats in XSD for the WSDL files and accordingly implementing services using Apache AXIS2 . Used NetBeans IDE to develop the application.  • Used Mercurial to keep track of versioning of the source code  • Developed web presentation layer using jQuery, JavaScript, HTML and CSS according to internal standards and guidelines.  • Design of the process flow in Oracle BPM and jBPM to evaluate the difference between the behavior of different BPM tools  • Used Netbeans for development and WebLogic Application Server for deploying the web application.  • Developed framework using Java, BIRT Runtime, iText, MySQL and web server technologies.  • Oracle Database access was implemented through Hibernate framework. Also used Jasper reports and Jfree charts to generate various statistical reports.  • Worked with ILog Jrule engine, to trigger the business rules in the rules execution engine configured in WebLogic application server.  • Integrate the Oracle BPM with the Spring Framework in the enterprise layer.  • Designed and built it based on previous Classic ASP version. Upgraded its original database from Access to SQL.  • J2EE to communicate legacy COBOL based mainframe implementations.  • Client Services Rep for SEO company specializing in Web 2.0  • Built ASP.NET C# legal billing program that accepts barcode gun input. Also used javascript to advance from field to field after gun is clicked.  • Used Dojo for the client side development and validations  • Migration of the MVC based Reporting framework to GWT (Google Web Toolkit) using GWT-EXT.  • Collaboration technology planning, social media adoption and metrics, Web 2.0 strategy.  • Written Web services using Apache Axis2 and generated the WSDL.  • Rewrote code for enabling download as .pdf with new iText library for Java  • Worked with Rational ClearCase to provide sophisticated version control, workspace management and parallel development support. Build and maintained a Selenium Regression test suite.  • Developed Add, Edit and profile view web pages for the monitor module using JSP, JSF HTML, JSF CORE.  • Using JIRA to manage the issues/project work flow  • Involved in Installation & Configuration of Cognos in distributed environments on Solaris.  • Used JMS to pick xml file from IBM MQ series Queues and Parsed xml documents using DOM parsers to get data.  • Involved in writing Spring Configuration XML, file that contains declarations and business classes are wired-up to the frontend managed beans using Spring IOC pattern.  • Working Closely with EMC Documentum to implement Engineering Design Storage Repository and Project Document Management.  • Used JBoss application server to deploy application into Production environment.  • Configuring and analyzing JCL to execute mainframe batch.  • Took complete Ownership of JRules by developing the complete architecture and integration with TSM application.  • Performed J2EE application deployment using JBoss application server on Windows and Linux.  • Expose PL/I database access layer as web service using RD/Z  • Responsible for the design, development, unit testing, deployment and maintenance of COBOL and PL/I programs for two major projects:  • Coded scripts to clean normalize, reformat data for loading into the system using Ruby scripts  • Developed code usinf C, C++ for secure transaction. Java Developer Quest Diagnostics - Madison, NJ February 2012 to February 2013 Quest Diagnostics Incorporated is a corporation that provides clinical laboratory services. This system provides Patient Administration, Billing Management functions for the hospital. The major functions of Administration module are Allocating Registration, Recording Personal Details, assigning Insurance Details, Retrieving Patient history records from other hospitals. The Billing module allows Billing and receivables, looks into multiple modes of Payment and Rates Definition for Services.    Background Skills:  J2EE, Java, JSP, Servlet, JDBC, JavaScript, Struts, Hibernate, JUnit, HTML, JavaScript, WebSphere Application Server, WSAD, Oracle, TOAD, Spring, WSDL, Axis , tcpmon, Ant, WinCVS, Windows'XP, Aix-Unix.    Accountabilities:  • Involved in transforming the Use Cases into Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams and State diagrams.  • Involved in development of Web Services, creation of WSDL and schemas.  • Extensively participated on working with Spring framework. Involved in writing JSP and Servlets.  • Involved in development of Web Services, were developed to receive client requests.  • Implemented Spring JDBC template, Spring Exception Strategy and AOP.  • Involved in setting up WebSphere Application server and using Ant tool to build the application and deploy the application in WebSphere Application server.  • Design, Development and testing of Java framework to transfer data from application to CIS and also from CIS to application.  • Worked with the creation of Store Procedures. Involved in writing SQL queries, Stored Procedures to accomplish complex functionalities.  • Part of team creating quality working J2EE code to design, schedule, and cost to implement use cases.  • Developed Reusable classes in the middleware using Hibernate.  • Involved in writing lots of JSP for maintains and enhancements of the application. Worked on Front End using Servlets and also backend using EJB and Hibernate.  • Worked on Presentation Layer using Struts Tiles, JSPs and Servlets.  • Created quality working J2EE code to design, schedule, and cost to implement use cases.  • Setting of DB2 build settings in RAD application development server.  • Involved in writing the database integration code using Hibernate. Software Developer MERCK & CO - Kenilworth, NJ July 2010 to January 2012 Merck & Co., Inc. is one of the largest pharmaceutical companies in the world. Merck discovers, develops, manufactures and markets a broad range of innovative products to improve human and animal health directly and through its joint ventures.    Background Skills:  J2ee, Java, Jsp, Servlet, Jdbc, Struts, Junit, Log4j, Javascript, Dhtml, Websphere Application Server, Axis, Wsad, Xml, Xslt, Ant, Sql, Sql Query Analyzer, Jprobe, Cvs, Opprox Reports, Windows'xp, Unix-Ibm Aix.    Accountabilities:  • Developed the modules of Purchase Request, Purchase Order, Item Master modules.  • Involved in the Enhancement of Summarization module.  • Developed the web pages using JSP, CSS and HTML  • Developed the RTM interface module to map the requirements to the test-case and Test design modules  • Generic Tree Navigation control).  • Used several J2EE Design Patterns (Session Façade, Aggregate Entity) for the Middle Tier development.  • Developed EJBS (Session and Message-Driven Beans) in (RAD) for handling business processing, database access and asynchronous messaging.  • Made extensive use of Java Naming and Directory Interface (JNDI) for looking up enterprise beans.  • Developed Message-Driven beans in collaboration with Java Messaging Service (JMS).  • Involved in writing JSP/HTML/JavaScript and Servlets to generate dynamic web pages and web content.  • Wrote various stored procedures in PL/SQL and JDBC routines to update tables.  • Wrote various SQL queries for data retrieval using JDBC.  • Involved in building and parsing XML documents using SAX parser.  • Exposed business logic as a web service and developed WSDL files for describing these web services.  • Extensively used SOAP formatted messages for communication between web services.  • Developed the application on IBM WebSphere Application Server.  • Developed the plug-in interfaces for the TMS features (TEE, Requirements, Version Control)  • Developed Form Beans, which are used to store data when the user submits the HTML form  • Coded various Java beans to implement the business logic  • Development of GUI using AWT  • Involved in creating the tables using SQL and connectivity is done by JDBC  • Involved in generating the reports regarding the marks they secured in the online test once they press the submit button in the test using HTML and JSP.  • Apache Tomcat is used as an Application Server to Deploy the Application. Software Developer Tech Mahindra March 2008 to June 2010 NSM Automation: NSM (National SIM Manager) allows for ordering and preloading of SIM cards. It also maintains a database to show availability of SIM. Our team responsibility is to automate the entire ticking process and bring it to closure (Robotic automation). I am responsible for building Automation GUI development.    BACKGROUND SKILLS:  J2EE, Core Java, Unix Shell scripts Sybase ASE, Solaris, Linux Windows NT/XP, Eclipse, SVN, Putty, Ultra Edit, AJAX, JavaScript JBOSS.    ACCOUNTABILITIES:  • Involved in deploying the application with Struts Framework and Hibernate  • Involved in gathering business requirements, analyzing the project and created UML diagrams such as Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams and flowcharts for the Optimization module using Microsoft Visio.  • Implemented the AJAX, JSPs, and Servlets, in the MVC Struts Framework to effectively handle the workflow of the application  • Experienced in validation XML manually and programmatically  • Experienced in consuming third party Jars  • Designed and developed the User Interface using JSP, JSF, HTML, CSS and JavaScript  • Implemented Design Patterns like MVC, Session Facade and Data Transfer Objects  • Implemented WSDL XML document to located and describe the web services  • Developed Ant scripts to deploy EAR, WAR files for deployment into server  • Successfully executed all the test cases and fixed any bugs/issues identified during the test cycles  • Worked with Log4J for logging purpose in the project Education Master's Skills SQL (7 years), LINUX (6 years), UNIX (6 years), TOMCAT (6 years), ECLIPSE (5 years) Additional Information ADDITIONAL TECH SKILLS  • Oracle, SQL Server, MySQL, DB2, JBoss, WebSphere, Tomcat, Eclipse, Flex, RSA, NetBeans, Windows, Linux , Unix..