Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Dealertrack New York, NY • Over 8 years of IT experience in designing, developing, testing and implementing of various stand-alone and client-server architecture based enterprise application software in Python, Java.  • Experienced in developing MVT/MVC architecture based applications using Django, Flask, Web2py frameworks.  • Design and Developed Web Services, RESTful API's for Mobile Apps using Python Django-REST and Flask Frameworks on Nginx and Uwsgi servers.  • Experience in using new tools and technical developments such libraries- Beautiful Soup, Numpy, Scipy, Matplotlib,Pickle, PySide, Pandas Dataframe, urllib2 to drive improvements throughout entire software development lifecycle.  • Experienced in working with various Python Integrated Development Environments like Pycharm, PyScripter, Spyder and Sublime Text.  • Expert with JavaScript, JQuery, Ajax and HTML/CSS based UI development.  • Worked on AngularJS, JQuery and Bootstrap, Responsive Design for front-end framework.  • Strong Expertise in MySQL, Postgres and NO-SQL databases like Mongo DB and Couch DB.  • Experienced with databases using ORMs/DOMs for integrating with MySQL, Postgres, MongoDB.  • Experience in writing SubQueries, Stored Procedures,Triggers, Cursors and functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL databases.  • Expert at parsing, scripting, logging, migrating data and debugging.  • Experience with Cloud Services like Heroku, Google App Engine, Amazon AWS, EC2, S3.  • Hands on experience deploying projects in production and staging environment.  • Sound experience in Core Java and Object Oriented Programming using concepts like Multi-  Threading, Exception Handling and Collections.  • Experience working with version control tools such as GitHub, SVN. Bit bucket.  • Familiarity with development practices such as code reviews, unit testing and experience in designing the automation frameworks.  • Experience using container technology such as Docker.  • Mentored other developers in engineering , installation, configuration, testing and administration of Linux servers and coherent with shell scripting.  • Experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Dealertrack - Lake Success, NY March 2016 to Present Description: Dealertrack is part of COX Automotive Family which opens new doors to transform the world buy, sell, and own cars. This website features new functionality to greatly enhance the dealer's online experience, as part of "Dealertrack" enhancements dealers will be able to create credit applications, pull the credit bureaus of their customers and send that applications to suitable lenders for customers and everything is maintained in single deal.    Responsibilities:  • Designed front end and backend of the application using Python on Django Web Framework  • Used HTML, CSS Bootstrap, AJAX, JSON designed and developed the user interface of the website.  • Developed views and templates with Python OOD to create a user-friendly Website interface.  • Refactor Restful APIs and Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Implemented client side validation to avoid back and forward between server-client and provide better user experience using AngularJS.  • Utilized Python 3.4 libraries such as numpy, pandas and matplotlib to read data from csv files aggregate and update data  • Worked under Agile/Scrum environment and handled production rollouts and issues.  • Reviewed requirement documents with the business and development team to understand the architecture and functionality of the application and consolidated these requirements in appropriate modules in Test strategy.  • Collaborated with UI team to create web pages while ensuring visual quality and performance.  • Added support for AWS S3 by creating S3 buckets, managing policies and RDS to host static files into the Amazon cloud.  • Worked with search business team to implement dynamic rule updates to search using elastic search.  • Worked in NoSQL and MySQL database on queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization and renormalization.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse JSON documents and load the data in database.  • Wrote scripts to Import and Export data to CSV, EXCEL formats from different environments using Python for Cron jobs.  • Handled potential points of failure through error handling and communication of failure.  • Anticipated potential parts of failure( database, communication points, file system errors)  • Troubleshoot the process execution and worked with other team members to fix many Python bugs.  • Responsible for debugging project monitored on JIRA (Agile).  • Involved in Continuous Integration (CI) and Continuous Delivery (CD) process implementation using Jenkins along with Shell script.  • Developed Docker images to support Development, TestingTeams and their piplines.  • Worked on virtual and physical Linux hosts and involved in day to day administrative activities such as maintaining user accounts and providing advanced file permissions to specific users.  Environment: Python 3.4/2.7, Django 1.8,PyCharm, MySQL, MongoDB, AWS (EC2, S3), JIRA, JSON, Angular JS, Docker , Git, Jenkins, Linux    Role: Python Developer 10-2014-03-2016 Java/J2EE Developer Baya Tree Infocom Pvt Ltd April 2013 to February 2016 Responsibilities:  • Created and Reviewed UML diagrams using modeling tools.  • Implementation of Spring MVC Framework for development.  • Involved in analysis and development of admin tool and entitlement solution for user administration.  • Closely worked with Architect team to finalize the POC providing various technical and functional solutions needed in the project.  • Has done the code review and emphasized on better algorithm and design.  • Designed and developed UI using JavaScript, CSS, HTML and AJAX.  • Developed web services for the backend and to validate and save the KYC data.  • Build REST web service by building Node.js in the back-end to handle the requests sent from the front-end jQueryAjax calls.  • Worked on Oracle 9i Database  • Implemented the validation, error handling and caching framework with Oracle Coherence cache.  • Performed Analysis, Design and have basic knowledge of applications developed and maintained using Visual Basic and SQL Server.  Environment: Java, Java Beans, JSP, J2EE, Node.js windows-xp, Servlets, Netbeans 5.0, Web services, JavaScript, CSS, AJAX, EJB, Oracle 9i Python Developer Capital One - McLean, VA June 2012 to April 2013 Responsibilities:  • Developed front end of web application using AngularJS and other front end libraries and frameworks.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Engaged in Design, Development, Deployment, Testing, Implementation of the application using Design Patterns.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse JSON documents and load the data in database.  • Leveraged CSS Bootstrap for development of Web applications and used JQuery for the data manipulations on client side.  • Worked on development of SQL such as DML , DDL and stored procedures for normalization and renormalization in MYSQL.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  • Skilled in using Collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  • Experience in writing tests using Scala Tests, Selenium and others.  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile).  • Used Git version control and deployed project to Heroku.  • Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all of its commands.  • Configuring Chef to build up services and applications on the instances once they have been configured using cloud formation.  • Performed Test Automation and deployment of the project on UAT environment.    Environment: Python 2.7,Django 1.4, HTML5, CSS, MYSQL, JavaScript, JQuery, CSS Bootstrap, Pycharm, GitHub, Linux, Shell Scripting. Python Developer NBC Universal - New York, NY February 2010 to June 2012 Responsibilities:  • Worked closely with designer. Converted Photoshop images into XHTML/CSS, complex Flash integration.  • Created and helped deploy advertisements with Advert Serve.  • Started developing with Django 0.96 and currently developing with Django 1.0r  • Deployed production site using Apache 2.0 with mod python  • Upgraded Python 2.3 to Python 2.5 on a RHEL 4 server, this required recompiling mod python to use Python 2.5. This upgrade was necessary because in lined models with UTF-8 characters were causing unexpected errors. Submitted a ticket to the Django project documenting this incompatibility with Python 2.3.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to Postgres SQL with complete data integrity.  • Created solutions for publishing and conferencing toolkit using WordPress (PHP/MySQL) and JavaScript to allow easy uploading of video.  • Using Django and manual SQL modifications was able to modify Django models while retaining all data, while site was in production mode.  • The webpages for displaying the data uses AJAX to sort and display the data. The page also outputs data to .csv for viewing in Microsoft Excel.    Environment: Python 2.5, Django1.0, HTML,CSS Linux, Shell Scripting, Java Script, JQuery, JSON, XML, MySQL Java Developer Baya Tree Infocom Pvt Ltd February 2009 to February 2010 Client: Ace Hardware Corporation, India    Description: This is enhancement of Acehardware.com website with "My Store" pages. This website features new functionality to greatly enhance the consumer's online experience, as part of "My Store" enhancements consumers will be able to access their local store's information through online.  Responsibilities:    • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) such as requirements gathering, modeling, analysis, design and development.  • Generated Use case diagrams, Activity flow diagrams, Class diagrams and Object diagrams in the design phase.  • Designed UI screens using JSP, Struts tags and HTML. Used JavaScript for client side validation and developed the AJAX based modules.  • For Administrators provided Swing GUI to inspect the Database of the customers.  • Designed tables, scrollbars for inspection of the data  • Developed some web services using restful.  Environment: Window XP, Struts, JSP, Servlets,, XML, JDBC, JavaScript, UML, HTML, MySql. Education Bachelors in Computer Science in Computer Science JNTU 2005 to 2009 Skills AJAX (6 years), CSS (6 years), Django (4 years), HTML (6 years), MySQL (5 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:  Application servers Apache Tomcat, J Boss, WebLogic, WebSphere  Databases SQLite3, MySQL, PostgreSQL, Oracle (9i,10g,11g), MongoDB  Deployment Tools Heroku, Jenkins.  Frameworks Django, Flask, CSS Bootstrap and Struts  IDE's Eclipse, PyCharm, NetBeans and Sublime Text.  J2EE Technologies JSP, Java Servlets, JDBC and JMS.    Operating Systems Windows, Red hat Linux, MAC OSX.  Protocols TCP/IP, HTTP/HTTPS, SOAP, SMTP  Programming Languages Python, Java,C, Ruby,PHP, SQL and PL/SQL  Tools Bugzilla, JIRA, Rally  Version Control Git , SVN, CVS  Web Services AWS, Rackspace Cloud, Amazon S3  Web Technologies HTML, CSS, DOM, SAX, Java Script, JQuery, AJAX, XML, AngularJS