Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - PureTech Health Boston, MA Around 8 + Years of progressive experience in all the phases of software development life cycle including Design, development and implementation of software applications using Python, Elixir, Java/J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, Struts, JSP, PL/SQL, with over 7 years experience in HTML, XHTML, DHTML, CSS, XML, XSLT, Java Script, AJAX, Unix, Shell, Script, WebSphere, WebSphere Application Server, WebLogic Application Server, WebSphere Interchange Server, WebSphere MQ, WebSphere Message Broker, WebSphere Business Modeler, and WebSphere Business Monitor. Good Experience with System Integration architecture, Interface design and development.    • 8+ years of IT experience in Design, Development, Testing, and Deployment of various applications using Python/Django.  • Experienced with full software development life-cycle, object oriented design, object oriented programming and database design.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python/Django, PHP, C++, HTML, DHTML, CSS, XML, JavaScript and Angular.js.  • Good experience in developing web applications and implementing Model View Control (MVC) architecture using server side applications Django, Flask and Pyramid.  • Extensive experience with multiple technologies like Python 3.4/2.7, Perl 5.1, C++, Shell Scripting, core Java and C.  • Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, Python) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, Python) Architecture.  • Experience in implementing PEP8 coding standards.  • Developed internal auxiliary web apps using Python Flask framework with CSS / HTML framework and Working Knowledge of Pandas, Numpy, Scipy.  • Proficient in writing unit testing code using UnitTest/pytest and integrating the test code with the build process.  • Good knowledge on front end frameworks like CSS Bootstrap.  • Expertise in working with different databases like MySQL, PostgreSQL, Oracle and good knowledge in using NoSQL databases like Apache Cassandra, MongoDB (2.6,2.4)  • Good understanding of Object-Oriented Technologies and Relational Database Systems.  • Experience in writing Subqueries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Good knowledge in Ruby on Rails (Ruby 1.9.3 and Rails 4) in developing user friendly and effective web-based applications.  • Hands on experience in working with the Cassandra Query Language (CQL) for querying the data present in the Cassandra.  • Extensive experience in deploying, managing and developing MongoDB clusters and worked on Jenkins continuous integration tool for deployment of project.  • Sound experience in Core Java and Object Oriented Programming using concepts like Multi-Threading, Exception Handling and Collections.  • Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache.  • Hands on experience with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins and version control tools such as Git, SVN, CVS, JIRA.  • Good experience of software development in Python (libraries used: libraries- Beautiful Soup, NumPy, SciPy, matplotlib, SQLAlchemy, python-twitter, Pandas data frame, network, urllib2, wxPython).  • Good Knowledge of using IDE Tools like IDLE, PyCharm, Eclipse, NetBeans, PyStudio and Sublime Text.  • Expertise in MVW frameworks like Django, Angular JS, Java Script, JQuery and Node.js. Expertise in transforming the business requirement into executable collaboration flow modules.  • Has very good understanding of agile SCRUM methodology.  • Has strong communication and interpersonal skills and is a committed team player. Work Experience Sr. Python Developer PureTech Health - Boston, MA November 2014 to Present Responsibilities:  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators, and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Developed Business Logic using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Used JQuery and Ajax calls for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web based solution.  • Used Python based GUI components for the front end functionality such as selection criteria.  • Created test harness to enable comprehensive testing utilizing Python.  • Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) for improved efficiency of storage and fast access.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Involved in front end and utilized Bootstrap and Angular.js for page design.  • Created Data tables utilizing PyQt to display customer and policy information and add, delete, update customer records.  • Used PyQuery for selecting particular DOM elements when parsing HTML.  • Used Wireshark, live http headers, and Fiddler2 debugging proxy to debug the Flash object and help the developer create a functional component.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Created Business Logic using Python to create Planning and Tracking functions.  • Created UI Screens for initiation and validation.  • Worked on UI using HTML5, CSS3 and Java Scripts.  • Developed multi-threaded standalone app in Python and PHP to view performance.  • Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Working in team of Architects and Developers to build and deploy Python Flask Peewee Linux AWS.  • Version control using GITHub.  • Involved in writing stored procedures using MySQL.  • Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met. Involved in coding for JUnit Test cases.  • Developed common reusable component libraries (CRUD Scaffolding) to be reused in different projects throughout the company's IT team using GWT, Sencha, Spring data, JPA.  • Developed a smart rule engine for CAS that tracks, alerts, emails and generates Crystal/Jasper reports for decision-makers in a company about any customer-employee issue whenever the rule is applicable.  • Involved in designing the data stage job to implement ILOG JRules Component.  • Client Services Rep for SEO company specializing in Web 2.0    Environment: Python , Django, Shell Scripting, AWS, Pandas, PyQt, PyQuery, Wireshark, Flash, DOM, JSON, PHP, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JavaScript, Angular.js, Bootstrap, Apache Web Server, MYSQL, GitHub, LINUX.Sencha Extjs, Javascript, Oracle, Crud, Pl/Sql, Jdbc, Apache Cxf, Rest, Eclipse, Weblogic, Clearcase, Junit, Agile, Uml, Jsp, Jstl (Java Server Pagesstandard Tag Library), Servlet, Maven, Itext, Google Web Kit (Gwt), Jasper Report, Ilog, Web 2.0, Soa. Sr. Python Developer City Packing Company - Boston, MA May 2013 to October 2014 Responsibilities:  • Expertise in different WCS store Models(B2B, B2C, Supply Chain and Demand Chain) model.  • Configuring and managing Openstack components such as keystone, nova, neutron, glance, swift, Heat.  • Written Nova, Glance, Neutron, Cinder, Keystone, Hashborad, Swift, python client API to integrate with existing Application.  • Create a strategic architectural design of the platform with networking (vlans, firewalls, load balancers), hypervisors (kvm and VMware), workflow and orchestration (OpenStack APIs, Smart Cloud Orchestrator), security (keystone, LDAP), Inventory and monitoring, licensing, backup/restore.  • Understanding python files in openstack environment and make necessary changes if needed.  • Using Cinder to enable persistent storage for applications like databases deployed in Openstack  • Using Amazon EC2 command line interface along with Bash/ Python to automate repetitive work.  • Involved in Requirement gathering, Analysis, Design, Estimation and testing of the assigned tasks in Openstack.  • Implemented Rally openstack benchmarking tool on the entire cloud environment.  • Experience in reviewing Python code for running the troubleshooting test-cases and bug issues.  • Involved in Automated Openstack and AWS deployment using Cloud Formation, heat and Puppet.  • Working on several python packages like NumPy, Beautiful Soup, SQLAlchemy, PyTables etc.  • Involve in the developmentof the application using Python 3.3, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JSON and Jquery.  • Maintained and managed Puppet modules responsible for deploying Openstack and other cloud tools.  • Design roles and groups for users and resources using AWS Identity Access Management (IAM)  • Creating Cloud watch alerts for instances and using them in auto scaling launch configurations  • Develope Cloud infrastructure like compute, storage, and platform Restful services to implement OpenStack API  • Create a custom dashboard using JSF replacing an existing Horizon dashboard using the RESTful API provided by Openstack  • Used JSP, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, CSS3, and HTML5 as data and presentation layer technology  • Involve in intense User Interface (UI) operations and client side validations using AJAX toolkit.  • Developing applications using RESTFUL architecture using Node.js and PHP as backend languages.  • Designed Cloud Infrastructure as a Service environment using open source technology OpenStack to enable portability of cloud services across hybrid cloud environments.  • Experience with messaging solutions (e.g., ActiveMQ, RabbitMQ, and ZeroMQ)  • Design and development of user interfaces and client displays using Java Script, JSP, CSS and troubleshoot various issues in Python code and fix them with code enhancements- code used various python libraries such as PyJamas and Jython.  • Implementingmulti-tier application provisioning in OpenStack cloud, integrating it with Ansible/Puppet.  • Use python packages like cx_oracle, pyodbc and MySQL dB for working with Oracle, SQL Server and MySQL DB respectively.  • Design front end using UI, HTML, Bootstrap, Node JS, underscore JS, Angular JS, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django including Tastypie Web Framework using Git.  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation  • Develop consumer based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML, behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pair based programming.  • Design and developed data management system using PostgreSQL.  • Wrote Python OO Design code for manufacturing quality, monitoring, logging, and debugging code optimization.  • Build Back-end support for Application from ground up using Python, Shell scripts & Perl.  • Use the Model View controller (MVC) framework to build modular and maintainable applications.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  • Used Test driven approach for developing the application and Implemented the unit tests using Python Unit test framework.  • Written with object-oriented Python, Flask, SQL, Beautiful Soup, httplib2, Jinja2, HTML/CSS, Bootstrap, jQuery, Linux, Sublime Text, git.  • Utilized continuous integration and automated deployments with Jenkins, Ansible and Docker.  • Used HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON designed and developed the user interface of the website.  • Dynamic implementation of SQL server work on website using SQL developer tool and working with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins. Development work is also done to the legacy system using WSAD IDE. The modified application is deployed on websphere using ANT and javascripts for use by interface project.  • Developed test cases and performed unit testing using JUnit.  • Designed and developed the application using agile methodology and followed TDD, Scrum.  • Design and development of components, such as Class, and Sequence diagram in UML  • Developed user interface using JSP, AJAX, JSP Tag libraries and Struts Tag Libraries to simplify the complexities of the application.  • Reduced system downtime by 20% and increased on-line business opportunities / revenue by implementing content management system enhancements leveraging Web 2.0 technologies.  • Develop SOA (SAAS), service documents for Enterprise Applications.  • Created frontend screens using GWT framework  • Analyzed and resolved production system problems tracked with Rational ClearQuest and JIRA.  • Enhanced and created new Jasper Reports according to the requirements.  • Installed and configured a multi-server, clustered ILOG environment. Documented architecture and trained client administrators.  • Developed master JMS producer, master JMS consumer, and notification manager to implement existing interfaces and hide JMS details from existing (legacy) notification producers and consumers using J2SE DESIGN PATTERNS.  • IBM Websphere hosting and Apache Tomcat webserver integration - both on Windows and AIX platform.  • Involving in Building the modules in Linux environment with ant script.  • Development for both backend and front end applications. Extensive Programming by using PHP.    Environment: Python 3.4/2.7, Django 1.9, Python scripting, NoSql, MongoDB, MySQL, AJAX, SOAP, REST, JQuery, JavaScript, Bootstrap, AWS (EC2, S3, RDS)., Jsf, Dojo, Sencha Extjs, Javascript, Css, Ajax, Html 5, Db2, Crud, Pl/Sql, Jdbc, Apache Cxf, Uml, Jsp, Jstl, Servlet, Maven, Xml, Itext, Oracle Ecm, Google Web Kit (Gwt), Jira, Jasper Report, Ilog, Jrules, Web 2.0, Soa, Jms, Apache Tomcat, Linux, Php. Python Developer Kushner - New York, NY May 2012 to April 2013 Responsibilities:  • Experience in developing B2B e-commerce application using WebSphere Commerce.  • Participated in requirement gathering and worked closely with the architect in designing and modeling.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Used PyQt for the functionality filtering of columns helping customers to effectively view their transactions and statements. Implemented navigation rules for the application and page.  • Performed testing using Django's Test Module.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Involved in Web development, programming, and engineering Django, UWSGI and SQL internal admin tools behave BDD.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the JQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture  • Creation of Python scripts for data access and analysis (Scripts, DataFeeds, XLS, FIXML) to aid in process and system monitoring, and reporting.  • Rewrite existing Java application in Python module to deliver certain format of data.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python.  • Also used Bootstrap and Angular.js as a mechanism to manage and organize the HTML page layout.  • Responsible for search engine optimization to improve the visibility of the website.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML5, XHTML, AJAX, CSS3 and JavaScript.  • Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Created a Git repository and added the project to GitHub.  • Build development environment with JIRA.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  • Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Working with the JIRA tool for Quality Center bug tracking.  • Designed Interactive GUIs using Java Applets and Swing.  • Designed Power Cubes using Cognos Transformer  • Installed and configured a multi-server, clustered ILOG environment. Documented architecture and trained client administrators.  • Integrated and implemented SOA solutions with Oracle SOA suite: Oracle ADF, BPM, BPEL, Oracle Service Bus OSB.  • Design & Development for the first major project to use the new Oracle BPM infrastructure.  • Use IBM MQ Series to send information from mainframe to web and back to mainframe  • Provide front and back end support for over 650 retail locations using IBM WebSphere eCommerce applications (WCS) and other open source technologies such as Apache Tomcat.  • Involving in Building the modules in Linux environment with ant script.  • Involved in writing Unix Shell Script for performing automated tasks.  • Responsible for requirements gathering, designing, coding web applications using Ruby on Rails, JavaScripts, HTML, CSS and jQuery  • Provide comprehensive WordPress web tutelage & web maintenance assistance to existing website owners  • Used web services (REST) to bridge the gap between our MS and Drupal/Wordpress technology.  • Developed .NET components using C# and involved in the deployment of those components.  • Design online stores using ASP & JavaScript: develop custom storefront applications, and custom user-interfaces for client sites.  • Designed the dynamic stress reporting Sybase, Perl and C++  • Builds and develops java interfacing with different backend systems in Mainframe.    Environment Python 2.7, Django 1.4, Java, Angular.js, Bootstrap, AWS, Bash, PyQt, XML, Shell Scripting, MySQL, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, Jenkins, Apache Web Server, Linux., Apache Tomcat, Linux, Unix, Ruby, Wordpress, Drupal, .Net, Asp, C, C++, Mainframe, Cobol, Pl/I, Jcl, Sql, Sas, Vb, Asp. Software Developer Aramis Inc - New York, NY November 2010 to April 2012 Responsibilities:  • Involved in the Analysis, design, and architecture of the application.  • Developed, tested and debugged software tools utilized by clients and internal customers.  • Designed and configured database and back end applications and programs.  • Wrote Python modules to extract/load asset data from the MySQL source database.  • Skilled in using collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  • Develop web services using Python Django Framework.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to created user-friendly website interface.  • Experienced in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM Process.  • Wrote and executed various MySQL database queries from Python-MySQL connector and MySQL db package.  • Created PyUnit test cases for unit testing.  • Performed different testing methods like Unit testing, Integration testing, web application testing.  • Extensive code reviewing using GitHub pull requests, improved code quality.  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile).  • Responsible for Parsing XML data using XML parser and Testing, fixing of the bugs and coding modifications.  • Database Administration activities like taking backup, checking log messages.  • Designed and implemented a dedicated MYSQL database server to drive the web applications and report on daily progress.  • Created database tables, functions, stored procedures and wrote prepared statements using PL/SQL.  • Modified queries, functions, cursors, triggerInteract with TIBCO team to map the TIBCO and java bean properties using XML and XSLT.  • Implement logging mechanism using STRUTS.  • Deploy application in JBOSS server using Ant scripts.  • Unit and integration testing    Environments: Python, Django, Java, J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, JBoss, WSAD, Java, J2EE, Struts, Validation Framework, TIBCO, SQL, SQL Server, iSeries, JBoss, Java script, JDBC, SQL, AJAX, XHTML, XML, XSLT, Apache ANT. Software Developer Wells Fargo - Boston, MA November 2008 to October 2010 Responsibilities:  • Developed Automation testing suite using Python and Robot Framework.  • Collected and extracted data Using Python libraries such as Pandas.  • Analyzing the data in design database.  • Experienced in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM Process.  • Rewrite existing Java application in Python module to deliver certain format of data.  • Created and maintain server-side integration tests - Python and Robot Framework running with every build (git, Jenkins). Defect fixing and defect prevention analysis  • Set up the test environment at offshore using VMWare.  • Configuration Management - delivery of code via VSS (Visual Source Safe)    Environments: Python, Django, Java, Struts, WebSphere Application Developer, Eclipse, VMware, Windows XP, PVCS, Java Script, HTML, XHTML, XML, SQL, Oracle 8i, Informix, Visual source safe. Software Engineer CEDR Systems - Atlanta, GA May 2006 to October 2007 Responsibilities:  • Developed Business Logic using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Used JQuery and Ajax calls for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web based solution.  • Used Python based GUI components for the front end functionality such as selection criteria,  • Created test harness to enable comprehensive testing utilizing Python. Prepare Business flow Module, Scenario Template, Object Repository and Data Tables  • Test Case Execution using QTP  • Validate the Test Results produced by QTP  • Validate XML Based Test Result Document for Traceability Report.  • Onsite and Offshore Coordination    Environments: Python, Django, Java, JSP, Struts, Servlets, JSP, DHTML, Java Script, WSAD, DB2, QTP tool. Education Masters of Engineering in Information Technology NorthEastern University - Boston, MA Skills DJANGO (10+ years), JAVA (10+ years), PYTHON (10+ years), XML (10+ years), SQL (9 years) Additional Information Technical Skills    Programming Languages, Frameworks, J2EE Python, Django, Java, Servlets, JSP, Struts, Spring, Validation, Hibernate, JSP, JSTL, JNDI, EJB, UML, C, C++, Python  Mark-up/Scripting languages HTML, XHTML, DHTML, CSS, XML, XSLT, Java Script, AJAX Unix Shell Script  Databases/RDBMS RDBMS, Oracle, Informix, SQL Server, DB2, PL/SQL, Stored procedures, triggers, JDBC  Application Servers Websphere, Apache Tomcat, Jboss  Services/Architecture Service Oriented Architecture (SOA), Web services  Tools/Utilities  IBM WebSphere Application Developer(WSAD), Rational Application Developer(RAD), NetBeans, Eclipse, Rational Clearcase, ANT, LOG4J, PVCS, TOAD, Visual Source Safe, VMWare.    Automation Tools Quick Test Professional (QTP)    Operating systems Linux, Windows  Development Methodologies  J2EE, Object Oriented Analysis and Design, Waterfall, Iterative and incremental development, Agile Software development methodologies