Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - Skytap Seattle, WA ? More than 9 Years of experience in Web Application Development & Designing.  ? Expertise in Object Oriented Concepts, Object Oriented Design (OOD), Object Oriented Analysis (OOA) Programming.  ? Experience in Object Oriented Design and Programming concepts in Java and Python.  ? Having experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  ? Vast experience with Core Java and J2EE using most of the advanced features of Java including JDBC, Spring, Struts, EJB, Servlets, Hibernate.  ? Proficient in developing Web Services (SOAP, RESTful) in Python using XML, JSON.  ? Strong command in JavaScript leading Frameworks Team like Angular.js, React.js, backbone.js, bootstrap.js, Node.Js and Projects UI Designing Team.  ? Developed web based application using Django framework with python concepts.  ? Excellent knowledge and experience in Oracle Database, JDBC, DB2, PL/SQL, MS SQL Server, My SQL Server, Mongo DB.  ? Developed tools to automate some base tasks using Python, Shell scripting and XML.  ? Experience working in various Software Development Methodologies like Waterfall, Agile SCRUM and TDD.  ? Expertise in integrated environment for java such as Eclipse, MyEclipse, RAD, NetBeans, ClearCase and VSS.  ? Experience in developing and implementing Web Services using REST, SOAP, WSDL.  ? Involved in Python OOP code for quality, logging, monitoring, and debugging code optimization.  ? Hands on UML compliant high level design with data flow diagram, Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams, Activity Diagram and Use Cases and documenting for peer developer.  ? Solid understanding in Design Patterns, MVC, Python Algorithms, Python Data Structures.  ? Excellent Leadership, Technical, Communication, Analytical and Problem Solving skills and ability to get on well with people including cross-cultural backgrounds.    CORE TECH SKILLS  ? Python, Django, JavaScript, Angular.js, Node.js, React.JS Backbone.js, Flask, numPY, PyDev, PyQT , Matplotlib, wxPython, PostgreSQL, PyCharm, Webservers, Apache, D3.js, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap.js, EXT-JS, Ajax, JQuery, Dojo, Java,Spring, Hibernate, JDBC, C, C++. Work Experience Sr. Python Developer Skytap - Seattle, WA March 2016 to Present Accountabilities:  ? Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  ? Designed and Developed REST WebServices to interact with various business sectors and used SOAP protocol for webservices communication.  ? Worked on designing, coding and developing the application in Python using Django MVC.  ? Experience in working with Python ORM Libraries including Django ORM.  ? Consumed Restful Webservices where the transmission of data is in JSON format.  ? Worked on integrating python with Web development tools and Web Services.  ? Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  ? Wrote scripts in Python for extracting data from HTML file.  ? Designed, developed and tested the Store management application using HTML, JavaScript, PHP and PostgreSQL.  ? Web development including standardizing the toolsets used from Eclipse to using Git for source control.  ? Utilize PyUnit, the Python Unit test framework, for all Python applications.  ? Developed data analytic tools using Python Pandas, and visualizations using Matplotlib and Bokeh.  ? Worked on CRUD permissions using MySQL and presented them with the beautiful wxPython widgets.  ? Create new PL/SQL stored procedures for new Oracle Forms and Reports development.  ? Working on various Integrated Development Environments like PyCharm, Anaconda Spyder.  ? Designed, Refactored and maintained the SERVICE GUI system of the Kiosk based on Vuejs and Flask.  ? Experience with application servers and webservers including Websphere, Tomcat and dropwizard.  ? Automated the existing scripts for performance calculations using Numpy and SQL alchemy.  ? Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  ? Rewrote existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  ? Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  ? Experienced in working with various Python IDE's using PyCharm, PyScripter, Spyder, PyStudio, PyDev, Eclipse, NetBeans, Sublime text.  ? Developed Web based Dynamic Form Builder using HTML, CSS, JavaScript Object-to-XML.  ? Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  ? Worked on several python packages  ? Proficient in developing Web Services (SOAP, RESTful) in Python using XML, JSON.  ? Worked on the MySQL migration project to make the system completely independent of the database being used. Used Spring IBatis to implement this.  ? Experience in implementing and working on the python code using shell scripting. Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes.  ? Created Oracle database tables, stored procedures, sequences, triggers, views.  ? Experienced in developing application in Flash Builder and deployed it on Tomcat application server proxied through secured http webserver.  ? Implemented REST APIs using Python and Django framework.  ? Created a Rich Single Page Application using HTML, CSS, JSP, JSON, Angularjs, React.js, Node.js, bootstrap.js, backbone.js.  ? Developed web-based applications using Python, Django, XML, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, AngularJS and jQuery.  ? Developed front end using Angular.js, React.JS, Node.js, bootstrap.js, backbone.js, JavaScript, where back end is java with REST webservice.  ? Worked on WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, Python /PHP) Architecture.  ? Design and develop new features in website using Java/J2EE under Santana Framework and enhance existing features. Refactoring code, redesign current design.  ? Worked with J2EE and J2SE technologies including JSP, Java Web Start, and Weblogic.  ? Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to created user-friendly website interface.  ? Review Requirement, develop technical design documents and create a prototype of the critical business application using JAVA/J2EE Initiated use of HttpUnit, Selenium IDE for testing.  ? Working on Java/J2EE framework APIs like Spring, iBatis and Hibernate.  ? Created Data tables utilizing PyQt to display customer and policy information and add, delete, update customer records.  ? Prepare Java/J2EE development structure for Rational Application Developer.  ? Created and deployed web pages using HTML, JSP, JavaScript and CSS.  ? Used REST WebServices for creating rate summary and used WSDL and SOAP messages for getting insurance plans from different module and used XML parsers for data retrieval  ? Extensively worked on Application servers like Weblogic and Apache Tomcat.  ? Installed and configured the development environment using Web-logic on Windows NT    Background Skills: Python, Django, HTML, CSS, XML, JavaScript, Angular.js, AJAX, Webserver, wxPython , matPlotLib, numPY , PyDev, PostgreSQL, Apache, React.JS, PyQT, Node.js, Backbone.js, Bootstrap, Flask, Oracle, PL/SQL, MySQL, MS-Sql, JDBC, Maven, Web Services, SOAP, REST, Ant, RAD, PyCharm, Windows, Linux. Sr. Python Developer Autodesk - San Rafael, CA September 2014 to February 2016 Accountabilities:  ? Developed web applications and RESTful web services and APIs using Python, Django and PHP.  ? Experience with Django, a high-level Python Web framework.  ? Leading JavaScript Frameworks Team like Angular.js, backbone.js, bootstrap.js, Node.js.  ? Automated JIRA processes using Python and bash scripts.  ? To fetch data of definite options that are selected, Python routines were written to log into websites.  ? Developed and configured the Java beans using Struts MVC and Hibernate.  ? Automated AWS S3 data upload / download using Python scripts.  ? Responsible for setting up Python REST API framework using DJANGO.  ? Providing a responsive, AJAX-driven design using JavaScript libraries such as JavaScript, jQuery, backbone.js, Node.js AngularJS and Bootstrap.js - Using Subversion for version control.  ? Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  ? Created Python and Bash tools to increase efficiency of application system.  ? Developed HTML, CSS, Javascript and JSP pages for user interaction and data presentation.  ? Analyzed client needs and developed software tools to assist dynamic site content creation ( Python, wxPython).  ? Developing Python Framework using Django to perform scan software unit monitoring.  ? Design and development of user interfaces and client displays using Java Script, CSS and troubleshoot various issues in Python code and fix them with code enhancements- code used various python libraries such as Jython  ? Built various graphs for business decision making using Python matplotlib library.  ? OOP in PHP to extend or update functionalities. The project uses MySQL as the database.  ? Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript  ? Built various graphs for business decision making using Python library.  ? Developed user interface using JSP, JSTL and Custom Tag Libraries and AJAX to speed the application.  ? Involved in multi-tiered J2EE design utilizing MVC architecture Spring, Struts, Hibernate and EJB deployed on Websphere Application Server connecting to an Oracle database.  ? Responsible for setting up Python REST API framework using Django.  ? Implement code in python to retrieve and manipulate data.  ? Worked on ElementTree XML API in python to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  ? Creation of REST WebServices for the management of data using Apache CXF (JAX-RS).  ? Created entire application using Python, Django, MySQL and Linux.  ? Worked on python based test frameworks and test driven development with automation tools.  ? Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, MySQL, Jerkins, and custom tools developed in Python.  ? Worked in RDBMS implementation using, SQL, PL/SQL, DB2, MySQL on Oracle database.  ? Developed vertical market auctioning platform based on a JSON REST API using Python, Flask and SQLAlchemy.  ? Worked on server side applications with Django using Python programming.  ? Utilized standard Python modules such as csv, itertools and pickle for development.  ? Developed a Web Application using Java with the Google Web ToolkitAPI with PostgreSql.  ? Worked with Oracle RDBMS for writing complex queries and PL/SQL, SQL for Stored Procedures, Triggers and Events, for generating some important responses needed by the application at times.  ? Writing JUnit test/Integration test cases for asserting functional qualityDeveloped framework using Java, BIRT Runtime, iText, MySQL and webserver technologies.  ? Worked on Python OpenStack APIs and used Numpy for Numerical analysis.  ? Developed framework using Java, BIRT Runtime, iText, MySQL and webserver technologies.  ? Used Analytical Python Libraries like Pandas and Numpy to work on Data Manipulations.  ? Used integrated debugger tool from PyCharm for debugging of source code for better analysis.  ? Implemented the application using the concrete principles laid down by several Java/J2EE Design patterns like Business Delegate, MVC, Session Façade, Factory Method, Service Locator, Singleton and Data Transfer Objects (DTO).  ? Development of Web (Intranet) database-driven and GIS Java/J2EE applications for Oracle databases.  ? Built a RESTful API to save and retrieve geolocations using a remote server in Java using Spring, MongoDB, Apache CXF, and JAX-RS.  ? Create webservice component using REST, SOAP, WSDL, XML and XSLT to interact with the middleware  ? Used Webservices - WSDL and SOAP for getting credit card information from third party.  ? Used XML WebServices using SOAP to transfer the amount to transfer application that is remote and global to different financial institutions.  ? Performed Validations on UI data using JSF validators and JavaScript.  ? Developed interfaces and their implementation classes to communicate with the mid-tier (services) using JMS.  ? Performed J2EE application deployment using JBoss application server on Windows and Linux  ? Performed Unit Testing and developed Unit Test Classes using JUNIT    Background Skills: Python, Django, HTML, CSS, XML, Webserver, React.JS, wxPython, numPY, matPlotLib, PyCharm, JavaScript, Flask, PostgreSQL, Node.js, JSON, Angular.js, Backbone.js, Bootstrap, Java, DB2, PL/SQL, JDBC, Oracle, MySQL, Apache, SOAP, Web Services, REST, Eclipse, Git, Github, Junit, Agile, Scrum, Maven. Python Developer Fujitsu - Sunnyvale, CA September 2012 to August 2014 Accountabilities:  ? Managed datasets using data frames and MySQL, queried MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector MySQLdb package to retrieve information.  ? Development of real-time multi-tasking systems using Python.  ? Created data access modules in python.  ? Designed and developed components using Python with Django framework. Implemented code in python to retrieve and manipulate data.  ? Used Python & Django creating graphics, XML processing of documents, data exchange & business logic implementation between servers.  ? Worked on development of backend services using Python, SQL and Linux. Created many API's for Iscrum project which involves creating and maintaining projects in an organization. and developed UI using HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  ? Developed backend services and created many API's using Python Programming Language and SQL.  ? Involved in developing a video calling application using python web-sockets.  ? Performed research regarding Python Programming and its uses and efficiency.  ? Developed GUI screens for XTT & LD application using JSP, HTML and CSS.  ? Development UI modules using HTML, JSP, JavaScript and CSS.  ? Wrote JavaScript functions to get Dynamic data and Client side validation.  ? Used JQuery to make the frontend components interact with the Javascript functions to add dynamism to the web pages at the client side.  ? Implemented a Node.js server to manage authentication.  ? Created Node.js middleware application server to encapsulate modern JS widget framework Worked with JSON objects and JavaScript and JQuery intensively to create interactive web pages.  ? Implemented web based front-end using HTML, CSS, JQuery, and AngularJS  ? Involved in developing the UI panels using JSF, XHTML, CSS, DOJO and JQuery.  ? Set up the deployment environment on Web Logic Developed system preferences UI screens using JSP and HTML.  ? Developed web Components using JSP, Servlets and Server side components using EJB under J2EE Environment.  ? Rich UI development experience and well versed in client side technologies like AngularJS, jQuery, BackBone.js, Google Widget Toolkit, Sencha UI  ? Worked in Java, J2EE, XSL, XML, Oracle, DB2, Struts, spring, Hibernate, REST Web services, Model driven architecture and software configuration management tools.  ? Developed HTML, Swing and JSP pages for user interaction and data presentation.  ? Created a Rich Single Page Application using HTML, CSS, Angularjs, JQuery and REST Services  ? Designed and implemented UI layer using JSP, JavaScript, HTML, DHTML, JSON, XML, XHTML, XSL, XSLT, XSL-FO and business logic using Servlets, JSP, EJBs and J2EE framework.  ? Used Backbonejs, Node.js, Bootstrap and other javascript libraries to create intuitive and rich Single Page Applications.  ? Used JQuery JavaScript libraries for providing richer user interface and facilitates asynchronous request invocations using AJAX.  ? Developed Dash-Board to monitor and report Cache Coherence Servers.  ? Integrate the ExtJs/Sencha framework with Oracle BPM.  ? Prepared statements are used for communication Sql database  ? Involved in developing custom taglibs, JSP, EJB's, Portlets and DB2 - stored procedures.  ? Involved in Requirement analysis, design and Implementation applying the Water fall model.  ? Wrote Servlets programming and JSP scripting for the communication between web browser and server.  ? Integrate the Oracle BPM with the Spring Framework in the enterprise layer.  ? Involved in packaging, deployment and upgrade of different modules of SAS on JBoss App Server. VB code Analysis and Sybase store procedure converted into SQL.    Background Skills: Python, Django, HTML, CSS, Javascript, Ajax, JSON, JQuery, MySQL, TOAD, SQL, DB2, Apache Axis, WSDL, Netbeans, JBOSS, Mercurial, Coherence, ClearCase, Selenium, Water Fall Model, UML, JSP, Servlet, Ant, XML, Jira, Swing, Cognos. Web Developer Wells Fargo - San Francisco, CA March 2010 to August 2012 Accountabilities:  ? Analyzed business requirements, participated in technical design, development and testing of various modules assigned.  ? Implementing database driven applications in Java using JDBC, JNDI, Entity Beans, Template and Hibernate.  ? Made the application responsive using Bootstrap.  ? Developed user interfaces using JSP, JSP Tag libraries, Struts Tag libraries and Java  Script to simplify the complexities of the application.  ? Involved in web designing using HTML, CSS, JavaScript and extensively used Table less Design in CSS for positioning.  ? After making the applications to be responsive, worked on different mobile devices bugs (like ios and android).  ? Implemented custom data structures using java collection framework.  ? Developed page layouts, Navigations and presented designs and concepts to the clients and the management review.  ? Integrated Hibernate ORM with Spring-Hibernate framework to facilitate DML and DQL queries and represent object-database mapping.  ? Designed Frontend with in object oriented JavaScript Framework like Jquery.  ? Used jQuery to make the HTML, DHTML and CSS code interact with the JavaScript functions to add dynamism to the web pages at the client side.  ? Developed the application module in Java based on the feasibility study.  ? Created Images, Logos and Icons that are used across the web pages using Adobe Flash and Photoshop.  ? Used Adobe Experience manager for building websites, mobile apps and forms.  ? Developed client-side AJAX application that uses XSLT, XPath, JavaScript OOP, and more Bind objects and retrieve them via JNDI interface.    Background Skills: HTML, CSS, Javascript, Ajax, JSON, JQuery, MySQL, TOAD, SQL, DB2, Apache Axis, WSDL, Netbeans, JBOSS, Mercurial, Coherence, ClearCase, Selenium, Water Fall Model, UML, JSP, Servlet, Ant, XML, Jira, Swing, Cognos Software Developer Verizon - New York, NY April 2008 to February 2010 Accountabilities:  ? Worked on various UI technologies like JSF, HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JSP tag libraries.  ? Built Web pages that are more user-interactive using JQuery plugins for Drag and Drop, Auto Complete, JSON, Angular JS, JavaScript, Bootstrap.  ? Implemented JAVA/J2EE design patterns such as Factory, Template, MVC, Singleton.  ? Made the web pages Responsive using JQuery UI and bootstrap, which can be operated in both PC's and Mobiles.  ? Used advanced JavaScript concepts to validate input fields using regular expression.  ? Extensively used CSS (Cascading Style Sheets) along with Responsive Web Design (RWD) to support the web page in Mobile browser as well.  ? Worked with Spring Batch Used Spring ORM module to integrate with Hibernate.  ? Used Bootstrap along with CSS to design web-pages by HTML.  ? Implemented Java and J2EE Design Pattern such as Command, State, Template, Composite, Strategy and Observer.  ? Used Web services (SOAP and RESTful) for transmission of large blocks of XML/JSON.  ? Used Jenkins as continuous integration tool for building archive files and snapshots for all applications.  ? Worked on DOM manipulation using JavaScript, jQuery and AJAX.  ? Used the various Complex data structures in collections Framework in Java/J2EE for building the Business Logic.  ? Added analytics and tagging functionality for all the existing pages to track all the user actions using JavaScript.  ? Worked with CSS background, CSS Layouts, CSS positioning, CSS text, CSS border, CSS margin, CSS padding, Pseudo elements and CSS behaviors.  ? Tested the application under Scrum (Agile) Methodology.  ? Created Test strategy, Test plan, execution plan and Identified test data requirements.  ? Worked on major bug fixes, which included UI issues and functionality issues as well    Background Skills: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, DHTML, DOM, JSON, Bootstrap, AJAX, Adobe Flash, Photoshop, AEM, PLSQL, Oracle, Windows Education Master's Skills MYSQL (8 years), ORACLE (7 years), DB2 (6 years), JBOSS (6 years), LINUX (5 years) Additional Information ADDITIONAL TECH SKILLS  ? SQLServer, Oracle, MySQL, DB2, JBoss, WebSphere, Tomcat, BEA WebLogic, Eclipse, Flex Builder, NetBeans, RSA, MS Visio, Windows , Linux , Unix