Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Ascentis Corporation San Mateo, CA • Over 8+ years of experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Management and Implementation of various stand-alone, client-server enterprise applications.  • Experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and waterfall models in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Knowledge of the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), Agile and Waterfall Methodologies.  • Performed code reviews and implemented best Python programming practices.  • Good experience in developing web applications implementing Model View Control architecture using Django, Flask, Python web application frameworks.  • Experience object oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, C++, C and PHP.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, PHP, C++, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Experience with Amazon Cloud EC2, Simple Storage Service S3 and Amazon SQS.  • Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache.  • Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Familiar with JSON based REST Web services.  • Experience in using Eclipse, Pycharm, Visual Studio, Pyscripter and SublimeText while developing different application in python.  • Extensive experience in web application development using Python, Django and web technologies (HTML, HTML5, DHTML, CSS, CSS3, XML and JavaScript) to create scalable and robust common components which can be used across the whole framework.  • Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  • Experience in writing SubQueries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Excellent debugging, problem solving, optimization and testing skills.  • Highly motivated, dedicated, quick learner and have proven ability to build and manage a team and work individually.  • Excellent written and oral communication skills with results-oriented attitude. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Ascentis Corporation - San Mateo, CA February 2015 to Present Description: Ascentis delivers on-demand human capital management software solutions that reduce costs while increasing productivity. The purpose of my project is to maintain a data warehouse that would enable the management to take corporate decisions. The project deals with building a real time view of enterprise wide data. We worked on development of DSS to compare and analyze product prices, their quantities and profiles. Utilized existing contributed modules and built custom modules using Python, Django, JavaScript, HTML and CSS  Responsibilities:  • Associated with various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the application like requirement gathering, Design, Analysis and Code development.  • Worked with team of developers on Python applications for RISK management.  • Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users.  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation.  • Contribute to major development initiatives with codebases utilizing Python, Django, MySQL, jQuery.  • Work with multiple team to develop services and coordinate releases.  • Used PHP as an HTML embedded scripting language, in front end web development.  • Prepare Test scripts for different applications using QTP & Selenium.  • Run a Regression test on Selenium after every build.  • Automation of internal web application through Selenium 2 WebDriver.  • Performed Compatibility testing of applications for dynamic and static content of browsers using HTML Ids and XPath in Selenium.  • Developed ETL (Extract Transform Load) software for DB2 columnar database fact and dimension tables.  • Develop data models for applications, metadata tables, views or related database structures.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework with GIT.  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture.  • Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector and MSQLdb package.  • Used NoSQL database Apache Cassandra to load the data in database.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Utilized Python libraries wxPython, numPY, Twisted and Mat PlotLib.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Bootstrap, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Carried out various mathematical operations for calculation purpose using python libraries.  • Developed tools using Python, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Performed research to explore and identify new technological platforms.  • Collaborated with internal teams to convert end user feedback into meaningful and improved solutions.  • Resolved ongoing problems and accurately documented progress of a project.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django1.5, HTML5/CSS, MS SQL Server 2013, MySQL, JavaScript, Eclipse, Linux, Celery, AWS, Shell Scripting, JQuery, GitHub, Angular.JS, Jira, Django 1.6/1.7/1.8LTS, Bootstrap, Java. Java, Python Developer XL Insurance - Chicago, IL March 2013 to August 2015 Description: Purpose of this project is to maintain a data warehouse that would enable the management to take corporate decisions. The project deals with building a real time view of enterprise wide data. Worked on development of DSS (Decision support system) to compare and analyze product prices, their quantities and patient profiles.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in the complete Software development lifecycle (SDLC) to develop the application.  • Wrote SQL queries, stored procedures, modifications to existing database structure as required per addition of new features.  • Used Object-oriented analysis (OOA) for object-modeling techniques to analyze the functional requirements for a system.  • Worked on a twenty node Hadoop cluster. Hadoop Cluster is implemented using the Cloudera CDH and YARN architecture.  • Enabled speedy reviews and first mover advantages by using Oozie to automate data loading into the Hadoop.  • Distributed File System and PIG to pre-process the data.  • Shared responsibility for administration of Hadoop, Hive and Pig.  • Designed and developed backend application servers using Python.  • Created network servers and participated in the design of multi-tier application architectures.  • Managed application deployment using Python.  • Used different data formats (Text format and Parquet file format) while loading the data in HDFS.  • Created Managed tables and External tables in Hive and loaded data from HDFS. Performed complex HiveQL queries on Hive tables.  • Optimized the Hive tables using optimization techniques like partitions and bucketing to provide better performance with HiveQL queries.  • Created partitioned tables and loaded data using both static partition and dynamic partition method.  • Created custom user defined functions in Python language for Pig.  • Worked on setting up pig, Hive and Hbase on multiple nodes and developed using Pig, Hive and Hbase, MapReduce.  • Used HCatalog to process data from Hive tables with Pig scripts using HCatLoader and HCatStorer.  • Performed SQOOP import from Oracle to load the data in HDFS and directly into Hive tables.  • Developed Python Mapper and Reducer scripts and implemented them using Hadoop streaming.  • Scheduled map reduce jobs in production environment using Control M scheduler.  • Used Hadoop logs to debug the scripts.  • Used Spring Dependency Injection design pattern and Apache Commons Chain.  • Implemented multi-threading design and used thread safe classes for handling data.  • Developed DAO (Data Access Object) classes in order to access data from database.  • Testing the critical application's functionalities before moving those into production by using various testing methodologies.  • Co-ordinate with QA for testing, Production releases, Application deployment, integration and conducting walk-through code reviews.  • Test cases have been written by using JUnit framework. Wrote Integration tests for the DAO layer using Spring Bean Injection.  • Developed HTML, JSP pages, JavaScript and worked on integration.  • Worked extensively on JAXB to generate java classes from the XSD files. These java classes generated were used as input and output for the REST Web Services.  • Implemented Spring MVC framework as web application module.  • Involved in the development of various modules in this application using JAVA, JSP, Servlets, and HTML.  • Worked on testing the module using JUnit.  • Implemented various design patterns in the project such as Business Delegate, Data Transfer Object, Data Access Object, Service Locator and Singleton.  • Used UML for designing test cases and creating sequence and class diagrams.  • Involved in creating and extracting data from database using SQL Queries, PL/SQL Stored procedures, triggers and packages on Oracle10g database.  • Implemented logging by using Log4j, developed assertions to work with JUnit, and worked SVN control for version controlling.  • Built and deployed WAR and JAR files for the product using IBM WebSphere application server.    Environment: JDK7, Spring 4.0, JDBC, JMS, TIBCO, EMS, XML, Eclipse, Linux, PL/SQL, MSSQL, MySQL, JavaScript, Junit, SVN, Oracle Coherence, Maven, AJAX, jQuery, HTML 5, CSS 3, SQL/PLSQL, RAD, TOAD, SQL Developer, WebSphere 7.0. Python Developer Intercontinental Exchange Inc - Atlanta, GA September 2013 to January 2015 Description: Prometheus Research is the premier provider of integrated data management services for research organizations, healthcare systems, and funding agencies. We leverage our unique blend of People, Processes, and Tools to consistently deliver uncommon value to our partners and their collaborators.  Responsibilities:  • Write Python scripts to parse JSON documents and load the data in database.  • Use Python and Django to interface with the JQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Experience in writing branching and merging methodologies in Python.  • For update and manipulation of file, Python scripts were used.  • Created projects and portal sites in Web portal.  • Experience in setting up App pools and web sites in Python.  • Features for dashboard were developed and tested using CSS, JavaScript, Django, Bootstrap.  • Created the front end of the app using Angular JS.  • Responsible for writing/modifying scripts using sh, ksh, and Bash for day-to- day administration.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django including Tastypie Web Framework using Git.  • Create database using MySQL, wrote several queries to extract data from database.  • Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  • Dynamic implementation of SQL server works on website using SQL developer tool.  • Designed front end using UI, HTML, Bootstrap, Node JS, underscore JS, Angular JS, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Followed AGILE development methodology to develop the application.  • Designed, developed and maintained PostgreSQL database architecture.  • Use and customize apache server to for checking our developed project.  • Use Test driven approach (TDD) for developing services required for the application.  • Implemented Integration test cases.  • Write multi-thread scripts to obtain optimal performance.  • Use AJAX to reduce page reloads.  • Use the Model View controller (MVC) framework to build modular and maintainable applications.  • Conceived and created tables using MySQL 5.  • This project also used other technologies like JQuery for java script manipulations, bootstrap for the front-end html layout.  • Created tables, stored procedures, triggers and views for data access and manipulation.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.6, HTML5, CSS, XML, MySQL, MongoDB, JavaScript, Angular JS, Backbone JS, JQuery, CSS Bootstrap, RabbitMQ, Celery, T-SQL, JavaScript, Eclipse, Git, GitHub Linux, Redis, Shell Scripting. Java Developer Travelers Insurance - Morristown, NJ December 2011 to February 2013 Description: The Travelers Companies is an American insurance company. It is the second largest writer of U.S. commercial property casualty insurance and the third largest writer of U.S. personal insurance through independent agents.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in Developing a Restful service using Python Flask framework.  • Made Django web based apps for Insurance premium calculations.  • Full Stack Developer for custom Drupal 7 build. Responsibilities included site maintenance, new feature development and user support.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework with GIT.  • Experienced in web applications development using Django/ Python, .NET/C#, Flask/ Python, and Node.js, Angular.js, ember.js, Jquery, Ajax while using HTML/CSS/JS for server-side rendered application.  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture.  • Expertise in developing web-based open stack applications using Python and Django for large dataset analysis.  • Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  • Used Test driven approach for developing the application and Implemented the unit tests using Python Unit test framework.  • Reviewed and implemented instrument pricing and modelling methodologies in collaboration with technical engineers.  • Analyzed and documented how instrument prices move as underlying market data sources change.  • Good hands on experience in data warehouse developer/ database engineer for high-volume data processing.  • Actively participated in requirement gathering sessions and capability planning for multi data center Cassandra cluster.  • Installed, Configured, administered and monitored multi Data center Cassandra clusters.  • Involved in upgrading the present Oracle data model to Cassandra data model.  • Evaluated and tuned data model by running endurance tests using JMeter, Cassandra Stress Tool and OpsCenter.  • Providing support for Linux servers and workstations in Department of Physics.  • Installing and configuring NIS servers to authenticate between Linux, Apple and Windows environments.  • Building new servers as for Department needs, configuring and managing user accounts.  • Writing bash shell scripts on local setups to automate jobs.  • Designed front end using UI, HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Involved in the Complete Software development life cycle (SDLC) to develop the application.  • Followed AGILE development methodology to develop the application.  • Used Test driven approach (TDD) for developing services required for the application.  • Implemented Integration test cases.    Environment: Python 2.7, PyQT, .NET, PyQuery, MVW, HTML5, CSS3, DOM, Angular.js, Shell Scripting, JSON, Rest, Apache Web Server, Django, SQL, UNIX, Windows, PostgreSQL, and python libraries such as Numpy, sqlalchemy, etc. Java Developer EffectiveSoft - San Diego, CA October 2009 to November 2011 Description: Epsilon is the global leader in creating connections between people and brands. An all-encompassing global marketing company, we harness the power of rich data, groundbreaking technologies, engaging creative and transformative ideas to get the results our clients require.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in extensive meetings with business and design teams in analyzing / drafting Business Requirement Specification (BRS) and Software Requirements Specification (SRS) with XSD schemas.  • Responsible for building scalable distributed data solutions using Hadoop.  • Worked on performing major upgrade of cluster from CDH3u6 to CDH4.4.0.  • Deployed production site using Apache 2.0 with mod python.  • Involved in developing the Pig scripts.  • Experience in using Pig, Hive, Scoop, HBase, ZooKeeper and Cloudera Manager.  • Developed the sqoop scripts in order to make the interaction between Pig and MySQL Database.  • Upgraded Python 2.3 to Python 2.5, this required recompiling mod python to use Python 2.5.  • Developed MapReduce programs to extract and transform the data sets and results were exported back to RDBMS using Sqoop.  • Trained on Hadoop framework, HDFS, MapReduce concepts.  • Implementation of de-duplication process to avoid duplicates in daily load.  • Design and implementation of delta data load systems in Hive, which increased efficiency by more than 60%.  • Involved in migrating part of application from FTPing flat files to communicating with XML messages using Java Messaging Service (JMS), providing reliable and efficient communication across various platforms.  • Worked extensively on JAXB implementation, a schema-based object model used to access, process XML data and used bind &Unmarshalling features to process XML instances through Java types.  • Extensively involved in developing configurable Web Application with Spring MVC framework. This involved using view technologies like Servlets, JSP and Tiles.  • Used Spring Context, DAO for implementing business logic, dependency injection mechanism and connection pooling.  • Developing application with Spring ORM and Spring DAO design pattern to provide Hibernate integration and Java Database Connectivity (JDBC).  • Involved in enhancing application performance by introducing Multi-threading using thread-state model and priority-based thread scheduler in Java 5.0.  • Executors and Executor Service have been used to create, execute threads and enable thread pooling for efficient resource utilization.  • Used JUnit and Log4J to run through pre-load and post-load test cycles for application performance and errors.  • Involved in making application changes to GPI screens using Forms of Oracle10g developer Suite.  • Involved in fine-tuning & developing UNIX/Linux Scripts and maintaining on $Universe job scheduler.  • Deployed the application on WebLogic web servers, worked on Hibernate for developing persistent objects, worked on Aqua data studio (IDE).  • Developed RIA's using Flex, integrating them with Java code.    Environment: Spring Framework 3.2.5, Hibernate 3, Eclipse, XML, JAXB 2.1, JUnit, Log4j, SVN, Maven, BEA WebLogic 8.1/10.3, JDBC, DB2, AS400, Oracle 10g, PL/SQL, UNIX/Linux. Software Engineer Nvidia - Santa Clara, CA June 2008 to September 2009 Description: Nvidia helps business to generate competitive value by leveraging its expertise in Microsoft technology, Brilliance in Process Management and Enthusiasm for Perfection, from Strategy to Delivery of Custom Solutions. Its mission is to consistently deliver an excellent customer experience as an IT Consultancy by maximizing the capabilities.  Responsibilities:  • Used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users.  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation.  • Used PHP as an HTML embedded scripting language, in front end web development.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS, JQuery, JSON and JavaScript.  • Used Bootstrap as a mechanism to manage and organize the html page layout.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL db package.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Developed entire front-end and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django module to deliver certain format of data.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.    Environment: MySQL, HTML, Python 2.0, Django 1.4, CSS, XML, MySQL, JavaScript, Linux, Shell Scripting, PHP, AJAX. Education Business Modeler HP Quality Centre August 2010 Bachelor's Additional Information Methodologies Agile, SCRUM and Waterfall