SR. PYTHON DEVELOPER SR. <span class="hl">PYTHON</span> <span class="hl">DEVELOPER</span> SR. PYTHON DEVELOPER - BANK OF AMERICA USA Work Experience SR. PYTHON DEVELOPER BANK OF AMERICA - Charlotte, NC December 2018 to Present • Worked on server-side applications with Django using Python programming and automated the existing scripts for performance calculations using machine library like Numpy and SQL Alchemy for Insurance premium. Handled database issues and connections with SQL and NoSQL databases like MongoDB by installing and configuring various packages in python (Teradata, MySQL dB, MySQL connector, PyMongo and SQL Alchemy).  • Architected and developed Python and Django for the backend development and front-end application using React, Webpack, Redux, and ES6/7 and PostgreSQL for the database. Building the REST API using Python, Flask, and Elasticsearch search engine to aggregate result data in a timely and scalable manner.  • •Experience with Agile/Scrum methodology, SDLC and well versed in developing user stories, designed collaborative business model (Visio)  • Integrated Hibernate ORM with Spring-Hibernate framework to facilitate DML and DQL queries and represent object-database mapping.  • Created functions in Lambda that aggregates the data from incoming events, then stores resulting data in Amazon Dynamo DB and S3. Working on AWS services (S3, EC2) and deployment services (Lambda) and RDS, DynamoDB (NoSQL), Beanstalk, SQS and Jenkins CICD.  • Developed full stack web applications using Python, Flask, ReactJS, SQL, HTML/CSS, JavaScript, and with an N- tier architecture approach. Included in the applications built are self-designed relational databases, user role management, and salted hashing password encryption for site security.  • As part of product backlog grooming sessions, created user-centered requirement specifications (user stories). Managed all project requirements in agile tools like Jira and Confluence.  • Designed applications implementing MVC architecture in Pyramid, Zope frame works and designed mobile search application system requirements and coded back-end and front-end in Python.  • Used React JS in components like JSX, creating React components, Virtual DOM, React Props, Lifecycle methods, working with the React States and Events and Responsible for designing and developing REST web services in Python using flask and flask-restful framework.  • Created database using MySQL, wrote several queries and used FLASK to extract data from database and Developed dynamic frontend and backend applications using Python, Flask Frameworks.  • Automated JIRA processes using Python and bash scripts. Implementation under Red Hat and CentOS both locally and on Cloud and Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Created User Interface (UI) using JavaScript, bootstrap, Angular.js and HTML5/CSS. Worked on frontend frameworks like CSS Bootstrap for development of Web applications. Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Worked with millions of database records on a daily basis, finding common errors and bad data patterns and fixing them. Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team. Build Cassandra queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  • Created Database Objects like Tables, Stored Procedures, Views, Triggers, Rules, Defaults, user defined data types and functions. Bootstrap is used as a mechanism to manage and organize the html page layout.  • Taken part in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support. Worked in development of applications especially in LINUX environment and familiar with all of its commands.  • Worked in DevOps group running Jenkins in a Docker container with EC2 slaves in Amazon AWS cloud configuration. Also gained familiarity with supporting technologies like Kubernetes and Mesos.  • Developed CI/CD system with Jenkins on Kubernetes container environment, utilizing Kubernetes and Docker for the runtime environment for the CI/CD system to build and test and deploy.  • Worked on Jenkins continuous integration tool for deployment of project. Deployed the project into Jenkins using GIT version control system. Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Java, Bootstrap, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery. Generated Python Django forms to record data of online users and used PyTest for writing test cases.  • Worked in developing Web-based Applications using Python, CSS, HTML, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AJAX, J2EE, jQuery, JSON, jQuery UI, XML, Angular JS and jQuery also involving Beautiful Soap, NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas Data frame, PySpark, urlib2 libraries.  • Implemented and modified various SQL queries and Functions, Cursors and Triggers as per the client requirements. Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using HTML, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery. Implemented and enhanced CRUD operations for the applications using the MVC architecture of Rails framework and Ruby conducting code reviews.  • Developed Python-Kafka consumer code for archiving data for five minutes. Build back-end application with Python / Django, Worked on Dockers, RabbitMQ, Celery, and Jenkins. Python Full Stack Developer Devon Bank - Chicago, IL September 2015 to November 2016 • Business logic implementation, data exchange, XML processing and graphics creation has been done using Python and Django. Monitor service health check from Spring Boot Admin console using swaggered UI registered microservices.  • Used Ajax and jQuery for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers and implemented AJAX for dynamic functionality of a webpages for front end applications.  • Views and Templates were developed with Python and to create a user-friendly website interface Django's view controller and template language is used and DB2 SQL Procedures and UNIX Shell Scripts were designed and developed for Data Import/Export and Conversions  • Worked on AWS Cloud platform and its features which includes EC2, VPC, EBS, AMI, SNS, RDS, EBS, Cloud Watch, Cloud Trail, Cloud Formation AWS Config, Auto scaling, CloudFront, IAM and DynamoDB.  • Designed and developed Use Cases and Use Case scenarios, Activity Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams, High Level and Low-Level Process Flow Diagrams, OOAD using UML and Business Process Modeling.  • Used Python, Django and Pyramid frameworks to develop applications and responsible for both back-end programming and front-end functionality using JavaScript, Ajax, Angular.JS, and other technologies.  • Used both agile and waterfall methodology to manage requirements in an automated tool and defined requirements for solutions in multiple-entity environments.  • Involved in Unit testing, Integration testing, User-Acceptance testing, and Functional testing. Expertise in working with server-side technologies including databases, Restful APL and MVC design patterns.  • Developed Django based dashboard with custom look and feel for end user has been created after a careful study of the Django admin site and dashboard. Unit Test Python library was used for testing many programs on python and other codes.  • Developed server-side software modules and client-side user interface components deployed entirely in Compute Cloud of Amazon Web Services (AWS).  • Created PL/SQL stored procedures, functions and packages for moving the data from staging area to data mart.  • Used Hibernate framework for DAO layer to access the Oracle database Used JavaScript for client-side validations and involved in writing POJOs, hbm and hibernate.cfg files and configured the same for application development.  • Different testing methodologies like unit testing, Integration testing, web application testing, selenium testing was performed. Used Django framework for application development. Developed user interface using, CSS, HTML, JavaScript and jQuery& Ruby on rails. Assisted in reduction of cost and optimization of supplier selection for the CRM Applications.  • Worked on AWS Cloud platform and its features which includes EC2, VPC, EBS, AMI, SNS, RDS, EBS, Cloud Watch, Cloud Trail, Cloud Formation AWS Config, Auto scaling, CloudFront, IAM and DynamoDB.  • Worked on AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP Serializable JSON strings and used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Works in implementing Model View Control (MVC) architecture using server-side applications for developing web applications using Django/ Python, Flask/ Python, and DOJO, jQuery while using HTML/CSS/JS for server-side rendered applications.  • Involved in Unit testing, Integration testing, User-Acceptance testing, and Functional testing. Expertise in working with server-side technologies including databases, Restful APL and MVC design patterns.  • Ensured high quality data collection and maintaining the integrity of the data. Cleaned data and processed third party spending data into maneuverable deliverables within specific formats with Excel macros and python libraries.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval. Collaborated with internal teams to convert end user feedback into meaningful and improved solutions.  • Resolved ongoing problems and accurately documented progress of a project. Good experience of software development in Python (libraries used: libraries- Beautiful Soup, NumPy, SciPy, matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas data frame, network, urllib2, MySQL dB for database connectivity).  • Designing web pages and Graphical user interfaces, front end layouts on the web by using HTML, DHTML, CSS, Bootstrap framework, PHP, XML, JavaScript, node Js and Angular JS. Understanding of OpenShift Platform in managing Docker containers and Kubernates clusters.  • Practical experience with working on Multiple-Environments like Development, Testing, Production. Good understanding of Jingo ORM and SqlAlchamy. Good knowledge in CORE JAVA and OOPS concepts.  • Developed application service components and configured beans using Spring IoC, creation of Hibernate mapping files and generation of database schema.  • Good programming, problem solving skills, commitment & result oriented, with a quest & zeal to learn new technologies. DB2 SQL Procedures and UNIX Shell Scripts were designed and developed for Data Import/Export and Conversions. Used web applications development using Django/ Python, Flask/ Python, and, JQuery, Ajax while using HTML/CSS/JS for server-side rendered application.  • Provided support to Application and database team, troubleshoot issues encountered while providing support, contact AWS Support whenever necessary. Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS, and JavaScript. Experienced in developing API services in Python/Tornado, NodeJS while leveraging AMQP and RabbitMQ for distributed architectures to deploy AWS & MS Azure.  • Collaborated with internal teams to convert end user feedback into meaningful and improved solutions. Deployed Docker contained Spring Boot micro services in to Spring EC2 container service using AWS admin console and used lambda to run applications in AWS console.  • Automate report generation in MongoDB using JavaScript, shell scripting, Java added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud. Worked with team of developers on Python applications for RISK management Python Developer United Health Group - Minneapolis, MN August 2013 to August 2015 • Developed strategic partnerships with the business unit to develop a solid knowledge base of the business line, including the business plan, products and processes. Created Use-Case diagrams and State diagrams using MS Visio.  • Created entire application using Python, Django, MySQL and Linux. Implemented and tested many features for dashboard using Flask, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Placed data into JSON files using Python to test Django websites and used Python scripts to update the content in database and manipulate files also wrote Python code embedded with JSON and XML to produce HTTP GET request, parsing HTML data from websites.  • Used Node.js to create a fast chat server with efficiency and developed views and templates in Django to create a user-friendly website interface and also Constructed RESTful API's using PHP, Node.js, and MySQL/PostgreSQL.  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture. Creation and deployment of AWS EC2 environments for proof of concept of design assumptions  • Worked in DevOps group running Jenkins in a Docker container with EC2 slaves in Amazon AWS cloud configuration. Also gained familiarity with supporting technologies like kubernetes and Mesos and used Bootstrap and Angular.js as a mechanism to manage and organize the HTML page layout.  • Used python library Beautiful Soup for Web scraping to extract data for building graphs , worked in MySQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for  • Developed CI/CD system with Jenkins on Kubernetes container environment, utilizing Kubernetes and Docker for the runtime environment for the CI/CD system to build and test and deploy.  • Introduced to encapsulate the existing structures used by Keymap and help S3 Index/Keymap scale infinitely. Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Coordinate facilitated and participate in agile ceremonies such as product backlog grooming, sprint planning, daily stand-up, sprint review, and retrospective meetings.  • Designed, developed and bundled various small financial utilities using JAVA, Hibernate, XML parser SAX which was distributed to different development teams.  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation. Utilized PyUnit, the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications.  • Wrote Python OO Design code for manufacturing quality, monitoring, logging, and debugging code optimization. Designing ETL process and creation of ETL design and system design documents.  • Involved in Installation and setting up Python /Linux test beds. Worked with JSON based REST Web services. Architecting and deploying AWS EC2 and S3-based environments Worked in Python on a SQL database.  • Used Ajax for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers and Worked on configuring TCP/IP, network interface, assigning static routes and hostnames  • Delivered presentations on Project Status and Current Open Issues Report to Users, Stakeholders and other involved groups. Conducted weekly meetings with the development and testing team to relay any changed requirements and updates on the development and testing.  • Played a key role in the planning, testing, and implementing system enhancements and conversions. Worked closely with project manager in handling the whole project.  • Handy experience in developing web applications by using Python, Django, PHP, C++, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and JQuery Good experience in Shell Scripting, SQL Server, UNIX, Linux and Open stack. Excellent Experience on various Python integrated IDE's such as Sublime Text, Geany, PyCharm, Eclipse and NetBeans.  • Designed and maintained databases using Python and developed Python-based API (RESTful Web Service) using Flask, SQLAlchemy and PostgreSQL.  • Strong expertise in development of web-based applications using Python, Java, HTML, XML, KML, CSS, DHTML, JavaScript, JSON, Angular JS and jQuery. Working knowledge of Python ORM libraries including Django ORM, SQLAlchemy. Experience in working with Python, C++, PHP, HTML, DHTML, XML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Bootstrap, JSON, ReactJS  • Experienced in working with various Python Integrated Development Environments (IDE) like NetBeans, PyCharm, Eclipse, Visual Studio. Experienced in using Pig, Hive, Sqoop, Oozie, Zookeeper, HBase and Cloudera Spark, Manager. knowledge of different Big data analytical and processing tools like Pig, Hive, Spark core and Streaming. Experienced in Development, testing and deployment of enterprise applications on Windows & UNIX platforms using IDEs such as Eclipse, Rational Application Developer (RAD), NetBeans  • Good Experience in Infrastructure Development and Operations involving Google App Engine and AWS Cloud platforms. Tested legacy code written in Python, updated SQL quires in Teradata and PostgreSQL Data Base.  • Designed and developed a horizontally scalable APIs using Python Flask designed Cassandra schema for the APIs and implemented monitoring and established best practices around using elastic search.  • Created bean docker gem for easy creation of additional docker containers on Elastic Beanstalk instances for testing and diagnostics. Used jQuery and AJAX calls for transmitting JSON data Designed and developed microservices using python, kubernetes, docker, Django, node.js  • Designed and lead a team on storage service orchestration API activity to automate Netapp and Hitachi storage processes like Block provisioning using the REST calls using Django Rest Framework, Django. objects between front end and controllers and Utilized continuous integration and automated deployments with Jenkins, Ansible and Docker.