Lead Python Developer Lead <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Lead Python Developer - Want Remote Work Fort Worth, TX • 13+ years of experience in developing web based applications, software development and design using Python, Django, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, Java, JavaScript, JQuery and AngularJS.  • Good experience of software development in Python (libraries used: Beautiful Soup, NumPY, SciPY, MatPlotLib, Python-twitter, Pandas dataframe, MySQL DB for database connectivity) and IDE's Sublime Text, PyCharm, Emacs.  • Experience with Django, a high-level Python Web framework.  • Experienced in MVC frameworks like Flask and Pyramid and MVT framework like django  • Experience with Object Oriented Programming (OOP) concepts using Python, Django and Linux.  • Experience in Python API'S.  • Good Experience in Linux Bash scripting and following PEP Guidelines in Python.  • Extensive experience in using HTML, JS, Angular JS, Node JS, Bootstrap, CSS, AJAX, JSP, JDBC, XML, XSLT.  • Proficient in SQL databases MS SQL, MySQL, Oracle and NoSQL databases MongoDB.  • Familiar with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Experienced in Agile and waterfall methodologies with high quality deliverables delivered on-time.  • Expertise in Querying RDBMS such as MYSQL and SQL Server by using SQL for data integrity.  • Used Python, Perl, CGI, JQuery, JavaScript and JSON at the front end.  • Experience in Shell Scripting, SQL Server, Unix and Linux, Open stack.  • Developed consumer based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML, Behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pair based programming.  • Developed ColdFusion Components, custom tags and modified CF Objects.  • Expertise in Object-Oriented Design and Coding.  • Extensive experience in using Python/Perl to code and design various phases for data processing pipeline.  • Hands on experience with deployment tools like Jenkins  • Followed Agile Methodologies (Scrum) involved in daily stand-up meetings.  • Worked in SDLC, Waterfall, Test driven development (TDD) and Agile/Scrum Methodologies.  • Experience in analyzing and handling large database using Oracle Relational Data Architecture.  • Involved in the development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Very strong full life cycle application development experience.  • Skilled in debugging/troubleshooting issues in complex applications  • Hands on experience with bug tracking tools JIRA and Bugzilla Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Lead Python Developer American Airlines - Fort Worth, TX January 2016 to Present Description: American Airlines is a leading airline company. The project is to build the self-service business term search engine for the next generation data management so that it can be used for wide variety of cross-platforms within the organization.  Responsibilities:  • Participated in the complete SDLC process and used PHP to develop website functionality.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Designed and developed Use-Case, Class and Object Diagrams using UML Rational Rose for Object Oriented Analysis/Object Oriented Design techniques.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL. Built application logic using Python 2.6.  • Used Django APIs for database access.  • Provided GUI utilizing PyQt for the end user to create, modify and view reports based on client data.  • Angular.js is used to build efficient backend for client web application.  • Used Python to extract information from XML files.  • Expertise in Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) and its related technologies like Web Services, BPEL, WSDLs, SOAP1.1, XML, XSD, XSLT etc.  • Participated in requirement gathering and worked closely with the architect in designing and modeling.  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures on MYSQL.  • Developed shopping cart for Library and integrated web services to access the payment (E-commerce)  • Designed and developed a horizontally scalable APIs using Python Flask.  • Designed Cassandra schema for the APIs.  • Implemented monitoring and established best practices around using elastic search.  • Effectively communicated with the external vendors to resolve queries.  • Used GIT for the version control.  Environment: Python 2.6/2.7, JavaScript, Django Framework 1.3, CSS, SQL, MySQL, LAMP, JQuery, Adobe Dreamweaver, Apache web server. Lead Python Developer - Data Engineering Capital One - Irving, TX July 2014 to December 2015 Description: Worked on a customer support application serves to build clients and services covering the entire customer life cycle to help with Account details, subscription details, user details, program details, history, content search, credit card change details, recent activity, manage calls and help site services like call us back, chat with us, contact us etc.  Responsibilities:  • Used Design patterns efficiently to improve the code reusability.  • Used HTML/CSS and JavaScript for UI development.  • Used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Created Reports using JASPER.  • Created data access using SQL and PL/SQL stored procedures.  • Worked extensively on Multithreading and Concurrency for implementing Batch Job Scheduling.  • Deployment and testing of the applications.  • Used HTML, CSS 5, JQuery, JSON and JavaScript for front end applications.  • Managed our servers in development, testing, certification and production.  • Used Linux profiler Valgrind for optimization of code.  • Automated Rabbit MQ cluster installations and configuration using Python /Bash.  • Worked for development and enhancements of all the modules of raildocs and have them running it the design team for project structure.  • Implemented the presentation layer with HTML, DHTML, Ajax, CSS and JavaScript.  • Implemented locking mechanisms using multithreading functionality.  • Used Python Perl, CGI, JQuery, JavaScript and JSON at the front end.  • Developed in Windows and going to deploy it in Linux server.  • Worked on data exchange from website using XML, JAVA and Web Services.  • Used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users  Environment: Python, Dropwizard, Spring Boot, Lagom, Kafka, JSON, GitHub, LINUX, Django, Flask, Varnish, Nginx SOA, RESTful Sr. Python Developer Baxter Healthcare January 2014 to June 2014 Description: Baxter Healthcare develops, manufactures, and markets healthcare equipment and instruments and provides services to clients. Open Data Portals are also a part of Baxter Healthcare open data initiative. There is a portal for each dataset. The portal displays the data for the Key indicators of the data set and provides the data for specific countries, regions and global. The users can make selections from various dropdowns. The portals also provide information on the latest policies, plans etc.  Responsibilities:  • Responsible for analyzing various cross-functional, multi-platform applications systems enforcing Python best practices and provide guidance in making long term architectural design decisions.  • Coded model level validation using Python programming with emphasis in web security.  • Handled Business logics by backend Python programming to achieve optimal results.  • Implemented jQuery to improve the overall usability of the website interface and AJAX functionality to speed up web application.  • Developed views and templates in Django to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Configured Django to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Extensively used Python / Django Framework for developing backend of web applications.  • Used Django APIs for database access.  • Developed web services using Restful technology to support JSON and XML.  • Created new connections through applications for better access to MySQL database and involved in writing SQL & PLSQL - Stored procedures, functions, sequences, triggers, cursors, object types etc.  • Designed RabbitMQ/MongoDB pipeline for routing/storing of email bounce handling records.  • Implemented AJAX to update necessary section of webpages and hence, avoiding the need for reloading the entire web page.  • Developed and tested many features in an Agile environment using Python, Django, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap.  • Creating and configuring virtual development environments with Chef and Virtual Box.  • Managed code with unit tests and GitHub.  • Developed Capistrano scripts to automate deployment on various environments.  • Used GIT as Source control repositories with regular code reviews and pull/merge requests.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.7, CSS, HTML, Bootstrap, JavaScript, AJAX, JQuery, Pandas, MYSQL, Restful API's, Linux, Servlets, JavaBeans, SCRUM, Agile, Heroku, JIRA, GIT JAVA Developer Dotcom Services Pittsburgh,PA - Pittsburgh, PA July 2004 to December 2013 Skills GIT (2 years), JAVA (10+ years), MySQL. (2 years), Python (4 years), SQL (4 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:  Operating Systems Unix, Linux, Windows and Mac  Programming Languages Python, PL/SQL, AngularJS, JAVA  Databases Oracle 10/11g, MySQL, SQL Server and PostgreSQL  Tools Intellij, PyCharm, FileZilla, PL/SQL Developer, and TOAD  Integration Tools Jenkins and Web Builder  Version Control GitHub and SVN  Defect Tracking JIRA, Git, and VersionOne  Cloud  VPC creation, EC2 instance, S3 buckets, RDS instances, Amazon command line, cloudFront, IAM, creating security groups, managing S3 object lifecycle, creating CDN, implementing S3 security & Encryption, Route53, working with databases and DNS, Using bootstrap scripts, AWS EC2 and S3