Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Ebay Enterprise King of Prussia, PA ? Over 14+ years of IT experience with 5+ plus years of experience in Designing and Development of Business intelligence application with QlikView 9.0/10.0/11.0as BI tool.  ? Extensive experience in Full Life Cycle Development including Analysis, Design, Implementation and Maintenance different analytical applications using QlikView suite of Products (QlikView Server, Publisher andQlikView Enterprise).  ? Experience in using NAS storage hosting QlikView applications managed filer security permissions.  ? Proven expertise in analyzing the Business Intelligence needs of the enterprise and building the enterprise Reporting architecture.  ? Expertise in Creating Documents using QlikView 9.0/10.0/11.0using different data sources like Oracle, SQL Server, QVD files, text files, excel and generated dashboard as per the user requirement.  ? Experience with QlikView Sheet objects including various charts types, Trends, KPI's, custom requests for Excel Export, and Fast Change and objects for Management Dashboard reporting.  ? Strong Experience in Extract, Transform & loading data in QlikView Applications & Develop Data models using Star Schema & Snow Flake Schema's.  ? Performance tuning QlikView Applications for faster data reloads & efficient response times.  ? Implemented data level security using Section access that hides selected areas of the dashboard & filters data dynamically depending upon user privileges.  ? Sound Skills in SQL. Validating data using SQL Scripts.  ? Having knowledge on the SDLC methodologies like AGILE, Waterfall model.  ? Involved in Performance Tuning & Deployment of QlikView Applications.  ? Experienced in Training & Supporting end-user reporting needs using QlikView products.  ? Onsite-Offshore coordination in delivering Business Intelligence Solutions.  ? Excellent knowledge in Implementation of Relational Database (OLTP), Data warehousing systems (OLAP) and Data Marts. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Ebay Enterprise - King of Prussia, PA August 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Participated in the complete SDLC process and used PHP to develop website functionality.  ? Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  ? Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  ? Designed and developed Use-Case, Class and Object Diagrams using UML Rational Rose for Object Oriented Analysis/Object Oriented Design techniques.  ? Designed and developed data management system using MySQL. Built application logic using Python 2.6.  ? Used Django APIs for database access.  ? Provided GUI utilizing PyQt for the end user to create, modify and view reports based on client data.  ? Angular.js is used to build efficient backend for client web application.  ? Used Python to extract information from XML files.  ? Expertise in Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) and its related technologies like Web Services, BPEL, WSDLs, SOAP1.1, XML, XSD, XSLT etc.  ? Participated in requirement gathering and worked closely with the architect in designing and modeling.  ? Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures on MYSQL.  ? Developed shopping cart for Library and integrated web services to access the payment (E-commerce)  ? Designed and developed a horizontally scalable APIs using Python Flask.  ? Designed Cassandra schema for the APIs.  ? Implemented monitoring and established best practices around using elastic search.  ? Effectively communicated with the external vendors to resolve queries.  ? Used GIT for the version control.    Environment: Python 2.6/2.7, JavaScript, Django Framework 1.3, CSS, SQL, MySQL, LAMP, JQuery, Adobe Dreamweaver, Apache web server. Python Developer GE Energy - Waukesha, WI July 2014 to August 2016 Responsibilities:  ? Worked with team of developers on Python applications for RISK management.  ? Made Django web based apps for Insurance premium calculations.  ? Designed the architecture of the hardware environments and methodology of the code  ? Done Job scheduling, batch-job scheduling and process control, forking and cloning of jobs and checking the status of the jobs using shell scripting.  ? Used Python OS module on UNIX environment, made job cloning and forking.  ? Responsible for search engine optimization to improve the visibility of the website.  ? Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  ? Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using JSON.  ? Used Unit Test Python library for testing many Python programs and block of codes.  ? Used HTML, CSS, JQuery, JSON and Javascript for front end applications.  ? Involved in testing RESTFull API like Twilio, Facebook and Twitter.  ? Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  ? Involved in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM Process.  ? Participated in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.    Environment: Python, Django, XML, Java, Apache, CSS, MySQL, JSON, DHTML, HTML, JavaScript, Shell Scripts, agile, Restfull, UNIX and Windows. Python Developer PayPal - San Jose, CA June 2011 to July 2014 Responsibilities:  ? Extensively used OOD concepts in overall design and development of the system.  ? Builded the foundation, with all top Drupal modules including the development modules to assist developers.  ? Setting up Drupal environment from Scratch for the entire development team.  ? Implemented SEO based Drupal modules optimizing the search function all over the site.  ? Developed Custom module using Drupal form API as a multistep form for app creation workflow.  ? Used UML Rational Rose to develop Use-case, Class and Object diagrams for OOA/OOD techniques.  ? Prepared and analyzed reports using Python libraries and involved in environment Setup.  ? Created the environment specific settings for a new deployment and update the deployment specific conditional checks in code base to use specific checks.  ? Placed data into JSON files using Python to test Django websites.  ? Involved in writing unit test cases for the functionalities using Nose Test.  ? Wrote Automation Test cases using Robot Framework.  ? Using Amazon SQS to queue up work to run asynchronously on distributed Amazon EC2 nodes.  ? Used Python and Django to interface with the JQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  ? Assisted with the addition of Hadoop processing to the IT infrastructure.  ? Implementing customer data collection with PySpark/Hadoop analytics.  ? Developed Hadoop integrations for data ingestion, data mapping and data processing.  ? Used XML for dynamic display of options in select box and description on web page.  ? Responsible for all client side UI Validation and implementing Business logic based on user selection Angular.JS 2.  ? Involved in developing the Angular.JS Meteor framework for the Single Page Application development.  ? Wrote Python modules to view and connect the Apache Cassandra instance.  ? Responsible for Debugging and Troubleshooting issues.  ? Involved in debugging the applications monitored on JIRA using agile methodology.  ? Setting up network environments using TCP/IP, DNS, DHCP and proxy.  ? Involved in postproduction support for solving complex tickets.  ? Resolved user problems in a timely and accurate manner as a member of the End-User support team.  ? Involved in presenting demos to the clients and also reporting the daily and weekly status to the Project manager.  ? Involved in assigning the tasks to the development team.  ? Created Windows Service to Database Migration  ? Develop Windows service for calling data object from salesforce  ? Involved in handling the developing team and mentoring the junior developers.  ? Involved in creating the database modelling to the project and wrote queries for retrieving data from backend.  ? Deployed the project into Heroku using GIT version control system.  ? Designed RESTful XML web service for handling AJAX requests.  ? Involved in deploying the code into Amazon Web Server using BOTO API.  ? Designed and developed Application Module with Windows Service and C#.  ? Reorganized couple of windows service with WCF.  ? Experience in managing large-scale, geographically-distributed database systems, including relational (Oracle, MySQL) and NoSQL (MongoDB) systems.  ? Familiar with MongoDB clusters, performance tuning, backup and recovery.  ? Manage run-time configuration, processes, scaling, backup and recovery, monitoring, and performance tuning for production MongoDB instances.  ? Used Python to integrate third party application on windows.  ? Used embedded python to interface code like convert data values from C to Python; Perform a function call to a python interface routine using the converted values, and convert the data values from the call from python to C.  ? Developed, tested and debugged software tools utilized by clients and internal customers.  ? Expertise in configuration management automation tools such as Chef, Puppet and Salt,  ? Good coding experience with scripting languages like Perl, Ruby and Bash.  ? Responsible for specialization areas related to Chef for Cloud Automation.  ? Automated the cloud deployments using chef, Python (boto& fabric) and AWS Cloud Formation Templates.  ? Built a comprehensive PERL script, which would call the required ANT scripts and notify the build distribution team in case of Build errors or Completion of the builds.  ? Coded test programs and evaluated existing engineering processes.  ? Responsible for running and maintaining business processes on daily / weekly / monthly basis.  ? Using Linux/Unix, Shell scripts, SQL Server, Sybase 12.5, CA/Autosys batch, ITIL, ITSM, Change and Release Management.    Environment: Python 3.x, Django 1.7, Meteor Framework , Angular.JS 2, Java Script, Coffee Scripting, LESS, HTML, Angular JS, JSON, AJAX, XML, CSS, SQL, MySQL, NoSql, MongoDB, PySpark, Hadoop Bootstrap, Restful Web Services, Beautiful Soup, Jenkins, GitHub, Linux, PyCharm, PHP, HTML5, CSS3, MYSQL, LAMP, PUPPET and CHEF. QlikView / Qlik Sense Developer Anheuser Busch - St. Louis, MO May 2009 to June 2011 Responsibilities:  ? Worked on SAP BO to Qlik migration of Finance Module of Anheuser Busch.  ? Worked on metadata analysis of SAP BO universes and reports. Analyzed and short listed Critical universes and reports which can be migrated to Qlikview and Qlik Sense  ? Work with senior management to plan, define and clarify migration goals, objectives and requirement.  ? Created QVDs for a universe to develop Data Model.  ? Gathering data sources like Teradata, Excel, SQL Server 2008, binary QVW, Inline & txt files in developing the QlikView Data Models.  ? Developed data models based on the client requirements and without any ambiguous or Synthetic tables.  ? Design, Develop, Test, debug and implement Data Models based upon specified requirement.  ? Developed Dashboards using all functions of Qlikview and Qlik Sense similar to the reports in SAP BO.  ? Developed Qlik Sense Applications using features such as KPI Object, Pivot Table, etc.  ? Experience in Using QlikView Functions (Date and Time, Keep, Join, Mapping, String & input Fields etc )  ? Extract, transform and load data from multiple sources into QlikView applications.  ? Design, Develop, Test, debug and implement Qlik Sense Applications based upon specified requirement.  ? Developed data models based on the client requirements and without any ambiguous or Synthetic tables.  ? Experience in Using QlikView and Qlik Sense Functions (Date and Time, Keep, Join, Mapping, String & input Fields etc )  ? Extract, transform and load data from multiple sources into QlikViewand Qlik Sense applications.    Environment: QlikView12, Qlik Sense, NPrinting, Teradata, SAP BO, MS-excel, SQL Server 2008. Developer QlikView Forest Labs April 2007 to May 2009 QlikView Developer Marsh and McLennan - Hoboken, NJ March 2005 to April 2007 Responsibilities:  ? Understanding the requirements from the business users. Suggested better way of presenting charts, which are accepted and successfully implemented in the dashboards.  ? Developed QlikView Dashboards using different Chart, Drill down, Cyclic Groups, List, Input Field, Table Box, Container etc  ? Work with senior management to plan, define and clarify dashboard goals, objectives and requirement.  ? Design, Develop, Test, debug and implement QlikView solutions based upon specified requirement.  ? Re-use the existing QVDs, new tables as QVDs and scripts to generate appropriate fields that help in modeling the data according to the requirements.  ? Gathering data sources like QVD files, Excel, Oracle DWs, binary QVW, Inline & txt files in developing the QlikView Data Models.  ? Developed data models based on the client requirements and without any ambiguous or Synthetic tables.  ? Experience in Using QlikView Functions (Date and Time, Keep, Join, Mapping, String & input Fields etc )  ? Extract, transform and load data from multiple sources into QlikView applications.  ? Developed SET ANALYSIS to provide custom functionality in QlikView Applications.  ? Created Dashboards style of reports using QlikView and Qlik Sense components like List Box, Slider, Buttons, Charts and Bookmarks.  ? Design, Build, Test, Debug the QlikView application in QV Test server environment.  ? Creating QlikView Applications using qvd files from user analytical/Business purpose.  ? Served as QlikView application developer for various ad-hoc analysis requests.  ? Provided ongoing maintenance and support to existing QlikView documents.    Environment:QlikView11.2, QlikView Server/Publisher, Oracle 10, Business Objects, MS-excel, Windows Server 2008. QlikView Developer Hanover Insurance - Raleigh, NC February 2003 to March 2005 Responsibilities:  ? Extracted the data from various databases such as Oracle, MS SQL Server, web files and MS Excel to create and schedule different complex reports as per given business requirement.  ? Involved in User requirements, Documentation and Dashboard Prototypes.  ? Developed various internal prototypes for acceptance testing.  ? Implemented and configured QlikView 9.0.  ? Validation of Qlikview application at base level against QVD's and Excel test files.  ? Eliminated synthetic keys using QVD concatenation  ? Developed data model to reflect a Start model after translating various sources into Dimension and Facts.  ? Implemented tasks to schedule QVD generation and Dashboard refreshes at regular intervals and appropriate dependencies  ? Created batch scripts to process the data periodically as per the business requirements  ? Split the huge tables into multiple QVDs, so that only the recent ones needed to be refreshed for data accuracy  ? Create and manage ETL script generation using QlikView Script.  ? Involved in organizing meetings to know the needs of clients for the Enterprise solution Implementation.    Environment: QlikView 10.0/11, Windows 2003 Server/XP, MS Access, Oracle 10g, MSAccess 2007, MS Excel 2007. SQL Developer Raleigh, NC January 2002 to February 2003 Responsibilities:  ? Effectively participated in requirement gathering, architecture design, Data Modelling, ETL process and development of user interface objects in QlikView applications.  ? Performance tuning of the reports in order to reduce the execution time to generate the reports and thereby improving the overall speed of execution and performance of the reports.  ? Developed various internal prototypes for acceptance testing  ? Worked with data warehousing team to create standard rules and procedures for data validation which reduces QlikView application development time.  ? Migration from QlikView 10 to QlikView 11.  ? Worked with ETL team to build mappings that were used in the Informatica tool to transform the data from the source systems to the target system  ? Analyzed and developed best practices for data management and Extract, Transform, Load (ETL) processes from multiple data sources.  ? Managed schedules and reloading of QlikView data model QVDs and QVWs through QlikView server.  ? Wrote scripts and created batch files for automatic running of QlikView scripts.  ? Written complex expressions using Set analysis and various QlikView functions.  ? Worked on data modeling and developed different complex models as per given user requirement by eliminating circular loops, Synthetic tables and ambiguous relationships.  ? Optimizing existing data models including changing load scripts to load data in optimized way to achieve reduction of loading time, simplifying complex expressions in the front-end, improving layout structure.  ? Created different publisher tasks like reload tasks, reduction tasks and distribution tasks using QlikView Enterprise Management Console.  ? Performed data modeling on requirements analysis by creating table displays, logical data model, star schema models and table designs.  ? Created Dashboard using different components of QlikView like listboxes, multiboxes, slider, buttons, and charts.  ? Handled the end-to-end implementation of QlikView dashboard deployment.  ? Used QlikView Scripting and Complex SQL coding for loading, and transforming.  ? Defined standard themes and color coding schemes to improve the look and feel of applications.    Environment: QlikView 11.x, Cloudera HIVE/Impala, Oracle 9i/10G/11G, SAP BW/ECC, Windows XP/2003 server, HTML and Java Script. Education Bachelor's Skills DATABASE (10+ years), SQL (9 years), ORACLE (8 years), HTML (7 years), QLIKVIEW (7 years), Django, Flask, Java, Javascript, Python Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Business Intelligence Tools QlikView/Qlik Sense, SAP BO.  Database Oracle 9i/10g/11g, SQL server 2008 & 2012, My SQL, Teradata, MS Access.  Web Technologies HTML, JavaScript.  Languages C, C++, Java, Visual Basic, JSP.  MS Office Project management, Excel.  Web browser Internet Explorer 6/7/8/9, Mozilla Firefox 3/3.5/3.6/4.0, Google Chrome, Safari.