Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Spectrum Consulting East Windsor, NJ Information Technology professional with over 14 years of experience  • System Administration on various flavors of UNIX/Linux.  • Software Design and Development.  • QA Testing, Debugging, and user documentation.  • Worked on Freelance projects for various small business.  • Web Server Administration on Apache, Netscape Enterprise Server, and iPlanet.  • Worked with various Databases such as Sybase, Oracle, MongoDB, NoSQL, and MySQL.  • Highly motivated and enthusiastic. Quick learner of new technologies.  • Diverse technical knowledge with strong verbal and written communication skills.  • Efficient organizational and analytical skills with attention to details.  • A self-starter with initiatives and an excellent team player.  • Some experience of "Micro Services" Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Spectrum Consulting August 2018 to Present Working on the NIPT (Non-Invasive Prenatal Testing) dashboard to fix current issues and improve the UI. The UI dashboard is written was developed using Django framework and MySql database for storing the test results uploaded through batch processing. The system also uses Docker container to compartmentalize the CRON processes and web process. The tickets are posted by clinical directors who use the platform.    Technologies used:  Python, Django  MySQL, Docker  Git for source control  JIRA for ticketing Python Developer Tavant, Inc May 2018 to August 2018 Worked on designing and writing custom Feed applications in Python for loading MLS (Multiple Listing Service) data from RETS (Real-Estate Transaction System). The app connects RETS and retrieves MLS data for certain geo location and load the data into Mongo database RAW collection during ingestion based on property classes. The Feed application also consisted of the migration application that process the RAW and create the intermediate and published listing collections after merging geo-spatial data and retrieving additional information from REALTRACS for properties.    Technologies used:  Python, RETS python libraries  MongoDB, AWS, and S3  GIT for source control  Gerrit for build and code review. Application Architect V DataInc - Montvale, NJ April 2017 to January 2018 Worked with Ozone, a strategic platform within the bank proprietary Quartz platform, to facilitate the operational process and management of filters that are utilized to control the trade data. These filtered data feed into the Risk, Collateral, and Capital calculations. The governance framework provides a centralized end-to-end workflow for management of filters/rules, whereas the Dynamic Rule Engine (DRE) provides a common framework to consistently apply the approved filters to control the trades across various consumers (credit, cva [credit valuation adjustment] and other valuation adjustment, imm (internal model method))  • Participate in scrum/jira status meetings  • Implement changes in various modules of Ozone (in Python)  • Implement changes to existing filtering rules based on BA requirements  • Implement new filters based on BA requirements  • Provide DQ extracts to BAs for impact analysis  • Load extracted data to databases for BAs for Analysis  • Participate in validation post-release. Support/ Python Developer Cognizant, Inc - Teaneck, NJ July 2016 to February 2017 Worked in the support Group to manage and enhance Typhoon (in-house software change management) System.  • Based on user issues, update the backend python code to implement changes to fix the system.  • Worked with SVN and Jenkins to perform build of the Typhoon system for minor and major releases to production.  • Worked with MySQL database to improve data quality.  • Worked in a Linux environment using MySQL. Tangoe, Inc - Parsippany, NJ December 2009 to June 2015 • Developed Python deamon processes that filter, price, and load CDR data to Oracle DB.  • Wrote script in Python and Expect API for running commands/programs on remote servers.  • Worked with complete rewrite of filtering script in Python for a major client to process CISCO call manager IPT CDR records based on rules provided by client.  • Maintained and enhanced Python scripts for Chargeback and Rebill clients.  • Implemented services for new and existing clients.  • Created a tool using Java to extract table and data from DB2 database files. Great performance improvement in time over running the python script on windows.  • Developed wrapper scripts in Bash shell to automate execution of multiple Python scripts.  • Used Oracle SQLDeveloper to develop and design SQL queries for implementations.  • Provided support to other developers and groups on CDR related queries.  • Build a web interface pages in Php and Python to view status of CDR load.  • Wrote ad hoc Perl scripts for reporting. QA Python Developer Cigna, Corp - Philadelphia, PA May 2009 to December 2009 • Wrote a complex daemon script in Perl to perform Quality Assurance on Health-related files according to business logic/rules.  • The script monitors input directory for files to be audited as per mapping information.  • Process the file in a separate thread independently according to file layout.  • Use Semaphores and shared memory for tracking status on various running tasks (ie: progress and lines processed)  • Email report on failed audits to respective business group.  • Built secondary monitor tool which could be used to view running processes. UNIX/System Engineer Telcordia Technologies - Piscataway, NJ July 2008 to February 2009 Worked on a project that involved moving an AOS (Area of Service) cluster servers from one SPACE (Database Server) to another SPACE.  • Prepared MOP (Method of Procedure) documentation to "SWING" the AOS (Area of Service) nodes from a source SPACE (DB) to a new target SPACE (DB).  • Wrote and enhanced existing scripts in UNIX Shell and Perl used for data migration.  • Tested MOP procedures to validate successful transition of AOS to new server.  • Built an internal web-site for the Services Group with diagrams depicting the layout of all the production servers. Programmer Analyst Goldman Sachs - Jersey City, NJ January 2008 to May 2008 Worked in the Equity Middle-Office Department to enhance various build scripts and tools.  • Was responsible for running automated test scripts and Production Support.  • Analyzed application requirements and creating JILs for use with Autosys.  • Configured in-house packaging application on Tomcat and Apache.  • Developed new tools to be used for test automation using Perl and UNIX Shell. InfoSys - Bridgewater, NJ February 2007 to May 2008 Programmer Analyst DowJones and Company - Township of South Brunswick, NJ February 2007 to December 2007 • Supported a re-engineering/porting project for internal Web-based DAMS (Digital Assets Management System).  • Re-engineered various application related spooler scripts written in shell and Perl.  • Engineered a generic install script in bash shell for installing and deploying the CPAN modules for DAMS (Digital Asset Management System) and other related projects. Education BS in Computer Science East Stroudsburg University - East Stroudsburg, PA 1993 Skills Javascript, MySQL Links https://github.com/sorkan/New_base https://www.linkedin.com/in/rajeshacharya/ Assessments Reliability — Proficient February 2019 Measures a candidate's tendency to be dependable and come to work. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/tesvvxn2lfrhhb4t Data Analysis — Familiar February 2019 Measures a candidate's skill in interpreting and producing graphs, identifying trends, and drawing justifiable conclusions from data. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/fi7o6hq4gj1rf1pa Conscientiousness — Highly Proficient February 2019 Measures a candidate's tendency to be rule-abiding, well-organized, hard-working, confident, and think before acting. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/wcejoafn1hkwjirg Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.