Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - Well's Forgo - NC Charlotte, NC • 8+ years of experience in Design, Development, Implementation of Python, Django, Flask, JavaScript and client-server technology based applications.  • Experienced in developing web based applications using HTML/HTML5, DHTML, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, Angular JS, AJAX, XML and JSON.  • Designed and implemented large scale business critical systems using Object Oriented Design and Programming concepts using Python and Django.  • Experience on ETL and ELT Tools like SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS) also have knowledge in Data Migrator (IBI).  • Good Experience in Amazon Web Services such as Amazon EC2, Amazon S3 and Amazon SQS.  • Worked on several standard python packages like Numpy, matPlotLib, Pickle, PySide, Scipy, wxPython, PyTables etc.  • Extensive experience on various applications using python integrated IDEs Eclipse, PyCharm, NetBeans and Pyscripter.  • Good experience in developing web applications and implementing Model View Control (MVC) architecture using server side applications like Django, Flask, Pyramid and Spring web application framework.  • Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap and Jquery.  • Implemented responsive web pages using HTML5/CSS3, Bootstrap and XML/JSON based SOAP and REST web services.  • Good experience in handling errors/exceptions and debugging the issues in large scale applications.  • Hands on experience working in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python/PHP) Architecture.  • Experienced in using Caching applications for large scale applications like Memcached, Redis.  • Experienced in working Asynchronous Frameworks like NodeJS, Twisted and designing the automation framework using Python and Shell scripting  • Expertise in working with different databases like Oracle, MySQL, PostgreSQL and Good knowledge in using NoSQL databases like MongoDB and Cassandra DB.  • Proficient in developing complex SQL queries, Stored Procedures, Functions, Packages along with performing DDL and DML operations on the database.  • Expertise in Production support and knowledge of deployment using AWS, Heroku and Jenkins.  • Proficient in Automated Verification and Validation testing tools.  • Hands on Experience in Verification and Validation testing project schedules.  • Excellent working knowledge in UNIX and Linux shell environments using command line utilities.  • Experience working in both Water fall and Agile software methodologies.  • Familiarity with development best practices such as code reviews, unit testing, system integration testing (SIT) and user acceptance testing (UAT).  • Hands on experience in working with various Version Control Systems, mostly GIT, CVS and subversion SVN.  • Involved in all the phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) using Project management tools JIRA, Redmine and Bugzilla.  • Experience with Big data technologies like Hadoop, MapReduce and HDFS.  • Expertise in Verification and Validation tools for coding used in Python.  • Highly motivated, quality minded developer, with proven ability to deliver applications against tight deadlines.  • Possess good interpersonal, analytical presentation Skills, ability to work in Self-managed and Team environments. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Python Developer Well's Forgo - NC November 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  • Analyzed and gathered business requirements specifications by interacting with client and understanding business requirement specification documents.  • Developed the presentation layer using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery and AJAX.  • Worked on front end frameworks like CSS, Bootstrap for responsive web pages.  • Used JQuery libraries for all client side JavaScript manipulations.  • Utilized Python libraries wxPython, numPY, Twisted and matPlotLib.  • Implemented SQLAlchemy which is a python library for complete access over SQL.  • Worked on ElementTree XML API in python to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Skilled in collections and used for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to created user-friendly website interface.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Created entire application using Python, Django, MySQL and Linux.  • Created scripts for system administration and AWS using languages such as BASH and Python.  • Automation (Ansible) and Deploying on traditional VMware, AWS environment.  • Accessed database objects using Django Database APIs.  • Created database using MySQL, wrote several queries to extract/store data.  • Exported/Imported data between various data sources.  • Integrated data from multiple applications using ETL and ELT tools like SSIS.  • Experienced in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM Process.  • Identified several hidden bugs caused by complicated multithreading issues such as race conditions caused by asynchronous events and resolved them.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Took part in the entire project's lifecycle which includes Design, Development and Deploying, Testing, Implementation and support.  • Used Design patterns efficiently to improve the code reusability.  • Coordinated with the offshore development team and assisted them when required.  Environment: Python, Django, CSS3, HTML5, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, Bootstrap, XML, MYSQL, Linux, AWS, GIT, Ansible, SSIS, Agile-Scrum, Linux, Bash. Python Developer Rockwell Collins - Chicago, IL July 2014 to October 2016 Responsibilities:  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Implemented AJAX for dynamic functionality of web pages for front end applications.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard, created using Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Worked on server side applications with Django using Python programming.  • Used Pandas for a data alignment and data manipulation.  • Utilized standard Python modules such as csv, itertools and pickle for development.  • Worked on Python OpenStack APIs and used Numpy for Numerical analysis.  • Used Ajax and JQuery for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  • Developed Wrapper in Python for instantiating multi-threaded application.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to created user-friendly website interface.  • Managed datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL, queried MYSQL database queries from python using ETL and ELT tools like SSIS.  • Used JIRA for bug tracking and issue tracking.  • Added several options to the application to choose particular algorithm for data and address generation.  • Developed the project in Linux environment.  • Used MongoDB implemented automate scripts to back up the old records and transfer these backup files using ftplib library.  • Monitor the Spark jobs in Spark URL and Involved in Unit test and debugging after development.  • Used Agile Methodology and SCRUM Process.  • Maintained the versions using GIT and sending the release notes for each release.  • Supported the issues seen in the tool across all the teams for several projects.  Environment: Python, Django, CSS, HTML, BOOTSTRAP, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, MYSQL, Linux, GIT, Openstack, SSIS, Agile-Scrum, MongoDB. Full Stack Python Developer Williams-Sonoma - San Francisco, CA November 2012 to July 2014 Responsibilities:  • Translated the customer requirements into design specifications and ensured that the requirements translate into software solution.  • Application was based on service oriented architecture and used Python, Django, Ajax, HTML5, CSS for the frontend.  • Worked on backend of the application, mainly using Active Records.  • Created UI using JavaScript and HTML5/CSS.  • Utilized Python Libraries like Boto3, numPY for AWS.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Writing backend programming in Python.  • Used JavaScript and XML to update a portion of a webpage and Node.js for server side interaction.  • Implemented web applications in Flask and Django frameworks following MVC architecture.  • Develop consumer based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML, behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pair based programming.  • Performed Unit testing, Integration Testing, GUI and web application testing using Rspec.  • Used many regular expressions in order to match the pattern with the existing one.  • Developed another scripts that will be moving the data from HDFS to Amazon S3.  • Deployed project into Amazon web services (AWS) using amazon elastic bean stalk.  • Used Celery as task queue and RabbitMQ, Redis as messaging broker to execute asynchronous tasks.  • Managed, developed and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, Oracle DB and PostgreSQL.  • Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis and Numpy for Numerical analysis.  • Developed asynchronous notifications by using tornado.  Environment: Python, Django, Flask, HTML5/CSS, Javascript, Bootstrap, NodeJS, MS SQL Server, Jasper Reports, Eclipse, Linux, Shell Scripting, AWS Elastic Beanstalk, Tornado, Oracle DB, PostgreSQL. Django Developer Python August 2010 to October 2012 Responsibilities:  • Used Agile Methodology and SCRUM Process.  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Participated in the complete SDLC process.  • Developed Business logic using Python.  • Used Django framework for database layer development.  • Developed user interface GUI using CSS, HTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Responsible for setting up Python REST API framework using DJANGO.  • Created database using MySQL, wrote several queries to extract data from database using ETL and ELT tool (SSIS).  • Used memcache as in memory key-value pair database to reduce traffic to database server.  • Wrote scripts in Python for automation of testing jobs.  • Deployment and Build of various environments including Linux and UNIX  • Installed and maintained web servers Tomcat and Apache HTTP (1.3, 2.2) Web servers in Red Hat Linux.  • Used web services for integration and testing.  • Jira is used as project management tool for issue tracking and bug tracking.  • Implemented monitoring and established best practices around using elastic search.  • Effectively communicated with the external vendors to resolve queries.  Environment: Python, Django, C++, JSON, XML, SOAPUI, HTML, Restful API, Shell Scripting, SQL, MySQL, GIT, Linux, JIRA, Apacke HTTP, Tomcat. Software Engineer Aditi Technologies - Bengaluru, Karnataka July 2008 to August 2010 Responsibilities:  • Involved in the Design, development, test, deploy and maintenance of the website.  • UI was developed using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript  • Developed single page application using Backbone.js along with jQuery.  • Responsible for setting up Python REST API framework using DJANGO.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python modules like math, glob, random, itertools, functools.  • Developed Wrapper in Python for instantiating multi-threaded application.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to created user-friendly website interface.  • Responsible for search engine optimization to improve the visibility of the website.  • Used D3.js library for visualizations like transitions, line charts and bar graphs.  • Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  • Designed and developed the presentation layer/client end and handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  • Wrote validation scripts in SQL to validate data loading.  • Use Git for version control.  • Performed Unit and system testing.  • Trained users and did production support.  Environment: Python, Django, MySQL, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, Apache Web Server, Git, Linux. Education Bachelor's Skills DJANGO (9 years), JAVASCRIPT (9 years), LINUX (9 years), Git (7 years), MYSQL (7 years) Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information Technical Skills:    Languages Python, C++, C, SQL, Java and PHP.  Web Development HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap, AJAX, XML JSON  Frameworks Django, Flask, CherryPy, Pyramid, NodeJS, Angular JS, JSP, Numpy, Matplotlib, Servlets.  Servers Apache Tomcat, Apache HTTP, JBOSS  Databases PostgreSQL, MySQL, Cassandra, Redis, MongoDB, SQL Server  Big Data Technologies Hadoop, MapReduce and Spark.    Methodologies Agile (Scrum), Waterfall.  Tools Git, SVN, Mercurial, Memcached, Jira, SSIS, Data Migrator, Visual Studio.  IDE Notepad++, Eclipse, IDLE, Pycharm, Pyscripter.  O.S Windows, Linux, Unix.