Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - GE Erie, PA • Dedicated technical professional having 14+ Years of experience in Software Application Development and Testing. Committed to maintain cutting edge technical skills and up-to-date industry knowledge.  • Displayed and proved capability to learn any new technology and work on it in a matter of few days.  • Extensive experience with multiple technologies like Python 2.7, 3.2, 3.4, PHP, Shell Scripting, Java, C, Perl, and VBA.  • Plenty of experience in automation of manual tasks, report generation, identifying improvement areas, requirements gathering, and working with the clients.  • Strong Knowledge in Django, SOAP, RestFul.  • Good Knowledge in NoSQL(MongoDB).  • Experience in UNIX Shell Scripting.  • Experience in PL/SQL procedures, packages, triggers and DB replication.  • Good at design patterns, Object oriented design and working through complex code bases.  • Experience in building frameworks in Python for Test Automation.  • Good at automating repetitive work through Shell scripts and Python.  • Experienced in Linux shell commands and command line utilities.  • Experience in configuration management using CVS & SVN.  • Exposure for working on many of UNIX platforms.  • Agile Process acquaintance.  • Ability to prioritize responsibilities.  • Ability to manage multiple projects.  • Ability to interact effectively with all levels of management.  • Quick learner & self-motivated individual who think out of box to achieve solutions.  • Experience in developing work estimates, identify and evaluate technology risks, ensure quality deliverables, participate in business meetings, coordinating with all stake holders.  • Experienced in handling projects for entire software life cycle.  • Managed teams and successfully delivered projects under tight deadlines in the past.  • Fast learner and can pick up new technologies/languages quickly.  • Able to analyze a requirement and act accordingly by managing the resources efficiently. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Electronic Life Prediction January 2014 to Present ELP is life estimation software developed by and for Baker Hughes for theirdrilling assemblies. This software predicts the life and reliability drilling tools used by the company. Life prediction provides a cutting-edge way to identify precursors to costly failures in the field and offers proactive guidance during maintenance periods for parts may otherwise have been disregarded based strictly on procedure. Statistical models that relate operating environment to life of the component and are derived from failure data of fielded components, introduce a new way to optimize the efficiency of drilling tools.    Responsibilities:  • Python developed to segregate SOR/feed information based on mapping documents provided by business to pull and load required fields to tables  • Monitoring Python scripts run as daemons in the UNIX/Linux system background to collect trigger and feed arrival information. Helped calculating SLA misses.  • Developed the daemon process that runs in the background listening for network events in Java.  • Developed software in Java to listen for switch and flow stats and populate the MySQL database.  • Developed the installation software of the network management system in Bash.  • Understanding the existing VBA programs.  • Implementing a high level design for the overall program.  • Implement the entire logic in Java.  • Used Eclipse to work on the java code.  • Leading the Automation activity.  • White box / unit testing of the Java code with the baseline results from VBA.  • Integration of various modules implemented in java and it's testing.  • Provide multiple options to accept inputs like XML, database connection, excel file.  • Pushed for more streamlined process that reduced much of the manual work involved.  • Automated most of the manual and reporting work using Python.  • Interaction/meetings with clients and onsite.    Environment: Python 2.7, 3.2, 3.4, Java, VBA, XML, Shell scripting, SQL Server, SQL, Eclipse, Windows, UNIX/Linux Lead Engineer/ Python Rolls Royce April 2013 to December 2013 I was involved in automation of much manual work inside the organization using excel VBA's. Much of the work  involved automation of routine work by various users in the organization including (but not restricted to only  these) the Rolls Royce Center of Excellence team in QuEST, Bangalore, Travel desk team, resource management  team, etc. The work majorly involved working on file for extraction of data, plotting charts, creation of pivot  tables, using Excel's probability and reliability functions, etc.    Responsibilities:  • Python developed to segregate SOR/feed information based on mapping documents provided by business to pull and load required fields to tables  • Monitoring Python scripts run as daemons in the UNIX/Linux system background to collect trigger and feed arrival information. Helped calculating SLA misses.  • Developed the daemon process that runs in the background listening for network events in Java.  • Developed software in Java to listen for switch and flow stats and populate the MySQL database.  • Developed the installation software of the network management system in Bash.  • Leading the Automation activity.  • Understanding the concept / idea for automation, with interactions with users.  • Implementing a high level design for the requirement.  • Developed the daemon process that runs in the background listening for network events in Java.  • Implement the required automation using VBA and testing.    Environment: Python 2.7, Java, Shell scripting, UNIX/Linux, SQL Server, SQL, VBA, Excel, Windows Lead Engineer / Python GE Aviation October 2012 to April 2013 Global Data System (GDS) Porting and Migration  Development of the Global Data System was part of a design system modernization effort. The system consisted of over 200 separate codes and required a large number of user-managed files of several formats. As a tool for integrating the system, the Global Data System software was written.    Responsibilities:  • Developing a very detailed understanding of all the design programs and scripts for the applications.  • Migrating the tools - viz. modifying the make files & scripts for newer compiler, modifying the source code to support the new compiler.  • Internal testing, User Acceptance testing.  • Lead the development team of 5 people working on porting projects in windows.  • Organize and provide a catalogue of the many variables,  • Simplify file input/output, and  • Provide generic procedures for data viewing, editing, interpolation and comparison  • Make the code more generic for future modifications.  • Porting of C, C++ code from older compilers to Microsoft Visual Studio 2005 32-bit applications to Linux 64 bit applications.  • Porting of FORTRAN code from earlier Compaq compilers to Intel Fortran 9.1/11.1 32-bit applications to Linux 64 bit applications and libraries).  • Changes were made to overcome the memory issues with regards to the bad programming practices, and other size changes to the data structures.  • Development of testing framework and automation using with Python,    Environment: Python 2.7, Shell scripting, C, Fortran77, 90, Visual Studio, gdb, Quality Center, Linux 64bit Cluster, Windows Lead Engineer / Python GE Motors - Peterborough, ON April 2012 to September 2012 DS1 Reciprocating Compressor NPI Automation  The DS1 Reciprocating Compressor NPI project implies a single bearing motor application where the driven  equipment supports the drive end portion of the motor shafting. These motors drive reciprocating compressors  used in the Petrochemical Industry. Several new features were incorporated as a part of the NPI. The Automation  team developed design programs to ensure that the Engineering team works with controlled and tested software  that is reflective of the Engineering Design Standards. Further, the design programs also serve as a  communication platform for creating and releasing the input files used to regenerate the parametrically driven  Pro/Engineer models.    Responsibilities:  • Developing a very detailed understanding of all the design programs.  • Automation of the engineering design programs.  • Implementation of new source change requests that were ongoing, (i.e. whenever a new idea (engineering designs) was proposed, it had to be implemented and integrated in the available software and corresponding user document Webpages updated.  • Migration of Design Programs - viz.  ? Understand existing design logic by going through the code.  ? Read the I/P's to programs from NML files,  ? Create User Derived Data Types in FORTRAN to store output data.  • Work on SCR's (source change request). Which involved working on Perl, Python, PHP and Shell Scripting  • Internal testing, Requesting the customer for user level testing.    Environment: Python 2.7 , PHP , Perl, Shell scripting, Fortran77, SVN, Solaris, Windows Lead Engineer / Python QuEST Global / GE JFWTC Bangalore August 2011 to April 2012 ASPL Database Migration:  This project was implemented using agile methodology. ASPL is really a suite of programs tied together with a  common user interface, database, and graphical display package. It is used by engineers and drafters to design the steam path of a turbine, analyze the design, display a graphical representation of the turbine layout, and create  drawings for manufacturing the various turbine parts. But there are also programs outside of ASPL that are used in the areas of proposal generation, development of new designs, and manufacturing.  Our team headed by me at the client side successfully completed the migration activity (from existing Database Sybase ASE12.5 server to Oracle 11g). Following activities were accomplished during this project.    Responsibilities:  • Leading the migration activity.  • Responsible for entire data migration from Sybase ASE server to Oracle  • Migration of API code written for Sybase to Oracle.  • Overlook the migration activity of PL/SQL programs  • Migration of the Perl and shell scripting code written to access/modify database content.  • Migration of the PL/SQL code from Sybase to Oracle.  • Migration of the data contained in the earlier ASPL Database from Sybase to Oracle.  • Migrate the Libraries written using Sybase API's to Oracle's OCCI API's  • Automation of testing using Python.    Environment: Python 2.7, Shell scripting, Perl, PL/SQL, SVN, Quality Center, Solaris, Windows Sr. Lead Engineer / Python QuEST Global / GE Energy - Schenectady, NY February 2010 to August 2011 Bucket Detail System (BDS)  BDS migration activity was unsuccessfully tried with many different global teams from our client over a period of 15 years before it came to our team. Our team was successful in migrating the tool to a new platform and with that gave huge savings (~1M/yr.) to GE spent on maintenance of the legacy tool. I was involved with this project right from the designing phase till the project was successfully ported on a new server.  BDS is a suite of programs tied together with a common user interface ( Python), database (SQLite), and graphical display package (Java). BDS contains all the design logic that is required to create a bucket for a turbine. The original code was written in completely in FORTRAN and was placed under BULL operating system and did not contain any database, so all the data was stored into flat file. We designed a new architecture and migration of the code from Fortran-66 to multiple languages (FORTRAN-95 and Python) and the file data was moved a new database along with designing architecture for the database.    Responsibilities:  • Read and understand the design logic of old FORTRAN programs and implementing the same using multiple languages.  • Learn how to work on BULL operating system.  • Learn new JCL scripting language used in the BULL operating system.  • Implement the User Interface using Java swings  • Design of Database tables and writing new SQL scripts.  • Write a wrapper program in Python to automate the entire process like running different executables of FORTAN and call the Java swing program.  • Integration testing of all the modules.  • Automation of the entire testing using Python.  • Mentoring team members about the new designs being implemented    Environment: Python2.7, Shell Scripting, C, FORTRAN, JCL, SQLite, Ant, BULL OS, Windows, Linux, SQ Lite 3. Sr. Engineer / Python QuEST Global / GE JFWTC Bangalore January 2009 to March 2010 ASPL Design Program Migration  ASPL is a suite of engineering design programs tied together with a common user interface. It is used by engineers and drafters to design the steam path of a turbine, analyze the design, display a graphical representation of the turbine layout, and create drawings for manufacturing the various turbine parts. But there are also programs outside of ASPL that are used in the areas of proposal generation, development of new designs, and manufacturing.  Scope of work included the migration of the entire programs from HP-UX to Solaris along with handling new enhancements that the user requested.    Responsibilities:  • Leading the migration activity of Application HP to HP-UX to Solaris,  • Automation of testing process using Perl scripting.  • Mentoring team members on designing the application.  • Writing new SQL scripts, Internal Testing of code for outputs, and Regression Testing.    Environment: Python2.7, Shell scripting, PL/SQL, C, Fortran, putty, CVS, HP-UX, Solaris, Windows Sr. Engineer QuEST Global / Rolls Royce May 2006 to June 2008 DBA Administration  Worked as DBA administrator I was responsible for the implementation of a Testing environment database (complete installation of Oracle database) on Linux.    Responsibilities:  • Database Administration activities like taking backup, checking log messages, looking for database optimization  • Migration of a database from 9i to 9i and 9i to 10g, the database included huge database of Team-center application (clients: GE and Rolls Royce) used for UG servers.  • Writing PL/SQL scripts for development projects  • Resolving of user issues in Oracle App.    Environment: Oracle 9i, 10g on AIX, Solaris and Windows Software Engineer QuEST Global / Key Safety Systems - NL May 2001 to April 2006 AutoDOE  AutoDOE is statistical software used to automate Engineering Applications like Computer Aided Engineering processes, and carries out Statistical Analysis on the results thus obtained. It is a software tool used to determine "Cause and Effect" relationships among multiple factors and response variables. It aids the analysts to explore design alternatives and automate the design process. It has Integrated Design Environment to carry out Design of Experiments.    Responsibilities:  • Coding in Core-Java, Perl and shell scripting,  • Developing Test plan and Test Cases,  • Configuration management of all the source files for this project.  • Worked on most flavors of Unix platform for testing this product    Environment: Java, AWT, Swings, Perl, Shell Script, AIX, Solaris, Linux, Windows Additional Information Technical Skills:    Operating systems: Windows, Familiar with Unix flavors like AIX, Solaris, Redhat & SuSE Linux  Language: Python, Perl, PHP, C, Java, OOPs concepts, VBA, Shell Scripting  Database: Oracle, SQL Server, MySQL, SQLite, Sybase  Tools & Others: Subversion, Vim, NetBeans, Eclipse, MS Visual Studio, Linux command line utilities