Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - COX Automotive sanjose • Around 5 years' total IT experience as a software engineer and Python Developer and Salesforce Platform.  • Extensive experience in Python Django web frame works in implementing MVC architecture.  • Dealt with python libraries like NumPy, SciPy, and Pandas.  • Experience with full development lifecycle tools including Git, Jenkins, Maven, and Ant.  • Used Python modules such as requests, urllib, and Beautiful soup for Python Data/web crawling.  • Familiar with data processing such as Data Crawling, Data parsing and Data analysis.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Bootstrap, CSS and JavaScript.  • Skilled in debugging/troubleshooting issues in complex applications.  • Experience in developing and documenting Test Plans and automation releases.  • Highly motivated, quality minded developer, with proven ability to deliver applications in proper deadlines.  • Ability to learn quickly and to correctly apply new tools and technology.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  • Worked on Agile/Scrum methodologies.  • Experienced in writing SQL Queries, Stored procedures, functions, tables, views, triggers.  • Experience in dealing with sales cloud, service cloud, marketing cloud.  • Dealt with Apex classes, triggers, Visual force pages.  • Experience in dealing with web service API's like REST with JSON format. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer COX Automotive - Atlanta, GA March 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing, Implementation and support.  • Familiar with three main processes like Data Crawling, Data Parsing and Data Analysis.  • Good at using Python Pandas library.  • Involved in python unit testing.  • Experience in using Python features: Python Data Structures, Lambda Expressions, range and Xrange, PEP8 standardization, Control and Conditional structures.  • Experience writing Python programs in Linux environment where Linux log parsing, Linux Temp folder management, Process management.  • Worked on reading and writing of huge data of different formats like CSV, Excel, HTML and JSON.  • Serialized and DE serialized the python objects mainly data frames using python module Pickle. Stores data in byte format and saves the processing time while reading the data frames.  • Used Beautiful soup to fetch the web data. Prettified the data using beautiful soup so that data can be easily analysed.  • Python Unit test library was used for testing many programs on Python and other codes.  • Experience in writing Complex Queries, Sub Queries, Stored Procedures and Triggers in MySQL.  • Created a Git repository and added the project to GitHub.  • Experience in dealing with Jenkins.  • Utilized Agile process and JIRA issue management to track sprint cycles.  • Experience in Test Driven Development methodology.  Environment: Python, Eclipse, Linux, PyDev, PyUnit, pandas, pickle, beautiful soup, GitHub, agile, Jira. Python Developer Thumbtack - San Francisco, CA June 2016 to February 2017 Responsibilities:  • Installing Python packages like NumPy, scipy in Linux environment.  • Dealt with Django frameworks for web applications.  • Excellent coordination in project activities and ensure that all project phases are followed and documented properly.  • Responsible for create brand new python -based solutions as well as debugging, isolation and resolving of issues.  • Plan, design, review and maintain python based applications and solution.  • Participated in daily scrum to implement agile scrum methodology helping the team maintain focus on the business objective with constant assessment and feedback.  • Manipulation and fetching of data using CRUD operations on MYSQL Database.  • Developing new functionalities and integrating them with other components.  • Unit test all develop module using PyUnit, also develop custom scenario to test worst case scenario for the application.  • Hand full experience on LINUX operating system.  • Used extracted data for analysis and carried out various mathematical operations for calculation purpose using Python library - NumPy, scipy.    Environment: Python, Sublime Text editor, Python, Pycharm, MYSQL, Sublime, Linux, GitHub. Python front end developer Avalon group - Hyderabad, Telangana January 2013 to November 2015 Responsibilities:  • Built an AWS web application to analyze custom twitter trends  • Built database structure and wrote PostgreSQL queries.  • Built Amazon AWS and REDIS servers for data storing.  • Built a web journal with Flask framework and Jinja templates.  • Built Instagram similar web application with Django, WSGI, and Nginx.  • Built travel web application with Django, WSGI, Fabric, Nginx.    Project #2:  Role: Salesforce Developer  Responsibilities:  • Used the sandbox for testing and migrated the code to the deployment instance after testing.  • Dealt with Force.com API and web services including Apex Classes, Apex Triggers and Visualforce pages to develop custom business logic.  • Integrated Salesforce with external master detail using REST and SOAP API's.  • Customized application to extend Salesforce functionality and wrote Apex Classes to provide functionality to the Visualforce pages.  • Used SOQL & SOSL for data manipulation needs of the application using platform database objects.  • Created and used Email templates in HTML and Visualforce.  • Experience working in service cloud, supporting cases, developed workflows and triggers for automated case resolutions.  • Designed various Webpages in Visualforce for customers to select a variety of services offered by the org and integrate them with the pricing team.  • Worked on Salesforce to quick book integration.  • Implemented Security Settings and configured profiles and permission sets.  • Worked closely with sales team and business analysts and performed detailed analysis of business and user requirements, designed the solution by customizing various standard objects of Salesforce.com (SFDC).  • Worked with External objects in Salesforce which is another feature introduced with lightening components.  • Designed, developed, test and deployed custom Salesforce applications software using APEX Classes, Controller Classes, Batch APEX and APEX Triggers for various functional needs in the application.  • Worked on Validation Rules, Workflows, and approval processes.  • Developed Test cases for Unit Testing of the Mappings, and also was involved in the Integration Testing.  • Created and used Email templates in HTML and Visualforce.  • Developed and configured various Reports and Report Folders for different user profiles based on the need in the organization.  • Integrated the Web Services for extracting the data from external systems to display in the pages of Salesforce.com.  • Integrated all Marketo campaigns with Salesforce, providing segmented dashboards and funnel reports.  • Created search layouts to organize fields, custom links, related lists, and other components on record pages.  • Performed troubleshooting of various production issues.  • Resolving issues related to Governor Limits.  • Designed and deployed Custom tabs, validation rules, Approval Processes and Auto-Response Rules for automating business logic.    Project #1:  Role: Web Developer  Responsibilities:  • Designed a web page effectively and responsive using HTML, CSS, JavaScript.  • Learnt about Ajax and JSON.  • Used Adobe Dream Weaver IDE to develop the website.  • Lead a team of five fellow members and delivered tasks within deadline.  • Gained extensive experience while working on project in real time. Intern experience boosted  • My confidence levels to working as well-trained software professional.  Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Ajax, JSON, Adobe Dream Weaver. Education Master's Skills Database. (3 years), HTML (3 years), Python (4 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:  Programming languages: C, Python, Java, MATLAB, GitHub.  Web Technologies: HTML-5, XML, CSS-3, JavaScript, Ajax, JSON, JQuery.  Operating systems: Windows, Linux, Mac IOS.  Database: Oracle11g (SQL & amp; PL-SQL), MySQL.