Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - Bristol Myers Squibb Boston, MA Work Experience Sr. Python Developer Bristol Myers Squibb - Boston, MA December 2012 to Present Developing a Single, consistent, scalable user interface solutions for delivering global web based content and applications to clients and employees. Multiples portal architectures and different solution exist for each region. These services support global client engagements for Equity, fixed Income, Research, Prime brokerage and IBD.  Responsibilities:  • Participated in all stages of Software Development Life Cycle like Planning, Analysis, Design, Implementation and Testing.  • Model View Control architecture is implemented using Django Framework to develop web applications.  • Implemented Business logic, worked on data exchange, processed XML and HTML using Python2.7 and its familiar framework Django.  • Worked on Django API's for accessing the database.  • Developed Views and Templates with Python and using Django's view controller and template language, Website interface is created.  • Designed and Developed User Interface using front-end technologies like HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, AngularJS, Bootstrap and JSON.  • Used IBM DB2 SQL stored procedures and UNIX Shell Scripts for importing/exporting Data and Conversions.  • Created Django dashboard with custom look and feel for end user after a careful study of Djangoadmin site and dashboard.  • Python Unit test library was used for the purpose of testing many programs on Python and other codes.  • Worked on selenium testing framework.  • Performed different testing methods like unit testing, Integration testing, web application testing and selenium testing.  • For the manipulation of data from the database various queries using SQL were written and created a database using MYSQL.  • To build and populate DB and to ensure the standards, the team of QA was also collaborated.  • Used AJAX for Better interactivity for the end user and easier navigation and AJAX is compact.  • Implemented RESTful Web Services for the data transportation between multiple systems.  • Built various graphs for business decision making using Python matplotlib library.  • Used Python library Beautiful Soup for webScrapping.  • Worked on Jenkins continuous integration tool for deployment of project.  • Deployed the project into Jenkins using GIT version control system.  • Created Git repository and added to GitHub project.  • An application was developed in Linux environment and dealt with all of its commands.  • Performance and consistency being the primary components of thought, the code was tuned.  • Actively worked as a part of team with managers and other staff to meet the goals of the project in the stipulated time.  • Implemented automate scripts to back up the old records using MongoDB export command and transfer these backup files into backup machine using ftplib.  • Maintaining multiple copies of data in different database servers using MongoDB Replication concept.  • Experienced in Linux shell commands and command line utilities.  • Worked in the team and faced challenges during the project development and production process.  • Excellent communication and time management skills.  • Capable to learn new technologies and to work in the team environment independently.  • Developed and configured test automation networks and execute stability and performance tests.  • Facilitated Sprint Planning, Daily Scrums and Retrospectives if the ScrumMaster is not able to do so for any reason  Environment: Python, Selenium, Django, Java Script, HTML, XHTML, Angular JS, JQuery, JSON, AJAX, XML, CSS, IBM DB2, SQL, MySQL, Bootstrap, Restful Web Services, matplotlib library, Beautiful Soup, Jenkins, Git, GitHub, Linux, Eclipse, Java, J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, Struts, Jquery, Ajax, SenchaExtjs, Node.Js, Bootstrap, Backbone.js, Oracle, Crud, Pl/Sql, Jdbc, Apache Cxf, Weblogic, Subversion (SVN), Mongo DB, Coherence, Junit, Agile, Uml, Jsp, Jstl (Java Server Pages standard Tag Library), Servlet, Maven, Itext, Google Web Kit (Gwt), Jasper Report, Ilog, Web 2.0, Soa. Sr. Python Developer Energy Manufacturing and Logistics Company - Boston, MA June 2011 to November 2012 Philips 66 Information Technology group provides Technical Support for the Philips Business which is dealing with the Energy Manufacturing and Logistics Company. In this developing, designing of the websites to support the business needs and Enterprise operational requirements. Creating and updating the documentation for ongoing support of web applications.  Responsibilities:  • Architect, Designed and implemented key services within the project.  • Worked on development and enhancement of automated tools for testing, integration and global application development. This includes detail description of availability. Also enhanced the check out and registration process.  • Work with team of developers on python applications for RISK management.  • Managed full-life development cycle.  • Held overall responsibility of coordination of implementations of software builds and releases  • Provided analytics to help determine optimal way to assemble releases  • Tracked any additions, deletions or change in scope on the published release plan including efficient tracking of defects.  • Automating analysis of large data sets. Built the release plan roadmap and keep maintained for communication.  • Worked on UI modification using HTML, CSS. Developed Application logic using Python 2.7 and Django framework.  • Wrote backend data access Logic using MYSQL and SQL Server  • Used Web Services to extract Supplier inventory for various high end items.  • Integrated the application with different internal system.  • Built the responsive UI with Angular JS, Bootstrap-4, Node JSand SCSS. Developed thedashboard for displaying charts, graphs and other analytics-related widgets  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed entire front end and back end modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Designed and developed data center management system using MySQL.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using python. Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  • Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development. Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  Environment: Python, Django, MySQL, Windows, Linux, HTML, CSS, JQuery, JavaScript, Apache, Linux, Java, J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, Struts, JSF, DOJO, Node.Js, Angular.Js, Bootstrap, Backbone.Js, SenchaExtjs, Ajax, DB2, Crud, PL/SQL, JDBC, Apache CXF, Soap, Mongo DB, Coherence, Webservices, Eclipse, Websphere Portal, Git, Github, Junit, Scrum, UML, JSP, JSTL, Servlet, Maven, XML, Itext, Oracle ECM, Google Web Kit (Gwt), Jira, Jasper Report, Ilog, Jrules, Web 2.0, SOA, JMS, Apache Tomcat, PHP. Senior Java Developer Centene - Great Falls, MT June 2010 to May 2011 Centene is a leading multi-line healthcare enterprise that provides programs and related services to individuals receiving benefits under Medicaid, including Supplemental Security Income (SSI) and the State Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) . In addition, the Company contracts with other healthcare organizations to provide specialty services including behavioral health, disease management, managed vision, nurse triage, and pharmacy benefit management and treatment compliance. The system interfaces with various external systems for user authentication, getting price quotes, obtaining contracted information, sending provisioning information etc.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in multi-tiered J2EE design utilizing MVC architecture Struts Framework, Hibernate and EJB deployed on Websphere Application Server connecting to an Oracle database.  • Worked on the Spring framework like Spring IOC and Spring DAO.  • Architectured, develop, deployment of front-end and presentation layer logic of sites using JSP, HTML/DHTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Develop software in JAVA/J2EE, EJB, Struts, XML, Oracle and Enterprise Architecture.  • Used iBATIS framework with Spring framework for data persistence and transaction management  • Expertise in MVC Architecture using JSF and Struts framework and implementing custom tag libraries.  • Used Spring framework for dependency injection and integrated with Hibernate and JSF.  • Developed the application under J2EE Architecture using Spring, Hibernate, Servlets and JSP  • Developed application infrastructure using GWT/GXT as the front-end architecture using AJAX.  • Architectured& Designed the Restful web services and developed core component layers like xml validation, core service layer, solr search and transformation components.  • Worked with the development team on the UI architecture and design of the prototypes.  • Used EJB, JMS, Java Script in enhancement of the product  • Used JQuery JavaScript libraries for providing richer user interface and facilitates asynchronous request invocations using AJAX.  • Create and maintain Amazon EC2 instance that supports the company's project management site and Mercurial as version control.  • Build and maintained a Selenium Regression test suite.  • Designed Use Cases using UML and managed the entire functional requirements life cycle using water fall model.  • Designed the UML diagrams based on the OOAD principles  • JSON is used for serializing and deserializing data that is sent to or receive from JSP pages.  • Designed and Developed Servlets and JSP pages for authentication  • Used Ant for developing build scripts and deploying the application  • Built CVS and XML file loaders and splitters for financial data.  • Involved in issue tracking and agile project management using JIRA  • Designed Interactive GUIs using Java Applets and Swing.  • Implemented Cognos SDK code for extracting the report schedules defined by power users.  • Created web services using SOAP for SOA to get data from Mainframes and content manager.  • Generate Cobol procedures to apply business logic to the data.  • Batch program has been written using PL/I procedure  • Configuring and analyzing JCL to execute mainframe batch  • Wrote Java programs, performed builds, monitored DB2 data and ran SQL.  • Responsible for development and support of Service Activation System (SAS) written in JSP, Servlets, Spring, Hibernate and Web Services.  • Developed Java Script and Action Script, VB Script macros for Client Side validations.  • Developed web Application for the online giving application using ASP.Net (C#), HTML  Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring, Ibatis, Struts, JSF, EJB, Jquery, My Sql, Toad, Sql Server, DB2, Apache Axis2, WSDL, Netbeans, Jboss, Clearcase, Mercurial, Selenium, Waterfall Model, UML, JSP, Servlet, ANT, XML, EMC Documentum, JIRA, Swing, Cognos, Ilog, Oracle ADF, Oracle BPM, IBM MQ Series, Apache Tomcat, Linux, Unix, Ruby, Wordpress, Drupal, .Net, C, C++, Mainframe, Cobol, PL/I, JCL, SQL, SAS, VB, ASP. Senior J2ee Developer Fidelity Investments - Irving, TX December 2008 to May 2010 XTRAC is Fidelity's workflow product which is specifically engineered and systematically fine-tuned to optimize the high-volume, geographically-distributed, document-intensive and integration-intensive customer processes for service-based companies' operations. XTRAC is used to set up business rules that automatically route items of work to the people in the organization that process the work. We can configure different paths for different types of work. Using XTRAC, people in the organization can initiate work from customer requests, attach notes, correspondence, adding documents; split, transfer, link, or suspend work items; etc.  Responsibilities:  • Agile methodology was adopted in the development, and used Scrum method of project management.  • Implemented UI layer using Flex andbusiness layer usingSpring MVCand developed persistence layer using Hibernate.  • Designing Flex UI components as well as development of Flex custom components.  • Developed eye catching MXML view components using Flex Builder.  • Used Cairngorm MVC Architecture to handle the events and to retrieve the data from the server.  • Responsible for design and development of user interface usingFlex Layout and Navigation, Data grid menus, and skinning components.  • Used Cisco Cues charts for creating Bar charts, Line charts and Pie Charts to show the project specific performance metrics  • Integrated Flex with BlazeDS to communicate Server side Objects which was build using Spring Framework and Hibernate.  • Extensively used RemoteObjects to retrieve data from the remote server and perform required business functionalities from the front end.  • Used spring framework modules like Core container module, Application context module, Spring AOP module, Spring ORM and Spring MVC module.  • Configured Spring Application-Context.xml used by spring container to inject dependencies to java classes to optimize memory resources.  • ImplementedSpring IoC (Dependency Injection) and Spring Aspect Oriented Programming (AOP) for the Business as well as Lookup Service Layer development.  • Developed / modified the model components to incorporate new business level validations.  • Responsible for the oracle schema design, generating various POJO objects and generating their corresponding Hibernate mappings (.hbm) files.  • Consumed WebServicesfor getting the credit card information from third party application.  • Used Singleton and DAO design pattern.  • Test Driven development is done by maintaining theJunitand FlexUnit test cases throughout the application.  • Log package is used for the debugging.  • Used ClearCase for version control.  • Ensuring adherence to delivery schedules and quality process on projects.  Environment: Java, J2EE, Java, J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, Flex, Action Script, MXML, XML, XSD, Java script, Blaze DS, Cairngorm MVC Framework, IBM RAD, ClearCase, Oracle 10g, Log4j, Weblogic, Sql, DbVisualizer, Webservices, Agile, ClearQuest, Maven, UML (Rational Rose), HTML, CSS and Windows 2000 Prof Java Developer People's United Bank - Bridgeport, CT November 2006 to November 2008 People's United Bank is a diversified financial services company which provides consumer, commercial and wealth management services through approximately 375 branches in Connecticut, Massachusetts, Vermont, New York, New Hampshire, and Maine. Through additional subsidiaries, People's United provides equipment financing, asset management, brokerage and financial advisory services, and insurance services  Responsibilities:  • Followed the Agile methodology iterative process for each of the module in the project.  • Developed the Login Module and Reimbursement Module.  • All modules developed with the framework design patterns and DAOs, Hibernatefor persistence layer, SpringFramework for Application layer.  • Prototyped Flex based RFC using Flex, consuming web services using BlazeDS.  • Used Spring framework in enabling Controller Class access to Hibernate.  • Designed and developed several Flex UI Screens and Custom Components using MXML and Action script.  • Designed and developed user interface using Flex Components: ViewStack, Checkboxes, Repeater, Title Window, Text Area and others.  • Extensively used to data models to store the form data.  • Worked on a proof of concept on Internationalization in flex.  • Developed Action Script functions for event handling response handling and error handling  • Implemented Singleton Service Locator design patterns in Cairngorm MVC architecture to interact with backend.  • Implemented JSON with Flex to feed Data grids into the web application.  • Worked on development of Error Handling mechanism on the Flex side by catching the error  code and message streamed from server and wrapping it in a custom Exception Object.  • Used Blaze DS to connect flex application with backend J2EE and Web Services layer to pull out the data to Flex UI components  • Was responsible for deploying and testing webservices components.  • Responsible to create WebServices to various web applications using Apache Axis 2 responsible to create WSDL, WSDL2Java and Java2WSDL Stubs  • Extensively used SOAP in webservices to communicate with other applications.  • Used SAX and DOM for parsing XML.  • The Log package is used for the debugging.  • Created JUnit and FlexUnittest case design logic and implemented throughout application.  • Used ANT tool for building and deploying the application.  • Created Data model (Schema) of the Database.  • The project was implemented in Websphere Application Server for the development and deployment.  • Created components that have multiple views using States and also usedEffectsand Transitions when a State is entered or exited.  • Participated in regular code reviews and design meetings.  Environment:Java, J2EE, Java, JSP, J2EE, Hibernate, Log4j, Struts, JSON, Apache Axis 2, Spring, WebServices, Adobe flex builder, Flex API, Blaze DS, Flex, MXML, Action script, Tomcat Web Server, Websphere, IBM RAD, ClearCase, JQuery, Agile, VSS, Sql Server, Pl/Sql, TOAD, XML, CruiseControl, Unix, HTML, XSLT and CSS. Java Developer Liberty Mutual Insurance - Jersey City, NJ September 2005 to October 2006 Liberty mutual is a market leader in key insurance and investment product lines. Liberty Mutual continually seeks to better serve its customers by leveraging ongoing product innovation, knowledge and experience, a strong brand, a broad and powerful distribution system. The project deals with building up of a new web-site for Liberty Mutual Agents to assist Liberty Mutual customers. This web-site is used by Underwriters as well. Agents were given access to view their corresponding policy related documents.  Responsibilities:  • Created the User Interface screens using Spring MVC for logging into the system and performing various operations on network elements.  • The users are classified into various organizations to differentiate the privileges between them in accessing the system.  • Used display tag to render large volumes of data. Bean, HTML and Logic tags are extensively used to avoid java expressions and scriplets in JSP.  • Spring Controllers that are having the business logic to select the EJBs to call.  • Design patterns like Session Façade, Command, Singleton and DAO are implemented in business layer.  • EJBs are created for Backend operations. Hibernate is used for Database persistence.  • JMS is used to send message objects to client queues and topics.  • JUnit test cases are created for unit testing.  • Log4j is used for logging purposes and debug levels are defined for controlling what we log.  • Ant is used for building the application EAR.  • Hibernate annotations are included for Oracle DB.  • Working with on-site and off-site (India based) resources for successful implementation of the Workflow module  Environment: Java, JSP, Servlet, Struts, AJAX, JDBC, EJB, XML, XSL, JMS, MQ Series, Oracle, WebLogic, Ant, Axis &JBuilder, Win-XP. Education Master of Science in Science and Engineering University Of Boston - Boston, MA