Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - USAA Boston, MA • Around 8 years of experience as an Application Developer and coding with Analytical programming using Python, Django Perl, Oracle, UNIX.  • Experienced with Object Oriented Programming, Software Development Life Cycle, Database designs, agile methodologies, coding and testing of enterprise applications.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, XML, CSS, HTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Worked with different kind of data bases like MySQL, MSSQL Server, Oracle DB, Teradata and Apache Cassandra.  • Experienced in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, Subroutines, functions on SQL .PL/SQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Worked on AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings.  • Experienced in LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python/PHP) and WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python/PHP) Architecture.  • Extensive experience in Statistical Analysis, Reporting involving analysis, Design, Development, testing and validating the applications.  • Familiar with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web Services.  • Experience in writing scripts using Gherkin Syntax in Behave framework in Python.  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  • Strong experience in using different Python libraries like Pandas, Numpy, pypyOdbc, pymssql,pyhamcrest, requests, grequests,urllib, urllib2, celery, pickle, jinja2, itertools, lxml, matplotlib etc.  • Worked on version control tools like GIT and SVN to maintain and deploy code and has also been involved in creating modules for company's designed pipeline architecture to make it efficient and precise. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Python Developer USAA - Boston, MA March 2014 to Present • Designed and developed the User Interface for the project using HTML, CSS, JavaScript and AJAX.  • Developed views and templates with Django's MVT (model, view and template) to create a user-friendly website.  • Creating Behave scripts using Gherkin syntax.  • Developed API modularizing existing python module with the help of pyYAML libraries.  • Developed the front end module of the application using Python 2.7, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JSON and JQuery.  • Entire Front end and back end modules of the project are developed using Python with Django Framework.  • Designed and developed the data management of the project using MySQL databases.  • With the use of Django's Database API, accessed database objects.  • Written Python Scripts to parse the XML documents and load the data in database.  • Used existing Python and Django modules and rewritten to deliver data in certain formats.  • Client side validations are handled using JavaScript.  • Client side manipulations are done using JQuery and JavaScript.  • Developed Java beans and JSP's by using Spring and JSTL tag libs for supplements.  • Designed and developed middleware, using RESTful web services based on a centralized schema which is consumed by thousands of users.  • Worked on Python Modules and Packages.  • Deployed Django web application in Apache webserver and carpathia cloud web deployment.  • Used Python Data structures like lists, dictionaries, tuples  • Used RAD 7.0 for implementing Static and Dynamic web services for consuming and providing services related to the business.  • Experienced in writing indexes, views, constraints, stored procedures, triggers, cursors and user defined functions or subroutines in MySQL.  • Developed data insertion forms and validated them using JavaScript.  • Used React.js framework to render the code we declare the code in the react. Components then the react rendered and updated the code.  • Used React.js to specifically breeze the code by using a specific syntax called JSX in which Html and the JavaScript mixed making code simple.  • Used AJAX, Java script and GWT to create interactive user interface.  • Implemented Ext JS Data Grid, Charts, Forms and Layout Manager Components.  • Developed internal application using Angular.js and Node.js connecting to Oracle on the backend.  • Used Dojo for the client side development and validations.  • Developed a multi-user web application using JSP, JSTL, Action Forms, Action Classes, JavaScript and JDBC to provide the needed functionality.  • Implemented the database connectivity using JDBC with Oracle Database as backend.  • Creation of REST Web Services for the management of data using Apache CXF.  • Created Node.js middleware application server to encapsulate modern JS widget framework.  • Developed web pages using HTML/CSS and JavaScript.  • Created various UI components for different web pages using HTML, JavaScript, and Ext JS.  • Used JavaScript for Client Side validations.  • Created distributed Oracle coherence domains, configuration and system design based on oracle coherence.  • Designed and modified User Interfaces using JSP, JavaScript, CSS and jQuery.  • Designed and Developed Servlets and JSP pages for authentication.  • Strong implementation in handling Angular.js, Ajax Request and Response using Java Spring and JSON.  • Designed and modified User Interfaces using JSP, JavaScript, CSS and jQuery.  • Involved in the creation of interface to manage user menu and Bulk update of Attributes using JS, Ext JS and jQuery.  • Worked on various Web Designing like Bootstrap, React.js, jQuery, JavaScript, JSON, Backbone.js, CSS, JSP.  • Working with Responsive Web design using Bootstrap.js.  • Built main application in Python, Django leveraging technologies such as Tastypie, Angular.js, Backbone.js, Ember.js, and Celery.  • Used JavaScript for developing UI Components like Editable drop down, data-driven menu customizations.  • Development for both backend and front end applications. Extensive Programming by using PHP.  • Designed and Developed application screens using Swing, HTML, jQuery, JSP, Node.js, Ext JS, Angular.js, Can.js and CSS.  • Developed AJAX scripting to process server side JSP scripting.  • Created Ext JS custom UI components and implemented UI MVC framework.  • Developed JSPs, Struts Actions and Action Forms, Tiles layouts and DB2 SQLs.  • Developed Oracle PL/SQL Stored Procedures and Queries for Payment release process and authorization process.  • Fetch data from mongo DB using mangoose/ monk of Node.js.  • Involved in user interface development using JSTL.  • Developed user interfaces using JSP, JSF frame work with AJAX, Java Script, HTML, DHTML, and CSS.  • Developed many JSP pages, used Dojo in JavaScript Library, JQuery UI for client side validation.  • Developed HTML5 Mobile application with HTML5, Java Script, JQuery, JSON and RESTful web service.  • Developed XSD for validation of XML request coming in from Web Service.    Environment: Python, Django, Angular.js, Node.js, React.js, JavaScript, Backbone.js, JQuery, Bootstrap, JSP, HTML, CSS, WordPress, Ajax, jQuery, GWT, SVN, MongoDB, Coherence, JBOSS, Eclipse, Log4j, HTML5, DB2, CRUD, SQL, Struts, JSF, DOJO, Apache CXF, Servlets, JDBC, Oracle, Maven, Oracle ECM, JIRA, PL/ SQL, SOAP, Servlet, ILOG, JRules, EJB, Maven, XML, Itext, Jasper report Sr. Python Developer Bites Squad - Atlanta, GA September 2012 to February 2014 • Worked on front-end frame works like CSS Bootstrap for development of web applications.  • Implemented Python scripts to parse JSON documents and load the data in database.  • Implemented Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Developed python scripts to analyze JSON documents and load data in database.  • Written Unit, Functional and Integration test cases for cloud computing applications on AWS using Python.  • Behave Framework and native Python programming was used in developing the application.  • Worked with different Python libraries like Pandas, Numpy, PyHamcrest, pymssql, pypyodbc etc.  • Developed the UI of the application using Django and implemented MVT framework.  • Worked on developing UI using CSS, HTML, JavaScript, JQuery and JSON.  • Participated in all the stages of software development lifecycle including design, development, implementation, and testing.  • Experienced in Cucumber/Gherkins syntax of coding.  • Developed Behave framework scenarios backed up with the Python code.  • Used collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different your defined objects.  • Wrote Python routines to log into the websites and fetch data for selected options.  • Implemented a login module for user, registration of the products, placing the order and tracking the order.  • Developed Python Django forms to record data and the Login module page for users.  • Designed email marketing campaigns and created interactive forms that saved data into database using Django Framework.  • Worked in Test driven development with Behave in Python.  • Developed web pages using Angular.js, Forms, Components, Layouts, Events, Validations, Trees, Grids components.  • Used MVC architecture of Ext JS Framework to simplify the code complexity and increase clean code.  • Developed UI components for email and link sharing of documents and files for a Content. Management System using Backbone.js and jQuery.  • Developed web pages using HTML/CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed additional UI Components using JSF and implemented an asynchronous, AJAX (jQuery) based rich client to improve customer experience.  • Developed a web 2.0 control console using GWT to manage data matching for data staging.  • Used JavaScript for developing UI Components like Editable drop down, data-driven menu customizations.  • Designed and implementing a Node.js based mobile text and voice messaging app and its cloud backend.  • Created web application prototype using jQuery and Angular.js.  • Designed and developed carrier selection and product selection web pages using HTML, Struts, Servlets and JavaScript.  • Developed the Portlet Web Interface using Ajax, JSF.  • Defined ExtJS (UI Layer) Architecture and Design screen mock-up using ExtJS and Sencha Architecte.  • Extensively used Oracle programming using SQL and PL/SQL.  • Developed user interface using JSP, JSTL and Custom Tag Libraries and AJAX to speed the application.  • Configured Maven dependencies for application building processes that created Pom.xml files.  • Developed JavaScript based components using Ext JS framework like GRID, Tree Panel with client reports customized according to user requirements.  • Providing a responsive, AJAX-driven design using JavaScript libraries such as jQuery, Angular.js and Bootstrap.js and using Subversion for version control.  • Used JavaScript and jQuery for validating the input given to the user interface..  • Utilize Dojo framework for performing front end validations  • Developed additional UI Components using JSF and implemented an asynchronous, AJAX (JQuery) based rich client to improve customer experience.  • Architected mainframe modernization solutions using SOA/web services, middleware integration technologies and ESB based on Java/J2EE.  • Build code using IDE IntelliJ and deploy it using Apache Tomcat.  • Leading Frameworks Team like Angular.js, Backbone.js, Bootstrap.js and JMVC, D3.js and Projects UI Designing Team.  • Extensively used the DOJO Toolkit to control and provide the rich functionality to GUI.  • Working as a senior developer on development of trading web applications using technologies such as Angular.js, jQuery and Spring MVC.    Environment: Python, Django, JavaScript, Apache CXF, Angular.js, Node.js, Html5, WebLogic, Backbone.js, REST, Ant, Hibernate, MongoDB, Bootstrap, STRUTS, JSP, CSS3, AJAX, Subversion (SVN), Junit, Agile, UML, JSP, JSTL, Oracle, Dojo, CRUD, SQL, WordPress, EJB, PL/ SQL, Eclipse, SOA, Jasper Report, ILOG Itext, Jira, Web 2.0, Servlet, Maven, Sr. Python Application Developer WellsFargo - New York, NY September 2010 to August 2012 • Involved in the design and maintenance of the databases using Python and Python based API using Flask, SQL and PostgreSQL.  • Hands-on experience in Python scripting, in web development using Django.  • Used Python scripts to update the content in the database and manipulate files.  • Involved in the refactoring the UI which involves extensive use of AJAX.  • Expertize in LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL and Python) architecture.  • Designed and Developed the Solution Architecture package to identify all possible solutions for the project using UML methodologies.  • Used J2EE Design patterns (Singleton, Service Locator and DAO).  • Implemented MVC Architecture using JSF and Struts framework and custom tag libraries.  • Developed a multi-user web application using JSP, JSTL, Action Forms, Action Classes, JavaScript and JDBC to provide the needed functionality.  • Used Hibernate for data manipulation and access.  • Used Spring AOP and dependency injection framework for business aspect of the application.  • Used Spring DAO classes for data access.  • Testing - unit testing & integration testing of the application.  • Worked in the environment of Multi-tier architecture where in our case the presentation tier consists of HTML, CSS, JavaScript and DHML, the web server is java servlets and the database is mysql.  • Coded JavaScript for page functionality and pop-ups and used DHML for dropdown menu bars and display only when the user clicks on links or buttons otherwise to hide the content.  • Architected and implement REST api interfaces using javascript and Node.js.  • Software is built as a web app on Node.js with Backbone.js. CSS is compiled with LESS and HTML template engine is Jade.  • Developed Web Java/J2EE application (JSP, EJB) using Struts/Tomcat/Xerces for Sybase, JBuilder.  • Involved in developing the UI panels using JSF, XHTML, CSS, DOJO and JQuery.  • Experience in Web development with JavaScript, Dojo, JQuery, JSP, XML, and HTML.  • Developed Broker Administration UI as SPA (Single Page Application) with JavaScript, AngularJS, Bootstrap, jQuery, HTML5, and CSS.  • Designed Frontend with JavaScript Framework in Angular.js and jQuery.  • Developed cross-browser/platform HTML, CSS, and JavaScript to match design specs for complex page layouts while adhering to code standards.  • Used Perl, Php and MySql to develop several web sites, SEO (search engine optimization) skills.  • Used TOAD for all database query testing and optimizations.  • Implemented in web development with help of DOJO to achieve one stop approach.  • Involved in Creation, Manipulation and Supporting the SQLServer Database.  • Java and JSP developer for J2EE web application on WAS, DB2 and AIX.  • Written Web services using Apache Axis2 and generated the WSDL.  • Proficient use of developing applications using Eclipse, MyEclipse, RAD, NetBeans and ANT.  • Configuration and deployment of application on to Jboss application server.  • Create and maintain Amazon EC2 instance that supports the companies project management site and Mercurial.  • Designed and implemented the User Interface using JavaScript, HTML, XML, CSS3, AJAX, backbone.js, EXT JS, JSP.  • Developed responsive HTML, CSS2, jQuery and JavaScript based theme with a fluid grids.  • Created ClearCaseVOBs and setup triggers and backups for a new project.  • Implemented SeleniumIDE with javascript for Web apps.  • Expertise in employing Water Fall Model and best practices for software development.  • Design and development of components, such as Class, and Sequence diagram in UML.  • Developed Servlets and JSPs based on MVC pattern using Struts framework and Spring Framework.  • Design and Develop programs in C/C++ to integrate as per the users requirements.  • Have used JAXB to marshal and unmarshal java objects to Communicate with the backend mainframe system.  • Designed and developed User Interface Web Forms using Flash, CSS, Adobe, Photoshop, Dreamweaver, and JavaScript.  • J2EE to communicate legacy COBOL based mainframe implementations.  • Code development using PL/I, COBOL, JCL and DB2.  • Developed using VB, Asp, C/C++, some java, javascript, vbscript, SQL, ADO record sets.  • Working Closely with EMC Documentum to implement Engineering Design Storage Repository.  • Using JIRA to manage the issues/project work flow.  • Developed client GUI modules using Swing, Java script and Flash.  • Involved in Installation & Configuration of Cognos in distributed environments on Solaris.  • Development/Deployment of jar files into ILOGRule builder.  • Design, Implement and Test Oracle ADF applications using JDeveloper.  • Involved in the development of Services using Oracle BPM, WSDL and XSD.  • Use IBM MQ Series to send information from mainframe to web and back to mainframe.  • Responsible SAS reports, analysis using SAS macros in UNIX operating system.  • Used Ruby on Rails for development with backbone.js.  • Design & creation of multiple sites using: WordPress, HTML, PHP, XML, CSS, Javascript.  • Developed multiple web applications using Drupal, Zend Framework.  • Design and implement existing and new website features using ASP.Net.    Environment: Node.js, Python, Angular.js, DB2, Netbeans, Jboss, Visual Source Safe, Selenium, Mercurial, Water Fall Model, UML, JSP , Servlet, Java, Swing, WebSphere, ANT, XML, EMC Documentum, Jira, Swing, cognos, Ilog, Oracle ADF, Oracle BPM, IBMMq Series, Apachi Tomcat, Linux, Unix, Ruby Wordpress,.Net , ASP, C++, Mainframe, COBOL , PL/I , JCL, SQL , SAS VB , ASP Software Developer Metlife - Cleveland, OH March 2009 to August 2010 Participated in all the stages of SDLC from requirements gathering to deployment of software.  ? Developed various UI (User Interface) components using Struts (MVC), JSP, and HTML, JavaScript, Ajax.  ? Involved in writing packages, stored procedures to retrieve/modify data in database.  ? Used MVC architecture, Business Delegate, Session facade, Data Access Object, Value Object and Singleton patterns  Environment: JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, Spring and Hibernate frameworks, MVC design pattern, Software Developer at Symphony Houston, TX March 2008 to February 2009 Worked on GUI internationalization using JSP and Core Java  ? Created architecture deliverables using JavaScript that describes the solution using enterprise templates.  ? Understanding the Domain Knowledge for the Product, Requirements and Design Documents    Environment: JavaScript, Java, JSP, JUnit, Mercurial, Eclipse, .Net, JIRA, JDBC, Struts, Hibernate, Visual Source Web Developer PNC - Chicago, IL March 2007 to February 2008 Developed new system Automated Management System with Java and JSF.  ? Common Error message routines throughout the framework.  ? Automated XML downloads from distributed sites.  Environment: JavaScript, Struts, JSF, Java, Spring, Hibernate Education Master's Skills Java (9 years), JavaScript (10+ years), Struts (10+ years), UI (9 years), User Interface (9 years), Python (7 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    • UI Web Technologies: Angular.js, React. js, JavaScript, Node.js, Python,  Backbone.js, Ext.js  • Languages: Python, Shell Script, Perl, Java    • Databases: Oracle, DB2, My SQL  • App Servers: WebLogic, JBoss, Tomcat  • API & Framework: Log4J, Spring, Struts, IBatis, Hibernate  • Operating System: UNIX, Linux, Windows  • Version Control: Clear Case, CVS, VSS, SVN, TFS (Team  Foundation Server)  • Scripting: Ant, Maven, Java Scripts, Shell  • IDE: Eclipse, IntelliJ, JBuilder, Rational Rose,  ER Studio