Software Developer, US based startup Software <span class="hl">Developer</span>, US based startup Zaslavl Principal software developer and senior software development team manager with over than 12 years of hi-tech industry experience. Passionate about learning, test driven development and quality improvement. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Software Developer, US based startup January 2014 to Present contract job, remote  Responsible for design of a mobile application backend and development of a database schema for MongoDB. Created REST API service to access backend functions. Used Flask to implement REST API. Archived reliable codebase support and minimized amount of bugs through use of unit tests for all backend API functions. Implemented use of Ngnix on server side for better system scalability. Created system administrator's interface using web UI with Flask and JavaScript to consume REST API services. Built a Spark script to fetch real-time information about system requests and added displayed requests statistics in administrator interface using D3D.js. Developed a set of acceptance tests to validate CI main chains of execution and verify quality of recent backend-side commits. That enabled company to ensure that backend of the system is stable after new code deployments and prevented broken releases. Managed development of the Android mobile client system that used developed backend REST API. Senior Python Developer Mobsafety March 2013 to September 2013 contract job, remote  Responsible for Mobile Device Management solution for iOS and Android devices. Managed a team of four developers working on backend part of the project that runs as WSGI handler using Flask and MongoDB. Used agile scrum methodology, two weeks iteration cycle and Jira to organize development workflow. Unit tests were used to ensure system stability. Bamboo server was used as continuous integration platform. Backend services were deployed in Amazon cloud using Juju deployment tool. Python Developer LatamIQ July 2012 to February 2013 contract job, remote  Company service was to grab and analyze economic indexes. My responsibility was to build set of services at backend on MySQL that will help to analyze, predict flows of economical indexes using several metrics. Django Python Developer Keeyword.com September 2011 to June 2012 contract job, remote  The company is building tools for keyword research. My task was to optimize PostgreSQL database schema to store at least 500k of keywords in one project and provide fast access to them. C Developer, Visionica Python/C March 2008 to June 2011 contract job, remote  Developed server side components for IP cameras recording system using MySQL database, backend run on Ubuntu. I took part in development of client side application for this system written in QT. C/ Python/C++/Game Mods Developer Python/C May 2007 to March 2008 contract job, remote  Developed several mods to control game flow for Q4, HL family, HL2 family, COD 1, COD2, UT2004,  Linux Kernel Module on C and user mode management application on Python to protect server side components. C++ Developer Check Point Belrus January 2005 to August 2007 The project was connected with Linux Kernel module development and debugging in UML environment with crash dump analysis. Intetics Company September 2003 to December 2004 2003.09 - 2004.12  Developed the system level security application for Win32 OS using MSVC 6.0. My tasks included driver management application plug-in, user interface and communication mechanism between LSP provider and driver. Developer Sacrament Company July 2002 to September 2003 The company developed Text-to-Speech(TTS) engine for Russian and English language. I worked on the intonation block of the acoustic module and ported it from Win32 to WinCE. Education MS in Electronics Belarusian State University of Informatics and Radio 1998 to 2003 Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/dmoroz Additional Information Technical Skills  Languages: Python, C++, Java, JavaScript  Database Platforms: MongoDB, MySQL, PostgreSQL  Development Tools: PyCharm, Emacs, AndroidStudio, Git, CVS, Celery, D3D.js, Bamboo, Jira, Asana, Apache, Ngnix, Spark, MSVC++ 6.0, QT, Django, Flask, RabbitMQ  Methodologies: Test Driven Development, Scrum, XP  OS: Linux(Ubuntu), Android, Windows