Application Development Specialist / Python Application Development Specialist / <span class="hl">Python</span> Application Development Specialist / Python - Bank of America Charlotte, NC • 10+ Years of IT industry experience in Software Application Development, Design, coding & testing.  • Encompassing a wide range of skill set and industry verticals. Insurance & Finance are the major domains. Financial Technology experience in Derivatives/market products & P&C in insurance domain.  • Extensive experience in multiple technologies Python, Numpy, Pandas, XML, MVS, DB2, IDMS, JCL and many other Legacy/Distributed tools.  • Completed Mongo DB for developers' certification course. Familiar with pymongo module and can develop applications in Python & Mongo DB.  • Good at Client facing technical roles. Outsourced to TIAA-CREF, Denver, USA as a consultant for 7 months in 2010. Have been in USA for past 28 Months with a valid H1B work VISA. Both the roles demand fast paced development along with explaining, discussing & elucidating technical intricacies of the project.  • Proficient in release planning, co-coordinating onshore - offshore teams and work flow process in both onsite and offshore.  • Extensive experience in various SDLC methodologies such as Agile & Waterfall models.  • Strong debugging and troubleshooting skills  • Well focused and achievement oriented person with excellent people management skills and an ability to manage change with ease.  • Ability to prioritize responsibilities.  • Have done a AWS, Python POC project along with interns for 20 days.  • Ability to grasp new technologies and to correctly apply new tools to build applications. Have been continuously noted for quick turnaround time when starting with new application or Technology.  • Quick learner with excellent analytical and communication skills  • PMI certified Project Management Professional (PMP) - License 1942269  • Red Hat Certified Engineer (RHCE).  • 3 years of project management experience handling both delivery & team  • Have exposure to Microsoft Project plan to do project planning, tracking & closing the activities and efforts. Work Experience Application Development Specialist / Python Bank of America - Charlotte, NC June 2017 to Present Bank of America is one of the leading provider of banking, financial services to clients all over the world. The bank is one among the largest banks with respect to assets/customer base. The bank does operations in wholesale, Retail, lending & Loans, Mortgages, stock markets, derivatives and many more. The Python development role primarily focuses on building the various calculators for their traded products. Not only the real time markets data, but the forecast details of the products are also arrived at using python scripts. The application is large enough that it consumes real time data and it interacts with other areas of the market like securities, wholesale products which are also in python.    • Detailed analysis & understanding of the user stories. The business requirements are charted out in user stories that are discussed & understood from BA's as part of sprint kick off. These requirements bring about the implementation of financial instrument valuation & modeling the market risks. Numerous risk exposure calculations like CEM, REPO, SACCR, FAILS are carried out via these enhancements.  • Perform impact analysis, high level design facilitating BA's to arrive at requirements for other related application areas.  • Code/develop business logic as per the client coding guidelines. Have used IDLE, Pycharm & Shell environments for the development purposes.  • Develop using the OO or functional programming paradigms. Normal classes & functions are extensively used.  • Develop unit testing module for each and every module created using the unitTesting framework of python. Make sure that the coverage is client recommended 80%.  • Familiar with the 'thread' module of Python. Have used multi threading & queues in functions when the data is in large and processing time is in scarce.  • Build Functional API's for the process improvement, to avoid abends, to meet recommendations from test & QA teams and to make ease of our daily activities.  • Perform code reviews & test coverage reviews.  • Release management, Production support & proper documentation of migration at each level & versioning.  • Extended my contribution to a different team that involves application development with Numpy/pandas    Environment: Python, Numpy, Pandas, Windows, Linux, CSV files, Netezza DB, Hugs/Bobs monitor, Quartz framework. Project Lead / Python MetLife - Greenville, SC February 2015 to April 2017 SSN Alternate ID Customer Conversion project will address all Mid-Large and National Account Customer's requests to not use Social Security Number (SSN) for servicing their employees. The goal of the Alt ID project is to position MetLife to address a real and growing market need to support our customer's Security Policies. It will allow MetLife to service employees without always requiring the use of a Social Security Number on many Institutional products. My role involves developing various processes in Python that has been in Legacy system all years. The application interacts with 8 other applications and 7 product teams that my primary responsibility is to ensure a smooth transition to Alt ID in all these areas. Served as one point contact for migration to Python and answered SME questions.    • 2 years of experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Management & implementation of standalone Python projects.  • Extensively developed many modules of the Billing Application in Python. Calculating monthly premiums, processing remits are all migrated to Python.  • Proficient with myPQI module. This is a package to send/receive messages through pipes and it works similar to RabbitMQ.  • Completely Developed a Payload calculator project using Python to automatically determine the load. I was involved from initial understanding of business requirements until roll out.  • The commonality of the data between the employee & the dependents allowed the use of OO concepts.  • All the business reports were generated in Python scripts and deployed in PROD (both planned &Adhoc).  • Math, Collections, Sys, Requests are some of the modules used extensively.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse the XML documents and save them in the shares. The parsed data is used to analyze the customer data & its repeatability.  • Good Understanding & Practice on SAX parsing. Have exposure to DOM parsing & familiar with several DOM methods.  • Wrote numerous Python scripts to extract the data from text, Excel, csv files as part of Integration Project team activities.  • Written Automation tools in Python to ease out daily application activities. The development time of few standard business reports were cut down when designed with Python  • Walkthrough Operations team for the Python scripts to be executed in PROD. The order of execution & time are clearly communicated as a cross-training.  • Main liaison between the different product teams and our team. The data representations in their respective application when changed to python are enumerated, explained aiding the design of the system.    Environment: Python, Pycharm, Windows, XML, WebSphere MQ, Scripting, text Team Lead Cognizant Technology Solutions - Coimbatore, Tamil Nadu March 2011 to February 2015 MetLife.  MetLife the largest insurance provider in US has its clients billed out of CBS. The application is responsible for third party interface & maintenance of the contracts, billing, remittance and accounting. It's such an automated and flexible system that the IT team can play around it. It has an online interface too (PB screens), that is fed with the data by Remote stored procedures. There are numerous& complex logics in calculating the bill, remit amounts that I mastered the core logic of the application. The primary responsibility is to add a separate region for the most secure US client and process enrollment, billing with specific rules as demanded by the MetLife client. This is such a huge project that the development effort took 3 complete years and as much as 1200 programs were modified and 500 programs were created from scratch. I have led the entire development effort & delivery management.    • Team Lead for a team size of 22. Successfully delivered 8 releases in 2 years with high quality & customer satisfaction.  • Involved in all phases of a project - Design, Code & Test  • Determine the PROD Job scheduling activities. The precedence, dependence, time limit & the trigger are designed and coded in Scheduler.  • Complete ownership of the projects handled. Have been a one stop shop for all the requirement, design queries, application questions, logic corrections & test scenarios to be tested.  • Lead reviewer - Performs Design review, Code review, Test results review. Have received appreciation from the ISO auditor for the meaningful reviews given and the impacts it created.  • Co-ordinate changes & configuration. Make sure that correct components reach the production environment and follow a process to track those changes.  • Allocate work to team - Manage day to day progress  • Defect prevention coordinator -Root cause analysis, determine corrective, preventive actions with the team. Monitor defect counts and report  • Support business with their questions during acceptance testing, E2E testing, functional testing  • Aid BA's & business in developing business case, use case, FRD and TDD with an expert knowledge on the application  • Complete ownership of knowledge transfer/building knowledge repository and assisting new resources  • Master of Lessons learnt - A weekly collaboration with team to share the learnings of the preceding week.    Environment: zOS, COBOL, DB2, JCL, RSP, WebSphere MQ, Power Builder, Windows, QC Developer NTT Data - IN November 2007 to March 2011 Hanover Insurance.  Hanover Insurance - Hanover Insurance Group formally Allmerica Financials is the leading financial company in US. The Hanover Insurance is a holding company for a diversified group of insurance companies comprised of stable, experienced, regional businesses committed to the Property & Casualty insurance markets. The role involves mainly adding a new Line of business to the application system. Added to the application programming, many new forms and documents were designed that were sent to the insureds for various communication requirements. These forms and documents were uploaded to the client servers through docucorp.  • Understanding the requirements and preparation of Design Documents  • Interacting with the onsite for effective execution of the Applications  • Perform extensive coding - COBOL, JCL, DB2 programs, IDMS programs.  • Designing/Coding 'Remote Stored Procedures'  • Prepare test plans and test data and engage in preparing the testing environment  • Perform regression testing.  • Perform test data setup in 2 different regions to do parallel testing.  • Prepare all documentation and service requests for implementation  • Perform maintenance code changes and user requests  • Loading both fixed and Variable forms onto Mainframe server.  • Preparing the possible test cases and test results.  • Implementation of the written code and job through packages.  • Debugging the defects logged in the integration stage.  • Preparing Peer Review and Code implementation Forms.  • Solving all low, medium cases logged by the client and user.    Environment: zOS, COBOL, DB2, JCL, RSP, IDMS, Windows, Service now. Education B.E in Electronics and Communication Engineer Anna University - Chennai, Tamil Nadu May 2007 Skills COBOL (7 years), DB2 (7 years), IDMS (3 years), PYTHON (3 years), TRAINING (2 years) Additional Information Technical Skills    Operating System: Windows, zOS, Basics of Linux  Software Methodologies: Agile, Waterfall  Language: Python, COBOL  Database: Mongo DB, DB2 (RDBMS), IDMS (Network DB)  Database Tools: Putty, Toad Data point  Dev Tools: IDLE, Pycharm, File Manager, IBM debugger, Expeditor, File AID  Version Tools: Version One, GIT, Endeavor, Changemen    ADDITIONAL SKILLS  • Mongo DB for developers training from Mongo DB university. Completed few projects as part of the course curriculum.  • LOMA certified - Completed LOMA 280, LOMA 290. The certification helps to assist BA's and explain technical team the requirements written in insurance context. Secured above 97% in both these exams.  • Familiar managing projects with Microsoft Project Management professional  • Attended one day programs on Lean delivery model.  • Attended numerous trainings on Data Science& Python from Cognizant Academy