Developer <span class="hl">Developer</span> Developer - Ryzlink Corp Foster City, CA Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Developer Ryzlink Corp 2017 to Present Developed a containerized distributed testing system for cloud storage system.  ? Used light-weight Docker to minimize the overhead of forking multiple processes and fully utilize the underlying machine.  ? Scaled out applications on top of Swarm/Kubernetes.  ? Developed microserice to send various on-demand requests to test OpenStack cloud services.  ? Verified the validity of the whole project using Bottle as a prototype framework.  ? Designed full-fledged RestFul APIs on top of Django.  ? Developed responsive frontend using Angularjs.  ? Implement a fake cloud service for testing using Nodejs.  ? Increased the output by tens using Asynchronous framework Tornado.  ? Increase flexibility and responsiveness by making use of MessageQueue(Celery/RabbitMQ) system.  ? Designed SQL Schema wrapped by sqlalchemy on top of PostgresSQL.  ? Collected, Stored, Indexed, and analyzed report data on top of NoSQL solr.  ? Analyzed, indexed, and visualized data using Logstash, ElasticSearch, and Kibana(Elk stack).  ? Integrated Open-source tool Jmeter to generate configurable traffic.  ? Enable 100% code coverage and generate code report.  ? Integrate CI/CD using Jenkins.  ? Developed test cases in Django framework and Selenium.  ? Configured and load-balanced web server using Nginx.  ? Synchronized code, reviewed peer code, and resolved conflicts l using Git.  ? Automated test and deployment using Vagrant and Shell scripting.  ? Documented how-to wiki and provided customer supports. Python Developer/Front Proximity Service 2016 to 2017 Developed a proximity service system, applying SSID-based or Bluetooth-based position algorithms, to provide location-based, time-based, and user-based policies with customizable contents from texts to videos.  ? Developed a RestFul location service in Java.  ? Coded in Model, View, Control pattern on top of Flask framework.  ? Enable bi-directional communication on top of Web Socket.  ? No-blocking socket programming to minimize the latency.  ? Integrated a third-party CMX location APIs into proximity service.  ? Developed Graphical User Interface using HTML, JQuery, Ajax, CSS2/CSS3 and a myriad of javascript libraries.  ? Designed Schema using MySQL.  ? Participated and planned using Agile methodology.  ? Built client Android application to received text/video notification.  ? In charge of version management using Git. Software Engineer Cisco System 2013 to 2015 Centralized Wifi Client management  ? Implemented centralized WLAN user management, utilizing protocols between Mobility Controller and Mobility Agent, easing the management of clients.  ? Gathered requirements from technical leaders, product managers and planned, managed users stories in each sprint.  ? Used Wireshark and Fiddler debugging proxy to debug communication issues between different entities.  ? Implemented communication protocols on top of TCP/IP.  ? Use shell to automate code refactoring, unit testing, submission and etc.  ? Presented views to different users based on their privileges in Bootstrap.  ? Modeled different data models in Python for different user groups.  ? Used Jira to track bug and reported process.    Facebook-based Web Authentication  ? Enhanced Facebook account based authentication in wireless controller, enabling pushing customized ads to customers associated with specific SSIDs.  ? Designed control flow based http redirection to seamlessly authenticate wifi clients.  ? Configured Access control list to distinguish targeted clients from malicious clients.  ? Optimized, and refactor legacy code to enhance the user experience.  ? Set up test bed for development, unit test, feather test and presentation.  ? Collaborate and coordinate the work of different teams across different countries.  ? Managed code using SVN and ClearCase.  ? Hands-on Cisco switch, controller, and access point connection and configuration.  ? Used Tsim to simulate traffic and test components. Engineer Sinoma International 2003 to 2010 Design department's website using PHP and CodeIgniter framework.  ? Gathered requirements across different departments, and coordinated between different teams.  ? Designed proprietary automation software to read input from documents, generate CAD graphes, calculate results, and give suggestions.  ? Integrate office tools and AutoCAD into automation software tool chains.  ? Managed code version control using CVS.  ? Installed and configured company's intranet to modernizing the workflow.  ? Programmed industrial automation system to monitor and control industrial plant systems.  ? Designed electrical subsystem to power industrial plants.  ? Integrated different automation software/products from different companies, like GE, ABB, or Siemens to provide a whole solution. Education Master of Science in EE in EE University of Southern California - Los Angeles, CA 2013 Bachelor of Engineering in EE in Engineering Zhejiang University 2003 Skills Angularjs. (1 year), Django. (1 year), NoSQL (1 year), Python (5 years), SQL (1 year) Additional Information SKILLS  Languages Python, Java, Javascript, C  Tools Linux, vim, shell, Docker, Kubernetes, git, Nodejs, Angularjs, JQuery, Flask, Bottle, Django, SQL, NoSQL, JMeter