Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - Liberty Mutual Insurance Boston, MA ? Over 6+ years of experience in developing web-based applications, software development and design with analytical programming using Python, Django, C++.  ? Expert knowledge of Object Oriented Design and Programming concepts.  ? Experience in object oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, C++.  ? Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, C++, XML, HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery.  ? Good experience in libraries Scrapy, URL lib, Robot framework, Beautiful Soup, Numpy, SciPy, matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas, network, urllib2, MySQL for database connectivity and IDEs - Sublime Text, Spyder, Pycharm, Eclipse, Visual Studio, IDLE.  ? Has good knowledge on NoSQL databases.  ? Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  ? Good understanding of Object Oriented Analysis and Design and UML notations and experience in using design tools like MS-Visio for creating class and sequence diagrams.  ? Experience in XML APIs such as JAXP (SAX, DOM), JAXB for data binding and experience in designing the XSD schema generation  ? Used RDBMS databases systems like Oracle, SQL Server, MS Access and My SQL.  ? Used tools like Toad, PLSQL Developer and Squirrel for performing database operations.  ? Financial Certification for Technology and Operations Professionals (FCTOP)  ? Good domain knowledge of Telecom, Cloud Computing and Realization, Finance (corporations), Shipping & Logistics and CRM.  ? Worked on Report generation module using tool like iReports.  ? Have good experience of all testing phases such as Unit testing, Integration testing and System testing. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Python Developer Liberty Mutual Insurance - Boston, MA July 2013 to Present Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Involved in Developing Restful services using Python Django framework.  ? Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework with GIT.  ? Expertise in developing web-based open stack applications using Python and Django for large dataset analysis.  ? Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  ? Developed Simple to complex Map/reduce streaming jobs using Python language that are implemented using Hive and Pig.  ? Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  ? Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML, BIG DATA to automate some of the menial tasks.  ? Involved in the development of presentation layer and GUI framework using EXTJS and HTML. Client Side validations were done using JavaScript.  ? Developed complex Web based UI using Struts, Ajax and Java Script.  ? Implemented Hibernate for the ORM layer in transacting with Oracle database  ? Worked on Data Services implementation for the CRUD services.  ? Involved in the development of SQL, PL/SQL Packages, Stored Procedures  ? Implemented the Connectivity to the Data Base Server Using JDBC.  ? Implement web service components using Apache CXF framework  ? Good exposure to RESTful and SOAP based web services  ? Created webservices using WTP tool plugin to the eclipse IDE which is deployed as a separate application using Maven scripts.  ? Maintained the business standards and the requirements in EJB and deployed them on to WebLogic Application Server.  ? Attended Rational training for ClearCase administration.  ? Involved in preparing the test cases using JUnit test case and in the testing phase  ? Utilized Agile Methodology/Scrum (SDLC) to managed projects and team.  ? Optimized UML design using patterns like DAO, Factory, Service Locator and Business Delegate  ? Developed user interface using JSP, AJAX, JSP Tag libraries and Struts Tag Libraries to simplify the complexities of the application.  ? Involved in user interface development using JSTL.  ? Involved in the development of business module applications using J2EE technologies like Servlets, JSP and JDBC.  ? Created Maven build file to build the application and deployed on WebSphere Application Server.  ? Developed framework using Java, BIRT Runtime, iText, MySQL and web server technologies.  ? Participated in developing web pages using JSP, JavaScript and Google Web Toolkit, DWR (Ajax Framework) for better user interface experience.  ? Configured glassfish server; Design shipping rate template upload UI using Adobe Flex and Developed Jasper report.  ? Involved in developing and modifying the credit card, consumer loan business rules in ILog JRules  ? Developed a web 2.0 control console using GWT to manage data matching for data staging  ? Design, develop and test of SOA services using SOA / Web Service / Oracle Fusion Middleware.    Environment: Python, Django, Spring , Hibernate, Struts, JQuery , AJAX, Java Script, Oracle, CRUD, PL/SQL, JDBC, Apache CXF, Eclipse, ClearCase , JUnit , UML ,JSP, JSTL, Servlets, Maven, iText, ,Google Web Toolkit, Jasper report., iILog, web 2.0, SOA Sr. Python Developer Dell Computer Corporation - New York, NY January 2012 to June 2013 Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  ? Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  ? Designed and developed datacenter management system using MySQL.  ? Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  ? Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  ? Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  ? Generated property list for every application dynamically using python.  ? Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code  ? Developed GUI screens for XTT & LD application using JSP, HTML and CSS.  ? Developed Presentation layer components comprising of JSP, AJAX, Struts Action, Struts Form Beans and AJAX tag libraries.  ? Involved in integration of Jsp pages and UI design using HTML5  ? Java and JSP developer for J2EE web application on WAS, DB2 and AIX.  ? Written unit test scripts to test entities with CRUD operations, analyze heap size and memory leaks with Jprofiler.  ? Involved in writing and executing PL/SQL stored procedures and functions and triggers for Oracle to create a Database Management System.  ? Used JDBC to connect to the information model tier.  ? Involved in the deployment of Web-Service End-Points using Apache CXF  ? Used Eclipse IDE for designing, coding and developing applications  ? Implemented improvements to the WebSphere Commerce Organization Console and the Administration Console to display, and allow for update, new member information.  ? Trained hands-on in MySQL, Linux, PuTTY, WinSCP, Subversion, and Drupal.  ? Involved in JUnit Testing of various modules by generating the Test Cases.  ? Introduced proven techniques and methodologies to drive product development quality, including Object-Oriented design, Design Patterns, Scrum and Agile development, Test-driven Development (TDD), and Continuous Integration.  ? Participated in converting the business requirements to software specifications using Rational UML  ? Developed the different components of application such as JSPs, Servlets, EJB's using Web sphere Studio Application Developer and used CVS for version control.  ? Developed the User Interfaces using Struts, JSP, JSTL, HTML and Ajax, JavaScript  ? Designed and developed the web-tier using Html, JSP's, Servlets, Struts and Tiles framework.  ? Used Maven script for building and deploying the application.  ? Involved in writing Spring Configuration XML, file that contains declarations and business classes are wired-up to the frontend managed beans using Spring IOC pattern.  ? Integrated with iText and Jakarta POI to generate Test results in PDF and XLS format  ? Design, implementation, and development of Oracle ECM workflows to meet the requirements of the business user.  ? Designed and implemented interface elements using Google Web Toolkit.  ? Contributed to organization of testing and quality improvement process (JIRA, Confluence).  ? Oracle Database access was implemented through Hibernate framework. Also used Jasper reports and Jfree charts to generate various statistical reports.  ? Worked on designing and creating business rules using IBM ILOG Rules Engine.  ? Designed various design Workflow Modules using BPM (Business Process Modeler) to implement Business Logic and Business rules using Ilog, Jrules.  ? Designed and currently developing Tier Web 2.0 based price management system using GWT, Grails and MySql. Used and using Talend Open Studio to load data into the new system from the legacy data formats.  ? Implemented multi-site Enterprise SOA using Oracle SOA Suite for Fortune 100 Company.  ? EJB components are deployed on the Web Logic Integration with MQSeries using JMS. The database was Oracle.  ? Build code using IDE IntelliJ and deploy it using Apache Tomcat.  ? Moved Application from Solaris to Linux RedHat for system benchmark  ? Extensive Development using Zend Framework by PHP in a LAMP environment.    Environment: Spring , Python, Django, Hibernate, Struts , JSF, DOJO, ExtJS , Java Script, CSS, AJAX , HTML5 , DB2, CRUD, PL/SQL, JDBC, Apache CXF, SOAP , Web Services , XML, Eclipse, WebSphere, Subversion , Scrum , UML, JSP, JSTL, Maven, XML.,iText ,Oracle ECM ,Google Web Toolkit (GWT) , JIRA, Jasper Reports, ILOG, JRules, Web 2.0 , SOA, JMS. Linux, Apache Tomcat, PHP. Senior Web Developer Mercedes Benz Credit Corporation - Reston, VA January 2010 to December 2011 Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Used the light weight container of the Spring Frame work to provide architectural flexibility for inversion of controller (IOC).  ? Designed the page flow using struts, server side components, and ibatis for DAO layer.  ? Coded Java backend, JSP, Struts, JavaScript, Business classes  ? Developed Add, Edit and profile view web pages for the monitor module using JSP, JSF HTML, JSF CORE tags library.  ? Development of java interfaces for different function calls which convert the webservice calls into EJB calls to the legacy system  ? Created of interface to manage user menu and Bulk update of Attributes using JS, EXTJS and JQUERY  ? Worked on the MySQL migration project .To make the system completely independent of the database being used. Used Spring IBatis to implement this.  ? Used TOAD for all database query testing and optimizations  ? Developed Java and EJB in Mainframe DB2 environment.  ? Design and Developed using WebService using Apache Axis 2  ? Designed and developed required WSDL and XSD for the services.  ? Followed an Agile, Software Development methodology. Used NetBeans IDE  ? Developed ANT scripts to build and deploy the application in the JBOSS Application Server. Java Developer SBC Communications - Bethesda, MD August 2008 to December 2009 Environment: Spring, Struts, JSF , EJB, jQuery , MySQL, Toad, MySQL Server, DB2, Apache Axis , WSDL,Netbeans , JBOSS, CVS , water fall model, UML , JSPs, Servlets, XML, EMC Documentum , JIRA, Swing , cognos , ILOG ,Oracle ADF, Oracle BPM ,IBM MQ, Linux, Apache Tomcat , Ruby, Wordpress , Drupal ,ASP.NET C, C++ Mainframe, COBOL,PL/I, SAS, VB, ASP    SBC Communications, Bethesda, MD  Java Developer  Aug-08 to Dec-09    Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Understanding the Domain Knowledge for the Product, Requirements and Design Documents gathering.  ? Preparing the Design Documents and analyzing the functional specifications.  ? Involved in the table design.  ? Worked on the Spring framework like Spring IOC and Spring DAO.  ? Developed ANT scripts to build and deploy the application in the JBOSS Application Server.  ? Was involved in the Infinity Process Platform (IPP) workflow design for the 2 level approvals of reports to be generated.  ? Used Ibatis to populate the data from the Database.  ? Used Javascript and jQuery for validating the input given to the user interface.  ? EJB components are deployed on the Web Logic  ? Developed the application using Spring MVC.  ? Designed and Developed Servlets and JSP pages for authentication  ? Responsible for developing GUI / user interfaces using JSP, CSS & DHTML.  ? Used JQuery to make the frontend components interact with the Javascript functions to add dynamism to the web pages at the client side.  ? Designed and implemented database structure in MySQL Server.  ? Designed Interactive GUIs using Java Applets and Swing.  ? Built CVS and XML file loaders and splitters for financial data.  ? Developed various UI (User Interface) components using Struts (MVC), JSP, and HTML.  ? Responsible for configuring JBOSS Application Server administration activities which involved creating domains, Configuring the domain for weblogic clustering, SSL, Database Connection configurations, performance monitoring, etc.  ? Involved in creating unit testing of various layers using junit and created automated test scripts for integration testing using Selenium.  ? Involved in debugging the product using Eclipse 3.6 and JIRA Bug Tracking.  ? Used CVS for version controlling and JUnit for unit testing.  ? Prepared statements are used for communication with MySql database  ? Created files & deployed on Tomcat using ANT deployment tool.  ? Involved in the integration of EJBs running on Weblogic Server with COM objects running on IIS.  ? Extensively used Core Spring Framework for Dependency Injections of components.  ? Implemented Spring IOC for server side Java components.  ? Implemented Spring AOP for admin services.  ? Wrote numerous session and message driven Netbeans for operation on JBoss and WebLogic  ? Used JQuery library and implemented Ajax features.  ? Working Closely with EMC Documentum to implement Engineering Design Storage Repository and Project Document Management.  ? Worked with MySQL for MySQL, SQLYog and Workbench.  ? JSP interfaces were developed. Custom tags were used.  ? Maintenance of data in different Oracle Databases and environments using TOAD.  ? Developed Servlets and Worked extensively on Sql.  ? Performed Java web application development using J2EE and Netbeans.  ? Developed the Servlets for processing the data on the server.  ? Expertise in employing Water Fall Model and best practices for software development    Environment: Java, Struts, JSF, Spring, Hibernate, Common Structure Architecture of Sungard, JIRA, Squirrel, PL SQL, SVN, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, iBatis, EJB, JBoss, JQuery, JSP, Servlet, MySQL, TOAD, Netbeans, Selenium, ANT, EMC Documentum, JIRA, SWING, CVS, Waterfall Model. J2EE Developer IBM June 2006 to July 2008 Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Understanding the Domain Knowledge for the Product, Requirements and Design Documents  ? Wrote multithreaded programs to measure system performance  ? Worked on GUI internationalization using JSP and Core Java  ? Used Mercurial to keep track of versioning of the source code  ? Worked on bug fixing  ? Used JDBC APIs for database connectivity and data retrieval.  ? Developing HardwareStoreMarketer.com site using ASP.Net.  ? Strong Database programming using .NET, ADO with MS SQL Server 2000, MS Access and Oracle backend. Extensively used Stored Procedures, Functions and Triggers in Microsoft SQL Server.  ? Worked on various client websites that used Struts 2 framework, Hibernate and OGNL  ? Wrote test cases using JUnit testing framework and configured applications on Weblogic Server  ? Involved in debugging the product using Eclipse 3.6 and JIRA Bug Tracking.  ? Involved in writing stored procedures, view, user-defined functions and triggers in SQL Server database for Reports module.  ? Simulation was developed using C++.  ? Implemented real-time patient prescription history verification system using C, Oracle PL/SQL on VMS platform.  ? Used Visual Source Safe for source control.  ? Manipulated data and performed data preparation using TSO, ISPF and SPF system utilities.  ? Developed and implemented Legacy system programs by using COBOL, DB2, CICS, JCL, JAVA and VSAM.  ? Wrote stored procedures in Oracle PL/SQL for data entry and retrieval.  ? Extracted and modified data from VSAM files for PDF reports.  ? Automate nightly batch processing and job alerts using REXX.  ? Responsible for migrating Websphere server from v6.1 to v8.0 and migrating IBM CICS Transaction.  ? J2EE to communicate legacy COBOL based mainframe implementations.  ? Designed and developed Message Flows and Message Sets and other service component to expose Mainframe applications to enterprise J2EE applications.  ? Configuring and analyzing JCL to execute mainframe batch.  ? Actively involved in contributing to RFP and POC activities in IMS.  ? Used standard data access technologies like JDBC and ORM tool like Hibernate  ? Designed, implemented new website features and provided support, maintenance    Environment: Core Java, JSP, JUnit, Mercurial, Eclipse, .Net, JIRA, JDBC, Struts 2, Hibernate, Visual Source Safe, Weblogic, Oracle 11g, OGNL, C, C++, Linux, MS SQL Server, COBOL, FileAid, REXX, ISPF, Mainframe, CICS, IMS, VSAM, JCL. Education design Texas State board of Pharmacy