PYTHON/GO DEVELOPER <span class="hl">PYTHON</span>/GO <span class="hl">DEVELOPER</span> PYTHON/GO DEVELOPER Fort Lauderdale, FL Work Experience PYTHON/GO DEVELOPER ADV SOLUTIONS 2010 to 2018 Python, Django, GO and Cloud development engineer working on multiple CI/CD, ML and Microservice projects:    Docker & Kubernetes Conversion using GO  Container setup for Python App running with Postgres, ReactJS and Django. Improve back-end queries and enhance REST API options.  • Performance testing in AWS of Container Structure  • Enhance UI/UX process flow to reduce redundant user key strokes  • Set up of Kubernetes for Container Management  • Javascript/ Front end - React JS    Field Data Capture application GO and Python  Developed application to manage field data capture using Phonegap and React JS, JQuery. Back-end framework used was Django and Postgres.  • Local mobile device storage of images and documents  • Automatic sync with Python/React JS portal for data synchronization  • Python portal to process back-end user management and client engagement.  • Javascript/front end - Angular JS    Kafka Brokers and Consumer Profiles - Kafka Scaling  Define and Testing multiple Kafka Brokers and Kafka consumers for a microservice architecture design for a global organization. Deployed in Amazon AWS using Ansible.  • Enhanced daily message processing capacity and response time  • Allow for connection to processing message of multiple iOT data sources and mobile apps    ML on Distribution Optimization - PyBrain and GO  Artifical Intelligence application to analyze inventory data across multiple distribution centers and recommend best methods for allocation of products and resources.  • AI scenarios using multiple data sets from over 5 years of history  • Developed input funnel into ML engine  • Wrote technical manual on setting up system and test cases  • Javascript Front-end: Angular JS    Amazon/AWS Cloud System Analysis using React JS  Python app which analyzed CI server activity and response times, code deployment and environment migrations done in Amazon AWS.  Developed Full UI-UX and front-end dashboard using React JS.  • Quick access to Amazon API  • Rendered Dashboard which provided important milestone Metrics  • Reduced the release cycle overhead by half  • Javascript front-end: React JS    ML Learning on Student Study Habits - PyBrain and GO  Application using PyBrain Neural framework to understand study habits for students and learn of ways to improve student retention and best ways to increase engagement  • Managed Back-End Data integration to PyBrain  • Wrote front-end JS application to interact with student and teachers  • Created data points for graphing application using ML results  • Javascript Front-end: JQuery, React JS    Multi-Site Financial System  Interview, Process Redesign and Re-engineering for a distributed financial capture and transactional system written in Django. Used Angular JS as front-end technology, Django as back end.  • Eliminated Manual data double entry and duplication  • Reduced licensing costs for current ERP and database  • Designed a platform that could be managed totally online  • Javascript Front-end: React JS    Ad Campaign Analysis Portal  DJango portal used to maintain history of keyword usage and Ad results in multiple PPC campaigns. Analysis of similar & competitor ads against benchmarks. React JS as front-end UI-IX, Flask as back-end framework.  • Increased PPC response rate by 30%  • Increased conversion by 20%  • Reduce time to analyze campaigns  • Javascript Front-end: JQuery    Real Estate Folio Search Web portal w/mongo DB  Developed Folio search portal using Python, Django, MongoDB and Elastic search. Locate information about properties and valuation in public records. Used Angular and JQuery as the front end technology.  • Quick turnaround of search result of images and text  • Created RestFul API feed from public data to application  • Removed redundancy in data for faster query downloads  • Allowed for Multiple Views of the data in grid, block, line formats  • Javascript Front-end: Angular JS, CoffeeScript    Django revenue Matrix Dashboard System  Wrote process spec for an on-demand revenue analysis dashboard for management team. Dashboard worked as a web link and mobile application. Worked with IT team to create a large SQL back end of summary revenue tables:  • Eliminated having to run extensive /long reports  • Provided data availability from anywhere  • Provided immediate decision tools for management    Training Video Repository  Dynamic Django portal for a large multinational with over 100,000 employees. The system was designed for managers and users to create, manage, edit and share video content across mobile and web platforms. Content included in-house created videos and external sources.  • Increased education participation  • Enhanced search process by over 50% for locating meaningful material  • Replaced legacy system which required large amounts of in-house servers    Content Management System Transformation  A cooperative of advertising and marketing firms in Brazil and SA to manage translation of English-language videos and stream in multiple platforms. Ability to mix and match cost and bidding scenarios.  • Created new revenue model for the group  • Enhanced working relationship between member companies  • Increased library from 20k to over 300k videos e-Portal Customization January 2009 to February 2010 Specs for various custom subprojects for Oracle ERP, Financials and Human Resource/Recruitment and Payroll Modules. Interface with BA/Project Managers for test scripts and test cases for Financial system integration and conversion. Completed 2 weeks before schedule.  Implementation of HR module with an education tracking/ Recruitment sub-module component. Worked along project managers and developers to test, train and deploy a Recruitment module interfacing with a large web portal. Reduced employee recruitment process by around 45%.    Patient HER  Addition of new functional reports and changes to client facing screens for VistaA systems. Extraction of data for legacy reporting and analysis. Specimen statistics and comparison portal.  • Managed over 250 change requests with 95% on-time resolution  • Configuration to end-user specifications    ReDesign Billing, AR, Accounting and Collections Systems  Replaced manual and 5 different accounting systems with one integrated solution. Accounting for write-downs, etc. Interface with ACH/Payment processor for automatic cash receipt. Automation of Collections and Follow-Up systems.  • Eliminated use of spreadsheets for Revenue Reporting  • Reduced time to close month end  • Reduced the Average Days to Pay by 25%  • Automated process between revenue transactions and ERP System AR Capture    CRM System Re-Engineering (Java)  Specs and Process re-engineering of Sales CRM with a Commission sub-module development. Developed training material/procedures manual for department heads and sales force. Training and deployment of an external sales force management sub-module for approximately 750 external users. Increased salesrep retention by 80%.    Online Courseware system (Java)  Developed online courseware for training new employees on using an online portal to check the status of their benefits, absentees, payroll ytd, submit forms to HR, etc. Testing and Training with the HR module. JAVA/PHP Developer AXILLON GROUP 2005 to 2010 Database creation and Reporting specialist. Designed, Developed and sold full suite Accounting/ERP System for the Windows/Intel/Network infrastructure: Education Bachelor in Computer Science in Computer Science University of Miami 1994