Senior Software Developer Senior Software <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Software Developer Bellevue, WA I am a Microsoft .NET software developer for more than ten years, and a Python developer for two and a half years. I have a passion for data collection and data manipulation, and enjoy creating inspiring data visualizations. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Software Developer FileAndServeXpress - Bellevue, WA January 2014 to December 2017 Developed new core features for an enterprise court filing management system. Managed the offshore team’s directives, communicated the requirements, collaborated design decisions, and scheduled tasks for an agile-like sprint development process.  • Designed and implemented new application features involving data integration between court filing systems and FileAndServe.  • Diagnosed and fixed performance issues in an enterprise data migration system. Collaborated with the support team to create maintenance and monitoring scripts.  • Diagnosed and corrected performance issues in existing enterprise search application.  • Collaborated with support team members on high priority customer issues. Created support tools to decrease customer support times. Enterprise Systems Developer LexisNexis - Bellevue, WA January 2011 to January 2014 Leading a six terabyte data migration project that included efforts from seven different development teams. I also lead development for one of the teams, responsible for the initial data collection process and packaging.  • Mapped out and documented the overall data migration process, and worked closely with all teams to create an overall development and testing schedule.  • Scheduled the detailed technical discussions with development teams, and conducted technical design reviews.  • Created and successfully executed the project development plan.  • Designed the Windows service, and multiple components that collect and package content for migration processing. Designed the metadata xml schema.  • Managed releases and post release maintenance releases.  • Using Google Maps API and JQuery Ajax, created a web site that displays a dynamic animated global heatmap. Python Developer LexisNexis - Bellevue, WA January 2009 to January 2011 Developed web applications and RESTful web API’s to support an application platform that creates links to Legal Matters within five different legal content sets.  • Using the Django web framework, designed and developed web applications and RESTful web API’s that normalizes specific content metadata fields from the different datasets to link “Legal Matters”.  • Created a database of hundreds of regular expressions that separated the metadata parts used to create a normalized format.  • Created an application that publishes historical and daily data dumps of created “Legal Matters”.  • Coded the parsing module for LexisNexis and simple search terms and connectors in Python using PLY. Software Developer LexisNexis - Bellevue, WA January 2006 to January 2011 Wrote a windows service that consumes a MS SQL Server database queue for the purpose of submitting documents to a third party OCR engine. Wrote a DLL that submits a PDF document to an OCR service, and consumes the resulting PDF document.   • Coded a Windows service that submits PDF documents to third party OCR solution.  • Coded several extensions to a Windows service that collect public domain web site data, parse the result, and store desired elements in a Microsoft SQL Server database.  • Wrote Microsoft SQL Server stored procedures to translate staged data into a normalized database schema. Education Bachelor of Science in Mathematics University of Washington - Seattle, WA Skills .NET (10+ years), ECLIPSE (4 years), Git (2 years), LINUX (2 years), Javascript (10+ years), C# (10+ years), MVC (10+ years), Microsoft SQL Server (10+ years), Oracle 10G (2 years), PostgresSQL (2 years), XML (10+ years), XSLT (7 years), XML (10+ years), Python (3 years), Django Web Framework (3 years), HTML (10+ years), IIS (10+ years), Ubuntu (2 years), MongoDB (2 years), Agile (6 years), Scrum (6 years), Soap API (7 years), RESTful Services (6 years), Wiindows Service Developement (7 years), Excel (10+ years), Word (10+ years) Links http://www.linkedin.com/ericspunaugle Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Development Tools: Microsoft Visual Studio (2005 thru 2017), Microsoft Team Foundation Server, SQL Server Management Studio, Aptana, Eclipse, Subversion, Git  Operating Systems: Windows 7, Windows XP, Linux RedHat, Ubuntu  Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Outlook, Publisher