Senior Python Developer / DevOps Engineer Senior <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> / DevOps Engineer .Net developer San Diego, CA Work Experience Senior Python Developer / DevOps Engineer Intel Corporation - Guadalajara, MX December 2016 to Present WWID: 11515913)    Project Description  To architect and develop software tools (by using Python3, C/C++ and Yocto Project) to maintain software stacks and configurations that helps developers through the creation of custom Linux-based systems and tailoring of Linux images for embedded products utilizing the sundry Intel's IOT Hardware devices.    Responsibilities:  • Architect, develop and extend cluster tool for automated flashing and testing of an OS image on a real Intel's IOT Hardware device.  • Devise and define automation strategies for simulation and emulation that involve cluster tools and continuous integration.  • Development of provisioning scripts to deal with testing farms of Linux Images within AWS.  • Maintainer of several Python packages for The Yocto software stack.  • Creation of security patches for several open source utilities.  • Maintainer of python3 library to mimic human interaction as per keyboard and power switching.  • Attend scrum meetings.  Environment: Python3, Ansible, AWS, Git, Jenkins, Bash shell scripting, C/C++, Linux, Qemu, JSON, Yocto Senior Python Developer / Software Tool Architect Intel Corporation - Guadalajara, MX November 2013 to November 2016 WWID: 11515913)  Project Description  To architect and develop cluster tools (by using Python3 and C/C++) for pre-silicon environments (simulation and emulation) that could test, excite and load the sundry hardware blocks and software components which are included into the different generations (still supported and new ones) of the Intel's graphic driver (Linux and windows beta flavors). Creation and purpose of patches as per the business specifications of the graphic driver.    Responsibilities:  • Develop cluster tools to excite and test graphic driver hardware blocks and software components in testing farms as per test design documents of QA staff.  • Devise and define automation strategies for simulation and emulation that involve cluster tools and continuous integration.  • Write C/C++ patches to correct bugs as per the business specifications of the graphic driver as a product.  • Determine bugs hardware wise by capturing waveforms manually with mentor graphics tools.  • Interaction with pre-silicon hardware staff to determine when a possible hardware bug is found.  • Provisioning of testing cluster with ansible.  • Attend scrum meetings.  Environment: Python3, C/C++, STL, boost library, Jenkins, Tcp/ip sockets, Ansible, Xen Hyphervisor, Git, Cmake, Linux, Windows beta flavors. Senior Python and C/C++ Developer Tiempo Development July 2012 to September 2013 Project Description  To architect and code user applications, diagnostic applications and platform development components for Linux-based Equinox's payment terminals (by using C/C++). Creation of tools to mimic and simulate the human being and payment legacy terminal models interaction along with newer payment terminal models (by using Python and C/C++). Porting of several software components from legacy to newer payment terminal models.    Responsibilities:  • Design and development of serial legacy protocol to communicate legacy payment terminals and the new ones.  • Design and development of a legacy payment terminal simulator to assist testing of serial legacy protocol and probe of concept.  • Development of diagnostic application for Magnetic Stripe Reader Hardware of Equinox's payment terminal Apollo.  • Bug fixing with gdb and its debugging scripting language.  • Attend scrum meetings.  Environment: Python, C/C++, STL, boost library, Jenkins, Git, Cmake, Linux, Buildroot, Shell scripting, Jira, NFS, U-Boot, gtest. Senior Python and Java Developer / Services Software Architect Agnux ERP December 2008 to June 2012 Project Description  To architect, plan and code the first Agnux ERP release for cloud. Prior versions of this ERP were never designed with a cloud approach in mind. Newer service oriented architecture shall partially or totally reuse components of legacy stuff besides offering manners to extend and maintain the software contraption out of the monolithic application approach that was originally having (by using mainly Python, Java and C).    Responsibilities:  • Design service oriented approach as per different domain areas of the chain value  • Migration of store procedures from Oracle 10 to PostrgreSQL 9  • Lead Development of services running in Python  • Lead Development of Web UI running upon J2EE Server.  • Development of jQuery web components.  • Administration and support of customer physical and cloud virtual servers.  • Code repository administration  • Code Review  • Development of electronic billing service  • Mentoring about J2EE and Python Design patterns, object oriented programming languages and bash shell scripting for coworker  • ROLAP ETL, Cube Building and design with Pentaho Business Intelligence Suite (Community edition).  • Development of Linux Daemons to log data fetched from product pipelines and their measure devices.  Environment: Python, C, Maven, Ant, Java, JavaScript, JQuery, pentaho, PLSQL, PGPLSQL, Postgresql, Restful, WSDL, GIT, OpenSSL, Oracle, Glassfish, Bash shell scripting, Tcp/ip sockets, Linux, HTML 4. Python and C developer Kernel Technologies February 2008 to November 2008 Project Description  Creation of software components, and user tools upon AIX Unix to assist applications and human beings involved through configuration of physical PBX and IVR devices.    Responsibilities:  • Design and develop several command lines tools and curses applications to poke configurations into PBX and IVR of the company.  • Development of bash shell scripts to inject massive configurations.  Environment: C, Python Ncurses library, make Java, Python and C Developer / Innovation and Development Engineer Telefonica Movistar December 2005 to January 2008 Project Description  To architect and develop client libraries to interact with Telefonica platforms which are consumed and leased by Latin America clients. Devise smart migrations of software platforms from Solaris to Red-hat Linux (real or virtual), ensuring the high availability and scalability of such platforms.    Responsibilities:  • Development of client library of Short Message Service (SMS) protocol in several languages.  • Support 7x24 for Enterprise SMS Systems MEX-LA TAM running on Red-hat Linux and SunOS.  • Development of Korn shell scripts to process and communicate data to other platforms about telephone portability and data warehouse  • Development of C and Python applications like middle-ware between Telefonica enterprise platforms and customer platforms.  • Management, configuration and startup of Virtual Environments using the hyper-visor Xen and VMware ESX.  Environment: Python, C, Ant, Java, SMS, Xen, VMware ESX. Education Bachelor's in Computational Systems Engineer University Valle of Bravo Guadalajara Jalisco 2004 Skills PYTHON (10+ years), LINUX (10+ years), TCP (6 years), TCP/IP (6 years), JAVA (5 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:  Programming Skills Python, Java, C, C++, Shell  Web Technologies HTML/HTML5/CSS, JavaScript, JSON.  Web Framework Django, Spring.  Development Tools PyCharm, Vi, Eclipse. Make, Cmake  Operating Systems Windows7, 8 & 10, Linux/Unix Ubuntu, MAC OS  Python Libraries Jinga, NumPy, Urllib2, Unit Test, PyXB, Reportlab, lxml, qrcode, Zeep, Pickle  Methodologies Agile, SCRUM and Waterfall.  Databases Microsoft SQL Server, Oracle, MySQL, PostgreSQL and Redis  Version Controls SVN, CVS, GitHub.  Protocols TCP/IP, HTTP/HTTPS, SNMP, SMTP, Deployment Tools Heroku, Jenkins.  Web Servers JBoss 4.0.5, BEA Web Logic, Web Sphere, Apache Tomcat 5.5/6.0.  Web Services AWS, SOAP, RESTful Web services.  Agile Methodologies SCRUM.  Technical Writing Tools Spark, MSWord, Excel, Pages, and Terminal.  Other Tools Eclipse, Maven, ANT Build