SENIOR  PYTHON  DEVELOPER SENIOR&nbsp;<span class="hl">PYTHON</span>&nbsp;<span class="hl">DEVELOPER</span> Charlotte, NC • Accomplished Technology leader with progressive experience managing large cross functional teams and architecting highly successful software products/applications..Exceptionally well qualified IT Management Professional, with more thanNineteenyearsof experience in all phases of enterprise SoftwareDevelopment Life Cycleout which over 7 years of experience in managing multi-disciplinary teams of varying sizes.Result driven project management professional with a proven track record to deliver projects on time and within budget.Proven expertise in software architecture design on Microsoft Technologies. Sincere passion for resolving complex problems and business challenges through technical innovation. Dedicated, results driven, Capacity for Work to Meeting Deadlines and energetic leader. Extensive experience in Finance& Banks/Credit Union,Commodity Trading, Investment management Insurance,Gaming industry, Legal & Criminal Justice, Industrial automation Industries and Hospitals.    Major Strengths:    • Manage $5M+ projects annually and decreased the expenditure by 5% on average, introducing various Strategy & Process.  • Architected & Managed eCommerce, Digital, Big Data Projects (Web/Mobile) from Scratch to release and beyond with Production support  • Manage onshore, Nearshore, offshore software development teams and mentor and coach internal employees, retaining key talent.  • Provided consulting services on industry best-practices on Digital transformation of their websites, Google analytics of online business model growth to various Financial Institutions (Wells Fargo/Landmark Bank/ Cathay Bank/LionBank/AACU /Service 1st /MECU)  • Provided consulting services and implemented the Single Sign On login&Multifactor Authentication. (SSO) for various Financial Institutions (Wells Fargo/Service 1st)  • Provided consulting services on security related risks on their websites and provided solutions for various Financial Institutions (Wells Fargo/Service 1st, Lion Bank (Fidelity)).  • Wearing lot of hats, Solution Architect, Project/Deliver Manager, Development Lead and Engagement/Account manager.  • Managing highly efficient global technical team around 25+ members (Project Manager, Architects, Software Engineers, Business Analysts, and QA) and scale the team based on the project.  • Excellent in project management methodologies, planning, scheduling methods,and tools.  • Expert in leading enterprise software solution projects and delivering it within budget and timelines.  • Extensively involved in budgeting, forecasting & estimation of projects of various sizes.  • Proven leadership skills in Product life Cycle Management, Vendor Management, Project Management, Technical Team building/Motivation, Budge forecasts/Savings, Software Engineering.  • Played role of Scrum Master for Onsite, Offshore& Nearshore teams.  • Excellent communication, presentation and organizational skills.  • Ability to maintain an excellent relationship with clients and team for better results.  • Strong documentation and reporting skills  • Excellent interpersonal, collaboration, and problem solving skills.  • Develop strategic technology plans and manage costing, forecasts, and reporting.  • Ensure compliance in highly regulated industries. Utilize best-practices, including Waterfall, and Agile methodologies to ensure high-quality project completions.  • Hands-on technology leader with reputation for professionalism and leadership.  • Extensive experience in Architecture, Analysis, Design, Development,Testing of application using C#, VB.Net, WCF Services, ASP.Net,MVC, WPF,Windows Azure, Rest, Web Services, Windows Services, Jquery, AJAX, ADO.Net, SQL Server,Oracle,UML,EA, NOSQL, Big Data,XSD, XML, XSL, MongoDb, MS BI, mobile applications,Sitecore, Kentico.  • In-depth knowledge and experience in information systems architecture, software design methodologies, design patterns, object oriented design and establishing best practices, guidelines and process for selecting, developing, and implementing information systems within enterprise.  • Invented new products &holding patents it. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience SENIOR  PYTHON  DEVELOPER Bluespire Marketing September 2015 to Present SENIOR PYTHON DEVELOPER. Sr. Technical Manager/ Technical Architect Bluespire Marketing - Mountain View, CA March 2015 to Present Responsibilities:  • Advise on all technology initiatives within the enterprise, from data architecture to front-end customer technology experience and working directly with the senior management.  • Represented to all front facing clients for various Tools & Technology, Architecture, Design, Development, Security, Performance, Deployment & Infrastructure related questions or concerns.  • Engaged in all phases of project management discussion with the clients and ensuring to meet their requirements.  • Prepared client-facing weekly and monthly Status Reports as per the client organization/company policies & process.  • Provided project management plans, schedules as per the client organization/company policies & process.  • Managed end to end Delivery: Digital Strategy, Design, Development (Mobile, Web Development, services), Deployment/installation Support/ DevOps , Project / Program management.  • Managed several successful projects (Web/Mobile) in an agile development environment using the scrum methodology.  • Architected&ManagedeCommerce, Digital Projects from Scratch to release and beyond with Production supportfor security and fault tolerance.  • Led teams across broad technical, UX and business disciplines. Focused teams on business objectives and tracked progress to ensure project milestones were completed on time, on budget and with the desired results.  • Architectedvarious Sitecore \ kenticodigital projects for various hospitals & Senior living (Web/Mobile/CMS),  • Created with future vision architecture to expedite delivery of new products and services to market while meeting company's cost and risk reduction objectives.  • Managed licensing and Technology partnerships to control the operational costs..  • Introduced process changes to maintain quality as the team increased in size and expanded to multiple locations.  • Introduced Deployment & Release cycle process for all projects.  • Defined SOW, SOP, KPI and SLA for various projects.  • Created project roadmaps, project plans, project schedules, quality plan, root casual analysis, supporting operational policies and procedures.  • Acted as the central liaison in a cross-functional structure, working with Clients and Accounts to establish the priorities and ensured that business needs and expectations are being met in a professional manner  • Partnered with the leadership team to manage expectations and ensured collaboration between departments. Assisted in the negotiation and arbitration of business decision trade-offs.  • Monitored and reported on project status or functional area(s) to senior management.  • Participated in program level presentations; contributed to communications and executive presentations on development project status & issues  • Extensively used basecamp\Jira for storing and validating various documents like Requirement Specification, Functional specification, Design Specification, Test Designs and Test Cases.  • Jira was used to manage the user story progress.  • Involved in documenting\Creating the Requirement Traceability Matrix and validating the output of the applications against it.  • Collaborated with other project managers to identify and manage project dependencies  • Managed team the build/migration of releases to test and production environments  • Design and execute proofs-of-concept for critical enterprise capabilities, with efficiency and securitymeasures. Analyze business and technology challenges,suggest solutions.  • Managednearly around 25 onsite, Nearshore and offshore teams, did design reviews, code reviews, estimation of work, managing various releases.  • Worked with team to build training and career development plans.  • Ensured the team had work with increasing levels of responsibility.  • Did Effort Estimation and Scheduling, Work Allocation and did Closure activities.  • Worked closely with QA and the Ops team for various releases.  • Ensuring that all the work, meets the quality requirements and zero defects.  Operating Systems: Windows 2008/ 2012  Architecture: Service Oriented Architecture  Middleware: WCF\ Rest Services, Windows Services written in C#  Software: VS.Net 2015, C#, WCF,TFS Fakes,  ASP.Net MVC 4.0, JIRA, SiteCore, Kentico, Basecamp Principal Software Engineer Symantec - Mountain View, CA May 2013 to March 2015 • Architect&Design system for critical enterprise capabilities, with efficiency and securitymeasures. Analyze business and technology challenges,suggest solutions.  • Did design reviews, code reviews, estimation of work, managing releases.  • Worked closely with business to ensure the system meets all their requirements.  • Extensively worked closely with business in documenting the requirements for the Traceability Matrix for the user stories and validating it against them.  • Extensively used share point for maintaining and validating various documents like Requirement Specification, Functional specification, Design Specification, Test Designs and Test Cases.  • Worked closely with business in documenting\Creating the Requirement Traceability Matrix and validating the applications against it.  • Worked closely with Business managers, Business analysts and focus groups to avoid redundancy, minimize expenditures, and improve overall synergy within organization.  • Worked on multi projects at the same time.  • Participated in multiple Scrums teams.  • Defined coding standards.  • Redefined build and code consolidation process.  • Redefined Deployment process.  • Administered version control, managed various version releases, branches, merge of change set, builds.  • Created various User controls,Web forms, dynamic Web controls using ASP.Net in C#.  • Created excel reports using VBA.  • Used JQuery and Java scripts to write clientside scripting.  • Created various pal/sql packages for Business Transactions.  • Used Nunit framework for Unit testing the various components.  • Ensuring that all the work, meets the quality requirements and zero defects  Operating Systems: Windows XP, 2003  Architecture: 3 tier Architecture  Software: VS.Net 2008, perforce, C#, ADO.Net, Oracle 10g, Application Engineering Manager \ Technical Architect Cognizant Technology Solutions February 2012 to May 2013 Responsibilities:  • Managed several successful projects (Web/Mobile/ETL/SOA) to improve core system and to extend scope of site in an agile development environment.  • Led teams across broad technical, financial and business disciplines. Focused teams on business objectives and tracked progress to ensure project milestones were completed on time, on budget and with the desired results.  • Architectedthe Business Class Portal (Web/Mobile/CMS), Created with future vision architecture to expedite delivery of new products and services to market while meeting company's cost and risk reduction objectives.  • Architected & Led development & delivery ofcloud (Azure) based data repository and migrated web services to MS Azure Cloud.  • Mitigated risk factors through careful analysis of financial and statistical data. Anticipated and managed change effectively in rapidly evolving global business environments.  • Led teams to deliver both Web & Mobile applications which services the Comcast business users.  • Scrum Master for two teams and also participated in Scrum of Scrums.  • Introduced TDD development life cycle with Continuous Integration and gated check in's and implemented the same with various scrum teams.  • Defined KRA's, KPI and SLA for various projects.  • Created project roadmaps, project plans, project schedules, quality plan, root casual analysis, supporting operational policies and procedures.  • Acted as the central liaison in a cross-functional structure, working with Business and operations to establish the priorities and ensured that business needs and expectations are being met in a professional manner  • Partnered with the project leadership team to manage expectations and ensured collaboration between departments. Assisted in the negotiation and arbitration of business decision trade-offs.  • Monitored and reported on project status or functional area(s) to senior management.  • Identify new recruits to the team and manage resources based on their skill sets.  • Hired new members &Re-train team members.  • Participated in program level presentations; contributed to communications and executive presentations on development project status & issues  • Extensively used share point for storing and validating various documents like Requirement Specification, Functional specification, Design Specification, Test Designs and Test Cases.  • Rally tool to manage the user story progress.  • Involved in documenting\Creating the Requirement Traceability Matrix and validating the output of the applications against it.  • Collaborated with other project managers to identify and manage project dependencies  • Managed the build/migration of releases to test and production environments  • Design and execute proofs-of-concept for critical enterprise capabilities, with efficiency and securitymeasures. Analyze business and technology challenges,suggest solutions.  • Managed21onsite, Nearshore and offshore teams, did design reviews, code reviews, estimation of work, managing various releases.  • Did performance appraisal for direct reports.  • Worked closely with stake holders, Business managers,UX team,Releasemanagers, Software Engineers, QA, and focus groups to avoid redundancy, minimize expenditures, and improve overall synergy within organization.  • Managed and directed work to the scrum team.  • Worked with team to build training and career development plans.  • Ensured the team had work with increasing levels of responsibility.  • Did Effort Estimation and Scheduling, Work Allocation and did Closure activities.  • Worked closely with QA and the Ops team for various releases.  • Ensuring that all the work, meets the quality requirements and zero defects.  Operating Systems: Windows 2008/ 2012  Architecture: Service Oriented Architecture  Middleware: WCF Services, Windows Services written in C# Project \Technical .net Lead Bally Technologies - Reno, NV June 2009 to February 2012 Download and Configuration Management (DCM)  Bally Technologies, is a diversified, worldwide gaming company that designs, manufactures, operates and distributes slot and video machines to a global gaming industry that includes casino, racing, video lottery, central determination and Class II markets. I was with Server Based Game (SBG) group where we Download/Upload & configure the games on the Machines. I was involved in Architecting an Engine which will do all these functionalities.  Responsibilities:  • Project lead and Architectedthe system, DCM Engine., Created with future vision architecture to expedite delivery of new products and services to market while meeting company's cost and risk reduction objectives.  • Design and execute proofs-of-concept for critical enterprise capabilities, with efficiency and securitymeasures. Analyze business and technology challenges,suggest solutions.  • Lead both onsite and offshore teams, did design reviews, code reviews, estimation of work, managing various releases.  • Negotiated with the clients (Casinos) to upgrade their existing system with ours by explaining various advantages and performance benefits.  • Worked closely with various State regulators and international regulators to ensure the product meets all their requirements.  • Worked closely with project managers, Engineers, and focus groups to avoid redundancy, minimize expenditures, and improve overall synergy within organization.  • Worked with mangers to identify new recruits to the team and manage resources based on their skill sets.  • Extensively worked closely with product owner in documenting the requirements for the Traceability Matrix for the user stories and validating it against them.  • Extensively used share point for maintaining and validating various documents like Requirement Specification, Functional specification, Design Specification, Test Designs and Test Cases.  • Worked closely with product owner and team in creating the Requirement Traceability Matrix and validating the applications against it.  • Managed both onsite and offshore team and worked on multi projects at the same time.  • Introduced MVVM pattern for WPF application and redesigned an existing application to WPF.  • Worked closely with QA, Compliance and the Installation team for various releases.  • Used various design patterns like Façade, Proxy, Adapter, visitor, observer patterns.  • In depth knowledge of GSA protocol of various versions.  • Gathered Business Requirements, Converted to System Requirements.  • Created Technical design, Functional design, Class diagrams, Entity diagrams, documents using UML in Visio  • Created Customized Code smith Template for Auto Code generation for WCF Service Class, Interfaces, proxy &config files and DAL Classes.  • Created DCM Engine as WCF service and hosted as windows service in C#.  • Created XAML based WPF UI screens.  • Administered version control, managed various version releases, branches, merge of changeset, builds.  • Created various Handler Components which will communicate to the OS for the Games via G2S Messages based on G2S Protocols.  • Created XSD schema which were compatible with G2SProtocol's various versions.  • Created various Usercontrols, Webforms, dynamic Web controls using ASP.Net in C#.  • Used JQuery and Java scripts to write client side scripting.  • Used Azman& ADS for security to the system.  • Used SHA 1 encryption for validating the game packages.  • Designed reports using Sql Server Reporting Services.  • Created various stored procedures for Business Transactions.  • Created Views to access data across Databases and Wrote Complex SQL Functions.  • Used Nunit framework for Unit testing the various components.  • Ensuring that all the work, meets the quality requirements and zero defects.  Operating Systems: Windows XP, 2003, 2008  Architecture: Service Oriented Architecture  Middleware: WCF Services, Windows Services written in C#, webservices in c#  Software: VS.Net 2005, TFS, C#, ADO.Net, SQL Server 2005, Windows Forms SENIOR PYTHON DEVELOPER SSIS, SSRS - Charlotte, NC 2012 to 2012 C#, WCF,TFS Fakes, MS Project, SSIS, SSRS ,  ASP.Net MVC 4.0, Windows Rally,SiteCore, SoapUi SENIOR PYTHON DEVELOPER Scientific Games - Charlotte, NC April 2008 to September 2010 SENIOR PYTHON DEVELOPER iGATE Inc - Charlotte Cove, NC December 2005 to April 2008 SENIOR PYTHON DEVELOPER Keane Inc November 2002 to July 2005 SENIOR PYTHON DEVELOPER ENTCOMM Inc - Charlotte, NC March 2000 to November 2002 SENIOR PYTHON DEVELOPER ATL - Charlotte, NC January 1999 to March 2000 SENIOR  PYTHON  DEVELOPER Cognizant Technologies January 2012 SENIOR PYTHON DEVELOPER RGA Inc - Charlotte, NC September 2010 Education Bachelor's Skills ASP (8 years), ASP.Net (8 years), C# (9 years), Middleware (6 years), MS ASP (8 years) Additional Information Computer Proficiency:  Operating Systems: Windows 7/2008/2012  Databases: Oracle 9i,10g, MS Access, SQL Server 2005/2008/2012/2014  Languages: C++,C#  Internet Programming: VB.Net, ADO.Net, ASP.Net, MVC, HTML5,DHTML, AJAX, ASP, ADO, IIS, EDI, XML,  XSL, XPath  GUI: Visual Basic, win Forms, WPF, VS.Net 2005/2008  Middleware: REMOTING, WEBSERVICES, DCOM, ATLCOM, Com+, SOAP,WSDL,  WCF,REST  Cloud & SaaS Platforms: Windows Azure  Application Server: MTS, MSMQ, BizTalk Server  Other Tools: Team Foundation Server (TFS), Visual Source Safe, ERWIN, Crystal Reports 8.0,  Visio, MSProject, Crystal Reports for .NET, SQL Server Reporting Services  2005/2008, Enterprise Architect, perforce, SSIS. Rally, MongoDb  Content Management System: Sitecore, Kentico, Drupal, Ektron