Senior Python Developer Senior <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Python Developer - Ohio Software Services Columbus, OH ? 11 years of experience in Web/Application Development in analytical programming using Python with skills in analysis, design, development, testing and deploying software applications.  ? Good experience using various Python libraries to speed up development (libraries used: Beautiful Soup, NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas data frame, network, urllib2, MySQL dB for database connectivity, JSON libraries).  ? Experienced in building tools such as ANT, MAKE, GULP, MAVEN, and JENKINS.  ? Experience in using various version control systems like CVS, Git, GitHub and Amazon EC2 and deployment using Heroku.  ? Sound knowledge in Spring, Hibernate, RDBMS, Web, XML, Ant/Maven, HTML, Python, Shell Scripting.  ? Experienced in working on Celery Task queue and service broker using RabbitMQ.  ? Experienced with Elasticsearch, Log stash and Kibana (ELK)  ? Good experience in handling errors/exceptions and debugging the issues in large scale applications.  ? Admirable problem solving and decision-making capabilities which are renowned by associates for quality of work and unconventional solutions.  ? Highly motivated, dedicated, quick learner and have proven ability to build and manage a team and work individually.  ? Strong analytical and problem-solving skills, always striving for new Knowledge.  ? Expert in maintaining technical documentation for projects.  ? Excellent communication and interpersonal skills, ability to work independently as well as part of an integrated team.  ? Hands-on experiences in writing and reviewing requirements, architecture documents, test plans, design documents, quality analysis and audits.  ? Involved in Developing a Restful service using Python Flask framework.  ? Made Django web based apps for Insurance premium calculations.  ? Developed entire frontend and back-end modules using Python on Django Web Framework with GIT.  ? Extensive work experience and knowledge of all phases of Software development life cycle (SDLC), which includes Client Interaction, Business Analysis and Modeling, Design/Architecture, Development, Integration, Documentation, Coding, Testing, Deployment and developing applications utilizing AGILE and SCRUM methodologies.  ? Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  ? Experience in Installing, upgrading and configuring RedHat Linux4.x, 5.x, 6.x and 7.x using Kickstart Servers.  ? Experienced in implementing Puppet, Chef. Worked on Data-Center operation and migration across Unix and Linux platforms.  ? Proficient in developing Web Services and its related frameworks like: WSDL, SOAP, REST, AXIS and Jersey.  ? Very much comfortable in analyzing, debugging, troubleshooting and solving problems and issues in application  ? Experience in Creation and managing user accounts, security, rights, disk space and process monitoring in Solaris and Redhat Linux.  ? Experienced in implementing and maintaining an Apache Tomcat /MySQL/PHP, LDAP, LAMP web service environment.  ? Experienced in migrate an On-premises VM or Azure Classic VM to Azure ARM Subscription with Azure Site Recovery.  ? Hands on experience in configuring and supporting site-to-site and remote access Cisco, IPsec, VPN solutions using ASA/PIX firewalls, Cisco and VPN client.    Certification & Education:    ? Certifications in SAS Programming  ? Certifications Data Science using SAS  ? Certifications in R Programming Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Python Developer Ohio Software Services - Columbus, OH April 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  ? Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  ? Developed Business Logic using Python on Django Web Framework.  ? Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  ? Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  ? Developed Business Logic using Python on Django Web Framework.  ? Write scripts using python modules and its libraries to develop programs that improve processing of access requests  ? Utilized PyUnit, the Python Unit test framework, for all Python applications and used Django Database API's to access database objects.  ? Used JQuery and Ajax calls for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  ? Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web based solution.  ? Used Python based GUI components for the front end functionality such as selection criteria, Created test harness to enable comprehensive testing utilizing Python.  ? Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) for improved efficiency of storage and fast access.  ? Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  ? Involved in front end and utilized Bootstrap and Angular.js for page design.  ? Created Data tables utilizing PyQt to display customer and policy information and add, delete,  ? update customer records.  ? Used PyQuery for selecting particular DOM elements when parsing HTML.  ? Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  ? Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  ? Used JQuery and Ajax calls for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  ? Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web based solution.  ? Used Python based GUI components for the front end functionality such as selection criteria,  ? Created test harness to enable comprehensive testing utilizing Python.  ? Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) for improved efficiency of storage and fast access.  ? Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  ? Involved in front end and utilized Bootstrap and Angular.js for page design.  ? Created Data tables utilizing PyQt to display customer and policy information and add, delete, update customer records  ? Used PyQuery for selecting particular DOM elements when parsing HTML.  ? Used Wireshark, live http headers, and Fiddler debugging proxy to debug the Flash object and help the developer create a functional component. Senior Software Developer Ventech Solutions - Columbus, OH April 2013 to March 2016 Environment: Python, Django, Shell Scripting, AWS, Pandas, PyQt, PyQuery, Wireshark, Flash, DOM, JSON, PHP, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JavaScript, Angular.js, Bootstrap, Apache Web Server, MYSQL, GitHub, LINUX.  Ventech Solutions - Columbus, OH Apr 2013 - Mar 2016  Senior Software Developer  Responsibilities:    ? Used Wireshark, live http headers, and Fiddler debugging proxy to debug the Flash object and help the developer create a functional component.  ? Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data  ? manipulation and retrieval.  ? Having very good experience with BIG DATA  ? Created Business Logic using Python to create Planning and Tracking functions  ? Created UI Screens for initiation and validation.  ? Worked on UI using HTML5, CSS3 and Java Scripts.  ? Developed multi-threaded standalone app in Python and PHP to view performance.  ? Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis.  ? Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  ? Having very good experience with BIG DATA  ? Created Business Logic using Python to create Planning and Tracking functions  ? Created UI Screens for initiation and validation.  ? Worked on UI using HTML5, CSS3 and Java Scripts.  ? Developed multi-threaded standalone app in Python and PHP to view performance.  ? Skilled in using collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  ? Deployment of application on Web logic 8.1 for testing and development team.  ? Validate test content in Emulation for SoC Display Controller.  ? Associated with development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  ? Involved in preparing technical design document.  ? Expertise in Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) and its related technologies like Web Services, BPEL, WSDLs, SOAP, XML, XSD, XSLT etc.  ? Designed Cassandra schema for the APIs.  ? Used Connect SOAP rule to fetch the WebServices.  ? Used SOAP UI to test the external service.  ? Used JIRA for project tacking and Involved in testing the application.  ? Participated in the complete SDLC process and used PHP to develop website functionality.  ? Version control using GITHub.  ? Involved in writing stored procedures using MySQL.  ? Interfacing with supervisors, systems administrators and production to ensure production  ? deadlines are met.    ENVIRONMENT: Python 3.x, Django 1.8, Shell Scripting, AWS, Pandas, PyQt, PyQuery, Wireshark, Flash, DOM, JSON, PHP, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JavaScript, Angular.js, Bootstrap, Apache Web Server, MYSQL, GitHub, LINUX. Python Engineer OOA and OOD - Dallas, TX January 2011 to March 2013 Responsibilities:    ? Involved in preparing engineering specification with OOA and OOD.  ? Used Rational Rose Enterprise to develop Use Case diagrams, Class diagrams, Collaboration and Sequence Diagrams, State Diagrams, Data Modeling.  ? Developed application logic using Python, Jython, Java script.  ? Used JMS for updating Mailing plans and tracking them.  ? Implemented front end for third party Web service using JQuery, HTML, AJAX, JSON and JavaScript.  ? Used Java Server Pages for content layout and presentation with Jython.  ? Developed the frontend for interaction by using the Django framework.  ? Worked with version controlling system CVS and SVN.  ? Created Data layer in MYSQL.  ? Extracted and loaded data using Python scripts and PL/SQL packages.  ? Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis.  ? Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  ? Working in team of Architects and Developers to build and deploy Python Flask Peewee Linux AWS.  ? Version control using GITHub.  ? Involved in writing stored procedures using MySQL.  ? Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  ? Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  ? Working in team of Architects and Developers to build and deploy Python Flask Peewee Linux AWS.  ? Supported Java application for Media portal management.  ? Debugging and testing of the applications & fine tuning performance. Provided maintenance support in production environment.  ? Implemented DAO database access objects. Senior Software Developer New York, NY May 2008 to December 2010 ENVIRONMENT: Java, Python 2.7, PHP, Django, CVS, JavaScript, HTML/CSS, MYSQL, PL/SQL, JDBC, UNIX Shell Scripting, Red Hat Linux, Weblogic Application Server.  Stride - New York, NY May 2008 - Dec 2010  Senior Software Developer  Responsibilities:    ? Used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  ? Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users.  ? Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation.  ? Used PHP as an HTML embedded scripting language, in front end web development.  ? Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  ? Carried out various mathematical operations for calculation purpose using python libraries.  ? Built various graphs for business decision making using Python matplotlib library.  ? Fetched twitter feeds for certain important keyword using python-twitter library.  ? Used Python library Beautiful Soup for webscrapping.ss.  ? Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  ? Implement code in python to retrieve and manipulate data.  ? Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  ? Also used Bootstrap as a mechanism to manage and organize the html page layout.  ? Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS, JQuery, JSON and JavaScript.  ? Used Bootstrap as a mechanism to manage and organize the html page layout.  ? Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters. Software Engineer March 2006 to April 2008 Environment: MySQL, HTML, Python 2.0, Django 1.4, CSS, XML, MySQL, JavaScript, Linux, Shell Scripting, PHP, AJAX.  MSC Software - CA Mar 2006 - Apr 2008  Software Engineer  Responsibilities:  ? Analysis and Design of application.  ? Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  ? Worked with millions of database records on a daily basis, finding common errors and bad data patterns and fixing them.  ? Exported/Imported data between different data sources using SQL Server Management Studio.  ? Maintained program libraries, users' manuals and technical documentation.  ? Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  ? Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL package.  ? Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL db package.  ? Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  ? Developed entire front-end and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  ? Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  ? Rewrite existing Python/Django module to deliver certain format of data.  ? Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  ? Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  ? Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.    Environment: Python, Django, Flex, Beautiful soup, PyUnit, Angular.js, Node.js, XML, MS Visio, MS Project, JIRA, Apache, Git, UML, SQL, Windows and Linux. Education Bachelor's Skills Django (10+ years), MySQL. (10+ years), Python (10+ years), scripting (10+ years), Shell scripting (10+ years) Additional Information Technical Skills:    Programming Languages Python, C, C++, Perl, Shell Scripting.    Operating Systems Windows [ ] Windows server 2008, Sun Solaris,IBM AIX, RHEL, Ubuntu, Fedora.  Python Libraries  Python, Django, Flask, Beautiful Soup, httplib2, Jinja2, HTML/CSS, Bootstrap, jQuery, Numpy, matPlotLib, Pickle, PySide, Scipy, wxPython, PyTables, pdb    Frameworks Django, Flask, Pyramid, Pyjamas, Jython, Angular JS, Node JS,Spring.  IDE'S Sublime Text 2, VIM, Pycharm, PyDev, NetBeans, Eclipse.  Development tools Sublime Text, Eclipse, emacs, gvim, Notepad++, OpenGrok,Jenkins, Coverity, pylint  Databases Microsoft SQL Server, Oracle, MySQL, PostgreSQL, and NoSQL, databaseMongoDB(2.6,2.4)  Version Controls cvs, svn, git, GitHub    Methodologies Agile, SCRUM and Waterfall.