JavaScript, Nodejs & HTML5 JavaScript, Nodejs &amp; HTML5 JavaScript, Nodejs & HTML5 - ArrowHead Orchards Portland, OR • Over 15 years experience as software developer and systems analyst including work on DNA sequencing, HR boarding, Problem Ticket processing and Hotel Reservation management.  • 10+ years experience as Java developer and 3+ years with JavaScript for web and client/server applications.  • Over three years experience with Web front end work utilizing HTML, AJAX, AngularJS and Bootstrap.  • Strong experience in setting up and tuning application servers such as Websphere, Tomcat  • Over 15 years experience as a database developer including work with SQL Server, DB2, MySQL, Ingres/SQL and NoSQL.  • Strong unit testing experience.  • Expertise in Agile development methodologies like Scrum  • In-depth knowledge and experience in software design methodologies, design patterns and object oriented design and open source components  • Effective communicator adept in delivering superior customer service.  • Reliable software troubleshooter and tester utilizing Test Driven Development practices and an Eclipse Junit plugin. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience JavaScript, Nodejs & HTML5 ArrowHead Orchards - Portland, OR January 2018 to Present Project: Barcode software for bin tracking.  Description: Created bin tracking software which matched Orchard barcodes to packing shed barcodes.    Responsibilities:  • Wrote barcode tracking software.    Environment: Windows, Nodejs and JavaScript. JavaScript, C#, Python & Jasmine developer Intel - Hillsboro, OR January 2017 to January 2018 Tools also included Jenkins, Nodejs, JIRA and Git.  Project: Authentication software validator for anti-viral software.  Description: Created validation test software for Intel's biometrics authentication tools and anti-viral software. Test were performed on Kabylake, Broadwell and Skylake processors utiliizing RS1, RS2 and RS3. Continuous integration was implemented using pytest, C# Testsuite and javascript technologies.    Responsibilities:  • Wrote E2E test against APIs which were utilized for sensing authentication hardware.  • Wrote unit test to verify registry and DOM changes.  • Wrote functional test to verify version changes and feature upgrades.    Environment: Protractor, Jasmine, Nodejs, C#, git, Jenkins and JavaScript.  (Authentication, present) JavaScript / Python Developer McKenzie Chase - Seattle, WA March 2015 to January 2016 Project: Multilingual component  Description: MckenzieChase(mckenziechase.com) provides tax and HR onboarding tools for many Northwest companies. Clients include Ivars, Simplot, Burgermaster, Lamb Weston and others.    Responsibilities:  • Worked on human resource onboarding tools. Input forms included W-4, I-9, background, personal information and others. Output was formatted to pdf files and sql tables.  • Integrated multilingual component to onboarding application.  • Troubleshooted bugs and session disruptions.    Environment: JavaScript, Python, Apache, AJAX, HTML, Git and Centos Linux.  (HR, Tax credits, 10 months) Python Developer University of Texas - El Paso, TX September 2014 to March 2015 Project: DNA Sequencing tool  Description: The Bioinformatics Department within the University of Texas system is in the midst of doing research in conjunction with the FDA on determining which proteins are effective in eliciting certain  responses from a bovine's immune system.    Responsibilities:  • Created online GPCR tool to perform DNA sequence analysis. DNA sequences were to be  either cut-&-pasted into a textarea or loaded as a fasta file and then processed through a 7-step analysis sequence with an additional step of analysis by Blast for comparison purposes.  • Implemented Django to integrate Python code with AJAX.    Environment: Python, JavaScript, Django, AJAX, HTML, Blasts, Biopython, Linux.  (Research, 5 months) Java Developer Choice Hotels - Phoenix, AZ May 2010 to May 2011 Project: Dashboard management and data transformation  Description: Choice Hotels manages the largest reservation system in the world regularly processing  billions of records which can be used against Dashboard metrics.    Responsibilities:  • Created ad-hoc queries utilizing Java and SQL for corporate dashboard needs.  • Performed ETL work for marketing purposes.  • Ran property coordinates against arc length formula to determine closest alternative properties.  • Converted 4gl programs to Java for reporting purposes.  (Hotel, 12 months)  Environment: Java, SQL, Unix ETL Java Developer IBM - Boulder, CO September 2006 to May 2010 Project: Metric implementation and management  Description: IBM's Global Strategies Division was responsible for Incident, Problem, Change, Availability and Asset service level reporting for clients such as Walt Disney, Carlsberg, Novartis, Cigna,  Amtrak, State of Georgia and others. Reports were generated nightly to high-light successful  operations based on metric achievements. Within GSD the ETL group was responsible for actual metric calculations and data summarization which the presentation team displayed.    Responsibilities:  • As part of an ETL unit I was required to incorporate XML, SQL, Java objects, ASCII and CSV information from client sites into ETL processes.  • Utilized this information for the creation of Incident, Problem, Change, Availability Capacity, Service Level and Asset reports.  • Implemented and updated Java, SQL and XML code for the purposes of metric calculations, statistics and reporting.  • Appended code for the processing of Problem, Incident and Change tickets.  • Utilizing cron scripts, xml files and ant builds, and created batch jobs for the bulk loading of customer data. Jobs ran nightly and implementation was precise and timely.  • In a timely fashion took customer request to troubleshoot defective data.  • Worked with Presentation, DB, Requirements and Websphere support to troubleshoot system problems  • Utilized Junit, Ant and customized sql queries for testing purposes.  • Analyzed logs for bugs and trouble-shooted found problems.    (Problem Tickets, 60 months)  Environment: Java, SQL, XML, Websphere, Linux. Java Developer IMSR Solutions - Mesa, AZ December 2003 to September 2006 Project: Shipping rates and label API.  Description: IMSR Solutions (intershipper.com) provides an API for retrieving shipping rates and labels against all major carriers. IMSR also provides web development services (CO2Science.org).    Responsibilities:  • Developed Java code for the utilization in retrieval of DHL, FEDEX and USPS API data as well as from UPS tables and spreadsheets.  • Outputted results for usage via an API  • Generated shipping rates and labels and created tracking and cancellation functions. Utilized multi-threading in these functions.  • Created a document search engine for scientific research.    Environment: Java, JSP, JavaScript, SQL, HTML, Linux, Apache/Tomcat,  XML.  (Shipping, 33 months) Self Employed Java and AngularJS February 2016 Educational Software and Course Work, Hong Kong University  • Worked on a Full Stack Certification (Bootstrap.js, Node.js, Angular.js, etc) as well as worked on educational software tools. Tools used included Java8, HTML5, MySQL and Tomcat. Education B. S. in Mathematics University of Washington M.Ed. Eastern Washington University Skills HTML (4 years), Java (7 years), JavaScript (5 years), Linux. (7 years), sql (8 years) Additional Information Technical skills  Programming Languages Python, Java, HTML, C++, C, JavaScript, PHP  Integrated Development Environments JCreator, SunStudio, RAD7, Eclipse, Brackets  Version Control Systems CVS, Clearcase, Git  Database Management Systems DB2, MS SQL Server, Ingres/SQL, Foxpro/SQL, MySQL., Informix, NoSql  Frameworks Angular, Spring, Django  Methodologies UML, IBM Service Request and requirements system  Application Servers Apache Tomcat, WebSphere  Operating Systems Linux, AIX, Windows NT, Windows  Industries Call Centers, Shipping, Medical, Education, Scientific Research, Employee Boarding  Other Microsoft Office, OpenOffice, CCS