Senior Python Developer Senior <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Python Developer Laguna Niguel, CA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Python Developer CYLANCE INC - Irvine, CA 2016 to 2017 • Worked on internal SOA applications that facilitated malware analysis.  • Added download facility to REST API that allowed researchers to retrieve malware-related data.  • Set up automatically-generated Sphinx documentation, increasing developer understanding of code.  • Improved code quality through bug fixes, pylint, and unit tests. Python Developer INTUIT - San Diego, CA 2015 to 2015 • Built numpy and scipy as wheels using pip and Jenkins that automated dependency generation.  • Integrated pylint and pep8 into Jenkins Continuous Integration builds that instituted code style.  • Modified existing code to do Splunk queries in large chunks, improving application performance.  • Improved test coverage through unit tests that increased code quality. Python Developer STROMBERG SOFTWARE CONSULTING - Downey, CA 2014 to 2014 • Wrote XML divider and modifier, enabling business-related faxes easier to process.  • Modified E-mail attachment download script that logged to MS SQL Server, increasing visibility into fax operations.  • Coded business-to-business (B2B) file upload / download / summarization project that improved  inter-business data transfer. Python Developer PROTINGENT - San Diego, CA 2012 to 2012 • Ported Backup Software Installer to SuSE Linux Enterprise Server (SLES), increasing number of operating systems supported by backup product.  • Performed bug fix for race condition resulting from code not handling restartable system calls,  improving software reliability.  • Increased maintainability of Backup Software Installer through use of pylint. System Support Representative Irvine, CA 2011 to 2011 Provided internal support on Linux systems, troubleshooting issues and ensuring continuing  operations with minimal downtime.  • Assessed and vetted internal Message Queue system in preparation for winter holidays,  facilitating ability to handle higher workload over this period.  • Diagrammed complex network-based software system using Python and Graphviz that increased  understanding of said software. Python Developer SAPIENT & CLARITY - Newport Beach, CA 2010 to 2010 Worked onsite at Research Affiliates (on contract through Clarity and Sapient) writing Python code  for portfolio design, enabling wider range of process automation than possible with prior Excel and SAS coding.  • Collaborated with project manager and end user to gather requirements. Served as project's sole  developer, driving design, implementation, and testing of high-quality CPython code that  streamlined portfolio design.  • Wrote unit, integration, and system tests. Tracked code changes, enhancements, bugs, and tasks,  and generated documentation. Systems Engineer / Devops MICROSOFT - Aliso Viejo, CA 2008 to 2009 Played key role on transitional team that facilitated Microsoft acquisition of DATAllegro in 2008.  Overcame unfamiliarity of Windows products and deftly navigated complexities of Windows  security model while working with system administration automation technologies that included  Windows Server 2008, PowerShell V2, SQL Server 2008, Active Directory, and Windows Failover  Clustering.  • Completed high-value projects that automated processes such as configuring Active Directory,  installing PowerShell and WinRM 1 machine at a time as prerequisite to other automated  processes, and installing SQL Server on n machines in parallel.  MICROSOFT ~~~~~~~~~~)  • Teamed with Q/A personnel, providing valuable support for ensuring solutions met requirements of new customer. Systems Engineer / Devops DATALLEGRO - Aliso Viejo, CA 2007 to 2008 Earned rapid promotion at startup database appliance manufacturer to design and maintain Python and Bash scripts for diverse software needs. Built parallel Ingres database installer and automated  previously ill-defined build processes. Tagged release versions entering Quality Assurance and  provided on-call support for scripting and system administration issues.  • Wrote CGI script (Galena) that presented critical information on availability, release, and upgrade  readiness of DATAllegro software.  • Developed series of quarantined source control repositories to hold Open Source code that Technical Support Representative / Devops MICROSOFT 2006 to 2007 Diagnosed, troubleshot, and resolved technical problems for internal installations and 4 customer  sites, delivering effectively in timely manner.  • Utilized Salesforce recordkeeping software to track customer contacts and service activity, and prepared documentation that helped streamline troubleshooting efforts.  • Produced copious documentation of processes using hyperlinked HTML, providing first-time  definition of numerous previously undocumented processes.  • Wrote code that facilitated comparing n machines in database cluster for inconsistencies. System Administrator (Devops), Network & Academic Computing Services UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA IRVINE - Irvine, CA 1993 to 2006 Worked within large division covering UNIX, Linux, Macintosh, and Windows platforms. Designed,  developed, and deployed applications to automate administrative functions and facilitate smooth  acquisition of system configuration data. Performed routine and advanced system administrator tasks and wrote documentation.  • Automated common processes, utilizing sh and bash scripting that streamlined system installs and  upgrades across Linux (Debian, Redhat), Solaris, IRIX, Tru64, and SunOS platforms.  • Created patch application process in Python and bash that was adopted as standard tool for updating system patches.  • Wrote BSD-compatible printsystem in Python in response to early Solaris printsystem issues,  easing printsystem replacement in future and providing users with greater printing reliability. Education Master of Science in Computer Science University of Cincinnati - Cincinnati, OH Bachelor of Science in (BS), Computer Science University of Cincinnati - Cincinnati, OH Skills BSD (10+ years), IRIX (10+ years), Linux (10+ years), printing (10+ years), Solaris (10+ years) Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/dan-stromberg Additional Information TECHNICAL PROFICIENCIES  Programming: CPython 2.x / CPython 3.x / Pypy2 / Pypy3 / Jython, sh / ksh / bash, C, FORTRAN,  PowerShell, C++, Java, Ada, Modula 2, Lisp, Prolog, Assembly (6502, 8088, 80286,  360), SQL  Platforms: Linux (Mint, Debian, Fedora, Redhat Enterprise, Ubuntu, CentOS, openSUSE, SLES),  UNIX (Solaris, AIX, IRIX, Tru64, MacOS), Android, Windows  Databases: MySQL, DATAllegro, Ingres, GDBM, NDBM, Berkeley DB, Sybase, MS SQL Server  Networking: TCP, UDP, tshark / wireshark, 10BASET, 100BASET, 1000BASET, Infiniband, Fibre  Channel  Protocols: HTTP, SMTP, POP, BSD Printing  Tools: Redis, Celery, Tornado, gevent, AWS S3, JSON, pylint, snakefood, Sphinx, epydoc,  nose, pytest, pyreverse, Subversion, Git, Git-SVN, Trac, Salesforce, Rally, JIRA,  Gitlab, Graphviz, LibreOffice, rsync