Python/Django Developer <span class="hl">Python</span>/Django <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python/Django developer Rego Park, NY • Two years hands-on experience on full stack Python3/Django2 Web development (PostgreSQL, JavaScript, JQuery, Vue.js, Bootstrap Table, HTML, CSS etc ).   • Four years hands-on full stack PHP/MySQL Web development experience in both back end and front end. (Drupal Modules, PHP, MySQL, SQL Server, JavaScript, JQuery, HTML, CSS, Photoshop etc.)  • Strong database skills in MySQL, PostgreSQL and SQL Server.  • Familiarity with Linux System, Virtual Machine, Docker Environment, git and commands.   • Experienced in MVC Design Patterns, JavaScript, JQuery, HTML, CSS and Web interface.  • Possess expertise in Object-Oriented analysis/design.   • Skilled at progressing from problem statement to well-documented designs. Experienced in software design, analysis and each stage of software engineering lifecycle.  • Hands on e-commerce website development and web services experience.  • Familiarity with CMS (Magento) and Lamp, Wamp environment.  • Agile working environment and excellent organizational and communication skills. Work Experience Python/Django Developer RD Legal Group - New York, NY April 2018 to Present ·        Independently create/build/develop the whole project of the company main business application website from the scratch, Attorney Portal System, which offers attorneys’ registration, login, completing each step of business process until they make payments and logout, finishes the whole procedures using Python 3, PostgreSQL, and Django 2 web framework. This is an ongoing big project.  ·        PostgreSQL Database and Django model design. Develop Django Rest Framework (RESTful) API, Class-based Views, forms, all kinds of queries of PostgreSQL, Django admin improvement, Upload/Download module, Payment module(Stripe), Bootstrap Table, dynamically add components using Vue.js, Mixin application, etc.  ·        Frontend design and development using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Ajax, Bootstrap, sass. PHP/MYSQL Developer and Python Developer United Business Media April 2014 to April 2018 • Develop a web application using Python 3/ Django, mostly working on the backend.  • Develop and maintain content management system (Drupal) on both the backend and frontend for high traffic websites for the company using PHP, MySQL, SQL Server, JavaScript, JQuery, HTML, and CSS.  • Develop Drupal 7 custom modules (backend) and be proficient with configuration settings such as creating content type and taxonomy term, blocks, ads, feeds, paragraph, radioactivity, features, migration, SSO, etc. on Drupal 7 admin using PHP, MySQL, and Drupal(CMS) skills.  • Create and maintain custom themes of Drupal 7 for the company public websites such as dynamic webpages, all kinds of theme templates etc. using JavaScript, JQuery, Ajax, HTML, CSS, and Photoshop.  • Setup websites environment to improve the performance of websites. Such as Varnish and memcache; and Capistrano deployment scripts.  • Develop and maintain the SSO system for multiple websites for the company.  • Work in an agile development environment and use Git version control code system daily.  • Be knowledgeable for Drupal 8. PHP and MySQL Lamp Backend Developer Wireless Network Group (WNG) Inc October 2012 to October 2013 for developing and maintaining website of the company, which is a complex information management system including ticket issuing and tracking for field projects; process control; security alert; invoice; financial reporting; etc. using MVC framework. This website actively used by more than 300 persons including the employees and clients.  • Designed, developed, troubleshooted, debugged, and implemented software code for components of the website.  • Designed, maintained, backuped and recovering MySQL Database, writing stored procedure and bulk upload data into database.  • Wrote queries for data transactions based on events.  • Integrated easy UI datagrid and open flash chart into System.  • Applied Web interface Front End Web technology such as JavaScript, JQuery, Ajax, Html, and CSS.  • Analyzed the data and generate reports of some formats such as Excel and PDF and chart. PHP/MySQL Developer C.D.EASTMAN CORP, NY - New York, NY June 2011 to September 2012 • Developed and maintained the website from the scratch for the company independently using Lamp, PHP5, JavaScript, JQuery, Html, and CSS.  • Developed a web based company internal order information management system independently from the scratch including editable table grid, search, user account management, email management, message board, data analysis reports, uploading images, downloading some format report, etc. using PHP5, MySQL5, Apache, JavaScript, Html, Ajax, Jquery, CSS. Adaptive iSolution Inc January 2009 to February 2011 • Developed full-fledged e-Commerce applications using PHP5 and MySQL5. Designed comprehensive data schemes for inventory management and integrated several online payment methods like Authorize.net, PayPal, Google checkout under environment of Apache+MySQL5+PHP5.  • Built interfaces to maximize the user's shopping experience using JavaScript, HTML and CSS.  • Developed a flexible reporting tool using PHP5 and MySQL5. Reports are defined by interactive Web interfaces, and stored in HTML, PDF, and XML. The tool has been successfully deployed for several clients.  • Developed Customer Resource Management application using PHP5 and MySQL5.  • Designed a website to sell jewelry using CMS like Magento. China Academy of Science and Technology of Machinery - Beijing, CN July 2000 to July 2005 Beijing China July 2000 - July 2005    • Developed and maintained an internal web based information sharing system, using PHP and SQL Server. Users can post, read, search, and comments on articles. The system was successfully deployed and in active use across multiple divisions.  • Developed application package in the AutoCAD using ADS (AutoCAD Development System) and C language for "Process Design of Steel Casting".  • Worked closely with QA engineers to create test cases, test new features and regression testing. Detected the deep cause of several dozens of software bugs and provided strategic fixes.  • Designed and conducted a national wide market survey of Programmable Logic Controller Applications in the manufacturing industry. Analyzed the survey data using Cluster Analysis methodology and SPSS software to derive the usability and the usage distribution among industries and across geographic areas. Education Master of Science in Industrial and Systems Engineering Florida International University Master of Science and Bachelor of Science in Materials Engineering in Materials Engineering Shandong University - Jinan, CN Skills HTML (9 years), JAVASCRIPT (9 years), PHP (10+ years), CSS (9 years), SQL SERVER (9 years), Python, Django Additional Information Computer Skills:    • Web Technologies: Python/Django, PHP, JavaScript, JQuery, Ajax, HTML, CSS, SASS, , , Drupal, Laravel  • Databases: MySQL, PostgreSQL, SQL Server, Oracle, Access  • Content Management System (CMS): Drupal, Magento.  • Programming Languages: PHP, VB, VBA, C, C++  • Software Tools: Dreamweaver, Photoshop, Excel, Arena, ERP, Matlab, SAS, Solver, SPSS, S-Plus,