Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer Jacksonville, FL ? 5 years of experience as a Python Developer, proficient coder in multiple languages and frameworks like AWS, Django and Flask.  ? Hands on experience in data processing automation using Python.  ? Familiar with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services.  ? Extensive knowledge in MySQL and Oracle database systems.  ? Hands on experience in SQL, PL/SQL and writing stored procedures.  ? Expertise in Networking (TCP/IP, Ethernet), FTP, NFS, NIS, DNS, DHCP and RAID levels.  ? Experienced in working with different teams such as Network Eng., Database team and application teams to resolve the issues and provide Customer Satisfaction.  ? Designed and developed embedded applications for the Network Element, in C and Python programming.  ? Implemented EC2 backup strategies by creating EBS snapshots and attaching the volume to EC2 instances.  ? Good Knowledge in Object Oriented Concepts, Data Structures and Design patterns.  ? Web development using Python, Django and Flask.  ? Driven to architect Big Data solutions on multiple platforms using data analytics.  ? Develop ETL packages using SSIS to insert datasets to SQL server and generate project reports using SSRS and SQL.  ? Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache.  ? Experience in developing front-end applications using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery and Ajax.  ? Worked on various applications using python integrated IDEs Eclipse, PyCharm, NetBeans and sublime Text.  ? Experience in Implementation of SOAP web service.  ? Experience in creating Network Security from Scratch.  ? Developed various Python scripts to generate reports, send FIX messages (FIX Simulator), SOAP requests, TCP/IP programming and multiprocessing jobs.  ? Working knowledge of C and C++ languages including STL, threads, templates, dynamic polymorphism and other OO concepts.  ? Proficient in developing complex SQL queries, Stored Procedures, Functions, Packages along with performing DDL and DML operations on the database.  ? Hands on Experience in Data mining and Data warehousing using ETL Tools and Proficient in Building reports and dashboards in Tableau (BI Tool).  ? Excellent working knowledge in UNIX and Linux shell environments using command line utilities.  ? Application Stress tester, created and stress tested stand-alone, web-applications and generated graph reports.  ? Hands on experience working in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python) Architecture.  ? Participated in all phases of the System Development Life Cycle Analysis (SDLC).  ? Experience working in both waterfall and Agile software methodologies.  ? Experience in using JIRA and FogBugz bug tracking tools.  ? Familiarity with development best practices such as code reviews, unit testing, system integration testing (SIT) and user acceptance testing(UAT).  ? Experience in writing unit tests using Pytest, nose and mock.  ? Highly motivated, quality minded developer, with proven ability to deliver applications against tight deadlines.  ? Excellent debugging, problem solving, optimization and testing skills. Work Experience Python Developer BCBS - Jacksonville, FL December 2016 to December 2017 Responsibilities:    ? Worked on the project in various phases by developing the entire application with the help of other analyst.  ? Good understanding of NoSQL databases such as MongoDB, Datastax, Redis and Apache Cassandra.  ? Performed web testing and automated testing using Selenium in the test environment and opened bugs in the bug tracking tool.  ? Designed data management system using MySQL.  ? Played a key role in a department wide transition from Subversion to Git, which resulted in an increase in efficiency for the development community.  ? Web services and Amazon Web services (AWS).  ? Design EC2 instance architecture to meet high availability application architecture and security parameters.  ? Expertise in Ec2 container service (ECS) and Dockers engine to deploy the micro services-oriented environments for scalable applications.  ? Worked with ansible to document application dependencies into version control.  ? Configured Microsoft Active Directory Server and Microsoft Domain Controller.  ? Worked with configuration management tools like Puppet, Chef and Salt.  ? Expertise in automation using Salt Stack.  ? Participated in developing a job scheduler with RabbitMQ to make sure scripts were run to pull and populate data as soon as the data became available.  ? Worked with ORM web framework to access data from relational Database  ? Developed GUI HTML, XHTML, AJAX, SaaS, CSS 5 and JavaScript (jQuery).  ? Familiar with JSON based also Used Django APIs for database access.  ? Working knowledge of Amazon Redshift as a DBA.  ? Worked on MPP data warehousing (e.g. Redshift) Cloud ETL tools (e.g. AWS data pipeline).  ? Writing SOAP and RESTFul web services, in house ESB for a web Claims application (Spring MVC, AngularJS, SOAPUI, Mockito, JSON, Build Forge).  ? Worked on python based test frameworks and test driven development with automation tools.  ? As a Full Stack Developer actively involved in Business Layer and Data Management components of this multi-tiered web based system over J2EE architecture.  ? Design and develop Restful APIs that will be utilized in AngularJS components  ? Involved in Developing a RESTFul API service using Python Flask framework.  ? Worked on a resulting report of the application and Tableau reports.  ? Worked on Jenkins continuous integration tool for deployment of project.  ? Participated in Unit testing/ Test driven Development (TDD) and Load Testing.  ? Install and Configure Linux with Apache.  ? Experience in working on OpenStack components along with Salesforce CRM (SAAS, PAAS).  Environment: Python, JavaScript, Linux, windows, Django, Framework, Selenium, MongoDB, Datastax, Salesforce CRM, GUI HTML, XHTML, AJAX, SaaS, CSS, SQL, MySQL, LAMP, jQuery, AIX, Solaris, Jenkins, Apache web server, Configuration Management tools (Chef, Puppet and Salt). Python Developer C Spire Wireless - Ridgeland, MS April 2014 to November 2016 Responsibilities:    ? Participated in the complete SDLC process and used PHP to develop website functionality.  ? Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  ? Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  ? Designed and developed data management system using MySQL. Built application logic using Python 2.7.  ? Used Django APIs for database access.  ? Maintained Oracle, and PostgreSQL DB's.  ? Wrote multiple programs in Python to monitor virtual machine usage data using VMWare API calls.  ? Used Python to extract weekly availability information from XML files.  ? Expertise in Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) and its related technologies like Web Services, BPEL, WSDL, SOAP 1.1, XML, XSD, XSLT etc.  ? Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  ? Developed and designed an API (RESTful Web Service) for the company's website.  ? Participated in requirement gathering and worked closely with the architect in designing and modeling.  ? Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures on MySQL.  ? Developed shopping cart for Library and integrated web services to access the payment (E-commerce).  ? Designed and developed a horizontally scalable APIs using Python Flask.  ? Designed Cassandra schema for the APIs.  Environment: Python, Django, JavaScript, AJAX, HTML, XHTML, BPEL, WSDL, SOAP, XML, XSD, XSLT, Jenkins, CSS, SQL, MySQL, LAMP, jQuery, Apache web server. Software Developer in Python Accel Frontline - Bengaluru, Karnataka January 2013 to March 2014 India.  Responsibilities:    ? Worked with the stakeholders, gathered requirements and developed high level design documents.  ? Developed UI using HTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript and jQuery.  ? Re-engineered various modules for implementing changes and creating efficient system.  ? Designed and developed components using Python.  ? Implemented database access using Django ORM.  ? Used MySQL as backend database and MySQL dB of python as database connector to interact with MySQL server.  ? Used Restful APIs to access data from different suppliers.  ? Maintained and supported the Python scripts.  ? Participate in Test Plan reviews.  ? Create and review manual test cases.  ? Develop automated test cases using in house automation tools (Linux, Shell & Python).  ? Actively participate in testing, execution, deployment and monitoring.  ? Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing of documents, data exchange and business logic implementation between servers.  ? Used Restful API's to gather network traffic data from Servers.  ? Supported Apache web server on Linux Platform.  ? Developed and executed User Acceptance Testing portion of test plan.  ? Debug and Troubleshoot issues observed in the software.    Environment: Python, C++, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, jQuery, MySQL, Shell Scripting, Unix and Linux. Education Bachelor's in Electrical & Electronics in Electrical & Electronics University of Michigan - Kakinada, Andhra Pradesh Skills AJAX (4 years), CSS (4 years), Django (4 years), HTML (4 years), JavaScript (4 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Programming Languages Python, C, C++, SQL/PLSQL, UNIX, Bash shell scripting.  Operating Systems Windows, UNIX, Linux and Mac OS X  Python Libraries  Django, Flask, requests, Pytest, mock, httplib2, Jinja2, HTML/CSS, Bootstrap, Numpy, matPlotLib, Pickle, PySide, wxPython, PyTables.    IDE Platforms Eclipse, PyCharm, Sublime text, NetBeans.  Web Programming JavaScript, CSS, jQuery and AJAX  Databases Microsoft SQL Server, Oracle, MySQL, PostgreSQL and MongoDB  Version Controls Subversion, GitHub and Mercurial  Methodologies Agile, SCRUM, Waterfall, SDLC and TDD.