Python Developer/Analyst <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span>/Analyst Python Developer/Analyst Richmond, VA •4+ years of experience as a Web/Application Developer and coding with analytical programming usingPython, Django, C++.  • Experienced with full software development life-cycle, architecting scalable platforms, object oriented programming, database design and agile methodologies  • Experienced in MVW frameworks like Django, Angular JS, Java Script, J Query and Node js.  • Expert knowledge of and experience in Object oriented Design and Programming concepts.  • Exposed JIRA, Confluence, Bitbucket, HANA, SAP Application Studio & hybris.  • Experience object oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, C++ and PHP.  • Experienced in WAMP (Windows Apache, MYSQL, Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, Python/PHP) Architecture.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, PHP, C++, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, , JavaScript and JQuery.  • Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Experience in developing web-based applications using Python 2.7/2.6, Django 1.4/1.3, PHP, Angular JS, VB, C++, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Knowledge of the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), Agile and Waterfall Methodologies.  • Expertize in designing, developing middleware components for software in C/C++ using STL, multithreading, data structures, and design patterns.  • Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Familiar with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services.  • Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database  • Worked in agile and waterfall methodologies with high quality deliverables delivered on-time.  • Maintained detailed documentation and architectural solutions in IT infrastructure and sales systems.  • Experience with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins  Authorized to work in the US for any employer Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer/Analyst Capital One Bank - Richmond, VA June 2014 to Present Description: Developed a web based application using python to automate the ATM cash management process. I had developed an application that fetches the reports and other data from the vendors websites (total of different 5 vendors) and fill that data into the respective tables into the database. Analysts used that data to generate report and other stuff. Responsibilities:  • Worked alone on the project from gather requirement developing the entire application, with help from other analyst.  • Wrote python routines to log into the websites and fetch data for selected options.  • Used python modules such as requests, urllib, urllib2 for web crawling.  • Used other packages such as Beautiful soup for data parsing.  • Worked on writing and as well as read data from csv and excel file formats.  • Worked on a resulting reports of the application and Tableau reports.  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  • I have used AWS (Amazon Web services) in Redshift, EmR for improved efficiency of storage.  • Wrote AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Datatables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings.  • Used the Django Framework to develop the application.  • Used Django APIs for database access.  • UIS system design ( Python Object Oriented Design approach, developing various modules/packages/utilities, e.g.: Cryptography - Encryption/Hashing, Foundation Utilities, Persona management, error/exception management etc.)  • Performed QA testing on the application.  • Held meetings with client and worked all alone for the entire project with limited help from the client.  Environment: Python 2.7, Sypder (IDE), Windows 7, Terdata, Requests, urllib, urllib2, Beautifulsoup. Python developer Motorola Mobility - Sunnyvale, CA June 2013 to April 2014 Description: Insight system was a system developed to help costumers understand the performance of the machinery. A graphical notation of the performance of turbines is given to the costumers on their mobile application and alert is raised if the performance drops down or any break down may happen based on the various other performance tracking as well.  Responsibilities:  • Worked in stages such as analysis and design, development, testing and debugging.  • Written Servlet and deployed them on IBM WebSphere Application server.  • Responsible for user validations on client side as well as server side.  • Development of the Java classes to be used in JSP and Servlets.  • Worked extensively on the Python based proprietary framework Quartz  • Created and executed test plans using PyUnit.  • Performed efficient delivery of code based on principles of Test Driven Development(TDD) and continuous integration to keep in line with Agile Software Methodology principles.  • Wrote programs for performance calculations using Numpy and sqlalchemy.  • Worked on CSV files while trying to get input from the MySQL database.  • Implemented the presentation layer with HTML, DHTML, Ajax, CSS and JavaScript.  • Used Python, Perl, CGI, JQuery, JavaScript and JSON at the front end.  • Worked with the testing team for resolving bugs.  • Closely involved in performance evaluation and User Acceptance Test.  Environment: Python 2.7, Windows, MySQL and python libraries such as Numpy, sqlalchemy, Mysql DB. Python/Web Developer Jefferies Group - Jersey City, NJ July 2011 to May 2013 Responsibilities:  • Participated in the complete SDLC process and used PHP to develop website functionality.  • Coding in LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and PHP) environment.  • Built application logic using Python 2.7.  • Used the Django Framework to develop the application.  • Used Django APIs for database access.  • Used Python to extract weekly hotel availability information from XML files.  • Used standard Python modules e.g. csv, robotparser, itertools, pickle, jinja2, lxml for development.  • Created modules to transform incoming XML trade data into trade objects, parse trade data and create outbound FPML (Financial Products Markup Language) sent to DTCC repositories.  • Implemented and used custom built query script to store, index and read large sets of Object data (like MongoDb)  • Used Web Services to get travel destination data and rates.  • Participated in requirement gathering and worked closely with the architect in designing and modeling.  • Developed shopping cart for Library and integrated web services to access the payment (E-commerce)    Environment: Python 2.6/2.7, JavaScript, Django Framework 1.3, CSS, SQL, MySQL, LAMP, JQuery, Adobe Dreamweaver, Apache web server.    Prefered Skills:  Primary Languages: Python  Python Automation Testing: UnitTest, Nose  Python Packages: JSON, CSV, XML, XLS  Python Framework: Django and Flask  Source version Control: GIT  Database: Sqlite3, IBM DB2, MongoDB  Operating System: Linux (Ubuntu), Apple Mac (Leopard, Lion, Mountain), IBM System I  Continuous Integration/Deployment: Jenkins  Text Editor/IDE: Sublime Text2, PyCharm, Eclipse PyDev  Software Development Lifecycle: Agile Methodology, Scrum framework.  Ticketing System: BMC Remedy, JIRA