Software Developer, US based startup Software <span class="hl">Developer</span>, US based startup Software Developer Zaslavl Software developer with more than 12 years of industry experience with Python, C++ and Android.  Passionate about learning new things, test driven development and quality improvement through the effective use of knowledge, information and communication. Has interest and experience in team management. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Software Developer, US based startup January 2014 to Present contract job, remote  Startup develops a car parking service.  My first responsibility is to design a schema for MongoDB and build Rest Api level to access service. I implemented rest api level using Flask. With the help of unittests for all backend api I managed to archive easy codebase support and bug fixing. Recently, server side has been switched to Ngnix to gain better scalability of the system. Another task I work on is administrator interface for the system. I have created basic web UI using Flask as page generator and JavaScript to consume service Rest API. I have built a script using Spark to fetch realtime information about requests that runs on system and added basic representation of requests statistics in administrator interface using D3D.js. I developed a set of acceptance tests to check main chains of execution to verify quality of recent commits to backend side. That makes me sure that backend part of the system is stable after recent modifications and it prevents a broken version releasing. Moreover I work on Android mobile client of the system that consumes backend rest api. This task gives me a fresh look on rest api designed by me and helps me to improve it. Senior Python Developer Mobsafety March 2013 to September 2013 contract job, remote  Company provides a Mobile Device Management solution for iOS and Android devices.  I received great experience in development using Python and management a team of four developers. My responsibility was to take care about backend part of the project that runs as WSGI handler using Flask. To meet strict deadlines I created, set priorities, checked how tasks were accomplished. Agile scrum methodology with two weeks iteration was used to organize working flow. Unittests were used to gain system stability. MongoDB was used as a database. Tasks were managed via Jira. Bamboo server was used as continuous integration platform. Backend services were deployed in Amazon cloud using Juju deployment tool. Python Developer LatamIQ July 2012 to February 2013 contract job, remote  Company service was to grab and analyze economic indexes. My responsibility was to build set of services at backend that will help to analyze, predict flows of economical indexes using several metrics. Technologies used: Python, MySQL, TDD. Django Python Developer Keeyword.com September 2011 to June 2012 contract job, remote  Main focus of the company is to build tools to help people do keyword research - find right keywords for site to attract more users. When I join company, my first task was to optimize backend of the system to allow to store at least 500k of keywords in one project and provide fast access to to that data.  Django was used to generate pages, main processing logic was moved to Celery jobs. Redist was used for celery cache backed, PostgreSQL as a database. I gained great experience in optimizing database schema to store and fast access to keywords. Also I received experience in JavaScript development, because I needed to fix bugs on client side of the project. C Developer, Visionica Python/C March 2008 to June 2011 contract job, remote  I developed server side components for IP cameras recording system on Python. I stored project data in MySQL database, backend run on Ubuntu. My main responsibility was to take care about backend scripts to maintain recordings from IP cameras. I took part in development of client side application for this system written in QT. During work for this company I received experience in running Python scripts on embedded devices, there was a project that required to run our tools on NAS with arm processor. I had to cross-compile Python to run it on SoC and rewrote some parts of our system to run effectively on low resources system. C/ Python/C++/Game Mods Developer Python/C May 2007 to March 2008 contract job, remote  I developed several mods to control game flow for Q4, HL family, HL2 family, COD 1, COD2, UT2004  Also I developed Linux Kernel Module on C and user mode management application on Python to protect server side components. LKM was an extension for Netfilter framework that allowed/blocked incoming connections to a host. User mode application was a service that received a policy from backend and managed LKM. Used version control cvs. C++ Developer Check Point Belrus January 2005 to August 2007 I was involved in a project that was connected with Linux Kernel module development. I closely worked with Linux kernel debugging. I debugged my project in UML environment using gdb. I received a great experience in supporting and extending with new features multilevel security application for Win32 OS using C/C++. During my work for this company I improved my knowledge of low level debugging, crash dump analysis, support build verify process. Used version control cvs. Bugzilla was used for bugs management. driver management application, LSP provider and user interface part Intetics Company September 2003 to December 2004 2003.09 - 2004.12  My work dealt with the development of the system level security application for Win32 OS. The main development tool used in this project was MSVC 6.0. The product consisted of 4 main parts: network driver, driver management application, LSP provider and user interface part. At first my main task was to develop and support driver management application plug-in, user interface and communication mechanism between LSP provider and driver. For debugging I used standard MSVC debugger and SoftICE for emergent cases. Developer Sacrament Company July 2002 to September 2003 The company developed Text-to-Speech(TTS) engine for Russian and English language. My work was related to the intonation block of the acoustic module. The development was done using C++. I ported TTS modules from Win32 to WinCE. Education security and artificial intelligence Belarusian State University of Informatics and Radioelectronics 1998 to 2003 Additional Information Technical Skills  Languages: Python, C++, Java, JavaScript  Database Platforms: MongoDB, MySql, PostgreSQL  Development Tools: PyCharm, Emacs, AndroidStudio, Git, CVS, Celery, D3D.js, Bamboo, Jira, Asana, Apache, Ngnix, Spark, MSVC++ 6.0, QT, Django, Flask, RabbitMQ  Methodologies: Test Driven Development, Scrum, XP  OS: Linux(Ubuntu), Android, Windows    Recommendations  Please, visit my LinkedIn page to check recommendations from my previous employers http://www.linkedin.com/in/dmoroz/