Job Seeker Edison, NJ • A Software Developer with over 15+ years' experience.  • Background includes full life cycle development using Python ,Java , Django and AngularJS, ReactJS , Cloud computing AWS. Python,Shell script, AWK, Oracle (SQL, PL/SQL),Sybase • Trained in Python API using SciKit-Learn, various DataScience algorithms.  • Excellent Web based application development using REST/JSON web services using Spring Boot, Spring MVC and Spring Core.  • Ability to interact with End users, Managers and Technical Personnel, self-motivated, quick learner and team player with excellent communication skills and Interpersonal Skills.  • Experience working with agile development process.  • Proven Problem-Solving and support, analytical Skills programming skills with diverse software experience and provided post-implementation support enhancements and modifications.  • Excellent skills in understanding business needs and converting them into technical solutions.  • Proficient, dynamic and result oriented team player with excellent analytical and interpersonal skills used to coordinate multi-disciplinary teams and clients and consistently motivated toward success and completion of projects Work Experience RBC Capital Markets February 2018 to Present • Designed and developed Bond portfolio service using Django Micro services and Solace Messaging.  • Designed and developed various components in Bond portfolio service.  • Setup the Unix environment for the whole group.  • Designed and developed Python Commons API • Used Cloud Computing with AWS ,EC2, and SQS • Worked with ReactJS , WebPack and AGgrid and Node JS for BondPortfolio UI screens  Environment: Core Python2.7, Django, Solace, Maven, MS SQL Server ,Unix,AWS, Jenkins, ReactJS, NodeJS , Nexus. Python Consultant BGC Partners March 2017 to November 2017 MIFID-II  InstrumentLite Service is a server which looks up instruments in MongoDb collection and Responds if the instrument is there or else it will lookup Unavista Collection and then if not found it will Create the ISIN by contacting a third party webservice called ANNA.  Python Consultant 03/17 - 11/2017 • Designed and Developed Instrument LiteBatch using core Python and multithreading from scratch.  • Used executor thread pool and P2P messaging using custom in house EAPI to responses.  • Undertook lead role in foreseeing the project completion from start to finish.  • Performed requirement analysis of the MiFID instrument for Instrument Service.  • Designed and developed schema changes for MIFID project using JSON schema.  • Designed and developed API for JSON using schema to Pojo generator.  • Used Mongo DB for database, performed many mongo queries and analysis.  • Designed and developed data load from Unavista files to mongo db.  • Designed and developed ANNA interface to retrieve ISIN.  • Used AWS Cloud Computing with EC2 and SQS.  • Used Jenkins for Continuous Integration.    Environment: Python2.7, Multithreading, AWS ,Spring core, solace ,Rest, Maven, Sybase ,Mongo Db ,Unix, Jenkins. Python Developer Credit Suisse - New York, NY August 2015 to February 2017 New York, NY 08/15- 02/17  DSL/Scenarios  Scenarios service provides various webservices CRUD operations for collecting the schnarios data as part of CCAR implementation project, this service collects various RISKFormat's scenarios which the user can enter.  Python Developer • Designed and Developed Scenarios Service Project using Python and AngularJS • Developed various Services using RestFull Web services.  • Provided Production Support to DSL Project • Designed and developed Query Interface in DSL Project developing across all layers of DSL.  • Integrated Hazelcast into the Scenarios Project.  • Designed and developed Stored procedures for DSL project for Query Interface.  • Designed and developed P&L Attribution Project using Big Data, Spark using RDD's.  • Used Jenkins for Continuous Integration.    Environment: Python2.7, Oracle 11g ,PLSQL , Spring Boot, Maven ,Spark, Hadoop, Cloudera , ,SVN , IntelliJ15 ,Unix, Jenkins. Core Java Developer Citigroup - Township of Warren, NJ June 2012 to August 2015 Warren, NJ 06/12- 8/15  AMC/eSales eSales is an application through which users can create Legal Entity accounts, which are uniquely identified. The application checks OFAC/BADI requirements and many other business requirements before creating an account. the application provides feeds of the account data to various downstream teams.  Core Java Developer • Developed OFAC/BADI reengineering project in Citi environment, which saved Citigroup $200,000/Month.  • Developed NAFBatch process sends CPI messages (JMS) to CPI and IMS files to IMS and tar file to MSSB.  • Designed and developed Broadridge Gateway which sends account updates, new account and settlement instructions information to Broadridge.  • Designed and developed Broadridge functionality web pages using jsp, spring in eSales with complete use case across all layers from front end to stored procedures in Sybase.  • Provided production support for eSales project solving number of issues in eSales.  • Designed and developed Cosine project across all layers for the complete use case.  • Designed and developed broadscope changes across all layers of the use case • Used autosys, Spring, core java multithreading, MQ series, Web services, Citi xenv , sed, awk. shell scripts.  • Provided production fix in c++ for ccs project and mentored offshore tem on acctconv project.  • Provided documentation for c project for acctdds project by reading the legacy code.  • Provided production fix for IMS Firm account Project using Mule ESb and TIBCo JMS.  • Provided production fix for Major issue Corba Exception for eSales project.  • Migrated c++ application acctdist from Forte 7 to Forte 11.0 and again to 12.3.  • Successfully migrated many c++ applications to Solaris 10 from Solaris 8.0.  • Successfully enhanced Account conversion batch process with changes from upstream to the data feed using perl scripts , shell scripts and java • Successfully migrated many legacy c++ applications by removing End Of Life libraries and making appropriate code changes with new libraries.    Environment: JDK1.6.0, Sybase , Java concurrency, MQ Series ,Tibco EMS, JMS, Maven ,Weblogic 9.0, SVN , Unix. Team Lead/Java Developer Javelin Capital Markets - New York, NY April 2011 to April 2012 • Designed and developed matching engine from scratch using core java programming.  • Designed and developed streaming Api using JMS and java threads for quote publishing.  • Used Ion Marketview api for sending trade data to wellsfargo.  • Played team Lead role for Offshore team developers with solutions in Java Swing GUI and JMS.  • Improved the performance of the Gui application in Java Swing.  • Developed prototype of matching engine and integrated the matching engine with existing application.  • Worked with Hibernate3.x and spring2.x to develop a prototype for alternate solution.  • Provided architecture for alternate solutions using Fix engine implementation.    Environment: JDK1.6.0, Sql server 2010, Java Threads, Tibco EMS,JMS, Java Swing, python, Ant,Weblogic 9.0,EJB, SVN , Eclipse 3.2, Linux 4. Core Java Developer TRADE - New York, NY January 2009 to March 2011 Designed and developed many Gateway Applications  Environment: JDK1.5.0, Sybase 11, Oracle, SQL, Java Threads, Java Swing, Ant,Maven, SVN , Clearcase ,C++, Rougewave, Makefiles, shell scripts,Apache CXF, Webservices, Perl scripts, Eclipse 3.2, Linux 2.3, Solaris10/9. Core Java Developer MerrylLynch April 2007 to August 2008 Designed and developed enhancement's in GDFS for Trade Service, Loanet Process, Base Rates, Sales Users and floaters involving Java Swing, Web Start Stateless Session Beans (EJB), Message Driven Beans, JMS, TIBCO ESB, MQ Series, and Hibernate3.0.  Environment: JDK1.4.2_13,Java Web Start, JMS,TIBCO EMS,MQ-series, MDB, EJB, Hibernate, Oracle, SQL, Java Threads, Java Swing, CVS, JAXB, Bash shell scripts, XDoclet, XML, JProbe, WebSphere5.0 App-server, Perl scripts, IntelliJ IDEA5.5,Linux. Core Java Developer ESpeed - New York, NY December 2006 to April 2007 Designed and developed Forex UBS Gateway Component using Fx2B API and Espeed API.  Environment: JDK1.5.7, Eclipse3.2, Java Swing, Multithreading, Core Java, Tibco Rendezvous7.5.2, Sun Solaris10, Perl, Perforce. Java Developer/Lead Architect DTCC, NY January 2006 to December 2006 • Involved in design and development of tools which replace AZN Security with J2ee Security.  • Provided Architectural solution for the application using Spring, IBatis developed sample prototype document for other developers.  Environment: JIBM RAD6.0,Windows2000,Sun Solaris10.0,JDK1.4.2,Sybase11,PVCS Version Control, Bash Shell, Webservices, XML Log4j,IBM Tivoli for Security,Struts1.28,Spring.    Comstock- New York, NY 01/05-11/05  CDD is a market data analysis tool for Comstock clients , This Product various front end screens for displaying market data, Charting Tools , Portfolio management.  Responsibilities • Involved in design and Development of Real Time Feeds to different Ticker Plants like Reuters.  • Involved in design of Back end system for Feeds using Multithreading and Socket programming.  • Worked with bash shell script worked with AWK for text processing.  • Provided production support involving TCP/IP troubleshooting.  Environment: Eclipse3.1, jdk1.4.2, Linux, CVS Version Control, Bash Shell, AWK, XML, Log4j. Team Lead Bankers Systems - Saint Cloud, MN May 2003 to December 2004 Environment: Java J2EE (JSP, JNDI) Struts1.1B,Java swing1.4, Web sphere Studio 5.0,Html, JavaScript, CSS, XML, Xerces parser, Siteminder API, VSS, Windows NT, Oracle8.1.1.7. Java Developer Target - Minneapolis, MN February 2002 to May 2003 Environment: Java J2EE (JSP, JNDI) Struts1.1B, Web sphere Studio 4.02/4.03/5.0,Html, JavaScript, CSS, Windows NT, Oracle8.1.1.7, CVS-Version Control, CVS Administration.    DCRisk Analysis Reengineering  Java Developer.  Environment: Java J2EE (JSP, JNDI) Struts1.1B, Web sphere Studio 4.02, Html, JavaScript, CSS Windows NT, Oracle8.0, CVS-Version Control, CVS Administration. Ameren Energy - St. Louis, MO January 2001 to February 2002 GATOR (Generating Asset Tracking and Optimization Resource)  The project is forecasting software, which takes the problems reported by the Plant personnel  These problems are typical practical problems, which affect the generation of power. The decision's based on the reported problems; Ameren Energy and ESO use the decisions made for better trading of energy.  Environment: Microsoft Java, VJ++6.0, XSL, XML, HTML, VisualInterDev6.0, MKS Source Integrity, JavaScript, Windows NT, Oracle8.0 Four-Soft - Hyderabad, Telangana January 2000 to December 2000 Environment: 2.0,Windows98,Oracle8/0,Ejb1.1,Jsp,PramatiStudio/Server/Weblogic5.1,,Jdbc, Xml4j, Xml, Xsl, Visual Source Safe 5.0, Jbuilder3.5 Inova Solutions - Hyderabad, Telangana June 1999 to December 1999 Environment: Windows NT, Jave2.0, VC++6.0, Jdbc Oracle8.0, Sql, IBM xml parser for java xml4j, Xml4c (IBM xml parser for c++), Linux, Apache Web Server, Enhydra, (MSXML), Xml, Xsl, Visual Source Safe5.0. Reliable Web Solutions - Hyderabad, Telangana October 1998 to June 1999 Environment: Windows NT, Java2.0,FTP,SMTP, Microsoft Exchange Server, IIS , Netscape Messaging Server, Apache Tomcat, Java-Swing,Jbuilder3.5.    Web Manage Technologies- Hyderabad, India 10/97-10/98 Environment: Windows NT, Java1.1.7B, Oracle 7.3, XML, Tomcat3.0, Sybase10, SQL, JFC-Swing, Jbuilder3.0, HTML and JDBC. CS Software Solutions - Hyderabad, Telangana February 1997 to September 1997 Worked on projects involving the server side java technologies.  Environment: Cgi-Perl, Apache Tomcat, JavaScript, HTML, Oracle7.X, and Sql. Education B.Tech Indian Institute of Technology (Madras) - Chennai, Tamil Nadu M.Tech Indian Institute of Technology (Madras) - Chennai, Tamil Nadu Skills Java (10+ years), perl (7 years), SQL (7 years), Subversion (8 years), XML (7 years)