Python/ETL Developer <span class="hl">Python</span>/ETL <span class="hl">Developer</span> ETL Developer - Python Germantown, MD Seeking a Sr. Python Developer /or Text Analytics Programming Analyst/or Data Scientist/or Sr. Data Analyst position where extensive experience will be further developed and utilized. Work Experience Python/ETL Developer inodeink corporation May 2018 to Present Inode ink Corporation.  Working at U.S. Security and Exchange Commission (SEC) EDGAR support team in Washington DC.    * Support economic subject matter expertise, analytical tool development, and other analytical data services to support our customer on site in Washington D.C.    * Gather and process raw data at scale (including writing scripts), as well as process structured/unstructured data into a form suitable for analysis.  * Hands-on experience with Data modeling & Data Mapping and Data validation.  * Work in UNIX, LINUX environment and cross-function in a high-paced and fluid Agile team.  * Experience in design/architect and implement business data modules and end to end automation complex workflow using Python, UNIX/LINUX shell scripting, XML Schema, XML parsing, Oracle, SQL, PL/SQL and Netezza etc.  * Execute complex SQL queries of large Oracle table(s) efficiently.  * Documentation for project design, development, deployment, operational guide, and Hand Over documents Python/SAS Developer The Oakleaf Group LLC January 2018 to April 2018 The Oakleaf Group LLC, Working at Fannie Mae    * Worked on a project to automate SAS applications relating to calculation of earnings at risk. Provided design, development, implementation, documentation, validation and testing support for the business process, system requirements and functionalities needed.  * Experienced in enhancing and maintaining a complex Python framework which automates a complex SAS-based application workflow.  * Working in UNIX, LINUX/SASGrid environment and cross-functional in a high-paced and fluid Agile team.  * Experienced in building frameworks, business data module and automating complex workflow using Python, SAS, SASGrid, UNIX/LINUX shell scripting, XML Schema, XML parsing, Autosys, Oracle, SQL, and Netezza etc. Programmer Analyst CyberData Technologies Inc - Silver Spring, MD January 2015 to October 2017 * Responsible for design/development/enhancement of new or existing applications /boards /dashboards between the WebEOC system (a Crisis Information Management System) with SQL, JavaScript, HTML, and CSS etc., delivery to the system production and demonstration to the end users.  * Responsible for ENS (Emergency Notification System) migration, dealing with big data, creating data modeling, data architecting, integrating to automating operational workflows, and implementing the data processing with multi-technology and cross functionality solution, storing and distributing data. Managed the entire life cycle of a solution. Hands-on programming in Python with NLP, JSON, APIs, SAS, curl, SFTP etc. to create a variety of packages of scripts for ENS migration, for ENS updating/maintenance and implementing ETL with task automation on a weekly basis, as well as for a variety of customer needs and requirements. Experience in developing a variety of program algorithms for data mining, data mapping, statistics and data reduction from different data sources, as well as for data analysis, data trouble-shooting, and providing resolutions.  * Conducted system data analysis and data quality assurance. Delivered recommendations or alternatives to address existing and potential trouble areas, with problem resolution etc.  * Experienced working with clients to gather and document project requirements. Created process flows, documentation for SOP, as well as created systems /or applications' user guide, and users training materials etc. Text Analytical Programming Analyst Predictive Analytics Corporation October 2013 to November 2014 work at U.S. Security and Exchange Commission (SEC) QRADS Support team    * Responsible for preparing structured and unstructured data collection for data analysis, statistical and Machine Learning tasks with Natural Language Processing (NLP). As well as responsible for developing SAS model to identify specific pattern. Experienced in data models, schemas in XML, and developing the automated markup producer.  * Experienced in Statistical Modeling and Predictive Modeling, including Linear and Logistic Regression Models, Generalized Linear Models (GLMs), and Time Series Analysis and Forecasting, machine learning and data mining techniques  * Hands-on work developing in SAS, SQL, Python, and Java with Eclipse for extraction patterns from very large datasets and transform data into an informational advantage for decision support. Performed and assisted in design, development and testing of predictive analytics models that includes large data collection, data organization, text segmentation, categorization, summarization and topic modeling. Advanced statistical analysis in SAS and predictive solutions.  * Responsible and hands-on programming experience in Java, Python with using NLTK etc. package, Mathematica, and SQL etc. in development Machine Learning algorithms, as well as huge data transmission, text extraction, data mining, data mapping, data statistics, classification, aggregation and data migration applications, with all of phases of data analysis, methodology decision, coding, bug tracking and testing. Hands- on experience and successfully developing and converting the final project production - Automated 10k Filings Markup Producer from Python to Java.  * Experience in trouble shooting and resolution due to data with different formatting variations. Performing Apps sample data analysis, data quality, data validation and manual markup, including assets data, financial data and tested to the automated markup producer. Software Developer MAR, Incorporated December 2012 to June 2013 Worked at the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC), DC Headquarters  * Responsible for converting and developing new surveillance reports/tools from SAS into SQL Server 2012 to automate production of customized reporting requirements. Analysis of existing SAS code and SAS reports to develop capability for multi-dimensional analysis, including advanced visualizations, of individual trading activity by utilizing SAS (e.g., data step, PROC SQL) and report writing (SAS, PROC REPORT, PROC TABULATE, etc.). As well as experienced in SAS Macro/SQL, SQL Server 2012, data Warehousing, SSRS etc., and respect to ETL for performing data analysis, extraction, sorting, summarization, statistics, data mining, data mapping, data validation, data integrate, and large dataset import/export with SAS Enterprise Guide 4.3, SQL Server 2012 and SQL Server Reporting Services environment.  * Also, responsible for the project SQL code compaction, optimization, stored procedure, and development of UR reporting in SSRS with data visualization. Have done reports, including "Traders with Most Profitable Option Positions", "Largest Options Traders", "Traders with Largest Options Positions", "Gross Long and Short Options Positions by Strike Price", "Sensitivity Analysis: Changes in the market value of Large option trader positions", and "Overnight Markets Report".  * Execute and monitor financial reporting systems. Analysis of "Bank Participation Report" dataset in MS Access database with VB6. Scale the Bank Participation Report to the enterprise level and house it on UR. Wrote complex SQL queries to analyze and resolve legacy data quality issues in a data conversion project. Manipulate huge data sets from Bloomberg to excel and export to SQL Server 2012 database and performed data analysis, troubleshooting etc. Database Specialist /Systems Analyst /Systems Administrator University of Northern Virginia April 2003 to October 2012 U.S.A  * Responsible for developing the Academic Management System (AMS) for the University. Performed all stages of the SDLC for both relational databases and the system application design, including system requirement analysis, MVC architecture design, business model design, objects details implementation, database table design, coding, debugging, writing queries, stored procedure, functions, trigger, and reports with MS Access and VB6. Developed the ESL Program Management System using C#, SQL Server 2005, HTML, JavaScript, and CSS with Microsoft Visual Studio.NET 2005. As well as developed Admissions Database Management System (ADMS) and Payment Plan Management System (PPMS). Also, provided technical support for institutional business applications and university-wide database business applications.  * Responsible for Academic management system (AMS) migration to CAMS (Comprehensive Academic Management System) with ASP.NET, HTML, XML, JavaScript, CSS and managed both the CAMS and CAMS database in SQL Server 2005 for the University. Technical support for CAMS maintenance as well as coordinate and assist with the system upgrades. Performed routine application of CAMS hot fixes and special emphasis on customized report creation with SQL, SAS, and crystal report etc.  * Performed data analysis, data statistics, data mining, and general variety reports by using Base SAS, SAS Macro facility and SAS Sql programming include Proc means, Proc freq, Ttest etc., and SQL queries for data analysis, customizing report in CAMS for specialized needs. Also, performed system data QA/QC, trouble shooting and resolution. Provided progress reports to affected user groups on outstanding issues and planned enhancements as well as support training for CAMS users. In addition, also served as adjunct professor of computer science at the university, taught courses such as C++, VB.NET, Java, Principles of Programming Languages, and Principles of information Security etc. Education Master of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science University of Northern Virginia Certificate of MS in Computers in Applied Guangxi Normal University - Guilin, CN Bachelor's degree in Mathematics in Mathematics Guangxi Normal College - Nanning, CN Additional Information * More than 15 years of experience in all stages of the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC). Hands-on programming experience in both databases and systems/ applications development and data management. As well as experience in enterprise systems management, systems migration, implementation, and system maintenances. Also, hands-on working experience with manipulating big data and a variety of data, including assets data, financial data, survey data, academic data etc.  * Detail-oriented, efficient and organized professional with strong programming skills, experience hands-on programming in Python, Java, R, NLP, Machine Learning, SOA, Web Service with (JSON, REST APIs), SQL, SAS Base v9, SAS Macro facility and SAS Sql programming, SAS EG 4.3, C, C++, VB6, VB.NET, XML, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, and SQL Server 2005 -2012, SSRS, T-SQL, MS Access, Oracle, MS Excel, Oracle, and Netezza etc., as well as knowledge in Hadoop ecosystem, including HDFS, YARN, MapReduce, Spark, Pig, Hive, MySQL, NoSQL, MATLAB etc.  * Experience in processing large volumes and variety of data (structure, unstructured data), analytics training machine learning models, applying and developing text mining /NLP techniques. Hands-on programming experience in developing algorithms /applications for data analysis, data mining, text extraction, segmentation, aggregation, mapping, categorization, statistics, transforming and manipulating of raw data, as well as experienced in data architecting, data modeling, integrating to operational workflows and implementing ETL with FTP or SFTP, and Oraclr.  * Possess strong analytical, statistical skills in analyzing complex data sets and various problem-solving skills, as well as predictive analytics to correlate the big datasets and events etc.  * Experience working with Windows, Unix, Linux, SASGrid, and Agile scrum environment.  * Creative and positive team player with polished communication skills.  * Resourceful in the completion of projects, effective at multi-tasking.