Python Engineer <span class="hl">Python</span> Engineer Python Engineer - Twitter- San Fracisco San Francisco, CA Around 6 years of IT experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Implementation and Testing of various stand-alone and client-server architecture-based enterprise application software in Python, as Data Engineer/ Python Developer and on various domains. Work Experience Python Engineer Twitter- San Fracisco - CA April 2018 to Present • Worked on fully automating the tests on pytest for the mid-market, consumer backup products.  • Worked on Amazon Web Services (AWS) infrastructure with automation and configuration management tools such as Chef and Puppet.  • Worked on developing CRUD applications using MERN stack (MongoDB, ExpressJS, ReactJS and NodeJS) and REST API.  • Worked on virtualization tools, used for supporting and hosting OIM Components, such as Oracle Virtual Box, VMware Workstation, Oracle VM Server and VMware vSphere.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Involved in Implementing change requests raised by user for server configuration, kernel tuning, software installation and OS hardening Managing Linux VMs using Puppet as per some project's requirement  • Developed Chef Cookbooks to install and configure Apache Tomcat, Jenkins and deployment automation.  • Automated various infrastructure activities like Continuous Deployment, Application Server setup, Stack monitoring using Ansible playbooks and has Integrated Ansible with Run deck and Jenkins.  • Wrote Ansible Playbooks with Python SSH as the Wrapper to Manage Configurations of AWS nodes and Tested Playbooks on AWS instances using Python. Run Ansible Scripts to Provide Dev Servers.  • Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, Oracle DB, PostgreSQL, and VMWare API calls.  • Used Chef, deployed and configured Elasticsearch, Logstash and Kibana (ELK) for log analytics, full text search, application monitoring in integration with AWS Lambda and CloudWatch.  • Involved in implementing server-side technologies with REST API and MVC design patterns in node JS and Django framework.  • Created a custom Puppet module skeleton to use same structure across all Puppet modules  • Worked with Windows Server and Linux Operating Systems (Windows Server2008/2012, RHEL, SLES, or Ubuntu)  • Worked in version control systems using CVS, SVN and Git/ Github and issue tracking tools like Jira and BugZilla.  • Built a new CI/CD pipeline. Testing and deployment automation with Docker, Jenkins, and Ansible.  • Test driven development (TDD) and agile development using integrate platform (Quartz, subversion, Story/Jira/Sprint) for development, testing, signoff and release.  • Utilized Git version control to coordinate team-development.  • Knowledge about setting up Python REST API Frame work using Django. Experience in working with Python ORM Libraries including Django ORM.  • Involved in implementing server-side technologies with restful API and MVC design patterns in node JS and Django framework.  • Create Jenkins pipeline jobs for Puppet release process for module deployment, using agile methodology for Puppet development.  • Involved in writing and debugging code, automate testing, deploying microservices like Docker and production server.  • Used Ansible playbooks to setup Continuous Delivery pipeline. This primarily consists of a Jenkins and Sonar server, the infrastructure to run these packages and various supporting software components such as Maven,  • Worked on Open VMS 6.2, 7.1 & 7.2, Unix (SOLARIS), Linux, and NT systems. Performed system tuning functions and installed software on NT, Unix, and Alpha-servers.  • Superior Troubleshooting and Technical support abilities with Migrations, Network connectivity, Security, and Database applications.  • Worked on Shell Scripting, SQL Server, UNIX and Linux, Open stack. Involved in Unit testing, Integration testing, User-Acceptance testing, and Functional testing. Python Developer Stow company - Holland, MI May 2016 to June 2017 Key Accomplishments Python Developer Citibank Financial - New York, NY February 2015 to April 2016 Key Accomplishments  • Developed the presentation layer using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery and AJAX. Utilized Python libraries wxPython, numPY, Pandas, Twisted and mat PlotLib.  • Responsible in upgrading their operating system from OpenVMS to Linux and converting all DCL programs to Python.  • Developed frontend and backend modules using Python on Django including Tasty Pie Web Framework using Git.  • Implemented build stage- to build the MicroService architecture and push the Docker container image to the private Docker registry and Images that are custom built are stored for future use.  • Created Puppet manifests and modules to automate system operations. Created monitors, alarms and notifications for EC2 hosts using Cloud Watch.  • Deployed and monitored scalable infrastructure on AWS and managing the infrastructure environment with Puppet.  • Developed flask Restful API endpoints for accessing through UI and uploading ETL data.  • Developed Python based microservice to extract the data from system of records into Enterprise Data warehousing.  • Application was based on service-oriented architecture and used Python 2.7, Django1.5, JSF 2, spring 2, Ajax for the frontend.  • Developed complex mappings to load data from Source System (Oracle) and flat files to Teradata as well as worked with Teradata utilities like BTEQ, Fast Load and Multi Load.  • Developed another microservice to extract AML data from Enterprise Data warehousing and push to external systems in JSON format.  • Worked in an Agile development team to deliver an end to end continuous integration, continuous delivery product in an open source environment using tools like VSTS  • Implemented SQL Alchemy which is a python library for complete access over SQL.  • Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis. Panda's library was used for flexible reshaping and pivoting of data sets.  • Used Jenkins pipelines to drive all microservices builds out to the Docker registry and then deployed to Kubernetes, Created Pods and managed using Kubernetes  • Installed, configured, and managed the AWS server. AWS data pipeline for Data Extraction, Transformation and Loading from the homogeneous or heterogeneous data sources.  • Accessed database objects using Django Database REST APIs. Worked on python-based test frameworks and test-driven development with automation tools.  • Implemented advanced procedures like text analytics and processing using the in-memory computing capabilities like Apache Spark written in Scala.  • Deployed mircoservices2, including provisioning AWS environments using Ansible Playbooks.  • Provisioned load balancer, auto-scaling group and launch configuration for microservice using Ansible.  • Analyzed report requirements and developing the reports by writing Teradata SQL Queries and using MS Excel, Power Point and UNIX.  • Provisioned and patched servers regularly using Ansible. Implemented Ansible to manage all existing servers and automate the build/configuration of new servers.  • Develop python code to automate the ingestion of common formats such as JSON, CSV by using Logstash from elastic search to Kibana dashboard to be viewed by clients.  • Involved in Docker container deploying microservices, and scaling the deployment using Kubernetes. and developed Chat Ops interfaces with slack and Kubernetes on GKE.  • Migrated out core repository from SUBVERSION to GIT. Managed GitHub Projects and migrated from SVN to GitHub with history.  • Used Cloud Trail, TESSA, Cloud Passage, Check Marx, Qualys Scan tools for AWS security and scanning. Software Developer Starbucks-Seattle August 2013 to December 2014 Key Accomplishments  • Worked on developing Web Services using - SOAP, WSDL and developing DTDs, XSD schemas for XML (parsing, processing, and design)  • Implemented logging mechanism to capture exceptions and errors using Log4j tool. Used Tortoise SVN as a version-control client for Subversion  • Created Docker images using Spotify Maven Plugin, for deployment of microservices.  • Creation of REST API Web services for the management of data using Apache CXF.  • Worked on Python to place data into JSON files for testing Django Websites. Created scripts for data modeling and data import and export.  • Deployment of cloud infrastructure and automation solutions (Openstack/vMware/KVM)  • Developed the front-end featuring rich web interface using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and used JQuery framework for UI centric AJAX behaviour. Deployed and maintained infrastructure using Chef cookbooks and recipes; deployed and managed cloud-based application environments running on Openstack.  • Wrote AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings.  • Provided input on the future execution of the Cloud based environments with a strong emphasis on automation, security.  • Implemented a continuous integration environment using Bamboo, in which unit tests and end to end tests were automated to be run after checking in to any repository from any developer.  • Implemented Docker containers to create images of the applications and dynamically provision slaves to Jenkins CI/CD pipelines.  • Used XML for dynamic display of options in select box and description on web page.  • Involved and played a leading role in database migration projects from Oracle to MongoDB.  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using JSON and involved in AJAX driven application by invoking web services/API and parsing the JSON response.  • Involved in installing software using pip command for python libraries like Beautiful Soup, NumPy, SciPy, python-twitter, RabbitMQ, Celery, matplotlib, Pandas data-frame and used the PEP8 coding convention.  • Migration of API code written for Sybase to Oracle and was involved in Overlook the migration activity of PL/SQL programs.  • Build back-end application with Python / Django, Worked on Dockers, RabbitMQ, Celery, and Jenkins. Involved in migrating the Libraries written using Sybase API's to Oracle OCCI API.  • Used Python Libraries Pandas and NumPy, SQL and Tableau to procure, clean and aggregate data from Relational database to generate status reports and dashboards Education Master's Skills ython, NumPy, Pandas, SQLAlchemy , Linux, shell-scripting,Git and Gerrit, CI/CD automation Chef, Puppet, Ansible, Fabric Docker and LXC, VMWare and VirtualBox Jenkins ,REST API, Automation GitHub, Asana, Jira, REST, GraphQL,Spark AWS Lamda AWS Serverless concepts,Google, Azure IAM AWS Glue Terraform Vagrant SQL/Database (5 years), Java, Javascript, Angular, Node, React