Sr. Java Developer Sr. Java <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Back End Engineer with Microservices San Jose, CA • 12+ Years of experience in software design and development, Data Modeling, Software tool development which includes Coding, Testing, Debugging, troubleshooting for Back end Web services(Micro services Architecture), REST based SAAS application, Android/Medical devices, VOIP, high-volume, high-scalable, low-latency Software development in E-Commerce, Android Apps, Telecomm billing, Airlines domain by using Agile Methodology, Test driven development, etc.  • Motivated, proactive, innovative problem solver with excellent analytical, organizational, interpersonal, communication and written skills. Excellent team player, quick learner, keen to learn and implement the new IT technologies.  • Strong knowledge of Data Structure and Algorithm, Object Oriented Analysis, Machine Learning (Bagging, Boosting) and software design patterns. Work Experience Sr. Java Developer 8x8 Inc. April 2017 to Present • Developing backend REST API micro services for server side application which includes voice mail, public and private audio (music on hold, ring back tone, etc), call processing/call router/scheduler xml file for VOIP telephony system. While developing micro service of a module, it may call other micro services from some other module.  • Developing these APIs as SAAS for public as well as private level like extension/pbx/branch/customer level.  • Designing the URI for micro services through which these back end platform APIs are connected with other module.  • Architecting micro services API for Enterprise Cloud based telephony product. Sr. Java Developer Ebay Inc September 2016 to April 2017 • Maintaining Core Checkout System as a backend module of Electronic Marketplace product. CCS calls other micro services from other back end modules.  • Developed Ship to Fund release reactor (Consumer part of the Producer-Consumer model) application addressing some events like shipment tracking, Order payment, etc.  • Developed Seller workout email templates for below standard candidates. Sr. Java/ Python Developer Thermo Fisher Scientific January 2015 to September 2016 • Developed and implemented some multithreaded functionalities including identification of different tag for end result ab1/fsa file, designing of plate/well/injection object corresponding to different type of run, designing and implementing of optical alignment interaction with Instrument Server for controlling various activity (raw camera data, motor movement, etc), plotting of color object, writing to the end result file, validating and analyzing them, etc for Data Collection software for DNA sequencing/fragment analysis.  • Designing Data Modeling related to well, injection and plate object for DNA sequencing/fragment run corresponding to a plate (specimen plate).  • Involving in developing a tool for UI validating in Android instrument/emulator. Sr. Java (Android)/ Python/Triage Engineer Qualcomm August 2011 to December 2014 • Developed and implemented a multithreaded tool with buildbot for building and testing of android browser source for proprietary/open source changes.  • Developed and implemented "UI Automation suite" tool for validating UI activity in Android devices such as scrolling, zooming, rotating, etc for different browsers. The software tool provides UI APIs for opening tab/url, closing tab, refreshing page, clearing cache, etc.  • Finding root cause of a crash by debugging through stack trace, adb log, etc.  • Developed and implemented tool for generating the stack trace from application crash dump of different android applications such as browser.  • Flashed/triaged devices for different chipset using T-32 and JTAG connector. Tools Developer Care Fusion September 2008 to July 2011 • Developed and implemented build tools for automating different file operations associated with embedded products such as infusion, dispensing.  • Worked with FDA regulated medical devices product like Infusion, Dispensing, etc.  • Developed and implemented client server tools for dispensing builds.  • Responsibility also includes day to day build and release to the appropriate team. Developer Sony Electronics March 2008 to August 2008 • Implemented shared objects in Linux (Ubuntu) using C for accessing Java Script from C/C++ code in embedded environment.  • Developed widgets (weather, gaming) for testing TV API in embedded environment. Senior Subject Matter expert AMDOCS August 2005 to February 2008 Ensemble) Implemented several functionalities, collection agent and reject pricing as new multithreading functionality in the rater module of Ensemble.  • Worked with Customer Hierarchy & Discount Engine product related to billing software.  • (Clarify CRM) Fixed bug and customization (C++ in Windows) in Email Clerk application.  • Fixed bug in Rule manager and Thick client application. Sr. Software Developer Ushacomm February 2002 to August 2005 • Implementation of the customer billing processes with enterprise resource planning (ERP)  • (Megatel Inc.) Designed several modules such as Collection agents, Formatters, Accumulators, Rating clients and Rating servers, Invoicing (mail sending feature).  • (Union Telephone WY) Implemented the billing methods as new multithreading functionality for the customers for different Wireless technologies, using business scenarios such as pricing plans, Inventory, discount plans, monthly minimum usage charges, etc.  • (TLD, Puerto Rico) Implemented installation script, several functionalities as new multithreading functionality in the bulk rate module for the Domestics and Intra-Lata calls for wireless tech. Worked in invoicing module too.  • (Cable & Wireless, Panama) Implemented Block of Minute (BOM) modules to facilitate several discounting processes and several interfaces related to billing processes.  • Implemented the concept of the child and parent accounts that dictates distribution of call volume between the child accounts and the parent accounts in the discounting module.  • (Calcutta Telephone, India) Implemented accumulation and bulk rating modules.    Cognizant Technology Solutions  • (Brinker International, TX) Implemented a new password system module in the BSS application to ensure security in the employees' accounts access processes for Brinker International, USA.  • (Northwest Airlines, MN) Implemented some functionalities of the forecast module of AMITASK.  • Developed a tool to analyze specific details of source code of the AMITASK application. Education Bachelor in Computer Science & Technology Indian institute of engineering science and technology Skills JAVA (7 years), PYTHON (5 years), Springboot (3 years), Java J2Ee, Rest, MySQL Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/sourav-kundu-0a34426 Additional Information TECHNICAL EXPERTISE:  Programming/Scripting Language Java (Spring/Spring boot), Python, C/C++, Java Script, XML.  Operating System/platform Linux, Android, UNIX, Windows.  Databases PL/SQL, MySQL, Oracle(Relational Database), Couch DB (NoSQL), Sybase, Hadoop.  Technology/Tools  Eclipse, Android Studio, JUnit, JIRA, Jenkins, UIAutomator, Buildbot, JSON, REST Architecture, Maven, T-32, Android Debug Board, JTAG, Visual Studio, IPC mechanism, ILOG Rules, Agile methodology, CORBA (Orbix), Rogue Wave.    Source Control Software SVN, Perforce, Git, Clear case.