Software Engineer ( Python, PostgreSQL, MongoDB) Software Engineer (<span class="hl">Python</span>, PostgreSQL, MongoDB) Capable, Confident, Adept learner, Team Player, Proven Leader Rancho Cucamonga, CA Team focused programmer with proven successes in the entire SDLC. Adaptable, eager  and capable developer with a wide breadth of knowledge.    To see an example of my Python knowledge, see http://stackoverflow.com/users/829811/voodoonofx Work Experience Software Engineer ( Python, PostgreSQL, MongoDB) Sony Pictures Entertainment, Colorworks, Culver City, CA - Culver City, CA November 2011 to Present Responsibilities  Develop and Maintain internal web application to automate post-production asset registration, EDL based pulls, debayering and delivery of client frames. (Turbogears, Pylons, PostgreSQL).    Principally responsible for Shotgun asset tracker setup, maintenance and core integration into automation pipeline for several high profile shows (Spiderman {1,2,3}, Total Recall, After Earth, etc) as well as complete asset and task tracking for Colorworks and several other departments.    Additionally responsible for several supporting tasks such as:    - Supporting 4K initiatives by scripting scalable render manager from EXR/TIFF to J2K pipeline backed by Shotgun Software management interface.  - Scripting automation of Conform department including a file searching utility which located items on over 4PB of SAN storage from an EDL, hard linked them into a new folder and allowed easy conform of material.  - Spearheaded Baselight scripting initiative, working with Filmlight to create an API to their platform. Learned ICI (a c-like language) to assist Filmlight in architecting API endpoints.  - Created, maintained and contribute to internal python libraries used for DPX file header parsing, timecode and EDL parsing and several other boilerplate tasks.    Accomplishments  In addition to the above, I spearheaded several innovative projects, including:    Develop highly scalable multi-threaded file indexer to crawl over 4PB of files for instant access, scriptable searches and reporting of usage, duplication, churn and age of files. (AMQP, Mongo).    Created Nuke gizmo's to assist VFX team in automatically creating standardized build nodes, which allow the artist to fire and forget the rendering of frames.    Created Slate and Quicktime generator backend which links to events in Shotgun allowing anyone to create a standardized slate or quicktime from a folder of frames. This process applies color from .cc or .ccc files, ASC-CDL values in EDL or custom .3dl or .csp, resizes to HD, applies burn-ins and wraps with FFMpeg or FFmbc. Each step is completely customizable for each show using a simple JSON config file.    Skills Used  Primarily Python, Turbogears and PostgreSQL, expanded to MongoDB. Source control with CVS for Sony projects, git/mercurial for my own projects. Co-Owner, Developer (Java, Python, Google App Engine, BigTable) Keith Swift Software - Northridge, CA September 2010 to Present • Lead a team of developers to create Home Inspection Application utilizing cloud storage and backup, local database multi-master sync with cloud db and well architected hibernate ORM.  • Successfully deployed Java application for October launch. Lead Developer/General Manager (VB.NET, Python, MSSQL) Porter Valley Software/ESP, Inc. - Palm Springs, CA September 2009 to September 2010 • Lead a team of developers to save a failing VB.NET fat client application.  • Successfully deployed VB.NET application for December launch.  • Increased sales and revenue 200% by analyzing weak points in sales/coding team.  • Architected and developed a cloud computing/ Python based CRM to manage customers,  purchases and client report uploads averaging 5GB uploaded reports per day.  • Architected mobile version of software, being able to deploy on Windows Mobile,  iPhone/iPod/iPad, Android and Symbian OS. Developer (Linux, Python, mySQL) | Freelancer Stewart Investigative Services - Rancho Cucamonga, CA December 2008 to September 2009 • Re-architected existing MS Access fat client intranet CRM into co-located Python/Turbogears  web application.  • Extensively utilized Python frameworks (Turbogears) and libraries (FFMpeg, ZLib, PyAmf, simplejson) to manage private investigation case notes, capture video, and investigators  scheduling data (averaging 400MB of uploaded data per day).  • Architected and planned second iteration to include Flash/FLEX fat client interface (awaiting specification approval and funding). Owner/Freelancer In Home Tech Support - Rancho Cucamonga, CA September 2003 to September 2009 • Planned, developed and maintained small and medium scale (50+ users) AD environments.  • Implemented Virtualization (VMWare ESX, Xen) for cost saving deployments.  • Wrote several intranet applications to manage operations of SOHO businesses. (See: Stewart Investigative, Porter Valley Software)  • Developed Python powered web applications for SOHO businesses, centering on  Turbogears 1.1/2.0 using SQLAlchemy, Genshi/Mako templates, MySQL/MSSQL/SQLite/NoSQL database backends.  • Exposed several API's using JSON/REST/AMF to ensure operability with future applications. Aspire OSS Project | Freelancer In Home Tech Support - Telecommute June 2008 to December 2008 • Key member in QA of existing source code to find memory leakage and out of bounds errors.  • Wrote several patches to existing trunk.  • Aided lead developer in branching existing trunk to include the Boost libraries.  • Implemented version control system (SVN), issue tracker (Trac), and user forum (phpBB) for project lead. Bio-Image Research Labs | Internship University of California, Santa Barbara (UCSB) - Santa Barbara, CA June 2007 to December 2007 • Chosen as 1 of 10 from a pool of thousands of candidates to participate in the Bisque  development project.  • Principally tasked with researching "Microtubule Dynamic Analysis" to create a MATLAB  extension which calculated the changing length of a Microtubule across a 4D image stack.  • Presented research findings to the Computer and Electrical Engineering faculty and students at UCSB.  • Application is now in wide use among many university research teams such as UCLA, CMU and MIT. Education Bachelor - In Progress in Computer Systems California State University - San Bernardino, CA January 2006 to January 2009 Skills 3GL: [ Java (Fluently), C++ (Academically) ], 4GL: [ Python (Fluently), {My|Postgre|MS|No}SQL (Fluently)], REST, Web 2.0, SEO, Proven Leadership, SCRUM Links http://stackoverflow.com/users/829811/voodoonofx Additional Information KEY SKILLS Proficient or familiar with a vast array of programming languages, concepts and technologies, including:    3GL: Java (Fluently), C++ (Academically)  4GL: Python (Fluently), {My|Postgre|MS}SQL (Fluently)  REST, AMQP, Web 2.0, SEO  Nuke, Autodesk, Baselight  FFmbc, FFMpeg, Kakadu  Shotgun Software  Proven Leadership  Metrics and Process Improvement  Scrum Methodologies