Flex- Python Developer/Integration/Module Lead Flex-<span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span>/Integration/Module Lead Flex- Python Developer/Integration/Module Lead - Bank of America/Tata Consultancy Services Yonkers, NY Result oriented software professional with expertise in technologies used in the modern world. Responsibilities held include in the area of Analysis, Design, Development, Implementation, Integration and Testing of Client/Server /Internet/Intranet Systems for various Industries using Object Oriented Analysis/ Design /Methodologies, Offshore management, subject matter expertise, application quality governance, POC/prototype development and negotiation of requirements, vendor evaluation, project management, improvement of group efficiency by defining procedures and automation with experience in industries ranging from Fortune 500 to start-up companies. Work Experience Flex- Python Developer/Integration/Module Lead Bank of America/Tata Consultancy Services - New York, NY October 2011 to Present New York City Oct 2011 - Till Date    Project: Market Risk Applications- MRX VaR, Metrics, Stressed VaR, Window Scheduling, Time Series, SAT, Impact Analysis, Warehouse Adjustments, Limits, MRZ Model, Issuer Risk, IRC-CRM SignOff Tool, DQ Metrics    Role: Flex- Python Developer/Integration/Module Lead  Description: Market Risk Strategies provides the information to assess the market risk involved with the market entities. It is flexible for users to customize the views and reports of the market entities based on their choices and requirements like current face value, market value and historical data and other details. Risk is that values of assets and liabilities or revenues will be adversely affected by change in market conditions such as market movements. This risk is inherent in the financial instruments associated with our operations and/or activities including loans, deposits, securities, short term harrowing s, long term debts, trading account assets, liabilities, mortgage, banking activities and derivatives.  Market Risk Applications belongs to an architect, engineer, designer, subject matter expert developer, or business expert/analyst supporting technology solutions which effectively influence and lead cross functional teams to extract meaningful & actionable conclusions from the data analyzed; clearly and crisply communicate decisions and opinions. Utilizes knowledge of technological alternatives, business requirements, and business environments to support or maintain technology solutions which provides management and guidance to support achieving business objectives.    MRX  Part of the MRX development team. Programming on Flex/Java/MSTR. MRX is the Market Risk Web Portal which housed specific risk applications such as VaR Reporting and Limits. Market Risk is the risk that the value of assets, liabilities or revenues will be adversely affected by changes in market conditions. Market Risk arises from the fluctuating prices of securities and other investments as they are traded in the global markets. Prices of holdings change on a daily basis. Market Risk always exists, its varying impact, however, is dependant on the external environment.    IRC/CRM  Incremental Risk Change/ Comprehensive Risk Measure - All these are used to calculate charges that are needed so that we can adequately sound if ever things blow up. It started monitoring them on weekly basis. When there are changes, we've to explain what caused this change. Since data is so vast and since the calculations are on one file, but the exposures on another we need a tool to marry the two sets. So we can quickly say that our IRC/CRM went up because of x positions. Where this x position decreased y amount or if any new product came in causing the IRC/CRM numbers to change.  Impact Analysis  Part of the IA development team. Programming on Quartz framework using Python. Quartz is a proprietary Python framework used in Market Risk to build services and both web and desktop front ends on departmental risk applications. Impact Analysis is an application which reports VaR and PnL and other metrics aggregated on Attributes such as Risk Factors, Book Hierarchy, and Regions among other variables.  Stressed VaR - Window Scheduling  Part of SVaR Window Scheduling team. Based on Bookmarks and Calculation methodologies users are allowed to create new Windows (Official and Temporary). Users are allowed to schedule windows on daily/weekly/monthly basis, also to refresh and replacement options are allowed.  Responsibilities:  • Responsible for analysis, design, development and integration of Market Risk applications with FLEX/JAVA/ PYTHON.  • UI development for market risk analysis using Quartz a Python framework. Extensively used object database R and relational database QzTable for persistence.  • Created JDBC connection with Netezza and Sybase using spring JDBC framework.  • Connected Flex from Spring Controller using different API services.  • Interact with Business Analyst, Business Users and Managers for gathering, analyzing, documenting business requirements, functional requirements and data specifications.  • Involved Unit Testing, Integration Testing, Regression Testing and System Testing.  • Responsible for developing RIA Components with Flash Builder 4.  • Responsible for development of MXML and Action Script custom components to meet the business requirements  • Used Cairngorm architecture to interact with backend J2EE and web services layer to pull out the data to flex UI components.  • Implemented Controller logic for the application based on Cairngorm framework.  • Developed Custom Item Rendered to include components, assets in Flex Advanced Data grid.  • Flex development exposure of Flex layout and navigation, event handling, pop-up dialogs, menus and skinning.  • Designed CSS style sheets for application wide usage.  • Responsible for quality assurance of all web design projects, including web usability, accessibility, testing and debugging.  • Actively participated and provided feedback in a constructive and insightful manner during daily Stand up meetings and weekly Iterative review meetings to track the progress for each iterative cycle and figure out the issues  • Feedback to the development team immediately after completion of each Iteration testing.    Environment: Adobe Flex 4, Flash Builder 4, Python, JavaScript, Cairngorm Micro Architecture, MXML, Action Script 3.0, Java, J2EE, CSS, Aginity Netezza WorkBench, Sybase 15, Spring JDBC 3.1, SVN Version Control, Unix using PUTTY, WinSCP, Java Flex Developer TRUSTEK January 2009 to September 2011 Description: The CPLE is a Rich Internet application compatible with standard Flex and J2EE deployment technologies with APIs used. This system is designed to run over the Internet through a standard web browser having Flash Player 10 and above. This application consults new associated or customers to plan their Long term and Short Term goals by telling side by side Risk profile for their goals. This application is having four major modules: The Brassard is an online application which enables customers to safe with a novel contemporary approach to protecting the arm following injury or surgery. The word Brassard originated from medieval days when noble knights would don suits of armor to head into battle. Each segment of armor had an individual name and Brassard was the piece that protected the arm.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in Analysis & Development of the application.  • Involved in enhancement for front tier side keeping in the view of limitation of Middle Tier framework.  • Created views for entire application using ViewStack including business logic  • Implemented web analytics for entire application and monitoring dashboard.  • Responsible for overall design & analysis Flex UI components and integration with existing J2EE and Web Services Layer.  • Implemented applications using SILVERLIGHT and XAML interface.  • Developed Flash framework development using Action script 3  • Developed Flex based applications, debugging and deployment  • User interface designing, audio and video editing, troubleshooting as well as development of plug-ins to update existing applications  • Integrated connectivity with database from different applications and migrated it to the new applications  • Integrated EDI into existing ERP system including Invoicing and product catalog creation.  • Creatied and maintained product data and customer information used by way of external web application.  • Developed system to provide up to date product data available to customers.  • Designed and implemented system to communicate information with warehouses.  • Performed action script development across different browsers for various needs  • Performed routine performance reviews for any errors arising with the application  • Developed RIA (rich internet applications) designed for using servers and client machines  • Performed implementation of core application into server    Environment: Flex/Java, HTML, SilverLight, MXML, Action Script 3.0, LCDS, J2EE 1.4, JSP, HTML, CSS, JDBC, XML Flex Developer Sherston Software June 2004 to December 2008 Trivandrum/ New Castle, UK June 2004 - Dec 2008  Project: BBC Science Simulations, BBC Naughty Stories, Model Shop,  Role: Flex Developer    Description: BBC Science simulations software provides a unique opportunity for primary pupils to conduct a series of 'virtual' scientific experiments covering several key areas of the primary science curriculum. The simulations are closely based on the award winning BBC Science Clips TV series and follow the QCA Scheme of work for Science. Each simulation provides pupils with the opportunity to select variables, control time and view the results of their experiments as animations and/or dynamically generated tables and graphs that chart the results of each combination of variables over time.    Responsibilities:  • Responsible for overall design & analysis of overall Flex UI component development and integration with J2EE and Web Service Layer / Remoting.  • Doing with projects for leading publishing groups; clients are BBC, Oxford and Collins  • Responsible for developing Flex UI components using Flex Builder 3  • Adobe Flex development experience, creating rich user interfaces for complex applications  • Responsible for development of MXML and Action Script files to meet the business requirements  • Implemented Controller logic for the application based on Cairngorm framework.  • Worked heavily on Flex Data Grid and Flex Data Services Components.  • Strong Designing of Flex UI components as well as creating and skinning of custom Flex components.  • Responsible for implementing best design patterns from Cairngorm architecture to interact with backend J2EE and web services layer to pull out the data to Flex UI Components.  • Using Flash for Designing Custom Components; designed and developed all required Data providers which are being used by Flex General UI controls.  • Flex development exposure of Flex Layout and Navigation, Advanced Event Handling, Popup Dialogs, Menus and Skinning.  • Responsible for overall design & analysis Flex UI components and integration with existing J2EE and Web Services Layer.  • Leading the team working on SILVERLIGHT and XAML interface and implementation.  • Implementing Web 2.0 and RIA development using Adobe Air, Adobe Flex and AJAX.  • Responsible for overall design & analysis Flex UI components and integration with existing J2EE and Web Services Layer.  • Implemented Controller logic for the application based on Cairngorm framework.  • Scrolling Windows are created using JavaScript, CSS and DHTML for application wide usage; Actively used Action Scrip3.0 for Validation of Forms.  • Prepared the project technical documentation in .EXE format with the help of Macromedia Flash CS3 and Action Script 2.0  • Responsible for quality assurance of all web design projects, including web usability, accessibility, testing and debugging.    Environment: Adobe Flex 3.0, Flash Builder 3, Cairngorm Micro Architecture, MXML, Action Script 3.0, Flex charting, LCDS, CSS, Java 1.4, JSP, J2EE, Hibernate Framework, Design patterns, Oracle 10g, JBOSS, Windows XP, VSS, XML, JDBC Flash Programmer White House Business Solutions, Malaysia April 2003 to June 2004 Description: White House Business Solutions (WHBS) is one of the leading-edge technology companies providing end-to-end E-learning solutions and integrated business applications to a wide spectrum of clients including government organizations, academic institutions and enterprises worldwide.    Responsibilities:  • Developing Internet and E-learning applications(based on OOP model) using ActionScript 3.0  • Developed Action Classes and Action helpers to get the data from business tier using Agile Methodology.  • Integrating Flash with XML, JSFL, HTML to create Dynamic Application Framework Developed the SOAP requests to interact with the billing system.  • Involved in designing frontends using JSPs, Servlets, HTML, DHTML and CSS.  • Used CSS to display different styles for specified HTML elements.  • Making standards and developing best practices for team.  • Writing design and functional documents and specs for rich client projects  • Developing applications using Web services and Remoting    Environment: Flash CS3, Flex 2.0, ActionScript 2.0, MXML, MVC, XML, JSFL, Design patterns, Java Script, CSS, AMF, Remoting, SOAP Flash Developer Jay Info Systems Pvt Ltd March 2001 to March 2003 India Mar 2001 - Mar 2003  Project: Medical/Engineering Entrance Software, School Software  Role: Flash Developer    Description:  Smart School Software has been developed for various CBSE and ICSE school allover India by JIS that has proven track record in software development for diverse needs. This School Management software has been engineered considering the vital needs of all the stakeholders in the school system, namely, principal, administrator, teachers, students, parents and others.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in Analysis, Design and Development.  • Screens were developed using HTML, CSS and XSL was used for presentation.  • Data validation was done using XML Schemas.  • Used Flash ActionScript for implementing Presentation Layer.  • Used different Design Patterns like Singleton Patterns.  • Developed Servlets to serve different types of client HTTP requests for real-time data.  • Deployment of application to WebLogic application servers on different environments.  • Good communication with the Team members.    Environment: Java 1.4, J2EE 1.4, JSP, HTML, CSS, JDBC, Struts1.2, XML, XSL, Oracle9i, SQL/PLSQL, Stored Procedures, CVS, Web Logic, Linux Education Masters in Computer Applications Bharathiar University Bachelors in Mathematics Mahatma Gandhi University Additional Information Skills:    • Flex/Java: Integration with Rich Internet Applications for Market Risk / Credit Risk / Various Applications- Flex 3.0/4.0/4.5, Flash, ActionScript, MXML, Web Service, Http Services, Remote Object  • Python: Python, UI development of Bank of America's Python framework Quartz for market risk impact and trend analysis, PyDev/Eclipse, Automation (deployment, configuration, data extraction etc.)  • JAVA: J2EE/JEE, Eclipse, WebSphere, Tomcat/Apache, Spring, JDBC, JUnit  • Front End:- HTML, JavaScript, CSS and Flex, Silverlight, XML  • Databases: Netezza, Sybase , RDBMS(Oracle, SQL, PL/SQL)  • API Services: Web Services, Remoting, HTTP Services, SOAP clients  • Frameworks: Quartz, Pure MVC, Cairngorm, Pure MVC, Model View Controller, Singleton, Factory, Qz DeskTop  • Tools: CODE, JIRA, ANT, SVN, HTTPAnalyzer, LMS, RDE, IRISK, SOAP, HTTP, AMF and RTMP  • Microsoft Project, Excel, Visio, Powerpoint  • Agile, XP, SCRUM, Waterfall methodologies  • Markup Languages: HTML, DHTML, CSS, MXML, XHTML, XML/XSL, XPATH  • Version Control: CVS, SVN, Visual Source Safe, Rational Enterprise Suite: Clear Case, PVCS, Subversion  • Scripting Languages: Action Script, JavaScript, Shell Scripts, AJAX  • Operating System: Linux and Windows XP/NT/Vista    Summary of Qualifications:    • Currently working for Bank of America/TCS as a GUI developer for Market Risk Applications.  • Total 10 years of professional experience with leading world companies in the area of Analysis, Design, Development, Implementation, Integration and Testing of Client/Server /Internet/Intranet Systems for various Industries using Object Oriented Analysis/ Design /Methodologies  • Working as a Senior Developer with Market Risk Technology under Global Markets & Operations Technology (GM&O T).  • Proficient in range of J2EE technologies and frameworks like Blaze DS and Spring  • Developing a tool for front office Market Sales for e-trading, reporting and business intelligence gathering.  • Working towards a single solution for Bonds, Loans and CDS, dealing with complete end to end trade execution and risk management with new Quartz applications.  • Development strategy is a mix of agile and test driven development, using a large number of popular libraries  • Active Contributor to the core Quartz codebase and work closely with Quartz Core Team to build UI components and their API's.  • 7 years experience in Adobe FLEX (3.0/4.0/4.5)/JAVA and Action Script to develop Rich Internet Applications (RIA) and other Adobe Technologies.  • Knowledge in Programming on Quartz framework using Python  • Knowledge in Macromedia Flash, Adobe Integrated Runtime environment (AIR).  • Experience with Adobe Flex with Cairngorm Framework (MVC) and Spring.  • Experience in User Interface (UI Components) development using Flex 3.0/4.0/4.5, Action Script 3.0/4.0/4.5, Flex API, and Flex Data Services, MXML.  • Expertise in Design Patterns like Front Controller, Business Delegate, Service Locator and Model Locator in Flex.  • Expertise in FLEX Data Services (LCDS) using HTTP Services (REST), WEB Services (SOAP), Remote Object Services (AMF) in Live Cycle data services (LCDS) used for communication and real time collaboration.  • Experience in using Item Renderer, Item Editor, Repeaters, Effects, States and Transitions, Knowledge in Flex Manager classes like Drag, Cursor and Popup Manager.  • Experience in Design, Develop and Implementations of Flex based RIA applications including work done on Blaze DS, ColdFusion, Cairngorm Framework.  • Experience in developing web based user friendly GUIs using Java Applets, Servlets, JSP, Custom Tag Libraries, HTML, CSS, XHTML, DHTML, Java Script, XML, ASP  • Expertise in Language C/C++, Data Structures and Algorithm Analysis.  • Strong Knowledge on SOAP and Web Services.  • Knowledge in Database Management , Black box implementation using Web Service, ToolBox, Open source code library, E-magazines, Science Simulations  • Experienced in creating Custom components (MXML & AS3) , Re-usable code, etc  • Knowledge with MVC, AMF and AIR applications  • Knowledge in Resource Bundle, Compound Lifecycle, Item rendering, Binding  • Experience in developing Cairngorm architecture, Singleton, MVC, Spring etc.  • A Wealth of applicable skills along with a Masters in Computer Applications.  • Skilled in creating dynamic web content using Flash, JavaScript, and XML,  • An extensive background of knowledge in E-learning; Proven ability to create high-tech Multimedia Experiences that works.  • Working experiences in USA, UK, India and Sri Lanka for various Flex/Java/ Python project works