Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Lead Programmer Analyst Dallas-Fort Worth, TX Programmer Analyst with 7+ years of experience between Programming, Client Relations and Marketing. Heavily involved with client development, creative marketing strategies and maintaining strong relations between the client and the business. Desire to utilize my creative, communication, marketing and client relations strengths.    Experience Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer DexYP - Dallas, TX September 2018 to January 2019 ? Provided in depth Data Analysis using information provided by the financing team to automate monthly revenue reporting that included creating a live updating monthly bar chart   ? Used python customer segmentation and profiling to aid the marketing teams in determining target groups for advertising campaigns  ? Wrote indepth technical documentation and participated in translation meetings with managers in order to provide an overall understanding of expectations and points of interest for future developing  Programmer Analyst Broadridge Financial Solutions - Coppell, TX January 2012 to July 2018 Overview: Developer responsible for handling over $100 million dollars worth of customer tax, investment, check, letter and statement information for mass printing and electronic delivery using several languages including Python, SQL, .NET, Javascript, Unix and Streamweaver.  ? Lead developer and contact for major corporations such as: Citi Financial, D.A. Davidson, LPL Financial and AXA Advisors, Wells Fargo, Morgan Stanley, Edward Jones, E-trade and Nomura Holdings     ? Trusted to solely on board all D.A. Davidson tax, statements, electronic deliveries, and cloud development. One of the company's largest grossing clients.     ? Automated the Tango+ self service letter application and GUI which allowed the the client and project managers to run over 100 thousand daily letter files hands-free to print, Postedge, Cloud and eDelivery. Saving multiple companies thousands of dollars.  ? Cultivated a relationship with local and international dev teams by providing indepth documentation and training to decrease ramp time   ? Aided in switching the company from Waterfall methodology to Agile due to the ability during sprints to update and debug before products were completed  Technologies Used:   Python  Perl - to aid with the processing of information and reading of data  Unix/Linux  Kornshell - used for NDM node development, and transferring of sensitive binary files   Powershell - GUI interaction   IBM Workflow Scripting - used to communicate with printers locally and across the united states  Javascript - ADOBE PDF development, file conversion C# .NET Developer II Canon - Dallas, TX May 2009 to December 2011 ? Created data models to support software application development projects     ? Optimized software configuration (including application settings, data structures, reporting, defected repair and alternative processes)  ? Converted and refactored existing applications from C# to VB.net   ? Supported the Finance team by rapidly developing business-specific reporting and tools. Partnered with the business to make enhancements to existing tools and reports.  ? Upgraded backend .Net framework in order to handle the increasing customer demands as Canon’s customer base grew  ? Worked closely with UI/UX team members to provide the smoothest, most functional layout and determine the most cost effective virtual machines available.  ? Cloud deployment experience was centered mainly around hybrid deployments, which was the handling of sensitive customer data for purchases but also inner company deployments for long term improvements  ? Automation experience within the confines of reporting certain information through emails or reports using Powershell and light Perl  ? laaS project included testing security by creating a VPN to bot login’s and account creation after a security breach occurred. Basically used the previously created login pages, created a less than 100 line C# program to interact with the html of the site at a regular basis in order to help security stop bots and security breaches  ? ETL experience was mainly used for establishing and maintaining form information for customers when entering name,address,city, states, credit card numbers etc until SQL teams took over maintenance. The goal was to increase the readability and access of logging and error handling.  Technolgies Used:   C# - Database communication, moving the company away from C++ and C languages   .Net/ASP.NET   SQL SQL DBA/ Developer Canon - New York, NY February 2006 to March 2009 Overview: Played a major role in designing, establishing, managing and streamlining processes while drastically decreasing processing times and increasing database security.     ? Acted as a liaison between the business and clients to code and implement Data Import and Reporting Requirements to business-critical systems     ? Interfaced with PostGreSQL/MSSQL/MySQL/Oracle for technical support     ? Applied data modeling techniques to ensure development and implementation support efforts meet integration and performance expectations  ? Built SSIS ETL solutions to collect and store data sets from various customer data sources  ? Modified databases to handle the increased customer base using Object Explorer  ? Utilized restful API to create a uniform interface due to parts of the system being split between a Web API enabling a more layered hierarchy system to be implemented for added security  Technologies Used:   Microsoft SQL Server - Database Management and Communication  C# - Database communication and increasing performance of server Education None in Information Technology New York University - New York, NY January 2006 to May 2008 None in Information Technology North Lake College - Dallas, TX May 2004 Associate Syracuse University - Syracuse, NY Skills Javascript, C#, Python (4 years) Awards 8 time ACE Award Winner