Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - CITI Bank New Jersey Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer CITI Bank - Township of Warren, NJ July 2008 to Present CitiDirect® for Securities is a Web-based portal that offers analytic tools, transaction banking, dynamic information and other online services that securities professionals need to increase efficiency, reduce operating costs and improve performance.    Responsibilities:  • Managed overall responsibility of coordination of implementations of software builds and releases.  • Extensively used XML, DAT & CSV files to transfer data between various modules.  • Gathered business requirements and analyzing it for all consolidated releases.  • Developed security module for user groups and right.  • Developed critical real time swift Message translation and processing using Python Libraries.  • Worked with team on System Integration testing (SIT), User Acceptance Testing (UAT) and production deployment team for testing, deployment and business validation.  • Co-ordinations with Release management  • Modified the modules as per requirement.  • Automation using Python Script.  • Written Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Work closely with infrastructure and DBA team to fix the issue and creating and updating documents, run books etc.  • Contribute to positive and cohesive team.  • MIS system design ( Python Object Oriented Design approach, developing various modules/packages/utilities, erg.: Cryptography - Encryption/Hashing, Foundation Utilities, Personnel management, error/exception management etc.).  • Written complex stored procedures, views and triggers.  • Developed generic file processing module to process files received from various sources.    Technologies  Python, Microsoft Windows 2008 Server, IBM DB2, Unix, SQL Server 2008. MQ and KDB & VSS, Net Developer CITI Bank - Township of Warren, NJ March 2008 to July 2008 Responsibilities:  ? Designing new modules.  System has added new functionality: Design modules functionality and integrated to existing system.  ? Interfaces conversion from Planview product to Data warehouse (DWH),  ? Developed complex stored procedure.  ? Developed views for MIS reports.  ? Migrated database objects like stored procedure, views, tables, indexes and error handling routines.    Technologies  C#.NET, ASP .NET, Microsoft Windows 2000 Server, XP, Oracle 9i & 10g, Sql Server 2005.  Unix, Perl script, VSS, MQ. Net Developer ABN AMRO Bank - Amsterdam, NL July 2006 to February 2008 The Wholesale unit of bank has identified the need of Tracking, Recording and reporting all their Audit Reports and their related findings in a central repository. This system will keep track of all operational risks with their history and current status, the system is hence being able to, at any time generate basic Audit Reports and its relative Audit Findings that would give the end user an overview of all the deficiencies and their ongoing status. Role based access is implemented so that only users with access rights to the modules will be allowed to view the module.  1. Data Migration from MSSQL to Oracle database by using DTS tool.  2. Performance optimization by enhancing no of concurrent users from 25 to 100-150.    Responsibilities:  ? Analysis for phase III change requests and performance issue  ? Requirement gathering for Phase V, VI & VII  ? Gathered specific requirements from clients, design & review requirements and passed to offshore development team  ? Developed complex stored procedure.  ? Developed triggers for daily transactions call.  ? Developed views for MIS reports.  ? Design new tables, views and indexes as per enhancement  ? Enhanced the performance by modifying database objects like stored procedure, views, indexes etc.    Technologies  VB.NET, ASP .NET, Microsoft Windows 2000 Server, Sql Server 2000. Db2, Unix, VSS. Sr. Project Analyst BNP Paribas April 2005 to June 2006 BNP Paribas, Paris has bunch of office applications which has been developed in various versions of Delphi win32 (4/5/6) using BDE. These applications require to be migrated from win32 platform to .net without reengineering and eliminate the Borland Database Engine (BDE). Project also required to setup test cases for each applications using Test Director. Also need to migrate the BNP components used in each application to .net platform.    Responsibilities  ? Analysis and gathered specific requirements from clients, design & review requirements and passed to offshore development team  ? Migration of database query (written in application) to stored procedure.  ? Major enhancement in database objects like views, functions and triggers  ? Development of new stored procedure for insert/update/delete functionality.  ? Quality assurance for all phases of the migration  ? Coding & review for .net components, pointers replacements, BDE replacement with ODAC, OLE functionality, database connectivity etc.  ? Writing test cases for all major functionality of the application  ? Testing, Regression testing and debugging.    Technologies  Delphi.Net, Delphi 5/6, Oracle 9i, Windows XP/NT Software Engineer Clinphone April 2004 to March 2005 Maintenance & New module/Functionality Development for a UK based organization, specializing in products for Clinical Trial business, addressing needs of pharmaceutical companies across the globe.    Responsibilities:  ? Design & develop modules like Winni, spell check, upload and download clinical docs, data binding, rep manager control etc.  ? Modified database design as per enhancement  Modified various triggers, functions, views & stored procedure as per enhancement  ? Design new tables, indexes as per enhancement  ? Coding for new modules / functionality and review code for other team members.  ? Unit Testing, Preparing Implementation Specification Doc & Unit Test Plan docs.  ? Validation Test Plan.  ? Regression testing and debugging    Technologies  Delphi 7/2005, SQL Server 6.5, 2000, Advantage Database Server, Windows 2000 Software Engineer Clinphone October 2003 to August 2004 This software is used for sending bulk SMS through GSM Modem, Track for incoming SMS, SMS for personal contacts, Retrieve information from database through SMS. E-mail alertes etc.  Responsibilities  ? Design the Multi Thread modules  ? Developed Stored procedures & triggers  ? Involved in database design  ? Design new tables & views  ? Design and Developed SMS sending and receiving modules  ? Developed E-mail alerts and incoming processor  ? Design UI for contacts and server module  ? Error/Exceptions handling routines  ? Various testing and implementations    Technologies  Delphi 7, Oracle 9i, Windows 2000 Software Engineer Clinphone December 2002 to October 2003 Smart Locker Management, Software Engineer    This software used to control customers inbound/outbound calls, import of customer sales data and from this data generates point statement. It also supports for campaign management and task management services. It has powerful customer query wizard, which can have used to reply customer's query efficiently. This software is made to maintain the security of lockers by fingerprint identification. Account holders are enrolled through fingerprint. Provision is also made for other functions of bank like allotment of lockers; operate lockers through verification (fingerprint), attachment and closet of lockers.    Responsibilities  ? Developed UI for Inbound/Outbound screen  ? Developed procedure for import of sales data  ? Design tables, indexes for database  ? Design and tested customer's query module  ? Analysis of Campaign Management and Task Management  ? Point history and statements  ? Code review and testing  ? Developed account holder's enrollment screen through which all members are enrolled by fingerprint.  ? Development of triggers, indexes and views.  ? Manage all feedback from team members.  ? Design and developed other modules like Fingerprint verification, lockers allotments.    Technologies  Delphi 7, Oracle 8, Windows 2000 Education Master of Science Mumbai University Bachelor of Science Mumbai University Additional Information Professional Skills    Domain Banking & Securities, Finance & Account, Retail & Pharmacy.  Programming Languages Python, C#.Net, VB.Net, Visual Basic 5/6 and ASP.Net, Delphi.Net, Delphi 5/6/7/2005, ANSI C, C++ and Pascal  Operating System Unix, Windows 95/98/2000/XP & DOS  Database Oracle 9i, 10g, SQL Server 7.0/2000/2005/2008, DB2 and Interbase 6.5  Automation Tool ITRS, Site Scope  Tools /Packages/ETL  FoxPro 2.6, Paradox 7.0, Ms-Access 2000, VSS 6.0, Pascal Analyzer 3.0, TOAD, PL-SQL Editor, Test Director, Model Maker 6.0 &MemProof, AbinItio.    Scripting Python, Java script, Shell Script