J2EE Developer J2EE <span class="hl">Developer</span> Responsible professional with more than twelve years working in Computer Science Miami, FL I am highly adaptable to new challenges and combined with my self-taught skills I have a very fast learning curve in new subjects. I have confidence that I can add to projects my extensive knowledge, experience in IT infrastructure and desire to change career to software development, bringing new ideas, different perspectives and delivering exceptional work as a full-stack or back-end programmer. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience J2EE Developer 2016 to Present SailAway Project - Involved in the full-cycle from requirement analysis, design to deployment of Java website to help the boating community in planning, creating and managing chart plotting, inventory control, and service due date alarms. Designing and developing dynamic web pages using JSF and system using JSPs, Servlets. Implemented Spring Hibernate ORM tool mapping Java classes with database and using Hibernate query language (HQL). Application testing and troubleshooting/debugging.  Technologies: J2EE, Hibernate, NetBeans, MySQL, Chrome Dev Tools, Oracle GlassFish Server    https://stpete.duckdns.org:8181/sailaway  (username: test , password: test123) Android Developer 2016 to Present Car-Multimedia Project - Android app to automate Kodi (HTPC software) playback when used in vehicles. The software monitors some Android events, through system calls, to properly control the player state. It also monitors the current playlist, the track being played and current playback time to automatically resume Kodi when needed. All interaction with Kodi is done using REST calls and JSON data format.  Technologies: Java, JSON, Android Studio, Kodi (API integration using REST), Chrome Dev Tools Python Developer Miami, FL 2018 to 2018 Software to scrap Real Estate website with the goal to extract data for further analysis by BI tools. The software uses the Scrapy framework to collects data across different pages using XPATH and REGEX to locate, transform and extract them.  Technologies: Python, PyCharm, Scrapy Framework Project Manager Central Bank of Brazil - Brasilia January 2009 to October 2017 Participated for two years in a software development project, from the start, as a Scrum Project Owner. The software was developed to integrate with the Unified Communication system and was responsible for managing, controlling, billing, and accounting users expenses. During those years I have participated in many Agile Scrum meetings.  In the infrastructure area, I was responsible for receiving institutional demands, researching optimal solution to them, identifying services/equipment/software to be provided by third partners, designing all project phases and managing them during their lifecycle. More than 7000 hours of project management experience distributed in five different projects. Worked in a major project that completely replaced the legacy voice communication infrastructure and implemented new unified communication features in the headquarters plus eleven branches (7500+ people). Conducted a sensitive negotiation with an internal client that substantially reduced the project cost approximately US$2M for the 5 years’ contract. RFPs created in those projects may be provided on request. Network Engineer Central Bank of Brazil - Brasilia August 2007 to January 2009 Responsible for providing third level support, troubleshooting, supporting architectural related and complicated issues with the manufacturer's partner, new project researching, designing and Proof of Concepts on the following solutions: Cisco’s Unified Communication, PfR, GetVPN, etc., Nice System (analog and IP voice recording), IPC Trading Floor Voice Communication, Riverbed (Steelhead). Data Storage Analyst Petrobras S/A - Rio de Janeiro March 2006 to February 2007 Administration and second level support of storage infrastructure located in Petrobrás headquarters. The storage infrastructure was comprised of: switches Cisco MDS, EMC Symmetrix and Clariion, NetApp and Hitachi storage. Education Master's in MBA USF Saint Petersburg - Saint Petersburg, FL August 2018 to March 2020 Bachelor's in Computer Science Universidade Estácio de Sá - Rio de Janeiro January 2002 to December 2005 Skills Javascript, Git, HTML 5, Android, PHP, jQuery, Ruby (1 year), Ruby on Rails (1 year), SQL, MySQL, Python, TensorFlow, React, Project Management, Scrum, Windows Server, Unix, Cisco Unified Communication, API, JSON, J2EE, REST Additional Information I have been working for the last years as a Project Manager in computer infrastructure projects, where I have developed strong analytical and strategic thinking as well as interpersonal and communication skills. This has inspired the ability to recognize, negotiate, perform, and fulfill requirements in order to achieve the project's goals, ultimately the corporate interests. I believe these skills have a strong correlation to software development. I took the opportunity of moving to a new country to look for a new horizon in my career and software development was always present in my life, although not professionally.    As for the hard skills required for the position (Java, JavaScript, Python, iOS & Android application design and development, etc.), I believe that I have a good level to start working and quickly improve with training and hard work. By the way, I have full-time availability for training and traveling if necessary during this time.    I can assure you that, in a career-changing transition that I am going through, I am willing to show all the best I have and committed to delivering high performance and quality work. In that way, you will find me to be energetic, confident, and personable, the type not only as an employee but also as a person on whom your company may strongly rely. I truly believe that my knowledge, experiences, associated with my top qualities will allow you the versatility to place me in a number of contexts, with confidence that the level of excellence you expect will be met.