Job Seeker Redmond, WA • Over 7+ years of experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Management and Implementation of various stand-alone, client-server enterprise applications.  • Good experience of software development in Python and Many of its libraries- Beautiful Soup, Numpy, scipy, matplotlib, Pandas data frame, network, urllib2, MySQL dB for database connectivity and IDEs - Canopy(EPD), Spyder, Sublime Text, PyCharm, Emacs.  • Good Experience in Python, Django, Zope, Pyramid Framework  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, PHP, C++, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Experience in analyzing and handling datasets using SQL, MySQL, SQL, Server, Oracle 10g, 11g.  • Have good knowledge on NoSQL databases like Cassandra, MongoDB.  • Good knowledge in maintaining various version controls systems such as SVN (Centralized Version Control System) and GIT (Distributed Version Control System).  • Have very good Knowledge of Agile Methodologies (Scrum).  • Good experience in Python, Django, Shell Scripting, SQL Server, UNIX and Linux.  • Expertise in Object-Oriented design and coding. Good knowledge of various Design Patterns and UML.  • Experienced in writing SQL Queries, Stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, triggers.  • Have good idea about development tools like BugZilla, Jira, Confluence, and Axosoft.  • Knowledge of the software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), Agile and Waterfall Methodologies.  • Good understanding of Django ORM.  • Good knowledge of Apache Tomcat, Web logic Servers.  • Understanding of Python best Practices (PEP-8)  • Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Experienced in requirement gathering, Use case development, Business Process flow, Business Process Modeling: extensively used UML to develop various use cases, class diagrams and sequence diagrams.  • Good idea about testing tools like BugZilla, JIRA.  • Skilled in debugging/troubleshooting issues in complex applications.  • Experienced in Unit testing, Integration testing, User acceptance testing, Functional testing.  • Active Participation in Full development life cycle (requirements, design, architecture, development, testing).  • Thorough knowledge in various front end tools like HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript, XML, JQuery, Angular JS, and AJAX.  • Hands-on experience in writing and reviewing requirements, architecture documents, test plans, design documents, quality analysis and audits.  • Good working knowledge on Web Services, SOAP, XML, XSLT and UDDI.  • Extensive knowledge of J2EE Architecture (JSP, JDBC, Data Source, JNDI, JMS, Servlets, ).  • Configured JDBC and JMX in tomcat to connect with Data base like oracle and MySQL.  • Experience in working with different operating systems Windows 98/NT/2000/XP/Vista/7/8, UNIX.  • Expert in maintaining technical documentation for projects.  • Excellent analytical and problem solving skills and ability to work on own besides being a valuable and contributing team player.  • Excellent Interpersonal and communication skills, efficient time management and organization skills, ability to handle multiple tasks and work well in a team environment. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Unicon, Inc - Gilbert, AZ March 2015 to Present Description: Unicon understands technology. Since 1993, Unicon has provided technology services and solutions to hundreds of clients, including major universities and colleges, Fortune 100 companies, and global publishers. Unicon offers IT services and support, specializing in open source projects. Unicon's wide range of services helps enterprises maximize the benefits of open source software. We build custom solutions for clients by successfully integrating technologies to form complex, reliable systems. Unicon deploys quality, reliable, on-time, high-performance software, providing a satisfying user experience.  Role: Data Integration Specialist  Responsibilities:  • Used Django framework for application development.  • Developed user interface using, CSS, HTML, JavaScript and JQuery& Ruby on rails.  • Assisted in reduction of cost and optimization of supplier selection for the CRM Applications.  • Ensured high quality data collection and maintaining the integrity of the data.  • Cleaned data and processed third party spending data into maneuverable deliverables within specific formats with Excel macros and python libraries.  • Used several python libraries like wxPython, numPY and matPlotLib.  • Involved in environment, code installation as well as the SVN implementation.  • Build all database mapping classes using Django models and cassandra.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code  • This project also used other technologies like JQuery for java script manipulations, bootstrap for the front-end html layout.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Developed, tested and debugged software tools utilized by clients and internal customers.  • Coded test programs and evaluated existing engineering processes.  • Designed and configured database and back end applications and programs.  • Performed research to explore and identify new technological platforms.  • Collaborated with internal teams to convert end user feedback into meaningful and improved solutions.  • Resolved ongoing problems and accurately documented progress of a project.    Environment: Python 2.7, scipy, Pandas, BugZilla, SVN, C++, Java, JQuery, MySQL, Linux, Eclipse, Shell Scripting, HTML5/CSS. Red hat Linux, Apache RUBY, Cassandra Python Web Application Developer State Street Financial Corp - Boston, MA January 2014 to March 2015 Boston, MA Jan 14 - Mar 15  Description: State Street is the engine that powers the world's investments. And it holds and manages money for millions of people, clients and their clients. We develop solutions to meet the client's challenges. We're responsible for 11 percent* of the world's assets.  Role: Python Web Application Developer  Responsibilities:  • Created Project/Data management applications to track complex scientific research  • Designed and developed the application architecture ranging from Database schema, application logic to user interface  • Deployed applications using Django framework  • Designed the Database schema using MySQL Workbench and created Database using MySQL  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects  • Projects involved continue backing up of databases in a master-slave setup. Experience using queries to maintain and updated Database  • Experience using mod WSGI with Apache to deploy applications  • Modified applications to transition from Apache to Gunicorn and Nginx  • Setup applications to render python app files from Gunicorn and static files from Nginx  • Used GITHUB and Gitlab rigorously to submit code for review, unit testing and deployment  • Developed Application logic using Python 3.3 and Django framework  • Developed rich user interface using HTML, CSS, JS, AJAX, Bootstrap for scientific applications  • Integrated JQuery plugins for visualizing complex scientific processes along with features like nested commenting system, LDAP integration  • Extensive use of Linux shell along with scientific Linux  • Developed visually appealing applications, to visualize and allow downloading high volumes of data in various file formats    Environment: Python 2.7, Django, Scientific Linux, Apache, Gunicorn, Nginx, MySQL Python Application Developer Credit Suisse - Raleigh, NC September 2012 to December 2013 Raleigh, NC Sep 12 - Dec 13  Description: Credit Suisse is a leading global private bank and wealth manager with distinctive investment banking capabilities, founded in 1856, we today have a global reach with operations in over 50 countries and 48,200 employees from over 150 different nations.  Role: Python Application Developer  Responsibilities:  • This project is to automate the validation of a website and API runtime is consistent to client's SLAs. (Service Level Agreements)  • Designed and developed a testing suite using Python to perform an automated test for testing every function of the website.  • Used Eclipse and Unix Shell for development environment.  • Wrote a full Python Module to extract data from the MySQL source database.  • Used the UNIX shell to run the Python module to generate .JSON files.  • The modules are used to validate the .JSON files created for multiple data pulls on a given day.  • Developed Business Logic using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Periodically committed code to GitHub and SVN for peer review.  • Good knowledge of n-tier enterprise application architecture concepts and SOA paradigms.  • Used DjangoDatabase API's to access database objects. Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Operating Systems Windows XP/7, Red Hat Linux, HTML, Python, Shell, MySQL, SQLite, TCP/IP SQL  Programming Languages C, C++, Python, Java, Shell Scripting, Django  Web Technologies HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, XML, DOM, AJAX, jQuery, JSON and CSS Bootstrap.  Frameworks Django, Flask, Pyramid, PyJamas, Jython, Angular JS, Node JS, Spring, Hibernate  Webserver Apache HTTP webserver, WebLogic, WebSphere, JBoss and Apache Tomcat  IDE Eclipse, webstorm, Sublime Text, Brackets, Pycharm, Pystudio, Pyscripter.  Analytic Tools Google Analytics Fiddler  Cloud Computing AWS EC2, S3, RDS(MY SQL), SQS  Deployment Tools Heroku, Amazon EC2, Jenkins and Fabric  J2EE JDBC, JNDI, JSP and servlets  Databases Oracle 8i/9i/10g/11g, MySQL, SQLite, Cassandra, Redis and mongo DB  Testing Tools Bugzilla, Jasmine, Pyunit, JIRA and Junit  Protocols TCP/IP, HTTP/HTTPS, SOAP  Miscellaneous Git, SVN, CVS