Sr. Application Developer /Architect Sr. Application <span class="hl">Developer</span> /Architect Sr. Application Developer /Architect - Bank of America Charlotte, NC IT professional with over 10 years of experience in Application Analysis, Architecture. Design, Development, Integration, Deployment and Maintenance/Support of IT Systems and Applications. Hands on experience with software development using agile methodology. Experience in leading teams to build Enterprise technology solutions for Financial, Life Science, Retail, Healthcare and IT services industries. Experience in Server Administration in Amazon Cloud and managed hosting environments. Work Experience Sr. Application Developer /Architect Bank of America - Charlotte, NC August 2013 to Present Web application development using python. Work with team of developers on enterprise wide web applications supporting RISK line of business. Design automation testing suit using unittest framework and selenium. This python based application is built on bank's proprietary cloud platform using flask framework. Used SQLAlchemy ORM toolkit to communicate with SQL Server and NoSQL object data store.  I also analyze various cross-functional, multi-platform applications systems enforcing python's best practices and provide guidance in making long term architectural design decisions. I also participate in development of application architecture and blueprints to define application components, platforms, interfaces and development tools. I provide technical guidance to developers and give inputs on integration and conversion issues. I participate in mapping technology-independent applications architecture to the chosen technology platform to advance business goals rather than to place arbitrary restrictions on the choices of development teams. I also get engaged in the design of the architecture of the hardware environments based on usage estimation and Disaster recovery guidelines as well as motivate the teams to follow best practices in software development  Environment: Python, Java, Flask, KnockoutJS, jQuery, JSON, REST, MS SQL Server, SQLAlchemy, JIRA Lead Python Developer/Scrum Master Rackspace Hosting - San Antonio, TX March 2013 to August 2013 Design and implementation of Restful web services for analysis of usage and system data generated by openstack products to support Rackspace internal applications for customer support team. Wrote map-reduce jobs to process and extract user log data into HBase data store for further application usage. Synch MongoDb with HBase data store by running queries using Hbase's thrifty API. Responsibilities include Worked closely with product team to define technical requirements and generate sprint and product backlogs, assign priorities to support volatile business needs. Plan development sprints and manage software development process using JIRA. Design the architecture and lead the development team using scrum methodologies. Create API documentations for UI team. Configured Jenkins for continues integration. Write JMeter scripts to perform automated load testing on the web services. Managed project schedules and prepare weekly burn down charts for effective sprint planning.  Environment: Python, Flask, MongoDB, Hbase, Hadoop, Map-Reduce, Jenkins, Git, Linux, MacOS, JMeter, Openstack, JIRA Sr. Python Developer Inmar Inc - Salem, NC July 2012 to March 2013 Design and Development of highly scalable cloud based web services API to support Inmar's digital promotion network using DJango framework. Follow agile practice to release high quality software on regular basis. Work closely with UI Team to integrate web services with mobile and web front ends. Work closely with Dev ops team for writing chef recipies for configuration and deployment in AWS environment and monitoring of the system performance using New Relic. Responsibilities also include working with client ops to resolve critical production issues supporting end clients.  Environment: Python, Django, MySQL, MS SQL Server, Chef, New Relic, JIRA, SVN, IBM Rational Clearquest, AWS, Linux. Sr. Software Engineer APS HealthCare - Columbia, MD May 2011 to July 2012 Worked on customization of web based care management application in an agile environment. This application is used for requesting authorization for the medical procedures by medical providers. My responsibilities include working with business analyst to implement the technical requirement. Write python modules to implement the work flow process for this application. Configure application server for the development and deployment in non prod environments. Develop various DTML documents to generate authorization request forms on the front end. Write ZSQL queries to communicate with object db and SQL queries to MS SQL server. Integrate soap service with the middleware to handle life cycle of an authorization process.  Environment: Python, SQL Server 2008, SVN, SOAP, JavaScript, XML, SVN, JIRA, Eclipse, Agile Methodology, Object Oriented Application Development. Lead Software Engineer/Sys Admin/Lead QA Knewco Inc - Rockville, MD May 2006 to April 2011 KnowNow" is the flagship semantic analysis service of Knewco. Being part of the founding technical team of a start up, I worked on the core web services that powered the knownow. This software evolved from python based services deployed within ZOPE server using ZODB, LDAP and MySQL data store to a java/j2ee based semantic analysis services developed using spring framework and deployed in tomcat using apache LUCENE and MySQL as persistent data store. System does semantic analysis of the publisher content and recognizes important concepts on the page and disambiguates them.  I consumed the data dumps from UMLS, PubMed and MeSH thesaurus provided by National Library of Medicine and processed it along with protein and genes taxonomy like UniProt to generate unique proprietary thesaurus with factual and co-occurrence information about medical/life science concepts to be used for further semantic analysis.  I developed ad-service gateway implementation to fetch contextual ads pertaining to from third party ad-networks asynchronously to render on publisher page. This implementation is designed and implemented to be used as part of the suit such that one can easily add/remove any new ad network service to the system.  I have been working as software engineer/Sys admin for the various server environments including Amazon cloud and also managed hosted environment. I initiated the entire process of creating the data center environment in Amazon cloud. I was responsible for creating various EC2 instances for different needs. Based on the requirements of the resources, I chose the right AMI with right OS (Ubuntu, windows, Centos) and configured it according to the need. I also created Elastic Volumes, Security groups, elastic IPs and configured it with the cloud instances. Also, Performed System administration duties on RHEL servers, CISCO firewall and Load balancer remotely located in managed hosting and co-located facility.  As a Senior Software Engineer/System Administrator, my responsibilities are:  Analyze the business problem, architecture and design of software and hardware systems. This includes design of various software components, following best practices in object oriented software development, sprint planning and making regular production releases. Communicate with business stakeholders to understand business needs and integrating it in sprint planning. Design and implement of various HTTP and XML-RPC Web services in python, java and deploy them in ZOPE and tomcat respectively. Work with R&D team to develop new algorithms for performance and quality improvement of the concept recognition and disambiguation services. Involved in writing and reviewing JMeter test suits for performance testing under severe user load conditions to comply with SLA contracts. I also wrote shell scripts and configured cronjobs on production and non prod environment for system administration and data backup purposes.  Search for new opportunities for tech team. This required daily interaction with CTO and business team to understand the business flow and analyze the application of technology to increase efficiency in a business work flow. Lead distributed QA team to develop UA Test cases to manage signoff on new releases and roll out production releases.  Environment: Python, Java, Spring, Open LDAP, J2EE, tomcat6.0, LUCENE, apache SOLR, JavaScript, XML, MySQL, AWS, Linux, SVN, JMETER, Agile Methodology Software Engineer Decision Technologies International - Poughkeepsie, NY June 2003 to May 2006 Developed content management and Procurement web application for state of New York. The application contains various modules such as Purchase Order Manager, Procurement manager, Inventory Store Manger, Fleet Manager. Worked on J2EE and Python projects in an agile team to developed web based procurement management system used for supply-chain management. Define technical requirements, review of System Specification. Design application UML diagram and write work-flow modules in python for procurement and asset/Inventory management process. Deploy python modules on ZOPE App server. Design large database table structure to support the web application.  Designed and developed a JAVA based persistent manager to be used in the enterprise wide applications to read XML data format and persist it in relational database using EJB. Developed an XML based custom reporting tool using Apache Cocoon Framework.  Maintained a C++ based content management web application deployed in IIS server and customized version of SQL-ledger based application deployed in apache. Performed production application debugging at client site, bug analysis and resolution. Responsible for administrative duties performing on PostgreSQL database using Database modeling tools such as PgAdminIII. Performed Administrative duties on internal postfix mail server on Slack ware Linux environment, configuration of Spam assassin for email server and carried out routing network maintenance tasks.  Environment: Perl, IIS, C++, Python, Java, XML, XSLT, Python, ZOPE, Plone, Cocoon, Tomcat, Jboss, MySQL, MS SQL server 2000, Linux, CVS, Postfix. Java Developer IBM - Poughkeepsie, NY May 2001 to May 2002 Worked as team lead on IBM/Marist joint study Emmy Award Digital video library project.Developed and deployed a J2EE based Streaming media web application using Enterprise java beans (EJB), deployed on Web Sphere Application Server and ZLinux/S-390 platform. This application let users search and stream rich media contents from Darwin stream server and Video charger stream server. Designed and configured DB2 database on local system and IBM S-390 mainframe. Performed Deployment of the application and servers on S-390/Red Hat Linux. Developed database schema, wrote SQL queries and stored procedures for DB2.I also wrote Javascript, JSPs and Servlets in the client-server environment. Also exploit IBM's proprietary EMB technology, an extension of EJB.  Environment & Tools: S-390, Z-Linux, XML, EJB, J2EE, Java, WebSphere, DB2, Darwin media server, Visual Age For java. Education MS in Computer Science Marist College December 2001 BS in Electrical Engineering Gujarat University - Ahmedabad, Gujarat 1996 to 1999 Skills Application Architect, AWS, Python, Java, Flask, Django, Spring, Java script, OOD, Linux, Open source, No SQL, MySQL, Hadoop, Openstack, Risk Additional Information Technical Skills:  Operating Systems Windows, UNIX, Linux (RHEL, Ubuntu, CentOS)  Principles & Methodologies Agile/Scrum, OOD, REST, TDD  Frameworks/Architectures DJANGO, Flask, ZOPE, Plone, Spring, MVC, SOA, REST, SOAP  Storage MySQL, MongoDB, Hbase, Hadoop, Netezza, SQL Server 2000, DB2  Language/API/Technology JAVA, Python, C, C++, SQL, Java script, Servlets, JSP,J2EE, RMI, AJAX, LUCENE, SOLR,AWS, SVN, Git, Jenkins, Selenium, bootstrap, jQuery  Web/App Servers Apache, Tomcat, nginx, Jetty, Websphere, JBOSS