Python Programmer <span class="hl">Python</span> Programmer Python Programmer Eureka Springs, AR Technically sophisticated programming professional with solid history of effective code development, integration, qualification, and testing of innovative applications and systems. Comprehensive knowledge software development life cycles and success in an engineering development environment. Repeated success guiding migration from legacy systems to updated, emerging technologies. Skilled collaborator and project leader; able to direct multiple tasks effectively and readily master innovative software and tools.  Application Design & Development / Project Management / Software Testing & Troubleshooting User Training & Support / Client Requirements Definition /Performance Optimization Tool Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Programmer Yuma Union High School District November 2011 to June 2017 using PyQT - Telecommute  Technical Scope: Linux; PostgresSql; Python; PyQt; Mercurial (Code Repository); Apache Web Server; FogBugz (Bug Tracking System); XMachine / X2Go Virtual Machines - Telecommute; Putty  Accomplishments:  • Responsible for the design, development and maintenance of Vendor Maintenance, Non-Stock Requisition, Change request for the Non-Stock Requisition, District Inventory Requisition, Student Nutrition, Facilities and Payroll Balancing applications used by the schools in the district.  • Wrote multiple models for a custom application using Python for both the backend and the UIs.  • For each module consulted with the user to determine their needs; designed a solution; discussed the solution with the team, making changes if needed; designed all the tables; TDD; code review and implementation.  • Created Python plugins for a custom Python reporting system.  • Added new Python functions for a table custom widget and worked on Python pdfserver.  • Used the Debian Python package.  • Wrote UI/UX test protocols using the Debian package, including python-hypothesis, python-pytest and python-mock.  • Worked on full stack Python development using the Micro Framework web.py. Started to convert the stack to Flask when my position ended due to budget cuts.  • Created customized reporting packages using LibreOffice templates, a custom Python application for data integration and Celery to convert the data format from *.odt to *.pdf.  • Designed and created PostgresSql tables, the table privilege, custom views and triggers.  • Created/maintained the rules to route records for approval using a custom python Rules system.  • Utilized threads to create multiple vouchers.  • Supported user issues as reported and made changes as needed.  • Trained users in application rollouts and updates. Python Developer/Config Engineer for Custom Full Stack Steeprock Inc June 2007 to November 2011 Telecommute  Technical Scope: Linux; SQL Server; Python/Django; Bazaar (Code Repository); Apache Web Server; Bugzillia (Bug Tracking System); Citrix VPN - Telecommute; Putty  Accomplishments:  • Configured new Pharmaceutical Clients to use a custom Python framework application.  • Provided technical leadership and collaborated with client facing team to gather client requirements and translate them into actionable items. Monitored design evolution changes to ensure formal change management is initiated and completed.  • Ensured high software quality by incorporating code reviews and working closely with the Quality Assurance team.  • Developed a Python program to segment the data based on Therapeutic Area to minimize the number of websites per client.  • Implemented the routing rules for approvals for clinical trials and grants.  • Created standalone custom Python programs such as processing an incoming file or producing an outgoing file.  • Used Python to develop client reports.  • Primary interface for client change requests and management, and made client requested changes as required.  • Created logins for web applications.  • Participate in technical specifications reviews to better understand the project and to help assist the Client Facing team to create better specifications.  • Work with other teams when a requirement involves work from multiple teams. Consultant - Telecommute Mind Over Machines April 2005 to April 2007 Technical Scope: Linux; MS NT; ASP.NET with C#; HTML, JavaScript and Ajax; SQL Server with Stored Procedures; Code Smith; Java / JSP Pages; Apache Tomcat / IIS; Citrix VPN - Telecommute; Putty  Accomplishments:  • Ported the JIP program from Linux to Windows. The program was written in Java and JSP running on an Apache Tomcat web server.  • Configured the web.config and $ProjectName.config files.  • Integrated third party modifications to the JIP program. Assisted in designing the online Watermark Reservation System from both a database and code perspective.  • Assisting in writing the technical specifications to get client sign off before development work could begin on the Internet based Watermark Reservation system.  • Created a tabbed menu interface for the reservation system using a custom control.  • Created a monthly and daily calendar interface using Ajax.  • Created stored procedures of varying complexity to handle all data manipulations and used Code Smith to generate the C# code to facilitate development.  • Created typed data sets to use with the store procedures.  • Used a variety of Web Controls including: drop down lists, check boxes, list boxes, repeaters, data lists and data grids.  • Used VAM Professional Validation and More and Peter Blum's Date control sets.  • Used Free Text Box to accommodate the user entering formatting text.  • Created html formatted files for reports that are then converted to PDF for printing, emailing or saving. Created a list box of existing reports, so previous versions can be viewed.  • Enabled Email capability from majority of the screens. Consultant Metris Companies February 2005 to April 2005 Technical Scope: Microsoft Windows; Microsoft SQL Server; ASP.Net with VB; Pega; HTML / Java Script  Accomplishments:  • Created a report application to interface with the Pega Database.  • Used stored procedures to pull the data from the database.  • Created the reports in html format which were then converted to PDF for printing, emailing or saving. Saved the location of the existing reports in the database, so previous versions could be accessed.  • Configured the web.config and $ProjectName.config files.  • Made modifications to the Pega system. Internet Sales Supervisor - Telecommute Kerusso April 2004 to January 2005 Technical Scope: Linux; Dream Weaver; HTML / Java Script; MySql Server; PHP; Java / JSP Pages  Accomplishments:  • Built multiple shopping carts for client and attending client meetings as needed.  • Responsible for the company's drop ship program and supported the current web sites. Consultant Walmart December 2003 to March 2004 Technical Scope: HP UNIX; Microsoft NT; Visual Basic 6.0 - Client Software; C - Server Software  Accomplishments:  • Troubleshoot and fix existing bugs on the server side of a Client Server grocery distribution application. Sr. Applications Developer First Data Resources November 1999 to September 2003 Telecommute  Technical Scope: Solaris UNIX; Microsoft Windows; Apache Web Server; Linux; C++ - Client, Server and Standalone Software; ASP.NET with C# - Front end for Instant Credit Applications; Rogue Wave C++ Libraries; Informix Database; Microsoft SQL Server; Informix 4GL - Client, Server and Standalone Software; Citrix VPN to login remotely; F-Secure Shell to access Unix Shells both on site and remotely  Accomplishments:  • Developed a backend server for an instant web enrollment for Speedpass devices.  • Developed a real time and batch process to search the OFAC (known terrorist) databases.  • Developed and implemented an instant credit product for a bank that was utilized via the web, with development mainly in 4gl utilizing C++ functions and interfacing with an Informix database.  • Enhanced the functionality of the driving C++ program for Instant Credit. The enhancements included bullet-proofing the 3270 links and help to redesign the system to be more stable in able to reduce support calls.  • Developed and documented the standards for the 4gl programming team. Was a member of the team that is defining the system processes for the entire Instant Credit System.  • Supported the Instant Credit and the online Speedpass product from both a production and development standpoint.  • Was named Employee of the Month after 3 months. Applications Developer Global Interface Solutions February 1999 to November 1999 Technical Scope: Microsoft NT 4.0; Linux; Visual Studio 6.0 using VC++ - multi-threaded standalone  Accomplishments:  • Made enhancements to a Data Center Management application running under Windows NT.  • Enhancements included: adding a VT100 emulator plug in, adding TAPI functionality and developing an NT Administration module that allows access to remote Telnet, Tasklist, Services, Event Log, Performance Monitor and RegEdit.  • System Administration responsibilities for the UNIX machines. Project Manager MCI WorldCom September 1996 to January 1999 Technical Scope: AIX and HP UNIX; Linux; C and C++ - batch processing  Accomplishments:  • Project Manager / Developer for a Data Warehouse project consisting of 5 individual data marts utilizing a star schema design.  • Met with users to determine requirements; designed systems based on those requirements. Used Erwin to design the database models and created all SDLC requirements documents.  • Interfaced with the Test and Production groups to facilitate the promotion of each project.  • Project Manager / Developer of the project to move 8 Traffic systems running in parallel on IBM AIX machines to one SUN 4000, supporting the DMS and DEX Traffic Systems. Education BS in Computer Engineering University of Tulsa Skills Linux (10+ years), MS SQL Server (10+ years), SQL (10+ years), SQL Server (10+ years), UNIX (10+ years), C++ (4 years), C# (2 years), C (2 years), Python (8 years), PostgresSQL (6 years), QT (6 years), Information Technology (10+ years), Business Analysis (10+ years), Technical Writing (10+ years), Project Management (4 years), 4GL (10+ years), Asp.Net (2 years), Visual Studio (4 years), Sybase (5 years), Informix (4 years), Quality Assurance (10+ years), Usability Testing (10+ years), Telecommunications (4 years), Telecommute (10+ years)