Developer / Maintenance & Support to Application in AbbVie <span class="hl">Developer</span> / Maintenance &amp; Support to Application in AbbVie Developer / Maintenance & Support to Application in AbbVie - TCS Chicago, IL Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Developer / Maintenance & Support to Application in AbbVie TCS - Chicago, IL December 2015 to Present AbbVie is a pharmaceutical company that discovers, develops, and markets both biopharmaceuticals and small molecule drugs. It originated in 2013 as a spin-off of Abbott Laboratories.  IT SME (Subject Matter Expert), SOFTWARE ANALYST, DATABASE ADMINISTRATOR AND DJANGO/ PYTHON DEVELOPER, IT Division  Responsible for providing development, maintenance, and support to Quantum Application System such as attending enhancements, incidents and requests from users in Django/ Python, following Agile Methodology in new version release, creating unit testing for each enhancement in the upcoming version, administrating the database in ORACLE and creating the interface between other applications.  • Work closely with business analysts, quantitative research team, and business users to interpret the requirements and evaluate alternative solutions.  • Create technical design recommendations for developing and integrating programs per written specifications.  • Perform unit testing and system integration testing of the newly developed functionality.  • Examine applications to ensure adherence to Application Engineering guidelines, processes, and procedures.  • Implement and test modifications to existing application modules in accordance with application support and industry standard.  • Evaluate service level issues and suggested enhancements escalated by Service Delivery Team to diagnose and address underlying system problems and inefficiencies.  • Dealt with meetings with other system owners to solve issues related to all of us in which full knowledge of Quantum and the other systems was required in order to solve the issue.  • Established and developed interfaces between others systems as well as the conditions either to receive data in XML format or send monthly reports in a text with specific data from the DB.  • Solve current issues within Quantum such as upload files that were being saved with incorrect values, when creating a Transaction this would use the exchange from the Contract related to it, include leading zeros in reports when exporting them to Excel format, developed an algorithm that would compare the accruals from 2 reports that are monthly created, and so on.  • Attended requests from users such as making customized changes in specific modules in Quantum, added extra information in reports, delivered reports related to current users that were admin and superusers in Quantum, removed data from Quantum's DB in order to make the monthly close correct since sometimes entries were incorrect, and so on.  • Developed enhancements in Quantum for each version release such as adding new ways to search for data based on different inputs, added dynamic filters using AJAX, automatically update data whenever new data came from another system through the interface connection between them, added an auto-fill form whenever a Vendor was selected when creating a Contract, included data in statistical diagram, added new field in DB named as "employee type" and included it in all reports, and so on.  • Dealt with users by having meetings with them in order to fully understand what exactly they wanted for their requirements.  • Dealt with DB error that was caused by another system that send incorrect data into Quantum, analyzed how many records were affected, how many of them got overwritten and how many of them were created, established a DB backup previous to the incident day and developed a Python script that would reverse the all the records as they were.  • Followed Software Development method "Agile" for each Quantum version release and also updated all documents that were affected by the enhancements such as CII (Configuration Item Inventory), Database Design, Detailed Design, Interface Design and URS (User Requirements Specifications), as well as to prepare other required documents such as SIQ (Software Installation Qualification), SCS (System Certification Summary) and UT (Unit Testing).  • Technical Environment: Agile, Django, Python, South, ORACLE, TOAD, HTML, Linux, XML, JavaScript, AJAX. Upgrade Software Administrator OLLIN VFX - Ciudad de México, CDMX October 2014 to May 2015 Ollin VFX Facility is a Visual Effects Company based in Mexico City. Founded in 1998 by VFX Supervisor Charlie Iturriaga, the Company quickly grew and became the largest VFX and Post Production Facility in Latin America.  DJANGO/ PYTHON DEVELOPER, IT Division  Software Upgrade in Django, Python, MySQL & MySQL Workbench of Database Administrator. Responsible in documenting each process of the database methods, build the ERM diagram and migration of methods made in C++ to Python on the framework Django.  • Established and developed the model.py file for the database in Django so it could be administrated online using Django Suit app and made it more user friendly, as well as the view.py file for each method coded in C++ to Python.  • Solved primary key problem in the Many 2 Many relations by applying Django Composite Key app and speed measurement in methods by installing Django Toolbar Debug app which gives detail information of the SQL queries applied to the database and so on.  • Managed to set the server connection with Twisted app for Django and established server requests with XML files.  • Read/understood the methods made in C++ to document them by determining the purpose, initial variables and final results.  • Applied Reverse Engineer method to get all the tables from the database and then related each table.  • Developed MySQL scripts whenever it was needed either to do an update, deletion, aggregation or consult in the database using basic SQL statements such as DDL & DML.  • Technical Environment: Django, Django Toolbar Debug, Django Composite Key, Django Suit, Python, South, MySQL, Workbench, HTML, Linux, XML, Twisted, Centos. DJANGO/ PYTHON DEVELOPER, IT Division World Bank - Ciudad de México, CDMX March 2014 to October 2014 Univision, DATA4 Website), Mexico City, Mexico March 2014 - October 2014  Data4 works in support of private industries and enterprises, governments, NGOs and related civil society organizations, and with anyone with a genuine interest in gathering, processing, analyzing, visualizing and better managing data. Data4 concentrates in Analysis that includes Econometrics & Geolocational Tools Development.  DJANGO/ PYTHON DEVELOPER, IT Division  Responsible of Backend and Frontend for the development of projects using of Django/ Python, HTML, CSS, D3, Bootstrap, JQuery, AJAX, Angular, developed their Data Base structure along with their relationships, queries and network connections using PostgreSQL.  • World Bank of Washington DC: Developed Search Tool website where the user could import new indicators to the Data Base using database statements such as DDL & DML, search through the indicators applying keywords, filters or both, and finally export the entire results to a CSV file or export the desired indicators individually. (link: http://wb.data4.mx/)  • Data4: Developed the database using basic SQL statements such as DDL & DML, as well as the website where the vision and mission of the company are exposed, all the projects that have been carried out to date, blogs made by employees of the company where a particular subject is shared where with a searching tool either by title, date, tag or keywords, overview of the company's employees and tool of contact us. (link: http://data4.mx/)  • Univision "Web Health": Developed the database using basic SQL statements such as DDL & DML, as well as the website where the user was registered either with their account of Facebook, Google+ or not register at all, answered a questionnaire related to their lifestyle (the food they ate daily, who often they exercised a week, etc.), body weight, height, blood pressure, and accordingly an estimated final health score was calculated and gave advice to improve their health if necessary. (link: http://univision.data4.mx/ws_develop/index.php)  • Univision "Voto Latino": Developed the database using basic SQL statements such as DDL & DML, as well as the website where the votes made by Hispanics in the U.S. districts were displayed by their influence in elections, districts where there was more competition, what happened in the elections of 2012 and what might happen in 2014, where D3 was used to represent each district of U.S. with boxes, and by clicking on one of them it would show in detail the information of the votes made. (link: http://univision.data4.mx/voto_latino/index.php)  • Univision "Gobernadores y Senadores": Developed the database using basic SQL statements such as DDL & DML, as well as the website where the candidates for governors and senators on US using a map made in D3 where each state would displayed a detail information of the candidates of each state that was selected by clicking on any state. (link: http://univision.data4.mx/Gobernadores_Senadores/index.php)  • Univision "Sur a Sur": Developed the database using basic SQL statements such as DDL & DML, as well as the website where the migrations that had elapsed from 1960 to 2010 in Latin America and Europe were showed on a map developed in D3, where the country(s) of Origin and Destiny selected by the user were displayed two squares illustrating the Entries and Exits, and by clicking on them it would show in detail the information of the amount of people who either Enter or Exit the country. (link: http://univision.data4.mx/Sur_a_Sur/index.php)  • Used GitHub and Agile to maintain a version order of the software whenever a change was made.  • Technical Environment: Django, Python, D3, Bootstrap, South, PostgreSQL, HTML, CSS, JQuery, AJAX, Angular, Isotope, JavaScript, GitHub, Agile. SERVER ADMINISTRATOR, WEB & DATABASE DEVELOPER, IT Division EFICIENCIA INFORMATIVA - Ciudad de México, CDMX October 2013 to March 2014 Project: Conacyt), Mexico City, Mexico October 2013 - March 2014  Eficiencia Informativa is a leading media monitoring that provides information for decision-making of government, elections, society and individual, institutional and corporate reputation firm.  SERVER ADMINISTRATOR, WEB & DATABASE DEVELOPER, IT Division  Responsible for developing layers in Java, XML, Python & PHP for the website https://data4.efinf.com/reader/web/ as well as providing maintenance and support to the server, additionally implemented installations and updates to the server, resolving issues, restarting Apache and Tomcat.  • Installed Cacti tool to monitor remote server, in order to know the performance such as Disk Space, CPU Utilization, Memory Usage, Average Load, Processors, among others.  • Developed PHP & Python scripts to manage an automated method to measure the servers speed to calculate the time it toke to load web page layers, time to download files, time to generate folders of information, among others, by using Cacti and its plugins, in order to graph the data, get a benchmark and create toll to activate an alarm in case the site is running slow or fell down.  • Developed JSP scripts aside with JSTL and TLD to extract information on both topics and images from magazines and newspapers in the database limited by the date previously selected by the user.  • Manually synchronized similarity readers which contain files (similarity indexes) that are acquired from the server which help to make the Clusters and Strategic Analysis. When applying for clusters the job is partitioned between readers and that's why these rates are the same as those found on the server. This process is performed using the following steps:  1. List readers similarity (more /etc/rsyncd.conf)  2. Check directories with the server directories (ls -l /export/index/clip-sn-index/)  3. If they are different stop the tomcats readers (service tomcat6 stop or /usr/tomcat/bin/shutdown.sh or /etc/init./tomcat stop)  4. Comment tasks ($crontab -l > crontab.tmp, vi crontab.tmp) comment readers with # (#0,5,10,15,20,25,30,35,40,45,50,55 * * * * /usr/local/bin/takesnapshot > /dev/null 2>&1)  5. Check for any run rsync process (ps -Af o ps -Af|grep rsync) if theres a rsync running run the command (svadm disable rsync or kill -9 process id )  6. Clear indices readers from the file export/index/clip-sn-index/ and delete the directories snapshot. date (rm -rf /export/index/clip-sn-index/*, rm -rf /export/index/snapshot. fecha and $ rm -rf /export/index/temp-snapshot. date )  7. On the server run the task manually (usr/local/bin/takesnapshot/)  8. Immediately on the reader then run the task manually (/usr/local/solr/bin/installsnapshot/)  9. List details of the reader in the directory (ls -l /export/index/clip-sn-index) compare with the directory server, if they are different repeat process.  10. Check that the contents of /export/index/ have the directories (clip-sn-index y snapshot. date )  11. Uncomment crontab and return it as it was.  12. Start the tomcat of the readers (service tomcat6 start or /etc/init./tomcat start) y and wait for the message Server startup in number ms  13. Enable the rsync (svadm enable rsync)  • Technical environment: HTML, Ubuntu, Linux Shell, PHPMyAdmin, Apache, Tomcat, Java, PHP, Python, XML, Cacti, SNMP, Terminator, JSP (Java Server Pages), JSTL (JSP Standard Tag Library), TDL (Tag Library Descriptors). WEB & DATABASE DEVELOPER, IT DIvision INDRA - Ciudad de México, CDMX March 2013 to October 2013 Project: Software Development for MAPFRE), Mexico City, Mexico March 2013 - October 2013  Delivered quality, innovative products and services to valued policyholders and clients, continuously promoting the welfare and development of intermediaries.  WEB & DATABASE DEVELOPER, IT DIvision  Responsible of layers development with Java for the needs of the client, as well responsible for developing query's, process and functions in PL/SQL. Particular expertise in implementing classes in Java to do a consult, update, delete or insert into the data base connecting it to PL/SQL packages required to accomplish the purpose.  • Developed various Java applications for data search, file upload, data insertion based on the validation of the user's permissions using Eclipse Juno, Java, PL/SQL Developer and TronWeb System.  • Developed various functions, processes and query's using basic SQL statements such as DDL & DML to solve certain client issues on packages in existence making use of the tool PL/SQL Developer.  • Technical environment: Java, PL/SQL Developer and OOD. OUTSOURCED NETWORK ENGINEER & DJANGO/ PYTHON DEVELOPER, IT Division ORANGE BUSINESS SERVICES - Ciudad de México, CDMX July 2012 to March 2013 Project: Search Tool), Mexico City, Mexico July 2012 - March 2013  Helps companies collaborate more effectively, operate more efficiently and engage better with their customers - connecting their people, sites and machines securely and reliably.  OUTSOURCED NETWORK ENGINEER & DJANGO/ PYTHON DEVELOPER, IT Division  Responsible for providing assistance developing Excel Macros, analysis of monthly performance reports in Latin American networks and networking support. Particular expertise in implementing Macros on Excel for monthly reports and web applications for "Clarify" and data base administration of the telecommunication circuits for each customer develop in the framework Django.  • Developed application search tool for files based on date, case number or costumer ID using AJAX, JQuery, HTML5, JavaScript and Django/ Python.  • Developed the consulting / modifying tool for telecommunication circuits designated for each customer base on the database previously stored in the company's server using the costumers ID or the ID of the circuit to make the search, using basic SQL statements such as DDL & DML, JavaScript, HTML5, AJAX, JQuery and Django/ Python.  • Survey and analyzed requirements using UML design method.  • Technical environment: Excel, Macros, JavaScript, AJAX, JQuery, HTML5, Django, Python, PostgreSQL, Apache Tomcat, OOD and UML. DJANGO/ PYTHON DEVELOPER, IT Division SINTRAFICO - Ciudad de México, CDMX July 2011 to June 2012 Project: Application & Website Development), Mexico City, Mexico July 2011 - June 2012  Sintrafico is committed to offer services of vehicular traffic information in real time and of the highest quality, so that you can spend more time doing what you love and less time in traffic.  DJANGO/ PYTHON DEVELOPER, IT Division  Responsible for developing the website www.sintrafico.com whose purpose is to provide real-time traffic information using Google Maps and global positioning systems. Particular expertise in implementing user interface (UI) components and in developing server-side code for internal and external web applications.  • Added user interface (UI) features and functionalities such as reporting engine to enhance the user experience using Django/ Python.  • Developed the control center for operators in order to monitor the traffic reporters, traffic history information, check out the traffic with security cameras to sort the traffic flow information, updates of events and so on using Django/ Python.  • Developed the registration site for users not only manually but also register by their Facebook / Twitter account using Django/ Python.  • Enhanced user experience with drop-down menus and selection in order so that the user could program their own Traffic Notifications, see their Notifications as well and also check out the traffic reports made by users or our own reporters.  • Developed method to show the traffic status using colored code to indicate the traffic flow, also to show graphic alerts of any type, and finally used Geoserver to show streets names at a giving close-up scale.  • Programed GPS's to send back information of their location, taking into account the time that it toke to go from one point to another, to concluded if the traffic was slow or fluid.  • Developed database functionalities using basic SQL statements such as DDL & DML.  • Survey and analyzed requirements using UML design method.  • Used Agile to maintain a version order of the software whenever a change was made.  • Technical environment: PostgreSQL, Python, Java, AJAX, JavaScript, XML, Json, JQuery, Django, Google Maps, Geoserver, UML, Apache Tomcat, UNIX, OOD, Agile. DATABASE ANALYST & DJANGO/ PYTHON DEVELOPER, IT Division INTCOMEX - Miami, FL September 2009 to June 2011 Miami, USA September 2009 - June 2011  Premiere distribution company serving Latin America and the Caribbean with a wide variety of information technology (IT) products including computer equipment, components, peripherals, mobile devices, software, computer systems, accessories, networking products and digital consumer electronics.  DATABASE ANALYST & DJANGO/ PYTHON DEVELOPER, IT Division  Responsible for the maintenance of the WebStore ensuring to have the products updated in terms of images and specifications, as well as to correct errors and categorize them. Assisted with the implementation of complex stored procedures and advanced queries for the consultation of products.  • Contributed to the design and implementation of an application, database design, store procedures programming and user training using Django/ Python.  • Developed store procedures programming, database design and consultation of products based either on the products name, SKU code or unique product ID.  • Implemented an online shopping site, were user's selected items of their interest and display a resume of the items that where choosed using Django/ Python.  • Developed database functionalities using basic SQL statements such as DDL & DML.  • Survey and analyzed requirements using UML design method.  • Technical environment: Java, HTML5, AJAX, XML, Json, JQuery, SKU Central, Python, PL/SQL, Django, UNIX, UML and OOD. WEB DEVELOPER, IT LOGICAL SYSTEMS DESIGN June 2008 to September 2009 Santiago de Cali, Colombia June 2008 - September 2009  Company specialized in consulting and development of software solutions aimed at optimizing Business Management, increase productivity and profitability offering comprehensive solutions, advise and accompany strategically quality processes, process improvement and application development.  WEB DEVELOPER, IT Division  Responsible for developing applications for the Inventory System of Palmaseca Zone whose purpose was to provide every detail of the products that came into Colombia. Particular expertise in implementing user interface (UI) components and in developing server-side code for internal and external web applications.  • Added user interface (UI) features and functionalities to the Inventory System Website reporting every product entered in the database.  • Contributed to the design and implementation of an application that toke into account details of each product such as standard weight, dimensions, material, company's name of the product that it came from and so on.  • Developed store procedures, database design and consultation of products based either on the products name or unique product ID.  • Technical environment: Java, HTML, Eclipse III, UML, PostgreSQL, PL/SQL, UNIX, Apache Tomcat and OOD. (Government Ministry of Social Housing Secretary), Santiago de Cali SECRETARIA DE VIVIENDA SOCIAL GUBERNAMENTAL June 2006 to June 2008 The Government Ministry of Social Housing Secretary in Santiago de Cali, is responsible for implementing, planning and formulating policies, plans, programs and housing projects in the town, with the main purpose, to ensure a better quality of life for the disadvantaged population.  WEB DEVELOPER & SOFTWARE ANALYST, IT Division  Responsible for implementing user interface (UI) components and in developing server-side code for internal external web applications. Worked as a programmer and was responsible for applying principles of software engineering for the project documentation, also assisted with the implementation of complex stored procedures and advanced queries for the consultation of database information about inhabitants and their status account.  • Added user interface (UI) features and functionalities to the website to report and store every person entered into the database.  • Contributed to apply software engineering principles to develop the project documentation, using methods such as UML, RUP, MER and Microsoft Office.  • Technical environment: UML, RUP, MER, PHP, HTML, PgAdmin, PowerDesigner, Ingravity, Microsoft Office and ORACLE. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science University Pontifice Javeriana 2001 to 2006 Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/bryanuribe Additional Information Technical Skills  • Programming Languages: C#, Java, PHP, C++, Dr. Scheme, Mozart, Python, LISP  • Web: AJAX, JSon, JQuery, JavaScript, CSS, HTML5, XML, Google Maps, Geoserver, Apache, Tomcat, D3, Isotope, Angular, Twisted, JEE6, JDBC, JSF, JSP (Java Server Pages), JSTL (JSP Standard Tag Library), TDL (Tag Library Descriptors)  • Databases: SQL Server, MySQL, PL/SQL, PgAdmin, PostgreSQL, ORACLE, PHPMyAdmin, South, MySQL Workbench, DDL (Data Definition Language) & DML (Data Manipulation Language)  • Tools: MS Visual Studio, Eclipse, UML, Object-Oriented Design (OOD), Cacti, SNMP, Nginx, Gunicorn  • Platforms: Windows, Linux, Debian, Ubuntu, UNIX, Shell, Git Hub, Agile, Git Lab, Mac, Centos  • Frameworks: Django, Django Toolbar Debug, Django Composite Key, Django Suit, Eclipse Juno, MS Visual Studio, PgAdmin, PL/SQL Developer, GNU Emacs 23, Terminator, Sublime Text 3