Senior Developer Senior <span class="hl">Developer</span> Developer | Consultant | Mentor | Craftsman Morton, IL I'm a senior-level software developer with experience across a variety of  industries. While remaining highly technical, I have gained extensive experience communicating with non-technical stakeholders, working within and leading teams, and mentoring individual developers. I am a team player, comfortable adapting to the team dynamic, but also comfortable stepping into a stuck or troubled organization and helping to shape the culture, guiding them toward excellence in software.    I’m especially passionate about software craftsmanship, agile processes,  devops, social networks, and the cloud. For the past few years I’ve been  working with SPA-style applications backed by RESTful microservices, so  topics relevant to this occupy a good deal of my thinking.    If you are seeking a self-directed senior-level software developer able to  contribute to the success of your project or organization, I would like to speak with you. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Developer Odessian, LLC - Peoria, IL April 2014 to Present While employed as a consultant with Odessian, I have been primarily focused on one client, acting as Lead Developer of the team responsible for all  customer-facing web applications. As Lead Developer I am ultimately  responsible for the software my team produces. I spend the bulk of my time  coordinating with other teams, keeping my team unblocked, shepherding our  release cycle, and developing new features. We have developed a suite of SPA-style applications and their ancillary services, which are used by tens of  thousands of users to manage their accounts.    As a member of the Architecture Committee, I assisted the organization in its  transition from a monolithic Windows / .Net solution to a platform-agnostic  microservice architecture. I helped spur the adoption of python. I also guided  the organization toward a devops model and culture, including the adoption of Ansible by Red Hat.    As leader of the organization's Clean Code Initiative, I oversaw the compilation and adoption of a best practices guide. The result has been greater consistency  in the practices and in the software quality among the organization's various  independent software development teams.    As leader of the organization's Developer Apprenticeship program, I have  assisted in creating the program curriculum and have overseen the apprenticeships of three developers, with potentially more on the horizon.    Relevant technologies: python, flask, CoffeeScript, javascript, C#,  microservices, single-page applications, OAuth 2.0, OpenID Connect, linux,  ansible, CI/CD, nginx, uWSGI, RabbitMQ, Microsoft SQL Server, MongoDB Senior Python Developer Live Ace, LLC - New York, NY August 2012 to March 2014 As a founding member of this start-up, I worked with the C-suite to actualize the concept into a social / commerce site paired with a gaming platform. I built the  site from the ground up ( python/django), while the gaming platform is an open  source project that I customized extensively ( python/twisted with javascript/html  front-end). We went from concept to go-live in less than 12 months. Four  months after launch we had over 3500 registered users.    Technologies utilized include python, javascript, jquery, django, twisted, mysql,  AWS cloud, GNU/Linux. Senior Developer Consultant Advanced System Designs - Morton, IL December 2005 to June 2012 As a consultant, my focus, role, and tools shift with each project. What remain  constant are my dedication to solving problems, sound design principles, my  insistence upon a high quality product, and my zeal to continuously improve.    My early career was oriented around the Microsoft .NET technology stack, with which I developed several major applications, both for the desktop and the  browser. Around 2007 I began incorporating free and open source technologies into my repertoire. My experimentation quickly evolved into increasingly open  tech, such as python, Django, PostgreSQL, and GNU/Linux.    While at ASD I worked on a variety of projects, including order-entry systems,  content management systems (CMS), serious games, business intelligence  software (BI), data-entry applications, e-commerce websites, and various other  applications and utilities. I have completed successful projects in a number of industries, including building/construction, retail, healthcare, insurance,  marketing, and manufacturing. Senior Software Engineer, Enterprise Solutions Afni - Bloomington, IL October 2004 to December 2005 Developed a User Management System (C# / .Net) that unified and streamlined the addition and attrition of employees to the organization. Integrated several  disparate systems (time keeping, Active Directory, security badges, HR, etc.) and centralized authentication / authorization mechanisms. Application Specialist -> Senior Software Developer AFFINA - Peoria, IL July 1999 to May 2004 Advanced from inexperienced sub- developer to senior developer over the course of five years. Developed CRM and call-center business applications for  many clients spanning many industries. Led the technology implementation,  roll-out, and maintenance of AFFINA's largest customer at the time,  1-800-MEDICARE. Developed a CRM / call-center application framework using  Microsoft .Net technologies. Skills Architecture (10+ years), Software Development (10+ years), Mentoring (10+ years), Python (10+ years), Javascript (10+ years), Databases (10+ years) Links http://www.bistrotech.net Additional Information Specialties:   system design and architecture   full stack software development  web applications   devops  agile sdlc   technical leadership  coaching / training / mentoring   research and development  open source software   databases