Java Lead Java Lead Java Lead - GoldMan Sachs, SaltLake City Salt Lake City, UT Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java Lead GoldMan Sachs, SaltLake City June 2015 to Present Project: Client Preferences  The Goldman Sachs Group Inc is an American multinational investment banking firm that engages in global investment banking, investment management, securities and other financial services primarily with institutional clients. Client Preferences is the portal where the individual client modules can set their preferences according to their needs. It is the centralized one single portal where all the clients can set their preferences.  Responsibilities:  • It is a brand new project so involved in the requirements gathering and design phase.  • Involved in code and design reviews  • Used AngularJs for building UI components.  • Created web services using JAX-RS.  • Used Spring AOP, JDBC, DAO, IOC and Spring Core modules.  • Implemented the mid-tier in SOA architecture.  • Written complex views, Stored Procedures.  • Created shell scripts and configured them as batch jobs.  • Used JUnit and Spring-test modules.  • Took builds with Jenkins.  • Used Jira ticketing system for assigning tasks.  • Created Maven pom files for building the project.  • Added Sonar plug-in and took reports for auditing.  • Designed the application by implementing many design patterns like Singleton, Factory, Delegate, Façade, Proxy, Builder and Strategy.  Environment: Core Java, J2EE, Spring (AOP, JDBC, CORE, Context), Web Services, Restful, AngularJS, JUnit 4, XMLSpy, SOAPUI, Maven 2.2, Jenkins, Windows 7, Red Hat Linux. Java Lead Anadarko Petroleum Corporation - Houston, TX July 2014 to May 2015 Project: EMOC  Anadarko Petroleum Corporation is an American oil and gas Exploration Company and one of the world's largest publicly traded oil and gas exploration and production companies, so it has onshore and offshore facilities, each offshore process requires to place a request and get approvals from each respective departments, the EMOC is the platform where they can raise requests and get approvals from the responsible teams and even they can upload any critical documentation to the documentum from this application.  Responsibilities:  • As it is the rewriting the total application so need to understand the existing source and DB schema also need to do impact analysis a lot.  • Involved in code reviews and design reviews.  • Used Prime faces and JSF2.0 for UI development.  • Used Spring AOP, Spring JDBC, Spring DAO, Spring Context and Spring Core.  • Used Jersey API for restful web services.  • Implemented SOA architecture for web service development and used SOAP over HTTP to communicate between services.  • Created Jasper reports and merging reports performed by iReports api.  • Written JMS publisher and subscriber related code, also configured Queue on the servers.  • Written Database Views to improve the SQL statements reusability.  • Used JUnit4 for Unit Testing.  • Involved in bug fixing.  Environment: Core Java, J2EE, Spring (AOP, JDBC, CORE, Context), Web Services, Restful, JSF2.0, JUnit 4, XMLSpy, SOAPUI, Maven 2.2, Jasper, iReport, JMS, Jenkins, Windows 7, Red Hat Linux Java Lead The Vanguard Group - Wayne, PA October 2013 to July 2014 Project: Voyager Client  The Vanguard Group is an American investment management company, it has variety of clients, so there is a client type called Voyager clients, so we are developing a complete system for this new clients, the work is involved to gather the requirements from business and need to implement the same.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in analyzing the requirements of customer and incorporating the same functionality in the project.  • Involved in impact analysis for the changes.  • Involved in code reviews and design reviews.  • Used Spring AOP, Spring JDBC, Spring DAO, Spring Context and Spring Core.  • Used Apache Axis2 for developing SOAP protocol based Web services.  • Implemented SOA architecture for web service development and used SOAP over HTTP to communicate between services.  • Developed WSDL's XSD using XMLSPY and SOAP UI used for analyzing the service calls.  • Provided multi-threading capabilities to the application and synchronized the shared resources  • Used JUnit4 for Unit Testing.  • Developed ANT Script for deployment.  • Involved in bug fixing.  Environment: Core Java, J2EE, Spring (AOP, JDBC, CORE, Context), Web Services, SOAP, JSF1.2, JUnit 4, XMLSpy, SOAPUI, Maven 2.2, Jenkins, Windows 7, Red Hat Linux Java Lead Academy Sports + Outdoors - Houston, TX February 2013 to September 2013 Project: ClearTrack Integration  Academy Sports +Outdoors has a legacy system called WebPDM for managing Product information and Vender Quotations, now it is getting replaced by new system called ClearTrack so my job is to Integrate the legacy system into the new system, So here the new system provides Web Services for communication. So written a module which will work as a Job and sends the WebPDM's information to ClearTrack, Handled the data push with Java Multi-Threading for minimizing execution time for pushing the data using Web Services Soap calls.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in analyzing the requirements of customer and incorporating the same functionality in the project.  • Involved in impact analysis for the changes.  • Involved in code reviews and design reviews.  • Used Spring AOP, Spring JDBC, Spring DAO, Spring Context and Spring Core.  • Used Apache Axis2 for developing SOAP protocol based Web services.  • Implemented SOA architecture for web service development and used SOAP over HTTP to communicate between services.  • Developed WSDL's XSD using XMLSPY and SOAP UI used for analyzing the service calls.  • Provided multi-threading capabilities to the application and synchronized the shared resources.  • Used JUnit4 for Unit Testing.  • Developed ANT Script for deployment.  • Involved in bug fixing.  Environment: Core Java, J2EE, Spring (AOP, JDBC, CORE, Context), Oracle 10g, Web Services, SOAP, ANT, JUnit 4, XMLSpy, SOAPUI, Axis 2, JAXB, JAX-RPC, Maven 2.2, Windows 7, Red Hat Linux Java/ J2EE Sr. Developer Kohl's - Menomonee Falls, WI November 2011 to January 2013 Project: Merchandise Planning Tool  The Merchandise Planning Decisions and Exceptions (MPX) to Inforem Integration project shall introduce the new MPX system that will leverage program and plan information to better manage inventory and user workload immediately following the production install. The MPX system shall feed data to Inforem. MPX shall replace the existing Replenishment Parameter Maintenance (RPM) tool. We have developed this tool with the combination of technologies JSF, EJB, Hibernate and Oracle. This project is developed under Merchandise portfolio for Information services department of Kohl's.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in analyzing the requirements of customer and incorporating the same functionality in the project.  • Involved in Production support for more than 4 months.  • Prepared design docs for the given requirements, also Enterprise Architect for developing the flow diagrams.  • Involved in Application development with IDE Tool Eclipse and Weblogic Application Server.  • Used JSF1.2 for UI Development.  • Developed DB procedures for system Initial Load.  • Implemented Database Access layer using Hibernate.  • Used jProfiler for identifying for improving system performance.  • Developed Unit Test cases using JUnit v3.  • Code refactoring done with the help of PMD and FindBugs.  • Used StarTeam for version control.  • Involved in bug fixing.  Environment: Java, J2EE, JSF, Hibernate, Spring (AOP, JDBC, CORE, Context), Oracle 10g, WebLogic , JUnit 3, Enterprise Architect, jProfiler, StarTeam, Html, Jquery, Ajax, Windows Python Developer Veveo - Boston, MA May 2010 to July 2011 Project: vTap  vTap is a video search engine and also it provides enhanced Wikipedia search services, it helps to finding videos from a huge network database such as YouTube, Myspace, Metacafe etc. It provides the search results based on the context, it provides the results not only the exact keywords, its search provides the results even if we give the relative keywords like pet names. So the most difficult part of the project is to find approaches to identify the dead videos for not to display in the search results. As part of the project collected information from the social media like Facebook, Twitter etc., for identifying the most popular topics which are related to the videos  Responsibilities:  • Used Python for scrapping the web pages for processing the web data.  • Involved writing the crawlers using python and XPATH.  • Used Tidy, SAX for processing xml page and converting to document.  • Written many Shell Scripts for automating the internal processes like, DB tables health status, system health status, Master-Slave sync status and error logs.  • Involved in the Wikipedia data processing.  • Used GData for writing YouTube crawlers.  • Used Graph API, oAuth for scrapping the data from Facebook, Twitter.  • Involved for finding the new approaches to identify the dead videos.  • By Understanding the system, identified many places for semi-automation/automation.  • Worked on Unicode data processing and taken care while persisting to Database.  Environment: Python, MySQL, GData, OAuth, Graph API, Tidy, SAX, Windows, Linux, Ubuntu, crawlers, XML Java Developer National Informatic Center - New Delhi, Delhi January 2008 to May 2010 Project: Vahan  Government Organization  It is an Indian Government project; this is national portal for registering vehicles and paying the Taxes from online portal. The main target of the system is to handle huge number of requests as the population is huge, so people can apply national permits when they travel from state-to-state and they can pay permit cost from portal itself using payment gateway.  Responsibilities:  • Involved with Road Transport Officers for analyzing the requirements of the project and incorporated the same functionality in the project.  • Developed the UI using JSF.  • Used XSLT for transforming the Java Swing UI Layout to JSF page.  • Used RichFaces for providing additional enhanced UI functionality.  • Used JQuery for adding Ajax capability.  • Implemented the SQL queries for database interaction.  • Involved in deployment of application on Tomcat server.  • Documented the front end part of the application.  • Provided production support to client.  Environment: JSF, Java, Oracle 10g, XSLT, XML, WebLogic, Ant, RichFaces, Ajax, JQuery, XML, Tomcat, Html, jQuery, DWR, Ajax, Windows, Red Hat Linux 5 Java Developer ISS - Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh August 2005 to December 2007 Project: Reporting Services  This is the project for generating the statements and reporting services, the client expects the weekly, monthly and seasonal account statements and reports for the users. We have developed this project using Java 1.4 and jasper reports API. This reporting service provides different output file formats like PDF, Html and Microsoft Excel.  Responsibilities:  • Used Jasper Reports API for producing the reports.  • Developed JRXML files for specifying the report format.  • Written sql queries for creating a cursor and passing it to Jasper.  • Created Unit test case documents and written the unit test cases.  • Documented the application flow and details.  • Provided QA support after the development.  • Involved in the maintenance activities after the production and also implemented CR's as part of responsibility.  Environment: Java, jasper reports, XML, Oracle 10g, Windows Education State wide 2008 Bachelor of Technology in Technology SRM College of Technology - Chennai, Tamil Nadu Additional Information SUMMARY:    • 11+ years of technical experience on Java/J2EE in Retail domain  • Involved in requirements gathering, analysis, low-level (LLD) and high-level (HLD) system design, maintenance and testing  • Experience in implementing design patterns like singleton, business delegate, DAO, DTO, MVC, Factory.  • Highly competent in gathering user requirements and converting them into software requirement specifications using Object Oriented Techniques, and Design Patterns involved in impact analysis  • Active participation in Architecture, Design, Development, Integration and Testing of Applications  • Day to day activities are gathering user requirements and converting them into software requirement specifications using Object Oriented Techniques, and Design Patterns  • Expertise in Object Oriented Analysis & Design (OOAD) and OOP developed code on Eclipse. And performed unit testing using JUnit.  • Expertise in Jasper and iReports.  • Experience in developing applications with AngularJS.  • Experience in SQL, PL-SQL to develop Stored Procedures, views in Oracle  • Experience in writing JMS publisher, subscriber and configuring JMS Queue on servers  • Developed applications using open source technologies and various technologies like Core Java, Java Multi-Threading, Servlet, JDBC, Java Script, jQuery, Design Patterns, JSF, Spring, Python, DJango. Expertise in OR mapping tools like Hibernate. Worked with various Application Servers such as Web logic 10, Tomcat 6.x, Oracle 10G.  • Written complex Shell Scripts.  • Excellent knowledge in SOA, Web Services, SOAP programming, WSDL, HTML, XHTML, XML technologies (XSD), XPATH.  • Experience with XMLSpy and SoapUI.  • Experience in version control systems like CVS, SVN, Git and StarTeam.  • Expertise in web-based GUIs development using Applets, HTML, AJAX, CSS.  • Expertise in profiling using JProfiler.  • Experience in Design tools like Enterprise Architect.  • Designing and Developing distributed applications using J2EE, Web Services using (Apache Axis (2.0) and Spring)  • Expertise in using Net beans, Eclipse, RAD and IntelliJ for development  • Good Experience in using tools like Ant, Maven for build scripts, and Log4J for debugging  • Good understanding and experience with various programming methodologies such as Agile, SCRUM, RUP and Waterfall  • Worked on different operating systems like UNIX, RHEL-5, Ubuntu, and Windows XP/2 K/NT  • Knowledge of Requirement gathering, analysis, design and client communication  • Self-starter, fast learner and a team player with strong personal and group communication skills  • Key strength is to adopt new technologies as quickly as possible.  • Used Jira, Kanban board and Redmine ticketing systems    TECHNICAL    SKILLS:    • Languages: Java 1.4/1.5/1.6, Python2.4/2.6, SQL  • J2EE Technologies: JSP, Servlets, Web Services  • Designing Tools: Enterprise Architect  • Profiling Tools: JProfiler  • Operating Systems: Windows 9x/XP/2000, RHEL, Ubuntu, Unix  • Framework Technologies: JSF, spring, Hibernate, DJango  • Java support tools: Ant, Log4j, JUnit  • RDBMS Oracle 10g/11g, MySQL  • IDE: Eclipse, RAD, IntelliJ and NetBeans  • Application Servers: WebLogic  • Web Servers: Apache Tomcat 4/5  • GUI: AJAX, Html, CSS and AngularJS  • Source Control: CVS, SVN, StarTeam and Git  • Build Automation Tools: Ant, Maven2.2