Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Andhus Technologies Chicago, IL I am passionate about technology and I am very much eager to update myself with new technologies Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Andhus Technologies - Chicago, IL June 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  • Used Django framework for application development.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python in order to build an interactive web based solution.  • Views and Templates were developed with Python and to create a user-friendly website interface Django's view controller and Jinja2 template.  • Created Data tables utilizing SQLite utilized Jinja to access data and display it in the front end.  • Experienced with Bootstrap as a mechanism to manage and organize the html page layout.  • Developed the back-end web services using Python and Django REST framework.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Hosted website on cloud based infrastructure DigitalOcean  Environment: Python, Django, SQLITE, REST, HTML 5, Windows 2010, PowerShell, DigitalOcean. Jr Python Developer GENPACT - Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh November 2012 to November 2014 Responsibilities:  • Developed strategic partnerships with the business unit to develop a solid knowledge base of the business line, including the business plan, products and processes.  • Created Use-Case diagrams and State diagrams using MS Visio.  • Created entire application using Python, Django, MySQL and Linux.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation  • Wrote Python OO Design code for manufacturing quality, monitoring, logging, and debugging code optimization.  • Involved in Installation and setting up Python/Linux test beds.  • Worked with JSON based REST Web services.  • Worked in Python on a SQL database.  • Delivered presentations on Project Status and Current Open Issues Report to Users, Stakeholders and other involved groups.  • Conducted weekly meetings with the development and testing team to relay any changed requirements and updates on the development and testing.  • Played a key role in the planning, testing, and implementing system enhancements and conversions. Worked closely with project manager in handling the whole project. Manual Tester Softpal - Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh November 2010 to May 2012 • Worked on requirement gathering and High level design.  • Used HTML/CSS and Javascript for UI development.  • Converted Visual basic Application to Python and MSQL.  • Used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Ensured high quality data collection and maintaining the integrity of the data.  • Contributed patches back to Django.  • Utilized Python in the handling of all hits on Django, Redis, and other applications.  • Developed object-oriented programming to enhance company product management.  • Used Python libraries like wxPython, numPY and matPlotLib.  • Was involved in environment code installation as well as the SVN implementation.  • Build all database mapping classes using Django models.  • Created unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.    Environment: Python 2.6, Bugzilla, JQuery, MS SQL, Visual Basic, Linux, Eclipse, Java Script, XML, , Shell Scripting, HTML5/CSS, Apache. Education Master of Science in Computer Science Governors State University December 2015 Bachelor of Technology in Information Technology Aurora Technological and Research Institute - Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh May 2010 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Languages Java, J2EE, Selenium and Python  Networking Protocols TCP/IP, OSI  Web Technologies HTML5, XML, CSS  Operating Systems Windows-XP/Vista/7, UNIX, Linux (Ubuntu), Mac OS  Database MySQL, MS SQL MongoDB, SQLITE  Built tool Jenkins, Maven and ANT  Frameworks Django and Page Object Model