Sr. Manager Sr. Manager Lead Developer - Bank of Nova 15+ on experience in applications design and development using Java, J2EE  - Experience in the entire lifecycle of projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation.  - Database experience includes Oracle , DB2, Sybase, and MS SQL Server.  - Experience includes shell scripting in the UNIX environment.  - Experience in implementing Agile, Test Driven, RUP & Waterfall methodologies. Work Experience Sr. Manager Bank of Nova - Scotia, NY October 2016 to Present Working for the Prime Brokerage/Securities Lending group with the Locates group. Supporting the Global Locates Engine and the Stock Borrow Loan application.    • Supporting and enhancing the current GLE Platform which matches locates to the available supplies  • Designed and implemented the security master and pricing feed from CSAM and Bloomberg feed using various different protocols FTP, SFTP,FTPS and by messaging MQ etc..  • Involved in end to end support of processing and transforming the Supply ,Contract, Fee Rebate,Billing, Activity feed of various different trades and for various entities from Core One.  • Knowledge of various different streams and systems of Scotia prime services which include Cash PB,Loan One, Prime One, Synchova and Swap One.  • Reconciliation of Supply and Locates using Perl and Oracle procedures  • Involved in the migration of the existing Global Locates System to the new Vendor based product which is Trading apps to support the locates processing.    Environment: Perl,J2EE, Spring, Sybase, Oracle,Tidal Senior Java / Python Developer Bank Of America - Jersey City May 2016 to October 2016 Senior Java Developer Prime Brokerage Risk March 2013 to April 2016 Implementation of the risk framework for various different asset classes with in the Organization using the Bank of America's In house Implementation of Quartz Framework (Built using C++, Python).This involves Grid computing , NoSQL and in-house version of Object Oriented Database Sandra.Functionalities include Var and Stress risk    03/13 - 04/16  JP Morgan Chase & Co  Senior Java Developer    The Liquidity Risk Infrastructure  (LRI) program is a multi-year infrastructure initiative to support the Firm's enhanced liquidity risk management processes addressing both the external and internal requirements. The program will include strategic data sourcing, data enrichment, analytical, monitoring and reporting capabilities.  - Involved in the design, development and testing of the application in various modules of LRI.  - Used Spring Framework and all other modules of it to achieve the loosely coupled architecture across all the different layers in the application in various different modules.  - Implemented the Rest interface exposing it to the upstream systems supporting the end to end business workflow.  - Extensively implemented Multithreading in a highly concurrent and distributed environment processing millions of positions computing cash flows and calculating the risks aggregating the result persisting back in the database.  - Built the frameworks like cash flow generators and Report Mapper of the SLS line handling the thread safety in a multithreaded environment and involved in the end to end implementation  - Extensively used Data Structures, Concurrency, Generics and all other features of Jdk 7 and higher in order to improve the performance, code quality and to achieve the desired result.  - Involved in creating and consuming the WebServices (SOAP) to interact with various different services and also to interact with the Cognos reporting system as an even based notification to initiate some of the triggers  - Built the In house implementation of Aggregation Engine framework which supports the in memory processing of various different reports like 4G,5G,LCR,US LCR, EBA LCR,APAC LCR  - Built the frameworks like cash flow generators and Report Mapper of the SLS line and involved in the end to end implementation  - Implemented the batch processing using shell script, BPF workflow and the spring scheduler.  - Used Spring DAO Module, Hibernate, SQL to interact with the database Oracle using the (ORM) object relational persistence in retrieving and processing the records.  Environment: Java, Spring Framework, Weblogic 10.3.5, SOAP, WSDL, Hibernate, eclipse, ANT, Maven, JMS, XML, XSLT, Perforce, Oracle, Log4j, JUnit, Windows XP Senior Java Developer Standard and Poor's June 2012 to February 2013 Market Scope Advisor / Global Content Capture  MarketScope Advisor is an innovative online resource that provides financial professional with access to extensive market commentary, independent investment analysis, up-to-date news and data on a broad range of asset classes including; stocks, mutual funds, bonds, ETFs, variable annuities, and options.  - Involved in the design, development and testing of the application in various modules in agile methodology based out of a 2 week iteration.  - Used Spring Framework and all other modules of it to achieve the loosely coupled architecture across all the different layers in the application in various different modules.  - Implemented the Multi-threaded model using callable & futures in order to handle the articles that the analysts creates simultaneously and also being published to the downstream systems of various different product types like Canonical xml, Electronic Data exchange (reuters, Bloomberg), database, documentum etc..  - Involved in creating and consuming the WebServices (SOAP) to interact with various different services and also to interact with the multiple systems in creating and publishing the articles.  - Implemented the messaging techniques using JMS in order to listen the messages that are being published and delivered in the queue as well as topic.  - Used XML, XSD, SAX, DOM, XSLT, Xpath, JAXB for parsing, transforming and marshalling the XML documents received from other services and downstream systems.  - Used Spring DAO Module, Hibernate, SQL to interact with the database Oracle using the (ORM) object relational persistence in retrieving and processing the records.  Environment: Java, Spring Framework, Weblogic 10.3.5, SOAP, WSDL, Hibernate, eclipse, ANT, Maven, JMS, XML, XSLT, Perforce, Oracle, Log4j, JUnit, Windows XP Senior Java Developer Bank Of America - Jersey City March 2010 to June 2012 Cashpro Online - Payments Module  CashPro Online meets clients' diverse working capital needs by delivering a simplified, personalized Web experience that provides secure and convenient access to a broad range of treasury management, investment, debt and trade services through one portal.  - Involved in the design, development and testing of the application in various modules of the payments in Agile methodology based out of a 2 week iteration.  - Involved in the design and development of the whole application in creating the payments, entitlements, templates, reports, approvals and file import.  - Used Spring Framework and all other modules of it to achieve the loosely coupled architecture across all the different layers in the application in various different modules.  - Involved in creating and consuming the WebServices (SOAP) to interact with various different services and also to interact with the downstream systems (HUB) in creating ,approving and retrieving the transactions  - Implemented the multithreaded model in creating the payments and handling the approval workflow scenarios performed by various Customers and Users of different profiles.  - Implemented WorkManager threads in handling some of the manual foreign exchange transactions allowing the user to approve / reject the rate for various different transactions that the customer can approve.  - Involved in using the Oracle coherence to maintain the cache and session sharing across multiple applications.  - Involved in improving the performance of the application using jprofiler software in order to tune the application for some of the modules.  - Used XML, XSD, SAX, DOM, XSLT, Xpath, JAXB for parsing, transforming and marshalling the XML documents received from other services and downstream systems.  - Implemented the batch processing script in order to process the transactions on a periodic basis.  - Used Spring DAO Module, Hibernate, SQL to interact with the database Oracle using the (ORM) object relational persistence in retrieving and processing the records.  - Involved in writing the test cases and executed those using Junit Test cases.  Environment: Java, Oracle Coherence, Spring Framework, Weblogic 10.3.5, ADF, SOAP, WSDL, Hibernate, eclipse, AJAX, ANT, Maven, JMS, XML, XSLT, Perforce, Oracle, Log4j, JUnit, Windows XP Senior Java Developer ORACLE CONSULTING SERVICES January 2009 to February 2010 HotDesk /R-Case  HotDesk and Rcase are 2 different Applications which allow the Chicago Police Department in maintaining the information related to a Person, Vehicle & Article.  - Responsible for creating the UseCase Documents by interacting with the Business Team about the requirements CPD proposed.  - Involved in the design of the UML Diagrams (Class & Sequence Diagrams).  - Used, JSF AJAX in the design and development of the web interface which allows the CPD Personnel in creating/approving/monitoring the Rcase reports on a regular basis.  - Involved in creating an interface using Spring Framework, HTML, JSF, Javascript by which the OEMC team can constantly query for the reports (using Hibernate) on a fixed date margin from the system and from the data that we receive from the Secretary of State.  - Used JSF, CSS, and DHTML in the design and development of the web interface which allows the CPD Personnel in creating/updating/verifying the hotdesk records and monitoring all the activities performed on a quarterly, monthly and daily basis.  - Used the JMS & Message Driven Bean (MDB/EJB) in making the asynchronous communication with LEADS/SOS about vehicle/person back and forth.  - Used XML, XSD, SAX, DOM, XSLT for parsing and transforming the XML documents received from other internal applications like Etrack and saved the information to the Rcase System.  - Used Spring DAO Module, Hibernate, SQL to interact with the database Oracle using the (ORM) object relational persistence in retrieving and processing the hotdesk records.  - Implemented the Agile methodology in the project.  - Involved in writing the test cases and executed those using Junit Test cases.  Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring Framework, JDeveloper 10.1.3.1, JDeveloper 11g, Weblogic 11g, JavaScript, JSF, ADF, SOAP, WSDL, Hibernate, eclipse, Struts MVC, AJAX, ANT, JMS, EJB, MDB, XML, CVS, Oracle, Oracle SOA Suite, BPEL, Log4j, JUnit, Windows XP Senior Java Developer HP Enterprise Services - Blue Cross Blue Shield October 2007 to December 2008 Spending Accounts Processing / Claims Management System (SAP/CMS)  SAP/CMS are 2 different applications which support the customers of Highmark & Pharmacies like Medco, Oscar in processing the claims submitted through the online Portal and thus making the payments processed for different accounts like FSA, HRA, and HAS.  - Used Struts Framework, JSP for the design and development of the web interface.  - Used Message Driven Beans (MDB) in processing the claim requests posted to the message queues (MQ).  - Responsible for integration with the BlueSquare (Part of BCBS Association) in complying to the rules and standards set using EJB, Webservices, SOA.  - Integrated the application with the other components using web services & SOA in generating the Blue Star reports with in the network of all the providers.  - Used Web Services extensively by integrating with the external applications like Medco, Oscar caremark, Blue Square in processing the claims received for FSA, HRA, and HSA.  - Used XML, XSLT, Xpath, XQuery, SAX, Xalan for parsing and transforming the XML documents received from the external applications.  - Used Hibernate and SQL to interact with the database Oracle 10G using the (ORM) object relational persistence in retrieving and processing the Claims for all the accounts.  - Involved in implementing the batch processing using the shell scripting and thus processing the XML files received from the external application through the FTP Server.  - Tested the web application and the batch application (Dev, Integration Testing, QA, Stage and Prod environments).  - Involved in configuration, deployment into the WebSphere Server.  Environment: Java, JDK 1.5, J2EE, Spring Framework, Hibernate, HTML, JavaScript, Websphere Portal, SOAP, WSDL, eclipse, Struts MVC, AJAX , ANT, JMS, EJB, MDB, XML, CVS, Harvest, Oracle, Log4j, JUnit, Windows XP    HP Enterprise Services - General Motors  Senior Java Developer    Connected Vehicle Enterprise Information Technology (CVeIT)  CVeIT supports GM in connecting the vehicles across North America thus providing communication from a web interface to FCP using WIFI, Cellular and OnStar.  - Responsible in writing the SDD (System design document) and TDD (Technical Design Document).  - Responsible for designing the applications using UML Diagrams like Class and Sequence Diagrams.  - Used Spring MVC Framework, DOJO, AJAX, (DWR) (Web 2.0), JavaScript, for the design and development of the web interface and the Portal.  - Implemented the Application using different Design Patterns Service Locator, Business Delegate, Adapter, Factory, Service Locator, Session Façade, Singleton, MVC pattern, Value Objects & many other patterns.  - Used Web Services in interacting with the OMA DM, XMPP servers and the device FCP in order to make the communication back and forth.  - Responsible for creating the WSDLs, deployments and ensuring the communication over SOAP protocol.  - Generated the Client classes using Client Gen Util of Weblogic Server and tested the Web Services using WebLogic Workshop after deployment.  - Used the Session Beans (EJB) to handle the business logic and in controlling the traffic across the whole system.  - Implemented Messaging service (JMS) to post the request and response to the queue.  - Used Message Driven Beans (MDB Queue) in having the asynchronous communication / response from the device (FCP) back to all the requests.  - Used Hibernate to interact with the database using the (ORM) object relational persistence in logging and monitoring the transactions.  - Implemented agile methodology in this projects.  - Integrated with different servers and protocols through Web Services (implemented in telematics) like OMA DM, XMPP Server, and FCP using the support of Onstar, WIFI, and Cellular.  - Tested the whole application using JUNIT Testing.  - Used Unix Shell scripting to copy the blob from the database to the FTP Server and vice versa.  - Deployed the Client and Server components separately in different domains in web logic server 9.2 and tested successfully by integrating with the FCP.  Environment: Java, JDK 1.5, J2EE (Servlets, Spring Framework, Hibernate OR Mapping, JSP), HTML, CSS, JavaScript, SOAP, WSDL, eclipse, Struts MVC Frame Work, AJAX, ANT, Maven, Jakarta Tomcat 5.x, BEA WebLogic 9.2, Telematics, OMADM Server, JMS, DMServer, EJB, MDB, XML, CVS, Oracle Server, Log4j, Junit, Windows XP Senior Java Developer Cisco Systems July 2005 to September 2007 Prequoting, Quoting and Ordering  The project goal is to provide a web-based Quoting and Ordering tool which improves user experience and allows the users to get quick and accurate pricing. This application is developed to serve the CISCO Service Sales Customers in order to make a quote and order for all the products to which they can avail the services.  - Captured the requirements in the form of Use cases, non-functional Specifications and business rules.  - Design and Development of class diagrams, sequence diagrams and object diagrams using TogetherJ and Rational Rose.  - Implemented Websphere Portal for some of the modules of the Prequoting and Quoting projects.  - Used Struts MVC architecture for the design and development.  - Implemented Spring Framework and Hibernate for the Ordering Project.  - Implemented Stateless Session Bean in communication with the Database back and forth.  - Used Ajax using DWR, JSON-RPC and XML - HTTP Request approaches.  - Developed front end with JSP using Struts Tag library, JSTL and JavaBeans.  - Developed Java Web Services using SOAP, WSDL, XML using WSAD.  - Responsible for integration (Webservices) with all the services responsible to create/update the contracts on all the lines for a particular quote.  - Involved in integration with a component using webservices which determines the Cisco Customers BillTo, Eligibility, Applicable discounts etc.  - Responsible for integration with the ERP Components using webservices, SOA in generating the Order for all the requested quotes by the customer.  - Developed front end with JSP using Struts Tag library, JSTL and JavaBeans.  - Developed Java Web Services using SOAP, WSDL, XML using WSAD.  - Implemented Pl/SQL Stored Procedures for some of the modules in Oracle.  - Utilized DB2 database to store and retrieve information for multiple projects.  - Implemented RUP methodology in this projects.  - Used Agitar for code coverage and Junit for testing the applications in different iterations.  - Deployed to WebSphere 5.X Application Server in a JDK 1.4 environment on a periodic basis.    Environment: Java, JDK 1.4, J2EE (Servlets, JDBC, EJB, JSP, JMS), HTML, UML, CSS, JavaScript, SOAP, WSDL, eclipse, Struts Frame Work 1.1, AJAX, ANT, Jakarta, Harvest, Tomcat 5.x, IBM WebSphere 5.X, XML, CVS, PVCS, Oracle 8i, PL/SQL, DB2, Log4j, CodeLogic, TogetherJ,Junit, Agitar, Windows XP Senior Java Developer MBNA Bank America July 2004 to June 2005 RBW will introduce a set of new Frameworks, Architectures, Technologies and development techniques in order for MBNA to increase speed-to-market for its solutions while reducing overall development costs through standardization and software reuse. This Project was conceived to architect and implement a framework for a web-based application to be used by MBNA Bank's call center consultants to handle customer calls regarding service, billing and other account related information. RBW will introduce and begin the transition to a new technology platform and architecture that will introduce object-oriented development at MBNA.  - Captured the requirements in the form of Use cases, non-functional Specifications and business rules.  - Design and Development of class diagrams, sequence diagrams and object diagrams using Rational Rose.  - Used IBM's PANDOORA (Pattern Driven Object Oriented Reference Architecture) architecture for the design which is a Service Oriented Architecture.  - Implemented the IBM's PANDOORA architecture using different Design Patterns like Façade Session Façade, Adapter, Interface, Singleton, MVC pattern, Value Objects & many other patterns.  - Developed front end with JSP using Struts Tag library and JavaBeans.  - Involved in developing Web Services from the Web Service adapter layer till down to the persistence layer  - Developed Java Web Services using SOAP, WSDL, and XML using WSAD.  - Developed and Deployed the JDK 1.3, J2EE Components to Web Sphere Application server 5.x using WSAD.  - Involved in implementation of the business Rules provided by MBNA America for their financials.  - Implemented stored procedures in UDB DB2.  - Used stateless Session Beans (EJB) to communicate between service layer and business layer and between business Objects and the persistent Objects.  - Used Messaging API (JMS) to connect to MQ Series in order to get the data from the legacy applications & received the messages through Queues using Bean Managed Persistence.  - Developed various test cases and performed unit testing and peer-code review using JUnit.  Environment: Java, JDK 1.3.J2EE (Servlets, JDBC, EJB, JSP, JMS), HTML, CSS, JavaScript, SOAP, WSDL, WSAD, Struts Frame Work 1.1, ANT, IBM Web Sphere 5.X, MQ Series, UML, XML, ClearCase, DB2, Informix, Mainframes, PL/SQL, Log4j, Rational XDE, Requisite Pro, Junit, Windows 2000 Education B.E. in Computer Science Karnatak University M.S. in Computer Science Texas A&M University Skills Java (10+ years), J2EE (10+ years), SQL (10+ years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Java, XML, XSL, HTML, SQL and PL/SQL, AJAX, JavaScript, JSPs, Servlets, EJB, JMS, Web Services, JDBC, JAXB, JAXP, JTA, JNDI,JSF,ADF, Struts, Spring, IBM Pandoora, Hibernate, RAD, Eclipse, MyEclipse, WSAD, WebLogic, WebSphere, JBoss, Tomcat, Jetty, Apache, Sun, JUnit, Agitar, Mercury Test Director, CVS, SVN, Rational Clear Case, PVCS, Star Team, Harvest, Oracle, DB2, Sybase, MS-SQL Server, TOAD, Aqua Data Studio, Windows, UNIX, RUP, Agile, Rational Rose, TogetherSoft, Visio,Hadoop, Spark