Senior Java Developer Senior Java <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Developer - Southwest Airlines Plano, TX • Over Eleven years of professional experience in the IT industry including Analysis, Design, Development and Testing of Client/Server and Web-based Multi-Tier enterprise applications.  • Strong development experience in J2EE, Struts, Spring, Hibernate, Python, Servlets, JSP, Enterprise Java Beans, JDBC, JNDI, XML, XSL, XSLT, JUnit, Log4J, JavaScript, GWT, AJAX, SQL, PL/SQL, HTML.  • Good experience on using J2EE design patterns such as MVC, Business Delegate, Service Locator, Data Access Object (DAOs), Data Transfer Object (DTOs), Session Façade, Singleton, Factory method and Front Controller.  • Strong experience in developing Java/J2EE applications on different IDE's including IBM WebSphere Rational Application Developer, WebSphere Studio Application Developer, Eclipse and JBuilder.  • Hands on experience on various application servers such as IBM WebSphere Application Server, Apache Tomcat, BEA Web Logic.  • Experience in designing Sequence, Activity, Class, Collaborative, State-Transition diagrams and other UML components using IBM Rational Rose.  • Strong working knowledge in MongoDB, PostgreSQL, Teradata, Oracle Database, DB2 and MySQL.  • Strong working knowledge in programming SQL, PL/SQL and Stored Procedures.  • Well versed with build tools such as ANT and Maven.  • Good knowledge in Google Cloud Pub/Sub, JMS and MQ.  • Experience in working with different operating systems Mac, Unix, Linux, Ubuntu, Windows.  • Excellent Client Interaction skills and proven experience in working independently as well as in a team.  • Possess excellent communication, interpersonal and analytical skills along with can-do attitude.  • Possess excellent problem solving, debugging skills. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Senior Java Developer Southwest Airlines - Dallas, TX February 2018 to Present Responsibilities:    • Code application solutions based on detailed application requirements, and define data structures and data sources to satisfy the application solution.  • Work closely with a cross-functional Agile team.  • Develop RESTful micro services and concurrent applications using Java 1.8 with Lagom Framework, Kafka, Zookeeper, Elasticsearch and Cassandra.  • Build and deploy micro services using Docker containers.  • Provide cloud-computing solutions using AWS.  • Build a UI module using AnularJS 4.  • Write Unit tests for code coverage and code compliance using Sonar.  • Use GitHub for source code and version control management.  Environment: JDK 1.8, Lagom, Play, Akka, Kafka, Zookeeper, Elasticsearch, AngularJS 4, GitHub, Git, Windows 7, Spring Tool Suite 3.9, Cassandra, Docker, AWS EC2, AWS ECS, Agile, JIRA, Postman, DataStax Devtools. Sr. Java/ Python Developer Capital One - Plano, TX July 2016 to December 2017 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Design, Development, Integration and Testing of different ETLs.  • Worked on developing ETLs using Python.  • Involved in the development of backend database views.  • Installed and set up Airflow tool on the server for ETL workflow.  • Used pcron to schedule and trigger Airflow dag.  • Developed the application using Atom, IntelliJ.  • Active code revision and versioning using Github.  • Involved in project migration from On-Prem to Cloud.  • Created EC2 instance and RDS instance using AWS Console.  • Involved in Lift and shift of Python Airflow workflow to Cloud.  • Created buckets on AWS S3 for storing environment based configuration files.  • Developed micro services using Spring boot and Restful.  • Built and deployed micro services using Docker.  • Involved in working with DevOps for CICD integration with Jenkins.  • Worked on building and deploying the artifacts to Artifactory.  • Used Sonar for the code coverage and also to detect and fix various sonar compliance issues and code smells.  • Involved in integration testing with Tableau.  • Involved in production support.    Environment: Python 3.6.5, Java 8, Airflow, AWS EC2, AWS RDS, AWS S3, Docker, JIRA, Version One, AWS Rehydration, Teradata, PostgreSQL, MongoDB, Tableau, Spring Boot, Maven, Sonar, pcron, Github, Teradata Studio, pgAdmin 3, RoboMongo, Snaplogic, Jenkins, Artifactory, Giraffez, Jupyter notebook, Agile Scrum, Kanban. Sr. Java Developer Google Inc - Mountain View, CA March 2014 to July 2016 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Development, Integration and Testing of different modules.  • Worked on developing pubsub subscribers to read the messages that are posted to Goops(Google pub/sub) and write them to Google CorpMB.  • Involved in the development of migration from CorpMB to Cloud Pub/Sub.  • Developed Plx script to read data from MySql and post to Dremel for reporting.  • Involved in migration from Plx script events to Plx workflows.  • Developed a program to publish messages to Plx Managed Pipelines topic which would trigger the script for execution.  • Developed the application using Eclipse Mars on Goobuntu OS.  • Configured the bean references using Spring framework's Dependency Injection.  • Built and Deployed the application using Blaze and MPM(Midas Package Manager).  • Used Rapid build tool to configure, build and release the application to multiple environments.  • Developed a program to pull the data from Dremel tables and write to MySql database.  • Developed an automated hourly and daily metrics email program and added to Patchpanel workflow.  • Developed Junit test cases using Mockito Framework for the server side classes.  • Used Logsaver mechanism to save the logs to a /cns location.  • Created and submitted change lists to Perforce version control system.  • Involved in production support and on-call pager duty.    Environment: JDK 1.7, Spring, Log4j, Perforce, Goobuntu, Eclipse 4.4, Blaze, MPM, Rapid, MySql, Dremel, Plx, Goops, Google Cloud Pub/sub, Mockito, JUnit. Sr. Java Developer Google Inc - Mountain View, CA January 2012 to July 2016 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Development, Integration and Testing of modules.  • Developed UI screens using GWT framework.  • Developed the backend Stubby RPC services to handle the asynchronous request from Presenter and send input request to Oracle and send the processed the data back for display on View.  • Developed the application using Eclipse on Goobuntu OS.  • Configured the bean references using Spring Framework's Dependency Injection.  • Used Spring's PoolDataSourceFactory for connection pooling.  • Built and Deployed the application using Blaze build tool on GWT's Jetty server for local build and testing.  • Involved in the development of enhancements of the application.  • Developed a program to pull the data from Dremel tables and write to Oracle database.  • Scheduled cron for the Dremel job to run weekly on borg using borgcron.  • Developed a Servlet to read the uploaded csv file from UI and do validations before processing.  • Developed the Servlet to export the data from UI to CSV file.  • Developed Junit test cases using EasyMock Framework for the server-side classes.  • Developed Junit test cases using GWTTestCase for GWT View and Presenter classes.  • Created and submitted change lists to Perforce version control system.    Environment: JDK 1.7, GWT, Google App Engine Cloud, Jetty, Spring, CSS, GSS (Google Style Sheets), Log4j, Perforce, Goobuntu, Eclipse 3.7, Blaze, Oracle, Dremel, Junit. EasyMock, GWTTestCase. Sr. Java Developer eBay Inc - San Jose, CA August 2011 to January 2012 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Development, Integration and Testing of modules.  • Developed presentation layer using JSP, HTML, JavaScript, CSS and GWT.  • Developed Servlet to handle the request, query TSDB and construct DataTable required by Google Visualization Chart (Annotated Timeline).  • Developed a brand new GWT application for the UI.  • Developed perl and shell scripts to retrieve data from OLAP cubes and post to TSDB (Time Series Database) server.  • Developed the application using Eclipse.  • Deployed and tested the application on Apache Tomcat 7.0.  • Developed Ant scripts to build the application.  • Implemented logger for debugging and testing purposes using Log4j.  • Used Clearcase for version controlling.  • Involved in testing, debugging, bug fixing and documentation of the system.    Environment: JDK 1.6, J2EE, JSP, Servlet, Apache Tomcat 7.0, HTML, Javascript, GWT, Google Visualization API, CSS, Log4j, Putty, WinSCP, Perl, Shell Scripting, Rational ClearCase, Windows 7, Eclipse 3.5.2, Ant. Sr. Java Developer Juniper Networks - Sunnyvale, CA February 2011 to July 2011 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Development, Integration and Testing of application modules.  • Developed the Frontend application using Apache STRUTS framework.  • Developed presentation layer using JSP, Struts tag libraries, JSTL, HTML, JavaScript, CSS.  • Implemented AJAX JQuery for better user experience by dynamically providing Asynchronous request and response communication between Client and Server.  • Developed various Action classes and Form bean classes using Struts framework.  • Configured the bean references using Spring's Dependency Injection (DI).  • Developed SQL queries, Functions and stored procedures to interact with Oracle 9i database.  • Developed the application using Eclipse Helios.  • Deployed and tested the application on BEA WebLogic Server 8.1.  • Developed Ant scripts to build the application.  • Implemented logger for debugging and testing purposes using Log4j.  • Used Velocity and Jasper Reports for Text and Excel download of License Files.  • Used SVN for version controlling.  • Involved in testing, debugging, bug fixing and documentation of the system.    Environment: JDK 1.4, J2EE, JSP, Struts 1.2, Spring 1.2, WebLogic 8.1, Oracle 9i, HTML, Javascript, Ajax JQuery, CSS, Log4j, Toad, SSH, WinSCP, SVN, Sun OS, Windows XP, Eclipse, Ant, Velocity, Jasper, Web Services, Tortoise SVN. J2EE Developer The State of Texas - Austin, TX July 2009 to January 2011 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Analysis, Design, Development, Integration and Testing of application modules.  • Experience of client interaction to a great extent, right from attending the client meetings, requirements gathering, demonstrating the end product to the client in each phase.  • Developed the Frontend application using Apache STRUTS framework.  • Developed presentation layer using JSP, Struts tag libraries, Tiles, JSTL, HTML, JavaScript, CSS.  • Implemented AJAX DOJO for better user experience by dynamically providing Asynchronous request and response communication between Client and Server.  • Developed various Action classes and Form bean classes using Struts framework.  • Involved in the development of business process using Stateless Enterprise Java Beans.  • Involved in the configuration of Spring into Struts application and used Spring's DAO support to build Hibernate based DAO classes.  • Configured DataSource and other bean references using Spring's Dependency Injection (DI).  • Developed SQL queries, Functions and stored procedures to interact with Oracle 9i database.  • Developed the application using IBM Rational Application Developer 7.0  • Tested the application on IBM WebSphere application server 5.1.  • Developed Ant scripts to build the application.  • Implemented logger for debugging and testing purposes using Log4j.  • Used Velocity and Report Mill for pretty print of the pages.  • Used ephox Rich Text Editor which works like a word processor to let the user edit and save Memos.  • Developed reports in PDF using Jasper and Report Mill.  • Used CVS for version controlling.  • Involved in testing, debugging, bug fixing and documentation of the system.    Environment: Java, J2EE, JSP, Servlets, EJB 2.0, Struts1.3, Spring 1.2, Hibernate 3.1, Tiles, Validator, IBM Websphere Application Server 5.1, IBM Rational Application Developer 7.0, Oracle 9i, Oracle SQL Developer, HTML, JavaScript, Ajax DOJO, CSS, CVS, ANT, Log4J, Windows XP, Jasper, Velocity, Report Mill, ephox. Java Developer Verizon Communications - Irving, TX September 2006 to June 2009 Responsibilities:  • Worked in the back-end part of the BQT team, implementation of business logic.  • CVS is used as the version control system.  • Developed the Java Code using Eclipse as IDE.  • Implemented classes for consuming Web services.  • Involved in developing UNIX shell scripts for scheduling back end batch job processes.  • Involved in analysis, design, and development of multi-threaded framework to handle data flow and increase the performance for few Mass Order batches which are expected to have huge number of orders on a daily basis.  • Involved in writing ant scripts for building.  • Implemented utility classes for Parsing using DOM & SAX Parsers.  • Worked on utility classes to read messages from MQ and post messages to MQ.  • Worked on creation of the Sun Solaris package for production deployment.  • Worked on change requests, IRs and defects.  • Interaction with client for understanding the requirements and designing, offshore coordination.  • Support during user acceptance testing.  • Production support for back end processes.  • Used Log4j for logging purpose.    Environment: JDK 1.4, Oracle 8i/9i, Toad, SSH, CVS, Sun Solaris, Windows XP, Eclipse, MQ, Ant, Web Services. Education Masters in Computer Science Bradley University - Peoria, IL Bachelor of Technology in Computer Science JN Technology University - Hyderabad, Telangana Skills JAVA (10+ years), DATABASE (10+ years), ECLIPSE (10+ years), ORACLE (9 years), CSS (7 years) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/sandhya-kolluri-3435a019/ Certifications/Licenses Sun Certified Java Programmer May 2006 to Present Sun Certified Web Component Developer June 2006 to Present Additional Information TECHNICAL EXPERTISE    Operating Systems Mac, Linux, Unix, Ubuntu, Windows 9X/NT/2000/XP.  Languages Java, SQL, PL/SQL, Python, C, C++.  J2EE/Web Technologies Java 1.8/1.6/1.5/1.4, Servlets 2.4, JSP 2.0, Jquery, Google Cloud Pub/Sub, Google Visualization charts, JSTL 1.1, JDBC, JNDI, EJB 2.0, Struts 1.x/2.x, Web Services using Axis 2, JMS, MQ, Perl, XML, XSL, XSLT XML Schema, SAX and DOM, JavaScript and HTML, GWT, CSS, AJAX, DOJO, DWR  Databases Teradata DW, PostgreSQL, MongoDB, Oracle 10g/9i/8, DB2, MySQL 5.0.5  Frameworks MVC, Struts 2.x/1.x, Spring 3.x/2.x, Hibernate 3.x, JSF, GWT.  Configuration Management Github, Perforce, CVS, PVCS, SVN, Rational Clear Case.  Application/Web Servers Google App Engine, IBM WebSphere Application Server 5.x, Apache Tomcat  7.x, BEA Weblogic 10.x.  Development Tools/IDEs Atom, IntelliJ, IBM Websphere Rational Application Developer 7.0/7.5, WebSphere Studio Application Developer, JBuilder, BEA WebLogic Workshop 7.0, Eclipse Europa/Ganymede/Galileo/Mars, IBM Rational Rose.  Reporting Tools Tableau, Velocity, Jasper, ReportMill, ephox Rich Text Editor.  UI Tools Web Developer, Fire Bug, Measure It.  Database Tools Teradata Studio, pgAdmin, RoboMongo, TOAD, Aqua Data Studio, Oracle  SQL Developer, AQT, MySql Workbench.