Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - National Grid Syracuse, NY • 5+ years of IT experience in design, development, testing, maintenance and documentation of Enterprise applications in Python, Java, and PHP.  • Good experience in Python in creating scalable and robust applications along with other technologies (D3, Angular, and Node JS).  • Experienced in Python based MVC frameworks - Django.  • Good knowledge in Python coding and JSON.  • Skillful experience in Python by developing software's using new tools, libraries used: libraries- Beautiful Soup, numpy, Scipy, PySide, python-twitter, matplotlib, Pickle, Pandas data-frame, urllib2, MySQL dB for database connectivity) to improvise software development process.  • Mastering in implementing MVC architecture using Django for web based applications in OOP concepts like Multi-Threading, Exception Handling and Collections.  • Proficient in developing Web Services (SOAP, RESTful) in Python using XML, JSON.  • Solid understanding in Design Patterns, MVC, Python Algorithms, Python Data Structures.  • Experience in design and development HTML5, CSS3, and (Twitter) Bootstrap.  • Good knowledge in NoSQL platform, such as MongoDB, and Couch base.  • Good understanding on Bit Bucket and GIT version control system.  • Strong knowledge with REST API development.  • Experience with Agile and SDLC methodologies.  • Good knowledge in strategy and implementation of AWS technologies such as EC2, S3, and EBS. * Good knowledge in IDE - Visual Studio, Eclipse, PyCharm.  • Highly proficient in analytical problem solving skills.  • A motivated self-starter and well communicated team member.  • Good written and communication skills. Poses capability to interact very closely with wide range of audience such as Engineers, Scientists, Health professionals, Scientists, Professors, Clients, and Vendors. Work Experience Python Developer National Grid - New York, NY April 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Used UML Rational Rose to develop Use-case, Class and Object diagrams for OOA/OOD techniques.  • Built database Model, Views and API's using Python for interactive web based solutions.  • Placed data into JSON files using Python to test Django websites.  • Used Python scripts to update the content in database and manipulate files.  • Developed web based application using Django framework with python concepts.  • Generated Python Django forms to maintain the record of online users.  • Used Django API's to access the database.  • Involved in Python OOP code for quality, logging, monitoring, and debugging code optimization.  • Developed tools to automate some base tasks using Python, Shell scripting and XML.  • Created Unit test/ regression test framework for working/new code.  • Developed efficient Angular.js for client web based application.  • Working in team of Architects and Developers to build and deploy Python Flask Peewee Linux AWS.  • Responsible for designing, developing, testing, deploying and maintaining the web application.  • Designed and developed the UI for the website with HTML, XHTML, CSS, Java Script and AJAX.  • Involved in working with Python open stock API's.  • Design, develop, and deploy engaging web applications using Python.  • Develop applications that use MongoDB database  • Wrote Python code embedded with JSON and XML to produce HTTP GET request, parsing HTML data from websites.  • Wrote Python code to simplify lists in Python with list comprehension and Python OOP. Worked with POSTMAN for API testing. Developed REST APIs, and created User Model for application.  • Developed a complete front-end application with Bootstrap.  • Developed remote integration with third party platforms by using RESTful web services.    Environments: Python, AWS, HTML, CSS, Java script, MongoDB, Linux, APIs, Git. Python Developer JC Penney, New Jersey June 2015 to March 2017 Responsibilities:  • Maintained program libraries, users' manuals and technical documentation.  • Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Thorough knowledge in various front end tools like HTML, CSS, JavaScript, XML, JQuery, Angular JS, and AJAX. Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.    • Hands-on experience in writing and reviewing requirements, architecture documents, test plans, design documents, quality analysis and audits.    • Built various graphs for business decision-making using Python matplotlib library.  • Fetched twitter feeds for certain important keyword using python-twitter library  • Used Python library Beautiful Soup for web scrapping  • Developed user interface solutions using a Django web framework. Used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files  • Involved in building database Model, APIs, and Views utilizing Python technologies to build web based applications.  • Developed interfaces using JavaScript, HTML technologies for several web applications to fetch and graphically present required data from database.  • Involved in the complete Software Development life cycle (SDLC) to develop application.    • Developed user interface of the web application using HTML, CSS3, and Bootstrap. Wrote custom user defined functions in JavaScript to validate application functionalities/features.  • Responsible for writing OOP code in Python for server side scripting.  • Wrote code to support model-view-controller (MVC) pattern of Python Django framework in developing several modules for the application.    Environments/Tools used: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, MySQL, Agile methodology, SQL programming, Tableau, Python programming, and R Programming. Software Engineer Sonata Software - Chennai, Tamil Nadu October 2013 to March 2015 Responsibilities  • Developed UI using CSS, HTML and JavaScript.  • Used HTML and CSS for UI design, JavaScript for application functionality, and MySQL for supporting database server.  • Handled Client-side validations using JavaScript.  • Designed, developed, and implemented four n-tire/multi-tier applications - three web based, and one desktop based. Developed a billing solution, a payment tracking system, and an inventory management system.  • Used CVS as version control tool.  • Responsible for writing Use Cases for admin module.  • For desktop-based application development, used Python as the development language, and Oracle as the database server. Wrote code in SQL Programming for database queries    Environments/Tools used: Python, HTML, CSS, PHP, MySQL, Agile methodology, SQL programming, and MS Visual Studio. Education Master's