Python Programmer <span class="hl">Python</span> Programmer Python Programmer Fremont, CA Around 9 years of experience as a Web/Application Developer and coding with analytical programming using Python, lotus notes, JavaScript, XML, HTML, CSS and Django. To serve the organization with the best of my technical skills and abilities by utilizing my educational and professional knowledge and competencies acquired by me in my academic career and professional experience.  CORE QUALIFICATION    • Thorough knowledge &hands on experience in Python & Lotus Notes programming, web and desktop GUI based application development, website and console application development, database designing and development, SDLC, object-oriented designs and analysis, requirement analysis, software testing and debugging, system or program troubleshooting, networking, code review and optimization, software enhancements, data security and protection techniques, object relational mapping, SQL and relational databases, continuous integration and deployment methods, project management.    • Experience in Projects development and automation using Python, HTML5, CSS3, XML, JSON, JavaScript, MS SQL Server, Oracle, custom and ODBC interfaces, object database and standard database API, Python Rest APIs, Django frameworks, Windows OS.    • Built Web application using Python, PyCharm, JavaScript, AJAX, HTML and template languages.    • Experience using Web Services and API's in python.    • Have good Knowledge of Agile Methodologies (Scrum).    • Ability to analyze user requirements or technical specifications as well as write and execute reliable, testable and efficient code for Python based applications.    • Ability to solve complex programming or application issues as well as provide technical support to end-users and team members.    • Effective communication skills along with the ability to cope with fast-paced and challenging work environment.    • Strong leadership skills with the ability to work well with a cross-functional team as well as independently.    • Ability to handle multiple tasks simultaneously and complete application or software projects within specified deadlines.    • Solid documentation skills as well as the ability to learn new technologies and keep up with latest industry trends or advancements Work Experience Python Programmer IBM Europe August 2015 to July 2018 Project#1: HEAD  Description: HEAD (Host Country Assignment Europe Administration database) tool is used for HCAM roll-out in GBS Europe. HCAM is a global landing Model based on local work contracts in Host country. Tool is used by all involved parties which enables to track status of the HCAM assignments in the initial phase. Functionalities are as below.  * New AIR case initiation for the users going on work assignments for the countries Germany, UK, Sweden, Ireland and Denmark from India and Egypt.  * Initiating Extension cases for the people working in Europe countries.  * JRSS/Salary/Promotion profile data creation using import functionality.  * Country specific assignments Report generation using export functionality.  * PMP, Blue pages and Gold database interfaces to fetch the Open seat and current user data.    Responsibilities:  • Gathered and analyzed user or business requirements as well as provided support in programming, developing, and maintaining web-based applications, websites as well as cross platform desktop GUI based applications using Python, PyCharm,MySQL, JavaScript, and HTML languages, including Django frameworks  • Used the Model View Template (MVT) framework to build modular and maintainable applications    • Building reusable code and libraries for future use.    • Developed scalable applications using Django framework.    • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.    • Worked with millions of database records on a daily basis, finding common errors and bad data patterns and fixing them.    • Utilized PyCharm, the Python unit test IDE for testing the functionality of the application.    • Involved in front-end designing using HTML, CSS, JavaScript.    • Operated all the user side validation using JavaScript.    • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application. Application developer IBM India Pvt Ltd, Bangalore October 2009 to July 2018 Sr. Lotus Notes Developer/Support Primerica October 2013 to August 2015 Project#1: PRS Tracking  Description: Prudential Retirement Service complaint tracking database offers users the ability to create complaint records on-line and the power of search for specific information. Database holds the below information.  User complaint information, participant information and plan information.  User case workflow will be recorded as per the complaint logged.    Project#2: ACS Exceptions  Description: The ACS Service Exceptions Database is an advanced Xpages technology application with a centralized function established to review and govern the various Exceptions Cases to support business processes.  The database has functionality to allow users:  Create a new Exception case  Update/Review an existing Exception case  Copy an Existing Case  Submit new Exception cases  Filter Cases by certain selection criteria  Enable Admin to track progress of Exceptions Cases  Enable Admin to create various reports (Excel & PDF) from the tool.    Responsibilities:  Requirement gathering, analyzing the requirement and flow the development process.  Providing Co-ordination with all team member and GEO for work allocations.  Providing/Maintaining Estimation work hours, design document.  Doing R&D for new requirements to achieve through Xpages.  Designing and developing XPages look and feel as per UI provided by client.  Enhancing the new requirement with Impact change with existing functions using Xpages.  Analyzing the requirements and developing the features requested by client.  Fixing the user issues in Production environment as per the ticket raised. Sr. Lotus Notes Developer/Support IBM US October 2009 to September 2013 Project#1: SPEED  Description: Service Product Enhanced Enablement Database (SPEED) is a Notes-based data repository that provides a single consolidation point for the Service Development process. SPEED automates the collection and disbursement of data associated with standard offerings/services being developed for both Strategic Outsourcing (SO) and Integrated Technology Services (ITS) clients. This tool and repository captures all of the data associated with enabling a standard list priced service product offering. It also captures user input, shares data, generates output files, tracks progress, and interfaces with downstream and upstream trusted source systems including Solution Definition Manager (SDM), Autobahn, and Worldwide Price Release Tool (WWPRT)    Project#2: TSM  Description: Technical Solutions manager Skills Qualification: Technical Solutions Management (TSM) community is a notes database to provide an automated place where TSM's can develop their TSM Skills Confirmation package and electronically request Skills Confirmation. Prior to creating a Skills Confirmation package, the TSM candidate should read the TSM User Qualification document and its companion guide, TSM Confirmation Guide in their entirety. The TSM should also understand the correlation between this Skills Confirmation process and the Selling and Consulting Capability level achievements prior to creating a skills confirmation package. Skills Confirmation is reserved exclusively for practicing TSM's currently assigned in the TSM Job Roll and Job Position Code and will be denied any individual not involved in the development of engagement opportunities or practice enhancement, or not in a TSM "giveback" position for at least fifty percent of their time. No exceptions will be made to this requirement.TSM database is intended for use by the Global Services Solutions Management (SSM).    Project#3: SPETDB  Description: The SPETDB Database is used to create service products such as Econfig. Epricer and S2 and to track the Service Product Enablement status. This database is also used to create multiple products based on country selection in single fly and the status is always made to be maintained from OPT database.    Project#4: eProcurement Opportunity  Description: This project enables user to create opportunities for different customers and the created opportunities will go under its life cycle based on B2B status. We have also included mail-in functionality based on B2B status and Security has been given higher importance as the information directly deals with calculating revenue. This database has reduced maintaining the information which was previously handled through spread sheets.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in gathering the requirements for new applications  • Preparation and maintenance of project documents as required by the organizations quality policies.  • Lotus Notes R 8.0.5 Upgrade.  • Designing and developing XPages look and feel as per UI provided by client.  • Enhancing the new requirement with Impact change with existing functions using Xpages.  • Analyzing the requirements and developing the features requested by client.  • Mentored junior team members.  • Team room Maintenance, Resolving the issues within the SLA's.  • Troubleshoot and close the issues based on the severity. Software Engineer IBM India Pvt Ltd, Bangalore April 2007 to June 2008 Lotus Notes Developer/Support IBM India Pvt Ltd, Bangalore April 2007 to June 2008 Project#1: Dial ID  Description: The Dial ID Request Database is required to implement the process for users to request and obtain RAS, MTS or WECM Ids. The database will also take care of Id revalidations according to the laid-out policy. Manager and network admin approvals are needed for RAS and WECM. For MTS business finance coordinator approval is also needed.  Project2#: Badge Requesting Tool  Description: This tool is mainly useful for the security people to generate the employee badges. SCC person will enter all the employee information and will send the employee list to the Tyco. Tyco will then send the employee list in the excel format to the vendor. Vendor will generate the badges and send it across to the SCC. Employee will then collect the badge.    Title: Global Voice Information  Description: GVI is used to raise a request for the voice information. Through this tool managers can gather the information regarding the users funded and non- funded voice information. Manager, Business finance and GVI approvals are required to raise the request  Responsibilities:  • Designing and coding of several forms views and agents within the application using Lotus Script and Formula languages.  • Database has different access levels like Manager, author, reader or other for different users, taking into consideration security aspects.  • Providing Access control list to each database according to the user needs.  • Support Lotus Notes users, which entailed creation/modification/deletion of Notes accounts.  • Writing scripts for Importing and exporting data from Lotus Notes to Excel.  • Development of test cases, involved in Unit, System and integrating testing  • Involved in moving the application to production.    Environment: Lotus Notes\Domino 6 /9 , LEI, Lotus Script, Lotus Formulas and @Commands, HTML, CSS, Python,Django,JavaScript, SQL, Team Studio, Java , Windows XP/ Server 2003.    Immigration status:  • L2 EAD