Lead Integration Engineer Lead Integration Engineer Lead Integration Engineer Chicago, IL Work Experience Lead Integration Engineer RedShelf 2016 to 2017 Brought in to extend functionality of the auto-course management system by additionally supporting Blackboard,  Moodle, Canvas, Brightspace, and Sakai LMS Systems via various Web API methods.  • Refactored Authentication schema for the Redshelf API Interface.  • Continually refactor the External Learning Tool modules and broke out code in custom middleware.  • Modifying data models to better fit in concurrent asynchronous tasks. Data Software Engineer Dose Media 2015 to 2016 • Implemented AWS Metrics wrapper in Python to create metrics/alarms for all internal data applications.  • Created Restful platform to deliver source metrics/content via HTTP using Flask/SQLAlchemy.  • Refactored data source reconciliation scripts to run in a asynchronous fashion.. Senior Python Software Engineer Wargaming.net 2013 to 2015 Developed World of Tanks Player Auth services which enabled support for Xbox Live and Sony PSN (supporting  SAML, JWT, and OAuth 2.0).  • Built highly scalable login app handling 100k+ concurrent requests.  • Built out SSO framework for the Game Web Portal.  • Collaborated with overseas team to make modifications for Xbox/Sony on the Wargaming CSR Tool. Python Software Engineer Textura Corporation 2011 to 2013 • Implementation of RabbitMQ a pub-sub micro service task system.  • Added reconciliation reporting functionality to the Twisted Web CPM payment service which handles ACH/EFT  payments over several billion dollars.  • Designed and implemented interface accounting packages allowing customer's ERP systems to interact with CPM. Senior Web Developer iPromo, LLC 2010 to 2011 • Brought in to establish and oversee Development, Testing, and Code Promotion Procedures and Policies.  • Implemented version control using subversion and created a branching process.  • Project Manager/ Developer tasked with implemented Lead System (Leads360) into the current CRM system.  • Moved in-house CRM solution to a custom Net Suite implementation.  • Developed front end drag and drop FTP interface to assist in loading customer data publishing. Global Event Control Server - Technical Analyst Vinzant Software 2005 to 2010 • Lead QA, API, and Web Specialist for Global Event Control Server.  • Provided on-site Consulting for domestic and international corporate/government customers.  • Designed standalone C/C++ applications for various client specific requirements using the GECS SDK.  DBA for over 25 MS SQL Server/ORACLE databases with hundreds of active connections. Cold Fusion Web Developer Comark, Inc 2000 to 2002 • Reworked administrative control portal with custom apps for use with theiSAP and shopping cart system.  • Introduced contextual menuing system for use with Corporate Website.