Data Analyst/ Python Developer Data Analyst/<span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Miami, FL Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Data Analyst/ Python Developer Envision Physician Services - Plantation, FL January 2019 to Present • Design, code and implement suite of python programs to Extract, Transform and Load data.  • Use Python to automate manual data processing by extracting data from database to transform into formatted spreadsheets or scraping data from formatted spreadsheets to load into the database or both.  • Implementation of Python to perform ETL processes has reduced the processing time from hours to minutes and in some cases seconds.  • Suite of Python solutions have delivered functionality previously thought as "impossible" in the organization and have always been delivered ahead of schedule and met or exceeded expectations. PRODUCT BUSINESS ANALYST II / PYTHON DEVELOPER TracFone Wireless - Doral, FL March 2014 to December 2018 • Create application using Python and/or VBA programming in Excel to query database, and process and organize data.  • Use SQL language to write ad-hoc queries as well as advance Excel techniques and Python and/or VBA programming to create tools to automate system analysis and configuration.  • Create and maintain design flows, layout designs and requirements for the development of commercial eCommerce Websites, Interactive Voice Response and Customer Support Agents systems to continuously improve customer experience.  • Have performed innumerable User Acceptance Testing of eCommerce websites, IVR and Tracfone Agent Systems to certify that the customers' methods of Purchasing, Activating, Upgrading, and Troubleshooting work as expected. CELLSCRIPTER PROGRAMMER/BUSINESS ANALYS Xerone, LLC - Bay, Florida, US May 2012 to March 2014 • Communicated directly with Chief Technology Officer and Lead Developer to provide feedback and input to improve both the functionality and usefulness of software products.  • Created and executed User Acceptance Testing, managed defects resolution and deployment of the Profile Analysis and Configuration Tool (PACT) software package.  • Wrote the installation and user's guide for the PACT and Cellscripter software packages as well as product specific Oracle and MS SQL installation and configuration guides.  • Wrote SQL Data Definition and Data Manipulation Languages scripts to create database schema and queries to make profiles used by the Cellscripter application to validate the user content of mobile devices during the reverse logistic process prior to shipping to customer. FIELD TECH/CREW LEADER Betacom, Inc - Coral Springs, FL May 2010 to May 2012 • Participated in AT&T's rollout of 4G LTE technology by leading crews in the construction of wireless cell sites and installation of 4G LTE base station radios.  • Led crews in the maintenance, troubleshooting and repair of AT&T wireless network infrastructure.  • Awarded Employee of the Month twice and Runner-up EOM multiple times. Electronics Engineering Technician - Software Engineer Motorola, Inc - Plantation, FL 2004 to March 2009 recession layoff)  • Embedded C++ programming of Windows Mobile platform for Motorola wireless devices.  • Recipient of an Engineering Excellence award for Design Innovation and multiple Bravo awards.  • Participated in the release of dozens of wireless devices including wireless modems, special application wireless devices and commercial cell phones (Nextel) in a variety of roles including electronics engineering technician, technical writer and trainer, data analyst and software engineer. Education Master of Science in Business Intelligence and Analytics in Relevant Coursework Saint Joseph's University Haub School of Business - Philadelphia, PA 2017 Certification University of Maryland University College - Adelphi, MD