Mentor, Full Stack Developer Mentor, Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Python/Django Developer Charleston, SC Accomplished entrepreneur, developer and serial go-getter. I've built and deployed a full-scale Django web application to make the stock market more efficient, and I never stop learning or seeking my next adventure. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Mentor, Full Stack Developer CodeInstitute - Remote April 2018 to Present Act as a mentor for students going through the CodeInstitute.net Full Stack Development Bootcamp. Offer guidance and assistance in a range of subjects including development best practices, development frameworks and methodologies, UI and UX design, and testing and code refactoring. Offer technical assistance for students learning HTML, CSS/SASS/SCSS, Javascript, Jasmine, Python, Django, Flask, Git and more across the full stack of front end and back end development. In the development role, develop coding challenges and other back end infrastructure for the Code Institute platform using Python, Django, Javascript and various infrastructure tooling and technologies (AWS, Heroku, repl.it, etc). Work split 70/30 in favor of full stack development work. Founder, Python Developer LazyFA - Automated Fundamental Analysis (http://www.lazyfa.com) - Charleston, SC January 2015 to Present Personally developed, launched and marketed a subscription-based web application using Python, Django, and ReactJS. Using several external APIs and an internal DRF REST API, the application analyzes nearly 25 years of financial data on 15,000 US exchange-traded securities. Utilizes custom algorithms, natural language processing, machine learning and heavy data analytics to interpret the financial statements and SEC filings of publicly traded companies. Deployed project to AWS Elastic Beanstalk and integrated Stripe for recurring payment processing. Freelance Django Developer Lofty Labs - Remote November 2017 to April 2019 Act as an independent contract-based Python/Django developer as needed on client projects. Notable projects include a RESTful API for monitoring product listings on Amazon and eBay for a large automotive parts reseller, and a mobile, RESTful web application for monitoring the feed level of feed bins in barns for commercial, large-scale chicken farmers. Founder Greenbar Trading, LLC - Charleston, SC December 2013 to January 2018 Full time trader trading US equities, educator and developer. Created all content for all websites, courses, mentoring packages and social media presence. Managed all day to day operations of the business, trading activities, financials, website and content. Sr. Systems Administrator (Linux) Mantech International - Charleston, SC October 2011 to December 2013 With a team of two others, manage and maintain a suite of virtual RHEL5 servers which provide service across the Department of Defense. With a focus on delivering exceptional information security, continuously updated systems and maintained documentation based on findings from multiple security tools as well as manual review. Assisted in backup procedures, adding and removing servers, installing and uninstalling new software, firewall, switch and router maintenance, and other standard system administration tasks. Sr. Network Administrator IEC Electronics Corp - Newark, NY January 2009 to September 2011 Managed a rapidly changing network infrastructure to ensure seamless operation. Utilized Windows, Linux, Unix and Novell servers. Utilized multiple brands of networking equipment including Dlink, Cisco, SonicWALL, NetGear and others. Improved information security by implementing disaster recovery and backup solutions, securing systems, implementing policies/procedures, and regulating access to resources. Education B.S. in Management Information Systems Rochester Institute of Technology 2008 A.A.S. in Computer Information Systems SUNY Schenectady 2005 Skills Python (6 years), Django (4 years), Bootstrap (4 years), HTML (10+ years), CSS (10+ years), Git (2 years), Javascript (10+ years), Bash/Shell Scripting (5 years), Heroku (3 years), Amazon Web Services (1 year), MongoDB/NoSQL (1 year) Links https://www.lazyfa.com/explore https://www.github.com/ckz8780 https://resume.creddle.io/resume/lgy6bs093f https://www.linkedin.com/in/ckz8780 Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Security+ March 2013 to March 2016 CompTIA Network+ March 2013 to March 2016 Offensive Security Wireless Professional August 2011 to Present Additional Information LANGUAGES/FRAMEWORKS:     Python, Django, ReactJS, HTML5, CSS3, Webpack, Bash, AJAX, JQuery, SQL, SASS, SCSS, Jasmine, NoSQL, MongoDB, Bootstrap, Bulma    OPERATING SYSTEMS: Windows, OS X, Unix/Linux    TECHNOLOGIES: Heroku, AWS, Redis, Git/Version Control, DBMS, Celery, Machine Learning, Natural Language Processing, Test Driven Development