PHP Developer PHP <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python, Ruby on Rails, Django, C++, CSS, HTML, Javascript, PHP Boston, MA I have a solid multi-year background in C++, Python, and SAS. I am also developing web site development skills, in Ruby and Rails and Django, and have some experience with using CSS, HTML, and Javascript. I am currently developing a web app with PHP and MySQL. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience PHP Developer Startup Job Matching Site - Boston, MA November 2016 to Present I am currently designing and coding a job-matching site for youth in Dorchester who wish to do web site work and get public reviews for their work, and local small businesses (or non-profits) who request a static or dynamic website be done for them. Like a miniature version of LinkedIn, but where the employer posts public assessments of the quality of work. This app uses PHP and MySQL. Python Developer Vilno Table software product - Boston, MA January 2009 to September 2016 I used Python to develop a specialized language compiler. This new language, called Vilno Table, can produce many kinds of data analysis reports with MUCH higher worker productivity than other tools, what used to take eight hours of programmer's work (with SAS) can now be done in less than half an hour. Please refer to my resume in word format for more information, information from this resume is not being imported properly into the Indeed database. Statistician and SAS programmer Massachusetts Department of Public Health - Boston, MA November 2008 to February 2009 Statistical analysis of survey data, and data management. This was work on BRFSS, a nationwide survey project, done on a state-by-state basis with assistance from the CDC. SAS Programmer Eli Lilly - Indianapolis, IN July 2007 to September 2008 Produced post-hoc statistical analyses and statistical tables. Provide data specifications for integrated database. Perform data cleaning and data integration. Developed and maintained programs for tabulation, statistical analysis and tracking of patients and adverse events. Perform quality assurance of SAS programs. C++ Developer Vilno Data Transformation data processing engine. - Chicago, IL 2001 to 2006 The Vilno programming language and data transformation engine has the potential to become an open standard for data transformation. It is distributed as an open source application, available at http://code.google.com/p/vilno, as a file attachment in the download section.  It provides data transformation functions that the SQL programming language is not well suited for, and is a specialized language that is easier to learn than Perl or Python. This data processing engine was developed in C++.    WHAT THE PRODUCT DOES  The Vilno software product provides data transformation features useful for statistical software and ETL software. Anytime data must be imported from one application, and modifications to the data must be made prior to exporting the data to a second application, Vilno is a worthy candidate. The Vilno software product can be used to transform, merge, conform, and clean data, and can be used to prepare data for reports or statistical analysis. (Biotechnology) SAS Programmer Alkermes 2000 to 2000 Developed and maintained programs for data cleaning and preparation, data listings, statistical tables and statistical analysis for clinical trial reports. Maintained highly complex SAS macro modules. Biostatistician Genetics Institute 1998 to 1999 Served as lead statistician for a phase III clinical trial for inflammatory gastrointestinal disease. Provided statistical consulting services to medical investigators. Drafted statistical analysis plans and statistical sections of clinical trial protocols. Completed statistical analyses: primary efficacy analysis, secondary and exploratory analyses, and safety data analysis.  Coded, tested, and maintained computer programs (using SAS) that executed statistical analyses, and programs that prepared data for analysis (cleaning and consolidating data prior to reports and analyses).  Gave presentation on survival analysis statistical methods. Did research and simulations for survival analysis statistical techniques and bootstrapping statistical techniques. programmer Serono (Biotechnology), SAS 1997 to 1998 Coded and maintained SAS programs for data listings and statistical tables. Prepared complex data for analysis. Provided statistical summary tables for clinical adverse events and laboratory diagnostic data. Biostatistician Genetics Institute 1996 to 1997 Prepared and analyzed data for a phase III clinical trial for red blood cell growth factor. Performed highly complex data transformation to locate and summarize transfusion-related protocol violations. Cleaned and prepared data for analysis, resolved how unusual cases could be accounted for in the analysis. Developed and maintained programs for data preparation and analysis. Pharmaceutical CRO 1993 to 1994 Provided statistical and data processing services to pharmaceutical clients. Provided data listings, data preparations, statistical tables and statistical analyses. Consulted with data management staff on data quality issues. Education masters in statistics Boston University 1994 to 1995 Links http://code.google.com/p/vilno