Sr. Perl/Unix Shell/ Python Developer Sr. Perl/Unix Shell/ <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Perl/Unix Shell/ Python Developer - Cognizant Technology Solutions U.S. Corp Nashville, TN Around 11 years of progressive experience in requirements review, design, development, quality analysis and deployment of software products using PERL, Unix Shell, C, Python,Oracle PL/SQL andMySQL on UNIX environment in financial and healthcare domains.  • Extensive experience in designing, developing and enhancing applications using PERL, Shell and Python scripting.  • Worked on all stages of Build & Release Management including analysis, design, development, testing and implementation.  • Automated project requests by writing Perl and Unix Shell scripts.  • Develop batch processes for financial reporting applications and modules using Perl and Korn shell scripts on AIX interacting with Oracle database.  • Analyzed requirements for internal build tools developed using Perl.  • Extensive experience working in Object Oriented Programming using Perl language.  • Performed various performance tuning level operations and optimized application for maximum speed and scalability.  • Good working knowledge on Oracle 9i and 11g and 12c databases.  • Hands on experience with UNIX commands.  • Good knowledge on Shell Scripting.  • Good Knowledge on Python Scripting - Used data structures like tuples, lists, sets, dictionaries, object-oriented class based inheritance features.  • Good knowledge on installation and compilation of different CPAN PERL modules for PERLupgrades.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL/cx_ORACLE connector and MySQL dB and ORACLE packages.  • Extensive experience in debugging and troubleshooting complicated production issues using tools like GDB and implemented corrective solutions.  • Experience in developing and implementing Web Forms using Perl CGI, HTML, CSS and Bootstrap  • Experience in handling XML file manipulation using PERL and Python.  • Good knowledge on Web scraping using Beautiful Soup Python package.  • Experience in implementing Generator & yield, Lambda, map, file and reduce functions in Python.  • Comprehensive knowledge of Data Analysis and Business Analysis.  • Good knowledge and experience in version controlling usingIBM Rational Clearcase and Git.  • Good communication, interpersonal and analytical skills.  • Analyze System and Business level requirements.  • Work directly with project owners to plan, manage and execute key projects.  • Collaborated with business analysts to design and develop new processes and enhancements to existing processes.  • Experience in direct/On-call client co-ordination.  • Experienceasa Scrum Master for agile development team issue tracking system JIRA.  • Ability to successfully multi-task and prioritize work.  • Working on Agile and Waterfall methodologies. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Perl/Unix Shell/ Python Developer Cognizant Technology Solutions U.S. Corp - Nashville, TN July 2013 to Present Project: Change Healthcare, Nashville, TN- 37135  Role: Sr. Perl/Unix Shell/ Python Developer.  Responsibilities:  • Experience in executing the project work plan, design and development of the system enhancements, major changes as appropriate to meet customer's requirements.  • Translates designs and technical specifications in to high quality applications.  • Designed and built component-oriented libraries and modules for internal tools using PERL, Python/Unix. The loosely-coupled and flexible nature of the designed allowed for use in several different applications with minimal additional work, increasing adoption and decreasing development time.  • Created multiple tools in PERL and Python per specifications provided. These programs take input from XML, EDI structures, CSV or DB, processes the data via some business rules and provided data output and messaging to XML, CSV, DB, email and/or file system logs.  • Performs various performance tuning level operations and optimize application for maximum speed and scalability  • Developed the automated process for processing the payer acknowledgements that helped in resubmitting the medical claims automatically using PERL and DBI modules.  • Developed and designed Python based API to track the claim transaction failures and resubmission for company's internal use.  • Developed and designed Web Forms using HTML and CSS.  • Performed various performance tuning operations and enhanced the system's performance and improved the process turnaround time.  • Building reusable packages and subroutines using PERL DBI/DBD module to connect the db server and data module application to get the status of the threads and synch batch status various other things required for monitoring.  • Wrote multiplereusable Pythonmodules for future use.  • Created a web tool for customers to view their claim status reports and to track their transactions using HTML, CSS, and Bootstrap with PERL CGI.  • Debugged and fixed critical Production issues reported by the users.  • Wrote multiple Shell and Perl scripts for the automation of the unit testing.  • Improved efficiency, executable size and readability of previously poorly-maintained code modules through code refactoring, optimization, and documentation.  • Provided Application support in production by interpreting customer queries and problems, gathering information to investigate, debug, replicate, patch fix testing for the application product releases.  • Involved in release management process such as compiling source code, completing products, eliminating bugs, testing product performance, and integrating applications with new hardware and help project teams to deploy releases in to production.  • Used IBM Rational ClearCase and Git for source code and Version control.  • Managed a small team of programmers using a modified version of the agile development.  • SupportedOS and PERL upgrades by recompiling all the core modules, fixing all the technical issues to make the application work in the new environment.  • Did complete environment set up for new additional PROD, DEV and QA boxes in Unix environment.  Environment: Perl, Python, UNIX, MySQL, Oracle 11g,12c, PL/SQL, CGI, DBI, GIT, HTML and CSS, BootStrap, IBM Rational ClearCase. Perl and UNIX Shell Developer Cognizant Technology Solutions U.S. Corp September 2009 to June 2013 Responsibilities:  • Performed Coding in Unix Shell, OOP PERL and Oracle.  • Design, development and testing of the Perl and Shell Scripts.  • Created Unix shell and Perl utilities for testing, data parsing and manipulation.  • Performed Gap Analysis, High Level Design and Detail Design.  • Created Test script in Perl/Unix from automation and Ran the Test and validated results.  • Performed Design reviews, Code walkthru's and task estimation.  • Design and develop the new applications interfaces using PERL CGI for business users to accomplish or reduce manual work of operation tasks.  • Participate in application server migration project and modify the code as per new application architecture system and perform end to end flow test along with upstream, downstream and business users.  • Designed and effectively implemented business continuity plans (BCP) for financial applications as per organization standards.  • Debugging of code and resolving bugs encountered in the system.  • Develop and maintain housekeeping jobs to maintain the reports and data in Production environment.  • Implement CRON jobs to process and generate the feeds for downstream teams and business users with in SLA  • Extracted data from XML files using PERL-XML modules.  • Wrote multiple Perl programs to generate configuration files from Oracle Database.  • Written Korn Shell and Bourne Shell Scripts for retrieving data from Oracle Database.  • Designed, Implemented, and tested the application using C, Korn Shell Scripting (ksh), Multi-Threading.  • Wrote Perl scripts to extract data from Oracle DB using Perl DBI module for Data analysis and report generation.  • Used VSS for configuration management.  • Worked with UAT team and implemented solutions for critical issues.  • Assist with development of real-time trade order execution and financial markets data routing systems.  • Oral client presentations and module induction to the new team members    Environment:Perl, Python, UNIX, MySQL, Oracle 11g, PL/SQL, CGI, DBI, GIT, HTML and CSS, BootStrap, IBM Rational ClearCase. Assistant Systems Engineer (Perl and UNIX Shell Developer) Tata Consultancy Services, Pvt Ltd - Mumbai, Maharashtra March 2007 to August 2009 Mumbai, India.  Role:Assistant Systems Engineer (Perl and UNIX Shell Developer)  • Developed Unix Shell scripts for cleansing and validating data files using utilities like AWK, sed, grep and other unix commands.  • Developed UNIX shell scripts implementing PL/SQL queries for data migration & batch processing.  • Read and interpreted UNIX logs.  • Develop automation solutions leveraging Shell and Perl to increase operational efficiency.  • Execute performance tuning activities, develop monitoring processes, and improved process performance UNIX/Linux environment.  • Developed Perl and Shell scripts for upload of data feed into database  • Developed reports in Perl for our end users.  • Developed scripts and modified Pro*C program for automation of Claims processing to handle additional 1million recipients. Developed and implemented the new flow of Component trades which includes loading the feed file in Perl/Unix shell, applying the business rules through stored procedures andgenerating the report in Perl for the end users.  • Createdautomation script usingPerlto take the user input for batch processing of data through data module.  • Wrote variousPERL subroutinesfor automation of synch batch data.  • Support over Perl Scripts for Web based application.  • Created process to manage upgrades and patches.  • Support over HTML, CSS.  • Support application teams and assisting with complex issues.  • Maintains and troubleshoots software on UNIX systems and applies temporary and permanent fixes to systems as needed.  • Closely worked with the business users to solve different production issues doing root-cause analysis and break-fixes  • Created high level design document for the application  Environment: Perl, CGI, XML, C, PL/SQL, Oracle 9i, DBI, SQL/Plus, SQL, UNIX Education Bachelor of Engineering in Electrical and Electronics engineering Anna University - Chennai, Tamil Nadu 2006 Skills CSS (10+ years), HTML (10+ years), ORACLE (10+ years), PERL (10+ years), PL/SQL (10+ years) Additional Information Technical Skills:  Hardware AIX 6.1, AIX 7.1, Linux FT Server 2400, Linux FT Server 6210 (hardware fault tolerant)  Operating System UNIX(AIX), Linux, Windows  Programming Languages and Web technologies PERL, Unix Shell Scripting, Python,PL/SQL, C, XML, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap.  Databases Oracle 9i,11g, 12c, MYSQL  Software Tools &Other Utilities Eclipse, IBM Rational ClearCas, GIT, JIRA VOS - Multi Process Debugger and Forms Management System, JIRA  Compilers & Debugging tools GNU GCC, Unix GNU Debugger, Valgrind  IDEs Eclipse, PyCharm, SQLPlus, SQL Developer, Toad  Front-End Components HTML, CSS, Bootstrap