Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> C/ Python/Linux/SQL/Reports Programmer Boston, MA Seeking positions in the Boston, MA or Providence, RI areas only. Also interested in remote positions. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer NTT DATA Services - Providence, RI August 2017 to Present Conversion of SQL/SQR report writer reports and forms to Python/Reportslab. Modifications to existing SQR programs. Technologies used includes Linux, Sybase, Infomaker, Python 3.4, SQL, MS-Office, VI, putty and ftp. C/C++ UNIX PROGRAMMER IDC/TCS/Walmart, Inc - Bentonville, AR October 2012 to March 2013 Using C/C++, Teamforge, SVN and configuration files successfully fixed problem where errors occurred for reports with SQL join product > roughly 2 billion. Worked daily with offshore employee. SYSTEM PROGRAMMER Randstad Technologies/Travel Centers of America - Westlake, OH March 2012 to September 2012 Using Unify Accell/4GL, provided maintenance to nationwide truck repair POS system. Applied fixes to its inventory application. Created 4GL program to produce used tire labels. Added code to calculate taxes on labor for POS and other tasks.. SYSTEM ENGINEER Iron Mountain, Inc - Boston, MA February 2001 to March 2003 AUTOSYS 3.4 & 4.0 Administration. Responsible for maintenance and troubleshooting of roughly 150 Autosys clients running on dual server with high availability. Design, develop, and maintain Unix shell and DOS scripts, and Perl and 'C' programs.    Autosys related Duties/Accomplishments included:  • Support HP-UX 11.0/11i, Solaris 8, SCO Unix, Windows NT, and Windows 2000 Autosys 3.4/4.0 Servers & Clients.  • Install/configure Oracle adapter version 2.0.  • Enter/administer license keys into gatekeeper & license key files.  • Review complete Autosys knowledge base and documentation.  • Installed Autosys 4.5 java interface with Apache server and JDK.  • Add/Update Autosys 3.4/4.5 jobs and dependencies using job console and web interface.  • Performed Autosys upgrade from version 3.4 to 4.5.  • Created Autosys related reports on job failures/terminations within date frame; jobs run on particular machines, etc.    Other:  • Designed/Updated nested batch Unix shell scripts for safe keeper receivable feeds.  • On-call monitoring of safe keeper receivable feeds and Oracle Concurrent Manager process.  • Designed/Updated several ftp processes using Perl, and Unix shell scripting for payroll and e-files. SENIOR PROGRAMMER United States Court of Appeals - Boston, MA December 1997 to February 2001 Support 4 major databases for this agency. Specifically responsible for analyzing, designing, and maintaining C programs, reports, Perl, and Unix shell scripts. Responsible for system administration duties such as system monitoring, security, database backup, and reconfiguration. Designed a testing procedure used to recruit and hire a Junior Programmer. Supervised the individual ultimately hired for this position and trained him in 'C', SQL, Unix shell scripts, creating reports, and database architecture. Also, responsible for training other staff members in programming and Unify database operations.    Accomplishments include:  • Designed sophisticated reports allowing better control of court operations.  • Performed complete Y2K conversion for this agency including Unix shell scripting, C programs, and (AIMS) court application changes.  • Improved the accuracy of existing programs and functions.  • Used C functions developed at previous position to design reports and functions resulting in a savings in departmental operating costs. EDP PROGRAMMER IV Commonwealth of Massachusetts (DIA) - Boston, MA June 1988 to December 1997 Boston, Massachusetts    Initially hired as a Programmer/Operator. Promoted to EDP Programmer IV in October 1992 with responsibility for analyzing, designing, and maintaining case tracking and scheduling systems for the state of Massachusetts' Worker's Compensation program. Designed reports, entry screens, cover sheets, and notices using SQL, C, Unix shell scripts, and Unify's report writer and 4GL language. Designed Unix shell scripts and C programs to dump data into a form readable by Oracle and Pyramid application interface.    Accomplishments included:  • Designed and worked with roughly 500 reports of various complexity.  • Performed daily maintenance and development of the agency's data entry screens using Unify 4GL, m4, and 'C' hooks.  • Developed a data entry screen and report to show highest counts for various types of injuries and body parts occurring at employers' work sites. This provided better quality control allowing employers to prevent these types of injuries to specific body parts and reduce Workers' Compensation expenses.  • Developed programs written in 'C' to initiate 2nd, 3rd, and 4th billings to companies with outstanding fees. Each billing included a charge to the company of $100 or an assessment percentage and resulted in additional funding for the Workers' Compensation pool.  • Used C, SQL, Unix shell scripting, and Unify's report writer to implement a postal zip code sort on mass mailings of notices. This resulting in a savings of postal fees of approximately $1,000 per year.  • Provided data to other agencies about individuals receiving Workers' Compensation benefits for use in child support enforcement and fraud matters.  • Developed an Officepower UDAP to MS-Access database conversion program written in 'C' that allowed the agency to eliminate a major software contract and conduct its operations on one mainframe server instead of two, saving the department approximately $50,000 per year. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science Wentworth Institute of Technology - Boston, MA Associate of Science in Computer Programming Technology New England Institute of Technology - Providence, RI Skills Python (1 year), C (8 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS AND CERTIFICATIONS    • Programming  • Languages:    C/Pro *C, Python and shell scripting (Korn, DOS).    • Software: Oracle 9i, Unify 4GL/HLI, SQL Plus, Autosys 4.5, (vi, make, awk, sort, sed, etc.) gcc, dbx, SVN, m4, GNU PGP, and TeamForge.  • Operating Systems: HP-UX, Solaris, SCO Unix, Linux, and Windows 7.