RESA III Python and Django Developer RESA III <span class="hl">Python</span> and Django <span class="hl">Developer</span> Austin, TX Work Experience RESA III Python and Django Developer Texas Advanced Computing Center - Austin, TX September 2015 to Present Python, Django, Ansible, Nginx, Centos7, RabbitMQ, Redis, Celery, PostgreSQL, Vagrant, Docker, Jenkins, MongoDB, OAuth2 Senior Programmer Analyst City of Austin - Austin, TX March 2008 to September 2015 Responsibilities  Full stack development, Administration of spatial server, Maintenance of legacy code, Tier 3 support    Accomplishments  Wrote the Development Web Map, the primary web application used by the City of Austin to deliver spatial data from hundreds of data sets including: topographic, planimetric, floodplain, zoning, and development. This application receives the majority of traffic to City of Austin websites that present spatial data.    Developed the web client to the Flood Early Warning System; a near real-time application that predicts future floodwater inundation based on current conditions and terrain modeling.    Produced the first cached map services used by the City of Austin, which improved user experience by greatly reducing latency in web mapping applications.    Developed an application that enabled city departments (Parks Department, Watershed, and Public Works) to collaboratively schedule mowing of city owned green spaces.    Skills Used  JavaScript, jQuery, DOJO, Angular.JS, HTML/CSS, C#, MVVM, ASP.NET, MVC, Python, PL/SQL, Data modeling, IIS, AIX, GIS, Cartography GIS Analyst IV Texas Department of Transportation - Austin, TX April 2006 to February 2008 Responsibilities  Web development (client side), Automation scripting, Development of custom GIS tools, Administration of spatial server, Tier 3 support, Training    Accomplishments  Wrote web mapping application which facilitated in the routing of ‘Super Heavy’ loads across the state, avoiding potential hazards such as restricted roads and bridges.    Automated production of an annually published map book which illustrated state, county, and city roads, natural features, public spaces and facilities, and other points of interest.    Taught classes introducing TxDOT employees to the use of GIS in their job activities.    Skills Used  Javascript, HTML, CSS, VBA, VB, Data modeling, GIS, Cartography, Linear Referencing GIS Coordinator Aqua Water Supply Corporation - Bastrop, TX March 2004 to March 2006 Responsibilities  Coordination of spatial data collection and editing, Automation scripting, Desktop development    Accomplishments  Automated production of a map book which illustrated location of water utility infrastructure.     Wrote script to detect closely clustered features and automatically create map insets.    Created an interactive map viewer used in planning by the water utility’s field crew.    Skills Used  VB, VBA, GIS, Cartography Education Master's in Computer Science Texas State University - San Marcos, TX August 2017 to December 2019 Postbaccalaureate Certificate in Computer Science Texas State University - Austin, TX 2015 to 2016 BA in Geography University of Texas - Austin, TX 1999 to 2004 Skills Python (5 years), Django (3 years), Flask (Less than 1 year), Nginx (3 years), Linux (6 years), Centos (2 years), Ansible (3 years), MongoDB (1 year), Docker (1 year), Jenkins (1 year) Certifications/Licenses Certified Scrum Master September 2014 to July 2016 000343210 AWS Certified Developer - Associate March 2015 to March 2017 AWS-ADEV-632