Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer Fountain Valley, CA Work Experience Python Developer Ad.IQ - Costa Mesa, CA December 2014 to Present Lead python developer and database administrator for business to business startup. TEST ENGINEER Probe Manufacturing, Inc - Irvine, CA 2013 to Present Irvine, CA  Complete routine production testing based on standards. Document product failures in accordance with applicable procedures. Communicated upcoming problems to production supervisor. Facilitate interdepartmental improvement efforts. (2013 to Present) TUTOR Self-Employed 2008 to Present DATA ENTRY CLERK AppleOne Staffing March 2013 to May 2013 COMPUTER LAB SUPERVISOR Boys & Girls Club of Cypress - Cypress, CA 2006 to 2006 Cypress, CA  Supervised a computer lab used by children aged 6-14. Instructed students in the proper use of computer equipment and software programs. (2006) COMPUTER SCIENCE TUTOR UC Merced Student & Advising Learning Center - Merced, CA 2005 to 2006 Merced, CA  Tutored both groups and individuals in college-level math and computer science courses. (2005 to 2006) Education B.S. in Computer Engineering California State University Skills MySQL Additional Information A combination of specialized education and practical application has resulted in excellent qualifications as a TEST ENGINEER, PROGRAMMER, EMBEDDED PROGRAMMER, and SYSTEMS ENGINEER. Adept at assessing project requirements, prioritizing assignments, analyzing systems and designing software modifications resulting in peak efficiency. Skillfully evaluate application issues and troubleshoot problems. Research concerns, determine the most effective course of action and implement corrections. Think clearly and calmly in fast-paced, changing environments. Work well independently or as part of a cooperative team effort.  Key Strengths Include:  • Excel at identifying problem areas and initiating viable solutions.  • Interface effectively with management, co-workers and clientele.  • Work successfully in situations demanding accurate and timely decisions.  • Extensive experience training all levels of personnel to use software programs.    COMPUTER SKILLS  Operating Systems: Windows • Linux (various distributions) • UNIX • OS X  MS Office: Word • Excel • PowerPoint • Access