Python/PHP full stack web debeloper <span class="hl">Python</span>/PHP full stack web debeloper Wheeling, IL • 8+ years of experience in software development with focus on requirements gathering, product/release/team planning and estimation, design, technical/training documentation, development, maintenance, Unit/System/User Acceptance testing.  • 5 years of experience in PHP Technology, HTML, CSS, XML, JavaScript, AJAX and Content Management System, LAMP technology, REST based web services, MVC Framework.  • 4+ years of experience on HTML5,CSS3,Responsive web design and implementation  • 2+ years of experience on Wordpress  • 1+ years of experience on Python, DJANGO, ANGULAR and FOUNDATION framework.  • Worked on Apache and LINUX environment  • Experience in MVC model, worked on New York Times customized PHP framework.  • Experience in Content Management System such as Wordpress, SCOOP( New York Times CMS tool).  • Excellent procedural skills and improving Object Oriented skills.  • Experience in consuming REST based WebServices.  • Experience in developing and maintaining websites and web applications using PHP, REST web service, HTML, XHTML, XML, CSS, JSON, Java Script, JQuery, AJAX,HTML5,CSS3.  • Experience on Data Modeling on Relational Database Management Systems  • Proficiency in Prototype of the pages , Module Design, User Interface Design, and Integration of PHP components.  • Designing skills to design web site, page layouts, email newsletters.  • Experience with SASS, Compass & Breakpoint  • Experience in configuring Wordpress sites and developing Plugins and Themes..  • Working experience with setup & use of version control systems (SVN), BitBucket.  • Experience in using various tools and IDEs for development and design like Netbeans, eclipse, Dreamweaver.  • Experience in using WinSCP, Bugzilla, regexbuddy tools.  • Expert knowledge of SDLC , Agile and Scrum methodologies.  • Experience in design, effort estimation, scheduling and work plan development  • Excellent experience in documentation of design, implementation and deployment process of projects.  • Experience in web testing using emulators, browser like safari, chrome, Firefox, IE 9 and fixing UI issues.  • Competent with PHPMYADMIN, MySQL database concepts Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python/PHP full stack web debeloper NOKIA - Arlington Heights, IL November 2016 to Present Web Developer/PHP Developer/Perl Developer / Python Developer February 2016 to August 2016 • Developing and maintaining PHP, Python Perl web applications.  • Requirement gathering, architecture and design planning for web applications.  • Working on Python Redmine API tool to enhance features of Redmine for issue tracking and workflow of tasks.  • Perform Unit testing, Integration testing.  • Develop application pages using Python Redmine Rest API library.  • Maintain applications on Redmine, perform administration activities.  • Design and implement new features, enhancements, and content of existing websites.  • Design and Development of new application pages involving DJANGO, Foundation framework and Angular.  • Involved in creating all technical related documentation and training required for each release of projects.    Environment:  PHP, Perl, Python, HTML, CSS, Apache, Linux, Filezilla, MYSQL, Redmine, SVN, Regexbuddy, DJANGO, Angular,HTML5,  CSS3, Foundation, Rest API Web Developer/PHP Developer/Perl Developer ABBOTT DIAGNOSTICS - Lake Forest, IL December 2014 to February 2016 • Developing and maintaining PHP and Perl applications used for Clinical Data Collection and Processing.  • Collecting user requirements specification to implement new application pages  • Perform changes to existing applications to fulfill business operation needs.  • Developing PHP and Perl application to enhance and automate the data collection-to-extraction process.  • Developing PHP and Perl applications which will be used for Clinical Trial database study using the data.  • Documenting all the required documents for the project.  • Developing protocol documentations for Computerized System Life Cycle (SLC) deliverables.  • Testing software to provide objective evidence of meeting functional requirements.  • Bash scripts coding and execution on Unix/LINUX for data processing.  • Perform configuration activities required for projects.  • Review results and incidents on data.  • Migrating PHP and PERL applications from UBUNTU Unix to Red Hat Linux environment.  • Involved in creating all technical related documentation required for each release of projects.    Environment:  PHP, Perl, HTML, CSS, Apache, Linux, Unix, Filezilla, SQLite, Oracle, JavaScript, JQUERY Web Developer/PHP Developer/UI Developer/ Web Content Management SEARS HOLDINGS - Chicago, IL May 2014 to November 2014 • Developing and Maintaining all Wordpress Blog sites.  • Converting easy to complex psd designs into WordPress pages.  • Collecting requirements to design new sites and changes required to existing sites.  • Design and implement new features, enhancements, and content of existing websites  • Installing, configuring, maintaining and administering Wordpress blog sites.  • Updating Wordpress and plugins to new version across all sites.  • Developing custom plugins for special features.  • Identifying and solving issues caused by installed plugins.  • Fix all cross browser related issues.  • Resolving bugs reported across the sites, managed through JIRA.  • Worked on HTML5 and CSS3 to build responsive web pages.  • Unit testing/Integration/Cross browser testing of all sites.  • Debugging and refining websites to produce final, fully QA'd product  • Creating Wordpress API to be used by other applications.  • Provide technical consultancy services to stakeholders  • Developing custom themes and functionality  • Worked on Bootstrap, SASS, Compass , LESS & Breakpoint  • Performance tuning of the application.  • Involved in design phase, estimations and release activities for different projects.    Environment:  PHP, HTML,XHTML,JavaScript, Jquery,CSS, HTML5, CSS3,MYSQL, PHPMYADMIN, Apache, Linux, WinSCP, Wordpress,API,  Dreamweaver, Google Analytics, BitBucket, iFrame, Wordpress SEO, Bootstrap, SASS , LESS , Compass. Senior UI Developer/ Web Content Management BARCLAYS INVESTMENT BANK - Plano, TX December 2013 to May 2014 • Understanding existing applications  • Installation of all softwares required for project JAVA, ORACLE,PL/SQL, INTELLIJ, GIT, TOMCAT  • Setting up workspace for the project which involves installing all softwares and bringing up application sites on local.  • Involved in creating UI which includes creating JSP pages  • Creating tag files, using existing tag files in struts 2 framework  • Review of test scripts created for JIRA  • Providing UI related fixes for issues reported.    Environment:  IntelliJ,Sublime,CSS,HTML,Javascript,Aptana,Jira,GIT,JSP,Struts 2 Web Developer/PHP Developer/UI Developer/Web Content Management LINKED LOCAL NETWORK - Schaumburg, IL September 2012 to November 2013 Linked Local Network uses evolving technologies to connect business owners and professionals with each other to expand awareness and create opportunities for lasting growth and profitability.    • Developing and Maintaining all sites of Linked Local Network using Wordpress.  • Collecting requirements to design the sites.  • Installing, configuring, maintaining and administering Wordpress.  • Modifying PHP, HTML, CSS, Javascript, Jquery according to project requirements.  • Identifying and adding required plugins for all the sites.  • Identifying and solving issues caused by plugins or feeds under PHP,MYSQL,HTML,CSS,Javascript and JQuery Technology.  • Playing the role of Admin to the sites which involves adding feeds, plugins, upgrading, creating required categories and tags, maintain sites, resolving bugs reported across all sites.  • Updating themes, database and plugins. Redesigning the application pages according to client requirements.  • Creating test environment to verify and confirm compatibility of new version Wordpress and Plugins  • Maintaining MySQL database through PHPMYADMIN. Migrating MySQL data from one database to another.  • Analyzing requirements to implement Google Analytics on Wordpress sites.  • Creating pages for Sponsors and Advertisers to improve business through sites by adding Google business photos, Google map related to them in sites.  • Managing projects and bug tracking through ASANA.  • Training new team members about functionalities and design of sites.  • Single person to handle all tech team related work and issues for the entire LLN team.  • Helping columnists to post on sites, solving any issues faced by them.    Environment:  PHP, HTML,XHTML,JavaScript, Jquery,CSS, MYSQL, PHPMYADMIN, Apache, Linux, RSS feeds, WinSCP, Wordpress,  Dreamweaver, ASANA, Dropbox, Google ADS, Google Maps, Google Business Photos with iframe, Google Analytics. ROLE - Web Developer INFOSYS TECHNOLOGIES LTD - Bengaluru, Karnataka June 2007 to June 2012 • Build new marketing application pages in .NET technology  • Analyzing the applications and documenting the functionalities.  • Creating demo modules in .NET technology for user acceptance.  • Unit and Integration test of the applications.  • Involved in design phase, effort estimation.    Environment:  Visual Source Safe, QTP tool, SQL, MS Word, MS Visio, MS Outlook    NYTCOSO - New York Times  ROLE - Web Developer/PHP Developer/UI Developer    • Development and support work for 15+ applications.  • Developing web application pages according to the client requirements using PHP, HTML, CSS, AJAX ,XML, Model View Controller (MVC) design framework, REST Webservice, JSON and Java script technology.  • Migrating existing applications from different technology into PHP technology application pages.  • Redesigning the application pages according to client requirements.  • Resolving bugs reported across the site, managed through bugzilla system.  • Enhancements of existing functionality or features of modules.  • Redesign the modules according to new requirements.  • Creating UI prototype with website structure, layouts, modules using CSS, HTML for client acceptance.  • Designing Email newsletters using inline styles.  • Testing and fixing all issues so that application page is visually same across all browsers ( IE8, IE7, IE6, Mozilla, Safari)  • Performance tuning of the application.  • Involved in design phase, effort estimation , code-review and release activities.  • Created a new framework which was used across for all email newsletters.  • Analyzing and redirecting existing 40+ URL pattern to new URL format using regexbuddy tool and PHP technology.  • Migrating existing email newsletter from knews (old NYT publishing application) to scoop (new CMS application of NYT).  • Create modules using SCOOP(new CMS application of NYT) publishing application to bring up modules on page.  • Migration of existing section front pages from knews ( old NYT publishing application) to SCOOP (new CMS application of NYT).  • Documenting design, release activities and bug fix procedures.    Environment:  PHP, HTML, XHTML ,JavaScript, Prototype.js, CSS, JSON, XML, XSL, REST API, Apache, Linux, Eclipse, MS Word, MS Visio,  MS Outlook, Content management System tool, SVN, Regexbuddy , WinSCP, Bugzilla    DJC6 - DowJones Cluster 6  ROLE - Test Engineer    • Analyze the application pages which includes Interactive charts,graph and table.  • Documenting the Test plan. Came up with detailed test cases for all the applications.  • Manual testing, Load balance testing, Stress testing of all pages.  • Testing using QTP tool.  • Handling release activities. Providing final signoff for release to production.  • Tracking all the issues and help team in explaining details of issues.  • Confirm product quality and provide details about the product before the Production release.    Environment:  QTP tool, SQL, Load Runner, MS Word, MS Excel, MS Visio, MS Outlook    DJC6 - DowJones Cluster 5  ROLE - Web Developer/JAVA Developer    • Devloping application pages using JAVA, Javascript, HTML, CSS.  • Maintenance of existing applications. Resolving bugs reported across the site.  • Testing using QTP tool and handling release activities.  • Write QTP scripts for all the application pages.  • Documenting design, release activities and bug fix procedures.    Environment:  JAVA, Javascript, XML, HTML, CSS, Eclipse, QTP tool, Load Runner, MS Word, MS Excel, MS Visio, MS Outlook,  Dow Jones Publishing tool. Role - Systems Engineer Trainee INFOSYS TECHNOLOGIES LTD June 2007 to July 2007 Overview: Completed a Banking project in Java, Oracle technology which was assigned as part of training program. Trainee Software Engineer International Institute of Information Technology - Bengaluru, Karnataka November 2006 to April 2007 Overview: Undergone a special training program from International Institute of Information Technology - Bangalore  (IIT-B) for six months under guidance of Infosys.  • Trained in Java/J2EE, Shell Programming (Unix), C, RDBMS, Java Script, HTML, Oracle, PL/SQL,HTML,CSS  • Successfully completed the training with CGPI 4.4 [out of 5]