Sr. Oracle Pl/SQL Developer & Python-Data Science specialist Sr. Oracle Pl/SQL <span class="hl">Developer</span> &amp; <span class="hl">Python</span>-Data Science specialist Sr. Oracle Pl/SQL Developer & Python-Data Science specialist - Wells Fargo • Highly motivated software professional with 15+ yrs. of strong experiences in Design, Development, System Test, Production execution and Support of Software Projects in IT Industry.  • Have been involved in all phases of SDLC (requirement analysis, high and detail level design, coding, unit, integration, regression, user acceptance testing and deployment) for projects in Financial (CITI Group, Indian Bank, ISBS) & Healthcare (HUMANA, CIGNA) domain.  • Have worked with TCS Banking Products - Branch Banking Software_ISBS & TCS Core Banking Software Solution (BaNCS) for implementation at Indian Bank.  • Have extensive experience in production support projects.  • Extensive exposure in UNIX, PL/SQL, Oracle Pre-compilers and Java in complex environment.  • Exposure in development and maintenance of applications using Actuate 7/8/9 Business intelligence Suites, Oracle 9i/11g, Callidus TrueComp 3.x/5.x.  • Experience in using Oracle tools such as Toad and Oracle SQL Developer.  • Experience with Python 3.0.  • Exposure in Application System Maintenance/Administration on UNIX server.  • Involved in cleaning and maintaining migrated data.  • Experienced in Tuning Queries for better performance with large volume of data.  • Experience in using Explain Plan, SQL tuning, collection of statistics and creation of indexes for database access and indexing the required columns.  • Experience with procedures and coding PL/SQL blocks.  • Quick learner with ability to master new concepts and applications.  • Excellent analytical, problem solving, communication and inter-personal skills to manage and interact with individuals at all levels. Able to interact effectively with other members of the Business Engineering, Quality Assurance and other teams involved with the System Development Life cycle.  • Experience in utilizing Business Objects.  • Extensively worked with Oracle Utilities like Imports / Exports, SQL * Loader- Worked with very large databases - Extensively used UNIX shell Scripts for automating batch programs.  • Focused and hard-working, able to troubleshoot complex problems. Strong Business and Application Analytical skills.  • Effective team player and a motivating leader with innovative & adaptive communication skills.  • Possess a track record of success in meeting project milestones and developing very good relationship with client and other groups. Work Experience Sr. Oracle Pl/SQL Developer & Python-Data Science specialist Wells Fargo - Charlotte, NC March 2018 to Present Sr. Oracle Pl/SQL developer & Python-Data Science specialist Wells Fargo - Charlotte, NC March 2018 to Present Project: IHUB Maintenance & Development    Description:  The Project involved offering performance improvement recommendations on the existing queries both static and dynamic as part of various procedures and packages within Oracle and Informatica ETL tool. New code and solution requirements were handled to meet the business requirements. Apart from offering solutions at database level, underlying source codes in Oracle and Informatica were also analysed for optimization to check for better performance.    Responsibilities:  • Working directly with & reporting to Customers to understand the requirements.  • Extensively involved in using PL/SQL to build Oracle Packages, stored procedures, functions, triggers, cursors, Oracle Reports for data processing.  • Working on performance tuning strategies for the database objects across various databases.  • Database Analysis of the Oracle and SQL Server loan data for testing code  • Changes/enhancements.  • Assisted the business analyst team in the capacity of a Data Science specialist for modeling unstructured data, extraction and visualization using Python.  • Used various machine learning techniques and statistical algorithms based on the requirement to provide data analysis, training & testing models and providing accurate recommendations.  • Extensive use of Python language and Libraries for implementing the solutions and data models.    Environment: Oracle PL/SQL, Sql *Plus, Informatica, Oracle 11G, Oracle 12c, Python 3.0 & Machine Learning Sr. Oracle Pl/SQL Developer CITI Group - Tampa, FL November 2010 to February 2018 Sr. Oracle PL/SQL Developer CITI Group - Tampa, FL November 2010 to February 2018 HUMANA - Louisville, KY December 2008 to November 2010 Project: HUMANA Compensation Reporting    Description:  The HUMANA compensation reporting or EIM reporting is a development/maintenance project which involved developing, generating and maintaining various reports. The reports provided vital information on payrolls of the sales team and also other statistical information needed by business to plan and execute their process. The project also provided scope for automating various Actuate monitoring activities which helped save valuable turnaround time. Business logic for compensation reporting was provided by True Comp system developed by Callidus software. Data was stored on Oracle 9I database. The reports queried against an in-house data Warehouse, to improve performance. The Data Warehouse is populated periodically to meet the reporting demands.    Responsibilities:  • Responsibilities include analyzing, trouble shooting, resolving and documenting reports. Understand existing system business logic, perform enhancement and impact analysis of the applications.  • Documented all the requirements received from business team, optimized for effective solutions.  • Design, Development and Enhancements of various types of reports.  • Developed and maintained in-house Data Warehouse environment. The environment was developed using Oracle PL/SQL.  • Development/enhancement of Oracle PL/SQL programs for creating Tables, Views, Sequences, Database triggers, Cursors, Stored Procedures and Functions, Exception Handling and Indexing, Optimization and Tuning of Procedures, SQL Queries to improve performance.  • Creation and execution of implementation plan, deployment of executables to servers.  • Development/enhancement of UNIX shell scripts. Troubleshoot the Production issues.  • Work directly and reporting to Customers to understand their requirements.  • Deployment of the reports with proper security & accessibility.  • Developed and maintained sales incentive reports in actuate.  • Automated sever-volumes process using Information Delivery APIs. The automated process would alert the system administrator as soon as a server volume went off-line. The process saved about 8Hrs of turnaround time in a month.  • Code optimization-Involved in performance management of actuate reports/PL-SQL queries.  • Work closely with upper management and consultants onshore and offshore of various teams in development, maintenance, QA & Testing and production support of compensation system.  • Coordinate with business analyst, business client and various functional teams across the application to gather requirements and provide best solution approach.  • Time & Cost estimation of work/change requests, work allocation to team members (offshore and onshore), track/review progress.  • Developed application upgrades for three Annual Release and multiple Quarterly Release. This development involved compensation application upgrade, report development, oracle stored procedures/Functions development etc.  • Create complex data models and process flow diagrams. Create and maintain high level design (HLD), detailed design (DD), Unit test (UTP) documentations & business-process documentation based on the requirements gathered from business analysts & business user, using industry-standard methodology.  • Actively organize team and business meetings, mentor resources, and participate in resource hiring process.  • Used TOAD to review explain plans, long running operations and assist with performance tuning of queries.    Environment: PL/SQL, Java, AIX-UNIX, Oracle 9i database, Actuate 9.0, Callidus-TrueComp Associate Consultant Tata Consultancy Services (TCS) December 2002 to November 2010 Projects Experience: Assistant Consultant Tata Consultancy Services (TCS) December 2002 to November 2010 CIGNA - Philadelphia, PA May 2006 to December 2008 Project: CIGNA Medical Management    Description:  The CIGNA Medical Management Reporting was a production support project which generates reports for internal management and external customers using Actuate. The project provided a dynamic opportunity of interaction with Actuate from Windows and UNIX platforms. The reports for the external customers were generated and produced using Actuate and its legacy APIs, Requester APIs on Windows platform. Reports for internal management were generated from a UNIX system using the modern Information Delivery APIs (IDAPIs), Java and stored on the Actuate Server. Reports were kicked off using UNIX scripts which in turn called specific Java programs for submitting the report jobs on the actuate server. Tivoli workload scheduler was used for scheduling and event-based execution of the Actuate reports.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in creating Business Requirement Documents, User Requirement Specification, and Functional Requirement Specifications.  • Contributed towards creating Data Flow Diagrams, Use Cases, State Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams, Component Diagrams, Use Case Diagrams & Activity diagrams.  • Did Gap Analysis & Impact analysis by identifying existing technologies, documenting the enhancements to meet the end-state requirements.  • Migrated legacy C++ based Requester APIs to Java based IDAPI environment using SOAP on Solaris environment, resulting in system independence and resource savings.  • Automated all the manual Oracle SQL scripts-based reports using Java. Developed UNIX scripts to execute the Java programs and scheduled the UNIX scripts on Tivoli Workload Scheduler. This resulted in saving of 6-8 Hrs. of manual intervention every month.  • Developed and deployed driver reports for automating the execution of multiple reports for various customers. This driver report proved to be very useful in a customer reporting environment as it automated the entire report generation process of all the customers who get many reports on a scheduled basis, namely weekly, monthly or quarterly. Suitable privileges for the individual customer folders were also handled to ensure privacy.  • Performed performance tuning of the report queries to help save redundant database queries and thus save report execution time.  • Following the Coding Standards for e-Report Designer Professional and Stored Procedure as per the organization standards.  • Development & Modification of Queries and Stored Procedures in Oracle.  • Deployment and scheduling the Objects to the iServer through Management Console.  • Unit & Integration testing.  • Involved in making new releases of the application.  • Responsibilities include analysing, reproducing and fixing the bugs  • Worked as the team leader of offshore team, where the responsibilities include distributing tasks among the team members, knowledge transitioning and assisting them in maintaining the development/delivery standards.  • Prepared documents to conduct User Acceptance Testing.    Environment: SUN SOLARIS, Oracle 9i database, PL/SQL, Java, Actuate-IDAPIs Indian Bank Core Banking System - Chennai, Tamil Nadu September 2004 to May 2006 Description:  The project involved implementation, customization and enhancement of the core-banking product to meet the requirements of the client.    Responsibilities:  • Implemented and provided enhancements such as multiple accounts editor, mainstreaming for Inward Clearing process to meet client requirement. This helped save considerable time on the clearing process which is a strictly time bound activity.  • Created and implemented IBGA (Inter Branch Clearing Account) module and related reports. Developed reports and flat file generation programs specific to the client requirements. Created UNIX scripts to automate the flat file dispatch process to various processing centers.  • Involved in designing and implementation of transfer batch for salary, pension and ECS posting to reduce load on existing inward clearing process. The new system provided the customer with more control over the process.    Environment: FNS-BANCS, IBM-AIX, Oracle 9I database, PL/SQL, PRO*C, MF COBOL    Integrated Standard Banking System (ISBS), Chennai Nationalized Banks of India December 2002 to September 2004 Description:  The project dealt with enhancement of TCS Banking product ISBS.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in requirement gathering & project Analysis.  • Development, Coding, Testing (integration, functional and performance) and Debugging.  • Provided Banking/Technical support to various branches of the banks.  • Developed & maintained custom reports.  • Testing (integration, functional and performance).  • Deployment at the client site.  • Employee training.    Environment: Pl/SQL, PRO*C, SCO-Unix, Oracle 7 database, Forms 3.0 Certifications/Licenses python for data science Present AHM Present