Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Unable to relocate. REMOTE ONLY or within 40 miles of Louisville, KY) Louisville, KY I am an experienced Python and .NET developer currently open to new opportunities. I am unable to relocate. Remote positions welcome. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Kutir Mobility - Newark, CA Present • Developed Python applications to parse and analyze log data for bag scanners at airports using Python-VTK, NumPy, Watchdog, Psycopg Python libraries optimized for speed using the Pypy interpreter   • Automated trouble ticket generation for problem scanners  • Assisted development of costumer facing Ruby on Rails web application  • Developed and built custom Docker files for images builds containing PostgreSQL-BDR (Bi-Directional Replication), and Python applications  • Managed images on private repositories on Docker Hub  • Followed the Agile process for software development  • Managed source code with Git repositories  • Assisted with server configuration (CENTOS, PostgreSQL, Unicorn, Ruby/Rails, NGINX) LAMP Web Developer Relative-Marketing.com - San Angelo, TX May 2011 to November 2016 Relative Marketing is a small web design company based out of San Angelo, Texas.  • Followed design document specifications in order to create web application pages as designed for local businesses.  • Utilized JavaScript to enhance user experience.    Skills Used: PHP 5, MySQL, JavaScript, Bootstrap, CSS, and HTML. Senior Software Engineer Trofholz Inc. - California National Guard September 2014 to April 2015 Trofholz Inc. is a Department of Defense IT solutions provider tasked with developing and facilitating the integration of mission critical materials for enterprise clients via Web Portals. I worked with a team of developers on a project for the California National Guard to streamline and automate processes in the Business Intelligence department.    • Created project scope, system requirements, validation testing, and acceptance certification documentation.  • Identified and presented business and technical specifications based on business and customer needs.  • Developed SharePoint 2013 Provider-Hosted applications, SharePoint Event Receivers, SharePoint Web Parts.  • Developed SOAP web services, and Windows Forms Applications.  • Implemented solutions using Visual Studio 2013, IIS 8, CSS, HTML 5, C#, Microsoft SQL Server, .NET Framework 4.5, AJAX, JQuery, XML, PowerShell scripting, Object Oriented Development.  • Built development Server Environments on VMWare virtual machines to include, Microsoft SQL Server 2012 Server, Microsoft SharePoint 2013 Server to include TFS extensions, Microsoft Team Foundation Server (TFS) and Microsoft Project Server.  • Collaborated with other developers using Microsoft Team Foundation Server for source control, versioning, task management and bug reporting.  • Provided troubleshooting on user-reported system issues.  • Provided recommendations for management for hardware requirements.  • Served as a Team Lead for a small group of 3 developers. Software Engineer / Security Analyst Blue Cross Blue Shield of SC July 2013 to September 2014 Blue Cross Blue Shield of SC provides IT services to government agencies such as Medicare and Tricare across the US. I worked in the Security Compliance Department with 2 other developers. We implemented automated security compliance scans and developed reporting tools to extract and deliver the resulting compliance reports.  • Developed custom security audit reporting application tools using the Tenable Security Center JSON API to Nessus Security Center by applying strong C#, Microsoft SQL, Python, and SQLite coding scripting skills.  • Demonstrated strong analytical and planning skills while working as a project lead with a small group of new employees developing security compliance checklist tests (SCC's) for Nessus scanners from DISA Security Technical Implementation guide (STIG) releases for multiple systems administration teams.  • Developed UNIX shell scripts (AWK, SED, and BASH) and Windows PowerShell scripts to test for security compliance.  • Developed Application Documentation via a Django web application.  • Created Microsoft SQL queries and Stored Procedures for vulnerability reporting.  Skills Used: Visual Studio 2013, C#, SQL, SQLite, Python, Django, BASH, SED, AWK, Windows PowerShell, Nessus, Microsoft SQL Server 2008 R2, Windows Forms Versatile Technologist Boeing - USAFCENT June 2012 to June 2013 Boeing is the world's largest aerospace company and leading manufacturer of commercial jetliners and defense, space and security systems. I worked with a team providing support for a Multi-Level Security (MLS) access system in a high tempo military environment.  • Daily responsibilities include troubleshooting and problem solving of user issues, to include but not limited to; applications, network issues and client/server hardware related issues.  • Monitored production environments, the application of periodic patches, the granting of access to Citrix published applications, software installation and periodic software updates.  • Scripted maintenance and configuration solutions with PowerShell, VBS and Python.    Skills Used: VMWare, PowerShell, Citrix, Python, Terminal Services, Microsoft SQL Server 2008 R2, Windows 2008 Server, HTML, TFS 2013 NET Application Developer SRM Group - National Guard September 2011 to June 2012 SRM Group is a small consulting company offering Data Analysis and Research and Design services. I worked with one other developer on a data-reporting project for the USPFO for the Air National Guard for South Carolina.  • Provided ASP.net programming and Microsoft SQL 2008 support.  • Modified current ASP.net code to implement web application enhancements.  • Developed process workflows using SharePoint Designer leveraging workflow tasks, lists and document libraries.  • Developed windows forms applications with .NET framework 4 using C# and VB using object-oriented design and methodology.  • Created and Modified Oracle SQL queries and Stored Procedures using Oracle SQL Developer.  • Created MS SQL queries, databases, tables, and views using MS SQL Management Studio.  • Designed web interfaces using HTML / CSS.  • Created database ERD's using Microsoft Visio.  • Integrated Crystal Reports API into supporting web-reporting applications.    Skills Used: ASP.NET, Crystal Reports, VB.NET, Visual Studio 2010, SQL Server 2008 R2, Oracle RDBMS, C#, HTML, CSS Network Applications Engineer Time Warner Cable October 2007 to August 2010 Oceanic Time Warner Cable is a service provider for TV, Internet, Home Phone, Security, and corporate Hospitality Services for the entire state of Hawaii. I worked alone on back office applications related to managing CPE's (customer premises equipment) and billing.  • Developed and maintained internal web applications implemented using classic ASP and ASP.NET, C++, Microsoft SQL, SNMP, XML, CSS, HTML and Python.  • Created reports on request by writing custom SQL queries.  • Supervised System Administrators implementation of Server and Network Architecture.  • Provided Tier 4 support for service failures and restore service.  • Provided training and presentations to internal personnel and management.  • SQL Database Administration (DBA) (PostgreSQL).  • Installed, configured, maintained, and managed development tools and servers.  • Developed customized proactive network monitoring tools for application systems.  • Developed customized billing and Report applications using the Django web framework.    Skills Used: Python, C++, VB, HTML, XML, JavaScript, ASP.NET, PostgreSQL, SNMP, Microsoft SQL Server Component Manager Boeing May 2004 to October 2007 Boeing is the world's largest aerospace company and leading manufacturer of commercial jetliners and defense, space and security systems. I provided highly technical product support for Sun Java System Web Server, Python, Perl, and developed a few small applications used company wide.  • Developed Python and .NET (C# | VB) software solutions for video media and calendar management.  • Provided tier 4 support for Python programming language and modules (PyXML, SWIG, SOAP, etc.).  • Compiled and packaged Python from source code for AIX, HPUX, Linux, Solaris, and IRIX for internal company distribution.  • Provided Tier 4 support for Sun Java System Web Server (formerly SunONE, iPlanet).  • Developed and maintained internal Python and Sun Java System Web Servers.  • Project management of shared services pilots.    Skills Used: C#, Java, Python, ASP.NET, Perl, AIX, HPUX, Solaris, BASH, IRIX, Linux, Red Hat Enterprise License (RHEL) Systems Administrator Boeing February 2001 to May 2004 • Provided troubleshooting support and root cause analysis for over 1000 File/Web/App/SQL Servers for the Data Center through the use of knowledge bases like TechNet, and other resources.  • Kept track of support calls via Microsoft Access until Remedy ticketing was implemented.  • Monitored servers on wide area networks (WAN) for intrusion detection and security compliance with various tools (Check Point, Big Brother, McAfee AV).  • Maintained security patch management.  • Provided training and procedure documentation.  • Implemented data loss protection (DLP) backup procedures (VERITAS Net Backup, Backup Exec).  • Provide full-phase analysis, design, development, testing and implementation of PC applications.  Skills Used: VB, Access, NetBackup, Backup Exec, Check Point, Big Brother Systems Operator VoiceStream November 2000 to February 2001 VoiceStream (now T-Mobile) is a national provider of wireless voice, messaging, and data services.  • Followed procedures for monitoring servers supporting the billing database and HPUX web servers running Open View ITO (OVO)  • Moderated VIP conference calls for VoiceStream Operations; provided NT4/Win2K troubleshooting for local workstations.  Skills Used: C#, ASP.NET, DynaTrace, Ants Profiler Tech Support Specialist Sierra On-Line April 2000 to November 2000 Sierra On-Line was a game publisher acquired by Vivendi/Blizzard Games that merged with Activision in 2008 known for games such as Half-Life and King's Quest. It was where I started my successful career in IT.  • Provided software troubleshooting via phones and email [determined the problems of customers ranging from beginners to advanced users and walked them through steps in a way that they could understand].  • Compiled work-around solutions for known issues.  • Trained new employees; tested and classified bugs for pre-release (alpha) software.  Skills Used: batch programming, troubleshooting, QA testing Python Developer TEKsystems - Bank of the West - San Ramon, CA April 2015 TEKsystems is a subsidiary of Allegis Group, one of the largest and most reliable staffing agencies, who currently holds an industry-leading position providing IT staffing solutions, and IT Service management. TEKsystems quickly assigned me to a team working with Essex Credit, a branch of Bank of the West. I provided custom online loan application processing solutions and restful API's for partners such as Good Sam Club and others.    • Developed a custom user interface using the Django Content Management System administration tool to facilitate the management of all websites.  • development and implemented the user registration and login feature for loan application processes.  • Securely redesigned network and deployment procedures for DEV, QA, UAT and production servers using a combination of GitLab web hooks, GIT hooks and the python Fabric library.  • Used Restful web service calls for the valuations of NADA, an online portal for the pricing and information of Boats and RV's.  • Utilized South for schema and data migration for the PostgreSQL database and worked on an upgrade path for applications from South to use the latest version of Django.  • Composed Django unit tests for every application to aid in code changes and debugging.  • Wrote and edited existing complex Python scripts for the creation of XML, DNG and DNA files to be exported to loan decision servers.  • Developed user-friendly modals for form submissions using SimpleModal, jQuery, Ajax and JavaScript.  • Worked with product owners, project managers and vendors to satisfy all the business needs.  • Utilized Django middleware, custom template tags and filters.  • Authored website rich user interface and user experience (UI/UX) using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript running on NGINX, UWSGI, PostgreSQL and RHEL 7.  • Implemented a solution using rsync enabling nearly real-time syncing of Django static cached files (CSS, Images, JavaScript, etc.) across load-balanced web servers.  • Resolved and tracked software issues using GitLab.  Skills Used: Python 2.7.10, Django, HTML, CSS, JSON, REST, XML, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap, Git, Fabric, PostgreSQL, SAML, LDAP, Visual Studio 2015, PTVS, Bash Education Computer Science University of South Carolina Bachelor's in Computer Science Seattle Pacific University Computer Science Everett Community College Skills Python (10+ years), C# (8 years), HTML (10+ years), C++ (4 years), .NET (10+ years), Javascript (10+ years), JQuery (4 years), PHP (10+ years), JSON (3 years), Visual Studio (10+ years), PostgresSQL (10+ years), NGINX (2 years), MySQL (7 years), CSS (10+ years), Windows Server (10+ years), Linux (10+ years), Solaris (6 years), Xcode (5 years), Git (3 years) Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Security+ CE November 2014 to November 2017 CompTIA A+ Present Hardware Certification