Software Engineer III Software Engineer III Software Engineer III Denver, CO Work Experience Software Engineer III Rackspace August 2018 to November 2018 Develop Python REST API containing network infrastructure provisioning  automation for world class datacenters Senior Software Engineer Leadpages April 2017 to July 2017 Greater Minneapolis-St. Paul Area    At Leadpages I helped maintain their web application backend which was  written in Python, built on Webapp2, and deployed to Google AppEngine. I  fixed several bugs with the software including issues related to credit cards / billing, REST API integrations, and live data updates to the browser. Software Developer ONE20 Inc December 2016 to March 2017 Greater Minneapolis-St. Paul Area    With One20 I helped maintain their existing applications including a Java  REST API and Wordpress sites. I also helped design their new mobile  application. Software Developer Flywheel.io August 2016 to November 2016 Greater Minneapolis-St. Paul Area    At Flywheel I created a RAML specification for the Flywheel REST API. I also helped automate tests and fixed bugs in the software. The REST API was  written in Python, built on webapp2, and deployed with docker. Software Developer ( Python) Hurricane Labs November 2014 to July 2016 work from home    I built custom solutions for Hurricane Labs, usually involving Python and HTTP API's. I also did a lot of "DevOps" work, helping to package and deploy  applications or manage resources in AWS. A few projects I completed include:    - Built production quality HTTP API's in Python running on EC2    - Wrote custom software to back up network devices and store the backups in SAN    - Re-factored and updated the customer portal website (Django). More than  halved the home page load time and migrated the application to EC2    - Planned and executed transition from legacy in-house ticketing software  to Zendesk, including custom integration into the portal website and data  migration from the legacy system    - Introduced automated monitoring of application errors, substantially  improving customer experience when they have an error in the website    - Wrote several open-source Python libraries used both internally and externally    - Reverse engineered the undocumented install process for some legacy  applications and automated it to a one-click build Software Developer ( Python) Digi International July 2014 to November 2014 Develop and maintain embedded Python solutions running on Linux.    Accomplishments:    - Designed a framework for building python packages that recursively installs  version-controlled dependencies with pip, runs tests with nose, and builds  documentation with Sphinx.    - Helped design and build a Python solution to monitor Digi products and report metrics to our SaaS offering called Device Cloud    - Designed and built a Python solution to allow interfacing with the cell modem  in various Digi products via the serial port    - Helped build a custom web server written in Python designed to serve pages  in a low-resource environment, such as on Digi devices Engineer Telsasoft October 2013 to July 2014 Develop and maintain monitoring software used by regional cell phone carriers to gain insights into their network health and performance.    Accomplishments:    - Quickly learned legacy code base, written in Python and running on Linux    - Self-prioritized time while combating regression in legacy code    - Wrote drop-in replacement for the network health component of our software,  increasing performance enough to shift bottleneck to a different component.  The new network health component also allowed better data retention and recovery in the event of an error, inspection of our running system, and the  automatic generation of useful test cases based on production behavior.  Decreased time required to create a new network health plugin to 2-3 days, down from 2 weeks in old framework.    - Created plugins for the network performance portion of our software, used to monitor things like data throughput and call success rate on the cell networks Enterprise Technology Specialist Skyway Techs - Minneapolis, MN April 2013 to October 2013 Consult small to medium business' on their computer systems and deploy  enterprise level technology. Full management of business computer systems  Administrate Active Directory environments, Microsoft Exchange, and MSSQL.  Troubleshoot and fix a wide variety of problems with servers and networks.  Develop and implement network and server redundancy, prevent data loss,  provide solutions for increased uptime.    Barrister Global Services Network Field Technician November 2012 to January 2013 Replace bad parts in laptop and desktop. Troubleshoot / Repair servers. New  server installs, install rackmount networking equipment, configure Windows Data Analyst and Systems Administrator Group 3 Marketing October 2011 to August 2012 Wayzata    Systems administrator - Build and maintain servers, Configure MySQL server for proper resource use, Configure FTP and Web servers, Apache Vhosts    Support Workstation Hardware and Software (Windows 7, Microsoft Office,  Windows 2003 Domain)    Network administrator - Network and firewall administration, cloud network  administration.  PHP Developer - Outside of Sysadmin and Network responsibilities, I develop  object-oriented PHP programs to perform a number of tasks Network Support Engineer Ecessa Corporation - Plymouth, MN 2003 to 2008 Answer customer phone calls and file ticket in Zendesk. Troubleshoot and configure Ecessa devices. Troubleshoot and configure VPN, Load-Balanced  DNS, Firewall, etc. Skills AWS. (1 year), DNS (5 years), HTTP (1 year), Linux. (1 year), Python (3 years) Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/colton Additional Information Top Skills  to execute projects and deliver high quality results. I love solving  Linux  problems and using my skills to help clients. My area of expertise  DNS  is programming in Python, especially to design, build, and deploy  Apache  HTTP API's. This includes experience with AWS and Google Cloud.  I am also adept with automated testing, central logging and error