Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Walgreens Chicago, IL ? 4+ years of experience in Design, Development, Implementation of Python, Django, java script and client-server technology based applications.  ? Experienced in developing web based applications using HTML/HTML5, DHTML, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, JQuery UI, Angular JS, AJAX, XML and JSON.  ? Designed and implemented large scale business critical systems using Object oriented Design and Programming concepts using Python and Django.  ? Worked on several standard python packages like Numpy, matPlotLib, Pickle, PySide, Scipy, wxPython, PyTables etc.  ? Worked on various applications using python integrated IDEs Eclipse, PyCharm, NetBeans and Geany.  ? Good experience in developing web applications and implementing Model View Control (MVC) architecture using server side applications like Django, Flask and Pyramid.  ? Working knowledge on Hadoop, Spark, Big data Technologies  ? Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  ? Implemented responsive web pages using HTML5/CSS3, Bootstrap and XML/JSON based SOAP and REST web services.  ? Good experience in handling errors/exceptions and debugging the issues in large scale applications.  ? Hands on experience working in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python/PHP) Architecture.  ? Experienced in using Caching applications for large scale applications like Memcached, Redis.  ? Expertise in working with different databases like Oracle, MySQL, PostgreSQL and Good knowledge in using NoSQL databases MongoDB (2.6,2.4)  ? Proficient in developing complex SQL queries, Stored Procedures, Functions, Packages along with performing DDL and DML operations on the database.  ? Experience working with C++ and Object oriented programming.  ? Excellent working knowledge in UNIX and Linux shell environments using command line utilities.  ? Expertise in Production support and Knowledge of deployment using Heroku and Jenkins.  ? Experience working in both water fall and Agile software methodologies.  ? Familiarity with development best practices such as code reviews, unit testing, system integration testing (SIT) and user acceptance testing(UAT).  ? Hands on experience in working with various Version Control Systems, mostly GIT, CVS and subversion SVN.  ? Involved in all the phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) using Project management tools JIRA, Redmine and Bugzilla.  ? Highly motivated, quality minded developer, with proven ability to deliver applications against tight deadlines.  ? Possess good interpersonal, analytical presentation Skills, ability to work in Self-managed and Team environments.  ? Well versed with Agile and Test driven development methodologies.  ? Wrote Junit test cases for unit, integration, and functional tests, run automatically by Hudson/Jenkins in the builds triggered by each push to GIT.  ? Performed code reviews and implemented best Python programming practices  ? Experience in writing test scripts, test cases, test specifications and test coverage. Work Experience Python Developer Walgreens - Chicago, IL March 2016 to Present Chicago IL Mar 2016 - Present  Walgreens, one of the nation's largest drugstore chains, is included in the Retail Pharmacy USA Division of Walgreens Boots Alliance, Inc., the first global pharmacy-led, health and wellbeing enterprise. More than 10 million customers interact with Walgreens each day in communities across America, using the most convenient, multichannel access to consumer goods and services and trusted, cost-effective pharmacy, health and wellness services and advice.    Python Developer  This project is mainly involved in developing the web application using python 2.7 version and Django framework in frontend application. Connected the application to AWS using amazon beanstalk using Django framework to run the application on server.  Responsibilities:  * Analyzed and gathered business requirements specifications by interacting with client and understanding business requirement specification documents.  * Developed the presentation layer using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery and AJAX.  * Used JQuery libraries for all client side JavaScript manipulations.  * Utilized Python libraries wxPython, numPY, Twisted and matPlotLib.  * Implemented SQL Alchemy which is a python library for complete access over SQL.  * Worked on Element Tree XML API in python to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  * Skilled in collections and used for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  * Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to created user-friendly website interface.  * Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  * Created entire application using Python, Django, MySQL and Linux.  * Installed, configured, and managed the AWS server.  * Developed API using node.js, express JS and Mongoose.  * Build prototype for various required services such as Scheduling, Logging and Notification services using third party Node JS based JavaScript library.  * Working on generating various dashboard in Tableau Server using different data source systems like flat files, Excel, Oracle and SQL server.  * Added dynamic functionality to the application by implementing JQuery, Node.js.  * Modularized front end CSS and JS code with Sass. Built areal time mouse/click user analytics web service with Node.js.  * Revived the brand by incorporating identity to all digital marketing platforms.  * Integrated traditional marketing and digital marketing initiatives.  * Instrumental in opening new global markets and dealers with global marketing initiatives.  * Increased customer post purchase interaction with the creation of a digital post purchase program complete with analytics and measurable.    Environment:  Python 2.7, Django 1.6, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, MYSQL, Linux, Heroku, GIT. Python Developer TRG Group September 2015 to March 2016 Sep 2015 - Mar 2016  Title Resource Group (TRG) is a driving force in the title and settlement services industry. TRG is national in scope, but each of its companies are locally staffed, with a wealth of experience in settlement services. We operate in 48 states as well as the District of Columbia, and provide closing services in all 50. TRG is a subsidiary of Realogy Holdings Corp. Realogy is a publicly traded company and a global provider of real estate services. It franchises and owns several of the industry's leading real estate brands and brokerages.    Python Developer  Concentrated on developing reports of the data that has total information of patient using pandas and Hive. Delivering reports on preliminary research and examines the existing data available to related problem. With the information, client can find methods of saving money and improving work efficiency  Responsibilities:  * Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  * Implemented AJAX for dynamic functionality of a web pages for front end applications.  * Worked on front end frameworks like CSS Bootstrap for responsive web pages.  * Implemented presentation layer using CSS framework, Node JS, angular JS, Wire-Framing and HTML5.  * Designed and led big data algorithms using Hadoop and Java to improve forecasting and used Hive QL to generate reports.  * Analysis, design and development of Web & Enterprise applications using JAVA and J2EE Technologies.  * Design and development of the new Technical flow based on JAVA/J2EE technologies.  * Used integrated environment for java such as Eclipse, RAD, NetBeans, Clear Case and VSS.  * Working knowledge of Java Web Services with real time knowledge using SOAP and REST.  * Worked on server side applications with Django using Python programming.  * Automated the existing scripts for performance calculations using machine library like Numpy and SQL Alchemy for Insurance premium.  * Used Airflow for Data warehousing, Growth analytics, Email targeting, Sessionization, Data infrastructure maintenance.  * Developed Python code for different tasks, dependencies, SLA watcher and time sensor for each job for workflow management and automation using Airflow tool.  * Checking airflow logs for job failure error messages and resolving.  * Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to created user-friendly website interface.  * Utilized standard Python modules such as CSV and pickle for development.  * Developed Wrapper in Python for instantiating multi-threaded application.  * Used Pandas for a data alignment and data manipulation.  * The Batch process was developed using Java and SQL Stored Procedures.  • Importing and exporting data into HDFS and Hive using Sqoop and Kafka.  • Used POC's with the Confluent Schema Registry, Rest Proxy, Kafka Connectors for Cassandra and HDFS.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.4, CSS, HTML, BOOTSTRAP, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, MYSQL, Linux, Heroku, GIT. Software programmer Graks Infotech - Hyderabad, ANDHRA PRADESH, IN June 2014 to June 2014 Hyderabad, India. Aug 20012- Jun 2014  Graks Infotech brings IT Services, Operations Management and Business Transformation services under one roof providing a holistic approach to solving complex business problems. Leveraging our offshore delivery infrastructure and our global network of sales and service offices.  Software programmer  This prototyping project is for Wiley to identify weather 2 authors are same or different. It is a partial working model with various open sources technology    Responsibilities:  * Used Agile Methodology and SCRUM Process.  * Worked with the Stakeholders, gathered requirements developed High level design Detail design documents.  * Developed UI using HTML, AJAX, Java script and jQuery and JQuery UI.  * Re-engineered various modules for implementing changes and creating efficient system.  * Developed rich UI web application using java script libraries like JQuery UI, data grid, Jscolor, high charts.  * Designed and developed components using Python with Django framework. Implemented code in python to retrieve and manipulate data.  * Implemented database access using Django ORM.  * Used MySQL as backend database and MySQL dB of python as database connector to interact with MySQL server.  * Used Restful APIs to access data from different suppliers.  * Support the scripts configuration, testing, execution, deployment and run monitoring and metering.  * Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing of documents, data exchange and business logic implementation between servers.  * Used Restful API's to gather network traffic data from Servers.  * Supported Apache Tomcat web server on Linux Platform.  * Developed and executed User Acceptance Testing portion of test plan.  * Debugging Software for Bugs.  Environment: Python 2.4, Django, C++, HTML Restful API, Mysql, Shell Scripting, PL/SQL, Unix, Linux Education Master's in Information Systems Wilmington University Skills HTML (1 year), SQL (1 year), XML (1 year), MS SQL SERVER (1 year), ORACLE (1 year) Additional Information Skills:    BI Tools Tableau 8.x/7.x/6.x, Business Objects, SSRS, Cognos    Relational Databases MS SQL Server 2005/08/10/12, Oracle 8i/9i/10g/11g, Teradata, MS Access.  Tools and Packages SQL Server Management studio, SSIS Toad, Profiler, Microsoft Visual Studio.  Languages SQL, PL/SQL, C, HTML, XML    Operating Systems Windows 9x/XP/2000/Vista/7, Unix  Configuration Management Tools Team Foundation Server