ServiceNow Administrator/ BA ServiceNow Administrator/ BA ServiceNow Administrator/ BA - Sabre 55801, MN • Over 9 years of experience in IT industry and 3 years of experience in ServiceNow Platform.  • Over 6 years of experience as a QA consultant and was responsible for testing efforts for implementation of all RMS change requests and supported multiple projects in RMS ( Retek Merchandising Systems - An Oracle Retail Application):  • Hands on experience on various ServiceNow Modules like Service Catalog, Incident, Problem Change Management, SCRUM, CMDB (Configuration Management Database), Asset, Knowledge, Release, Content Management, Reporting and Integration with Web Services.  • Experience in, Monitoring tools, Bridge calls, Outage Communication, Business Impact Analysis, IT Service Continuity Management, SLA Management.  • Designed and developed Client Scripts, Business rules, ACLs and JavaScripting in Service Now.  • Experience in Integration in Service Now with various external Web Services also  • Experience in configuring in Email notifications in Service Now, UI Pages, UI Macro, Scheduled jobs, Script includes, Events.  • Strong skill set in Service Now suite development including SOAP/REST integration, Web Services, Discovery, Workflow, CMDB.  • Experience on doing required Single-Sign-On integration.  • Extensive experience in SDLC implementation on projects with Waterfall and Agile methodologies such as Test-Driven Development (TDD) and Scrum.  • Experience on Configuring rules, monitors and management packs in SCOM and involved in testing reports for correct mapping of the objects and data.  • Extensive experience in UAT and managing cross-functional teams of business analysts, developers and testers.  • Excellent communication, analytical, interpersonal, and presentation skills withdemonstrated success for interfacing with customers, customer satisfaction, interactionswith internal as well as external working groups  • Expert at managing multiple projects simultaneously and presenting ideas tomanagement. Work Experience ServiceNow Administrator/ BA Sabre - Southlake, TX September 2015 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in creating Technical Design Documentation for Migration from existing technologies to ServiceNow.  • Worked on various modules of ServiceNow like Incident management, Change management, Problem management, Service Catalog, User Administration, Reporting and Discovery.  • Worked on CMDB and Asset management. Performed Data migration to import data from other applications and external databases.  • Designed and implemented new functionality using UI Policies and Data Policy.  • Responsible for creating various workflows for Incident Management, Change Management, Service Requests and SLA's.  • Customization of form design and layout for various ITIL process for Incident Management, Problem Management, Knowledge Management, Change Management, Asset Management and Service Catalog.  • Configured multiple Catalog Items Front-end web / GUI components using JavaScript, CSS, HTML5.  • Worked on order guides for Order guide, to arrange them in sequential order to make the user comfortable while raising a request.  • Maintenance of variable sets by required variables in different Catalogs items and as per the Catalogs item requirements.  • Involved in developing Service catalogs which includes creation of new Catalog items, designing workflows and execution plans.  • Involved in redesigning the workflows using Servicenow workflow editor.  • Designed email templates by using HTML and jelly scripting and used them in notifications.  • Developed workflows and in customizing the applications in ServiceNow using Java script, AJAX, HTML.  • Manage ITIL Processes monitoring overall system performance using the System Performance and System Diagnostic dashboards.  • Involved in Production Support for all the ServiceNow related issues.  • Worked on Agile method environment and implemented the changes required by the business owners on a regular basis. ServiceNow Admin/ Developer McKesson, Location - San Francisco, CA July 2014 to August 2015 Responsibilities:  • Gathered the requirements and assisted the management in documentation phase. Suggested and guided them to follow certain process.  • Performed platform configurations by changing the Company Name, logo, and color theme to reflect the corporate brand.  • Integrated ServiceNow Dev instance with the existing LDAP and Single Sign-On (SSO) solution.  • Assigned the roles to the group and users and created customized roles as per the requirement.  • Created customized Control, Indicator and indicator task forms and configured the fields and functions related.  • Removed and added the fields and configured with the dropdown choice list, pick list, etc., as per the requirement.  • Robust experience on scripting, both server and client-side scripting.  • Used Client scripts, Business Rules, UI Actions, UI Policies, Script Includes and Transform Maps.  • Involved in using the Access Control List (ACL) to restrict and give section access to the users.  • Configured the Email notifications, inbound and outbound. And given the desired conditions as to when the email needs to trigger and who receives it.  • Customized to each person's task whether a control owner, tester or a reviewer.  • Experience in using the Application Programming Interface (API) that provide the classes and methods which were used in scripts to define functionality.  • Managed imports of CI Application/Infrastructure data within the CMDB tables in ServiceNow.  • Implemented CMDB Bi-directional Web Services integration. It involves consuming Restful web services, publishing SOAP web services, using Business Rules, Script Includes, UI Actions and other ServiceNow scripting modules to support data synchronization and business logic.  • MySQL queries to get data to be filtered out from the database.  • Involved in writing Catalog client scripts and UI policies to make client side changes.  • Involved in giving demos on ServiceNow and gathering requirements from Client. ServiceNow Administrator/ Developer DirecTV/AT&T - El Segundo, CA November 2013 to June 2014 Responsibilities:  • Worked with process owners and business stakeholders to translate business requirements into functional requirements within ServiceNow.  • Ensured development opportunities on ServiceNow platform are identified to meet evolving business needs and align with key business strategies.  • Coordinate and participate in ServiceNow Incident / Request Management testing lifecycle.  • Use JavaScript to create Business Rules, Client Scripts, UI Policies, and UI Actions.  • Created various workflows for Incident, Change Management, Service Requests and SLA's.  • Assist in the import of configuration and asset data.  • Implementation, customization and configuration of different Service Manager Modules like Change Request, Service Desk, Service Catalog, and Problem.  • Working on Report, dashboard designing with performance analytics.  • Created data sources and loaded the ServiceNow tables with different data formats.  • Built forms from scratch along with advance customizations at the level of UIMacros/UI page as per the complex requirements.  • Created many standard workflows which are being re-used and propagated and handled many custom events.  • Responsible for the ServiceNow tool administration module and creation of new Users, Roles, IT Services, Application, Business Services and Rules.  • Setting up Configuration Management from scratch defining the CI classes and their relationships.  • Developed SLA and reporting.  • Design and Implementation of service requests through service catalogue in ServiceNow.  • Configured Email, inbound and outbound email actions and developed mail scripts on need basis.  • Working on the release and Problem management requirements gathering through testing.  • Working on the functionality of Inventory Management plugin into Asset Management.  • Developed automated mappings to schedule the load flat files on daily, weekly& monthly basis. Pharmaceutical Product Development, NC November 2010 to October 2013 QA Test Engineer    Responsibilities:  • Creating Test scenarios and Test cases for Engineering Change Description.  • Ensure all the test cases are updated in the Quality Manager along with test plan.  • Involved in Implementation of the Test plan, various Test cases and Test scripts including validating the data at Backend.  • Involved in the Weekly Defect Status Meetings along with QA team and Development team.  • Led and collaborated with Global Cross Functional teams to ensure Testing Execution and Tracking of defects in HP Quality Center  • During System Testing Life Cycle, performed different types of testing, such as GUI, Functional, Integration and Positive & Negative Testing.  • Involved in Web services testing using SOAPUI Tool  • Involved in all stages of Software Development Life Cycle such as Analysis, Design, Development, Testing and Documentation.  • Created Test data sets for the Data verification and Validation of the application by conducting Positive, Negative and Boundary testing.  • Involved on testing the new functionalities based on test cases coordinated with development team in fixing the issues.  • Involved in Integration Testing of modules for the application and used Unix Commands for File Interface testing.  • Involved in Smoke Testing, Sanity Testing, Regression Testing, Functional Testing, GUI Testing, End To End Testing, Data Base testing, UAT Testing.  • Executed the test scripts and compared the Actual and Expected results.  • Conducted Database testing using SQL queries.  • Tested the Backend Data Base by preparing Queries with SQL to retrieve data from database. QA Test Engineer/ Python Arsin Corporation - Hyderabad, Telangana January 2007 to September 2010 Responsibilities:  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django/Java module to deliver the required format of data.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Analyzing the Business Requirement Document, High level and Low-level design documents.  • Create and review - Test scenarios, Test suite preparation, Test Data creation, Test case execution and Defect logging.  • Automation of functional testing framework for all modules using Selenium Web Driver.  • Automating the regression & project cases using Selenium.  • Designed Hybrid framework in Selenium and captured data dynamically from web controls.  • Configured Selenium WebDriver, TestNG and created Selenium Automation Scripts in java.  • Point of contact for Process related activities like Metrics reporting&Operation clarity.  • Review - Defect prevention plan and Software configuration management plan.  • Organize weekly meetings with offshore managers, Onsite Coordinator & Onsite manager to discuss the Project goals and report the health of the overall project status.  • Performed Integration Testing in Vendor Development environment and System Testing in SIT environment and User Acceptance Testing in Pre-Production Environment.  • Involved Preparation of Traceability Matrix and Mapping the Test Cases with the requirements and Test Metrics in Quality Center.  • Performed Regression Testing as part of every build.  • Developed SQL Queries for testing various Database validations.  • Created and Executed automated test scripts for regression testing using QTP/UFT.  • Automation Framework implementation for UFT / QTP. Education Masters in Computer Science Towson University JNTU - Hyderabad, Telangana Skills DATABASE (7 years), TESTING (7 years), SQL (6 years), MYSQL (4 years), JAVASCRIPT (3 years) Additional Information Technical Skill Set    ITSM Tools ServiceNow: Berlin/Calgary/Dublin/Eureka/Fuji, Geneva, Helsinki, Istanbul, Samanage  Languages JavaScript, Jelly, SQL, HTML, XML  Database Oracle 8.x/9i/10g/11g, SQL Server 2000/2005/2012, MySQL 5.0/4.1, MS Access, DB2    Operating Systems Windows, Linux  Automation Testing Tools SOAPUI, Quick Test Pro (QTP), Quality Center, Selenium  Performance Testing Tools Performance tester, Load Runner