Sr. DevOps Engineer/Build & Release Engineer Sr. DevOps Engineer/Build &amp; Release Engineer Sr. DevOps Engineer/Build & Release Engineer - Bank of America ? About 10+years of experience as a SCM, DevOps Engineer in solving complex problems with creative solutions, supporting development, Deployment operations in different environments.  ? Experienced in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle(SDLC), Quality Assurance Life Cycle(QALC), Linux Adminstration, Software Configuration Management(SCM), Continuous Integration(CI), Continuous Deployment(CD), Release Management, Cloud Implementations and configurations.  ? Efficient in setting up Dev-Ops Automation, Configuration & Release management activities in Financial, Retail and Commerce industry.  ? Implemented Continuous Integration and deployment using various Configuration Management tools like Jenkins, Chef, Puppet, Docker, Ansible.  ? Created and managed a Docker deployment pipeline for custom application images in the cloud using Jenkins.  ? Experience in provisioning VM's and creating cloud formation stacks in AWS and Chef.  ? Excellent understanding of source-code management principles and systems, particularly GIT managing virtual development environments with Chef and Virtual Box using Vagrant.  ? In-depth understanding of the principles and best practices of computer applications and scripting like Shell, Python & Perl.  ? Excellent knowledge of Amazon EC2, Amazon S3, DynamoDB, Amazon Elastic Load Balancing and other services of the AWS family.  ? Ability in deploying the developed code in a WebSphere, WebLogic, Apache Tomcat/JBOSS.  ? Excellent knowledge on Java/J2EE and also the ability of developing XML, HTML, Shell Scripts and Perl Scripts.  ? Strong use of Shell scripting languages including BASH for Linux and Mac and Power Shell for Windows systems.  ? Efficient in working closely with core product teams to ensure high quality and timely delivery of builds.  ? Conduct systems design, feasibility and cost studies and recommend cost-effective cloud solutions such as Amazon Web Services, Google Web Services.  ? Java Application Server administration and tuning experience in Tomcat, WebLogic, WebSphere.  ? Expertise in Installing, Configuring, Administering, Tuning and Troubleshooting, WebLogic, apache 2.x, WebSphere Application server 6.1, IBM HTTP Server 6.0/7.0  ? Troubleshoot and debug web and application servers for system and application issues.  ? Ability in managing all aspects of the software configuration management process including code compilation, packaging/deployment/release methodology application configurations.  ? Expertise in Querying RDBMS such as Oracle, SQL Server using SQL, PL/SQL for data integrity.  ? Created CM Plans and Test Plans for Applications and also created SCM Process, policies and procedures to follow Development and QA teams to Release or Deploy highest quality product for the enterprise.  ? Coordinated different teams across the globe to deploy different builds to different environments on parallel development for multiple projects.  ? Good analytical, problem solving, communication skills and have the ability to work either independently with little or no supervision or as a member of a team. Work Experience Sr. DevOps Engineer/Build & Release Engineer Bank of America - New York, NY February 2015 to Present Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Expert knowledge and experience with software version control systems: SVN, GIT (GitHub/Gitlab).  ? Worked with Java build systems and tools including: Gradle, Maven, Ant and SBT.  ? Used vitualization technologies like VMWare, Vagrant, and KVM. Responsible for CI and CD using Jenkins, Run deck and Chef.  ? Developed installer scripts using Ant, Python, and UNIX for various products to be hosted on Application servers.  ? Rapid-provisioning and configuration management for Ubuntu using Chef on Amazon Web Services.  ? Managed SVN repositories for branching, merging, and tagging.  ? Written/Developed Chef Cookbooks to automate the entire deployment process as well as infrastructure admin tasks and custom installation of application.  ? Developed Shell/Perl/Ruby/PHP Scripts for automation purpose. Back-end or full stack development on MVC frameworks.  ? Experienced developing for cloud services such as AWS.  ? Experienced with virtual Appliance OVA packaging for packaging and distributing Purpose.  ? Servers configure management via Puppet or Chef and System orchestration via Ansible.  ? Maintain Chef Servers and management application that can use Service Now (CI) data to bring computers into a desired state by managing files, services, or packages installed on physical or virtual machines.  ? Worked with Chef which is used to manage Linux but later versions support Microsoft Windows.  ? Work closely with other testers and developers to improve automated framework (JUnit/selenium) with bug fixes and feature requests.  ? Proficient with ClearCase, ClearQuest, Oracle database, PL/SQL.  ? Used YUM-RPM package management used in Linux environment for graphical user Interface.  ? Used Puppet to automate Configuration management & Applications and to manage Web Applications, Config Files, Data Base, Commands, Users Mount Points, and Packages.  ? Maintained and coordinated environment configuration, controls, code integrity, and code conflict resolution.  ? Installing, configuring and administering Jenkins CI tool on Linux machines. DevOps /Sr. Build & Release Engineer NetJets - Columbus, OH March 2012 to December 2014 Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Primary responsibilities include Build and Deployment of the java applications onto different environments like Dev, QA, UAT and Prod.  ? Responsible for architecting, implementing, and maintaining automation tools to reduce time and complexity of operations and development tasks  ? Written chef cookbooks to provisioning and managing Linux servers. Automated infrastructure admin tasks with Puppet and Run deck.  ? Integrated ant with Shell scripts created in Bash to automate the builds for the Java based applications.  ? Managed the deployment activities for multiple server instances by enabling password-less SSH communication between the servers and utilizing the Rsync utility in the shell scripts.  ? Installed Jenkins on a Linux machine and created a master and slave configuration to implement multiple parallel builds through a build farm.  ? Responsible for designing and deploying best SCM processes and procedures.  ? Integrated Subversion and Ant/Maven with Jenkins to implement the continuous integration process.  ? Created Ant, Perl & UNIX scripts for build activities in QA, Staging and Production environments.  ? Worked on the transition project that involved migration activities to Maven from Ant to standardize the build across all the applications.  ? Used Nexus tool to manage the repository in Maven and used the same to share the snapshots and releases of internal projects.  ? Created the branches in Subversion to implement the parallel development process.  ? Implemented Sparse Branching concept of Subversion to avoid the additional overhead of having complete branches.  ? Merged release branches to the trunk after the production release and resolved the conflicts arise during the merge.  ? Used Anthill Pro as an Application Lifecycle Management (ALM) Tool to manage and track all the automation and deployment activities in PROD.  ? Installed and administered Anthill Pro to automate the deployment process through workflows.  ? Dependencies are automated in Anthill Pro to be addressed at every deployment to an environment.  ? Automated the deployment and server bounce process by creating the scripts using WebLogic Scripting Tool (WLST).  ? Deployed the build artifacts like wars and ears into a WebLogic app server by integrating the WLST scripts to Anthill Pro.  ? Maintained all the UNIX, Linux and Solaris environments for deployments.  ? Implemented Configuration Management, Change Management policies and procedures.  ? Maintained configuration files for each application for the purpose of builds and installed on different environments.  ? Used JIRA and Bugzilla as Defect Tracking Tools.  ? Directed the Release Management Calls to synchronize with the Developers, Testers and DBA teams for successful Release.  ? Responsible for the Code Freeze and Stage Freeze Activities before the implementation in Production environment.  ? Used Remedy to track the Change requests and Release requests for all the approvals and signoffs and other necessary attributes.  ? Presented reports to the Project manager about the progress and issues tracking key project Milestones, plans and resources.  ? Responsible for GITHUB administration. Configured GIT Repos for multiple projects.  ? Proposed best branching strategy in GIT for parallel developments.  ? Trained Developers on basic usage of GIT for their day-to-day activities.  Environment: UNIX, LINUX, Solaris, JAVA, QA, Puppet, Jenkins, GIT, Ant, PERL, JIRA, BugZilla, WebLogic Sr. Java/ Python Developer Verizon Communication - Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh June 2009 to September 2011 Responsibilities:  ? Excellent general programming skills and understanding of OO concepts.  ? Experienced in front-end frameworks like AngularJS.  ? Administered Perforce, proposed and implemented branching strategy suitable for agile/scrum development in a Fast Paced Engineering Environment.  ? Designed and delivered scalable back- end development and full stack development on MV.  ? Development and deployment of distributed Python applications to AWS.  ? Used Jenkins for Automating Build & Deployments and providing a complete automation solution.  ? Performed setup of clustered environment setups with WebSphere/WebLogic Application Server.  ? Wrote scripts to perform deploy to tomcat webserver and WebSphere App Servers.  ? Owned build farm and produced effective multiple branch builds to support parallel development using Jenkins.  ? Managed the entire Release Communication and Co-ordination Process.  ? Deployed the artifacts generated by the Ant build into the WebSphere application server.  ? Integrated QTP kickoff scripts as Post DEV Deployment steps to return smoke test results.  ? Helped in Application Monitoring Setup by scanning the logs at various levels and notifying appropriate teams by email alerts.  ? Managed all the change requests (CRs) to production using the Remedy tracking tool, which includes monitoring the sign-offs and approvals.  ? Performed a few Database administration tasks on Oracle DB server like DB Creation, DB backup/restores, shrinking space etc.    Environment: AngularJS, Agile, Scrum, AWS, Jenkins, Python, WebLogic, WebSphere, Oracle DB server. Java Developer ADP - Edison, NJ April 2006 to May 2009 Responsibilities:  ? Worked on Java/J2EE Coding for Portal Applications. Worked on Tomcat Web server for hosting web apps.  ? Used Perforce version control system to manage different builds for the system. Involved in writing Shell scripts for compilation and deployment process.  ? Worked with Jira, a tool that handles DCR (defect Change Request) MR (Maintenance Request).  ? Worked in creating WebSphere Application Server Clustered Environments and handling Load Balancing for QA, UAT and Production.  ? Involved in writing Perl and shell scripts for compilation and deployment process.  ? Good command in writing ANT scripts for making all the files local to the server.  ? Created activities and assigned to Developers to fulfill the client requirements.  ? Worked extensively with Visual Studio.  ? Created deployment tickets using Jira for build deployment in Production. Represented the deployment requests in the ALCCB and ECCB.  ? Collected the approvals for deploying the code to production. Created diff files and check sum files for production support.  ? Involved in working with WebSphere App server admin console for deploying applications.  ? Worked closely with developers and managers to resolve the issues that rose during the deployments to different environments.    Environment: JAVA/J2EE, Tomcat Web server, JIRA, Websphere, UAT, ANT, Shell Scripts. Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Operating Systems: WindowsXP/NT/2000/2003/2008,UNIX, LINUX (RHEL),Ubuntu  Versioning Tools: CVS, Tortoise SVN, Clearcase, GIThub, Stash, TFS, Mercurial, Perforce and PVCS  Bug Tracking Tools: JIRA, Remedy, HP Quality Center, IBM ClearQuest, Mingle  Packaging Technologies: Wise package studio, Install shield Admin Studio, Windows Installer Editor, Conflict Manager,  Build Tools: Bamboo, Cruise Control, Hudson, Jenkins, ANT, MAVEN, MS Build and Team City  Languages/Scripting C, C++, C#, Perl scripting, Shell scripting, SQL, Java/J2EE, Python, Ruby, PHP, Bash  Web Technologies: Servlets, JDBC, JSP, HTML, JavaScript, XML,SSH, ASP, ASP.NET, HTML, JQuery, Web Services ,VBScript  Web servers: Web logic, Web Sphere, Apache Tomcat, JBOSS, SSIS, Iplanet, LightHttpd, Nginx  Configuration Management tools: Puppet, Chef, Ansible, Docker, Jenkins  RDBMS Oracle, SQL SERVER, MYSQL, DB2  Architectural Experience: Rack space, Open stack, EC2, Azure, GCE