LAMP Software Engineer LAMP Software Engineer Spanish Fork, UT Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience LAMP Software Engineer Cuckoo For Coupon Deals October 2009 to Present Ongoing maintenance, move entire database and website to new servers. Setup cloud server environment. Python Developer Perfect Pitch Technology - Lehi, UT August 2014 to May 2015 Developed and maintained internal applications and servers. Built a Rest API service for business apps to communicate with. Worked with websockets so our web portal can communicate with the server and the server can communicate with the web portal. Senior LAMP Software Engineer Doba - Orem, UT February 2013 to August 2014 Used PHP and Python to develop and manage code for the use of Doba internal applications. Also, maintained and rewrote Doba's website and member portal. Team Lead Ruby on Rails Software Engineer PMA Media Group March 2009 to February 2013 Engineered and designed back end applications to manage leads, schools, and affiliates. Was also required to program frontend websites. Used Ruby on Rails, Sinatra, Capistrano, Git, Ajax (jQuery, javascript), html, css,  Memcached, and the Beanstalk messaging queue to complete this project. I use the design methods imposed by the company, but also the standards of the Ruby language. Ruby is an Object Oriented language by nature so I use OOP everyday.  1 recommendation available upon request LAMP Web Developer/Programmer Entertainment Benefits Group April 2008 to March 2009 Developed frontend and backend applications for EBG's websites utilizing PHP 5, MySQL, CSS, Javascript, & HTML. This includes shopping carts, website layout, backend admin panels, etc. We've created our own Model-View-Controller (MVC) framework that allows us to use the same classes and methods for all of our websites. This was done using PHP 5 and MySQL. This allows us to build and develop a website in less time. I use Ubuntu 9.04 on my personal machine, and Cent OS on my servers. In becoming PHP 5 certified I learned a lot of the Zend Framework. Education Griffin Technical College 2008 to 2009 Skills Ruby on Rails, PHP, Zend Framework, MySQL 5+, Sinatra, Padrino, HTML5, CSS3, Responsive web design, JavaScript, jQuery, Active Record, Datamapper, Memcached, CentOS, Ubuntu, XML, LAMP, MVC, Git, SVN, Python & Django (10+ years), Python Certifications/Licenses Zend Framework Certification May 2008 to Present Additional Information More Websites:  ui.pmamediagroup.com  stage.anchorgrid.com/users/login  www.cuckooforcoupondeals.com  Created the Cucumber plugin for NetBeans 6.5 http://plugins.netbeans.org/PluginPortal/faces/PluginDetailPage.jsp?pluginid=17412