Angular, Full Stack Developer, Python/Django Developer Angular, Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span>, <span class="hl">Python</span>/Django <span class="hl">Developer</span> Angular, Full Stack Developer, Python/Django Developer Manalapan, NJ ? 5+ years of experience in design, implementation and testing of enterprise applications through the use of Python, Java, Django, Angular and Node JS  ? Proficiency with Python 3.6.2, HTML5, Angular 2+, JSON, Javascript, Bootstrap, Express.js and    Node.js  ? Experience creating web applications with the use of Django and Python  ? Experience in Object-Oriented Programming in Python and Java    ? Knowledge of SOAP, RESTful API's with Django, Node.js, Express.js. Used Node.js to create API's to use in conjunction with web applications created by Angular    ? Experience with databases such as MySQL, MongoDB, postgresql, Oracle    ? Created several front-end applications with the use of Angular, HTML5 and CSS. Used HTTP client service to retrieve data in JSON format from my databases  ? Experience with Git Software and used Jasmine or PyUnit ( A unit testing framework) for testing purposes  ? Use of NPM (Node Package Manager) to manage and install Node JS modules such as Express, mongoose and body-parser    ? Knowledge of Angular CLI and its use for simplifying the creation of projects, components and services.  ? Extensive experience with Python libraries like BeautifulSoup, Urllib and Tkinter    ? Knowledge of machine learning in Python and its use of libraries such as SciPy, NumPy, Pandas, sklearn    ? Knowledge of application deployment through the use of Amazon's AWS CodeDeploy that makes deploying applications on servers easy due to the ability to track.  ? Experience with SQLAlchemy's optional open source ORM (object-relational-mapper) package  ? Experience with web scraping using Python libraries like BeautifulSoup anr Urllib. Created an application to search for keywords on website pages and recommend related pages for users.    ? Good communication and organizational skills    ? Knowledge of web app creation using the web application framework, Flask and Java Work Experience Angular, Full Stack Developer, Python/Django Developer Wells Fargo Bank North Brunswick - North Brunswick, NJ August 2017 to May 2018 Description: Wells Fargo Bank is a full service bank and offers savings, checking and loan products to meet the financial needs of its customers. I was an Angular-2/Django developer and my responsibilities included work on credit management and Information Reporting. Credit management allows customers to make real time payments and to schedule payments for future dates. Accounts and subaccounts can be created through the use of Django forms. Information Reporting allows customers to search for transactions, share custom reports, define the period over which they would like their information. Customers can also query for their account information such as balances and transfer money between accounts.The project was created using Angular-2, a powerful open source web application program.    Responsibilities:  • Gathered requirements and features from client. implementation in Python for use in Django.  • Designed the application using TypeScript, Python and Angular    • Used GIT for version control and Jasmine for testing purposes    • Documented every step of the development process for future reference.    • Deployment of application through AWS    • Utilization of Django Forms to allow customers to submit payment data to the application or schedule future payments  • Wrote Python functions in Django views for making payments and editing reports.  • Wrote Python files on Django Models which are used to define all necessary variables such as payments, account balances, etc  • Wrote several apps for Credit Management Module in Python, each with their own models and views so that they can be used in Django.    • Performed queries to interact with MongoDb to store and retrieve data by using the Django's ODM (Object Document Mapping)    • Use of TypeScript, HTML, CSS for the design of interactive web pages.  • Use of Angular for the Information Reporting module to create components and add meaningful behavior to those components in sub-modules.  • Use of Angular 's HTTP Service to get data from the MongoDB database  • Node JS used to create API's that work with Angular    • Implementation of Bootstrap for various interfaces (checkboxes, buttons, dropdowns) and so that the application can be accessible for all devices.  • Use of rxjs Subject and Observer to communicate between independent components.  • Optimized the code of reusability using the decorators and injecting the services to access those in any components by using the property called providers in Angular Components.    Environment: Python 3, Angular 4.0, Django 1.10, MongoDB, HTML5, JavaScript, CSS3, Bootstrap 4, JQuery, GIT Python/Django Developer Intelechoice Communications - Manchester, NH November 2016 to July 2017 Description: Intelechoice Communications is a Telecom expert specializing in designing, selling and supporting a complete range of voice network management tools. As a Python Developer, I was involved in the development of an Information Management System to maintain records for potential employees applying at the company. This is a web based software platform for the human resource department to facilitate the recruitment of new employees. Users can filter job candidates based on a variety of attributes such as skills, background, etc. The application also allows for the scheduling of interviews and submission of resumes by applicants. Candidates have their own profiles which they can edit and see updates on their application process. There is also an applicant tracking system that displays which applicants are on which stage of the hiring process. I used Django, an open-source web framework in conjunction with Python to complete this project.    Responsibilities:    • Involved in analyzing the client's business in order to figure out the requirements for the system    • Developed dynamic web pages using Django Frameworks  • Implementation of code using Python which is also used for Django.    • Testing was performed using unittest, a module in Python    • I deployed my application using AWS Code Deploy    • Designed and developed the application using HTML and JavaScript    • Involved in the development of front end of the application with the use of JavaScript, HTML, CSS and JSON    • Managed datasets MongoDB, performed MongoDB database queries from python using    Pymongo  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views with the use of Python, in order to build an interactive web-based solution  • Generated Python Django Forms to allow job candidates to submit their resumes, documents, etc.    • Used Django-filter to allow users to sort job candidates based on skills, education, etc.    • Django Templates were created to combine Python's flexibility with static HTML in order to create a dynamic application    • Created REST API's using Django Rest Framework and accessed this APIs in the frontend.  • Significantly improved report generation efficiency by caching, reusing and improve the security level of data    • Skilled in using Python's collections module for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects  • Worked with GIT version control system for maintaining code versions  • Update, maintain and change the current web applications as per the project requirement    Environment: Python 3, Django 1.9, HTML5, CSS3, JSON, JavaScript, Restful Web services, Git, MongoDB Python Django Developer CDK Global, Illinois January 2016 to September 2016 Description: CDK Global is a leading provider of integrated dealership technologies. DMS is a car dealership management system developed as an internal system for associated users. I worked on an application that had portals for tracking inventory, current past and potential customers, sale records and dealership statistics. It also contains two separate portals "management" and "sales associate". Users are automatically routed to their respective portal based on login information. My role was a Python/Django Developer on the dev team and I mostly worked on the back end. I used Django, an open-source web framework in conjunction with Python to complete this project. Microsoft SQL was used as a database to store all records and statistics.    Responsibilities:  ? Designed and developed the application to be responsive using Bootstrap CSS framework implementing mobile first approach  ? Python and Django were used in conjunction to build the web application  ? Utilization of Django Forms to allow employees to log on to their portals and to add/remove/update inventory  ? Redesigned Microsoft SQL database utilities and tools for front-end development  ? Developed web applications in Django Framework's model view template (MVT) architecture.    ? Developed Django RESTful API for the backend logic    ? Assisted in designing and programming of databases with Python/Django Framework    ? Developed and designed a navigation interface using Python DRY (Don't Repeat Yourself) principles    ? Managed, developed and designed a dashboard control panel for Sales and Management using Microsoft SQL  ? Used Django to create an admin page that allows for the customization of inventory and customers  ? Extensively used Python modules such as requests, urllib, and urllib2 for web crawling.  ? Utilization of machine learning in Python to allow application to predict potential customers based on statistical information. I used SciPy/Scikit -learn for this aspect of the project.  ? Used Microsoft Visual Studio to write my Python Code.    ? Application was deployed with the use of AWS code deploy    Environment: Python 3, Django 1.7, HTML5, CSS3, JSON, JavaScript, Restful Web services, Git, MongoDB, Microsoft Visual Studio, Microsoft SQL, Bootstrap 3 Python Django Developer Pinnacle Foods Jersey City - Jersey City, NJ October 2014 to November 2015 Description: Pinnacle Foods in an American producer of food brands sold in the United States. I worked on helping the company keep track of their customers and products. As a Python/Django developer, the products module that I created displayed all the information about the products and allowed users to filter the information according to their needs. The orders module allows both customers and employees to create accounts in order to keep track of ongoing orders. The module also displays all the information from the database about the orders such as description and estimated times of arrival. Updates on delivery status is displayed on the user page and they can also be notified via email. Products can also be ordered by users for delivery by filling out online forms. It also allowed users to generate and download reports in various formats. On the dev team, I worked mostly on the back-end, using Python and MySQL as my database. Django an open source web framework helped me work on both the front end and back end of this project.    Responsibilities:    ? Gathered all the necessary requirements from the project such as product descriptions and order types.    ? Implementation of code through the use of Python and Django.  ? Tested project through the use of unittest, a module in Python    ? Created application using Python, Django Framework and MySQL Database    ? Used Python and Django to interface with the JavaScript UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  ? Utilized Django-filter in order to allow users of the module to view products based on desired attributes such as type, weight, etc  ? Developed frontend and backend modules with Python on the Django Web Framework  ? Developed a RESTful web services using Python and Django to retrieve and save data    ? Used interaction and data presentation pages developed with HTML, CSS and JavaScript    ? Created an admin page where product information can be added, modified or deleted.    ? Developed and tested features for UI dashboard using Python, HTML, Bootstrap and JavaScript    ? Used Postman to test CRUD ( Create, Read, Update, Delete) functions of API.    ? Managed relational database applications with UI designing services and Django Framework    ? Worked with other developers and project team during design and development phase to ensure built for testability.    ? Used GitHub version control system to collaborate and coordinated commits with team members.    Environment: Python 3, Django 1.6, MySQL, REST, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap 3, JavaScript, JQuery, JSON, Eclipse, GitHub, git Skills DJANGO (3 years), HTML5 (3 years), JAVASCRIPT (3 years), PYTHON (3 years), BOOTSTRAP (2 years) Additional Information Skills    Programming Languages: Python, Java, C, JavaScript, C++, SQL, Angular,  Node.js    Databases: mySQL, postgresql, Oracle and MongoDB    Web Developments: Bootstrap, HTML5, REST, SOAP    Frameworks: Django, Flask, Angular    Libraries: Python- BeautifulSoup, Numpy, Tkinter, urlib2,  pandas, Requests, Scrapy    Operating Systems: Windows, Linux    Tools: Eclipse, Visual Studio 2017, Postman, Git, GitHub,  Pycharm, Jupyter, Spyder, Apache, AWS (Cloud  Service)