Sr Software Sr Software Sr Software - Beacon Health Options Atlanta, GA ? Around 10+ years of experience as a Full Stack Developer for web applications in Angular (v4, v2, v1.5), Java, Python & PHP(WordPress) using HTML5, Bootstrap, CSS3, XTHML, XML, JavaScript, jQuery, JSON and AJAX meeting W3C standards  ? Experience in Analysis, Design, Development and Implementation in developing enterprise-level applications using N-tier Architecture involving in all stages of Software Development Life cycle (SDLC) and Agile methodologies  ? Capable of programming both client and server sides of large or small applications  ? Experience in using the JavaScript frameworks jQuery, Angular 4.0, AngularJS (Knowledge on the latest versions of Angular like v5.0 and v6.0)  ? Developed web applications in PHP, MySQL and XML  ? Developed mobile applications in Android(Java)  ? Expertise in client side designing and validations using HTML, HTML5 and JavaScript  ? Good understanding of Document Object Model (DOM) and DOM functions  ? Cloud hosted the websites  ? Experience on working with Sass, Bootstrap, CSS background, Layouts, Positioning, Text, Border and Padding, Pseudo Classes, Elements and CSS behaviors in CSS  ? Experience with creating and utilizing REST and SOAP Web Services  ? Used JIRA for bug tracking and GIT for version control  ? Sound understanding and good experience with Object programming concepts, Object Oriented JavaScript and Implementation  ? Experience working on both LINUX and Windows Environments  ? Skilled at analyzing and solving cross browser compatibility challenges and ability to maintain consistency and well commented HTML and CSS mark-up  ? Excellent working knowledge and thorough exposure on compatibility issues with different versions of browsers like Google Chrome, Mozilla Firefox, Safari and Internet Explorer  ? Excellent oral and written communication and interpersonal skills  ? Involved in understanding functional specifications and developing creative solutions to meet business requirements  ? Ability to learn and adapt quickly to the emerging new technologies    Technical Skills & Tools:    Programming languages: Angular (versions 5, 4, 2 & 1.5), Java, PHP, Python, Android, C#, ASP.Net C, C++  Web Technologies: HTML5, HTML/XHTML, XML, jQuery, JavaScript, ES6  CSS Frameworks: Twitter Bootstrap 3, CSS 3  Databases: AWS RDS, Microsoft SQL SERVER 2005, MySQL Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr Software Beacon Health Options - Atlanta, GA November 2017 to Present developer in Angular v4 / Java Spring Boot  Projects:    Georgia DBHDD / IDD: This project is to develop a system that automates process for IDD (Intellectual &  Developmental Disabilities) Providers in Georgia to review and process funds for people with disabilities. This system will be used by individuals who require services, agencies who can enter  applications on their behalf and the staff (about 36 roles) who process their applications  Role: Create frontend framework for the whole application using Angular 4 & Typescript. Consume Java SprintBoot services in the UI to maintain state while accessing information necessary for the logged in users. Deploy application on various servers like Apache for UI, Spring boot on JBOSS and publish them on WSO2 servers  Technologies: Angular 4, TypeScript, HTML, Bootstrap, CSS3, SASS, Java, JBOSS, WSO2 Sr Software developer in Angular / Java / Python Rational Enterprise - Albany, NY October 2015 to November 2017 Projects:    Rational Review: A hosted SAAS (software-as-a-service) that provides rich capabilities like document analytics, review, tag, code, track and automate the handling of all loading, culling, search, review, and production activities  Technologies: Angular 2.0, Java 1.8, Python, JQuery, ES6, Javascript, HTML5, Bootstrap, CSS3, Java, XML  Role: Using Agile development I was involved in requirement analysis, design, development and implementation for different modules of this application. Working on the frontend using Angular, writing RESTful services in Java and python (Gunicorn). Used AWS elastic search by coding in Java and python to create web services and integrate these services using Angular to provide an elaborate search and search results pages. Writing python services for data Analysis (using BigARTM, Word2Vec plugins) and generate various responsive graphs/charts (like interactive Probability charts and heatmaps) using Angular plugins(Highcharts) for analytics features like Predictive coding, Near Duplicate identification, Topic Modelling and email threading. Configured, deployed and hosted the site using Jenkins in AWS and Google Cloud environments. Sr Software developer in AngularJs & PHP The Hub Agency December 2011 to September 2015 Projects:    Scottish Clinics: It's a responsive web application to compare various clinics in Scotland. Clinics can register in the portal and enter various treatments information and prices. The end users can extensively search based on treatments and clinics and can interact with hospitals directly.  Technologies: AngularJs 1.4, HTML5, Bootstrap, CSS3, JQuery/Javascript, PHP, MySQL  Duration: 8 months  Role: Developed a responsive web application in AngularJs, Javascript and JQuery based on the design provided. Analyzed and designed database using MySQL. Created web services using PHP that can interact with AngularJs. Perform AJAX calls to load search results dynamically. Created a role based user friendly content management system for the admins and clinics to enter and monitor profiles and enquiries. Deployed and hosted the website in Hostxnow shared hosting.    Chivas Brothers' History: It's a responsive website for Chivas Brothers (Pernod Ricard) to view their history as a timeline and a family-tree.  Technologies: PHP, HTML5, Bootstrap, CSS3, JQuery/Javascript, MySQL  Duration: 2 months  Role: Created two WordPress websites based on the design provided. Using PHP, JQuery and Ajax, I created responsive portals in the form of family-tree and timeline for viewers to know the history of the Chivas Brothers (AKA Pernod Ricard) and various brands it acquired and produced since its inception. Deployed and hosted the site in GoDaddy.    SuperZoo: It's a price comparison website to compare products from various websites like amazon, ASDA, Boots, and many more by making use of affiliate program and Amazon API.  Technologies: PHP, HTML5, Bootstrap, CSS3, JQuery, MySQL, XML Web services, JavaScript  Duration: 14 months  Role: Created website using PHP and HTML5 to show price comparison of various products from multiple online retailers. Integrated data feeds in PHP from Amazon API and affiliate window based on unique product Identification standards like ISBN, SKU, UPC to group and compare product prices from different sites. Tracking user clicks and website transfers is monitored using JavaScript. Designed the database in MySQL.    Nuffield Health / Elanic Clinics: Over 25 individual WordPress responsive websites for Nuffield Health and Elanic Clinics, Glasgow for: cosmetic surgery, weight-loss, fertility problems, sexual problems, eye-care, skin-care, heart problems, breast-care, vein-care, hip and knee care, cardiology, oncology, ENT, rheumatology, hernia problems etc.  Technologies: WordPress, PHP, HTML5, Bootstrap, CSS3, JQuery/Javascript, MySQL  Duration: Varies between 3 weeks to 1.5 months for each portal  Role: Create responsive WordPress websites based on design provided, test them for errors & host them.    PPI sites & Others: About 30 Payment Protection Insurance and 2 building construction websites created using PHP, WordPress and HTML.    Timesales: It's a secure web portal for The Hub Agency to maintain, update, email and track data feed from various websites. Enquiries can also be downloaded in various formats like excel, pdf.  Technologies: PHP, HTML5, Bootstrap, CSS3, JQuery/Javascript, MySQL, XML  Duration: 1 month  Role: Design a simple portal in PHP, MySQL, JavaScript and HTML for The Hub Agency so they can track enquiries from PPI sites and the other health portals. Software Developer in Android Appour Technologies - Hyderabad, Telangana April 2010 to November 2011 Projects:  MedPGMasters: It's a web and mobile application questionnaire for students studying medicine to take exams so they can get into PG. Once the tests are taken, it provides answers with detailed explanation with diagrams wherever necessary.  Technologies: Android, Java, PHP, HTML, CSS, JQuery/Javascript, MySQL, XML  Duration: 10 months  Role: Designed and developed database architecture using MySQL. Developed RESTful web services using PHP & MySQL. Customized Wordpress to show the static content of the website. Developed dynamic pages PHP, HTML, JQuery for the questionnaire part of the website using the web services. Built separate secure content management systems using PHP to maintain student and questionnaire modules. Using ADT for Eclipse, I designed and developed an Android application making use of the PHP web services. Hosted the website in GoDaddy; Signed and deployed the app in Google play store.    Alphakids: It is a game for toddlers to learn English alphabets and words. It contains interactive games like letter identification, find the missing letter, jumbled letters for three and four lettered words  Technologies: Android, Java, XML  Duration: 3 months  Role: Making use of 5 views I created a simple game for toddlers using Java in Eclipse Indigo using ADT    PharmaDroid: It is an application that sets reminders to take medicines and to keep track of the inventory of the medicines  Technologies: Android, Java, XML  Duration: 4 months  Role: Created an app using Java in Eclipse Indigo using ADT. It uses activities, views, push notifications to get reminders, browser integration to get medicine information and SQlite to store user data.    Picalo: It is a photo and album sharing application on Facebook. It is designed to help users share their photos with new and existing friends  Technologies: PHP, JavaScript, FBML(XML), MySQL  Duration: 2 months  Role: Created a facebook application that uses FBML using Oauth authorization for sharing images into albums between user groups Software Developer in C# .NET Kamonics Business Services - Hyderabad, Telangana November 2007 to April 2010 Projects:  Fantasticalgarve.com: It is a holiday portal for Algarve and Madeira. Features include hotel reservation, weather forecast, vacation rentals, calendar management, etc. (Duration: 6 months)    Lavintees.com: It is an E-commerce portal with features such as product catalogue, inventory management, shopping cart, payment processing with PayPal/google checkout, order processing, account management, etc. (Duration: 5 months)    Srijan Pharmaceuticals: It is a portal for Srijan that provides facility to sell chemicals and drugs to other pharmaceutical manufacturing companies. Features include product catalogue, price & quantity chart, ticker, user management, transaction history, pending payments, coupons management (Duration: 7 months)    GetFilmi: It is a social utility website that connects aspirants to people in the entertainment industry. Features include sharing and review of movies/ photos/audio-clippings (Duration: 7 months)    Ebuyersweb.com: It is an E-commerce portal with features such as product catalogue, shopping cart, order processing and account management, etc. (Duration: 7 months)  Report-card: It is online portal for educational institutions. Features: Students/teachers accounts, time table management, report cards, etc. (Duration: 5 months)    Technologies: C#, MS SQL Server 2005, ASP.NET, XML, JavaScript, .NET 3.5 / 2.0 Education Bachelors of Technology in Computer Science Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University Hyderabad - Hyderabad, Telangana Skills .NET (2 years), AWS (2 years), ANDROID (1 year), ECLIPSE (1 year), DOS (Less than 1 year) Additional Information Software Tools: AWS, WordPress  IDE: VS Code, Eclipse Mars with Maven, Android Studio, Visual Studio 2010  Agile Tools: JIRA  Operating Platforms: LINUX, Android, Windows, DOS  Miscellaneous: MS-office