Lead Python Developer/AWS Engineer Lead <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span>/AWS Engineer Lead - Capital One Chicago, IL ? AWS Certified Developer working currently in Python-Spark Automation project on Unix/Linux/Apache and Cloud platform as Amazon Web Service.  ? Certified Drupal 8 IT professional with 10+ years of extensive experience as a PHP Web Application Developer in System Analysis, Design, Development and Implementation of various client/server, Web-based applications.  ? Certification and knowledge on AWS (Amazon Web Services) Cloud platform as Developer.  ? Experience of development using various IDEs like PyCharm( Python), Atom, Visual Studio.  ? Hands on experience in use of various Python libraries in web development like NumPy, SciPy, Pandas, PySpark, OpenPyxl,Boto3,Requests Unit test.  ? Having strong experience in developing and migrating various PHP framework Open Source and like WordPress and Drupal.Expert in CMS concepts ? Experience in IDEs like Datastage ,Adobe Dreamweaver,Postman, PyCharm, and Notepad++.  ? Having hands on experience on Security, performance and integration of modules ? Experience in Web development (especially in Developer Application Program Interface (API) ? Experience in Agile Iterative model, Waterfall. Preference for Agile SCRUM environment.  ? Domains Worked: BFSI (Banking, Finance, Security, Insurance) and Retail.  ? Solid experience in understanding of responsive websites using Drupal, HTML5/CSS, and JavaScript ? Currently working in Chicago Rolling Meadows , IL Work Experience Lead Python Developer/AWS Engineer Capital One - Chicago, IL January 2018 to Present Project: Card Partnership  Description: Capital One Financial Corporation is a bank holding company specializing in credit cards, auto loans, banking and savings accounts headquartered in Capital One Tower in McLean, Virginia. Capital One is ranked 10th on the list of largest banks in the United States by assets. The bank has 755 branches including 30 café style locations and 2,000 ATMs. It is ranked 101st on the Fortune 500, and conducts business in the United States, Canada, and the United Kingdom. The company helped pioneer the mass marketing of credit cards in the 1990s. In 2016, it was the 5th largest credit card issuer by purchase volume. This project aims at processing of Card related data on Cloud System and generate reports based on usage and other criteria's.  Responsibility & Contribution: ? Data Processing and Data analytics using Python and Shell Scripting ? Used Numpy and SciPy for Numerical analysis on Credit Card Customer Data ? Used PyUnit library to perform unit testing on Python ? Used OpenPyxl for reading of Excel or CSV format data to import into S3 bucket using Python ? Create Python wrappers for automation using AWS cloud S3 buckets ? AWS S3 Encryption and Tokenization Detokenization buckets and Shell scripting to generate reports ? Turing Encryption on Security of Data at Rest and Data in Transport ? Decryption /Encryption of Tokens at end points ? Database Redshift and SnowFlake with S3 Integration ? Generate and implement Shell Script on UNIX systems by following Agile methodology.  ? Used JIRA(Agile) tool for tracking the project status.  ? Test existing code by Unit testing and System Prod testing ? Implemented REST API in Python and Shell Scripting to register Metadata ? Used SWAGGER API's to mask and unmask the data as well as Bulk uploads to Metadata tool ? Using GITHUB for version control and to release the code to Production ? Working on Automation of manual Registration process for all the files using Python /Spark and Amazon Redshift as database ? In depth experience building data engineering or data science platforms using of the following technologies: Hadoop, Presto, Apache Arrow, Apache, Jupyter Notebooks    Environment: Python, Unix shell scripting, Amazon Web service (AWS),Spark, LAMP,GITHUB, PostgreSQL, Redshift DB, Teradata, PyCharm, Atom, GIT Bootstrap, Node JS , JavaScript Sr. PHP/Drupal Developer IHCS - Missouri October 2016 to December 2017 Project: EMPYAM  Description: This project is internal project of Wipro based on Web development and specific tools. Some of the application are in PHP/ Python which generates data and forms based on Data Analytics. It's based mainly on employee performance and contribution towards organization.  Responsibility & Contribution: ? Quickly, diagnosed and helped fix memory consumption problem for corporate site.  ? Coding modules sometimes from scratch and Testing using Test Plans ? Used different python libraries like Scikit-learn, NumPy, Pandas to create models to predict the likelihood of a potential ratings of employee based of employment history, appraisal ratings, internal ratings, Assessment reports.  ? Good experience in various source code control tools like Git ? Developing Web interface using Themes and Customized Modules and Python Libraries ? Using GIT to maintain the version of the files used in the project including branching and tagging ? Developing Admin Panels for several websites with several Drupal modules as per client queries from MySQL database ? Used JIRA(Agile) tool for tracking the project status.  ? Worked on Apache Server, Linux ? Used AWS cloud for the uploads of the reports to S3 bucket , working on IBM Datastage Modules on Cloud ? Developed Automated Python Unit testing of Symphony framewok used internally ? Added optional SNS e-mail notifications when users are approved, blocked, or deleted    Environment: Python, AWS, DataStage XML, PHP and frameworks like Drupal, Bootstrap V2.3. , NumPy, Pandas Sr. Developer Programmer Analyst Nationwide Insurance - Columbus, OH December 2013 to October 2016 Project: Commercial PSG  Description: This project is related to enhancement of the existing Commercial systems and also to maintain the property system policies by renewing, underwriting, cancelling the policies. Some of the applications are in PHP and VBA which generates reports based on Data collection through various systems.  Responsibility & Contribution: ? Parsed XML using the existing Drupal functionality ? Minimized the cost (by 80%) of data load by using different database tools. Reduced Manual workload ? Introduced & designed a process to purge the data which is more than 24 months old to save cost of loads in database Agile & Lean model followed.  ? Participated Actively in Analyzing the Risk and Estimation of the project ? Added support for clean URLs in PHP.  ? Coding modules sometimes from Scratch for Drupal 7 (Customized module) ? Fixing Defects in PHP code and modules, Resolving Incidents from P0 (high Priority) to P4 (low priority)    Environment: Drupal 7 using Bootstrap, VBA (VB code), Apache, SOAP UI, XML Senior Developer/PHP MySQL Developer US BANK - Bengaluru, Karnataka August 2013 to December 2013 Project: USB SNOWMAN  Description: This project aims at changing the web application tool that handles Credit Card features. Naming & formatting conventions for account numbers, card types, association, BINS, etc, as well as coding & design standards.  Responsibility & Contribution: ? Was part of Solution Design team for various forms and modules ? Performance improvements: improved comment caching, faster SQL queries, etc.  ? Designed, coded, architected and tested various themes, modules and processes to extend Drupal to meet the client's needs.  ? Added language selectors to most configuration options (views, menus, etc.) ? Developed Risk Analysis Transition matrix for estimation purpose ? Developed PHP Unit test cases for unit testing the applications ? Created custom Drupal modules using PHP.  Environment: Web applications /PHP Drupal / SOAPUI, MYSQL, XAMPP Senior Developer/ PHP MySQL Developer TJX Retail - Bengaluru, Karnataka January 2013 to August 2013 Project: RPAS Legacy  Description: This project aims at changing the legacy ASP systems to PHP systems application. It's an ASP.Net to PHP Migration project along with enhancement to the existing system.  Responsibility & Contribution: ? Created modules based on existing architecture in Drupal structure ? Implemented drag-and-drop positioning for blocks, menu items, taxonomy, vocabularies and terms, forums, profile fields, and input format filters ? Improved handling of teasers in posts in Drupal.  ? Check for clean URL support automatically with JavaScript.  ? Introduced new concepts by remodeling the existing modules ? Enhanced the system by rewriting the SQL's and creating new database tables ? Made the help text area a full featured region with blocks.  Environment: PHP Drupal 7 & ASP , MYSQL, Apache, CSS/HTML , LAMP Developer /Support Analyst Friends Life - UK November 2009 to December 2012 Project: Annuity and Life Insurance  Description: The application allows the business to process the charging of customer accounts. The system has online processing. Incidents/Problem logs are raised for severity issues on websites.  Responsibility & Contribution: ? Internal modules on PHP for admin logins and users logins ? Dynamically check password strength and confirmation.  ? Added block-level caching, improving performance for both authenticated and anonymous users.  ? Fixes faulty and chopped off HTML in postings.  ? Created Models and Views based on the requirements in PHP modules ? Handled Several critical incidents related to several systems for eg TAX - P45 issue Enhanced PATSY system by reducing the loops and modifying /tuning the MySQL queries/Joins  Environment: PHP, MySQL, Apache, LAMP, Dreamweaver, HTML/ CSS Developer/Solution Designer / PHP MySQL Developer WebPatchers Software Solutions - Amritsar, Punjab November 2008 to November 2009 Project: B2B and Movies web development  Description: This project is development project. The objective of this project is to provide latest information of movies and cricket. It includes videos, API's (Google and Flickr), latest interviews, movie and cricket reviews, Actors/Players biography, Latest news, Live scores, Tournaments.  Responsibility & Contribution: ? Introduced API concepts in designs and Coding ? New hook_ that can be implemented by any module to route log messages to various destinations ? Experienced in developing front-ends in PHP, HTML, XHTML, CSS, and JavaScript for both Internet and Intranet website.  ? Enhanced existing system by optimizing SQL ? Used Dreamweaver for coding the application ? Added optional e-mail notifications when users are approved, blocked, or deleted ? Created PHP scripts to find the zip code based on IP address ? Route page requests to code based on URLs using Drupal ? Created forms using Form Builder Drupal ? Used the RSS feeds to display current news ? Cross browser platform compatibility to run the application on all browsers ? Created code on LAMP (Linux, Apache,MySQL and PHP) and XAMPP(for Windows)  Environment: PHP, MySQL, Drupal 6 JavaScript, Ajax, HTML/CSS, Dreamweaver, HTML Education Master of Computer Application in Computer Application Guru Nanak Dev University Bachelor of Computer Application in Computer Application Guru Nanak Dev University Skills Apache (10+ years), AWS (2 years), CSS (4 years), Database (5 years), Datastage (1 year), Dreamweaver (4 years), GIT (2 years), HTML (4 years), LAMP (5 years), LAMP Stack (5 years), Linux (2 years), MySQL (6 years), PHP (9 years), Python (2 years), Scripting (1 year), Shell Scripting (1 year), SQL (1 year), Teradata (1 year), UNIX (1 year), XML (4 years) Links http://Drupal.Expert