Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - DealerTrack Work Experience Python Developer DealerTrack - New Hyde Park, NY June 2018 to Present Description: DealerTrack is a child company of Cox Automotive. It is the leading provider of digital solutions to the automotive retail industry. Our team is responsible for Desking, the starting point of car buying process where dealer and  customer go for different scenarios and payments and decides on what is best for them. As a team member I'm responsible to create APIs that frontend can consume, improve existing code, code reviews, fix defects and write test cases to check  functionality of the code. As a team member I also do peer programming with my colleagues to bounce back ideas to  improve the code and help fixing the defects effectively.  Responsibilities:  ? Followed Agile methodologies for project delivery and involved in gathering Requirements, Analysis, Design,  Implementation, Testing and Maintenance of the project.  ? Application uses Django Web Framework and REST framework to make it extensible and flexible.  ? Used Oracle as database for the application python as backend and React for frontend.  ? Used GIT as version control tool to maintain the code.  ? Used Splunk to know search the error logs and other information logs.  ? Used SQL Alchemy as object relational mapper to interact with the database  ? Building Models, views, Serializers, Mappers, functions, reusable code and libraries required for the application.  ? Building all Database Mapping classes using Django Generic, Class and functioned based methods.  ? Used python debugger PDB to set break points and debug the code.  ? Used Postman to test responses of the APIs created using rest frame work.  ? Used PyUnit, Python unit test framework, for testing the functionality of the application and mock python library  to mock the functions and APIs for testing the functionality.  Environment: Python 3.6, Django, Oracle, SQL Developer, Docker, SQL Alchemy, PyUnit, Pycharm, GIT, Agile, Rally, Python Developer Summitworks Technologies, Inc - South Plainfield, NJ January 2018 to May 2018 Description: Used Python and python web frameworks to work on creating an application for an auto insurance client.  This application helps the client to sell auto insurances and provide services for their customers.  Responsibilities:  ? Involved in gathering Requirements, Analysis, Design, Implementation, Testing and Maintenance and followed  agile methodologies for project delivery.  ? Designed a web application using Python on Django Web Framework pattern to make it extensible and flexible.  ? Used MySQL database as backend for the application.  ? Used the Model Template View (MTV) framework to build modular and maintainable applications.  ? Building Models, views, templates, forms, reusable code and libraries required for the application.  ? Building all Database Mapping classes using Django Generic, Class and functioned based methods.  ? Worked on the login and sign up process using the Authentication and Session module available in Django  ? Implemented database access using Django ORM and created views to interact with the database and built REST  APIs using Django Rest Framework.  ? Worked on frontend using AngularJS framework and created efficient user Interaction screens using HTML5, CSS3,  Bootstrap  ? Deploying the application using Apache and mod_wsgi modules.  ? Used PyUnit, Python unit test framework, for testing the functionality of the application and used jasmine and karma for testing the functionality of the AngularJS framework.  Environment: Python 3.6, Django, Mysql, PyUnit, Pycharm, Mysql Workbench, Pycharm, Jasmine, karma, Apache,  Html5, CSS3, Github, AngularJS Florida State Libraries July 2017 to January 2018 Project: Maintaining Florida Library Data  ? Storing CSV file containing information about the books in Florida State Libraries into MySQL database  ? Python is used to store the data in CSV file into the MySQL Database  ? Data from the Database is retrieved as per the requirement    Environment: Python 3.6, Oracle, SQL Developer, Pycharm, GIT Education Master of Science in COMPUTER SCIENCE FLORIDA STATE UNIVERSITY - Tallahassee, FL August 2015 to May 2017 Bachelor of Engineering in COMPUTER SCIENCE GITAM UNIVERSITY - Visakhapatnam, Andhra Pradesh May 2015 Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/mounika-mudireddy/ Additional Information SKILLS & INTERESTS:  Programming Languages Python, Java    Databases Sqlite, MySql, Oracle 10g, Mongodb    Frameworks Django, Flask, AngularJS, Angular-2    Tools Pycharm, Spyder, Jupyter Notebook, Eclipse, Visual Studio Code, Postman, JIRA,  Git    Web Development HTML, CSS, jQuery, JavaScript    Servers Apache, Tomcat, Node JS, Express JS    Web services Rest web services, Soap web services    Python Libraries Pandas, Numpy, Scipy, Matplotlib, Beautiful Soup, pymysql, pymongo, Mock