Senior back-end developer Senior back-end <span class="hl">developer</span> Senior back-end developer - Axle Informatics Fairfax, VA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior back-end developer Axle Informatics July 2018 to Present Working on CURE project. Continued development of an existing Django API used by an Ionic  front-end. Dockerized the application to facilitate deployment and local development for front- end devs. Implemented the necessary model changes with data migrations.  • Development was done in Agile way, used Jira/Github to manage issues. Tools used were  Django, Django REST framework, Celery, Redis, PostgreSQL Senior developer Vied Inc January 2018 to July 2018 Designed and developed a demo desktop app in support for a DoD project bid. The product  allowed customer to connect a number of legacy systems and a few of external services together  which led to a simpler and clearer workflow. Technically the project was done in Python and PySide/Qt4. The tool's functionality included processing and editing of document and audio  files of different formats as well as reporting.    • Participated in development of the Image Annotator tool for EPR Inc a global provider of personel and services to the energy industry. EPR Inc agents do mandatory checks of energy  facilities (for ex. power plants) and they needed an easy way to annotate and share pictures of found problems within the organization. The Image Annotator tool allowed EPR agents to mark  found defects and problems on the picture, the annotations can be of different geometrical  shape, can be scaled, rotated and moved on the images; text can be added to further explain the findings. Image then can be saved with the added annotations and shared between EPR agents through email or internal chat system. The work was done using JS/Canvas, HTML and CSS. Senior Python Developer CFPB/Forum One September 2013 to January 2017 Supported www.consumerfnance.gov as part of a dedicated team and worked on several of internal and public facing projects:  1. Owning-a-Home tool (https://www.consumerfinance.gov/owning-a-home/explore-rates/ and https://www.consumerfinance.gov/owning-a-home/) - at the time of active development the  most accessed part of the site and probably still is. My responsibility were design and development of the API for the front-end developed in ReactJS, in addition to that a data  workflow was developed as new data is provided nightly by a third party financial  institution. AWS S3 was used to move that data between several CFPB internal networks that  are not connected between themselves but have infrastructure or means to execute different  steps of the workflow. Task were automated by Jenkins and stored as Jenkins as code scripts.  2. Find a housing counselor tool (https://www.consumerfinance.gov/find-a-housing-counselor/)  provides a list of 10 closest HUD-approved counselors based on the zip code. This tool is  equally useful to the general public and financial institutions. A number of geocoding APIs  were considered initially, Google Geocoding API is currently used. Requests to the API are  being cached in order to minimize costs and to avoid the API number of request limits.  3. AskCFPB - the FAQ part of the CFPB site, English and Spanish versions of content needed  to be indexed and be searchable. A number of Solr indexing issues were successfully fixed  that were usually caused by special characters in the Spanish language.  4. As part of the DevOps team worked with AWS, Docker, ELK stack during the preparation of moving CFPB IT infrastructure to AWS.    • Development was done in Agile way, used Jira/Github to manage issues. Tools generally used  were Django, Django REST framework, boto3, ReactJS, Travis CI, Solr Senior Drupal Developer USDA/Forum One January 2013 to September 2013 Worked on the USDA FAS site (https://www.fas.usda.gov/) - the central point that aggregates  information, documents, rules, programs, events and news about foreign agriculture trade. The  site was designed and developed from the ground up. Thorough pre-development analysis and weekly meetings with the all main stakeholders allowed this product to be flexible, useful to the  customer and executed in a timely manner.    • Another USDA project was a tool that visualizes and teaches about USDA effort to provide  local "green" lunches at schools. Drupal7 was used as back-end to manage and admin content and provide an API for front-end which was implemented in AngularJS.    • Technologies and tools used were Drupal 7, AngularJS, workbench, views, context, rules,  panels, and media modules Senior Software Engineer REI Systems August 2010 to January 2013 As part of a bigger team working on SBA.gov fixed issues and added functionality to https://www.sba.gov/tools/events. This busy tools presented a few of serious problems most of  which caused by the sheer amount of events (most of which were recurring) and their internal  presentation. General D7 API and Node API were used to the maximum extent in order to speed  up page rendering and minimize DB requirements for storage of the said events.    • In SBIR.gov led a team of two back-end and a front-end developers. This site was designed and developed from the ground up. It aggregated information about the US government awards to  small businesses, past, current and future. The tool is used by general public, small businesses and government officials. A number of developed reports and checks are used by government  agents to ensure awarded institutions are eligible for the awards and have provided all due  documentation. In addition to that the site generated a mandatory yearly report for the US  Congress.    • Contributed to SBA Nominations portal, both public and private servers. Was responsible for customizing forms and all the JS issues.    • Contributed to small business dashboard site by fixing JS and 508 compliance issues.    • Technologies and tools used were Drupal 6,7, PHP, jQuery, Solr, MySQL, PostgreSQL,  workflow, og, views, fusion charts, context, rules, iText, and media modules, Java, SOAP,  Apache Tomcat Programmer Cello Software November 2009 to August 2010 Worked on the product that allowed to address all three big problems faced by restaurant  businesses: table/venue reservations, products' warehousing, and server/waiter/chef and shifts/schedule management. The tool was meant to solve the problems at 2941.com with the  intention of providing similar service to other restaurant businesses afterwards. My main  responsibilities were to work on a number of internal classes and the functionality, develope  unit tests, write DB stored procedures. The product was using a locally developed versioning  DB system.  • Used Perl, Dojo, Canvas, Test::More, Test::Harness, PostgreSQL Programmer SEC/ISN November 2008 to November 2009 Developed the SAL utility, which was used to check, process and load/save ALL documents  that S.E.C. is receiving from financial institutions and agents. It accounted to just shy of 500  men hours a day and was run daily by the S.E.C workforce and its contractors.    • Developed utilities for data protection    • Used JS, MySQL, Perl, Perl/Tk, OLE, Win32API Programmer Johns Hopkins University June 2008 to November 2009 • Migrated legacy data to Drupal CMS    • Used PHP, Drupal 6, MySQL Software engineer eStara/ATG Inc July 2007 to June 2008 Contributed to Click2Call and Click2Chat company products. Click2Call and Click2Chat were  very advanced tools in the early AJAX era and so lots of busy sites like cars.com were using  them. Along with these tools eStara customers were given the possibility to track the utility of different advertisement means. Different phone numbers were advertised on TV, internet and  newspapers and eStara would collect the statistics and route them to the phone number of the customer.    • WinCare agent console with single sign-on capability is another exceptional tool that Stara  provided to its customers. It allowed big shop sites' agents to assist customers that requested  their help in a better and faster manner. Through the console the agent could see what the customer is currently seeing, what pages she visited before she requested help; also agent had the possibility to highlight parts of the customer page, scroll up and down or even direct  customer browser to a different page.    • Used PHP, JpGraph, MySQL, HTML, JavaScript, wxWidgets Programmer PingTone Communications May 2006 to July 2007 • Supported and developed the company's website    • Oversaw automatic report emailing to the customers    • Customized Sugar CRM for the company needs    • Used PHP, Perl, Python, MySQL, PostgreSQL, Sybase, SOAP, AJAX, HTML, CSS, JS Scanning manager Landon IP Inc May 2005 to May 2005 - May 2005    • Was responsible for support and development of the company's website    • Managed digital database of all the documents company worked with    • Used Alchemy db, Adobe suite of tools, HTML, JS, CSS Education Technical University of Moldova November 2012 Skills PHP (5 years), PYTHON (5 years), Solr (5 years), MYSQL (5 years), SOLR (5 years) Links https://github.com/fna Additional Information • Technical skills    • Python, Django, Django Rest Framework, Celery  • JS, HTML5, CSS3, AngularJs,  • Also AWS, Docker, Sqlite, MySQL, PostgreSQL, MongoDB, ElasticSearch, Solr, Go, Vuejs,  C/C++, Java, PHP, Symfony2, Drupal7, Perl5, Dancer2, Perl/Tk, PySide/Qt4