Senior Developer Senior <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Developer - RR Donnelley Aurora, IL Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Developer RR Donnelley March 2016 to Present Quantum Application    This is a billing application which is used for calculating the costs associated with the orders for a given customer including calculating the postage. This is a Web application created in MVC 5, Entity Framework 5 developed using Test Driven Development methodologies    ? Worked with guiding and leading a team of 5 developers on the Postage Calculation for these orders based on the different input parameters and the categories. The Postage Engine is a WCF which outputs a postage results based on different criteria    ? Worked with business in understanding the requirements of the project, and the complex billing model and also how the different postage calculations work - Worked with them on a day to day basis for the same.    Pricing Project Enhancements  • Lead the pricing application team - Worked with business to get a better understanding of all their pricing applications to understand and implement better solutions.    • Improving performance of the existing rating system- The rating service is a WCF service with Entity Framework 5. Implemented parallelism and batching in the service as necessary to improve performance. Application Developer AECOM August 2010 to Present Some Projects Have Occurred Simultaneously)    • Metropolitan Airports Commission, Minneapolis  ? Mobile Application: Developed the Fire Pre-plan mobile application for Minneapolis Airport. This is an ARCGIS mobile application based on ARCGIS Mobile 10 and C#, windows application based on .NET framework 3.5. Developed primary tools such as buffer, search and measure tools and dynamic TOC. The application pulls data from a mobile cache. Replicated the ArcGIS Server Service to a mobile cache and created a windows service to update cache on a daily basis.    ? Web Application: Involved in database migration from Oracle to MS SQL Server. Worked on updating the webservices to suit the migration.    • Milwaukee International Airport  ? Developed a C#, MVC Reporting application based on .Net Framework 4 which generates reports by inserting the user entered parameters and populating the correct template. The front end was developed in HTML5 with Razor syntax with entity framework model for pulling data for the application.  ? Developed a windows service application (based on .NET framework 3.5 and in C#) which checks for weather updates on a minute by minute basis and updates the database (MS SQL server 2008). The windows service application also creates service request for the weather updates as required in the Cityworks application.  ? Created database triggers to automatically send emails to the required group when a work order status gets updated in the Cityworks application. This was done in MS Sql server 2008 database environment.  ? Worked on implementing enhancements to the MKE application. Developed tools such as enhanced Buffer tool, Export tool and Identify tool. This application was developed using Flex in Flash Builder 4.5 environment.  ? Worked on implementing Part 139 Inspection reports using Crystal reports. This report displays Open and Closed Work Orders under varied categories for different time shifts.    • Orlando International Airport -  ? Created and configured the Oracle Database and ArcSDE on a Linux Environment.  ? Created the geodatabase for this project in Oracle.  ? Created web services in ASP.NET.  ? Implemented the Measure tool for the GIS application. The tool was developed using Flex in Flash Builder 4.5 environment. The user will be able to use the tool to measure a drawn polygon, polyline and coordinates of point on the GIS application. The tool allows the user to measure in different units such as square feet, meter and other units as required.  ? Implemented the Identify tool for the GIS application. The tool was developed using Flex in Flash Builder 4.5 environment. The user will be able to identify features on the GIS application by drawing on the required area to be identified. The user is allowed to identify features using point, polyline and polygon tool.  ? Implemented the Propworks tool for the GIS application. This tool was developed in Flex (Flash Builder 4.5 environment). The user is allowed to perform the following three functionalities using the Propworks tool:  * Map Query - Allows the user to query against the Propwork layers when the user draws a point, polyline or polygon on the GIS application  * Attributes Based Search - Allows the user to query against selected Propwork layers based on the user selected attributes.  * Edit Attributes - This allows the user to edit attributes of a feature once the user performs a query against the Propworks layer and the resulting attributes are displayed to the user  ? Implemented the ECM Search Tool for the GIS application. This tool allows the user to search for Projects / Location information on any drawn polygon area on the map and also allows the user to query for documents on the resulting Project/location search results. This project was developed in Flex with webservices written in ASP.NET.    • Denver International Airport, Colorado  ? Implemented the buffer tool in MVVM model for the GIS application. This tool was a part of a Silverlight application and was developed in XAML and C# in Visual Studio 2010 environment.  ? Migrated the application from ArcGIS 10.0 Configuration to 10.1 Configuration in development and test servers.    • Rico  ? Migrated the application from Flex API 2.5 to Flex API 4.5.1.  ? Created web services in ASP.NET.  ? Implemented the Search, Identify, query task , Zoom to Location , Zoom to Site functionalities which allow the user to search for location and details on the Rico location, zoom to location based on the user entered Lat Long values, identify feature details when the user clicks on the map and query samples based on the user entered specifications.    • Vancouver International Airport, Canada  ? Implemented the Propworks tool for this application. This tool was developed in Flex (Flash Builder 4.5 environment). The user is allowed to perform the following three functionalities using the Propworks tool:  * Map Query - Allows the user to query against the Propwork layers when the user draws a point, polyline or polygon on the GIS application.  * Attributes Based Search - Allows the user to query against selected Propwork layers based on the user selected attributes.    • Los Angeles International Airport, Los Angeles, California - The application is based on .NET and ArcGIS 9.3 Server. Created complex crystal reports for Quarterly and Annual reports using ORACLE Sql.    • Wichita Mid-Continent Airport, Wichita, Kansas - Worked on developing an additional functionality for contract adjustment. This project was based on .NET framework 3.5 and developed in C#. Developer 2 RR Donnelley June 2014 to March 2016 Developer and Technology Assistant March 2009 to August 2010 • Design and develop the Center's Website.  • Maintaining Virtual Information Management of Education Outcomes (VIMEO) software. Worked on database management, reports development and creating assessments using VIMEO.  • Provide technical and desktop support involving hardware and software related issues. Teaching Assistant for Database, Python and Java courses Department of Computer Science January 2009 to May 2010 • Assisting Professors in class by helping students in lab and by also taking lectures during the Professor's absence.  • Tutoring students outside class by helping them understand topics related to their courses.  • Grading assignments and exams of students. Senior Instructional Designer SIFY Pvt Ltd - Chennai, Tamil Nadu June 2005 to February 2007 * Involved in technical writing and content management of online applications.  * Worked with content review team and trained the team members on developing e-learning portals.    Projects  • Designed and developed an online training portal of Laboratory Information Management Systems (LIMS) for end users of Pfizer incorporated.  • Designed and reviewed a training application for end users of BASF incorporated.  • Developed an application for the sales management team of Tata Motors.  This application was designed to provide the necessary product line information to the new recruits in the company's sales department.  • Developed an application for the employees of General Motors. This application was designed to detail the employee on various components and functionalities of existing turbines. By doing so, the employee would get a complete understanding on how to handle an engine during malfunctions. Education M.S. in Computer Science Loyola University of Chicago - Chicago, IL May 2010 B.E. in Electronics and Communication Engineering Anna University May 2005 Masters Department of Computer Science of Loyola University Chicago Teaching Assistantship Loyola University Chicago Skills .NET (8 years), C# (8 years), MS SQL SERVER (8 years), SQL (8 years), SQL SERVER (8 years) Additional Information • Involved in full SDLC Process in terms of gathering requirements, design, development, testing and migration of various projects.  • Lead and guide a team of developers on .NET application projects guiding them with the design, development and testing effort with the most updated technologies - SOLID Principles, Entity Framework, and TDD.  • Designed and developed well-diversed ASP.NET applications including both Windows Services and Web applications, web services, WCF Applications using the most updated .NET technologies - MVC implemented with SOLID Principles, Entity Framework and TDD  • Worked in implementing App Fabric Mechanism in one of applications in order to cache the results and improve performance of the application.  • Developed GIS applications for airports using ArcGIS Server, Flex and Silverlight APIs.  • Experienced in working with Oracle and SQL Server store procedures, triggers and functions.  • Handled migration of projects from ArcGIS 10 to ArcGIS 10.1 Server configuration.  • Handled deployment of GIS applications for our Airport Clients.    Technical Skills:  • Languages: C, C++, C# , ASP .NET, ADO.NET, Java, JavaScript, JSP, Python, SQL, PL/SQL, XML, HTML,XHTML, CSS, MXML, ActionScript,  • Applications: MS Visual studio , Adobe Flash, Eclipse, SharePoint, Dream Weaver, Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Captivate 4, MS Word, MS Power Point, MS Excel, Articulate, Python IDLE,  • Source Control: TFS, SVN  • Caching Mechanism: App Fabric  • Reports: Crystal reports using Visual Studio  • ArcGIS Server/SDK: ArcGIS 9.3/10/10.1, ArcGIS Mobile  • Databases: Oracle, Microsoft SQL Server, MS Access  • Data mining: Using Rapid Miner tool and Clementine tool    • Operating Systems: Windows 2012, Windows XP, Windows 7, Windows Vista, Unix, Linux and Macintosh