Sr Python Developer Sr <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Software Tools Developer New Rochelle, NY OBJECTIVE:  A Software Engineering job where I work with fun, smart, and talented people who are building cool things.    SPECIALTY:  Rapid prototyping and development using scripting and existing Open Source and COTS products, web development using a Python back end, and development using the GNU tool chain in a Linux environment.    STRENGTHS:  Python, Linux, Django, Bash shell scripting, RPM, KickStart, Make    COMPETENCIES:  C/C++, HTML, Dart, Javascript, OpenSSL, CVS, ClearCase, Subversion, Bazaar, Mercurial, Perforce    EXPOSURE TO:  SQL, R, VHDL, Java, PHP, XML, Basic, Visual Studio, VxWorks, LynxOS Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr Python Developer Peloton Cycle - New York, NY July 2015 to Present Responsibilities  Integrated a forms processing library (wtforms) into an internally developed content management system built with CherryPy which was previously using doing per-controller validation and directing all form errors to a generic failure page. Bug fixes on an internally developed ORM. Troubleshooting of memory and performance problems. Sr Python Developer Bank of America Merrill Lynch - New York, NY July 2013 to July 2015 Responsibilities  Work on the Quartz Core team developing framework libraries and tooling for use by a large in-house development community. Major contributions include:    A pre-commit code review service for changes to Mercurial repositories. Project consists of a JSON api web service and a web based UI built using the web service. The service uses Mercurial bundles as the unit of change, rather than diff’s, allowing much tighter integration with the targeted revision control system. This allows the system to do automatic merges and editing of submitted reviews to remove already approved and pushed changesets from outstanding reviews.    A querying api built for a proprietary object database. The proprietary object database is basically a key-value store with indexing. The interface is modeled after SqlAlchemy’s ORM querying api, enabling a much more Pythonic interface to the database. It also optimizes the queries based on pre-existing indexes in the database.    A continuous integration and SDLC workflow tool which monitors collections of projects for changes and launches a build of the collection, including unittests, on a distributed compute grid when a change is detected. The tool also allows promotion of builds between different stages of the SDLC; such as integration, user acceptance testing, pre-production and production. The framework uses pluggable policies for what should be performed at each stage of the SDLC, allowing fine grained control for each project using the system.    Other duties include architectural design of upcoming projects, providing Python usage guidance, and mentoring junior engineers and interns. Sr. Python Developer Behr Process Group - Santa Ana, CA October 2012 to July 2013 Responsibilities  Design and development of a custom kiosk management platform for managing 2,000 to 10,000 kiosks. The software consists of a server backend with an html administrative interface and restful api, a Dart based user interface, and a python based client. The platform is used for: monitoring the kiosks, running on demand tasks such as capturing screenshots, executing a shell command and reporting its output, and distributing updates.    Other duties include troubleshooting device failures, automation of information retrieval used for reporting, and mentoring junior engineers. Sr. Software Tools Developer Irdeto - San Francisco, CA October 2011 to October 2012 Work in the online technologies group of Irdeto developing self protecting digital content (BD+) and applying the software to commercial Blu-ray discs.  Duties included maintenance and bug fixes to the existing code base, incorporating new software features, and development of tools, typically with a web or gui component, for automating processes, improving workflow and providing interfaces for easy archival and retrieval of information.  Specific projects include: A Blu-ray player information tracking database, a secure key server, and a distributed framework for automating the process of applying protection to Blu-ray disks which allocated jobs to a set of distributed workers. All of these projects incorporated a web based interface. Technical Lead - Internal Tools Development Boeing June 2008 to October 2011 Work as the Internal Tools Development lead includes evaluating existing tools for use in internal development, and implementing custom solutions where off-the-shelf solutions are not viable. Current tools under development are a distributed continuous integration system, tools to support the configuration and utilization of distributed embedded testing resources, and an automated Linux installation system. Software Engineer Boeing June 2005 to October 2011 Work on the Future Combat Systems, System of Systems Common Operating Environment (FCS/SOSCOE).  Titles Held: Technical Lead - Software Support Services and Installation Boeing February 2007 to June 2008 Work as the Software Support Services technical lead included redesigning the layout of the code base and build system to accommodate building for multiple operating systems as well as multiple versions of the software, design of the development and runtime environments delivered to customers, and migration of the installation methodology from a "scripts and tarballs" approach to an implementation utilizing RPM. Other responsibilities included integration of SOSCOE with other FCS programs on customized hardware configurations. Programmer Boeing June 2005 to February 2007 Work included designing and implementing cryptographic and other Information Assurance related APIs for Linux and VxWorks. Personal responsibilities included building a PKI infrastructure using OpenSSL libraries and migrating the teams test code to the CppUnit testing infrastructure, along with writing a substantial portion of the new tests. Software Engineer Internship Boeing January 2005 to June 2005 Work on the Future Combat Systems, System of Systems Common Operating Environment (FCS SOSCOE) in the area of Information Assurance. Also worked on maintaining and improving the build system used by the project and porting the code base to LynxOS's BlueCat operating system. Assistant Systems Administrator University of California Riverside - Riverside, CA August 2004 to June 2005 Miscellaneous duties directed toward maintaining the infrastructure of the Computer Science Department as well as troubleshooting problems for users of the system. Teaching Assistant University of California Riverside - Riverside, CA March 2003 to June 2005 Teach three hour per week lab sessions to groups of 20 to 30 students for classes including: Computer Networks, Database Management Systems, Software Engineering, and Introduction to Computer Science. Graduate Research Assistant University of California Riverside - Riverside, CA June 2003 to June 2004 Conduct research in embedded systems focusing on building GUI tools for visualizing the concurrency exploited by mapping computationally intensive routines to hardware, as well as bit-width reduction of computations which have been mapped to hardware. Academic Excellence Workshop Facilitator University of California Riverside - Riverside, CA January 2001 to March 2003 Lead workshops in Computer Science, Mathematics and Physics for the Bourns College of Engineering Office of Special Programs. Workshops were designed to give students additional instruction and assistance in the subject area in a more personal and interactive setting than the classroom. Undergraduate Research Assistant University of California Riverside - Riverside, CA June 2002 to September 2002 Conducted research in embedded systems focusing on compiling high level languages, such as C, into VHDL with the objective of doing intensive computations on a reconfigurable FPGA for a Reconfigurable System on a Chip architecture. Freelance fabrication Fabricator - Los Angeles, CA 1995 to 2000 for the theatre and film industry, specializing in fine carpentry, welding, and special effects. Education Masters of Science in Computer Science and Engineering University of California Riverside - Riverside, CA Bachelors of Science in Computer Science and Engineering Yale University Skills Python, Linux, Django, Bash shell scripting, RPM, KickStart, Make