Senior ETL Developer, Used Pentaho, PHP, Python Senior ETL <span class="hl">Developer</span>, Used Pentaho, PHP, <span class="hl">Python</span> Senior ETL Developer, Used Pentaho, PHP, Python American Fork, UT Work Experience Senior ETL Developer, Used Pentaho, PHP, Python Younique - Lehi, UT July 2017 to April 2019 to build a data warehouse in Redshift and data-marts in RDS, Wrote a nested set tree implementation that took a previously 24 hour process and ran it in 10 minutes by porting the data intensive portion to a stored procedure on an RDS database. Interfaces with Restful APIs to pull data from third party vendors for use in the the warehouse. Designed a system whereby processes were tracked and any failures resulted in notifications to email and text messages.  July 2017 - April 2019 Contract Developer CipherTooth - American Fork, UT December 2016 to July 2017 Developing an API in PHP for CipherTooth's R3 Encryption and MItM. The API will be delivered on a thumb drive, or zip a file that will contain a modified version of XAMPP, such that it can be loaded on a computer and supply a working demonstration, a working API to Code against as well as documentation, and the ability to test the encryption and the MItM detection.  Dec 2016 - July 2017 Senior Developer ConnexionPoint - Murray, UT December 2015 to December 2016 in an AWS environment with RDS databases running a telecommunications platform called CallPro. My three man team that designed an EDW system that implemented a star-flake model for the data from CallPro, NICE and ADP (which required X509 certificate authentication) and some proprietary sources into a single structure. The database was segmented by name spacing for each client to make it easy to scale by spinning up servers to move the busiest clients to their own servers. Metrics were tracked to keep the instance to keep it from getting full. The database exported data to an Aurora platform for the reporting team to produce reports and dashboards. I wrote an ETL tool in PHP with JQuery for the front end. The back-end was straight PHP and ran on an AWS Ubuntu server to avoid data charges. In a "foot race" with the "old tool", My ETL moved 2.3 million records in 26 seconds. The ETL tool and the import processes were launched via CRON jobs.  Dec 2015 - Dec 2016 Lead Developer CipherTooth - American Fork, UT February 2013 to December 2015 I built security systems to detect Man in the Middle (MIM), Spoofing, Phishing and listener attacks, and generally replace SSL. Some implementations are placed into websites using controls written for specific browsers, which are then integrated with JQuery. Some implementations involved developing libraries that are loaded, or compiled into other programs to secure their communications. One implementation was delivered as a plug in to Word-press that used a web service to detect the intrusion and warn the user and website owner, including tracking of attacks looking for patterns, etc.  Feb 2013 - Dec 2015 Lead Developer AutomaticallyYou - American Fork, UT December 2008 to February 2013 I developed a data driven client with Delphi that automated a hidden browser to access the DOM in that browser to automate interaction with web based services. Some of the web services supported were Facebook, Twitter and LinkedIn. We pulled random selections from a MySQL database through a web service to post comments from the clients' computer. Metrics on activity were stored in the database. I built the AutomaticallyYou website using PHP, JavaScript and JQuery on a LAMP and WAMP platform.  Dec 2008 - Feb 2013 Senior Developer Convertabase - American Fork, UT February 2004 to December 2008 I Developed a suite of data conversion tools, applied for and was awarded a patent (Assigned to Convertabase) on these tools. The tools read meta-data from any database that supports SQL92 ODBC to build and validate steps. A visual parser that can handle files, theoretically, Terabytes in size. The tool auto-parses COBOL records if the map file is available. The tool was scalable across multiple servers, ran multi-threaded, and can segment an ETL job across servers to increase throughput. Through the years, multiple databases, ETL processes, Data Warehouses, custom tools were written and many data conversions were performed.  Feb 2004 - Dec 2008 Senior Developer Affiliated Computer Services - Draper, UT August 2003 to February 2004 I helped build a medical claims workflow processing system that spanned four countries with a parameter driven workflow system running on MS SQL servers. I developed a web based system for keying in characters unintelligible to OCR programs. I wrote a data import program, which imported records from a legacy system; the import ran in less than a third the time of the previous import; handling twice the data on the same hardware.  Aug 2003 - Feb 2004 Senior Developer Aradyme Corporation - American Fork, UT November 2001 to August 2003 Designed and built a replacement for a proprietary database engine adding a thread safe record locking system. The new engine improved performance (Raw speed of reads / writes) by a factor of 14 to 1. Built a Kerberos based Client / Server engine to move the system to a Client / Server architecture, Designed and built a new indexing method that indexed millions of records in milliseconds.  Nov 2001 - Aug 2003 Senior Programmer Learnframe - Draper, UT February 2000 to October 2001 Designed and built a web implementation for the PLM (Pinnacle Learning Manager), specifically reporting and data transfer. I supported the implementation at several companies staying onsite thought implementation to facilitate ease of transition. Designed and implemented a Client / Server data conversion system to integrate the PLM with third party programs. Designed and implemented a Java application to perform integration with a java based system and other systems. I Wrote several JSPs for use on the company's demonstration, and customer hosting servers. Designed an AICC compliant import for information from AICC compliant CBT Courses using Delphi and XSQL for reporting  Feb 2000 - Oct 2001 Programmer / Analyst, Specialized in Data Y2K issues PowerQuest - Orem, UT August 1999 to February 2000 Designed and implemented in-house applications to automate a paperless office system, built an electronic self-review form, an online work management tool, and a contract management tool.  Aug 1999 - Feb 2000 Senior Application Specialist LRS - Springfield, IL March 1997 to August 1999 Designed and implemented a Client / Server, three-tier Object Oriented pension management system. This system, written in Delphi, used objects to encapsulate business rules, data storage, and retrieval. I built and recommended custom objects for the Human interface, built and maintained inherited screen interfaces. I also wrote a data conversion program which became the standard.  March 1997 - Aug 1999 Consultant; Provo Green Light Systems - Orem, UT October 1996 to February 1997 Orem, UT (Contracting)  Consulted at onsite locations in Ohio, Oregon and Utah for individual businesses, wrote custom objects needed for core business in Delphi. Ohio jobs included internal Bank Software to manage insurance premiums based on tables produced by actuaries and modified by variables to produce premiums. I automated the import files into the database, which was used to perform the calculations.  October 1996 - Feb 1997 Senior Programmer Soft one corporation - Orem, UT March 1994 to October 1996 Designed and built multimedia applications using VB. 3.0, and then Delphi. I built a measurement system and database used to track user's progress. I used Delphi to design Internet based applications displaying multimedia. I converted data from MS Access 2 to Paradox.  March 1994 - October 1996 Education Computer Science BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY - Provo, UT Computer Science DES MOINES AREA COMMUNITY COLLEGE - Boone, IA Skills php (10+ years), JavaScript / JQuery (10+ years), AWS Redshift (3 years), AWS RDS / Aurora (3 years), MYSQL (10+ years), Linux (4 years), ETL (10+ years), Data Warehouse (10+ years), Pentaho (2 years), Ssis (2 years) Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Patents APPARATRUS, SYSTEM, AND METHOD FOR DECENTRALIZED DATA CONVERSION (#7,661,103 B2) https://patents.google.com/patent/US20070160067A1/en 2010-02 An apparatus, system, and method are disclosed for decentralized data conversion. The present invention includes providing a server configured to be accessible over the Internet and receiving a payment from a user through a payment gateway module, the gateway module operated by the server. Additionally, the invention includes receiving a data source over the Internet into the server, transforming data in the data source to create converted data adapted to a target, the transformation directed by one or more integration objects configured to perform conversion steps, the integration objects in a hierarchical structure defining an order of execution, the transformation controlled by the server, and returning the transformed data over the Internet from the server. The present invention allows customers who would otherwise be unable to access powerful data conversion tools to convert data at a reasonable cost. METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR SECURE DATA TRANSMISSIONS (#10,182,041 B2) http://patentsgazette.uspto.gov/week03/OG/html/1458-3/US10182041-20190115.html 2017-04 A patent for protecting information with a tunnel that is more secure than HTTPS    Also contains a reference to a patent on the ability to detect MItM attacks METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR SECURE DATA TRANSMISSIONS (#US 2014/0245002 A1) 2014-08 An apparatus, system, and method are disclosed for secure data transmissions. In one embodiment, a method includes receiving a request for data from a remote client, the request including a public lntemet protocol address of the remote client, the request encrypted according to an initial encryption scheme, encrypting the requested data according to a different encryption scheme, and transferring the data to the remote client. 