Software Developer Software <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer Methuen, MA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Developer Sentient Decision Science - Portsmouth, NH August 2016 to February 2017 Worked with tech like PHP LAMP, Laravel, Python, C++, Bootstrap, jQuery, MSSQL, Redis, and MySQL. Developed and debugged a SaaS platform working with APIs Remote PHP Developer VanDePoel Productions - Aliso Viejo, CA January 2016 to April 2016 Responsibilities  o Used HTML, CSS, LESS, and Bootstrap for UI style and design  o Used Laravel MVC framework for lead-retrieval, QR, and BlinQ web applications.  o Created database migrations for easy management  o Used MySQL backend   o Created QR codes for event attendee badges  o Worked with NoSql (Redis) database  o Used composer and artisan for Laravel app setup  o PHPUnit testing for process isolation tests and failures  o iOS development environment with Sublime  o Virtual hosting for multiple domain management  o GIT and BitBucket for version control and branching  o Jira ticketing for issue management and tracking  o Skype, Join-Me and TeamViewer for remote team interactions    Accomplishments  Improved on multiple applications for event check-in, lead retrieval and cloud services.     Skills Used  PHP, Laravel, Apache, MySQL, jQuery, Bootstrap, Git, BitBucket, Redis, Ajax, HTML5, Less, CSS Remote Python Developer Asset-Map - Philadelphia, PA September 2015 to January 2016 Contract  Developed company website applications in Python in Django framework  ? Used HTML and CSS backbone for UI style and design  ? Developed in a MAC environment  ? Postgres db  ? Javascript with jQuery framework in app UI development  ? Used Sublime for coding and debugging  ? Used GIT for version control and branch management  ? Consulted with the business to adapt software to company specifications  ? Application unit testing and debugging for quality assurance as well as speed testing  ? Managed Development and Production code-base for smooth code fix and update deployment Software Developer International Rectifier - Temecula, CA November 2014 to July 2015 Contract  Developed company website applications in PHP scripting and object-orientated coding structure  ? Used HTML and CSS for UI style and design  ? Developed in a Windows environment  ? Created Windows Tasks and cron jobs for automated scripts and triggers  ? MS SQL development and PHP back-end programming  ? Javascript with jQuery framework in app UI development  ? Used phpMyAdmin for database admin, stored procedures, and db optimizations and maintenance  ? Used Sublime for coding and debugging  ? Used TortoiseSVN for version control and branch management  ? Consulted with users to adapt software to company specifications  ? Application unit testing and debugging for quality assurance as well as speed testing  ? Managed Development and Production code-base for smooth code fix and update deployment PHP Developer iSpot.com - Concord, CA August 2013 to August 2014 Contract  Purely remote position as a full-lifecycle PHP application developer  ? Worked and developed in a MAC environment  ? Developed PHP application, adapting cookie-cutter Tonic framework for each individual pharmaceutical research company specs  ? Worked with a team of developers, designers, DBAs as well as with Business Analysts Application UI developing with PHP, MySQL and Oracle  ? Developed web application with ZEND and Tonic PHP frameworks  ? Used Authorize.net API for payment gateway and validation  ? Used phpMyAdmin for database optimization, Sublime for coding and debugging, TortoiseSVN for branching and version control, Cornerstone for FTP access, Firebug for UI testing, Git for version control within a team environment  ? Consulted with customers to adapt software to company specifications  ? Preformed unit testing, debugging for quality assurance Senior PHP Developer Auction.com - Irvine, CA November 2011 to July 2013 Contract  Worked with a team of developers, designers, DB admins, DBAs in full-lifecycle software engineering and UI design  ? Worked in a Windows environment  ? Application engineering with PHP scripting and object-oriented coding, Java, Python, MySQL, Oracle, and Apache  Converted PHP Auction legacy code to proprietary PHP framework with MySQL db and Oracle DB  ? Preformed Java application development and testing  ? Developed Java plug-in applications accessing Oracle DB  ? Developed Auction application using Python with the Bottle framework  ? Front-end web development with HTML, CSS, Javascript and jQuery  Developed Auction Watchlist in jQuery using a SlickGrid library  ? Use of design packages .Less and twitter bootstrap for customer UI development  ? Worked with proprietary framework, as well as integrating Zend MVC framework  Used phpMyAdmin db, Jira ticketing system, Sublime coding and testing, Eclipse, TortoiseSVN, Firebug, Git  ? Used Google Analytics for website SEO and user behavior tracking  ? Unit testing, debugging and Quality Assurance for software development for high-volume traffic Independent Web Contractor CMS development February 2011 to November 2011 Server-side application developing with PHP, MySQL and Apache LAMP  ? Developed in an MAC environment  ? Front-end web development with HTML, CSS, Javascript and jQuery  ? CMS development with Drupal framework and Ubercart integration  ? User Interface and workflow website design  ? Created proprietary back-end user admin applications  ? Used phpMyAdmin, Eclipse, SVN, X-Debug, Firebug  ? Used Paypal and Authorize.net APIs as payment and validation gateways  ? Testing, debugging and Quality Assurance  ? Amazon Web Services for video storage PHP Developer Harvard Law School - Cambridge, MA October 2010 to February 2011 Contract  Application and web development in a LAMP setting  ? Developed company web applications UI with Ajax, jQuery, Javascript and CSS  ? Created back-end user admin application as well as front-end user interface for staff and student data management  ? Used phpMyAdmin db management, Eclipse coding environment, SVN version control, X-Debug and Firebug for debugging and QA  ? Consulted with faculty and students for UI specifications Web Developer Banyan Technology Group - Naples, FL November 2009 to July 2010 Full-Time  Full-cycle design and development of websites for local businesses using PHP, MySQL, Apache, Ajax jQuery, Javascript and CSS within a LAMP setting.  Partial remote web development work in a MAC environment  ? Consulted with customer base to adapt website UI and functionality to user and admin specifications  ? Created back-end user admin for sites for proprietary CMS functionality  ? Implemented HTML5 for more interactive UI and precise user input.  ? Used common SEO techniques for better search engine placement  Incorporated PHP OOP in development for more structured and reusable code  ? Implementation and optimization of MySQL Data Server  ? Implemented Virtual Merchant and Google .Net APIs Gateways and SSL encryption for e-commerce Merchant sites  ? Used phpMyAdmin, Eclipse, SVN, X-Debug, Firebug  ? Application and website testing, debugging and Quality Assurance Remote Software Developer Cron Systems - Punta Gorda, FL June 2009 to November 2009 Contract  Start to end software development with PHP, MySQL, Javascript, CSS, Ajax and jQuery within a LAMP environment. Fully remote PHP application development position in a Windows environment  ? Created proprietary back-end user admin for sites to add CMS functionality  ? Work remotely within a team of designers, developers and programmers in project scope management  Eclipse, SVN, X-Debug and phpMyAdmin for development tools  ? Created and processed XML files for data transfer and processing  .Net API Gateway integration and SSL encryption for Merchant e-commerce sites using Authorize.net  ? Software testing, debugging and Quality Assurance  ? Java application development and trouble-shooting  ? Data storage and data encryption Administrative Claim Service Incorporated PHP OO - Winchester, MA May 2007 to May 2009 MA ( Developer) - Full-Time  Worked remotely and on-site with a team of programmers and DBAs  ? Company website programming and development with user admin back-end functionality  Use of PHP, HTML, CSS, Ajax, jQuery and Javascript as well as some ASP web technologies to develop company website  ? Converted company site from ASP to PHP  ? Implementation and optimization of MySQL Data Server  MVC development using Zend framework  ? Incorporated PHP OO programming in development for more structured, reusable and secure code  ? Paypal .Net API integration and SSL encryption for e-commerce sites  ? Setup and use of MySQL database with Apache server  ? Tortoise SVN for version control and phpDesigner for SDK  ? Used Firebug and X-Debug for testing, debugging, and Quality Assurance  ? Asterisk telecom setup Software Application Tester Gotuit Media - Woburn, MA April 2006 to May 2007 Full-Time  Software developing using PHP, HTML, CSS, Javascript, Ajax and jQuery  Implementation and optimization of MySQL Data Server Testing, debugging and quality assurance of video editing web application tool Education Associates in Comp Sci - Programming Northern Essex - Haverhill, MA Skills PHP (7 years), MySQL (7 years), Python (2 years), Laravel (2 years), Lamp (7 years), JQuery (4 years), Javascript (5 years) Links http://www.micahconte.info https://www.linkedin.com/in/micahconte/ https://github.com/micahconte Certifications/Licenses Web Design June 2005 to Present Additional Information Web developer with extensive experience with full-cycle design and development of database-driven web sites and software. More than 7 years of software development experience from conception to release. Proven ability to analyze, troubleshoot, and optimize code using a number of open-source tools