Lead Developer Lead <span class="hl">Developer</span> Looking for the next Brooklyn Bridge New York, NY Full-stack developer. Capable of learning any language and platform. Pioneer in e-commerce and event management software. Recent work includes helping The NYT increase paid subscriptions 400% and Disney's Topps division launch iOS #1 sports app. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Lead Developer The New York Times - New York, NY December 2011 to June 2017 • Built the architecture for several high-profile, high trafficked websites for the marketing services division of The Times, including TimesTalks, The New York Times Film Club, and LookWest.  • Built a Landing Page generator to streamline the creation and editing of the marketing department's subscription campaigns. Solved daily challenges that came across our desk related to ad trafficking and analytics.  • Provided technical expertise to roll out online marketing of new NYT products such as Times Insider, re-branded International edition and partnerships with likes of Apple Pay.  • Mentored and directed junior developers in executing online subscription sales. Assured successful code integration among marketing, business ops, and account teams. Python Developer Dog on a Horse - Brooklyn, NY June 2012 to October 2012 Contractor to Disney's Topps trading cards company. Built an iOS app "Bunt" that became #1 in Sports category of App Store.   I developed the CMS that monitored statistics of use and enabled Topps to communicate with members.   Helped manage the Amazon AWS servers.   Used Web2Py, Python, and Bootstrap. Self-Employed Open Hydrant - New York, NY April 2011 to November 2011 • Created a Twitter App for performers to manage repertoire and schedule shows. Wrote all front-end, back-end code, SQL design, and supporting marketing assets. LetSister.com. Created a mobile version.  • Provided consulting to clients re. various HTML5 and database issues. Consultant Wunderland Group - Chicago, IL February 2010 to March 2011 • Provided front-end development for clients CME Group (NYMEX, Board of Trade), Northwestern Law, A Simple Truth, Opinon Labs.  • Worked with Art departments to generate new templates and web sites, such as a micro-site for AllState. For CME Group, built Javascript-tools to aggregate and display data for a variety of types of trades. Web Developer Wunderland Group - New York, NY March 2010 to April 2010 • Created all HTML, CSS, Javascript and VBScript to re-launch a web site for client Plan B  • Created custom CMS to manage assets for Census 2010. Sr. Content Strategist Publicis Modem - New York, NY July 2009 to October 2009 • Interviewed product managers and technology team to determine how to convert factory specifications into consumer-friendly product attributes.  • Helped develop a new LG Compare tool. Web Developer Strategic Data - Los Angeles, CA April 2008 to June 2009 • Created Tenant Mail, for landlords to manage rent roll, schedule printing and mailing of invoices to tenants. Produced all front-end, back-end code, SQL design, Cron jobs.  • For a cooking school, built a Recipe Manager / Shopping List Generator.  • Built wholesale, fulfillment interface for water bottle company, EcoUsable using PHP, SQL. Sr. UI Designer and Application Developer Vanguard Direct - New York, NY October 2006 to February 2008 • Built HTML, CSS to provide for web sites, email campaigns. Worked with IT team at City of New York, New York Sports Club, MCU Credit Union.  • Enabled project managers to record client feedback by building a metric-based survey system. Design Consultant RMG Connect - New York, NY August 2006 to October 2006 • Designed multiple language versions of a DeBeers web site.  • Provided CSS for a re-launch of the Lane Bryant and Fashion Bug web sites. Chief Technology Officer Allyance Apparel - New York, NY August 2005 to July 2006 • For apparel maker, created custom web tools using Ajax / PHP / Mysql. Web site: e-commerce store / membership profiles, rewards program with redeemable points. Made custom CMS for event planning and web site content.  • Created codebase and templates for use across divisions/lines: BlackBottoms, SkiGear. Interim Dir. Technology Innovation Ads - New York, NY February 2005 to May 2005 • Drafted a design for an integrated Ad Network / Affiliate Manager.  • Solved daily, on-going challenges of converting publisher feeds into client lead deliverables by devising custom forms, content scraping using PHP, Javascript. Lead Developer Massey Knakal Realty - New York, NY February 2004 to February 2005 • Worked with Technology Committee to standardize listings templates, gather requirements for a Listings Management System (LMS) to serve fast-growing company.  • Built the LMS, allowing brokers to pull data from external sources, edit listings, one-click push to web site and PDF, and to track marketing activity.  • Enabled management to quickly gauge the productivity of 100+ brokers and territories. Lead Developer Axis Interactive - Los Angeles, CA July 2002 to February 2004 • Created back-end code and custom admin tools to manage a variety of web sites, including those for a Grammy-winning musician, a DIY wedding card vendor, card services provider.  • Created databases and migrated Excel sheets to serve re-designed websites for infant clothing company, Baby Lulu. Provided all ASP.net code to manage and display catalog.  • Devised and implemented a postcard campaign that converted hard-copy list of customers into members of online loyalty program. Developer, Customer Service Lazy Lizard Internet February 2000 to June 2002 • Earned high service rating. Set up web hosting accounts and responded to requests from a range of clients that included comedian Louis CK and the Ukranian Boy Scouts Alumni.  • Helped maintain Red Hat servers and installed and created software to run on Linux. Education B.S. in Business Administration University of South Carolina - Columbia, SC Skills Ajax (10+ years), CSS (10+ years), Javascript (1 year), PHP (8 years), SQL (8 years) Additional Information • Won a Publisher's Award at The New York Times.  • Was a paid contributor to America's Finest News Source, The Onion.  • Completed three marathons.  • Completed improvisation program at ImprovOlympic West, enhancing listening skills.  • Participant at Google I/O Developer Conference, 2008.  • Initiate improved design by blogging about usability issues pertaining to Google, Pandora, Windows and other major service providers.  • Features Editor and regular columnist for The Gamecock during Univ. South Carolina years.