Python/SQL Data Engineer <span class="hl">Python</span>/SQL Data Engineer Python/SQL Data Engineer - Capital One Dallas, TX Obtain a Data Scientist position that utilizes my expertise with Python, R, and other data science tools. Work Experience Python/SQL Data Engineer Capital One June 2018 to Present Re-wrote SAS/Teradata models and reports using Python and the Snowflake database platform. Wrote DAGs for the Apache Airflow scheduling and automation system that managed ETL and reporting. Data Scientist Emtech Solutions January 2015 to April 2018 Developed prescriptive analytics models and data aggregation tools using Python and SQL. Gathered requirements and analyzed available data to determine the appropriate predictive models. Developed prescriptive models that increased customer retention by 25%. Architected and automated a data integration and reporting process that saved 40 working hours monthly. Developed a reporting and mapping tool with Geopandas. Business Intelligence Consultant Bank of America April 2012 to September 2014 Developed SSRS dashboards for data and market analysis. Used SAS predictive models to identify trends in the resulting data. Developed SSIS packages that collected user input, imported data from multiple sources, and standardized the raw data. Business Intelligence Consultant VDC Marketing October 2008 to February 2012 Developed descriptive and predictive analytics models using SAS. Developed ETL packages with SSIS to ensure data consistency and integrity. Consulted with end users to gather requirements for proposed applications. Application Architect/ Developer AT&T June 2007 to September 2008 Developed and enhanced applications written with VB.NET using the .NET 3.0 framework. Developed reporting applications with Access, SQL Server, and Excel VBA. Identified and formulated key performance indicators. Wrote VBA macros to reconfigure and format raw data for reporting purposes. Application Architect/ Developer EDS February 2007 to June 2007 Developed a turnkey data collection and reporting tool using VB.NET, Excel, and SQL Server. Developed SSIS packages for data validation, transformation, and upload to SQL Server. Designed Access reports. Data Architect Nokia August 2003 to January 2007 Used VB.NET and SQL Server 2005 in designing and developing a sales quote application that uploaded sales packages in Excel files, validated the data, and loaded it into a data warehouse. Designed reports using Business Objects. Designed and developed Excel and Access VBA applications that managed the implementation of a nationwide high-speed data network. Developed an ETL process using SQL Server 2005 SSIS. Developed reports using SQL Server 2005 Reporting Services. Designed a data warehouse and OLAP cubes using SQL Server 2005 Analysis Services. Created Crystal Xcelsius reporting and forecasting dashboard models based on Excel data models. Incorporated data from SAP in development of reports. Visual Basic/SQL Server Developer EI Consulting December 2000 to August 2003 Developed a company-wide payroll reporting system with VB.NET that combined data extracted from an XML document and SQL Server 2000 database. Wrote stored procedures with Transact-SQL.  Invesco Realty Advisors- Designed a Visual Basic 6.0 application that augmented Yardi property management software. Data was extracted from an Oracle database using ADO, dynamic PL/SQL and stored procedures. Results were fed to XML documents that opened as Excel spreadsheets. Participated in all stages of the software development cycle including the gathering of user requirements, specification building, design and development, and testing. Access/Excel Consultant Nortel Networks November 1999 to November 2000 Developed an Access database used to generate reports for market growth forecast analyses. Raw data in Excel spreadsheets was re-formatted, augmented with additional calculations, and uploaded into a master SQL Server 2000 database. Wrote ad hoc Access queries and reports for managers and senior engineers. Developed Excel templates with pivot tables, graphs, and charts based on user-specified criteria. Education Master of Business Administration in Business Administration UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS AT DALLAS - Dallas, TX August 2013 Graduate Certificate in Data Mining and Business Intelligence in Mining NEW YORK UNIVERSITY Skills SQL SERVER (8 years), SQL (10+ years), VB.NET (7 years), SAS (6 years), EXCEL (8 years), Python, Java, AWS Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Languages- Python (extensive experience with Pandas, Sci-kit Learn, Numpy, NetworkX, GeoPandas, and OpenCV), R, Base SAS, VB.NET, VBA  Databases- SAS, Snowflake, SQL Server 2005 and 2008(including SSAS, SSIS, and SSRS), Access, Oracle  Applications- Tableau, Excel, Word, PowerPoint, Xcelsius, Business Objects, SAP, EPIC