Senior Python, Javascript Engineer Senior <span class="hl">Python</span>, Javascript Engineer Senior Python, Javascript Engineer - Sturdyworks Coto De Caza, CA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Python, Javascript Engineer Sturdyworks - Trabuco Canyon, CA October 2011 to Present Contracting onsite and remote as Senior Software Engineer for, among others:    Wells Fargo, Remote Sr. Python developer for new Cloud Integration Hub used to provision, monitor and secure several major cloud platforms (Asure, Open Stack, etc.) for compliance with international banking standards, using Python REST_toolkit, MongoDb, Puppet, ELK stack;    CasinoMoney.com (fintech industry) - Created new check cashing sub system running on AWS using Python daemon, multiprocessing modules running alongside Django server as micro-service. Messaging to Django, PostgreSQL ORM via JSON, REST APIs over secure web sockets and to Redis module directly. Python daemon also sends messages as Telecheck packets wrapped in Datawire XML API message containers using custom Python encoders, decoders, libXML and secure Requests modules. Frontend uses Bootstrap, Backbone.js, Socket.IO and new Chromium Javascript paper check and ID magnetic stripe readers;    Cincinnati Bell and GTE - Lead reporting system developer. Created multiple Python 3.x services using daemon (pep-3143) and multiprocessing modules in a micro-services type architecture. Extensive PyTz date-time related calculations with ZeroMQ, JSON for messaging to frontend and Couchbase NoSQL schema designs I created. In Python 3.x created multi-part rich MIME type emails with ReportLab for PDF and several algorithms for summarizing tends in alerts sent monitoring staff. Worked in Atlassian Agile software creating tasks, estimates, technical documents and to follow appropriate trends (that green line). Software running on VmWare cloud and was thoroughly unit tested;    Samsung R&D - Lead effort to create new Django REST Framework (DRF) APIs in a new TDD process and to then achieve complete unittest coverage for a pre-Superbowl release. Utilized Django, DRF unittest and Coverage, Py.test, Mock, FactoryBoy, HTTPie, Selenium. Created technical docs for developers to organize and continue TDD in defined local development environment. Tests included Javascript, Angular.js $httpBackend, Jasmine, Karma e2e and Node.js, Grunt as well as Travis CI, AWS cloud technologies;    Kia Motorsports - Lead a group of 5 developers familiar with Java, JSTL, Tomcat to convert a static desktop website into a Responsive (mobile, tablet and desktop) hybrid SPA web app. The app resembled an aircraft dashboard with many D3.js gauges, and is used to control Kia's Unattended Vehicle Operations (UVO). Project used Javascript, Anjular.js 1.4, UI-Router, Bootstrap 3.x, Ruby/SASS/CSS3, HTML5 as well as SEO friendly Assemble.io rendered Handlebar templates (enclosing Angular.js templates) with Sails, Express, CMS backend including Node.js tasks, Gulp runner;    Envisioning tech for entrepreneurs through business analysis, requirements related documents in full Agile SDLC including, among others: Candela Corporation - Completed Enhanced business intelligence (BI) dashboard for distributor to wholesalers (B2B) using ETL, PostgreSQL, OO Perl and business analysis (BA); Direct Logix - New features for circuit board design software using PHP, YUI, AJAX, MySQL, AWS cloud; LGST - New wellness monitoring using Python, AngularJS 1.2 (IE8), Bootstrap 3, PyQt, Google APIs; Created RESTful web services (DRF, Tornado); Python Celery services for data migration; Created responsive, mobile first, cross browser SPA apps with HTML5 semantics, CSS3 animations, AJAX.    Cincinnati Bell and GTE - Lead reporting system developer. Created multiple Python 3.x services using daemon (pep-3143) and multiprocessing modules in a micro-services type architecture. Extensive PyTz date-time related calculations with ZeroMQ, JSON for messaging to frontend and Couchbase NoSQL schema designs I created. In Python 3.x created multi-part rich MIME type emails with ReportLab for PDF and several algorithms for summarizing tends in alerts sent monitoring staff. Worked in Atlassian Agile software creating tasks, estimates, technical documents and to follow appropriate trends (that green line). Software running on VmWare cloud and was thoroughly unit tested;    Samsung R&D - Lead effort to create new Django REST Framework (DRF) APIs in a new TDD process and to then achieve complete unittest coverage for a pre-Superbowl release. Utilized Django, DRF unittest and Coverage, Py.test, Mock, FactoryBoy, HTTPie, Selenium. Created technical docs for developers to organize and continue TDD in defined local development environment. Tests included Javascript, Angular.js $httpBackend, Jasmine, Karma e2e and Node.js, Grunt as well as Travis CI, AWS cloud technologies;    Kia Motorsports - Lead a group of 5 developers familiar with Java, JSTL, Tomcat to convert a static desktop website into a Responsive (mobile, tablet and desktop) hybrid SPA web app. The app resembled an aircraft dashboard with many D3.js gauges, and is used to control Kia's Unattended Vehicle Operations (UVO). Project used Javascript, Anjular.js 1.4, UI-Router, Bootstrap 3.x, Ruby/SASS/CSS3, HTML5 as well as SEO friendly Assemble.io rendered Handlebar templates (enclosing Angular.js templates) with Sails, Express, CMS backend including Node.js tasks, Gulp runner;    Envisioning tech for entrepreneurs through business analysis, requirements related documents in full Agile SDLC including, among others: Candela Corporation - Completed Enhanced business intelligence (BI) dashboard for distributor to wholesalers (B2B) using ETL, PostgreSQL, OO Perl and business analysis (BA); Direct Logix - New features for circuit board design software using PHP, YUI, AJAX, MySQL, AWS cloud; LGST - New wellness monitoring using Python, AngularJS 1.2 (IE8), Bootstrap 3, PyQt, Google APIs; Created RESTful web services (DRF, Tornado); Python Celery services for data migration; Created responsive, mobile first, cross browser SPA apps with HTML5 semantics, CSS3 animations, AJAX. Senior C++, Bash Engineer MTS IV November 2008 to September 2011 Solved long standing database replication issues in MySQL 5 and 4.x by debugging Bash database layer, and SQL statements. Brought together ad hoc teams to quickly provide deep analysis of issues, determine root causes, and provide best resolutions. Documented database schema and enhanced it for, among others, international language and currency support. Created, documented C, C++, PHP API in database layer for third-parties. Used SVN, Synergy, Doors for version control, builds and tracking. Practiced ISO 9001 code commits with change-logs directly referencing requirements documents and/or bug reports. Received training in Zend Application Framework. Senior Python Engineer Revver.com June 2007 to October 2008 Responsible for creating DevOps related infrastructure tools for Systems Administration. Helped reengineer and implement an efficient video tagging feature. Updated entire code base of this large public facing web-site receiving millions of hits to the latest versions of Python, Twisted Matrix (Core, Web, Template) XML-RPC, MySQL, Memcache on load balanced Xen VMs. Responsible for merging Git feature branches created by fellow developers and distributing releases. Migrated web servers from Twisted.Core to Lighttpd, Nginx. Created new web service URLs for XML-RPC, RSS feed endpoints and enhanced code using Twisted.Web, SQLAlchemy, JSON. Front-End Developer HessSystems.com December 2006 to May 2007 Created intuitive user interfaces for a variety of APIs in company's backend technology, which were used for outside sales presentations to clients and formulation of new product lines. Reengineering of web-site using Python, Web Standards. Technical Project Manager Ortho Meds in Arizona October 2004 to November 2006 Managed the Clinical IT technology projects requirements, solutions for systems engineering of E-Prescription and RxHub formulary verification in selected Orthopedic EMR software, and of nano form factor hardware platform used in clinics; Software engineering of video distribution for targeted ads or guides, and streaming video to desired locations. Senior Systems Engineer (Pipeline Engineer) Dreamworks S.K.G July 2002 to September 2004 Primary designer, implementer, documenter and supporter of workflow applications between Animation and Editorial and Film Output Departments during Shark Tale feature film. Made many of the most significant modifications which would allow multiple simultaneous productions as well as multi-vendor, multi-application production pipelines and to allow generic productions running concurrently. Implemented RAD technology using Python QT (PyQt) for desktop client/server apps for Shot changes, directory structure, etc. Maintained and reengineered system to send Avid editorial changes to artists on Linux with very advanced Perl regex. Implemented huge matrices of classes using OOP Perl and Python. Maintained Web Apps using Python, mod_ python Apache handlers, Xerces, XSLT, Javascript, CSS. Engaged in Extreme, Pair programming, Code reviews and practiced TDD with standard Python, Perl UnitTest modules. Senior Software Scientist Avamar Technologies September 2001 to June 2002 Enhanced and maintained suite of utilities used by Quality Control Department to test EMC owned Avamar Technologies backup software using C++ and Perl. Created QA checklists and use-cases for testing backup software based on business requirements documents, users manuals, and interviews with engineers. Manually tested software and reported bugs. Internet Developer Epoch Internet December 2000 to August 2001 Stabilized and enhanced high profile control panel for nation's largest privately held tier-1 Internet solutions provider (ISP) epochcenter.com using Perl CGI, JavaScript. Trained development team in OOP. Added referential integrity rules and optimized schema of Oracle database. Defined deployment architecture and created a variety of command-line tools for ISP infrastructure. Software Engineer Tippett Studio November 1997 to December 2000 Created Perl CGI, Javascript publishing system to protect and move local revisions of artists' deliverables to repositories with later archival, restore by tape robot. Responsible for rapid development and reengineering of critical database applications used to route artifacts from one department to another and to summarize completion status for management. Reengineered logic and user interfaces of tools used by artists to send images to Digital Disk Recorder (DDR) for review by supervisors which resulted in 7/24 reliability and 2000 percent speed increase. Increased performance of libraries used to convert database records into objects by 400 percent. Created object-oriented application framework in Perl/Tk which would automatically generate a record browser and editor when new database table defined using MySQL meta data and rules of referential and object integrity. Created web pages using Perl/CGI/JavaScript and PHP/Javascript for submitting, validating, tracking and summarizing output of digital images to film, telecine and Editorial Department. Evaluated and recommended programming languages, application servers, and databases. Software Engineer Sony Imageworks April 1995 to November 1997 Reengineered and maintained real-time distributed processing system with GUI used to render, composite digital images and output images to film and video. Designed and implemented an object-oriented application framework in C++, ViewKit, Motif, X to generate browsers and editors for POET object database information based on Meta data. Designed and implemented Editorial Department tracking system with rapid data input features used to track location and media (Tape, Jazz, Avid, Telecine, etc.) on which image sequences had been transferred and/or shipped. Enhanced and optimized suite of tools used to manage and link various UNIX file systems and emulate single 3 terabyte file system. Interviewed department heads and made presentations to upper management. Defined requirements, design, and testing documentation. Evaluated databases, programming tools and recommended purchases. Technical Support (English) at POET Software - Berlin, DE June 1992 to March 1995 Responsible for providing quality, on-time technical support to ODB (object database) customers and pre-sales technical information to qualified sales leads. Provided advanced analysis, design support to OEM, ISV customers off and on-sight. Worked with SIGS publications editors and developers to publish articles on ODB, OOD and OOP benefits. Reported desired changes to product and documentation based on support tracking data and customer feedback. Network administrator for TCP/IP network with Windows, NT, OS/2, NeXT and UNIX clients. Coded example programs using application frameworks from MS (MFC), IBM, Sun, HP, Borland, and Symantec and NeXT included with product. Education Bachelor of Science in Business Computer Information Systems San Diego State University June 1992 Skills Angular.js (8 years), database (10+ years), MySQL (10+ years), Perl (10+ years), Python (10+ years) Links http://linkedin.com/in/bradsturtevant http://github.com/bradsturtevant http://github.com/bradsturtevant https://stackoverflow.com/users/story/1234022 https://stackoverflow.com/users/1234022/brad-sturtevant Additional Information SKILLS  Development Programming Database User Interfaces WWW  OOP, OOD Python 2.x 3.x MySQL, Postgresql HTML5, CSS3 Full-Stack Grunt, Gulp  UML, ERD NodeJS, SPA NoSQL, Couchbase AngularJS RESTful Services Webpack, Bower  Agile, Extreme C, C++ Django ORM SASS, Less Underscore.js mod_wsgi  Unit Testing Bash, Perl SQL Alchemy Bootstrap Apache, Nginx WAI-ARIA