Lead Developer Lead <span class="hl">Developer</span> Portland, OR Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Lead Developer Gift 2 Grow - Portland, OR October 2015 to Present Responsibilities  Lead backend devoloper for a marketing start up. I was responsible for backend development and architecture for their web application that we built with Drupal 8. www.gift2grow.com    Accomplishments  Helped take concept to production as lead php developer.  Custom Drupal 8 module development.  E-commerece and subscription integration.   Automated direct mail API integration.  Custom Mailchimp integration.  Automated PDF generation for direct mail.    Skills Used  Php  Drupal 8  Ansible Full Stack Web Developer Php python javascript Freelance - Portland, OR 2010 to October 2015 Skills   Languages: Python, Php, Javascript  Operating Systems: Linux, Mac, Windows  Tools: Git, Django, Wordpress, Ionic/Cordova, Angular, Linux command line, AWS, Wordpress, MySQL, Apache, Adobe Creative Suite    Projects  Phogcast - Fog Forecast Alerts  Built an app for photographers to receive notifications for fog forecasts. I wrote a backend program in Django and data scraper in python. I also created a simple mobile UI that displays the forecast maps with AngularJS and Cordova/PhoneGap.     NW Realty Sign - Online Order Management System  Added new features and fixed bugs for an existing php application. This application handles the orders and scheduling for real estate sign installations. Built an Angular frontend application for sign installers that allows them to track daily work, mapping of daily routes and updating work.    PoachedJobs.com - Marketplace  Wrote a custom Wordpress plugin to allow site administrators to easily add new advertisers as well as a page to list all current advertisers or filter by location and type.    PDX Startup Weekend - May 1-3, 2015  Programmed a hardware prototype of a photography accessory that captures and displays images onto an e-ink screen as well as uploading captured images to a remote server.    Education  PDX Code Guild - Intensive Developer Bootcamp, May 2015  Code Oregon/Treehouse - Front End Web Developer course, June 2015  University of Oregon - Business Administration, 2002-2005    Employment  Malaya Signs/NW Realty Sign 2012 - 2015  Worked with a wide variety of clients producing and installing custom signs.    Signs Now Bozeman 2011 - 2012  Worked with a wide variety of clients producing and installing custom signs.    Redoubt Mountain Lodge 2006 - 2011  Worked as a professional guide, photographer, web developer and general maintenance/groundskeeper at a private remote lodge in Lake Clark National Park in Alaska. Sign Production Malaya 2012 to 2015 Sign Production Signs Now 2011 to 2012 Guide/Maintenance/Web Developer Redoubt Mountain Lodge 2005 to 2011 Camera Operator/Graphics Op Freelance 2002 to 2009 Responsibilities  Camera operator and graphics operator for live sports broadcasting    Accomplishments  Clients included University of Oregon, Portland Trailblazers, Portland Winterhawks Video Production/Telemedicine Department of Veterans Affairs 2001 to 2004 Education Certificate Full Stack Developer PDX Code Guild Frontend Developer Code Oregon/Treehouse University of Oregon Skills Symfony (2 years), Drupal 8 (1 year), PHP (6 years) Links http://whatsupdan.com/code/ https://github.com/whatsupdan http://gift2grow.com