Software Developer III Software <span class="hl">Developer</span> III Converse, TX Software Developer and aspiring Data Scientist :) Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Developer III Rackspace - San Antonio, TX June 2017 to January 2018 USA)  Area: Email Platform, Software Dev    Responsibilities:  Development of internal tools necessary for the hosted email  platform provided to Rackspace's clients.  Mostly extending rest services with Python, Fask and MySQL.    *(Technologies: Python, Flask, Redis, Linux) Senior Python Developer Zalando AG - Berlin, DE October 2013 to June 2016 Berlin - Germany)  E-commerce Company for fashion products  Area: Platform Tooling, Software Dev Team    Responsibilities:  Development of internal software tools necessary to monitor and react to problems in Zalando's infrastructure.  Web apps with Python, PostgreSQL as DB backend (sometimes  SqlAlchemy as ORM).  High performance apps based on distributed message pasing  architecture using Redis as message broker, Python with multirpocessing for workers. Code available at: https://github.com/  zalando-zmon/zmon-worker    *(Technologies: Python, PostgreSQL, SqlAlchemy, Redis, Linux) Senior Backend Developer Molecular Health GmbH December 2012 to October 2013 Hei- delberg - Germany)  Startup Company working on Personalized Medicine Tools  Area: Research and Development    Responsibilities:  Backend development of web applications that leverage clinico- molecular databases and a curated knowledge-base to assist  medical professionals on selecting treatments that adapt to the genomic profile of the patient. The work involves creating code for  querying data stored in SQL databases, often using SqlAlchemy  ORM models. Also tackling specific problems related to the Pylons  web framework, like caching results, authentication and authorization. Software developer at Axpe Consulting SL Python - PostgreSQL - Madrid, ES February 2012 to December 2012 Madrid)  Consulting Services for Telefónica R+D (Telefónica Digital - Fu- ture Comms Area) in Spain  Area: Research and Development    Responsibilities:  Analysis and development of a distributed architecture for real time  audio processing to be coupled with third party components in a  voice messaging platform. The work involves the connection to several external APIs (json-rpc, xml-rpc, or RESTfull) and the  development of our own connection APIs. The work also required  heavy use of Python's multiprocessing capabilities, and development of STOMP clients using stomp.py lib.  Some work on optimizing our services running on Linux to achieve  optimum performance.    *(Technologies: Python - Django - ActiveMQ - STOMP - MySQL  - Linux) Software developer Paradigma Tecnológico SL - Madrid, ES May 2011 to October 2011 Madrid)  Startup Software Company  Area: Software Development    Responsibilities:  Development of backend services and expanding the backend  infrastructure/servers to meet an ever growing web traffic volume.  Maintenance and improvement of web scrapping services in production and several Lucene/Solr engines used to store final  results.  In charge of migrating some components of the infrastructure to  Amazon EC2 platform to achieve more scalability.    *(Technologies: Python - Django - Java - Lucene/Solr - MySQL -  Monit - Linux) Software developer Blue Telecom SL - Madrid, ES January 2011 to April 2011 Madrid)  Consulting Services for Ericsson R+D. Spain  Area: Research and Development    Responsibilities:  Collaborate in the development of several Ericsson's product for network traffic identification and filtering.  Use of heuristic and machine learning methods like clustering for identification and classification of network traffic.    *(Technologies: C - Python - Perl - MySQL - Linux) Software developer Calvi Systems SL - Madrid, ES April 2009 to January 2011 Madrid)  Startup Software Company  Area: Research and Development    Responsibilities:  I was in charge of studying new innovative solutions to improve the company's software products. In an agile way, proposed ideas  were written to a short report, discussed with other members of the team, and put in practice in the development of a functional  prototype to be shown as proof of concept.  One line of research was the use of Lucene keyword based search  engine to index hierarchical structured data, and the use of  JavaScript and HTML5 canvas tag to present the search results in a  graphical and intuitive way embedded in a PHP powered web site.  Another line was the design of data processing architecture for a  recommendation system using CouchDB as persistence layer.    *(Technologies: PHP - Python - Java - HTML and CSS - MySQL  - JavaScript - jQuery - Processing.js) Freelance Developer Madrid, ES March 2007 to April 2009 Madrid)  Small and medium software companies in Madrid  Area: Freelance Software consulting    Responsibilities:  As a freelance I was involved in many projects, but most frequent  activities were:  - LAMP development on custom ERP/CRM solutions.  - Linux Infrastructure security hardening, critical system  monitoring, and deploying data backup solutions.  - Teaching courses on Linux/Unix security and administration for private Academies.    *(Technologies: PHP - Python - HTML and CSS - MySQL -  Linux)  Researcher Grant Centro Nacional de Biotecnología. CNB. (Madrid)  Two short stayings of 3 Centro de Estudios Científicos del CSIC  month each during 2005 Area: Computational Systems Biology Group and 2007  Responsibilities:  I was awarded with a Spanish Government's Research Grant to come to Spain to work for a 6 months period at the National Center of Biotechnology (CNB) on the Computational Systems Biology  Group (CNB-CSIC), under the supervision of Dr. Florencio Pazos.  The work subject was to develop a Java program for visualization of large protein networks.    *(Technologies: Java - OpenGL - XML processing - Linux) Scienti c Researcher Centro Nacional de Bioinformática May 2003 to December 2006 3 years BIOINFO. (Cuba)  Scientific Research Center for Pharmaceutical Industry.  Area: Software development and research in protein modeling    Responsibilities:  Development of programs for scientific data treatment, prediction and visualization. Use of machine Learning Techniques for prediction problems.  Also I worked as consultant for other scientific centers which needed guidance on how to store and process huge amounts of  biological data coming out of automated biological experiments.    *(Technologies: C - Python - Java - XML processing - MySQL -  Linux) Scienti c Researcher Centro de Ingeniería Genética September 2000 to May 2003 y  3 years Biotecnología. CIGB. (Cuba)  Pharmaceutical Industry.  Area: Software development and research in protein modeling    Responsibilities:  Development of algorithmic solutions for problems arising in biological data studies, like dynamical programming of sequence  alignment of proteins or DNA, or geometrical modeling of protein  folding and docking in 3D space.  Also use of Machine Learning techniques (specially supervised  learning like Neural Nets and Support Vector Machines) for building predictors of molecular binding.    *(Technologies: C - Python - Java - Linux)  Technical Pro ciency    Python Strong experince with Python for a wide range of tasks,  Level: Advanced from doing quick and dirty data Jujutsu, to building  multiprocessing systems.  My experience with the Django framework has mostly  involved the development of simple Rest APIs.    Web programming Experience developing server side web apps with  Python, MySQL, Ajax, MySQL+(PHP || Python). Also some experience in jQuery, HTML, CSS, frontend web programming using Ajax, Javascript and  Processing.js jQuery.  Level: Medium    Java SE Java desktop Apps for graphical presentation of complex  Level: Medium scienti9c data using JavaDD and J;GL libs.  Datamining with Machine learning using the algorithms  collection of Weka software suite.    C Development of high performance scienti9c programs in  Level: Medium C using the GNU environment: GCC+vi+gmake+gdb.    Linux System Wide experience in installation, con9guration and  Administration management of Linux services: Apache, MySQL,  Level: Medium net9lter, etc. Also experienced deploying monitoring and backup systems.  In depth experience with common Linux distros: Debian,  RedHat, Suse.  Familiarity with Amazon ECD platform to create failure- tolerant and scalable service infrastructures.  Good level of bash to automate tasks, make start/stop  scripts, set cron jobs, etc. Some use of Perl. Education Bachelor's in Nuclear Physics Instituto Superior de Ciencias y Tecnología Skills Java, C, Python, Linux Links https://github.com/alfre2v