Lead QA Engineer, DevOps, Senior Python Engineer Lead QA Engineer, DevOps, Senior <span class="hl">Python</span> Engineer Lead QA Engineer, DevOps, Senior Python Engineer New Hyde Park, NY Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Lead QA Engineer, DevOps, Senior Python Engineer ADP Inc - New York, NY 2014 to 2014 Created a reusable gem (library) for a Ruby testing framework used for API and UI RSpec tests. Wrote API/UI tests for a node.js based application using Selenium grid (in CI environment using Jenkins jobs), or Selenium standalone (in developer environment). Created Ruby builders for JSON metadata and Page Objects for testing the new features.  Wrote Jasmine-node tests for server side nodejs persistence layer using Pivotal Gemfire and Mongo as nosql (key-value and document) databases.  Was instrumental in introducing Docker and container technology in splitting big monolithic application in micro-services. Used Consul, Swarm and docker UCP technologies as infrastructure for service discovery and improved reliability and scalability of our micro-services in a private AWS based cloud using Bracket encryption framework. Hooked our Ansible deployment framework with Datadog using Python scripts for better monitoring automated deployments (using Jenkins CI Job Dsl), and Docker disk space usage.  Developed a Flask application using python pydot to create an oriented graph of service dependencies and showing nodes (services) in different colors based on their health check from Consul.  Looking how to use python machine learning for capacity planning, and also for automated problem resolution when some services fail. Senior Python Engineer DealerTrack - Lake Success, NY 2013 to 2014 Working on a Python Django application for automotive retail industry. Wrote unit tests using mocks, functional and integration tests using database fixtures and nose Python testing software. Looking how to integrate web sockets with the existing application. Senior Software Engineer Intel - Santa Clara, CA 2013 to 2013 Working on continuous build (CI) and test integration software using Jenkins automated job execution, integrating it with Git Subversion, and Bugzilla bug tracking system. Publish created artifacts (java and C++ libraries) on Nexus repository for further deployment. Evaluated JIRA for replacing Bugzilla for bug and feature tracking. Created a Bugzilla report for upper management with bugs assigned by priority per group and group members using jQuery treetable widget and a Python webpy REST-ful back end. Looking how to put a Django front-end to a Nagios alerting system. Write unit tests using Django client and functional tests using Selenium. Senior Software Engineer The New York Times - New York, NY 2011 to 2013 Working on e-commerce platform for digital subscriptions - mostly back-end, write python ETL scripts to move data from an obsolete system using MySQL database to our core system using Oracle 11g database. Write python scripts to automate some data manipulation tasks in existing database, write PL/SQL store procedures, PHP feeds from our production database to a data warehouse, look into improving release and deployment of our software on production, staging, and development environments that now is done using Hudson jobs and a proprietary system. Resurrected and simplified an over-engineered BDD platform using Cucumber by replacing a custom ORM mapper with ActiveRecord. Evaluate an existing python nose based testing platform for integration tests and find the best way to use it for our system. Created python scripts that automatically unsubscribed about 1M users from an old offer chain to a new offer chain during a 25 days run. Created a Ruby on Rails frontend to our Oracle database to better manage offer chains. Senior Software Engineer VMWARE - Palo Alto, CA 2011 to 2011 Responsible for maintaining and developing new features for a continuous build and test system based on Python's Django web framework. Worked on enhancing serviceability and convergence of existing tools into one more generic framework where developers can add their own plug-ins in order to validate, build and test their code. Used jQuery for enhancing functionality and usability of web pages. Integrated latest haystack/whoosh python search engine with existing application. Used Selenium for some of the functional tests. Software Application Developer University of California at San Francisco - San Francisco, CA 2009 to 2011 Responsible for maintaining and developing the software infrastructure for a data warehouse for patient physiology, labs, medication and outcome data. Enhanced Python ETL (extract/transform/load) scripts to populate the data warehouse in a Linux/MySQL environment, modified the Ruby on Rails front end application for new requirements, and developed a RESTful web services platform to link various data sources, using web.py. Developed new Ruby on Rails applications for data mining, reporting, and presentation. Used jQuery and CSS with Rails to create dynamic nested forms and improve presentation. By carefully redesigning the data entry forms, improved data entry time from 20 minutes to less then 1 minute per data set. Used Rspec for functional testing. Started evaluating Node.js and CouchDB for future projects. Started working on an experimental animal database application using python's Django web framework. Software Engineer KLA-TENCOR - San Jose, CA 1999 to 2009 4  Responsible for developing the software infrastructure for a silicon wafer inspection tool. Redesigned the tool configuration/calibration database for storing Java objects. Implemented a data service for C# GUI components bridged them with core Java application using JMS. Thanks to my outstanding work on the framework components and the software integration, I was promoted to the algorithms group where I helped develop new algorithms for defect detection, translate them into C code from Matlab, optimize them for speed, and integrate them with the Java core components. Created build/test environment using Python and Perl (for test automation), Makefiles (for builds), and ClearCase version control systems.  Instrumental in winning a head-to-head competition with Applied Materials and Hitachi by implementing the inspection of partial printed dies on silicon wafers. This year-long project involved new hardware and software; Developed the software component using Java, C++ and C. Tested Java code with Junit and provided Python scripts for functional and integration testing. Developed Python scripts for running tool diagnostics.  Increased productivity of the algorithm group by developing a virtual wafer inspector as opposed to the real wafer inspector. Designed data access paths and initial benchmarks. Used Python for rapid prototyping the system, and wrote a disk usage report generator in Bash and Perl. Stored the benchmark results in a MySQL database and published the results on internal web site using Ruby on Rails and Ajax. In the process also evaluated Python's Django  Improved inspection tool's reliability by designing a publish/subscribe event service for Java components built on top of Java JMS. Integrated JBoss into current software transforming the application into a JMX component. Responsible for evaluating Jboss, BEA WebLogic and Tomcat. Analyzed ways to transform the components to EJBs; evaluated Spring and Hibernate. Prototyped a SOA implementation aimed at linking together the different inspection tools in FAB.  Replaced obsolete build scripts and introduced Makefiles for daily builds that enabled the company to obtain CMM level 2. Optimized Java files' compilation and developed Python and Perl scripts for test automation.  Reduced cap-costs by $10,000 per tool in licensing fees; researched and implemented a new system which rendered the database's speed 10 times faster. Responsible for the evaluation of the databases such as MySQL and Oracle. Senior Software Engineer ERICSSON RESEARCH CANADA - Montréal, QC 1997 to 1999 Responsible for developing and improving the performance of a cellular network configuration software.  • Obtained faster statistics by redesigning the cellular network performance database and created a few Data Marts using Sybase and Data Warehouse Architect. Used table partitioning to improve performance. Used CORBA and Java RMI to link the components.  • Designed the formula editing/calculation and a rule engine GUI for the field engineers utilizing Java CC parser and postfix (polish) notation. Software Application Developer CLAREMONT GROUP CANADA - Montréal, QC 1995 to 1997 Responsible for the creation of Data Warehouses and Data Marts for Telecoms. Designed and implemented database access components in C++ under UNIX HP. Utilized Oracle, Sybase and MS SQL Server databases daily. Improved existing database schema; sped up the operations by using stored procedures and triggers.  Developed the infrastructure using Oracle database; analyzed, designed and implemented reusable software components using C++ under UNIX for a large telecommunication project aimed at billing 900 numbers for AT&T. Created the relevant PL/SQL packages and database triggers, and built an updatable data warehouse.  Improved report generation time from 36 hours to 30 minutes by moving a billing application from Microsoft SQL Server and Windows NT to HP-UX and Informix. Analyst, Programmer LOGICAL SYSTEM Co, LINEA UFFICIO - Rome, IT 1991 to 1995 Responsible for programming the inventory management and the communication software for the sales and the management divisions for POS utilizing C and Clipper.  Installed client-server software on Novell NetWare networks for turnkey systems and configured modem/com software (for updating databases with daily pricing information and receiving daily sales figures). Education Masters in Electrical Engineering Polytechnic Institute Skills DATABASES (10+ years), PYTHON (8 years), Ruby (5 years), DJANGO (3 years), MYSQL (5 years) Additional Information • Operating systems: Linux, MacOSX, Widows, HP and Sun Unix, MS-DOS.  • Software / Databases: Ruby, Python, Java, JavaScript, Ajax, Rails, Django, Ansible, SOA, Perl, HTML, XML, PHP, C/C++; Linux/UNIX programs and shells; Application servers: JBoss , Tomcat, Apache, nginx; SCM software: Git, Subversion, ClearCase; databases: MySQL, MongoDB, CouchBase, Oracle with PL/SQL, Redis, MS SQL Server, Sybase, Informix with ESQL/C.