Application Support Analyst/ Python Developer Application Support Analyst/<span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> SQL/ Python Developer/Application Support Analyst Manhattan, NY Substantial expert experience examining, resolving, testing, monitoring and reporting complex problems using advanced technical knowledge of systems  and applications. Earned a reputation with senior management as a highly analytical, detail-oriented, strategic and tactical thinker, quantitative problem  solver, team player and individual contributor with a unique ability to work cross-functionally and entrepreneurially in deadline-driven environments.  Excellent communications skills both written and oral. Consistently ranked and compensated at top of peer group. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Application Support Analyst/ Python Developer UBS - New York, NY September 2014 to Present Participate in firm wide infrastructure shutdown by stopping and starting processes used by research publishing team and coordinating testing of application with global level one support team.  • Determine how clients receive published research notes and identify ways publications can be efficiently delivered externally by querying Oracle  backend for in-house CRM application.  • Wrote SQL queries to determine why a particular client contact received a particular research note by matching contact's interests and the research  note's classification.  • Conduct BC/DR testing for content distribution component of an enterprise solution used by equity analysts to author and distribute notes authored by equity analysts.  • Troubleshoot issues relating to sending blast voicemails to external client by writing Python script to identify impacted users' ids in log files in a Unix  environment.  • Analyze use of disk space by application and make recommendations pertinent to application server upgrade.  • Research and approve enterprise application changes that impact equity research analysts.  • Schedule migration of Citrix servers for research advisory team from XenApp 6.0 to XenApp 6.5.  • Write test cases for research advisory team's applications in conjunction with upgrading Citrix Servers to XenApp 6.5.  • Coordinate allocation of QA resources to validate XenApp 6.5 migration in UAT environment. Application Support Analyst/SQL/ Python Developer HEDGESERV CORPORATION - New York, NY February 2010 to August 2014 Configure fund administration application environments for demonstrations and new clients by integrating master repository of instruments,  portfolios, and user accounts with initialization environments.  • Developed Python script to parse through log files to identify application failures.  • Research and resolve issues relating to internal and external clients being unable to utilize features of fund administration application.  • Interface with internal users to write a Python script that reconciles external and internal business data.  • Augment repository of Visual Basic functions used by all transformation maps (ETL) to more efficiently develop maps.  • Developed a variety of transformation maps used across all external client environments to price financial instruments, import and export trades, and generate reports for external clients.  • Wrote SQL queries that are called by transformation maps in order to determine instrument id for a given trade using identifiers such as RIC, ISIN, or client instrument ID.  • Wrote SQL queries to determine if a particular trade has been written to the general ledger (GL) against SQL Server database.  • Created Python program to validate variables in transformation maps and generate XML workflows to execute transformation maps.  • Wrote Python script that uses Front Arena API to update additional information such as client code and fund code on portfolios and trades.  • Interview job candidates on past work experiences and general programming concepts such as recursion, loops, and object oriented principles.  • Develop trade filters based upon product type, portfolio, and trade status used both internally and externally when viewing positions in Front Arena. Associate/Risk Finance Data Warehouse (RFDW) IT BARCLAYS CAPITAL - New York, NY September 2009 to January 2010 Developed Python script to validate trade, valuation, and cash flow data for interest rate swaps being transformed to Oracle database according to appropriate business rules.  • Formulated SQL scripts using Toad for Oracle to identify active books to be used for input data set for data warehouse system integration testing.  • Wrote test cases to confirm that data warehouse accurately reports to downstream applications when incoming data has been updated.  • Identified testing scenarios for how downstream applications may query data warehouse to procure trade information for various fixed income and derivative products.  • Conducted end-to-end testing for Unix based integration environment to make sure that trade, cash flow, and valuation data for various fixed income and derivative products can be ingested into Oracle database and queried.  • Interface with quality assurance team in Singapore every morning to discuss changes to data warehouse application and functionalities of data  warehouse application to be tested. Associate/Application Support Delivery (ASD) JPMORGAN ALTERNATIVE ASSET MANAGEMENT - New York, NY April 2006 to August 2009 Solve problems where prior month positions in portfolio management were being inadvertently deleted by analyzing stored procedures in MS SQL  Server.  • Propose changes to the way cash flow entries are presented in portfolio management application to make it easier for finance to pinpoint entries that  need to be changed by creating prototypes using Visual Basic.  • Develop quick SQL fixes to application errors in order to allow business continuity for users.  • Interface with external vendors to determine how to best deploy off the shelf applications to business users.  • Analyze application issues reported by users to determine whether they are program bugs or user mistakes.  • Trace portfolio management application in C# and Visual Basic using Visual Studio to identify lines where error is occurring in code and report to developers.  • Review test cases provided by developers to make sure applications being migrated to production are adequately tested.  • Examine support documents provided by developers to make sure sufficient information has been provided to support team for application handover.  • Coordinate disaster recovery testing of applications used by fund of fund group and various technology groups. Technical Associate/Batch Management/MBS Controllers IT CREDIT SUISSE FIRST BOSTON - New York, NY July 2001 to March 2006 Generated reports for structured product controllers detailing month end profit and loss values and monthly provision in Crystal Reports.  • Modified stored procedures in MS SQL Server in order to deliver users data unavailable via position reporting application.  • Tested position reporting system in a UAT environment and compare its results against those produced in production.  • Coordinated the migration of MS Project 2003 in structured product controllers IT group by restoring existing project plans in MS Project 2003 and making sure the documents can be accessed by other group members.  • Determined how to split up Control-M jobs from overnight cycle in order for position reporting system to be available to users at an earlier time than  was available.  • Computed difference between front office and back office positions for various mortgage products daily using an MS Access application.  • Supported application performing price testing on commercial and residential mortgages using past loan data.  • Gathered daily metrics recording night cycle completion time, number of positions processed, and time at which last feed received.  • Automated conversion process of Autosys and Cron batch cycles to Control-M utilizing Perl and Excel.  • Documented batch job descriptions and appropriate escalation steps if night cycle comprised of Control-M jobs fails.  • Consolidated New York and London Control-M development environments to expand coverage for supported applications.  • Identified and interconnected dependent batch cycles in Control-M to make most efficient use of resources and time. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science Fu Foundation School of Engineering May 2001 COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY - New York, NY Skills Python Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Programming Languages: SQL, VBA, Visual Basic, C#, Python, Swift, HTML, VBScript, JavaScript (Node.js), Java, Perl, HTML  Database Systems: MS SQL Server 2000, Sybase, Oracle, MongoDB  Operating System: Windows 95/98/NT/2000/ME/XP, Unix  Applications: MS Office, Crystal Reports, Business Objects, Front Arena, Pervasive, Explorer, Mathematica, Control-M, Autosys,  Tidal, Informatica Workflow Monitor, MQ Queue Scanner, Microsoft Sharepoint