Web Application Developer Web Application <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Application Developer New York, NY Full stack Developer with 3 years of extensive hands-on experience in Python. Finance Background. Dedicated to contribute immediately in all aspects of front and back-end of the development life cycle and across the software stack. Bringing strong understanding of algorithms, data structures, and object oriented programming. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Application Developer BestReceivable Co - Dumont, NJ April 2016 to April 2016 Utilizing Django-REST-Framework develop back-end and front-end of web application for a collection industry. Python developer Byte Academy - New York, NY September 2015 to March 2016 • Built a Financial planning application from original idea. Based on User's risk tolerance and financial goals app proposes a Model Investment Portfolio. Also, application compares User's current Investment Portfolio to suggested Model Portfolio on a basis of risk and volatility measures.  • Created a Model-View-Controller application that lets the Users view their investment portfolio, trade stocks, trace the amount they have earned or lost, the amount of liquid cash they have available, etc.  • Learned important Data Science and Object-oriented programming concepts together with full stack development utilizing Python, Django and JavaScript as the programming languages. Developer, Managing Partner A-BIT Secure - ?????? January 2014 to September 2015 Moscow, RF  • Provide internet and networking security services related to software, hardware, databases, Web resources, networks and enterprise systems to enterprises and corporate clients.  • Check for security violations, install protection software and take action against cyber-attacks.  • Develop web platforms using Python and Django.  • As a Managing Partner perform budgeting and financial management. Fundamental Investment Analyst Ardan Wealth Management - ?????? December 2012 to March 2014 Moscow, RF  • Created and maintained up-to-date detailed corporate finance Excel models.  • Performed stock valuations utilizing Discounted cash flow analysis.  • Assisted in portfolio management. Head of Private Wealth Russian Agricultural Bank - ?????? July 2010 to December 2012 office Moscow, RF  • Drove over $250 mill. in new AUM of private clients in a matter of 18 months.  • Managed private clients assets.  • Presented Structured products to Ultra High Net Worth clients and advised on implementation Investment Strategist, Managing Partner Asset management company Conclav Capital - ?????? September 2007 to November 2009 Moscow, RF  • Launched a start-up Hedge Fund with emphasis in Emerging Markets and Frontier markets.  • Based on Top-down analysis performed asset allocation and portfolio management.  • Identified opportunity for a collective investments business in Kazakhstan and founded a new fully licensed Mutual Fund company in Alma-Aty. Head of Private Banking Division Russian Development Bank - ?????? September 2005 to July 2007 Moscow, RF  • Led the Team of 4 financial advisors, coached them to identify client needs and make recommendations for clients to achieve investment goals and objectives.  • Developed value add programs on investment topics to win business and create new leads. Financial Consultant Asset Management Company Quirinus Capital LLC - New York, NY July 2001 to January 2004 Recommended investment products and services that were suitable for prospects and clients based on their objectives, resources, time horizon, risk profile and preferences. Financial Consultant Merrill Lynch - New York, NY December 1999 to June 2001 Started as an Intern and later joined the team of Vice president managing $500 mill. Education Master of Science in Finance Adelphi University - Garden City, NY 2000 Skills Python (3 years), Django (2 years), Restful API (1 year), HTML 5 (3 years), Javascript (1 year), Pandas (1 year), Numpy (1 year) Links http://artyudin.com https://github.com/artyudin