Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer San Francisco Bay Area, CA • Over 7+ years of experience as a Web Application Developer and Software Engineer using Python, Django.  • Hands-on-experience on python web application development using Django framework and front-end technologies like HTML, JavaScript, CSS for dynamic UI design.  • Experience with data science toolkits, machine learning techniques and modeling tools such as Python libraries like NumPy, Pandas and SciPy, Matplotlib.  • Experience with Visualization Tools like Tableau, statistical tool like SAS and excellent knowledge on advanced MS Excel.  • Hands-on experience using various python packages/libraries on data visualization, manipulation, joining data, exploratory data analysis.  • Good experience in statistics skills such as distributions, statistical testing, regression, Hypothesis Testing, ANOVA, Factor Analysis, Time Series Analysis, and Probability Distributions.  • Experience in developing python scripts for automation and performing functional tests and data validation.  • Good experience with Amazon web Services AWS.  • Excellent knowledge of OOPS, Multi-Threading and Collections concepts and in Python.  • Strong knowledge of database concepts and both SQL and non-SQL databases.  • Excellent debugging, mathematical, problem solving and optimization skills.  • Worked on SQL reporting and OBIEE analytics and Reporting Work Experience Python Developer P&G - Sacramento, CA July 2015 to February 2017 To support the largest FMCG companies like Procter & Gamble and Unilever to know their Product and Market Standards. Data's received from multiple vendors and we validate the inputs and we collected it to generate a report for all the ASIA countries.    Responsibilities:  • Developed code in Python, MySQL to implement new and changes in functionality.  • Worked on development and testing of the application and various releases.  • Wrote Python Scripts to handled REST API's to retrieve Network data from data centers  • Creating data model for storing the data in database.  • Importing data from FTP offloads to Database using Python scripts.  • Writing ETL scripts in Python for SQL query execution and Writing SQL scripts and validating the data. Write unit testing for testing purposes.  • Writing Python module, to extract data from vendors in JSON format.  • Create data models in Python to store data from various sources.  • Interpreting raw data using a variety of tools ( Python, STATA or Excel Data Analysis Toolpak), algorithms, and statistical/econometric models (including regression techniques, decision trees, etc.) to capture the bigger picture of the business.  • Communicating findings through data visualization techniques and software (Excel, R, Python or Tableau, depending on needs) to produce results and reports for strategy and decision-making purposes.  • Hands on exposure to creating APIS/modules to consume data from REST endpoints and cleansing the data and store it in database.  • Knowledge in creating applications with Python and Django.  • Writing SQL queries for visualization and reporting systems. Good experience in visualization tool Tableau.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django1.4, AWS EC2, MySQL, Windows, Linux, HTML, CSS, JQuery, JavaScript, Apache, Linux. Software Engineer IPage Infotech March 2012 to June 2015 Worked on Telecom based applications.    Responsibilities:  • Provide input into developing and modifying systems to meet client needs and develop business specifications to support these modifications.  • Performing Business Requirement Study in Financials and modeling Future Process Model, Preparation of all required and User Manuals, Conducting CRP, UAT and User Training for implementations  • Used HTML, CSS, JQuery, JSON and Javascript for front-end applications.  • Managed our servers in development, testing, certification and production.  • Implemented locking mechanisms using multi-threading functionality.  • Used Python, JQuery, JavaScript and JSON at the front end.  • Used python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Worked on SQL and Oracle OBIEE reporting and Analytics  • Identify and reconcile errors in client data to ensure accurate business requirements.  • Draft and maintain business requirements and align them with functional and technical requirements.  Environment: Python, HTML, CSS, MySQL, Oracle, Linux and Windows Skills AJAX (Less than 1 year), Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (3 years), Apache (3 years), AWS (3 years), Django. (3 years), EC2 (3 years), GIT (2 years), HTML (4 years), IIS (Less than 1 year), INTERNET INFORMATION SERVICES (Less than 1 year), JavaScript (4 years), JSON (4 years), Linux (4 years), Linux/Unix (Less than 1 year), MAC (Less than 1 year), MAC OS (Less than 1 year), MySQL (4 years), Python (4 years), SQL (4 years), UNIX (2 years)