Freelance Freelance Santa Clara, CA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Freelance Great Star Theatre 2016 to Present Theatrical Technician Great Star Theater February 2016 to March 2016 Research/Upgrade Security cameras & DVR, DDNS. Software Quality Engineer and Python Developer Tech Mahindra - Mountain View, CA 2014 to 2015 I specialized in continuous testing and triage of mass storage device drivers and utilities against a fleet of up to 2000 remote Linux/Ubuntu systems. I authored and ported  Autotest automation scripts during its transition to newer proprietary systems. I primarily  used Python 2.7x and bash with some C++ to automate performance, data integrity and feature verification testing against Solid-State Drives. These tests required extensive  support for operation across restarts and crashes, as the test units were located over seas. Tests included Garbage Collection, Wear Leveling, Sparing, Formatting and  Recovery. Extensive integration with PostgreSQL and Excel was necessary for tracking and maintaining bad blocks during testing. Automatic reporting was implemented through Django and pyqtgraph. I was also tasked with regularly qualifying kernel and tool  set builds for my components, as well as overflow from a variety of other groups. A/V Production Manager Unusual Productions - San Francisco, CA 2011 to 2014 Automation tools used in production were Max/MSP, Quartz Composer, Adobe  Director/Lingo and Python (pyqtgraph /pyQt) My activities involved interactive multimedia  installations, music compositions, stage management and construction for a number of local theater productions and themed nightclubs. Additional rotations as DJ, Sys-admin and facilities security as needed. Mass Storage SQA Engineer Apple Computer - Cupertino, CA 2000 to 2012 Qualification and regression testing of Apple internal and third party Mass Storage  drivers for consumer Desktop and Portable computers. Highlights included lab setup and maintenance, remote automated installation and configuration, Test Design, Test  Planning, Tool Authoring, automated testing and reporting, result database design,  debugging and failure analysis. I authored Test Plans for AHCI, SATA, Thunderbolt,  USB and FireWire. I was also the QA Lead for the SATA Port Multiplier and Thunderbolt  HSIO projects for Consumer Desktop and Portables, as well as the Mass Storage QA  Lead for AppleTV. I authored and maintained RollCall, the groups main IOKit Mass  Storage discovery probe developed in Objective-C. It was Notification based,  asynchronous and reentrant for operation across Restart and Sleep. It had a GUI,  emailed on events and uploaded/compared device properties with a postgreSQL  database. It completely removed human error by reading from devices directly. Education De Anza College 2007 to 2009 Skills TESTING (10+ years), DATABASE (10+ years), DATABASE DESIGN (10+ years), FireWire (10+ years), SATA (10+ years) Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/michael-gerard-2a763146 Additional Information Technologies: SSD, PCIe, NVMe, SATA, SCSI, USB, FireWire, ATA, ATAPI.  DVD, CDR, DVD-RAM, Magneto-Optical, SSH, Remote Desktop.  Testing: White/Black Box, Regression,  Automation, Triage, Test Plans,  Database Design, Agile Methodologies, Automated Reporting  and Metrics, Protocol Analyzers (SATA/USB/SCSI/HSIO).    LinkedIn Profile: www.linkedin.com/in/michael-gerard-2a763146