Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Ameriprise Insurance Minneapolis, MN Work Experience Python Developer Ameriprise Insurance - Minneapolis, MN July 2018 to Present Ameriprise Financial Inc. headquarters is located in Minneapolis, Minnesota. They work closely with their clients to provide financial planning, products and services that include wealth management, asset management, insurance, annuities, and estate planning. For clients with external projects, Ameriprise Financial Inc. will create electronic forms to assist with their clients needs for financial and retirement plans. Ameriprise Financial Inc. offers two optional methods of signature services, electronic signature and topaz pad signature. In addition, clients will receive their own Advisor Associate who is dedicated in fulfilling all service needs and requests.  Responsibilities:  • Gathered and analyzed user or business requirements as well as provided support in programming, developing, and maintaining web-based applications, websites as well as cross platform desktop GUI based applications using Python, MySQL, and HTML languages, including Django and Flask frameworks.  • Implemented code in python to retrieve and manipulate data.  • Used Django database API's to access database objects.  • Handled the security contents and issues.  • Created and modified required views/tables/triggers using MySQL and worked on database bug fixes.  • Experience solving the compatibility issues.  • Developed HTML, CSS and JavaScript to present GUI.  • Worked with version control GIT for the application to accumulate all the work done by team members. Python Developer Adobe - San Jose, CA June 2016 to June 2018 The Adobe Digital Media segment offers Creative Cloud, which is a subscription service that allows members to download and install the latest versions of its creative products, such as Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Illustrator, Adobe Premiere Pro, Adobe Photoshop, Lightroom and Adobe InDesign. Involved in developing and implementation of the web application using Python to manage subscriptions and allow customers representative to serve customer better.    Responsibilities:  • Participating in requirement assembling, analyzing project period in recording business  requirement by meeting with internet marketing team and utilizing agile and scrum  methodologies.  • Using Django class based view, created several views and forms for handling the order  • management.  • Integrated Django Rest Framework in project to make date serialized efficiently.  • Successfully worked on the third party libraries like Pandas and Pickle.  • Implemented solutions to prevent Cross Site Scripting, CSRF and SQL injection for security and data protection.  • Experienced Django debugging toolbar to analyze query timing and make them faster.  • Writing modules in python to connect to MongoDB and doing CRUD operations with MongoDB.  • Used GIT as version control system for the application.  • Integrated with MongoDB for retrieving the data in the form of JSON using Ajax.  • Performed unit testing to test functionally utilizing Pyunit.  • For creating use cases, bug tracking and project monitoring purposes used JIRA. Python Developer The Home Depot - Atlanta, GA April 2015 to March 2016 The Home Depot is the world's largest home improvement retailer stores U.S., Canada and Mexico. Interconnected with an e-commerce business that offers more than one million products for the DIY customer, professional contractors, and the industry's largest installation business for the customer. Worked on the Hardwar tools department for sales progression tool responsible for keeping in check the progress of retailers by analyzing the sales and profits. The tool offers real-time reports on cash flow, inventory, customer buying behavior and profitability.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in requirements gathering, Analysis, Development and Testing using Agile  Methodology.  • Parsed JSON data for backend solutions.  • Worked with different version control like GIT, SVN.  • Database manipulation is done by using Django database API along with PostgreSQL.  • UnitTest python library was used for testing many programs on python and other codes.  • Developed remote integration using with third party platforms by using RESTful web services.  • Used python module named Pandas for data manipulation.  • Using version tool Github with Jenkins to accumulate all the work done by team members.  • Worked on frontend technologies like HTML, CSS and Bootstrap. Education Bachelor's Skills C++, DJANGO, Git, HTML, PYTHON Additional Information • 4+ years of experience as a Web/Application Developer and designing databases and Backend Technologies. Experienced in developing web applications and implementing Model View Template (MVT) architecture using Python, Django.  • Design and Developed Web Services using Python Django and Flask Frameworks.  Familiar with Django's ORM library.  • Experience in developing software in Python using libraries like NumPy, SciPy, Pickle to drive improvements throughout entire software development lifecycle.  • Expert at parsing, scripting, logging, migrating data and debugging.  • Sound knowledge of relational databases including MySQL, Oracle SQL and non-relational database using Mongo db.  • Worked on various IDE: PyCharm, Sublime and Python IDLE.  • Experienced in working with various Development tools like PyCharm, Sublime Text,  Eclipse, NetBeans and Atom.  • Experience with cloud services like amazon AWS.  • Ability working with version control tools such as Git and SVN.  • Knowledge in Linux Bash Scripting and PEP guidelines in python.  • Sound experience in Object Oriented Programming using concepts like Multi-Threading,  Exception Handling and Collections.  • Good documentation skills with the ability to meet deadlines and can work in a cross functional environment.    TECHNICAL SKILLS    Programming Languages: Python, C++, HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, SQL  Database & Servers: SQLite3, MySQL, MongoDB, PostgreSQL  Web Frameworks: Django, FLASK  Version Controls: SVN, GIT  Development/Application: PyCharm, Sublime Text, Eclipse, NetBeans and Atom  Tool