Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Fresenius Medical Care Burlington, MA ? Overall 3+ years of experience in developing web-based applications, software development and design using Python, Django, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, jQuery and Angular JS.  ? Experience on Django, Python web frameworks, Object Oriented Programming (OOPS) concepts using Python, Django.  ? Proficient in SQL databases Postgre SQL, MYSQL, Oracle and no SQL databases MongoDB.  ? Created a Python, Django web-based application using python scripting for data processing and MySQL for database, HTML, CSS, jQuery for data visualization.  ? Aware of test-driven development (TDD) and Agile/Scrum methodologies.  ? Expertise in MVW frameworks like Django, Angular JS, JavaScript, jQuery and Node JS.  ? Experience in Developing Web services with Python Programming Language.  ? Experience in Establishing of applications in web services with protocols SOAP, REST.  ? Expertise in Object Oriented Design and Coding.  ? Experience in MVC/MVT frameworks like Django, Flask and Pyramid.  ? We used jQuery, JavaScript and Json at the Front End.  ? Experience in using various version systems like GitHub enterprise.  ? Experience in programming frame works such as Turtle graphics and CMD.  ? Knowledge on Linux Operating system    Environment: Python, Django, Agile, CSS3, HTML5, HTTP, JSON JavaScript, SQL, AWS, REST, Shell Scripting, Sublime, PyCharm, Web services, XHTML, XML, PHP, LINUX, WINDOWS, UNIX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Fresenius Medical Care - Lexington, MA December 2015 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Developed web applications and RESTful web services and APIs using Python, Django,   ? Created python and Bash tools to increase the efficiency of the call center application system and operations.  ? Well versed with configuration management policies and practices with regards to SDLC along with automation by using scripting languages like Shell/ Python Scripting  ? Gathered all requirements for developing and analyzing requirements of projects.  ? Working on Claims analysing and making reports using python libraries (Numpy, Pandas, Matplotlib).  ? Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  ? Involved in front end and utilized Bootstrap and Angular.js for page design.  ? Used PyQuery for selecting Particular DOM elements when reading HTML.  ? Exported/imported data from different data sources using SQL Server Management Studio.  ? Designed a fully automated Continuous Integration system using Git, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in python and Bash  ? Written Complex SQL queries using Joins and corelated subqueries.  ? Rewrite existing java application in python module to deliver certain format of data.  ? Handled all the client-side validation using JavaScript.  ? Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  ? Build development environment with JIRA.  ? Web pages on the internet are generated by servers running LINUX.  ? Experience in using Git, GitHub and deploying them.  ? Added several options to the application to choose the algorithm for data and address generation.  ? Using Subversion control tool to coordinate team-development.  ? Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.    Environment: Python2.7, Python 3.7, Django 2.0, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, Numpy, Pandas, Matplotlib, MySQL, Oracle DB, LINUX, BASH, SQL, GITHUB, Oracle DB, Jenkins. Education Master of Science in Computer Science University of Illinois - Springfield, IL 2015 Skills C++, DJANGO, Git, JAVASCRIPT Certifications/Licenses Certified Python Programmer by Python Institute