Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer Fremont, CA • Around 5 years of strong experience as a Software Engineer and Python Developer.  • Extensive experience in Python, Django framework in developing web-based applications.  • Worked with python libraries like NumPy, Pandas, SciPy.  • Good Knowledge on Machine Learning Concepts like Regression, Classification and Clustering algorithms, Dimensionality reduction, boosting and Basic knowledge on Natural Language Processing.  • Familiar with Data Processing such as Data cleaning, Data parsing and Data analysis and Python modules such as requests, Beautiful Soup, urllib.  • Strong Knowledge on Distributed Systems concepts (Remote Procedure Call, Transactions and Concurrency, Mutual Exclusion, Consistency, Distributed Hash Table, Snapshot Algorithms).  • Familiar with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services.  • Proficient in writing SQL queries, Tables, Views, functions, Stored Procedures, Triggers on MYSQL and PostgreSQL.  • Worked on Agile/Scrum methodologies.  • Good Experience in Linux Bash scripting, Linux Commands and following PEP8 Guidelines in Python.  • Skilled in debugging/troubleshooting issues in complex applications.  • Strong Knowledge of Data Structures, Algorithms, and Design Patterns.  • Experience with full development life cycle tools like Git, Jenkins, Ant.  • Highly motivated and detail-oriented python programmer with ability to learn quickly and apply new tools and technology. Work Experience Python Developer American Airlines - Phoenix, AZ June 2018 to June 2018 Responsibilities:  • Involved in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing, Implementation and support.  • Worked on Libraries like Pandas, NumPy, SciPy for data manipulation and analysis.  • Good in using Python features: Python Data Structures, Lambda Expressions, PEP8 standardization.  • Familiar with three main processes: Data Crawling, Data Parsing and Data Analysis.  • Experience in writing Complex Queries, Sub Queries, Stored Procedures and Triggers.  • Built database structure and wrote PostgreSQL queries.  • Experienced and used Test Driven Development in the development of the code.  • Python Unit test library was used for testing many programs on Python and other codes.  • Developed web services that make database calls for inserts, updates, and select queries.  • Excellent Experience and knowledge in using XML, Json, REST web Service for inter operable software applications.  • Worked on creating the Docker containers and Docker consoles for managing the application life cycle.  • Setup Docker on Linux and configure Jenkins to run under Docker host.  • Worked as part of an Agile/Scrum based development team and exposed to TDD approach in developing applications.  Environment: Python 3.6, Pandas, NumPy, PyCharm Git, Agile, Jenkins, PostgreSQL, Visual Studio Code, Linux (Ubuntu). Python Developer T Mobile - Atlanta, GA June 2017 to April 2018 Responsibilities:  • Worked in Agile development following scrum process, Sprint and daily stand-up meetings.  • Dealt with Django frameworks for web applications.  • Plan, design, review and maintain python-based applications and solution.  • Worked on different Rest API's and involved in handling the JSON responses of those API's.  • Designed a web page effectively and responsive using HTML, CSS, JavaScript.  • Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse JSON documents and load the data in the database.  • Participated in Version controlling process using GitHub, Git.  • Experience in Test Driven Development methodology.  Environment: Python, Django, SQL, SciPy, Amazon AWS EC2, S3, PyUnit, Agile. Python Backend Developer Tunie - Chennai, Tamil Nadu March 2014 to July 2016 Responsibilities:  • Analyzed system requirements specifications and involved in client interaction during the Requirements specifications.  • Developed entire backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and SQL.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Hands on experience in using MySQL dB, Python API.  • Hands on experience in using NumPy python API.  • Designed and maintained database schemas using normal forms to eliminate data redundancy.  • Worked on writing and as well as reading data from CVS and Excel file formats.  Environment: Python, Django, SQL, MySQL, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Linux (Ubuntu). Education Master of Science in Computer Science Binghamton University, State University of New York - Binghamton, NY May 2018 Bachelor of Engineering in Computer Science and Engineering Madras Institute of Technology, Anna University - Chennai, Tamil Nadu May 2016 Skills VISUAL STUDIO, DJANGO, Git, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, MYSQL