Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Risk Climate, LLC Trophy Club, TX • Have 3+ years of experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Testing, Customization, Bug fixes, Enhancement and implementation of various web, stand-alone, client-server enterprise applications using Python, Django.  • Experience with full software development life-cycle (SDLC), architecting scalable platforms, object-oriented programming (OOPs), database design and agile methodologies.  • Experience in developing web-based applications using Python 3 and Django.  • Good experience of software development in Python (libraries used: Turtle, Tkinter, numpy, matplotlib, Pandas, urllib2, MySQL dB for database connectivity) and IDEs - PyCharm, Eclipse, VS Code.  • Extensive experience in system analysis, design, development and implementation of web based and client/server application using HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, AngularJS, JavaScript, Python, Django.  • Good Knowledge of web services using REST protocols.  • Good Knowledge of version control software - GitHub. Work Experience Python Developer Risk Climate, LLC January 2019 to Present Description:  Risk Climate, LLC, a startup company, provides Enterprise Risk Management software for Higher Ed. Our enterprise risk management (ERM) software, designed specifically for institutions of higher education, provides streamlined risk forecasting and risk mitigation solutions based on strategic visualization and virtual analytics.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in MVP software development related to Enterprise Risk Management (ERM), strategic visualization and virtual analytics, powdered by Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning.  • Worked with team of developers on Python applications for RISK management.  • Working on ETL processing which consists of data transformation, data sourcing and also mapping, Conversion and loading.  • Automated JIRA processes using Python scripts.  • Strong understanding of MS SQL database. Writing Queries on existing schema for Analysis.  • Involved in designing the page using Bootstrap, Angular 5 and some custom CSS.  • Current professional development includes Bayesian probability theory and neural networks.  • Exposure to related languages includes NumPy, Pandas, BayesianPy, Tkinter.  • Selected to participate in external incubation meeting (Minneapolis, February 2019)  • Exposure to the real time implementation of Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning conducted by a Software Firm.  Environment: Python 3, MS SQL, Numpy, Pandas, BayesPy, Tkinter, PyCharm. Python Developer Admission Transit System, LLC June 2016 to January 2019 Description:  Admission Transit System, LLC, a startup company, provides a software which enhances and simplifies the ongoing admission process in USA. For decades the college admission process has been defined by the admission funnel model. The Admission Tunnel Theory facilitates the Admission Transit System and its visual workflow management software.  Responsibilities:  • Developing proprietary software that merges visual workflow management and virtual analytics.  • Minimal Viable product development using Python 3.7, schedule assisted with brainstorming approaches to data visualization and virtual analytics.  • Designed the software based on the reference in the Prezi environment.  • Translated the customer requirements into design specifications and ensured that the requirements translate into software solution.  • The MVP also establishes connection to the MS SQL database to perform operations, such as INSERT, UPDATE, DELETE and TRIGGER events as required.  • Involved in the design, development and testing phases of application using AGILE methodology.  • Tested and implemented applications using Python.  • Tested applications using the principles of Unit testing/ Test-driven Development (TDD), Load Testing and Integration testing  • Involved in maintaining python scripts using automated testing.  • Wrote Python routines to log into the websites and fetch data for selected options.  • Debug the script line by line for accurate results and validation the output with specific column name and rows.  • The software also enhances the attributes of a calendar to add events as required.  • Developed RESTful API (using flask), which would connect with CRMs such as salesforce and slate.  • RESTful APIs were tested using POSTMAN which tested the efficiency of the APIs at the server side.  • The Software Development Lifecycle was Agile throughout the implementation of the Software.  Environment: Python 3, MS SQL, Tkinter, RESTful API, Salesforce, Flask, PyCharm.    Other Skills Education Master of Science in Engineering Governors State University - University Park, IL Bachelor of Technology in Engineering Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University - Hyderabad, Telangana Skills DATABASE (3 years), PYTHON (3 years), SQL (3 years), API (2 years), OPERATIONS (2 years), Android, PHP, MySQL, ASP, Javascript Additional Information Technical Skills  Experience in Software Engineer and Enterprise Projects:  • Programming Technologies, front end: HTML/CSS, JavaScript, Angular 6.  • Programming Technologies: Python (Present Experience), C, C++, SQL, MATLAB, Java.  • Scripting Languages: ASP.Net, PHP.  • Frameworks: Flask, Django, Bootstrap.  • Python Libraries: Tkinter, Turtle, Mathplotlib, NumPy and Pandas.  • Databases: MySQL, Microsoft SQL, SQLite3, PostgreSQL.  • IDE's: PyCharm, Eclipse, Visual Studio Code.  • CRM: Salesforce.  • OS: Mac, Windows, Linux.  • Version Controls: Github.  • SDLC Methods: Waterfall, Agile.  • API: RESTful API.    Soft Skills: Strong Work Ethic, Positive attitude, Good Communication Skills, Time Management Abilities, Problem-Solving Skills, Self Confidence, Flexibility/Adaptability.    Curriculum Projects:  Created a realtor management website using Django Framework (Enterprise Project):  Description:  A realtor website for managing properties with fast and scalable website.  Responsibilities:  • Developed a realtor web-based management tool using Django Framework.  • Developed a user interface using front end technologies like HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap and JavaScript to design the look and feel of the pages been visible to users.  • Implemented client requirements using Python 3.7 using Visual Studio code as an IDE and managing the Django framework across the project.  • Used PostgreSQL to store, retrieve the data obtained from the client and whenever new data was given it would store and fetch the data as required, also used pgAdmin tool to maintain and check the database across the project.  • Used GitHub to maintain the repository and perform push and pull functionality as being a part of the requirement to maintain the security of the code produced for the project.  Environment: Python 3.7, Django, VS Code, GitHub, PostgreSQL, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap, Github, pgAdmin.    Created a website using Django Framework (Enterprise Project):  Description:  Shopping card for grocery store project is developed to simplify and enhance user's online shopping experience.  Roles and Responsibilities:  • Implemented a fast and scalable website using Django framework.  • Created a variety of products with sub categories.  • Simplified the shopping experience by adding image (s) to each and every product which makes it easy for the user to identify the items.  • Successfully established connections with SQLite3 which would help the application to store and retrieve the data.  • Created an option for the users which would allow them to add any number of items at once to the cart. The purchased items are saved in the database which would allow the users to revisit and order from their history with one click.  Environment: Python 3, Django, SQLite3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, PyCharm.  Master's Thesis - 5G Technology  • This technology is the future of current LTE technology which would be a boost to the future of wireless and computer networks, as the speeds would be way higher than the current LTE networks, which will push the technology to the new level.  • My thesis provides detail explanation of 5G technology, its architecture, challenges, advantages and disadvantages, issues and ends with future of 5G technology.  Advanced Database Project (Curriculum Project):  Description:  The project is based on bankruptcy auction with Dick's Sporting Goods. The plan is to keep at least 30 Golfsmith stores and wind down the rest of the retailer's 109 stores thru liquidators from Hilco Global and Tiger Capital group. Using Golf Galaxy, the team designed 10 stores in 5 different states (Illinois, Indiana, Michigan, Wisconsin, and Iowa) with real-time environment of Add, Delete, Update operations with 50 requirements.  Roles and Responsibilities:  • Created and established MySQL database for golf galaxy which allows the users to ADD, DELETE, and UPDATE 50 requirements (such as Golf's Drivers, fairway woods, etc.)  • Implemented TRIGGER events.  Environment: MySQL