Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - American Express Phoenix, AZ • Almost 5 years of IT experience, as strong background in programming experience, committed to maintaining technical skills and to be up-to-date with industry knowledge. Have good knowledge on NoSQL databases like Cassandra and Mongo DB and SQL databases like MySQL, PostgreSQL and SQLite3.  • Proven track record of implementing data driven web back ends with Python and Django.  • Experience with objects oriented programming, full development life cycle and worked with Agile and Waterfall methodologies.  • Hands-on experience in relational database connections like DB-API connection management and query based access to databases like PostgreSQL and MySQL in Python  • Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  • Extensive experience with multiple technologies Python, PL/SQL, Oracle and PostgreSQL.  • Good Experience with Django, a high-level Python Web framework.  • Backend applications using Python /Flask/Django and SQL/ PostgreSQL. Hands-on experience in writing and reviewing requirements, architecture documents, test plans, design documents, quality analysis and audits.  • Highly efficient in working in fast paced environment and multiple issues at a time.  • Highly motivated, dedicated, quick learner and have proven ability to build and manage a team and work individually.  • Excellent written and oral communication skills with results-oriented attitude.  • Familiarity with development best practices such as code reviews and unit testing.  • Experience in designing the automation framework using Perl and Shell scripting.  • Experience in writing test plans, test cases, test specifications and test coverage.  • Leading, guiding and helping the team members with the challenges faced during the project development process and problem solving.  • Have flexibility and ability to learn and use new technologies and to work in team environment as wells as independently to get things done  • Added several options to the application to choose the algorithm for data and address generation  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application  • Added several options to the application to choose the algorithm for data and address generation  • Complete Knowledge on SDLC models, Agile (Scrum, Kanban). Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer American Express - Philadelphia, PA September 2018 to Present • Experience in application development using Python, Django, HTML5, CSS, Git, Java\J2EE, JavaScript, Oracle, PostgreSQL and SQLite. Experience with ORM's such as Django and SQL, Alchamy, database design and normalization. Proficient skills of using PyUnit, PyTest for writing unit test cases.  • Experience object-oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, C++ and PHP. Strong Experience in web-based UI design and interface development using JSP, HTML, DHTML, CSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, Angular JS, Backbone JS, JQUERY, AJAX and JSON.  • Designed and implemented large scale business critical systems using Object oriented design and Programming concepts using Python and Django. Involved in web application development using ASP.Net, HTML5, JavaScript, jQuery, Knockout, Bootstrap, PHP and Action script 3.  • Developed UI using CSS, HTML, JavaScript, AngularJS, jQuery and JSON. Developed dynamic webpages through HTML5, CSS, JavaScript and AJAX. Expertise in developing different web applications implementing the Model-View-Controller (MVC) architectures using Full stack frameworks such as Django, Zope and Turbo Gears.  • Experience in using Eclipse, PyCharm, Visual Studio, Pyscripter and Sublime Text while developing different application in python. Good knowledge on SOAP and JSON web services. Python Developer CashCall - Orange, CA October 2016 to August 2017 CashCall, was one of the nation's premier lenders. It specializes in low interest mortgage and home refinancing for borrowers with good to excellent credit. CashCall Mortgage streamlines the application and lending process, reducing their own costs and passed that savings on to customers.  Description: My project with the company was with tools and calculator. This tool allows user to get the estimate prices for getting quotes for payment, will they qualify for a loan or not, best loan for the individual and other property factors.  Responsibilities:  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Wrote Python scripts to XML documents and load the data in the database.  • Designed and developed application front-end GUI using JSP, HTML, JavaScript, CSS, Ajax.  • Developed forms using HTML and performing client side validations using JavaScript, JQuery and Bootstrap.  • Extensively developed stored procedures, triggers, functions and packages in oracle SQL, PL/SQL.  • Utilized Python in the handling of all the hits on Django, Redis, and other applications.  • Implemented SOAP using web services to interact with various devices to pull real-time data on the network.  • Loading, analyzing and extracting data to and from Oracle Database with Python.  • Used standard Python modules e.g., csv, itertools, jinja for development.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Cleansing data generated from weblogs with automated scripts in Python.  • Using Mongo DB-NoSQL database for storing the information.  • Used SVN repository for software configuration management and version control.  Environment: Django, Python, Waterfall, JavaScript, Mongo DB, XML, SOAP based web services, Apache Web Server, Hibernate ORM, Tomcat. Application Consultant IBM GBS-India July 2014 to July 2016 • Hands on experience working on both Linux and Windows servers.  • Understand and have used a variety of versioning systems such as SourceSafe, Vault, GIT, and TFS.  • Worked on a variety of e-commerce websites creating toast notifications, statistical reporting, call center enhancements and bug fixes; using ASP classic, PHP, MySQL HTML & Javascript  • Working on website and API development project for medical solution using PHP, MySQL, HTML, & JQuery.  • Involved in preparation of detailed and technical designs.  • Modified major front-end screen changes of application.  • Writing stored procedures and complex SQL queries  • Successfully created and debugged many PL/SQL procedures, functions and Packages for the application.  • Added several options to the application to choose for the user as well as the pharmacist  • Involved in preparation of test plans for unit, QA, End to End and Integration testing of application.  • Developed Web Services with Python programming language  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database and developed web-based applications using Python, CSS and HTML.  • Cleaned data and processed third party spending data into maneuverable deliverables within specific formats with Excel macros and python libraries.  • Hands on experience working in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, My SQL, and Python/PHP) Architecture.  • Documenting User Requirements and Functional Requirements. Education Master's Skills ANDROID STUDIO, C++, DJANGO, JAVASCRIPT, JENKINS, PYTHON, FLASK, SVN, XML, TOMCAT, WEB LOGIC, WEB SERVICES, DATABASE, DB2, MS ACCESS, SQL SERVER, MYSQL, ORACLE, SQL, SYBASE