Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - JPMorgan Chase New York, NY ? 4+ years of experience in developing web-based applications, software development and design using Python, Django, XML, CSS, HTML, C++, jQuery and AngularJS.  ? Experienced with WAMP (Windows, Apache, MySQL, and Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python/PHP) Architecture.  ? Experience of using Python modules like NumPy, Matplotlib, Pickle, Pandas, SciPy, wxPython, PyTables, PyQt, etc., for generating complex graphical data, creation of histograms, etc.  ? Experienced in implementing Model View Control (MVC) architecture using server-side applications like Django and Flask for developing web applications.  ? Experienced with JSON based RESTful web services, and XML based SOAP web services.  ? Worked on various applications using python integrated IDEs like Eclipse, IntelliJ, Sublime Text and PyCharm.  ? Experience of working with relational databases like Oracle, SQLite, PostgreSQL, MySQL, DB2 and non-relational databases like MongoDB and Cassandra.  ? Worked on JIRA for bug tracking and communicating for better results Strong Experience in Big data technologies including Apache Spark, Hadoop, HDFS, Hive, MongoDB.  ? Experience in project deployment using Jenkins and Amazon Web Services (AWS).  ? Proficient in using editors Eclipse, PyCharm, PyScripter, Notepad++ and Sublime Text while developing different applications.  ? Good experience of software development in Python (libraries used: Beautiful Soup, NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib, Pandas data frame, urllib2, MySQL dB for database connectivity) and IDEs - sublime text, PyCharm, Microsoft Visual Code.  ? Experienced in all facets of full CM process with tools such as SVN, GIT, PVCS, Clear Case, Clear Quest, Perforce, Cruise Control, Jenkins, Bamboo, Chef and Puppet.  ? Experience to build servers using AWS which includes importing necessary volumes, launching the EC2 instance, creating security groups, auto-scaling, load balancers, Route 53 and SNS as per the architecture.  ? Strong and deep Knowledge about setting up Python REST API Frame work using Django and Experience in working with Python ORM Libraries including Django ORM.  ? Expertise in AWS platform and its dimensions of scalability including EC2, ECS, Elastic Beanstalk, S3, EBS, VPC, ELB, SNS, RDS, IAM, Route 53, Auto scaling, Cloud Front, Cloud Watch, Security Groups.  ? Having experienced in Agile Methodologies, PCI, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, Data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  ? Experience in application development using PYTHON, Django, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, and jQuery, MySQL, PostgreSQL and SQLite.  ? Experience with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins and basic knowledge Unit testing/ Test driven Development (TDD), Load Testing.  ? Experience in project deployment using Google Cloud/Jenkins, Elastic Search and using web Services like Amazon Web Services (AWS).  ? Experience in working on different operating systems-windows, Linux, UNIX, and Mac also strong development experience on Linux based operating systems such as Ubuntu, Red Hat and CentOS.  ? Having good domain expertise in developing applications/tools using Perl and programming in C, C++.  ? Basic knowledge on developing J2EE applications using IDEs like RAD, Eclipse, WSAD and NetBeans.  ? Experience in NoSQL databases like Apache Cassandra (1.2, 2.0, and 2.1) and MongoDB (2.6, 2.4), Orient DB.  ? Experience in using Git, GitHub, and Amazon EC2 and deployment using Heroku.  ? Experience working with Vagrant and Docker images and containers and Ansible.  ? Experience in database programming using RDBMS like ORACLE and SQL R2/2012 and maintaining the database, including requirement analysis, design, data conversion, loading, testing and implementation. Work Experience Sr. Python Developer JPMorgan Chase - New York, NY April 2018 to Present Involved in developing test automation framework with Python scripting& Selenium. Generating various capacity planning reports (graphical) using Python packages like NumPy, matplotlib.  ? Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  ? Automate different workflows, which are initiated manually with Python scripts and Unix shell scripting. Created, activated and programed in Anaconda environment.  ? Use Python unit and functional testing modules such as unit test, unittest2, mock, and custom frameworks in-line with Agile Software Development methodologies.  ? Extensively used Django micro service framework for simple request and response. Designed RESTful XML web service for handling AJAX requests.  ? Develop Sqoop scripts to handle change data capture for processing incremental records between new arrived and existing data in RDBMS tables.  ? Manage datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL, queried MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package to retrieve information.  ? Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python 3.7, Java, Bootstrap, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery. Generated Python Django forms to record data of online users and used PyTest for writing test cases.  ? Worked on creating and documenting POC for helping migrate the current application to micro service architecture. The architecture included Docker as the container technology with Kubernetes and worked on with REST API.  ? Implemented and modified various SQL queries and Functions, Cursors and Triggers as per the client requirements. Used Pandas as API to put the data as time series and tabular format for manipulation and retrieval of data  ? Clean data and processed third party spending data into maneuverable deliverables within specific format with Excel macros and python libraries such as NumPy, SQL Alchemy and matplotlib.  ? Helped with the migration from the old server to Jira database (Matching Fields) with Python scripts for transferring and verifying the information.  ? Used Selenium Library to write fully functioning test automation process that allowed the simulation of submitting different requests from multiple browsers to web application.  ? Analyzed Format data using Machine Learning algorithm by Python Scikit-Learn and worked on python, Jupyter, Scientific computing stack (NumPy, SciPy, pandas and matplotlib).  ? Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  ? Write Python scripts to parse JSON documents and load the data in database. Developed single page application by using Angular JS backed by MongoDB and NodeJS.  ? Analyzing various logs that are been generating and predicting/forecasting next occurrence of event with various Python libraries.  ? Using a Docker file created docker images, worked on Docker container removing images and managing Docker volumes.  ? Used Selenium Library to write fully functioning test automation process that allowed the simulation of submitting different we request from multiple browser to web application  ? Design and maintain databases using Python and developed Python based API (RESTful Web Service) using Flask, SQL Alchemy and PostgreSQL.  ? Manage code versioning with GitHub, Bit Bucket and deployment to staging and production servers and implement MVC architecture in developing the web application with the help of Django framework.  ? Use Celery as task queue and RabbitMQ, Redis as messaging broker to execute asynchronous tasks. Design and manage API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture.  ? Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  ? Export Test case Scripts and modified the selenium scripts and executed in Selenium environment. Built various graphs for business decision making using Python mat plotid library.  ? Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework. Scraping website using Python Beautiful Soup, and then parsed it with XML.  ? Outputting the parsed data as JSON/BSON and stored into MongoDB. Querying data from MongoDB and use them as input for the machine learning models.  ? Using AWS for application deployment and configuration. Wrote UNIX shell scripting for automation.  ? Developed views and templates with Django view controller and template Language to create a user-friendly website interface.  ? Worked on AWS CLI Auto Scaling and Cloud Watch Monitoring creation and update.  ? Used JavaScript and JSON to update a portion of a webpage. Develop consumer-based features using Django, HTML and Test-Driven Development (TDD).  ? Worked on AWS CLI Auto Scaling and Cloud Watch Monitoring creation and update. Used Apache CouchDB (NoSQL) in AWS Linux instance in parallel to RDS MySQL to store and analyze job market info  ? Developed Python web services for processing JSON and interfacing with the Data layer. Increased the speed of pre-existing search indexes through Django ORM optimizations.  ? Developed module to build Django ORM queries that can pre-load data to greatly reduce the number of databases queries needed to retrieve the same amount of data. Intel, Python Developer Report Lab - Santa Clara, CA October 2016 to August 2017 Used Django frameworks and Python to build dynamic webpages. Developed tools for monitoring and notification using Python.  ? Used data structures like directories, tuples, object-oriented class-based inheritance features for making complex algorithms of networks.  ? Work on SCR's (source change request). involved working on Perl, Python, PHP and Shell Scripting.  ? Created PHP/MySQL back-end for data entry from Flash and worked in tandem with the Flash developer to obtain the correct data through query string.  ? Carried out various mathematical operations for calculation purpose using python libraries. Involved in designing database Model, API's, Views using python to build an interactive web-based solution.  ? Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users. Enhanced the application by using HTML and Java script for design and development.  ? Implemented Data tables to add, delete, update and display patient records and policy information using PyQt. Implemented a module to connect and view the status of an Apache Cassandra instance using python.  ? Managed datasets using Panda data frames and MYSQL. Queried the database queries using Python-MySQL connector and retrieved information using MySQL.  ? Utilized Python Libraries like Scrapy, Beautiful Soup, NumPy, Requests, URL Lib/Lib 2, Pandas, Matplotlib, SQL Alchemy.  ? Worked with Requests, Pysftp, Gnupg, Report Lab, NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib, HTTPLib2, Urllib2, Beautiful Soup and Pandas python libraries during development lifecycle  ? Recorded the online users' data using Python Django forms and implemented test case using Pytest. Developed MVC prototype replacement of current product with Django.  ? Developed the application using the Test-driven methodology and designed the unit tests using Python Unit test framework.  ? Created Docker images using a Docker file, worked on Docker container snapshots, removing images and managing Docker volumes.  ? Created web application prototype using jQuery and Angular JS. Deployed the project into Heroku using GIT version control system,  ? Maintained and Updated the application in accordance to the clientele's requirement. Expanded website functionality, using Flask framework in Python to control the web application logic  ? Exchanged data with SQL database and NoSQL database such as MongoDB. Generated data-driven reports, data visualization using Tableau.  ? Used EC2 Container Service (ECS) to support Docker containers to easily run applications on a managed cluster of Amazon EC2 instances.  ? Used HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON designed and developed the user interface of the website. Used JavaScript and JSON to update a portion of a webpage.  ? Developed views and templates with Django view controller and template Language to create a user-friendly website interface.  ? Wrote Ansible playbooks for automating the process of provisioning custom Docker containers using AWSEC2 machines as hosts  ? Used AWS Beanstalk for deploying and scaling web applications and services developed with Java.  ? Designed infrastructure for AWS application and workflow using Terraform and had done implementation and continuous delivery of AWS infrastructure using Terraform.  ? Develop consumer-based features using Django, HTML and Test-Driven Development (TDD). Developed Python web services for processing JSON and interfacing with the Data layer.  ? Used GIT version control and deployed project to Heroku and Increased the speed of pre-existing search indexes through Django ORM optimizations.  ? Designed front end and backend of the application using Python on Django Web Framework. Used Pandas datamining library for statistics Analysis & NumPy for Numerical analysis.  ? Craped and retrieved web data as JSON using Scrapy, presented with Pandas library. Jr. Python Developer Accenture - Pune, Maharashtra May 2014 to September 2016 Worked as a part of team in developing the UI and other front-end programming including layout of web application matching the Autodesk requirements  ? Maintaining the coordination of all the project activities and make sure all the phases of the project are properly followed and documented regularly.  ? Worked on various applications using python integrated IDEs Sublime Text, PyCharm, NetBeans, Spyder and IntelliJ. Carried out various mathematical operations for calculation purpose using Python libraries NUMPY.  ? Inputs on layouts were provided after detailed design discussions and user experience sessions. Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL and creating efficient system.  ? Angular JS directives were used to develop custom HTML elements. Using jQuery, Angular Java script client-side validation techniques were developed.  ? Using web technologies like HTML, XHTML, CSS, Responsive Web design and Bootstrap, front end applications, user interactive web pages were designed.  ? Non-functional HTML, CSS pages from mock ups were developed and was a part of the UI review UI with business units and UI architects.  ? Extensively used Selenium Library to write fully functioning test automation process that allowed the simulation of submitting different requests from multiple browsers to web applications.  ? Used Unit Test Python library for testing many Python programs and block of codes. Utilized Python specific tools including Django, Django Rest Framework, Django, SQLAlchemy, Pandas, NumPy.  ? Using JavaScript, HTML, DOM, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and jQuery in ongoing projects GUI was developed. Used MySQL as backend database and MySQL dB of python as database connector to interact with MySQL server.  ? Helped with the migration from the old server to Jira database with Python scripts for transferring and verifying the information.  ? Used Python (NumPy, SciPy, Pandas, Scikit-Learn, Seaborn), and Spark 2.0 (PySpark, MLlib) to develop variety of models and algorithms for analytic purposes  ? Generating various capacity planning reports (graphical) using Python packages like NumPy, matplotlib.  ? Did Represented the system in hierarchy form by defining the components, subcomponents using Python and developed set of library functions over the system based on the user needs.  ? Hand-written HTML, CSS, XHTML, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, XML and JSON were converted to mock-ups.  ? New web components and features were designed and created for improved user experience. Using server and client-based State Management options application state was managed.  ? Created Python scripts to automate AWS services which include web servers, ELB, Cloud Front distribution, database, EC2 and database security groups, S3 bucket and application configuration.  ? Was a part of complete Software development Lifecycle - Requirement Analysis, Development, System and Integration Testing. cross browser/platform compatibility issues (IE, Firefox, and Safari) on both Windows were handled.