Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - Credit Suisse Raleigh, NC • Around 5+ Years of experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Management and Implementation of various stand-alone, client-server enterprise applications using Python, Django, C/C++, Java.  • Vigorous knowledge in progressing web applications and effectuating Model View Control architecture using Django web application framework.  • Developed all business CRUD operations using RESTFUL services. Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Excellent knowledge on Python Collections and Multi-Threading.  • Proficient in developing complex SQL queries, Stored Procedures, Functions, Packages along with performing DDL and DML operations on the database.  • Analysis using proprietary analytics writtein Python, SAS and VBA  • Implemented responsive web pages using HTML5/CSS3, XML/JSON based REST web services.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, C++, XML, CSS, HTML.  • Experienced with object-oriented programming (OOPS) concepts using Python, C++ and Java.  • Excellent working knowledge in Unix and Linux shell environments using command line utilities  • Hands on experience working in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MySQL, and Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python/PHP) Architecture.  • Good experience using various Python libraries to speed up development (libraries used: OS, Pickle, NumPy) MySQL dB for database connectivity.  • Worked on diverse applications using python integrated IDEs Eclipse, PyCharm, Visual Studio  • Experience in Performance Tuning, Query Optimization, Client/Server Connectivity, and Database Consistency Checks, Backup and Recovery.  • Good knowledge of web services with protocols SOAP, REST.  • Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache.  • Experienced with Unit Testing, System Integration Testing (SIT) and User Acceptance Testing (UAT)  • Having experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and Sprints experience in a Python based environment.  • Experienced with version control systems like Git, SVN to keep the versions and configurations of the code organized.  • Expertise in Production support and Knowledge of deployment using Hudson and Jenkins. Experience in writing test scripts, test cases, test specifications and test coverage.  • Dynamic contribution in full development life cycle (requirements, design, architecture, development, testing)  • Good amount of experience in handling errors/exceptions and debugging issues in large scale applications.  • Hands-on experience in writing and reviewing requirements, architecture documents, test plans, design documents, quality analysis and audits. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Sr. Python Developer Credit Suisse - Raleigh, NC September 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Developed and implemented components of a work package / project as per client requirements.  • Used Django framework for creating the project. Deployed the project using Windows IIS server.  • Used SQLite DataBase for loading the data from the server.  • Worked on Azure Cloud for developing Internal ChatBot Applicaton.  • Used HTML, CSS and Bootstrap for designing the UI webpage for the front end.  • Create a fault tolerant code and modify complex systems or develop new sub systems.  • Develop comprehensive unit testing cases and plans update knowledge assets and guide team to do the same integrate work of developers.  • Wrote python scripts to parse JSON documents and load the data into database.  • Involved in Unit testing and Integration testing of the code using PyTest.  • Interacted with QA to develop test plans from high-level design documentation.  • Developed Automation/test python scripts to test. Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Improved code reuse and performance by making effective use of various design patterns.  • Participate in requirement gathering JAD sessions and support documentation where applicable (business, functional, UI, usability, data, compliance, data migration, NFR, 3rd party tools & products)  • Raise queries and get query resolution on areas which are unclear, ambiguous and which need more information to the Technology Lead.  Environment: Python 3.6, Django 1.11.5, Windows IIS Server, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap. Python Developer TreppLLC - New York, NY September 2017 to August 2018 Responsibilities:  • Involved in various phases of the project like analysis, design, development, and testing.  • Generated Python Django Forms to Record data of users. Administered all aspects of Agile with Scrum processes.  • Worked with vendors to ensure effective implementation of Agile.  • Comfortable working within the Django ORM, writing native SQL queries in PostgreSQL. Developed remote integration with third party platforms by using RESTful web services.  • Worked on pushing data from development to third party Database using REST API's.  • Experienced in Python and Django in creating graphics, JSON processing, data exchange and business logic implementation.  • Experienced in working with server-side technologies including databases, RESTFUL API and MVC design patterns.  • Involved using Python, Mongo DB and React for design development. Designed front end using HTML, Bootstrap, CSS and Javascript.  • Wrote Python routines to log into the websites and fetch data for selected options. Wrote Python scripts to parse JSON documents and load the data in database.  • Worked on Python Modules and Packages.  • Experienced with Amazon EC2 and other based automation tools  • Developed and deployed corporate intranet platforms for data visualization and analytics using Python, Django, Django Rest Framework, PostgreSQL backend.  • Used JIRA for bug tracking and issue tracking. Used Maven to Validate, compile and deploy the files.  Environment: Python 3, Django 1.9, HTML5, React, CSS, JSON, PostgreSQL, Gitlab, Linux. Python Developer AIG - Tampa, FL April 2016 to August 2017 Responsibilities:  • Worked on development of internal testing tool framework written in Python. Exposure on Multi-Threading factory to distribute learning process back-testing and into various worker processes.  • Implemented Agile management ideals by facilitating exercises such as sprint planning and team leading standups.  • Wrote scripts in Python for extracting data from HTML file.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Worked with Flask to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Used JavaScript and JSON to update a portion of a webpage.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse JSON documents and load the data in database. Created database using oracle, wrote several queries to extract data from database.  • Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into Oracle database.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to Oracle with complete data integrity.  • Followed AGILE development methodology to develop the application.  • Used and customized apache server for checking our developed project.  • Used Test driven approach (TDD) for developing services required for the application.  • Implemented Integration test cases.  • Different testing methodologies like unit testing, Integration testing, web application testing,  • Selenium testing were performed. Designed, implemented, validate and Tested custom scripts  • Experience in using the Lambda functions like filter (), map () and reduce () called functional programming  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application. Experience in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM Process.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.9, Flask, HTML5, XML, oracle, CSS, Embedded SQL, Eclipse, Git, Linux, JIRA Python Developer Mobiware - Chicago, IL January 2015 to November 2015 Responsibilities:  • Extensive knowledge in loading data into charts using Python code. Working cross-functionally to ensure proper functionality and delivery.  • Composed python scripts to parse XML and JSON reports and load the information in database.  • Maintain a solid understanding of MySQL database.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python.  • Develop scalable applications and to effectively manage technology -tradeoffs and risks.  • Design database structures and develop/tune data access utilizing SQL Server by creating Django based ORM.  • Handled RESTful services with the help of Python library urllibs.  • Closely analyzed the database tables using sequel pro tool of MySQL to resolve integrity issues.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Collaborate with key stakeholders and project managers to design, develop, integrate, test, document and implement the system.  • Using Pandas library, statistics analysis is done on the claims data.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.7, MySQL, Linux, Shell Scripting, HTML5, CSS3, JIRA, GIT Software Developer AMNA Infotech - IN May 2014 to December 2014 Responsibilities:  • Developed applications in Linux environment and familiar with all its commands.  • Worked with HTML, CSS and JavaScript in developing web applications.  • Rewrite existing Java, C++ application in Python.  • Improved code reuse and performance by making effective use of various design patterns.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working with new code.  • Involved in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support. Maintaining the scripts using the version Control.  • Maintaining school database using MS EXCEL.  • Proactively worked with managers and development staff to meet project goals within expected timelines.  • Rewrite existing Java application in Python module to deliver certain format of data.  • Used OOPs concepts in overall design and development of web/system applications  • Experience in writing complex queries, functions and views in MS SQL  • Proficient in handling huge data and performing creating, reading, updating and deleting (CRUD) operations on MS SQL.  • Wrote programs for performance calculations using NumPy and Sqlalchemy.  • Used several python libraries like NumPy and matplotlib.  • Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis.  Environment: Python 2.7, CSS, C++, Java, HTML, SQL, MS SQL, XML, Linux, JIRA, SVN. Education Masters University of North Carolina Skills CSS (4 years), PYTHON (4 years), DJANGO (4 years), JSON (4 years), LINUX (3 years), Javascript Additional Information Technical Skills  Languages Python, C, C++, Core Java, HTML5, CSS, XML, JSON  Frameworks Django, Flask  Protocols TCP/IP, HTTP/HTTPS, SOAP  Version Control Tools Subversion and GIT    Operating Systems Windows95/98/NT/2000/XP/7/8/10, Unix, Linux (CentOS and Ubuntu)  Databases MySQL, MS SQL, Oracle, Redis  Deployment Tools Jenkins, Hudson, Ansible  IDE Tools PyCharm, Eclipse, IntelliJ  Web Servers Apache, Tomcat, HTTP Server  Bug Reporting Tools JIRA, Bugzilla and CollabNet