Software Engineer Software Engineer Software Engineer - Greytip Software Private Limited bengaluru ? Around 3+ years of exposure working in Software Development as Python backend developer  ? Hands on experience in developing web applications using Python programming language and frameworks such as Django, Flask  ? Responsible for writing server-side web application logic  ? Developing back-end components connect the application with the other third-party web services using REST API  ? Supporting front-end developers by integrating their functionality with the Python applications  ? Worked with Agile and Scrum methodology with Sprint implementation  ? Intermediate level knowledge on front-end technologies such as HTML, CSS, JavaScript  ? Proficient understanding of code versioning tools such as GIT, Source Tree  ? Good working knowledge in building application using Docker, Kubernetes  ? Having good knowledge on writing Python programming with exposure on Data Structures, OOPS concepts  ? Ability to work independently, take ownership and deliver quality product on time  ? Self-motivated, good learner and quick to adapt to any changes Work Experience Software Engineer Greytip Software Private Limited - Bengaluru, Karnataka April 2018 to Present · Involved in estimation for new features and Problem Logs  · Involved in writing test cases using unit test, mock frameworks  · Implemented code refactoring using Pylint Static Analysis  · Worked closely with client to understand Requirements, Functional Analysis and Technical Analysis Python Developer Clopay Garage Doors April 2018 to Present Technologies: Python, Django, GIT, REST API, Docker, Bamboo, Kubernetes    Description:    Clopay manufactures both building and plastic products. It is famous for its Garage Doors. iStore is an application where dealers can order these garage doors. In this, dealers can configure garage doors according to customer requirements. The main objective of the project is to check the process flow of the order from iStore to Order Management till it is got shipped. We will also check the performance of the application in different browsers    Roles & Responsibilities:    • Involved in estimation for new features and Problem Logs.  • Involved in writing test cases using unit test, mock frameworks  • Implemented code refactoring using Pylint Static Analysis  • Worked closely with client to understand Requirements, Functional Analysis and Technical Analysis Software Trainee REConnect Energy Solutions Pvt. Ltd - Bengaluru, Karnataka June 2016 to April 2018 Technical Skills    Programming Language Python  Frameworks Django, Flask  Tools Apache Kafka, GIT  Technologies Docker, Kubernetes  Web Technologies HTML, CSS, JavaScript  Databases MySQL  IDE's Eclipse, PyCharm  Methodologies Agile, Waterfall Model Python Developer HIMS June 2016 to April 2018 Description:    HIMS is developed for automation of the various hospital inventory activities performed inside the system. It has various modules like patient registration system, Inpatient, Outpatient, Doctor Allocation, Emergency and inventory management system. Patient registration module deals with the allocation of slot for the patient based on the availability of the doctors and their visits. Inpatient and Outpatient modules deals with the movement of patients inside the hospitals and revenue generated through the patient movement.    Roles & Responsibilities:    • Involved in developing the python code for the business logic  • Involved in Agile, Scrum methodology with Sprint implementation  • Involved in writing unit test cases using unitest, mock frameworks  • Writing Queries for retrieving data from backend.  • Involved in Code reviews, Code refactoring while creating Pull requests    Declaration:    I here by declare that all the above information is correct to the best of my knowledge and belief.    Date:  Place: ( Naraveni Pavan Kumar ) Education BTECH in ECE JNTU Anantapur - Anantapur, Andhra Pradesh 2012 to 2016 Narayana Junior College - Anantapur, Andhra Pradesh 2010 to 2012 Skills Git, MYSQL, Javascript, CSS, HTML 5, MYSQL, Javascript, Git