Python / Django Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> / Django <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python / Django Developer - Schlumberger • Over 4+ years of experience as a Web/Application Developer with deep understanding of technology trends with expertise in core of complex technologies, solid experience in Analysis, Design and Development, Testing, Implementation, production support and maintenance of various Web Applications using Python, Django.  • Good Knowledge in various phases of SDLC Requirement Analysis, Design, Development, and Testing on various Development and Enhancement Projects, Good Knowledge of Agile Methodologies (Scrum).  • Good experience in developing web applications implementing MVT/MVC architecture using Django, Flask, Web2py, Webapp2, and with good understanding of Django ORM and SQLAlchemy.  • Experience of using Python modules like NumPy, Matplotlib, Pickle, Pandas, PySide, SciPy, wxPython, PyTables, PyQt, etc., for generating complex graphical data, creation of histograms, etc.  • Extensive experience in Python web frameworks like Django, Pyramid, and Flask in implementing MVC, singleton, factory architecture.  • Experience in working with different operating systems Windows, Linux and UNIX, experienced in Shell scripting and UNIX commands.  • Good experience in Python scripting, Shell Scripting, SQL Server, UNIX, and Linux. Work Experience Python / Django Developer Schlumberger - Houston, TX May 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in software development life cycle (SDLC) of tracking the requirements, gathering, analysis, detailed design, development, system testing and user acceptance testing.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Knowledge of cross-browser and cross-platform development of HTML and CSS based.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Installed, configured, and managed the AWS server. AWS data pipeline for Data Extraction, Transformation and Loading from the homogeneous or heterogeneous data sources.  • Used AWS for application deployment and configuration. Responsible for setting up REST APIs using Django.  • Actively involved in developing the methods for Create, Read, Update and Delete (CRUD) in Active Record.  • Implemented and modified various SQL queries and Functions, Cursors and Triggers as per the client requirements.  • Implemented and executed code to perform CRUD operations on MongoDB using PyMongo module.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse JSON documents and load the data in MongoDB.  • Experience with Unit testing/ Test driven Development (TDD), Load Testing.  • Managed code versioning with GitHub, Bit Bucket and deployment to staging and production servers.  • Implemented MVC architecture in developing the web application with the help of Django framework.  • Used Celery as task queue and RabbitMQ, Redis as messaging broker to execute asynchronous tasks.  • Created tables on top of data on AWS S3 obtained from different data sources.  • Migrated the data from cluster into the AWS environment.  • Implementation of AWS lambda with python scripting code.  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture.  • Involved in Developing a Restful API'S service using Python Flask framework.  • Contributing in the design and creation of RESTful APIs using Python/Django/Django Rest Framework.  • Implemented Amazon Web services (AWS) Rest API Gateway using AWS Lambda.  • Developed AWS cloud formation templates and setting up Auto Scaling for EC2 instances.  • Involved in code reviews using GitHub pull requests, reducing bugs, improving code quality, and increasing knowledge sharing.  • Maintenance and continuous development of the applications in PL/SQL procedures, ETL modules and shell scripting using best practices.  • Also worked on creating custom ETL scripts using Python scripting for business related data.  • Developed ETL processes using Python to feed data into MS SQL Server.  • Performed robust regression automation testing of multiple platforms using Selenium WebDriver and Robot framework.  • Developed applications and methods with Python scripting for ETL, with MS SQL and Oracle.  • Implemented monitoring and established best practices around using elastic search.  • Implemented task object to interface with data feed framework and invoke database message service setup and update functionality.  • Worked on Solr, Elasticsearch, Kafka, Flume, MongoDB, Cassandra and RabbitMQ.  • Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis.  • Used Unit Test Python scripting library for testing many Python programs and block of codes.  • Working under UNIX environment in development of application using Python scripting and familiar with all of its commands.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.8, MongoDB HTML5, CSS, XML, MySQL, AWS, JavaScript, JQuery, Bootstrap, RESTful, IDLE, Windows 2008 Server, Pandas library, Nginx, GitHub and Windows, Linux. Python Developer Toshiba Business Solutions - Boston, MA June 2016 to April 2018 Responsibilities:  • Closely involved in performance evaluation and User Acceptance Test.  • Developed a portal to manage the entities in a content management system using Flask.  • Wrote programs for performance calculations using Numpy and sqlalchemy.  • Worked on CSV files while trying to get input from the MySQL database.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Worked in stages such as analysis and design, development, testing and debugging.  • Organized data exchange and integration with customers and third-party systems using CSV, XLS, XML, DBF and REST.  • Responsible for managing large databases using Panda data frames and MySQL.  • Created Python and Bash tools to increase efficiency of call center application system  • Developing Python scripting Framework using Django to perform scan software unit monitoring.  • Created Python and Bash tools to increase efficiency of call center application system and operations; data conversion scripts, AMQP/Rabbit MQ, REST scripts for API Integration.  • Built various graphs for business decision making using Python scripting matplotlib library.  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and AWS architecture.  • Built an AWS and REDIS server for storing the data and performed defect analysis and interaction with Business Users during UAT/SIT.  • Used AWS for application deployment and configuration.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Worked on updating the existing clip board to have the new features as per the client requirements.  • Created hourly or daily builds automatically and also deployed builds to production environment. Used Jenkins for continuous integration (CI) and continuous deployment (CD).  • Developed and maintained parsing modules, which read CSV, XML and JSON data from files and other REST services, processed the data.  • Applied REST API development via Django REST Framework model to develop an information management system.  • Involved in testing RESTful API like Twilio, Facebook and Twitter.  • Used many regular expressions in order to match the pattern with the existing one.  • Skilled in using collections in Python scripting for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  • Created Git repository and added to GitHub project.  • Work with team of developers on python applications for RISK management.  • Taken part in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Improved code reuse and performance by making effective use of various design patterns.  • Resolving Complexity in the scripts of the website due to the complex logic and correlations.  • Script validation sometimes becomes challenging as it demanded many web-based logic rather than correlation and parameterization.  • Used Robot framework for test Automation integrated with Jenkins.  • Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  Environment: Python 2.7, Windows, Panda API, MySQL, PyScripter, Django 1.4, MySQL, Teradata, Linux, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, Apache Web Server, SQL Alchemy, Git, Jenkins. Software Developer Gujarat InfoTech Ltd - IN January 2015 to December 2015 Project: Store Comrade  Store Comrade is an advanced system which collect, stores and updates real time data related to the inventory management as well as external data such as feedback, connecting with customers, promoting products online and so. Store Comrade automatically updates as the inventory is revised and altered. It also contains module for the employee management where the data related to the employee can be stored with ease. Any data can be fetched or retrieved at any time.    Responsibilities:  • Participated in the complete SDLC process and used PHP to develop website functionality.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using Node JS, HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python scripting on Django Web Framework.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL. Built application logic using Python 2.7.  • Used Django APIs for database access.  • Participated in requirement gathering and worked closely with the architect in designing and modeling.  • Worked with the team to customize word press security installations.  • Used python scripts to Work with Facebook Platform Python SDK to access and post on Facebook page's wall.  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures on MYSQL.  • Designed and developed a horizontally scalable APIs using Python Flask.  • Designed Cassandra schema for the APIs.  • Knowledge and experience in writing web proxy in Python scripting.  • Designed RESTful XML web service for handling AJAX requests.  • Developed remote integration with third party platforms by using RESTful web services.  • Updated and maintained Jenkins for automatic building jobs and deployment.  • Implemented database access using Django ORM.  • Backend data access modules using PL/SQL stored procedures and Oracle were designed and created.  • Created RESTful API's calls with server, parse output report of excel files.  • Extensively used python modules such as requests, urllib, urllib2 for web crawling.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Used Test Driven Approach for developing the application and implemented the unit tests using Python Unit Test framework.  • Involved in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM Process.  • Used many regular expressions in order to match the pattern with the existing one and store them in data base on a chronological basis.  • Implemented code to perform CRUD operations on MY SQL using Toad.  • Deployment of the web application using the Linux server.  Environment: Python 2.6/2.7, Script, Django Framework 1.3, CSS, PyCharm, SQL, MySQL, LAMP, JQuery, Adobe Dreamweaver, Apache web server. Education Master of Science in Information Systems Engineering & Management in Information Systems Engineering & Management Harrisburg University of Science and Technology - Harrisburg, PA Skills Visual studio, Amazon web services, C++, Cucumber, Django, Git, Google app engine, Html, Javascript, Node.js, Python, Flask, Scripting, Xml, Xslt, Database, Microsoft sql server, Sql server, Mysql, Oracle Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Platforms: Windows, Unix/Linux  Programming Skills: Python 2.7/ 3.5, Java/J2EE, C, C++  Frameworks: Django, Flask, CherryPy, web2py, Google App Engine, Pyramid, Tornado  Web Technologies: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, JQuery, Angular JS, Node.JS  Database: MySQL, Oracle, Microsoft SQL Server, PostgreSQL, MongoDB, Datastax, CitusDB  Scripting Languages: Python, R, Shell (Bash, ZSH, KSH, etc.), HTML, XML, XSLT  Web/Application Servers: Nginx, Gunicon, Websphere, Apache Tomcat, Web Logic  Web Services: Restful, SOAP  Cloud Computing: Amazon Web Services (AWS), Google cloud, IBM Bluemix  IDE's/Development Tools: Wing, PyCharm, PyScripter, PyStudio, IDLE, Eclipse  AWS Services: S3, VPC, EC2, RDS, Glacier, DynamoDB, EBS, ELB, SQS, SNS, CloudWatch, Auto Scaling, IAM  Other Tools Used: Toad, SQL Developer, Visual Studio, Putty, Git  Testing Frameworks: Cucumber, Robot, Selenium, NoseTests, Mocha, Chai, Zope, PyTest, Jasmine, NOSE