Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - TIAA-CREF * Having 3+ years of experience in developing applications using Java, Python, MatLab and C.  * In depth knowledge in different phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) using Waterfall and Agile methodologies.  * Experienced in MVC frameworks like Django, Angular JS, Java Script, JQuery and Node Js  * Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache  * Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors and Functions on MySQL and Postgre SQL database.  * Experience in supporting QA team on application testing phase. Involved in software product installation and worked closely with the vendors on the application packaging and installation process.  * Developed application install procedures to help release engineering team and updated TRA documents for application support team reference.  * Experienced in Designing and implementing of Test driven application development. Expert in creating SQL queries for the development and QA for data validation  * Developed unit testing cases and helped QA team identify/review critical scenarios for system testing.  * Experience in Devops continuous integration and deployment of agile projects. Setup continuous build environment with Jenkins to do daily deployments.  * Deploy configuration updates using Chef, Ansible. Motivated self-starter with exceptional team building and interpersonal skills.  * Ability to excel and succeed in diverse environments and projects with strong determination, dedication and inclination towards customer satisfaction. Good team player with excellent communication skills and quickly adopt new technologies. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Python Developer TIAA-CREF - Lexington, KY October 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  * Involved in the SDLC phases to analyze the requirement design, development, testing and deployment.  * Understanding the functional requirements from business analysts and developing the server side modules using Python.  * Providing Python programming support for the existing applications in other environments  * Implemented batch jobs using python and shell scripts. Developed the business domain layer using Python Django framework  * Loaded data into reference database using Python and MySQL connector. Develop and validated unit test cases using PYUNIT  * The system embodies a "once-and-done" workflow and information management process that integrates front-office origination, syndication, deal structuring, documentation, credit approval, portfolio monitoring and trading with back-office servicing and accounting processes  * Handle deployment of modules in Dev and integration environments. Used AJAX, JSON to send request to server to integrate with the server side modules. Worked on fixing the bugs on existing Jiras and validated in the integration environment.  * Developed prototype using Python/Django framework and using MySQL as Database. Ensured high quality data collection and maintaining the integrity of the data.  * Prepared and analyzed reports using python libraries. Used Subversion for version control and Jira for a tracking Sr. Python Developer Kindred Healthcare - Mayfield, KY February 2016 to September 2016 Responsibilities:  * Developed python modules for the vendor management inventory. Developed the business layer using Python and integrated with the web framework  * Participated in many front end development tasks and fixed production related issues. Involved in debugging to understand the code flow and did clean up in existing code Resolved issues related to requirements during system testing and UAT.  * Closely worked with QA team to resolve issues related to application and environment related issues Used Git for version control and Jira for a defect tracking. Sr. Python Developer Allergan - Somerset, KY October 2014 to July 2015 Responsibilities:  * Participated in major phases of software development cycle with requirement gathering, Unit testing, development, and analysis and design phases using Agile/SCRUM methodologies.  * Developed the business domain layer using python and Java.  * Develop the process to pick up the files and parse and insert the data into the temporary tables.  * Created the unit test cases to validate the data against the temporary database tables.  * Developed jobs to monitor the data file arrivals. Worked closely with the business team to validate the consolidation of the payments of various accounts.  * Generated end of day (EOD) reports for the various business units. Used subversion to manage the version control of the projects.  * Created batch jobs to run the reports Involved in developing SQL queries, stored procedures, and functions. Support and bug fixing and enhancement to the application. Sr. Python Developer H&M - Louisville, KY June 2014 to September 2014 Responsibilities:  * Developed instrument workflows to capture the various mechanical events from Program logic controllers using Genesis software and C.  * Developed reports using crystal reports engine. Tested and integrated the application with Genesis.  * Installed software and setup the application at the client site. Integrated and dry run the application using standalone offline PLCs.  * Validated the metric values in the database which are captured from instrument work flows. Skills PYTHON (2 years), Subversion (1 year), MYSQL (1 year), JAVA (Less than 1 year), SQL (Less than 1 year) Additional Information Technical Expertise    Languages: C, Python, Java  Databases: Oracle, Microsoft SQL Server, MYSQL    Methodologies: Waterfall, Agile/Scrum  Operating Systems: MS-DOS, UNIX, Linux, Windows 7, MAC  Tools: MatLab, PL/SQL, Eclipse, Jira, Jenkins, Git, subversion  Puppet, Chef, Anisble.  Web technologies: HTML, JavaScript, Angular JS  Others: Notepad++, Cygwin, Git Bash