Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - ALK-Abello ? Full Stack Python Developer with more than 5 years of experience specializing in all aspects of Web Development and the Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC) from planning and designing to building, testing and deploying.  ? Experience and proficiency in using Python, Javascript, Typescript, SQL, HTML5, CSS3, and Web Development frameworks including Django, Flask, Angular, REST Framework, and Bootstrap.  ? Experience and understanding of Data Science Modules and principles including Pandas, Numpy, SciPy, NumPy, Sklearn, Tensorflow, Statistical Analysis, Regression, Classification, Dimension Reduction, and Clustering.  ? Experience in creating, updating and maintaining databases using Relational Database Management Systems (RDBMS) like MySQL, SQLite, and PostgreSQL as well as NoSQL systems like MongoDB and DynamoDB.  ? Proficient in IDEs like PyCharm, Atom, VS Code, Notepad++, R Studio and tools like Postman, DB Browser, MongoDB Compass, TeamViewer, and MySQL WorkBench.  ? Knowledge and experience using AWS services like EC2, S3, ELB, Auto Scaling, Security Groups, AMIs, Lambda Functions, VPCs, SageMaker, Elastic Beanstalk, IAM, and Boto3.  ? Experience deploying and managing scalable and fault-tolerant system in AWS, AWS Lambda, and S3 Bucket.  ? Experience working with and parsing different data types like JSON, DATA files, and CSV files.  ? Knowledge of Cloud9 tool and AWS CLI to create functions and programs to interact with AWS.  ? Proficiency in creating Single-Page Applications (SPAs) using Angular 2+ using Data Binding, Event Binding, Pipes, Services, Directives, Components, Router, Form Validation.  ? Experience and understanding of the Model-View-Template (MVT) paradigm, having used it to create fully functional web applications using Flask and Django frameworks using Models, Views, HTML5/JS/CSS Templates, URLs, ORM to different databases, APIs, Serializers, and Form Validation.  ? Experience using Windows, macOS, Linux operating systems.  ? Experience with version control software (Git) and Agile (SCRUM)/JIRA production methodology. Work Experience Python Developer ALK-Abello - Port Washington, NY 2018 to Present Description: ALK-Abello is a leading provider of allergy immunotherapy, the company is Denmark based with a strong presence in the US market. The Company manufactures allergy diagnostic and treatment medications. Client-base consists of Allergy Specialists treating and testing patients in the US and in Europe. Company's management decided to develop a new web-based system from scratch to replace their manual work, which allows enhanced and automated functionality to keep track of supplies, inventory, testing and compliance. The Project was developed using Python technologies as a back end and front-end was developed using Angular, and deployment was done over to AWS EC2. The system consisted of an end-to-end manufacturing management application which works independently if needed. The first module contained an inventory system which allows the system to perform several tasks such as Inventory real-time tracking, Re-conciliation, Yearly Count, Track returns, etc. The second module was used by the Compounding department to record every aspect of the manufacturing process as per the regulations. The final module was used for testing, storing test results into database, creating new tests, validating tests, and running diagnostics. I was responsible for the development of Inventory module primarily along with other modules as when needed.  Responsibilities:  ? Involved in analysis and design of supply-management application and participated in requirements gathering and worked with architect in designing and modeling the application.  ? Built back-end of inventory management application with Django Web framework, creating a connection to a MySQL database and querying inventory data to store and handle medicine raw materials, reagents, and supplies.  ? Created, Deleted, Updated Models, Views and Templates as needed using Python and Django to connect the SQL database to templates.  ? Migrated from SQLite database to PostgreSQL and created query programs including SELECT, UPDATE, ORDER BY, INSERT, and GROUP BY, PostgreSQL had the proper security settings for a production environment.  ? Made extensive use of Python modules like Collections, Requests, BeautifulSoup, Matplotlib, Re, OS to extend Python's default functionality, make HTTP request, scrape data, and visualize it.  ? Created dynamic, validated forms using Django built-in forms and Javascript to receive user input and ensure proper data format was sent to the database.  ? Consumed third-party APIs using python HTTP Requests to import supply information from suppliers.  ? Made use of AWS S3 buckets and Bitnami virtual machine to both store and extract documents/data and test the application.  ? Responded to client's needs and suggested/implemented agreed changes.  ? Used Python and participated in entire SDLC to build application that replaces SAP functionality.  ? Customized Django built-in forms using ModelForms, Forms, Form validation to improve the functionality of the application.  ? Created custom exceptions from Python's BaseException class in Python to create specific errors for users to handle.  ? Collaborated with testing team and responded to concerns and bugs using JIRA.  ? Modeled and scraped data as needed using Beautifulsoup during investigations of new features or issues.  ? Environments: Python, Django REST API, PyCharm, VS Code, Jupyter Notebook, MySQL, SQL, CRUD, AWS, EC2, S3, JIRA, GIT, PyUnit. Python Developer Oneblood INC - Miami, FL 2016 to 2018 Description: Oneblood INC is a blood bank that provides emergency and routine blood transfusion items (Red Blood Cells, Platelets, and Plasma) to all the patients in the southern states of Florida and Georgia. The company is one of the only legal provider of blood in the state of Florida. Blood is donated to Oneblood and Oneblood handles the testing and preparation of blood samples to send to area hospitals for transfusions. I worked as part of the development team improving their system of samples and patient records. Their system was outdated and needed to be updated to comply with new federal regulations. Major technologies used were Python Django Web Framework and Angular for the front-end. The system contained separate modules for Tests, Patients, Samples, and protocols.  Responsibilities:  ? Participated in the SDLC by working with team on designing, building and testing Donor Portal application to increase donor participation and accuracy of tests.  ? Wrote multiple Django Querysets/SQL Queries using the ORM system and MySQL Workbench to create user button commands to extract donor and testing data from the management system.  ? Utilized MVT paradigm to build a responsive and secure application using Django Web Framework. Using Models to create database tables, Views to process and display donor, blood sample and testing data and Templates to display on the application.  ? Worked with large MySQL tables and data using queries like SELECT, UPDATE, ORDER BY, INSERT, and GROUP BY to create views and organize information displayed on the application.  ? Maintained program library and technical documentation adding new features and removing as needed.  ? Performed troubleshooting, fixed and modified code to remove bugs using unit tests and PyUnit.  ? Worked with development team using Agile Methodology.  ? Performed data analysis using Pandas and related libraries like NumPy, SciPy to find patterns in blood types and donor information to improve donations.  ? Added unit tests and improved existing ones using unittest module.  ? Deployed application using AWS EC2 and all its components utilizing existing user groups, VPCs, and load balancing settings and modifying and creating settings where appropriate.  ? Wrote scalable, highly reusable code using PEP 8 principles so current and future colleagues can read, understand and use the code.  Environments: Python, Django, Flask, Angular, REST API, PyCharm, VS Code, Jupyter Notebook, MySQL, SQL, CRUD, AWS, EC2, Bloodbank, unittest, PyUnit, GIT. Python Developer Miami-Dade County Mosquito Control - Miami, FL 2016 to 2016 Description: When the Zika outbreak reached South Florida the state and federal government collaborated to form a task force with the purpose of controlling, monitoring and eliminating the threat from US soil. Zika is a mosquito-borne virus that caused birth defects in Latin America and it was crucial that its presence in the US was eliminated. The county of Miami-Dade subcontracted Clarke mosquito control to assist in the process. Clarke initially created a system to track mosquito traps, poison wells, and positive cases of Zika. I entered the project as part of a team to maintain the system modules that handled forms for recording positive cases and the module that kept track of the physical locations of mosquito poison wells. The project was built with Python Django Web Framework and Angular for the front-end.  Responsibilities:  ? Collaborated in the SDLC process by working with teammates on building, testing, and deploying Mosquito Control portal to organize communications between the teams working on the ground.  ? Performed complex query operations using SELECT, UPDATE, ORDER BY, INSERT, and GROUP BY on MySQL tables and data to create views and organize information to print team and weekly reports.  ? Employed the MVT system in Django to maintain and modify application. Using Models to create database tables, Views to process and display patient/case/mosquito information, and Templates to display data to the team and local government.  ? Combined the querying capabilities of MySQL and Django Querysets to store positive-case demographic information, mosquito trap contents and geographical coordinates so that the medical team could make house visits to affected households and neighborhood area.  ? Performed troubleshooting, fixed and modified code to remove bugs using unit tests and PyUnit.  ? Collaborated with development team working through JIRA using SCRUM methodology.  ? Added unit tests and improved existing ones using PyUnit module.  ? Interacted with AWS EC2 instances using Lambda functions to add, remove and modify content in the application system.  ? Wrote scalable, highly reusable code using PEP 8 principles so current and future colleagues can read, understand and use the code.  Environments: Python, Django Angular, PyCharm, VS Code, Jupyter Notebook, MySQL, SQL, CRUD, AWS, EC2, Bloodbank, unittest, PyUnit, GIT, PyCharm. Data Scientist Sonic Healthcare Group - Hicksville, NY 2014 to 2016 Description: Sonic Healthcare Group is a chain of medical laboratories operating in major Metropolitan areas in the US, controlled by an HQ in Austin, Texas. The company is a federation of semi-independently controlled laboratories providing services to their local communities. They cooperate to cut testing costs by exchanging samples between laboratories based on equipment availability and cost. I helped reduce costs by analyzing test and patient data to determine the most effective ways to complete all the tests on schedule and on budget.  Responsibilities:  ? Gathered, aggregated and cleaned patient/testing data from a host of sources including consuming APIs, MySQL databases and MongoDB and scraping using Beautifulsoup from external websites.  ? Explored patient and testing data using Python modules like NumPy, SciPy, Scikit-Learn, Pandas.  ? Visualized data using Seaborn module and matplotlib to better understand data, created scatterplots, bar graphs, pie charts, histograms.  ? Normalized data using an appropriate method (log, square, square-root, etc.), used Numpy or a custom function when appropriate.  ? Worked with dimensionality reduction techniques like PCA to reduce large datasets into management chunks.  ? Used regression models like Linear Regression, Decision Trees, and Random Forests to fit data and predict continuous variables.  ? Employed several classification algorithms including Naïve Bayes, Random Forest, Support Vector Machines, Logistic Regression to predict classes.  ? Used clustering methods like K-Means and KNN to find hidden patterns in data and create new labels.  ? Used Regularization techniques such as L1 and L2 and Elastic net to balance variance - bias tradeoff.  ? Presented results to team members and management using Powerpoint.  Environment: Jupyter Notebook, Anaconda, Python, Pandas, SciPy, NumPy, Scikit-Learn, PyCharm, Excel, PowerPoint, Antrim, Apollo. Skills AMAZON WEB SERVICES, DJANGO, FRONT-END, Git, HTML Additional Information Technical Skills:  Programming Languages Python, Typescript, JavaScript, SQL, R  Databases MySQL, SQLite, PostgreSQL, MongoDB, Dynamo DB  Front-End Development Angular, Bootstrap, HTML, CSS  Back-End Development Django, Flask, Rest Framework, Tastypie  Tools Git, Postman, MySQL Workbench, VS Code, PyCharm, DB Browser, MongoDB Compass, Notepad++, R Studio, JIRA, Filezilla  Data Science  Linear Regression, Decision Trees, Random Forests, K-Means, KNN, Logistic Regression, Support Vector Machines, Pandas, PCA, NumPy, SciPy, Time Series Analysis, Scikit-Learn.    Amazon Web Services (AWS) IAM, VPC, RDS, EBS, Lambda functions, Elastic Beanstalk, EC2, Auto Scaling, Load Balancing.