Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Apple San Carlos, CA Work Experience Python Developer Apple March 2019 to Present Developed Python package of forecasting methods in Pandas library to forecast the sales of the products and deployed it on the Apple  cloud.  ? Developed Python-based API's (Restful webservice) to call the forecast methods and other python packages.  ? Developed custom API's in Pandas library to create, delete and lookup of the dataframe in a local memory.  ? Designing and developing web-based system in a Django web framework to improve business intelligence, logistics, manage inventory  and sales, forecast demand. The system will be used by over one hundred apple employees. LIVE CHAT APP August 2018 to December 2018 Developed web based social network application in which registered users post and read  ? Messages. Design and developed messaging platform for real time chat between the users.  ? Users can post messages to their walls so that everyone can see that posts.  ? It provides text-based instant messaging service to users. Users can chat with their friends and family members. Design database schema  to store data about users, their messages, posts and the friends they follow  ? Developed API to performed CRUD operation on database. CAR SHARING WEBSITE February 2018 to May 2018 Developed website for car sharing application to find ride and post rides to public portal. Design relational database schema to store data  about users, rides and their routes  ? Add google Map to the website to find out the route of the ride to finding and posting ride to that particular route.  Third party API key (Google map) is generated to add google map.  ? Users can sign in for the website and can Log In by using his credentials and can build his profile on the website.  PHP is used for server-side development to fetch the rides information from the database.  ? Design and developed SQL database schema to store information of users and rides. Software Engineer Intern Pamtsoft June 2015 to June 2016 Server-side application development with PHP (Laravel) and Python (Flask).  ? Developed RESTful web services and performed CRUD operations on the database server over HTTP and to consume web services for transferring data between different applications.  ? Understanding and analyzing business requirements. Participated in all phases of SLDC.  ? Involved in designing use case diagrams, class diagrams and sequence diagram as the part of design phase.  ? implemented interactive front-end web pages using JavaScript and participated in software development using Agile/scrum  development process and closely with the team in early product phases to facilitate agile development methodology. Education Master of Science in Object Oriented Programming and Design Texas A & M University August 2016 to May 2018 Bachelor of Engineering in Electronic Engineering University of Pune - Pune, Maharashtra August 2011 to May 2015 Skills Django, Git, Javascript, Php, Laravel, Python, Flask, Keras, Numpy, Pandas, Mysql, Web services, Mongodb, Version control Additional Information SKILLSET  ? Programming Languages: Python (NumPy, Pandas, Keras), JavaScript, PHP  ? Web Development: Flask, Django, Laravel  ? Databases: MySQL, MongoDB  ? Version Control: Git  ? Web Services: RESTful