Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer Jersey City, NJ • Around 5 Years of experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Management and Implementation of various stand-alone, client-server enterprise applications.  • Good experience in Python, Django, Zope, Bottle.py, Pyramid Framework.  • Working Knowledge of Pandas, Numpy, Scipy. Good working knowledge of Deep Learning Python libraries.  • Experience of software development in Python (libraries used: libraries- BeautifulSoup, numpy, scipy, matplotlib, python-twitter, OpenCV, Pandas dataframe, networkx, urllib2, MySQLdb for database connectivity) and IDEs - sublime text, Spyder, pycharm, emacs.  • Having experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Experienced in MVW frameworks like Django, Angular.js, Java Script, JQuery and Node.js.  • Proficient in Front end development experience using HTML, XML, CSS, JQuery, JSON and Javascript, CSS, Bootstrap.  • Strong expertise in development of web based applications using Python, Java, HTML, XML, KML, Angular JS, CSS, DHTML, JavaScript, JSON and JQuery.  • Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, Python/PHP) Architecture.  • Expert knowledge of and experience in Object oriented Design and Programming concepts.  • Excellent experience with Python development under Linux OS (Debian, Ubuntu, SUSE Linux, RedHat Linux, Fedora).  • Experience object oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, C++ and PHP.  • Proficient in SQL databases MySQL, Oracle and no-SQL databases MongoDB, Cassandra, Sqlite 3.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Excellent experience with Python development under Linux OS (Debian, Ubuntu, SUSE Linux, RedHat Linux, Fedora).  • Good knowledge of server Apache Tomcat, Web logic. Well versed in writing unit test cases and Selenium test cases.  • Ability to manage (Multiple) project tasks with changing priorities and tight deadlines. Ability to work well in a team. Open to Team related tasks, team meetings, team interaction and conference calls.  • Demonstrated ability to work well with a wide variety of people at various levels, foster cooperation and collaboration among individuals in the work unit, help team resolve conflicts constructively and ability and willingness to communicate when help is needed.  • A Self starter with a positive attitude, willingness to learn new concepts and acceptance of challenges.    TECHNICAL SKILLS SET:    Languages Python, C++, Java, Shell Script, Perl, SQL  Databases MongoDB, Apache Cassandra, MySQL, SQL Server, Oracle  Web Technologies JSP, Servlets, JavaBeans, JDBC, AWT, JSF, XML, DHTML, AngularJS, Node.js, Django, HTML, CSS, DOM, AJAX, SAX, JavaScript/JQuery  Frameworks Django, Flask, Pyramid, Spring and CSS Bootstrap  Development Tools Microsoft SQL Studio, DbVisualizer, Eclipse,NetBeans, PyCharm, MySQLWorkbench, Sublime text  Deployment Tools Heroku, Jenkins Work Experience Python Developer CenterPoint Energy - Houston, TX July 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Analyzed and Designed application and created UI using JavaScript and HTML5/CSS. Implemented business logic using Python/Django.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Created backend database T-SQL stored procedures and Jasper Reports.  • Worked with millions of database records on a daily basis, finding common errors and bad data patterns and fixing them.  • Exported/Imported data between different data sources using SQL Server Management Studio.  • Maintained program libraries, users' manuals and technical documentation.  • Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Thorough knowledge in various front end tools like HTML, DHTML,CSS, JavaScript, XML, JQuery, Angular JS, and AJAX  • Hands-on experience in writing and reviewing requirements, architecture documents, test plans, design documents, quality analysis and audits.  • Built various graphs for business decision-making using Python matplotlib library.  • Fetched twitter feeds for certain important keyword using python-twitter library.  • Used Python library Beautiful Soup for webscrapping.ss.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  • Created most important Business Rules which are useful for the scope of project and needs of customers  • Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  • Work with team of developers on python applications for RISK management.  • Taken part in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Implementation, Testing and support. Created project designs utilizing MVC architecture components.  • Used Pandas library for statistics Analysis and added support for open stock.  • Created most important Business Rules which are useful for the scope of project and needs of customers.  • Designed the architecture of the hardware environments and methodology of the code  • Experienced in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM Process and added unit tests and improved existing ones.  • Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all of its commands.  • Refactored existing project to make it more Restful and thread-safe.  • Designed Restful XML web service for handling AJAX requests.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django, HTML5/CSS, SVN, Jasper, JavaScript, Eclipse, Shell Scriptingo, RESTful, MVC3, AWS S3 CLI, MS SQL Server, UNIX, Linux, Windows. Python Developer The Home Depot - Atlanta, GA November 2015 to June 2017 Responsibilities:  • Designed database Model, Views and API's using Python for interactive web based solutions.  • Used data into JSON files using Python to test Django websites.  • Used Python scripts to update the content in database and manipulate files.  • Used Django Framework in developing web applications to implement the model view control architecture along with Django's ORM model.  • Developed web based application using Django framework with python concepts.  • Generated Python Django forms to maintain the record of online users.  • Used Django API's to access the database.  • Worked on server side applications with Django using Python programming and used python libraries like Beautiful Soup, Matplotlib, Scipy, NumPy and Built efficient Node.js backend for client web application.  • Developed tools to automate some base tasks using Python, Shell scripting and XML.  • Implemented NLP classifier using Keras CNN for faster case resolution of user complaints.  • Developed anomaly detection cron job on Google Analytics data using Python, Pandas and Jinja2.  • Build a TensorFlow Object Detection transfer learning model for custom dataset of client.  • Built data pipelines and data transformation jobs using Boto, Pandas, NumPy for Google Analytics Data and Amazon Redshift Data.  • Used PyQt to implement GUI for the user to create, modify and view reports based on client data.  • Developed efficient Angular.js for client web based application.  • Working in team of Architects and Developers to build and deploy Python Flask Peewee Linux AWS.  • Responsible for designing, developing, testing, deploying and maintaining the web application.  • Involved in working with Python open stock API's.  • Design, develop, and deploy engaging web applications using Python.  • Develop applications that use MongoDB database, and PyMongo.  • Wrote Python code embedded with JSON and XML to produce HTTP GET request, parsing HTML data from websites.  • Wrote Python code to simplify lists in Python with list comprehension and Python OOP. Worked with POSTMAN for API testing. Developed REST APIs, and created User Model for application.  • Cloud. Involved in front end and utilized Bootstrap and Angular.js for page design.  • Created Data tables utilizing PyQt to display customer and policy information and add, delete, update customer records.  • Experienced in using advanced PostgreSQL/MYSQL features like table partitioning and diverse types of oracle indexing. Backup and Restore experience with PostgreSQL/ MYSQL database backups and point in time recovery.  • Developed RESTful web services for Catalog and Pricing with Django MVT, MySQL, and MongoDB.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery and Angular JS.    Environment: Python, Django, SciPy, Pandas, Numpy, XML, JSON, JavaScript, JQuery, PostgreSQL, Flask, AngularJS, Backbone JS, Restful Web services, Git, MySQL, Linux, Windows. Python Developer Orative - San Jose, CA August 2014 to October 2015 Responsibilities:  • Used Django framework for application development.  • Developed user interface using, CSS, HTML, JavaScript and JQuery& Ruby on rails.  • Assisted in reduction of cost and optimization of supplier selection for the CRM Applications.  • Ensured high quality data collection and maintaining the integrity of the data.  • Cleaned data and processed third party spending data into maneuverable deliverables within specific formats with Excel macros and python libraries.  • Used several python libraries like wxPython, numPY and matPlotLib.  • Involved in environment, code installation as well as the SVN implementation.  • Build all database mapping classes using Django models and Cassandra.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code  • This project also used other technologies like JQuery for java script manipulations, bootstrap for the front-end html layout.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Developed, tested and debugged software tools utilized by clients and internal customers.  • Coded test programs and evaluated existing engineering processes.  • Designed and configured database and back end applications and programs.  • Performed research to explore and identify new technological platforms.  • Collaborated with internal teams to convert end user feedback into meaningful and improved solutions.  • Resolved ongoing problems and accurately documented progress of a project.    Environment: Python, scipy, Pandas, BugZilla, SVN, C++, Java, JQuery, HTML, CSS MySQL, Eclipse, Shell Scripting, Apache RUBY, Cassandra, Red hat Linux, Windows. Education Bachelor's Skills APACHE, LINUX, IIS, TOMCAT, WEBLOGIC