Consultant Consultant Encino, CA Seeking a challenging position as a Software Developer or Technical Lead to utilize and augment my development and leadership skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Consultant Santa Monica, CA May 2017 to Present CA  Software Engineer  ? TDD for MVP using Python / Django / jQuery / Angular  ? Develop and Implement Code for Public Site and CMS  ? Implement Cloud Architecture on AWS (EC2, RDS, Elasticache, S3, Cloudfront)  ? Implement Async Task Queueing (Celery) to improve CMS UX  ? Develop and Implement Bulk Media Importer  ? Integrate Draggable Grid Media Sorting  ? Optimize DB Queries VP Engineering ALLDay Media Inc - Beverly Hills, CA December 2014 to February 2017 Build Engineering and Devops teams from the ground up ? Identify causes of platform instability and fix  ? Scale platform to 46M + unique visitors per month  ? Implement CMS and Website enhancements  ? Create architecture for automated ad buying platform  ? Create architecture for internal analytics dashboards  ? Hands on Python, Django and Angular coding for all platforms Python/Django Developer Whalerock Industries - Santa Monica, CA July 2013 to December 2014 Develop eCommerce Subscription Service for Video Platform  ? Develop API Backend to Power Apps for Major Brands  ? Implement caching and queuing layers for high performance  ? UI development: HTML, CSS and JQuery  ? Software Maintenance and Enhancements Senior Software Engineer Maker Studios - Culver City, CA June 2011 to July 2013 Develop high performance Django websites for High Traffic Youtubers  ? Develop and enhance internal dashboards for traffic, analytics, and revenue  ? Implement caching and queuing layers for high performance  ? UI development: HTML, CSS and JQuery  ? Software Maintenance and Enhancements Software Developer (contract) Threshold Interactive - Culver City, CA August 2010 to February 2011 Develop modules and modify existing modules on Nestle web properties: butterfinger.com, arrowheadwater.com, nestle-purelife.us  ? Develop and modify existing modules on literatireader.com  ? Develop Facebook applications and server side code to integrate with third party services for butterfinger.com coupon download initiatives  ? Front end development: HTML, CSS and JQuery  ? Modify comps with Photoshop CS5 Software Developer (contract) Pera Media - Studio City, CA March 2010 to August 2010 Develop and deploy custom ecommerce solutions  ? Python coding and Django template development to extend the open source shopping cart platform, Satchmo  ? Extend Django models to create custom product templates for easy maintenance and improve cart performance  ? Front end development: HTML, CSS and JQuery  ? Create new design layout and graphics with Photoshop CS 5 Senior Developer Ionic Media - Encino, CA December 2007 to March 2010 Lead initiative to migrate from the .NET platform to Linux/Apache/ Python/Django (LAPD)  ? Implemented Agile management process, SCRUM  ? Develop and integrate presentation layer, business layer, and data layer components for web based ad campaign management tools  ? Design and develop database schemas, stored procedures, views, and triggers to function across various Winforms applications, web applications, and console applications  ? Develop web services layer to facilitate ad campaign management through connecting to third party APIs using Python, .NET and SOAP Web Developer (contract) NET and T-SQL - Studio City, CA February 2007 to December 2007 Develop scalable backend and front end solutions for data driven social network and online dating segments. White hat SEO  ? Coding in C#, VB.NET and T-SQL. Implemented Stored Procedures in SQL Server 2005 to develop online dating community. Develop modular dynamic and static global site components  ? Front end development with CSS, Standards Compliant XHTML, and JavaScript to develop front end cross browser/cross platform client side solutions Software Developer / Technical Producer Walt Disney Internet Group - N Hollywood, CA December 2000 to February 2007 implemented technical solutions for major market Disney owned websites: SOAPNET.com, ABCFamily.com and DisneyChannel.com  ? Utilize web scripting, markup and template languages: JavaScript, HTML, CSS, TEA, and Java to develop and interface templates with the proprietary Disney Content Management System, Go Publish  ? Develop modular static and dynamic global site components.  ? Develop sweepstakes, community, and registration templates to meet critical deadlines that synch up with major market on air television promotions  ? Utilize template languages to generate JavaScript code/functionality for automation of site updates Senior Site Integrator (Front End Developer) Feed The Monster Media - Burbank, CA November 1999 to December 2000 Responsible for front end development and maintenance of major market radio station websites: KROQ.com, WBCN.com, B96.com, and KFWB.com  ? Implement JavaScript and ASP to ensure cross-browser/cross platform consistency, form validation, plugin detection. Modify back end coding for registration forms, mailers, and sweepstakes Education Certification in Introduction to Machine Learning Stanford 2016 Bachelor of Science in Business Management Pepperdine University - Malibu, CA 2003 to 2005 AA in Liberal Arts Santa Monica College - Santa Monica, CA 1997 to 2002 Skills Python, Django, Javascript, jQuery, AngularJS, HTML, CSS, Elasticsearch, Celery, AWS, Restful Web Services (10+ years)