Django/ Python Software Developer Django/<span class="hl">Python</span> Software <span class="hl">Developer</span> Contract Django/ Python Software Developer - Unicon, Inc Louisville, CO Skilled Django Web developer able to find creative solutions to unique problems. Work Experience Django/ Python Software Developer Unicon, Inc June 2012 to Present Responsibilities  One of two software engineers responsible for enhancing and maintaining a Django application that interfaces LMS (Learning Management) systems to CourseSmart backend.     Accomplishments  Added automated system integration tests. Updated deployment system first to Fabric and later to SaltStack. Integrated a Raven/Sentry logging system into the application. Integrated GoodData system with the CourseSmart Service Hub. Refactored application to simplify debugging and maintenance. Added features as required by customer. Migrated the system from Django 1.2.1 to Django 1.6.x     Skills Used  This work has involved working with GoodData, RRDonnelly (Print On Demand), Selenium, XML, JSON, JQuery, Sentry/Raven, Docker, Fabric, LTI, Git, SaltStack, Django, Apache, New Relic and MySql. The software is deployed on multiple AWS servers running Ubuntu.     The primary project management tools used for this application are Jira and Confluence. Web Application Developer MadLabs Media Group June 2008 to Present Design and develop software for the Internet. Specifically Django based web sites and data  mining using Beautiful Soup ( Python). Software development for  Django/JQuery/Pinax/Satchmo based web sites (www.ask4prayer.com,  www.mymommemories.com, profiles.wilhelmina.com, profiles.w-talent.com,  www.waypointcity.com(gps), www.vuka.com, www.premierimage.com, and a roommate  matching site). Setup and adminster Trac/Git/Mercurial for several of the above projects Site  administration for the above sites. Project estimates. Founder and Owner Hooked On Flies, LLC October 2002 to Present Designed, developed, manage and administer an eCommerce company that sells fishing flies and related products. The design of this site incorporated a responsive design, so that it  would be accessible from laptops and phones as well as pcs. Analyzed competition and identified areas of weakness. Designed/Developed custom web sites (Plone and Zope based,  now on Django) that exploited the competitions weaknesses. Managed Google Adwords and  Adsense accounts Setup and administered the Linux (Debian) server for the site. Reviewed and contracted vendors in Kenya, Thailand, and Sri Lanka. Co-Founder - President Denver Direct Dial, LLC - Denver, CO October 1993 to April 2001 Denver Direct Dial was an intralata long-distance telephone company. Designed software and systems for processing intralata long-distance calls (based on Dialogic cards) Developed  IVR system for customer service (Dialogic hardware). Developed billing/customer service  system (Delphi with a Paradox database) Designed web site for Denver Direct Dial Managed  day-to-day operations Strategic planning (market expansion) Reviewed marketing strategies  Administrator for Linux/NT network Reviewed potential business opportunities (VoIP,  Internet-based Fax services etc.) Engineering Manager International Language Engineering April 1992 to May 1993 Managed the engineering department of International Language Engineering, a software  localization firm. Managed localization engineers. Managed system administrators. Resource and strategic planning. Hired engineering personnel Architect for localization tools that  reduced translation time of software by 30%. Responsible for hardware and software  purchasing Spearheaded development of BBS system for communication of files with external language translator contractors. Prior to this all files were sent and received via  Express mail or courier services. Project Manager International Language Engineering April 1991 to April 1992 Managed software localization projects. Created project schedules, and identified critical  paths Conducted project review meetings Developed presentations for customers. Advised  customers on localization. Created project status reports for customers. Primary liaison between customer and ILE Senior International Application Engineer Cadnetix January 1986 to April 1990 As the first person assigned to Tokyo, I acted as liaison between the Far East distributors and the headquarters of Cadnetix, a CAE/CAD/CAM company. Conducted marketing research to  determine requirements for penetrating the Asian market: Japan, Korea, Taiwan, and  Singapore. Liaison for customers and distributors and headquarters Conducted trade shows in Korea and Japan Participated in product review cycles at headquarters Advised  distributors on sales and marketing strategies Directed sales meetings. Helped establish  offices; and Singapore Provided technical support training to customers and distributors  Resolved customer problems Developed and delivered presentations to potential customers  Installed and configures Sun Microsystems computers at customer sites Was primary system  administrator for Tokyo office Customized product for end users Repaired equipment  (computer workstations) if distributor was unable to resolve the problem Design Engineer Regional Technology Center June 1984 to January 1986 Provided support for the local sales field office. This entailed the following: Designed  software and hardware for external customers, such as a consumer telephone, a commercial  thermostat, and a modem board for a personal computer. Instructor for TMS 320 Digital  Signal Processing, TMS 7000 Microprocessor, Field Sales, and Programmable Logic courses.  Estimated chip sizes for standard cell quotes. Converted SSI and MSI designs to semi-custom  standard cell designs. This included performing simulations on Engineering Workstations  (Daisy and Mentor Graphics) Design Engineer Defense Suppression Equipment Group January 1983 to June 1984 Hardware design engineer for ARM-PAK, a launcher mounted avionics system developed to integrate the HARM missile onto a variety of fighter aircraft. Lead hardware engineer after 6  months. Designed 1553B interface and aircraft simulator boards. Redesigned the video  monitor board. Supported flight tests Analyzed and solved thermal problems Wrote proposal  documents System engineer on proprietary black project. Developed initial specifications for hardware and software. Developed presentations for customer orientation. Education BS in Electrical Engineering Southern Illinois University 1975 to 1982 Links http://www.mymommemories.com http://www.ask4prayer.com http://profiles.wilhelminadenver.com Additional Information Specialties: Django, Python, Docker, Pinax, Sentry, Git, JQuery, GoodData API, IMS  Learning Tools Interoperability, Beautiful Soup, Bootstrap, Django-Shop, Satchmo,  Mercurial, Docker, Facebook Connect, PostgreSQL, MySQL, Selenium WebDriver, NewRelic,  and Google Voice API.  I've deployed apps to AWS, Webfaction and RackSpace.    SKILLS Python Git  Linux Django  C++ System Administration  Trac Facebook API  Atlassian JIRA Fabric  Google Voice API Beautiful Soup/Data Mining  BitBucket GoodData API  Selenium WebDriver NewRelic  Docker