Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Software Engineer Bedminster, NJ To obtain a full-time position as Sr. Software Engineer. Status: US citizen. Available after 07/2017. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer AT&T August 2016 to March 2017 Worked on development of python based applications for processing customer orders and service requests.  Provided solutions for implementation of complex business logic in the web app for automating BO processes.  Lead logical part of Email Extraction project. Participated in development of database model and middleware  artifacts. Developed backend using Django framework, python modules, DB model with MySQL/MariaDB.  Django middleware with Rest APIs. Front-to-backend communication using Http, Rest APIs, Json, and Ajax.  Front end development using Django templates, HTML5, and Javascript: Nodejs, jQuery, React, and Redux.  Styling with CSS and bootstrap. Testing with python unit test and selenium; nightwatch. Code management  using Git and Bitbucket repository. Integration using Jenkins. Deployment in Docker. Used Jira for project  management and Wiki for documentation. Agile dev environment with bi-weekly sprints and daily scrums. Sr. Software Porting Engineer Oracle (IBM contractor) - Liberty Corner, NJ September 2010 to May 2016 • Worked on porting and certification of Oracle FMW products (SOA Suite, WebCenter Portal, WLS) on IBM platforms (AIX, zLinux) using J2EE and ADF technologies. Reviewed functional specs and ensured product portability for Oracle 11g (PS5, PS6, PS7) and 12c releases. Performed full system testing and certified product quality on zLinux. Developed functional test cases. Worked with product dev teams, QA teams, and RMs on resolution of issues. Technologies: Oracle DB 11g and 12c, WebLogic, FMW Infra, NG, SOA 12c, WebCenter, UCM, OHS, RCU, BPEL, DTE, JDev, ADF.  • Developed internal web applications and test automations for FMW products in heterogeneous environment. Improved detection of issues in the earlier stages of product development. Enhanced matching and triaging techniques to ensure proper classification of issues.  • Improved team's productivity by creating interactive web-based Dashboards for visualization and analysis of product issues, test results, and sprint assignments (JIRA) using Oracle BI Product (11.1.1.7, 11.1.1.9, and 12.2.1). OBIEE Dashboards were designed to provide a uniform just-in-time data view for efficient tracking of bugs and communication of issues across multiple teams, as well as assisting Managers, RMs, Devs, and QA engineers in their daily operations by providing various tooling and customizations. Dashboards featured prompted inputs, actionable links, interactive graphs, historical timeline, custom KPIs, data aggregations, details drill down, catching runaway bugs, distribution of reports via e-mails, and more. Dashboards were instrumental for release management, project planning, tracking of critical issues and driving them to closure, post-mortem analysis and defining new goals for next release cycle.  • Contributed to the resolution of complex issues with IIOP and SSL protocols, JMS thin client support, XML parsers, Security and Classloading issues with IBM JDK.  • Lead several projects with remote teams in India. Skilled in agile software development in conjunction with JIRA.  • Conducted regular discussions with business partners regarding hardware resources, product requirements, new features, test coverage, tooling, status, ideas, and permanent solutions for critical customer issues.  • Written documentation using Confluence Wiki, Oracle Collaboration, and Microsoft Office Apps.  • Participated in development of automated code quality evaluation system for ensuring software compliance with Oracle coding standards and checklist requirements across multiple organizations (ARQUES Project). Developed Java plug-ins for SonarQube server. Created rules for preemptive detection of software issues in source code and binaries (Java rules, FindBug rules, XML XPath rules, Script rules, Security rules).  • Worked on planning and developed internal documentation. Managed up to 30 Linux guest clients on z/VM.  • Participated in research for cross-platform performance monitoring and stress testing for WLS product.  • Worked on identification and specifications of requirements for Porting Checklist and Tagging Guidelines for porting bugs.  • Implemented a stand-alone framework for scanning FMW products from install location and validating code against Install & Config checklists. Framework featured Ant driven Java application bundled with Oracle GetSources, DTEs, and Hudson continuous integration.  • Created multiple internal tools for test automation, product configuration, service wiring, and results analysis  • Participated in the development 3rdParty software analysis tool using python, shell scripts, and Hudson.  • Performed regular data analysis for daily team operations in areas such as test coverage, product release and sign-off, agile planning, checklist waivers, bugs tracking and more.  • Technologies used: Java, J2EE, Shell scripting, Python, Perl, Ant, Maven, GIT, DTE topologies, Hudson/Jenkins continues integration, Selenium testing, SonarQube, JFrog Artifactory, Coherence, WC/UCM, JConsole, cron, system tools such as nmon, truss, and dtrace. Sr. Software Engineer Lockheed Martin - Owego, NY September 2008 to June 2009 Worked on development of middleware artifacts for the CACHE project. Implemented complex multithreaded components using Java core technologies. Proposed significant design improvements and numerous new features for applications. Edited design documentation and written test procedures. Performed complete testing of the software. Interfaced with Oracle DB via Stored Procedures interface, WebSphere Message Broker via WebSphere MQ, and EMS clients via SSH socket connections. Developed encryption component, system configuration editor, remote Service Controller, and shared Logging module. Updated most of the infrastructure modules from a common library. Designed and implemented system testing and workload framework featuring numerous configurations for simulating real world scenarios. The test framework detected multiple issues across all system components. Software Engineer / Web Developer, STG IBM - Poughkeepsie, NY January 2007 to March 2008 Worked as a web application developer on WebSphere platform. Worked on all components of SOA project (UberStock) using WID with ESB on Linux X64 & Z/OS. Created mediation flows, controller, and application front-end layers. Developed new panels, control servlets, and middleware data objects for the application using RAD7 IDE on WAS 6.1 server. Participated in updating security constrains for web applications. Hands-on experience with Servlets, Servlet filters, JSPs, Active Form-based authentication techniques. Developed JIBE automations and workloads using WebSphere Studio Workload Simulator. Systems Advisor / Programmer IBM Systems Technology Group - Endicott, NY April 2005 to October 2006 Worked on development and support of web-based Hardware Management Consol for Z series mainframes. Developed applets with framework data portals for editing system configuration files and viewing large log files. Participated in development of Custom Tags, TLDs, and modification of component renders. Code refactoring. Created new Cascading Style Sheets and updated existing CSS, which significantly enhanced application view. Worked on color schemas and created new images for application web interface. Worked on development of Panel Tasklets for several components using Java Beans, Servlets, Javascript, and platform specific markup. Investigated and fixed HMC/SE framework defects in production from medium to high-level complexity. Worked on development of web components for HMC panels (tree-table, spinner, editable combo-box, etc). Software Testing Engineer, Technology Services (QA) Thomson West (Reuters) - Rochester, NY August 2002 to March 2005 Worked on development of software testing tools. Performed full cycle software testing. Tracked software issues. Wrote tech. documentation including software modeling. Assessed software requirements and developed test cases. Designed and implemented software test harnesses and test frameworks using Java. Developed automation scripts using Perl and SilkTest for web applications. Wrote deployment scripts using Ant and DOS Batch. Worked on multiple software projects including publishing and strategic development components. Tested XML-based applications. Wrote compact JDBC modules to query Oracle DB for data validation automations. Worked in Win2000 environment with remote access to UNIX/Linux machines. Performed various types of testing including Smoke, Functional, API, Integration, Regression, Robustness, Data Validation, and Performance testing. Supported co-workers in programming related issues. Education Master of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science Binghamton University (Watson School of Engineering) - Binghamton, NY January 2010 Bachelor of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science Rochester Institute of Technology - Rochester, NY September 2003 Associate of Science in Systems Technology & Computer Science in Systems Technology & Computer Science Monroe Community College - Rochester, NY May 2000 Skills architecture (Less than 1 year), Artificial Intelligence (Less than 1 year), B2B SOFTWARE (Less than 1 year), Testing (10+ years), Java (10+ years), Python (3 years), J2EE (4 years), SOA (4 years), Oracle 11G (5 years), Django (1 year), OBIEE (3 years), Weblogic (3 years), Hudson/Jenkins (3 years), Maven (2 years), Git (3 years), Javascript (2 years), React.js (Less than 1 year), Redux (Less than 1 year), SQL (5 years), MySQL (2 years), Servlets (2 years), Jsp (2 years), JIRA (3 years), Linux (8 years), zLinux (5 years), Microservices (Less than 1 year) Additional Information PROFESSIONAL SKILLS:  Computer Science and Software Engineering  • Acquired conceptual and practical experience in broad areas of information technology and computer  science. Explored computer architecture, data structures, language semantics, abstractions, OS, DB, and  Network fundamentals. Completed undergraduate CS concentration in Artificial Intelligence  • Explored principals of agile project management. Gained practical experience in development and testing.  • Learned software modeling and utilization of Software Design Patterns (UML, MVC, Rational Rose)    SKILLS: Hobbies: Chess, Forex, History, Automotive, Technologies, Astronomy and science.