Systems Architect Systems Architect Systems Architect II - A.A.C Frisco, TX I have been designing and developing software since 1997 and have worked a variety of projects in a variety of industries. I am interested in working with multiple development tool-chains and mobile devices. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Architect Balfour / Taylor Publishing - Dallas, TX January 2014 to Present At Balfour I am responsible for designing and implementing a core services and systems that are used by multiple products, lines of business and, thousands of concurrent users.  • Designed and developed a federated identity management system using Python, Flask, RabbitMQ and OpenStack Keystone.  • Designed and implemented various ReST APIs and services with Python, Flask and RabbitMQ.  • Minor DevOps work deploying configuring and deploying services and applications in AWS and private cloud resources using Salt, Bamboo and, Fabric.  • Collaborating to design and implement a datacenter and a "data mart" to 'normalize' reporting and enable in-house analytics.  • Mentored jr. Python Programmers and jr. QA Resources.  • Ported Legacy Java services to Python/Flask ReST APIs.  • Designed and worked closely with outsource partners to monitor code quality and manage development of a large scale Image Repository Service.  • Developed web based year book publishing system implemented as a SinglePage Web App (SPA) using AngularJS and Python. Application Architect ZeOmega - Frisco, TX October 2011 to January 2014 I work with the application, architecture, and interface teams to refactor and enhance our products to enhance scaleability, testability and reliability.  • Lead effort to implement REST services for ZeOmegas first mobile application.  • Developed prototypes for integrating existing Web Applications with RabbitMQ.  • Developed in-house testing and configuration tools using Django, CherryPy and Apache.  • Lead refactoring effort to move existing products from a monolithic to more component based architecture.  • Designed and implemented a high performance session management package for Zope using PyMongo and MongoDB.  • Worked with a penetration/security consultant to identify and mitigate security flaws in our products.  • Developed and currently leading a comprehensive security enhancement plan for ZeOmega's products based on best practices published by OWASP and others.  • Developed a Python toolkit that enables ZeOmega's products to use multiple SSO technologies including SAML, OAuth.  • Occasionally support the sales team by participating in on-site and remote technical QA session with prospective customers.  • Support customer implementation teams by participating in 'deep-dive' technical requirement discussion with customers.  • Lead a small team of developers on SCRUM-like sprints. Sr. Software Developer ZeOmega - Frisco, TX August 2010 to August 2011 I worked with application interface and integration team to build and extend public APIs and integration points for ZeOmega's flagship product Jiva.  • Designed and implemented an enhancements to ZeOmega's ETL engine.  • Made major changes to the internal and external API of the python soap library soaplib to improve quality, consistency, testability and, Zope integration.  • Developed ZeOmega's XML and XSD toolchain to support new web service APIs.  • Assisted with development of a WSRP support and integration in Python.  • Prototyped and submitted development plan python integration with the telephony and presence platform Avaya ACE.  • Designed and implemented SAML2 based single sign on (SSO) with lxml.  • Designed and implemented an extensible generic Document Management System (DMS) adapter using Python that supports arbitrary DMS vendors as well as the CMIS specification.  • Prepared training materials for the rest of the team for XML and Web Services. Consultant/ Python Web Programmer ProfitOptix - Grapevine, TX March 2010 to May 2010 Enhanced an existing Python Web Application to integrate with Medicare and Medicaid Insurance providers.  • Used soaplib to provide Web Services that enabled Health Care Providers to place and edit lens and frame prescriptions for patients.  • Modified the existing Web Application's forms and pages to streamline the interface using the jQuery and Prototype Javascript libraries.  • Built a data access layer for the soap based Web Services using SQLAlchemy.  • Used agile/scrum development methodologies by participating in Sprint Planning, timed releases, and daily 'Stand Up' meetings.  • Introduced unit tests and intergeneration tests to deal with a large undocumented code-base. Consultant/ Django & Python Programmer TheAccountGuide.com - Seattle, WA 2010 to 2010 2010  • Refactored, enhanced, and maintained a single Django application that runs more than thirty production sites on a single application instance.  • Developed several custom Administrator functions that enabled staff to handle customer requests.  • Set up integration tests and unit test on existing code base to that reduced programmer and deployment errors.  • Developed deployment automation using Fabric.  • Simplified template logic by using custom Template Tags and custom Template Filters  • Implemented a payment processing module using PayPal, Google Checkout and, Chase Paymetech web services.  • Enhanced the webs application's front end by using Google Maps and jQuery. Consultant/Programmer Sci-Tech - Frisco, TX 2009 to 2009 2009  • Developed membership / sponsorship management software.  • Designed a database for member management using PostgreSql.  • Built a Management Thick/Smart Client front end using PyQt and Python that allowed board members to track, modify and email sponsors and members Consultant/Programmer Ruttle Consulting - Addison, TX 2007 to 2007 2007  • Developed a Neighborhood Walking program used by political consultants and volunteers for local elections  • Built a Thick Client Application using Python, PyQt and, SQL object that enabled users to import large volumes of data into a PostgreSql database.  • Developed 'walking' rules based on mined data.  • Used Django to build a front end to a web application that allowed volunteers input their 'neighborhood' walking results.  • Used Unit Test and Continuous Integration to reduce errors and unexpected issues. Consultant/Programmer Wardog Studios - San Diego, CA 2006 to 2007 Back End" Game Server Development using the Multiverse.net platform.  • Used Python (C & Stackless) to script in-game events and actions.  • Used Python to develop simple scripted behavior for non-player characters.  • Used C# to modify game-client behavior and appearance.  • Setup and managed a CentOS servers that ran the game server as well as the game's MySql database server.  • Setup and managed a SVN server for code and asset management. Programmer US Auto - Addison, TX 2003 to 2006 Front and back end development of a production website using ASP.net, Javascript, C#, vb.net &, SQL server. Website was used by independent insurance agents to generate quotes for potential customers, manage their current customers as well as track and monitor their commissions.  • Used C#, Crystal Reports and, VB6 to develop next generation of Agent Auto Insurance quote engine. This quote engine was used by both a Thick Client and ASP.net web sites.  • Built a secure Payment system using SOAP, C# and MS SQL server. The payment system was used by both a Thick Client and Web application.  • Utilized Python to develop an internal auditing and reporting application used by insurance adjusters.  • Was responsible for database design and maintenance with a MS SQL Server back end.  • Developed client license monitoring software using C# and active directory.  • Introduced and maintained SVN scm and Track issue and task tracking.  • Used Unit Test and TDD where appropriate for existing and new software. Programmer EMC Mortgage Corp - Las Colinas, TX 2002 to 2003 Used C#, VB and MS SQL to develop next generation of ARM Mortgage servicing software.  • Developed mailing automation software using Python and MS Office.  • Maintained existing mortgage servicing software developed with COBOL.. Programmer Analyst Exolink Corp - Lewisville, TX 2001 to 2002 Full life cycle development of Business / Market Rules applied to XML and EDI transactions using a Java based transaction message broker and Python scripting on Windows and Linux.  • Built parsers using Python to parse formatted EDI and XML files into Flat File LayoutStructures.  • Used PL/SQL for reporting of transaction statistics and reconciliation of transaction discrepancies.  • Responsible for test case development as well as performing regression and unit tests. Process Engineer Texas Instruments - Dallas, TX 1991 to 2001 Maintained and supported a custom reporting system built using Visual Basic 6 and Java to communicate with mainframe databases via ADO.  • Composed PERL and Python scripts for parsing and formatting of statistical and parametric data  • Supported internal group website using basic HTML.  • Responsible for support of manufacturing processes of DSP and microprocessors by monitoring and improving CMP process performance and metrics. Process Engineer Texas Instruments - Chandler, AZ 1997 to 1999 Designed and built a Relational Database System using MS Access, Visual Basic, and ADO for tracking process metrics such as MTBF and MTTR as well as process solutions.  • Responsible for leading team based approaches to equipment installation and process qualifications.  • Responsible for process development for new products on site at customer locations in North America, Europe, and Southeast Asia. Education BS in Physics Arizona State University 1997 Additional Information SKILLS  Programming Languages: Python, C#, Java, Javascript, HTML, CSS, XML, SQL, C, and C++.  Server Technologies: SOAP, ReST, SQL Server, MySQL, PostgreSQL and, Active Directory.  SCMs: Git, Mercurial, SVN.  Libraries and Toolkits: Django, Flask, soaplib, JQuery .Net, Qt, Win Forms, ASP.net and Zope2.  Operating Systems: Windows, Linux, OS X.