Principal Software Engineer Principal Software Engineer Austin, TX An experienced software engineer, who is a team player and enjoys new challenges. Has over ten years of increasing responsibility and enjoys being part of a team or leading a team to greater accomplishments. Worked on a wide range of projects and languages, the strongest being Python, with strong object-oriented design and development techniques. Strong focus has been on user interface design and object-oriented reuse and extensibility. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Principal Software Engineer Eventador.io - Austin, TX September 2018 to Present Designed and implemented deployment APIs and micro services to bring up customer SAAS environments in AWS and google cloud services. Updated and implemented changes to customer facing console sites to introduce features and improvements. Senior Solutions Architect HyperGiant - Austin, TX December 2017 to September 2018 • Worked on several projects simultaneously.   • Delivered technical assessments, architecture diagrams, and software requirements, as well as implement those requirements.   • Interacted with clients to ensure deadlines were met.   • Implemented AI technologies alongside data scientists to ensure working deliverables on time and within budget.  Technologies Used?: Python, Rancher, ArangoDB asyncio, aiohttp, Flask, REST API, AWS, docker, etc. As well as RASA NLU, Spacy, tensorflow and other AI technologies. Director of Engineering Insitome - Austin, TX July 2016 to March 2018 Developed, architected and scaled the platform to handle any number of clients. Concentrating mostly on the technical aspects, I have developed the backend, devops and deployment processes within the company. We employ a microservices-based architecture to power our applications and have utilized an Agile SDLC since day one.  • Developed REST APIs for consumption by front end applications (web and iOS)  • Deployment of microservices via AWS Beanstalk and Lambda  • Monitored and scaled using DataDog, Sentry, CircleCI, Convox, and Papertrail  • Lead team using scrum tools including Jira, and Confluence.  Technologies Used : Python, Flask, REST API, AWS (Beanstalk, Lambda, Route 53, CloudFront, DynamoDB, S3), Git, Docker, Zappa, Fabric, and Convox. Director of Backend Engineering Snap Kitchen - Austin, TX November 2015 to July 2016 Lead a small team of platform developers. Collaborated with development teams and management to design and implement an ecommerce backend API and supporting processes. Integrated with 3rd party software for customer purchasing, delivery and rewards.  • Reported directly to the Chief Technology Officer (CTO)  • Initial developer on REST API for both web and iOS until we got more developers.  • Oversaw development pipelines (code reviews, continuous integration, and deployment).  • Work with Product Marketing on market needs, customer profiles, and product value propositions.  • Conducted research - gather key insights into scalability and stability to keep our platform running smooth and fast.  Technologies Used : Python, Flask, PostgreSQL, sqlalchemy, Celery, RabbitMQ, AWS, JWT, OAuth Software Architect RealMassive - Austin, TX July 2014 to November 2015 Software architect on a heavily scalable web application for commercial real-estate.  • Used Google App Engine to scale the web site to hundreds of connections per second.  • Architected and helped developed a REST API and optimized it for scalability.  • Used modern front-end web technologies (AngularJS, Protractor, webpack).  • Integrated new tools, including Landscape, CircleCI, DataDog, Harvest, and Sphinx  documentation.  • Lead, coached and mentored a team of 6 developers.  Technologies Used: webapp2, mapreduce, NDB, Full text search, Memcache, task queues and multi  tenancy. Principal Software Developer Myxer - Austin, TX April 2014 to June 2014 Responsibilities included developing and maintaining python API code and optimizing for scalability to millions of users.  • Developed and maintained systems using Amazon Web Services (AWS), Google Compute  Engine (GCE) and Google App Engine.  • Used Django and custom API framework to provide scalability to millions of users.  • MySQL (Google Cloud SQL) using ORM and sqlalchemy.  Note: Startup ran out of money and closed shop.  Technologies Used: Django, REST API, MySQL, sqlalchemy, Memcache. Lead Python/Django Engineer Mutual Mobile - Austin, TX January 2012 to March 2014 Performed as architect on multiple client projects from well known brands.  Lead the server team on a multi-million dollar project.  • Used Django to create client CRM server, and provide content to an iOS application in classrooms across the United States.  • Used Chef to develop and provision servers in a VPC using EC2.  • Used Chef to provide continuous deployment of the Django application using different environments, and VCS branches.  • Heavy use of Ubuntu, and Amazon Web Services, including Autoscaling and Elastic load balancing, and Server deployment using Chef and knife to EC2.  QA Automation Lead  • Architected, designed and implemented automation software using Appium and the selenium web driver that allowed all of QA to run automated regression testings.  • Over 30 pull requests donated back to the Appium code base in Java and Node.js.  • Python front end used an adapter pattern to hide most of the platform differences between iOS and Android.  • Installation installed all parts necessary to run automation on both platforms using Buildout.  • Increased ROI on projects by 25% in most cases.  Technologies Used: REST API, Couchdb, Chef, AWS, Django, Python, Celery, PostgreSQL, etc. Lead Python/Django Engineer Tippr - Austin, TX December 2011 to January 2012 • Worked with a team on developing a Django marketplace for advertisers and content sites to collaborate.  Note: Startup closed shop shortly after I started..  Technologies Used: Django, REST API, OAuth, PostgreSQL, sqlalchemy, Memcache. Software Engineer King Solutions - Dayton, MN June 2008 to December 2011 Design, implement and deploy enterprise java and python based systems to integrate our system with clients.  Technologies Used: ESXi VMware, Python, Cython, Celery, AWS, Ubuntu, etc. Lead Software Engineer King Solutions - Minneapolis, MN December 2010 to August 2011 Lead python development of a EDA verification suite  Technologies Used: Django, Buildbot, figleaf, AWS (S3, SQS, Autoscaling). Senior Software Engineer Xiotech Corp - Minneapolis, MN December 2005 to January 2008 Lead the automation team in defining and implementing a test automation strategy within the Test  Engineering department. Collaborated with development and test resources to design new frameworks and test tools.  Technologies Used: C++ (SWIG & boost. python), and Python (2.4 & 2.5), SOAP and Web Services Education BS in Computer Science in Computer Science Metropolitan State University September 1998 to May 2002 Skills API (7 years), AWS (8 years), Linux (8 years), Python (10+ years), REST (6 years) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/plaster/ https://github.com/xuru Additional Information OTHER SKILLS AND INTERESTS    Python, Git, Linux, REST API, Agile/Scrum, AWS, Open Source Development. I have focused and  enjoyed architecting, and implementing REST and GraphQL APIs.