Data Engineer Data Engineer Data Engineer - Redfin Bellevue, WA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Data Engineer Redfin - Seattle, WA September 2017 to Present Supply data for analysts and automate marketing tasks.   • Develop airflow dags to read from internal databases and external 3rd-party APIs.  • Develop campaign automation tools to auto-update SEM adcopys and keywords.  • Develop API Gateway endpoints with Lambda and DynamoDB to supply data to frontend.  • On-call production support for Redshift, airflow, and various AWS components. Software Engineer Embedded Resource Group - Campbell, CA January 2016 to September 2017 Develop internal dashboards for EDA lab cloud machines using Kubernetes (Borgmon).  ? To monitor cloud machines using pods, labels/selectors, controllers and services.  ? Modify borg jobs, construct tables and charts in Python, Closure, Javascript, and CSS.  ? Using the engineering build stack to push to the production branch. Using tools like blaze,  BigTable, colossus, fileutil, dygraphs, Google Visualization API (gviz), etc. Frontend Developer ITCO Solutions Inc - Redwood City, CA July 2015 to December 2015 Develop an internal dashboard charting app called Unidash.  ? Develop internal charts/widgets in Hack, ReactJS, Javascript, CSS, and HighCharts.  ? Using the engineering build stack to contribute changes to the www repo. Using tools like arc, hg, t, flow, jest, crud, fbide, etc. Python Automation Engineer MindSource - Mountain View, CA April 2015 to July 2015 Performed global-scale Map tile validation using Groovy, Hadoop, and Python.  ? Wrote Python library files to auto-populate optimal zoom, polygon and tile info for the  POIs testcase files. This automation process reduces at least 50% of the manual effort.  ? Wrote a parser in Python to convert numerous types of tile testcase files to/from csv files,  thus enabling QAs to directly modify in csv/excel, saving overall QA time. Technical Consultant Google - Mountain View, CA February 2013 to March 2015 Developed internal App Engine applications, and managed business intelligence projects.  ? Sole engineer to build an App Engine application in Python / jQuery / CSS / Cloud SQL to gather improvements ideas on existing workflows from all vendor staffs around the world.  ? Build a variety of metrics charts with complex SQL queries from internal marketing and sales data to generate business intelligence.  ? Build tools to automate workflows using trix, pipewrench, dremel, plx, cns, etc. Web Developer Apple - Cupertino, CA June 2011 to February 2013 Developed an internal website and various automation tools for the iOS wireless division  using HighCharts, MySQL, PostgreSQL, PHP, Python, Javascript, and CSS.  ? Being the sole developer to design and maintain a progress reporting website for an organization of 300+ QA/Dev members. This visualization tool gives daily insight to the  upper managers to discover bottlenecks early on in project cycles. Component Design Engineer Intel Corporation - Santa Clara, CA June 2008 to May 2011 Responsible for development, deployment, and support of a database-driven, .NET  WinForm application.  ? Handling DBA tasks on SQL Server 2008 involving user account management,  backup/restore tasks, replication setup, and procedural/functional programming. System Admin Brian Chan - Bellevue, WA September 2005 to June 2008 bychan@gmail.com | (650) 733-6423 | PO Box 53022, Bellevue, WA 98015-3022  www.linkedin.com/in/chanbrian/  UC Davis, Genomics Facilities, Davis, CA  System Admin (September 2005 - June 2008, 2 yr 10 mo)  ? Being the sole programmer, database admin, and IT support for a group of ten people.  Owning all aspects of projects, including design, implementation, and database admin. Intern programmer Yahoo - Sunnyvale, CA June 2004 to August 2004 Created a visualization tool to monitor the status of the mail servers worldwide. Programmer UC Davis, Vegetable & Crop Dept - Davis, CA April 2001 to June 2004 Created a bioinformatics visualization tool and other GUI tool in Python. Education Bachelor of Arts in Computer Science University of California - Davis, CA June 2004 Bachelor of Arts in Mathematics University of California - Davis, CA June 2004 Skills PYTHON (8 years), CSS (6 years), DATABASE (5 years), SQL (5 years), jQuery (2 years), ETL, Data Warehouse Assessments Data Analysis — Expert February 2019 Measures a candidate's skill in interpreting and producing graphs, identifying trends, and drawing justifiable conclusions from data. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/m9xz9pzwazv2mvrw Problem Solving — Highly Proficient February 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to analyze relevant information when solving problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/hua-nwaacsb2nfy3 Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Skills  ? Web Development Appengine, Django, Python, PHP, React, jQuery, HTML, CSS  ? Mobile App Development: Objective-C, Swift, Java, Xcode, Appcelerator Titanium  ? Database: Cloud SQL, MySQL, PostgreSQL