Audio Engineer / IT Support / Development Audio Engineer / IT Support / Development Piscataway, NJ Work Experience Audio Engineer / IT Support / Development ScreamTank - Edison, NJ November 2013 to Present - Mixing, Sound Design, and Composition for commercials/promos/tv shows for network clients.  ? Clients including: USA, Animal Planet, History Channel and Cooking Channel  - Assist engineers and clients with technical issues locally and remotely.  - Designed, spec-ed, and built the internal network with a Mac Server, Cisco Routers, and NAS.  - Built and maintain company's main website and client approval site utilizing Django and Django CMS. Full Stack Developer TelTech Systems Co. - South Amboy, NJ September 2017 to April 2018 - Developed new and troubleshot existing features for a proprietary Django telephony API, including implementation of both backend and frontend changes.  - Designed and created Go micro services in a Kubernetes environment as part of a roadmap to replace the existing Django API.  - Added features to and supported a Zend/Angular Administration portal for internal systems management. Python Developer Multiforce Systems Corp. - Princeton, NJ August 2016 to September 2017 - Feature development on a data-driven software as a service product.  ? Features Included: Class based views implementing Datatables.js and Django Crispy Forms.  - PostgreSQL and FreeBSD administration. Audio Engineer / IT Support / Development Northen Lights Post/SuperExploder - New York, NY July 2009 to December 2013 - Efficiently create even, powerful sound designed mixes by interpreting the client’s creative vision to create commercials, promos and independent films.  - Responded to client & engineer desktop/workstation support requests.  - Created and utilized Python scripts to automate common repetitive tasks.  - Developed Applescript/ Python powered workstation scheduled back-up system with a database driven CakePHP website for monitoring.  - Created low profile instant messenger script with pyObjC and Growl API. IT / Technical Engineer - Assistant Audio Engineer SoundHound Inc. - New York, NY November 2007 to December 2009 - Maintained and repaired studio rack gear and computers.  - General staff tech/computer support on Mac and Windows desktops and workstations.  - Developed maintenance schedules for studio equipment.  - Studio design and builds including infrastructure upgrades and Small Systems fab.  - Engineered voice over and ISDN VO sessions (with and without client supervision).  - Assistant Engineer duties:  - FTP Postings, Master Machine Room responsibilities, client/talent interaction. Contract: Web Design / Administration Support eCentric Websites CakePHP / HTML5 Web Design.  - Linux Server Support. Education Graphic Arts/Visual Communication Katharine Gibbs School - Piscataway, NJ