Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - State Farm Winter Haven, FL • Around 8 years of experience as a Web/Application Developer and coding with analytical programming using Python, Django, Flask.  • Experience in Analysis, Design, Development and Testing of Web - based applications.  • Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python/PHP) Architecture.  • Extensive experience in developing web applications implementing Model View Control architecture using Flask, Pyramid, and Zope Python web application frameworks.  • Over 2+ years of experience in MongoDB (versions 2.x, 3.0.0 and 3.0.5) installation, configuration and administration as well as I am having extensive experience in designing MongoDB multi-shredded cluster and monitoring with MMS.  • Hands on working with Python latest versions 3.4.3 and 2.7.10, SVN, Git, JIRA, Bugzilla, Axosoft, Amazon EC2/S3.  • Experience in project deployment using Heroku/Jenkins and using web services like Amazon Web Services (AWS) EC2, AWS S3, Lambda, RDS (MySQL).  • Strong Experience in Amazon Web Services (AWS) to Build & Deploy highly available and scalable infrastructure by using various AWS resources Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2), Virtual Private Cloud (VPC), Elastic Load Balancers(ELB), Auto Scaling, Identity and Access Management (IAM), EBS Volumes, Snapshots, Simple Storage Services (S3), Security Groups, Cloud watch, Route 53, RDS, Cloud Formation and Cloud Front.  • Customized Django admin interface to register models, add custom functionality such as verifying merchants on Sample Yum and search based on criteria.  • Having good experience in Hadoop Big Data processing. Expertise in developing the queries in Hive, Pig.  • Experience with Version Control, ideally SVN, CVS and GIT.  • Used Python, Perl, CGI, JQuery, JavaScript, CGI and JSON at the front end and performed efficient delivery of code based on principles of Test Driven Development (TDD) and continuous integration to keep in line with Agile Software Methodology principles.  • Proficient Experience in Back End databases MS SQL, MySQL, Oracle, no-SQL, MongoDB, Cassandra, and SQL to write Stored Procedures, Functions, Triggers and Views.  • Implemented responsive web pages using HTML5/CSS3, Bootstrap and XML/JSON JavaScript, JQuery, Angular JS, AJAX, based SOAP and REST web services.  • Development of Applications/Tools for validation of next generation IA32 Enterprise Processors.  • Worked extensively in J2EE JSP, Servlets, JDBC, Struts, spring, MVC, Hibernate, Java- Networking, RMI, Web Sphere, and XML and well versed with Oracle database, OS Concepts.  • Experienced of software development in Python libraries used: libraries- Beautiful Soup, Backbone.js, numPY, SciPy, matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas data frame, network, urllib2, MySQL dB for database connectivity) and IDEs - sublime text, Spyder, Pycharm, emacs.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Written SOAP and Restful web services, in house ESB for a web Claims applications (Spring MVC, AngularJS, ActiveMQ, SOAPUI, Mockito, JSON, Buildforge).  • Proficiency in multiple databases like MongoDB, Cassandra, MySQL, ORACLE and MS SQL Server.  • Experienced in frameworks like Flask, Django and Python packages like PySide, PyQtGraph, NumPy, MatPlot Lib.  • Experience in python packages such as NumPy, matPlotlib, Pandas, SciPy, Pickling, JSON.  • Developed applications and Restful web services and API's using PHP, Python/Django and Zope.  • Strong understanding of server side Templating Languages such as Jinja 2, Mako, etc  • Involved and worked on different Rest API's development by using Flask along with it I have worked on different types of Python modules such as requests, boto, flake8, flask, mock and nose.  • Development Experience in Linux (CentOS, Debian, Ubuntu), Mac OS with excellent debugging, problem solving, optimization and testing skills and knowledge of performing code reviews and implemented best Pythonic programming practices.  • Expert knowledge in Object Oriented Design and Programming concepts.  • Proficient in Front end development experience using Python 2.7, Django 1.7/1.8, HTML, XML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, JQuery, JSON and, Angular.js, Node.js.  • Experienced in working Asynchronous Frameworks like NodeJS, Twisted and designing the automation framework using Python and Shell scripting.  • Experience developing predictive analytic using Apache Spark  • Construction of low- and hi-fi models, from sketches to pixel-perfect mockups to complex interactive HTML prototypes, for illustrative examples of solution specifications.  • Developed prototype using Python (Django web framework), HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Creation of page templates, CSS style sheets,jinja, HTML & platform-specific presentation layer code, content and style guides as a hands-on team member throughout development and implementation.  • Experienced in Setup hosting on Amazon web services EC2 instance and used Amazon SES for email delivery.  • Having good domain expertise in developing applications/tools using Perl and programming in C, C and Java.  • Having experience in developing GUIs using Tcl and Java.  • Good Experience in error and exceptional handling with good Experience in debugging the issues using debuggers like gdb, pdb.  • Extensive knowledge in J2EE architecture (JDBC, JSP, JNDI, Data Source, JMS, Servlets)  • Experience in designing the automation framework using Perl and Shell scripting.  • Implemented eNodeB LTE agent Simulator using NetConf stack and SNMP4J  • Worked on Python OpenStack APIs and used Numpy for Numerical analysis.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Experience in writing/editing web content, technical and user documentation, business process analysis, process flowcharting and documentation.  • Manage VMware Infrastructure/vSphere clusters on Production, Corporate and Test/Development environments.  • Excellent in project documentation, logical and analytical abilities. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Python Developer State Farm - Winter Haven, FL April 2017 to Present Education Bachelor's