Developer <span class="hl">Developer</span> Developer - TW Inc Boston, MA yamileth.59dunlap@yohoomails.us Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Developer TW Inc - Boston, MA January 2008 to Present Development consultation as well as server specification validation and testing using various technologies which includes Node.JS, PHP, and Server Stress Testing in conjunction with the Paypal API and Authorize.net api.  ? Created wordpress plugins and maintained wordpress database. (contract) - Wordpress Developer TW Inc December 2017 to December 2017 Worked closely with Project Manager to facilitate better usage of Gravity Forms Plugin and customized company plugins.  ? Optimized dated code with updated html5, javascript, PHP, and Mysql storage techniques. PHP Developer TW Inc December 2016 to January 2017 Updated and maintained aged coding structures and development practices.  ? Created optimized front-end code using html5 with MVC and Singleton design pattern. Divine Marketing / Superior Global Marketing - Web Producer TW Inc March 2014 to September 2016 Developed low-level automation for several lead generation websites using PHP and Node.js.  ? Created several plugins and back-end systems with the Wordpress CMS  ? Designed several front-end designs using HTML5, jQuery and google geo targeting.  ? Worked closely with owners and developers to create top performing development structures. TW Inc November 2013 to December 2013 - Web Producer - WordPress  ? Assisted in various online duties which included designs and development.  ? Worked closely with SEO specialists to create updated HTML5 SEO driven websites.  ? Leveraged for better usage of plugins as well as developed updated custom plugins using tested technologies which included SQL structures, MVC frameworks using PHP, singleton and dynamic class creations.  ? Created several development layouts using wordpress. Front-end Developer (contract) Local Site Submit October 2013 to October 2013 Worked closely with several developers in updating designs for responsive layouts using CSS3, jQuery, and HTML5.  ? Customized and modernized dated PHP code and worked closely with the CTO to better developed technology specs.  ? Worked in a Scrum and Agile development cycle environment used to rapidly develop under strict timelines.  ? Worked closely with other developers to get wordpress plugins and CMS systems created Python Developer/Java Applet Developer Kranbery Systems February 2013 to February 2013 Worked closely with CTO and CEO to work with hardware to software challenges which included one touch scanner imaging using JavaApplets and the Java Spring library with an HTML front-end.  ? Worked on various HTML structures catered towards back-end technologies. Page1Posting - C# Developer Micarloader January 2010 to January 2013 contract) / Web Producer  ? Maintained several servers and optimized server health on servers reaching 2 million unique visitors per day.  ? Created several applications using MSSQL, C#, and Visual Studios, nginx, and lighttpd accessed through ssh.  ? Developed online data resources for more than 20 online sources and api's. Micarloader April 2012 to June 2012 Web Producer (contract)  ? Assisted with development ideas, data backups and basic infrastructure details for several product lines using the Paypal API.  ? Created and quality controlled lead generation pages with upwards of 20% conversion ratio. Lead Web Consultant Micarloader January 2012 to February 2012 Helped with finalizing server migration and developed the back-end PHP and front-end for several top-tier domains.  ? Worked closely with the CTO and various departments to create best practices for new designs and developing front-end ideas (under HTML5's 2012 development timeline) using the Mustache Templating System. Lead Web Developer (contract) Micarloader November 2011 to January 2012 Worked closely with clients to create websites using custom PHP code and the wordpress cms.  ? Worked with custom api calls using a Java back-end and Scrum and Agile development cycles. Lead Web Developer / System Admin Micarloader September 2011 to November 2011 Developed with a rapid turn-around with multiple projects on hand while allowing for smooth integration with a wide range of PHP frameworks.  ? Created websites using custom frameworks, yii and symfony under the doctrine platform as well as postgresql and ORM.  ? Used various server technologies in conjunction with off site web management systems such as AWS, and other cloud services. Front-end Developer Micarloader November 2010 to February 2011 Assisted with various front-end development issues in a perl and python intensive environment using jQuery, perl template toolkit, postgresql, and HTML.  ? Worked closely with the creator of Lucene search engine. Designer / IT Manager Micarloader January 2010 to June 2010 contract)  ? Worked closely with developers on WSDL server calls while parsing XML/json objects using PHP and server side scripting.  ? Managed IT and Server operations.  ? Maintained and administrated server health and uptime.  ? Assisted in server moves, intranet security, and several server installs. Web Consultant TW Inc November 2008 to November 2009 Maintained several front-end and back-end development projects working closely with other developers using PHP and flash development.  ? Worked closely with System Admin to facilitate and coordinate several development projects with time sensitive deadlines which included technologies such as Linux, Microsoft Server, and custom front-end HTML with Javascript.  ? Updated and created continuity offers that converted upwards of 18% per advertisement click-through. Junior Developer The Buddy Group July 2007 to March 2008 Created several record breaking websites which included NBC Marketing website allowing for dynamic schedule posting.  ? Telly Award winning WhyHighlander.com website.  ? The development environment used included flash reusable frameworks, custom as3/as2 development, dynamic XML driven by a cakePHP backend using doctrine and MySQL. www.mypresstv.com 2008 to 2008 Description: Created the database structure, general HTML/CSS layout, and functionality for the website. Web Developer Intercommunications Inc May 2007 to July 2007 Assisted with front end development for .Net and ASP projects for several time sensitive development projects.  ? Maintained and troubleshot several design and backend issues with ajax driven content using a .Net environment. Technology and Publications Specialist Girl Scouts of San Gorgonio Council October 2005 to June 2007 Maintained and organized the council's Windows 2000/2003 exchange and file server and provided consultation for Server Security and upgrades.  ? Created and optimized various databases used throughout the council using either Microsoft Access in conjunction with ASP or MySQL with PHP.  ? Upgraded, maintained, and troubleshot council computer, and hardware problems from various departments (product sales, shop, print shop, etc.).  ? Designed print ready illustrations and layouts for special events and basic office use using monotone, 2-color, or 4 color CMYK process.    Website Working Examples  http://taureanwooley.com - Most Recent Work    http://chds.net - 2016  Description: Troubleshot various front-end speed and placement issues and other browser issues resulting from changes within the code-igniter system.    https://www.hsdl.org - 2016  Description: Worked on updating various browser issues resulting from outdated code and basic cleanup of several server directories.    http://localsplash.com - 2013  Description: Worked closely with other developers to create custom plugins for company specific details needed for high SEO ranking as well as design ideas needed to boost return visitors and visibility of websites.    http://coachella.com - 2012  Description: Helped develop the front-end, backend and server architecture. Created a custom widget element that worked in conjunction with facebook's api which includes friends data and analytics based on shared likes.    http://suburbannoizerecords.com - 2010  Description: Helped create a more robust experience for the suburban noize records community. This includes a community section, unsigned artists section, their entire tour lineup and CD catalog and onsite advertising.    http://eventful.com - 2010  Description: Helped in frontend development and tech ticket issues in a perl intensive environment. Created custom flash widgets based off of talks with the designers ideas for a better user experience.    http://gatelockdown.com/communities - 2011  Description: Developed both the design and programming of this extensive online gated community software. It allows for logging of visitor entrance into a community and logging of expired passes, etc.    http://nbcmarketplace.tbgpal.com - 2008  Description: Added extra dynamic functionality to the nbcunidigital.com website to encompass all advertisement opportunities available from NBC Universal. Created screen animations and any additional functionality that was no present in the nbcunidigital.com website.    http://www.toyota.com/whyhighlander - 2008  Description: Helped with the animations and programming of the website and general functionality of forms, videos, and user interactions for the website. www.marinaheightsliving.com 2007 to 2007 Description: Developed HTML from the basic design layout and converted the design into a functioning website. PHP scripting was written to enable form information to be sent out via email.    2008 http://www.greenovationsathome.com  http://www.happymeal.com  http://hansens.com  http://wickedthemusical.com    2007 http://thedistricttl.com  http://marinaheightsliving.com  http://museumtowerdallas.com  http://peninsulapapagayo.com/    2005 http://fatweightentertainment.com  http://monkeyboz.freeserverhost.net/carpediem  http://monkeyboz.freeserverhost.net/Mayor%20Moore  http://monkeyboz.freeserverhost.net/ Education Data Structure Design UC 2004 to 2006 Algorithm Design UC 2004 to 2006 Embedded Systems Riverside Community College 2002 to 2003 Business Algorithm Design UC 2002 to 2003 Links http://taureanwooley.com