Python developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">developer</span> is pretty alright Austin, TX Python developer, very good at things. Work Experience Python developer Indeed - Austin, TX May 2016 to Present Python- and Django/Flask-based development and automation. Developed system that keeps employee permissions in sync with job profile data provided by Workday.     Currently working on cool and fun projects on the Incubator team. Quick prototyping and microservices are involved. IT Systems Administrator indeed.com - Austin, TX January 2015 to May 2016 Responsibilities  Developed Python webapps using Django and Pyramid to communicate with internal systems. Specifically, automated new employee account creation and account shutdown at termination. Provided support for Mac systems managed through Simian.     Accomplishments  Automated the new account and account termination workflows in a user-friendly and quick webapp. Added features to and maintained existing Django and Pyramid webapps. Provided support and maintenance on server accounts and Atlassian server apps. Trained IT support specialists in the ways of advanced IT topics.     Skills Used  Python, HTML & CSS, perl, LDAP, Google Apps, Django, Pyramid, Samba4 AD, Atlassian, dhcpd, Dyn DNS IT Support Specialist indeed.com - Austin, TX June 2011 to December 2014 Maintenance on: Windows, Linux, and Mac workstations, networks, wireless networking, VoIP telephony and administration, video conferencing solutions, Request Tracker backend scripting, remote office support, Subversion administration, disk imaging solutions, espresso machines, IMAP, Google Apps administration, internal documentation, DHCP, DNS, Cisco VPN, LDAP, Atlassian products, dashboard systems, and much more. Official Publications, Office of the Registrar University of Texas at Austin - Austin, TX December 2008 to June 2011 Assisting in editing material for official publications including the University of Texas undergraduate, graduate, and law school catalogs, and the online offices directory. Performing design, data conversion, and layout on catalogs and printed offices directory. Assists in maintaining course inventory through Web and mainframe systems. As a side duty, organizes and presents office-wide sessions on diversity issues. Automated tasks in editing and design using regular expressions and scripting. Copy editor San Angelo Standard-Times - San Angelo, TX February 2007 to November 2008 Editing copy for style, usage and grammar, making decisions on wire service content. Ensuring a clear and consistent visual and verbal style throughout the newspaper. Assisting with the switch to the ATS system by helping others learn to use MediaDesk, InCopy and InDesign, and using expertise to address unforeseen issues that arise from the new system. Finding content and designing pages. Assisting the city editor by line editing and coordinating reporters and live stories on weekends, identifying breaking news, and editing and publishing breaking stories to the Web as soon as possible. Copy desk chief The Shorthorn - Arlington, TX May 2005 to December 2006 Final read on all copy, responsible for accuracy of editing, headlines and summary lines and a high-quality final product. Responsible for pulling wire stories and editing them for space and content. Hiring, training, coordinating and supervising a staff of six to eight student copy editors. Responsible for checking accuracy of facts, ensuring proper grammar and spelling, maintaining Associated Press and Shorthorn style, writing headlines, and checking proof sheets for style errors and design issues. Editor, photographer, page/ad designer Mid-Cities News Source - Hurst, TX June 2006 to August 2006 Editor, photographer, page/ad designer — June to August 2006  Reading and editing all incoming articles, columns, press releases and wire copy. Helping develop a style for a new community newspaper. Photography and photo adjustment. Paginating copy and designing ads. Education Bachelor of Science in psychology University of Texas at Arlington - Arlington, TX Skills Troubleshooting hardware and software, problem-solving, finding and using knowledge, networking; using Windows 2000 through 8, OS X, Ubuntu, Android, iOS, Chromium; coding in C++, java, python, perl, HTML, CSS; other skills include writing, editing, graphic design, music composition, and drawing. Additional Information Android nerd, typeface enthusiast.