Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Insight Global, Inc Webster, TX Extensive experience in Information Technology as a Programmer, Analyst, Project Leader/Manager, Architect and Software Engineer. Specialized application areas include Networking, Telecommunications, Network Access Technologies and Engineering support. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Insight Global, Inc - Houston, TX January 2017 to Present Programmer, Analyst, Designer and Tester on EnSight development project.  Technical analyst and technical lead for an energy analytics platform to model wind turbine and wind farm efficiency implemented on the web using Python, Django, Pandas, MySQL, GIT using the agile process. Quickly learned complex business rules and worked with wind energy engineers to understand and implement complex energy analytics algorithms for wind turbines and wind farms. Software Applications Engineer MTA, Inc. - NASA - Houston, TX March 2016 to November 2016 Programmer, Analyst, Designer and Tester on NASA NAMIS project.  Developer, analyst and tester for a web based inventory application implemented with technologies that include ASP.NET MVC, C#, AngularJS, NuGet and SQL Server. Learned complex business rules, wrote design documents, implemented code, reviewed test scripts and tested code. Wrote and modified reports using SQL Server Reporting Services. Programmer Analyst Texas Tech University - Lubbock, TX September 2015 to December 2015 Programmer and Analyst and Project Manager on several projects.  Led project and analyzed the requirements to define a new Dashboard for the Graduate School Dean based on the Provost's Dashboard that is currently in development using COGNOS.  Led project and analyzed requirements to develop new Channels and Tabs for the Graduate School Raiderlink Portal. Director of Programming AmpliSine Labs, LLC - Lubbock, TX January 2015 to July 2015 Manager and technical lead reporting to the CEO of the company.  Managed 5 programmers. Developed programming standards and procedures for the company. Responsible for project management including making estimates and scheduling programming projects. Responsible for tracking the resources spent on contract employees. Responsible for ensuring implemented projects matched the requirements. Worked as lead programmer and designer on a complex C#, SQL Server, WPF application. Analyzed and developed a Python app to update an SQL database with Oil Well data from the Texas RRC adding needed functionality to the company's core product and saved the company $7000 in monthly payments for the data. Self Employed Self Employed - Houston, TX 2004 to January 2015 Consultant  Worked as a General Consultant in Software programming, Web Programming and General Technology  Highlights included:  Saving a failing web site. This involved maintenance and new development in C#, VB.NET, .NET, IIS, TSQL, SQL Server and SSIS.  Developing a complex new web and database application that allowed a client to do the same function with less employees saving them approximately $70,000 per year while improving the accuracy and yield of the stored data.  Developed the business case, architecture and prototype for an original product idea in digital media. The product created in a software application a multi-channel synchronized speaker system for high quality digital audio wireless playback of MP3 files in stereo. This was a self-funded research project implemented in Java, Jython and Python over a wireless LAN.  Successfully completed coursework towards a Master's Degree in Software Engineering/Information Technology in the Harvard University Extension program. These courses specialized in advanced study of networking and distributed client/server programming in Java. Global Chief Architect - Tools Schlumberger - Houston, TX 1997 to 2004 Analyzed Business requirements for software tools for the Global Help Desk.  Reviewed the existing multinational, multi-application Service Delivery infrastructure. Collected requirements from customers and produced a Worldwide Service Delivery Infrastructure Requirements document and presented it to Senior Service Delivery, R&D, and Customer management. Defined and analyzed new software product requirements. Led in defining and finalizing the design specifications. Defined product and project level features. Led the resolution of design issues. Championed new improved development methodologies. Worked with Quality Assurance and product support to solve customer related issues.    Chief Architect - Dexa.Net Houston, TX  In charge of technical design and implementation for an international data network.  Designed and implemented an international pilot to demonstrate the capabilities of a new network to senior management including a presentation to the CEO of Schlumberger.  Collected requirements from potential customers and designed solutions to implement the end product    Product Manager - Automated Test Equipment San Jose, CA  Responsibilities included the entire product life cycle.  Built the business case and defined the product architecture for a new generation Voice over IP test product. Collected requirements from potential customers and designed methods to implement the end product.  Wrote a white paper defining H.323 voice test criteria.  Made highest revenue one time technical sale in the history of the telecom group.  Collected new customer requirements and evaluated these requirements to determine whether they should be developed into existing or new products. Applications Engineer Catapult Communications - Chicago, IL 1995 to 1997 Technical consultant to sales in understanding how products can meet customer requirements. Gave technical product demonstrations to customers.  Taught customer courses in several digital network protocols for telecommunications.  Consultant for a major GSM Base Station manufacturer for a large cell phone test system.  Designed and programmed an International Standard test suite in C that major Telecom switch and Base Station manufacturers used to test software releases. Group Leader/Project Manager 3COM - Chicago, IL 1993 to 1995 Project Manager of a Digital Network Access product competitive analysis project. Evaluated a Digital Network access product and based on my technical recommendation, bought the company. Project Manager for a Remote Access Server competitive performance analysis. Staff Programmer IBM Information Network/Advantis - Tampa, FL 1988 to 1993 Programmer/Project Manager/Software Engineer  Lead programmer and Project Manager of several software implementation projects to add function and usability to enhance customer offerings and revenue. These included business systems where I programmed the databases using SQL.  Project Manager for the development of an updated international business system for network products. The 60-person month project was completed ahead of schedule and under budget. Supervised up to 15 people. Installed over 40 modules consisting of over 300,000 lines of code.  Architect for a messaging project that included international registration and accounting/billing and was the Project Manager responsible for the software and networking parts of the project. Education Master of Liberal Arts in Software Engineering Harvard University - Cambridge, MA 2013 to 2015 Bachelor of Arts in Mathematics University of Minnesota - Minneapolis, MN 1979 to 1983 Skills C# (10+ years), Java (10+ years), networking (10+ years), Python (10+ years), SQL (10+ years) Additional Information Areas of Expertise  • Project and Technical Management  • Understanding and Communicating Business Requirements  • Software Development in Java, C, C#, Python and SQL  • Networking and Telecommunications