Lead Engineer Lead Engineer Lead Engineer - HCL Technologies • Lead Software Engineer with 3 years and 8 months of experience in Software Development with Python.  • Experience in Django and Django REST web development framework.  • Good understanding of object oriented programming (OOP) concepts.  • Experience in Machine learning and Deep learning  • Experience with Numpy, Matplotlib, Pandas, scikit-learn, tensorflow, opencv, xlsxwriter, openpyxl, regex python libraries during development lifecycle  • Experience in Build Automation scripting  • Have sound knowledge of basics of Linux, Perforce and Git.  • Experience in creating and deploying Docker Containers Work Experience Lead Engineer HCL Technologies August 2018 to Present From August 2018)  Project  Title: AIoT Imaging Services  Description: The AIoT Imaging Services is Avionics IOT functional service that is responsible for executing the imaging analytic services powered by AI and ML/DL based  applications.  Platform: Python  Technologies: Django, Django REST, Docker, MySQL, Scikit-learn, Tensorflow, Opencv  Operating System: Linux(Ubuntu)  Role: Lead Engineer  Contribution:  • Involved in requirements gathering for project.  • Worked on Rest Api for Image Analytics.  • Designed and configured database and back end applications  • Worked on web socket for live notification  • Worked on building the application on docker image using docker file  • Worked on various python modules/libraries as per needs scikit-learn, tensorflow, opencv. Python developer Idemia, Syscom Corporation Ltd May 2015 to August 2018 • Have sound knowledge of basics of Linux, Python, Perforce and Git.  • Ported manual builds into the common build system to optimize build process across the teams.  • Worked on Django Framwork to design and implementation of the in house website.  • Have worked on implementation of enhancement and change requests for build and release system.  • Sound grasp on Python and shell scripting.  • Worked on Python modules for Perforce and Git integration.  • Written a tool to verify coding guidelines for C and Java.  • Written scripts in python for the build automation and the automation of manual tasks  • Ability to develop automated scripts and coordinate with the software development team.  • Worked on Graphical user interfaces (GUI) for some tools using Tkinter and wxPython.  • Creating fully automated CI build and deployment infrastructure and processes for multiple projects.  • Worked on analysis of build artifacts in Jenkins and generating excel sheet using pandas.  • Worked on customizing various python modules such as xlsxwriter, openpyxl, sphinx, regex, pandas, numpy as per requirements.  • Design and implementation of new change requests as per inputs from product team.  • Worked on enhancing current build system to work in multithreaded environment.    Six months industrial training in embedded system    • Trained on C, C++, Linux, Microcontroller    Technical purview  • Primary Language: Python, Shell scripting.  • Secondary Language: C, CSS, HTML  • Operating System: Windows, Linux  • Version control system: Perforce, GIT  • Editors: Notepad++, Eclipse, Pycharm, Pyscripter  • Electronics subject: Digital Electronics, Analog Electronics, Embedded System  • EDA Tools: Xilinx, Keil Education B.Tech Siliguri Institute Of Technology - Siliguri, WEST BENGAL, IN 2012 to August 2019 Certificate National Institute of Technology - Jamshedpur, JHARKHAND, IN 2014 B. Tech Chas College Chas - Ranchi, JHARKHAND, IN M. Tech in Design and Implementation of High Speed and Area Efficient College Toper