Python Product Engineer <span class="hl">Python</span> Product Engineer Python Product Engineer - Geoprocessing Team Redlands, CA Work Experience Python Product Engineer Geoprocessing Team - Redlands, CA 2013 to Present Build and ship quality software by working effectively with members of the Geoprocessing team and members from other software teams in an agile, highly interactive, and creative environment.  • Develop and test the Create Buffers, Extract Data, Dissolve Boundaries, Merge Layers, Overlay Layers, and Field Calculator tools for the Spatial Analysis Services on ArcGIS Online.  • Responsible for testing, documenting, and introducing new functionality for the Select Layer by Location,  Select Layer by Attribute, and Apply Symbology from Layer tools in the Layers and Table Views toolset in the Data Management toolbox as an ArcGIS geoprocessing tool owner.  • Design, build, and maintain a harness framework for testing Spatial Analysis Services on ArcGIS Online  using JSON input parameters and Python unittest framework to integrate with the existing geoprocessing  QA testing framework automated runs.  • Write unit tests using the Python unittest framework for testing script tools created in Python, testing newly  created methods for working with arcpy geometry, and testing geoprocessing tools that do not require the advanced configurations used in the geoprocessing QA testing framework.  • Create automated functional and sanity tests for geoprocessing tools in the geoprocessing QA testing  framework.  • Promote the use of Python across the ArcGIS platform and share and distribute workflows and projects in the form of sample scripts, snippets, and blog articles.  • Conduct technical interviews of prospective Product Engineers for the Geoprocessing team both on the phone and in person during on-site visits.  • Present specialized product information during technical workshops and demonstrations conducted at the  Esri User Conference and Esri Developer Summit as a subject matter expert in using Python for analysis and using Python in the ArcGIS geoprocessing framework.    • Interact with Core Developers on the Geoprocessing team in order to address and prioritize software bugs in a timely manner and verify that the fixes do not affect the stability or functionality of other portions of the software.  • Collaborate with members from other teams in order to build custom Python scripts, script tools, and  Python toolboxes based on specifications required to accomplish essential tasks.  • Demonstrate to Geoprocessing team members and members from other software teams how to build  custom tools and deploy the tools as Python modules using the Python Distribution Utilities (Disutils) in order for them to be available to users in the ArcGIS system toolboxes.  • Write help documentation for new arcpy geometry methods and new geoprocessing tools, while maintaining the existing documentation for arcpy geometry methods and geoprocessing tools under my  responsibility. Development Technical Lead-Desktop Extensions Esri UAG - Redlands, CA 2012 to 2013 Interacted closely with the Parcel Editor Team to influence the development of the Parcel Fabric  technology and the usability of the product.  • Facilitated the transfer of product information from Development to Support.  • Performed analysis of software bugs in order to identify common trends and worked closely with  Development to resolve issues.  • Provided technical assistance for incidents escalated by Tier II Support Analysts requiring high-level  troubleshooting.  • Maintained an advisory relationship with Product Engineers, Product Managers, and Development for all  ArcGIS Desktop Extensions Teams.  • Guided Product Managers and Development through the Product Supportability checklist for new products and extensions to prepare them for end-user support.  • Wrote Knowledge Base articles to document proper workflows and to respond to common behaviors  experienced when working with ArcGIS Desktop and ArcGIS Desktop Extensions.  • As a senior level lead, met with senior management in Support and Development to discuss information concerning the software through all phases of development and release cycles.  • Researched, gathered information, and attended training for future product releases and technologies.  • Worked with the Location Analytics Engineering Team to gather information concerning future  development of products geared toward Business Intelligence and the potential usability of the envisioned  products and also the usability of current products.  • Conducted technical interviews of prospective Support Analysts, both on the phone and in person during on-site visits.  • Attended conferences and GIS user group meetings to understand how Esri products are being used and provided relevant feedback to internal teams.  • Coordinated with customers, Technical Account Managers, and Development Teams in order to create  QFE (Quick Fix Engineering) in order to address mission critical software bugs.  • Reviewed ideas submitted by the user community on the ArcGIS Ideas Web site with Development to determine possible implementation at a future release. Desktop Support Analyst Esri Support Services - Redlands, CA 2011 to 2012 Provided Tier II support for Premium Support Services incidents, escalated customer incidents, and incidents transferred from other support units.  • Promoted to Tier II Analyst after working as a Tier I Support Analyst for four months.  • Senior Support Analyst with specialties in Python scripting, ArcPad application and custom scripting for  ArcPad using VBScript, and ArcGIS for Windows Mobile.  • Mentored and trained newly hired analysts and assisted and trained analysts in Desktop and other units with troubleshooting and resolving incidents.    • Responsible for conducting technical interviews of prospective Support Analysts, both on the phone and in person during on-site visits.  • Efficiently and effectively supported all aspects of the ArcGIS Desktop application, ArcGIS Desktop  Extensions, and, when applicable, ArcGIS Server and ArcSDE support incidents.  • Initiated special projects for the Desktop Support teams including presenting and demonstrating advanced  troubleshooting techniques and high-end use of ArcGIS Desktop and ArcPad.  • Interacted with Product Engineers, Technical Account Managers, and Development Technical Leads in order to support ArcGIS Desktop and discuss how customers are using the software to accomplish  particular GIS workflows and analysis.  • Participated in holistic testing of selected applications and provided extensive feedback to Development concerning the applications and workflows being tested.  • Tested and logged software bugs pertaining to ArcGIS Desktop and provide Development with detailed  steps for reproducing the behavior.  • Utilized highly developed problem solving skills, communication skills, and a comprehensive knowledge of ArcGIS applications in order to resolve difficult and challenging issues affecting customers and other  analysts. Senior GIS Database Administrator/Application Developer Earth & Environmental - Tempe, AZ 2010 to 2011 ArcGIS Server Silverlight API Project, Arizona Corporation Commission, Arizona  Worked with the Arizona Corporation Commission to upgrade an existing ArcGIS Server Web ADF  application to an ArcGIS Server Silverlight API Web application. In addition, completed a thorough needs  assessment that included recommendations for ArcSDE Server integration and a determination of critical  improvement areas for on-going GIS support at the Commission.  • FarmBase CRM Integration/ArcGIS Server Silverlight API Project, Scythe & Spade, Arizona  As an application developer for the Scythe & Spade project, built a custom ArcGIS Server Web application  using the Silverlight API. The scope of the CRM integration with the corresponding GIS components was  determined through the creation of a comprehensive project plan document using AMEC's AIMS2  methodology.    • GIS Parcel Accurizing Project, Mohave County, Arizona  Implemented custom application development and database management for the analytic adjustment of 40,000 property parcels in a pilot area of Mohave County. The scope of work included establishment of  Class A GPS survey control, field surveys of cadastral delineation points, readjustment and route-system  conversion of current street centerlines and property parcels, and an accuracy study of floodplain  boundaries. The final deliverable was to be in the form of an ArcGIS Desktop Parcel Fabric to be imported into the Mohave County ArcSDE Server.    • Monroe County Property Appraiser GIS Portal, Monroe County, Florida  GIS application developer for the Monroe County, Florida Web GIS viewer built using the Flex API for  ArcGIS Server. Developed custom widgets to be incorporated in the final Rich Internet Application  deliverable.    • Remedial Investigation, Confidential Client, Phoenix, Arizona  Created a specialized GIS database for management of a project related to an extensive VOC groundwater and soil vapor contamination problem in Southeast Phoenix. In addition, through the use of GIS software and spatial analysis, analyzed soil vapor data, which was used to determine the need for additional site  investigations.    • Remedial Investigation, Confidential Client, Mesa, Arizona  Provided specialized database implementation and management for a remedial investigation proposal for a  client in Mesa, Arizona. Built a GIS from a U.S. Air Force Environmental Resources Program Information  Management System (ERPIMS) database in Microsoft Access format provided by the client and ran  detailed analyses and queries on the data contained within the GIS using a custom application in order to determine the areas within the site that required additional focus and testing for potential groundwater  contamination. GIS Intern City of Chandler - Chandler, AZ 2009 to 2010 Created tables and spatial and nonspatial views in an Oracle integrated ArcSDE.  • Wrote detailed SQL statements and scripts to create essential spatial and nonspatial views from multiple  associated ArcSDE tables.  • Responsible for loading Maricopa County APN parcel data into appropriately designed and built tables  using SQL Loader scripts.  • Built custom SQL Loader control files used in conjunction with SQL Loader scripts to load data into corresponding tables.  • Automated the process for creating tables and spatial and nonspatial views and loading APN parcel data  using SQL Statements, SQL Loader control files, SQL Loader scripts, and a Python script.  • Extensively outlined and documented the automated process for loading APN parcel data into ArcSDE  tables and creating spatial and nonspatial views.  • Produced comprehensive and detailed documentation instructing users on how to publish maps using  ArcGIS Server Services.  • Assisted with the training of field crew technicians in the use of a GIS integrated asset management  application for data collection.  • Rebuilt all of the City of Chandler geocoders in preparation for a scheduled ArcSDE upgrade.  • Designed and built a composite geocoder stored in a File Geodatabase and created an address geocoding  service in ArcGIS Server pointing to the composite geocoder.  • Wrote a custom Python script to automatically update the geocoders each night and incorporate the changes  made to the associated ArcSDE layers throughout the day.  • Constructed a customized model using Model Builder to automate the task of creating multiple separate  feature classes from the attributes of a single input feature class.  • Simplified the process of running the create multiple feature classes from the attributes of a single feature  class model by writing a Python script to further automate the repetitive task. Project IT Specialist Illinois State Geological Survey 2004 to 2009 Center for Transportation and Environment  Illinois State Geological Survey  Institute of Natural Resources Sustainability  • Tested and configured a failover cluster redundant solution for ArcGIS Server and ArcSDE utilizing two  cluster-aware server nodes installed with Windows 2003 Server and Microsoft SQL Server 2005 and using a shared quorum disk.  • Created spatial and nonspatial views in the Environmental Site Assessment Section ArcSDE Server using  relevant tables and feature classes.  • Built and deployed custom C# .NET and Visual Basic applications for ArcMap to automate geoprocessing  tasks used by project managers to determine if known environmental hazards were within a certain distance of a given project area.  • Trained end users on the appropriate use of geoprocessing tools within the ArcGIS ArcToolbox and tools  included in the ArcGIS Spatial Analyst extension.  • Implemented File Geodatabase solutions for the Environmental Site Assessment Section and Wetlands  Section in order for project managers to store site specific data for more convenient access, improved  versatility and usability, easier data migration, and reduced storage.    • Orthorectified, cropped, and mosaicked scanned historical aerial photographs using Leica ERDAS  IMAGINE and Leica Photogrammetry Suite (LPS) software, corresponding digital elevation models  (DEMs), and camera information.  • Maintained and administered three Windows 2003 Servers, one acting as a file server, one configured as an  ArcSDE Server, and one as a developmental server; and two Windows 2000 Servers, one acting as a file  server, and the other configured as an ArcIMS and SQL Server housing an Extranet for the Illinois  Department of Transportation (IDOT).  • Provided end user support for an ArcPad application running on Trimble GeoXT handheld GPS units.  • Tested, configured, and implemented an ArcGIS Server solution to replace an outmoded ArcIMS Server.  • Researched and mapped current Leaking Underground Storage Tank (LUST) sites using Illinois  Environmental Protection Agency (IEPA) databases and records as resources to create vector datasets and load them into ArcSDE.  • Provided support for the ISGS/IDOT Extranet running on a Windows 2000 Server with ArcIMS, Microsoft  SQL Server 2000, and ArcSDE.  • Configured, implemented, and administered an ArcSDE solution for the Center for Transportation and  Environment to house spatial data for use on the ISGS/IDOT Extranet running ArcIMS.  • Loaded vector and raster datasets into ArcSDE ensuring that they were stored with correct coordinate  systems and projections and documented with appropriate metadata.  • Solely responsible for providing end user support for all desktop PCs and laptops.  • Appointed to the Institute of Natural Resources Sustainability Information Technology Committee (ITC) with the goal of obtaining a level of interoperability among divisions, providing a forum for discussion of  IT needs, and outlining future objectives.  • Responsible for Network Administration and System Administration at two local offices and three remote  field offices.  • Implemented, configured, and monitored SonicWall firewall appliances at two local offices and three  remote field offices in coordination with the University of Illinois IT Services and Network Design Office.  • Monitored the Center for Transportation and Environment routers and switches through the University of  Illinois IRIS System and documented and logged network patterns and intrusion attempts and detections.  • Installed and configured software and hardware ensuring that all of the Center for Transportation and  Environment desktops and laptops were updated and running current patches.  • Maintained, configured, and monitored backup systems for two local offices and three remote field offices.  • Designed, documented, implemented, and tested a Disaster Recovery Plan for the Center for Transportation and the Environment in order to protect against worst-case scenarios.  • Developed a current and long-term Strategic Vision Plan for technology objectives envisioned for the  Center for Transportation and the Environment.  • Responsible for troubleshooting software applications, including those associated with ESRI, Microsoft,  Corel, Adobe, McAfee, and Veritas software packages.  • Performed Domain Administration by adding and deleting user and computer accounts and configuring  Organizational Units (OUs) and containers within Microsoft Active Directory.  • Worked closely with hardware and software vendors in order to purchase essential and recommended  equipment using department issued credit card account.  • Kept detailed and thorough inventory of all IT equipment and coordinated with the University of Illinois and ISGS Purchasing and Finance Offices to maintain consistent and accurate records.  • Maintained detailed software licensing records and files.  • Received the Outstanding New Staff Member Award for completing over 700 IT tasks in one year.  • Closely coordinated with the University of Illinois IT Services, the Southern Illinois University Network  Engineering Office, and an ISP in order to ensure network connectivity for two local offices and three  remote field offices. Education Masters of Advanced in Geographic Information Systems Arizona State University - Tempe, AZ 2010 Certificate in Geographical Information Systems Pennsylvania State University - University Park, PA 2007