Ported Python interpreter to Cypress PSOC 42-BLE Ported <span class="hl">Python</span> interpreter to Cypress PSOC 42-BLE Ported Python interpreter to Cypress PSOC 42-BLE - Equalia Inc Sunnyvale, CA Work Experience Ported Python interpreter to Cypress PSOC 42-BLE Equalia Inc October 2017 to Present C++    Ported Python interpreter to PAC5523. C++    Developed software for dedicated printed circuit board tester for manufacturing floor. Via SW and HW interfaces, validate PC boards prior to assembly. LCD, Serial, ADC, etc. C, IAR STM32    Modified existing IPhone app. Enhanced communication protocol. Xcode, Swift.    Modified embedded application (C - Arm Cortex), and accompanying android app (Java), to support firmware upgrade over Bluetooth. Added BLE functionality to both embedded and Android app. Android app integrated with AWS S3 for FW image update. Took over support of embedded battery mgmt, and one wheeled device application.    Modified existing Android application to utilize packet data over Bluetooth. Wrote packet layer and enhanced application communications as well as wrote custom bootloader server. Java    Dedicated Manufacturing Test Device for One-Wheeled, personal transportation Device. Color Sensor, PWM Motor actuator, Magnetic brake, Cognex QR code reader, Load Cell via Serial port. IAR/C/FreeRTOS embedded controller communicating with Microsoft Visual C++ Windows front end.    Dedicated Manufacturing Test Device for Lithium Ion battery pack. IAR/C, Python - STM32F4  Cypress bootloader server over serial port for Lithium Ion battery. IAR/C - STM32F4 Independent Contractor November 2015 to Present Tekpea Inc September 2016 to October 2017 Automated Manufacturing tests for IOT devices. C#, VB, Python, C. NI-VISA. Control of O-Scope, RS485  SW/HW dev/support of powerline energy products. Debug, test HW/SW, protocol. Sony January 2017 to March 2017 Custom Robotic Arm for 3D imaging. Extensively modified Robot shop robotic arm. All mechanical, electrical, and software. Application was 3D imaging. Bluetooth control, RPI, Servos, Android control application. C++, Java. Fire March 2016 to July 2016 Fire alarm panel alarm to SMS, w/ Twilio/web server (PHP) back end db (MySQL). Arduino (C), Serial ports, LCD display, EFCom GSM Co-Founder/VP Engineering Endurant Systems August 2014 to November 2015 At this early stage startup, I was responsible for the development of HW/SW systems to enable long duration, heavy lift UAV-copters. I created a computer controlled, gas powered generator. It was started by a BLDC. After start, the BLDC was then used to generate 3000W power for the UAV. Hands-on designer/implementer of Mechanical/Electrical/SW systems (STM32F4 (ARM)/chibios, RPi/Raspian) C Embedded multithreaded control system for motor control, servo, temperature sense, RPM, power, voltage, etc. Used various interface protocols: CAN, I2C, SPI, Serial, RF, etc. Work with 3rd party vendors to design/produce custom components. Manager SW Development (SPVTG) Cisco Systems 1999 to 2014 I resigned voluntarily, in order to co-found a startup. I was rated exceptional at the time - Cisco's highest performance rating.    As 2nd line manager, responsible for development and support of video storage/distribution product. Managed local team of 40 engineers, as well as remote teams in Utah and India - total of >100 engineers. Interacted w/ major video customers on near-daily basis. Frequent customer visits.    Sentient Networks was acquired on 6/99 by Cisco Systems. Senior Engineer Sentient Networks 1998 to 1999 Project lead in three person team tasked to design and implement a command line interface (CLI) network management tool for an ATM switch. Integrated management of multiple vendors products into one management tool for seamless control. Hired and directed consultant's effort. Created and executed test plans and enforced software release process - In four months in the field, 5 bugs were found by our customer. Solaris, C, SNMP. Senior Engineer ADC SoftXchange 1997 to 1998 For this startup company within ADC Telecommunications, I defined and developed solutions for customers that utilized SoftXchange's product - a legacy application interconnection toolset. This toolset provided a Web based front end to non-web applications. C++, HTML.    The Apex Group was acquired on 4/97 by ADC Telecommunications. Project Leader THE APEX GROUP 1992 to 1997 Oversaw three engineer's efforts to port Windows interface code to OS2 - C. Designed and developed HP OpenView application for management of wireless network - C++. Designed and developed HP OpenView application for management of CSU/DSU - C++. Oversaw two engineer's design and development efforts to port Windows OpenMail client to Macintosh. Assisted in coding of Mac client. Designed and developed cross-platform client-server Phonebook for HP OpenMail. Led development of two man team to implement project under Windows 3.1, Mac, Solaris, SunOS, AIX, and HPUX - C. Responsible for improving development infrastructure including standardized backups, quality control software, and version control software. Participate in Pre and Post sales support for OpenMail and OpenView including demonstrations, training, and on-site support. Embedded developer/manager 1984 to 1992 for various communication products - assembly languages: 68000, 6502, 80186 Skills AIX (5 years), Arm (2 years), C+ (7 years), Python (2 years), Solaris (6 years), Basic Mandarin Chinese (2 years) Additional Information Operating Systems: Linux, Chibios, FreeRtos, Raspian, Android, IOS, Windows, HPUX, Solaris, AIX (and BareMetal on many processors)    Languages: C#, VB, C, C++, Java, Objective C, Perl, Python, 680X0, 80X86, 6502    Microcontrollers: Atmel, ARM, Microchip, Arduino, RPI  Web: Wordpress, Apache, Python, PERL, PHP, MySQL  Own a Logic analyzer and Oscilloscope    Cisco certified internal ISO 9001 auditor    U.S. CITIZEN