Python Developer, DevOps Engineer, Technical Project Manager <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span>, DevOps Engineer, Technical Project Manager Python Developer, DevOps Engineer, Technical Project Manager San Jose, CA Work Experience Python Developer, DevOps Engineer, Technical Project Manager 2011 to Present Completed Trainings/Certifications/Technology Upgrade (2011-Present)  Strong technology background with practical ideas on implementing cloud computing infrastructure and operations automation. Hands on experience in installing/configuring and implementing multi-node OpenStack Grizzly on Ubuntu. Thought process on designing efficient cloud monitoring (Nagios/Splunk)  LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, Python). Django, Puppet, Salt, Chef, Git, REST. VMWare vSphere5 Configure/Install/Manage, P2V Server Consolidation, Amazon Cloud (EC2) and Python/Boto.  Current hands-on experience with Python & Scriptiing. NetApp Storage and Virtualization Environments.  PMP Certification, ITIL V3 Foundation Certification, ISACA CoBIT Training, Certified Scrum Master (CSM). Active on OpenStack community. Consulting Program Manager Microsoft Corporation - Palo Alto, CA 2009 to 2010 Microsoft Corporation (NASDAQ: MSFT) is the world leader in desktop and server software.  Extensively used ETL and scripting/ Python to analyze cloud operations data and presented analysis to exec mgmt and customers. Established ITIL based program management practice for Premium Mobile Experience (PMX) division (2 product lines). Actively involved in technical solution engineering, release planning and program/product delivery with Engineering, Cloud Operations and QA. Used Agile methodology for product/project delivery.  SEAGATE TECHNOLOGY, Scotts Valley, CA (14 Years) Director, Infrastructure Development and Delivery Seagate Technology 2007 to 2009 NASDAQ: STX) is the worldwide leader in the design, manufacturing and marketing of hard disk drives. Responsible for end-to-end delivery of EAI, B2B and Drive Trust Plaforms.  Director, Infrastructure Development and Delivery (2007 - 2009)  Managed development team of 25-30, located in USA, Singapore and India. on 5 different OS and 4 DB versions. Successfully manage multi-million $ programs. Managed program portfolio and represented organization at PMO level. Implemented Vmware virtualization to reduce costs and increase flexibility.  • Technically lead team on delivery of business critical projects using Java, WebLogic, Apache, Oracle DB, Linux, Solaris, Messaging Middleware, Storage Encryption.  • Actively involved in technical design, coding and testing aspects of the solutions and validated data using standard methodologies such as Six Sigma.  • Implemented a configuration tracking system online of CMDB to keep track of all software configurations and dependencies across 200+ servers globally.  • Architected and delivered disaster recovery (DR) capability for EAI and B2B infrastructures enterprise-wide, providing business continuity for 85% mission critical components.  • Managed $3M-department expense budget including 3 cost centers within 5% budget variance.  • Successfully led team of 30+ developers and system administrators to upgrade EAI infrastructure (messaging middle-ware), consisting of more than 200 servers world-wide for increasing platform support and improving performance. Maintained high level of communication through delivery.  • Chaired EAI Core Team, (aka Integration Competency Center), to review/approve key integration initiatives consisting of around 10 cross-functional members and define 3 year strategic roadmap. Sr. Manager, Infrastructure Development Represented Seagate on Customer Advisory Board (CAB) at SPSS Inc 2000 to 2007 Built 24x7x365 offshore operations including organization, core processes and operational procedures. Developed, designed and delivered IT solutions in portal, content management and integration area to support growth of business. Continuously monitored cost structures for improvements.  • Delivered integration projects involving enterprise applications (e.g. ERP, Order Mgmt, HR) to extend existing infrastructure and add new services (when required).  • Started using Test Director/Quality Center for all QA activities, and reviewed defects in weekly project review meetings. Established weekly Change Advisory Board (CAB) meeting for reviewing all changes. Represented Seagate on Customer Advisory Board (CAB) at SPSS Inc.  • Identified operations metrics (performance, availability, transaction volume, utilization) and presented to executive management on quarterly basis. Managed Service Desk based on ITIL.  • Enterprise Content Management (ECM) evaluation report was recognized by CFO as one of the best evaluation reports. Staff Engineer Advance Development Group 1995 to 2000 Designed, developed, and implemented enterprise applications in Factory Reporting (client-server), HR (nTier intranet), Incident Tracking and Manufacturing Systems on Solaris/Oracle/WebLogic.  • Significantly contributed in design and development of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) methodology. Trained and mentored Seagate Far East IT Teams on web technologies. Education MBA University of Pune - Pune, Maharashtra Additional Information AREAS OF EXPERTISE  • Cloud/Virtualization/Enterprise Storage • Software Development ( Python/Java/C++)  • Process engineering (ITIL/Six Sigma/COBIT) • SDLC Methodologies & SW Frameworks  • Configuration Management and Monitoring • Vendor negotiations/PMO/OCIO  • Strategic planning and Execution • Customer Support (Internal/External)