Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Bank of America Rahway, NJ Work Experience Python Developer Bank of America - New York, NY August 2018 to Present • Member of multinational Quartz-Helium/Ozone team.  • Using a highly efficient and highly integrated development environment  • Following an agile development methodology with frequent production releases.  • Responsible for automatic testbed generation for the Quartz/Ozone application using python.  • Using Object oriented database for data validation, verification, extraction and confirmation  • Extensively use grid computing daily.  • Collaborate with internationally aligned staff  • Gain a deep understanding of the non-financial layers of the Quartz Stack (distributed compute, object database, development tools) to rapidly build high-performance and robust solutions  • Measure, improve and maintain data quality  • Research and analyze the root cause of issues and solve them in a permanent manner. Sr. Consultant Name Restricted By NDA - Monmouth Junction, NJ January 2017 to Present • Involved in responding to RFP from local clients.  • Involved in analysis of the existing environment and documenting it. Proposing new architecture including hardware and software.  • Initiating a proof of concept using REST API along with new hardware and software. Process involved setting ip a single board computer and testing out the various python set up, both 2.7/3.4.  • Leading the team in the projects as well as standup in agile meeting every morning.  • Involved in requirement gathering, project plan as per the requirements, defining various systems necessary, coding in python2.7 with MySQL, helping the test team to come up with test cases including the integration testing and UAT.  • Designed REST web services using python 2.7 with MySQL storage engines to perform various tasks. REST web services leveraged by both web and mobile applications. Documented APIs, including JSON data formats.  • Presently investigating the use of AWS(Amazon Web Services) for the project. Open Source systems corp January 2016 to July 2018 Sr. Consultant/ Python developer Open Source systems corp - Jersey City, NJ June 2016 to December 2016 • Worked with Java/Spring platform in their Global Technology infrastructure Team capable of provisioning Virtual Machines (VMs), communicate with other internal systems such as Single Sign ON (SSO), authentication, approval center, and oracle RDBMS, UNIX scripts to start/stop vms etc.  • Responsible for fixing bugs/adding new features to the application including upgrading the current system.  • Generated python based tools utilizing Anaconda, python2.7, urllib, Request, CSV/Xlrd, Pandas, Numpy, threading etc to get information from other internal systems such as TAMS, PLM, PRIME, Verum etc and process the data accordingly. Save the data in a local, SQLite and oracle, database.  • Involved in Global delivery environment with both on shore and off shore teams.  • Technology Python, JavaEE/Spring, GWT, RapidMQ, SOAP, REST, Oracle RDBMS, Linux servers in the back and windows desktop. Senior Consultant Sun Chemical, Daniel J. Carlick Technical Center - Carlstadt, NJ November 2015 to May 2016 • Worked on ImageJ open source image processing program developed by National Institute of Health using Java/J2EE, spring, Rest Api, Hibernate.  • Provided bug fixes to the existing ImageJ app.  • Utilizing Java Swing/Core Java/Multithreaded features generated color conversion from CIELab to RGB using Little CMS open source color management system.  • Presently involved with Feasibility study using UR3 Robot in the current production environment.  • Using TCP/IP and Python socket programming created and executed from a host windows pc, able to communicate to the UR3 Robot. This was accomplished by using specific Robotic commands that help to manipulate the six axes (joints) that are available. In addition, the UR3 Robot was equipped with two finger RoboticIQ gripper and commands were also send to this gripper for closing/opening or applying some pressure as necessary.  • Also have used Robot Operating System (ROS) for low level device control, implementation of commonly used functionality, message passing between processes etc. Open Source Solutions, LLC January 2011 to December 2015 Senior Consultant Open Source Solutions, LLC - Somerset, NJ July 2014 to August 2015 • Lead multiple projects with a team size of 6-8 from various support groups.  • Utilizing REST API from NetScaler (Load Balancer) which responds in JSON integrated the current Service-Now(TM) environment via SOAP/WSDL calls. Involves, in addition to designing, coding, testing, deployment using Core Java Multithreaded/ Python language, leading a team consists of third party solution architect, internal service now admin, support, networking group, security group, Linux/Unix group and DBA's.  • Leading a team in the process of retiring a legacy system and moving information to the Service-Now(TM) cloud environment - effort involved are detailed data analyses of the legacy system, defining the transformation of the data to the service now, defining/documenting the requirements etc.  • Utilizing Core Java multithreaded features responsible for building and maintaining custom applications and integrations using SOAP/WSDL calls to interface with company's service management system based on Service-Now(TM), use of mid server and other out-of-the-box and/or custom functionalities in Linux environment.  • Python2.7 is used to program, gather status information, and bring system up /down etc. in a separate Linux system.  • Develop software applications through all stages of the development life cycle, including coding, configuration, and application administration while assuring data security and functional effectiveness.  • Develop standards, complete code reviews, testing and write unit tests.  • Working with users to technical guidance, monitors results, resolve issues, define and analyze requirements for application development, workflow creation, and create enterprise applications/workflows, which are user-friendly and functional.  • Utilized Apache Subversion for software versioning and revision control.  • Modifying and maintaining existing enterprise-level applications and integrations to support business operations utilizing SOAP/WSDL calls available in the current Service-Now(TM) to other systems utilizing JDBC calls to MySQL database, SOAP calls to Salesforce, Custom billing systems, transfer of PDF documents to Service-Now(TM) service in Linux environment.  • Monitors application functionality and utilization; researches/resolves security/or and access problems and recommends solutions; detects and define fixes to the errors.  • Involved in designing a writing scalable multi-threaded applications in Core Java7, JSP, Servlets, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, Perl, Python (v2.7), JSON, REST, SOAP, XmlRPC along with RDBMS such as Oracle/MySql/SqlServer in Linux/Windows and Service-Now(TM) environments. Freelancer/ Consultant Open Source Solutions, LLC - Princeton, NJ January 2012 to June 2014 • Identified and documented the existing business process  • Define requirements that are consistent with strategic business and technical objectives  • Conduct Brainstorming Sessions and other project meeting facilitation  • Facilitate technical, functional and business requirements  • Defining resources and schedule for project/program implementation  • Mapping workflows  • Designed/Developed a prototype (proof-of-concept) using python/Mongo dB, document oriented database, with custom designed/developed proprietary ETL (Extract, Transform and Load) tool which extracts the data from a flat text file containing million lines of data and persist to a Mongo dB and generate custom reports as needed.  • Utilizing Python, Mongo dB, Django, Java/J2EE, Spring3.0, JSF, Perl, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, MySQL/Postgres/mongo dB and Flask/Bottle/Apache Tomcat server in Linux Environment. Consultant-Team Lead Open Source Solutions, LLC - Philadelphia, PA January 2011 to June 2011 • Managed a team of 22 persons with various responsibilities.  • Developed Specifications, Architecture, Design, and Code Review. Managed Code release, Build and Deployment schedules, Defect Resolution, and testing deliverables in various environments (Team size- 22).  • Completed design, development and delivered automatic deployment of Application/WebSphere Portal server's EAR, WAR and JAR files using Python/Jython.  • Utilized Java/J2EE, JSF, Perl, Python, Jython, Log4j, Hibernate, Struts, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, SQL Server, Clear Case, Clear Quest, Cruise Control - continuous integration tool, MQ Series, IBM Web Server Application and Portal Servers. Chair, Computer Committee Dept. of Labor, State of NJ - Professional Service Group October 2009 to December 2010 • Managed a team of 20 people in the computer committee with various talents.  • Architected, designed, developed and tested a services delivery, database-driven website. Coded critical systems such as Registration Manager, Presentation Manager, Mail Manager, Event Manager, Membership Manager and Membership Rule Engine encompassing all activities of membership.  • Utilized Perl, Python, MySQL, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, Ajax, PHP, bash, csh, ksh and Apache in Linux/Windows environment.  • Coded a prototype website utilizing Java/J2EE, JSF, Core Java (multithreading/collections), spring, Junit, Log4j, Hibernate, JBOSS and MySQL technologies. Consultant/ Architect Cafe Holdings, LLC - Princeton, NJ April 2005 to September 2009 • Managed a team of 20 people in the entire organization in various levels.  • Architected, developed online application with credit card payment capability for online ordering. Orders were routed to closest geographical store with customer details such as packaging, shipping, etc.  • Architected, designed, developed and implemented a coupon-generating e-mail system as part of a total customer loyalty program and measured the outcome for management.  • Utilized Java/J2EE, JSF, Core Java (multithreading/collections), Junit, Log4j, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, MySQL, Perl, Python, bash, csh, ksh, Tomcat/Apache WebServer, Eclipse, Jboss and Microsoft project in Linux/Windows environment. Software Consultant E-Sun Solutions Inc - New York, NY November 2004 to March 2005 • Re-engineered, coded and tested an application to identify employees, their locations, reach numbers, etc. Provided a mechanism for sending text messages. Scoped the project requirements, designed, coded, tested (including UAT), and created the documentation and training materials.  • Utilized Java, J2EE, JSF, Core Java (multithreading/collections) , Log4j, Servlet, JSP, LDAP authentication, SQL Server, SUNTM Webserver6.1, Apache, bash, csh, ksh, Eclipse and Microsoft project in Linux/Windows environment.  • Set up a polling area on the corporate intranet for employees to enter their responses to the question of the day. E-Sun Solutions Inc - West Windsor, NJ March 2000 to March 2005 MPD Development Team Lead E-Sun Solutions Inc - New York, NY August 2004 to October 2004 • Managed a team of 15-20 people across various locations with different vendor teams.  • Directed the Master Product Database [MPD] development team of 9 developers to develop and deliver GTP-MPD interfaces, and modify the MPD database.  • Designed, coded and tested new and/or modified applications, significant subsystems and/or complex individual programs using Object Oriented techniques in adherence to specified business and design and coding guidelines.  • Utilized Java, J2EE, JSP/Servlet, JSF, Core Java (multithreading/collections), UML, HTML, JavaScript, XML, CSS, WebLogic, Oracle, Apache and Eclipse in Linux/Windows environment. Project Lead/ Architect E-Sun Solutions Inc - New York, NY September 2000 to May 2002 • Managed a team of 6 developers/testers/dba and SA.  • Technical Leader for the global Performance Calculation Engine covering equity and fixed income mutual funds. Led the workflow, analysis and definition system, developed system calculations, compliance and reporting needs, system architecture, SQL databases, stored procedures and triggers.  • Designed, coded and tested a server for monitoring the FIX messages with GUI (applets) using Java Swing (AWT) and JavaBeans.  • Utilized Java, J2EE, JDBC, JSP, Servlet, JSF, Core Java (multithreading/collections), Sybase/Oracle, UML, JavaScript, HTML, XML, SOAP, Dreamweaver, Tomcat Apache, WebLogic Application Server and shell scripts in Linux/Windows environment. Senior Developer Trading Edge, Inc - New York, NY September 1999 to March 2000 Develop, code and tested a prototype of Bond Trading System with a real time interface to Muni Bond insurers for insurance purchase utilizing Java Servlet, JSP, Core Java (multithreading/collections), UML (togetherJ), JavaScript, HTML, XML, JDBC, Oracle Database, bash, csh, ksh and Apache in Linux/Windows environment. Senior Systems Analyst Goldman Sachs & Co - New York, NY September 1998 to September 1999 • Project Leader responsible for the design, development, coding and testing of a Move Market Server that stored ask/bid prices and volume sent to NASDAQ using RogueWave, TIBCO Rendezvous, Rational Rose Libraries, RMI, Sybase and C++ in a sun Solaris.  • Designed, coded and tested web pages to track trades and report trade executions, cancellations and confirmations to Auditing and Compliance Officers using Java and CGI Perl.  • Designed, coded and tested Sales Server that stored prices, volumes and internal trader data along with a client for utilizing C++/C, Orbix, RMI, Sybase, Rational Rose and Apache in Linux/Windows environment. Senior Systems Analyst Merrill Lynch & Co - New York, NY November 1997 to September 1998 • Designed, coded and tested new client and server modules for International Order Routing System of Equities - IORS in a multi-tier architecture system using C++, Sybase CS/CT libraries and shell scripts in Solaris/Linux environment.  • Designed a prototype, coded and tested a replacement of the current proprietary messaging system with MQ. Systems Officer Chase Manhattan Bank October 1996 to November 1997 • Lead Developer in the design, code and testing of a reporting sub-system for US Treasury Instruments using C++, Perl, Sybase DB-lib, Rogue Wave libraries and Sybase Stored Procedures.  • Responsible for the design, code and tested an implementation of a market data feed from Knight rider, Bloomberg etc using C++, Perl, Sybase, bash, csh, ksh, awk and sed scripts in Solaris/Linux/Windows environment. Lead Analyst The Bank of New York - New York, NY July 1995 to August 1996 • Analyzed, designed and implemented various middleware components for VAX/VMS using Modula-2, RDB, RMS and Sybase system 10.  • Interacted with users and other backend application developers to create requirements for the system. Generated prototypes for front end screens, interfaces, reports and rapid prototyping of the systems. Member of Technical Staff AT&T Bell Laboratories - Whippany, NJ September 1991 to June 1995 • Designed, implemented, and tested Interference Look Ahead (ILA) and Forward Overload Control algorithms (FOC) using C and various UNIX kernels. Participated in entire software lifecycle.  • Designed, developed, modeled, and simulated chipsets for 486 based computer.  • Generated numerous K-Shell, Bourne Shell, csh, and awk and sed scripts to analyze data in Linux/Windows environment. Senior Engineer Allied-Signal Aerospace Company - Teterboro, NJ March 1986 to September 1991 • Prepared project plans, project schedules, and technical details for funding the project. Responded to RFP from various government services and companies.  • Developed a top down design with emphasis on behavioral modeling, memory compression and decompression;  • Using C modeled, simulated, and verified the system components utilizing CAE tools in a sun platform. Senior Engineer General Instruments Corp - Hicksville, NY May 1981 to July 1985 • Designed hardware and software for characterizing EEPROM cell ROMs, and Microprocessors.  • Analyzed and debugged CMOS single chip microcomputer; Education B.E in Electrical Engineering SUNY at Stonybrook, NY - Stony Brook, NY September 1977 to December 1982 Skills Python (4 years), Java (10+ years), Mysql (5 years), Javascript (3 years), Oracle (2 years), Perl (5 years)