Sr. Software Engineer Sr. Software Engineer Sr. Software Engineer ( Python developer) - SendHub.com Fremont, CA Results-driven software professional with over 10 years of software design and development experience looking for my next challenging opportunity. Wide industry experience working with startups and financial companies, bring a strong work ethic, ownership and will be an asset to a high performance team. Work Experience Sr. Software Engineer Kaiser Permanente Department Of Research - Oakland, CA January 2019 to Present Kaiser’s SDHT (Social Determinants of Health) is a system which tracks patients underlying contributing factors  of health inequalities.  ? Working on developing responsive pilot tracking system developed using python web framework Django.  ? Developing dynamic updating of web pages using AJAX and JQuery on client side.  ? Using Github for source code management  ? Working on creating custom forms for CRUD functionality using django tables, crispy forms and django  filter. Sr. Software Engineer ( Python developer) SendHub.com - Pleasanton, CA April 2018 to Present Skills and Tools: Python, Django, Flask, PostgresSQL, AWS, Twilio, Celery, RabbitMQ, Redis, Memcache, Salesforce, APEX, Tastypie REST API, AngularJS, Backbone JS, MVC architecture, Github, Amazon LEX, MySQL, Kazoo, MVC architecture  04/2018 to present Contractor, 06/2017 to 03/2018 Full Time  SendHub is a business SMS and voice platform enabling companies to add capabilities for online messaging, MMS, group texting, analytics, bulk actions and voice capabilities.  ? Responsibilities involved developing REST API's using tastypie web framework for Django and Flask REST API's. Developed Views and Templates with Django view controller and template language to create an easily accessible website interface for users.  ? Debugging and adding new functionality to the front end written in AngularJS and Backbone JS.  ? Knowledge of developing a chatbot using Amazon Lex for highly engaging conversational experiences, through voice and text, that can be customized and used on mobile devices, web browsers on popular chat platforms.  ? Configured Redis and Memcache for fast retrieval of data.  ? Integrated Twilio APIs to send and receive text messages in SendHub API.  ? Implemented Salesforce integration using simple-salesforce REST API client for Python. Created Apex classes, and written SOQL, SOSL queries for the data manipulation needs of the application using platform database objects in Apex Classes. Worked with Salesforce.com Sandbox and Production environments and deployed the configurations from Sandbox to Production using change sets. Worked on various standard salesforce objects like Accounts, Contacts, Leads, Opportunities and Campaigns.  ? Used Celery as task queue and RabbitMQ as messaging broker to execute asynchronous tasks..  ? Knowledge of Amazon AWS (VPC and subnets, EC2 instances, RDS, Elasticache).  ? Used Github for source code management.  ? Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team. Sr. Software Engineer KoreSchool.com - San Francisco, CA May 2015 to April 2017 Skills and Tools: Python, Django, MySQL, HTML, CSS, MVC architecture, Github  Startup in the exciting K 12 educational space, working with a small team prototyping and building a system from an idea board.    ? Python scripting to process school enrollments, grade and performance importing into SQL server.  ? Developed Views and Templates with Django view controller and template language to create an accessible website interface for users.  ? Developed dynamic web pages using Python Django frameworks and used Django APIs for database access.  ? Developed Python Django forms to record and access data of online users.  ? Applied MVT architecture in the development of the web applications with the help of Django framework.  ? Experienced in developing Python scripts to update the content in database and manipulate files.  ? Used Github for source code management. Sr. Software Engineer Delta Dental Insurance - San Francisco, CA May 2007 to August 2010 Skills and Tools: Visual Basic 6.0, Oracle 9i, Lawson API 9.0, Cobol, Rational Clear case 7.0, IBM Rational Clear Quest 6.0  AARP National for Delta Dental enables members to manage enrollments, transfers, reinstatement or re enrollments. As a Sr. Software Engineer working on a critical product, involved in several important modules such as Eligibility Administration System (EAS), Billing for invoices, Web enrollment, Lawson financial system for fund settlement, Mainframe interfaces for adjudication of claims.  ? Responsibilities' also included enhancing the Visual Basic, ASP, SQL Server code base for production and operational support. Designed and implemented interfaces between AARP National and Lawson Financial systems.  ? Enhancement and maintenance of VB 6.0 code base of EAS billing system.  ? Implemented interfaces between Lawson AR and DL jobs using Lawson API's.  ? Designed and documented interface and process flow between AARP National and Lawson Financial Systems. Sr. Software Engineer EY, NJ September 2005 to May 2007 Skills and Tools: Visual Basic 6.0, SQL Server 2003, Classic ASP, MSMQ, F Secure, Control M, Lotus Notes.  EY's AMPS implementation of the Day One product called eProvision. This GUI application provides an easy interface for personnel to provision/de provision resources such as accounts, new hires, self-service business changes.  ? Developed wrappers for implementing data flow between disparate systems. Designed and implemented complex business rules. Worked on backend (SQL) middleware (Visual Basic COM components) and ASP front end.  ? Generated data migration scripts in SQL Server.  ? Production and operational support. Sr. Software Engineer Concord Financial Systems - New York, NY March 2003 to August 2005 Skills and Tools: Visual Basic 6, COM+, IIS, Oracle 9i, VBScript, JavaScript, XML, XSL, EFSNET, Cyber source, NACHA, TrustComerce.  Concord EFS provides technology and secure high availability network systems enabling payment and other financial transactions quicker and more efficient and increasing security. Involved in designing and implementing interfaces with several financial systems.  Part of a high performance team implementing multiple payment processors like Cyber Source, NACHA, Trust Commerce based on various Financial institution requirements. EFSNET provided payment services for Credit card, debit cards, Gift cards, EBT. System also supported Verified by VISA, Identity check, Tele check.  ? Worked on critical implementation of Verified by VISA to authenticate cardholders account ownership in real time during online VISA transactions. Worked on COM+, VB 6.0, XML, XSL, SOAP PLSQL, and Relationship wrappers.  ? Implemented critical interfaces for Credit Card authorization, fraud check and fund settlements. CC authorizations implementation over HTTPS, SOAP and XML using EFSNET XML web services. Sr. Software Engineer Yahoo/HotJobs.com - New York, NY April 2001 to September 2002 Designed and presented prototypes for demonstration of new interfaces. Developed COM components, integrated Microsoft commerce object, KANA Silk net objects. Working with end users to resolved production bugs. Responsibilities also included migrations to production environments.  ? Designed business processes and rules supporting growing current and future business  ? Strategies of HotJobs and Yahoo INC.  ? Production and end user support.  ? Performed unit, system and user acceptance testing and automating test scripts.  ? Responsible for migration from development to various testing environments.  ? Created Visual Basic performance monitoring tool to log and monitor public functions and methods in deployed COM + DLL's Software Engineer Priceline - Norwalk, CT March 1999 to November 2000 Designed and developed prototypes for Priceline testing and automating test scripts..  ? Worked on backend (SQL) middleware (Visual Basic COM components) and ASP front end.  ? Production and end user support..    Skills  Python, Django, TastyPie Framework, Flask, Node.JS, AngularJS, Backbone JS, MongoDB, Postgres, MySQL, Amazon AWS, RDS, Redis, MemCache, Amazon LEX, Chatbots, SQL Server, PL SQL, Visual Basic 6.0, COM+, Classic ASP. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science Bombay University - Mumbai, Maharashtra 1996 Bachelor of Science in Electronics Pune University 1993 Skills Python, Linux, AWS