Full Stack Python developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">developer</span> Full Stack Web Developer San Rafael, CA Well versed and experienced working as a web developer focused on Python, Java (J2SE, J2EE), JavaScript, Jquery, HTML, CSS, JSP, ASP, Tomcat, Apache   Experienced performing application support and maintenance.  Proficient in real-time Internet application environments such as E-Commerce applications, Web-based Portals, and Intranet/Extranet development.  Experienced working with Windows, UNIX, Linux, Mac OS, IOS and Andriod.  Has a good understanding of internationalization of web sites in terms of usage, design, and construction.  Experienced with web design/graphic design and interactive multimedia.  Experienced in IOS and Android app development using Appcelerator Titanium & Alloy, Ionic/cordova as well as native programming in Swift and Andriod Java. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Full Stack Python developer Bank of America/Apex Systems - San Francisco, CA December 2017 to December 2018 I’m on a one year contract at Bank of America. I am doing full stack development, focused on improving the User Interface of existing pages as well as developing new applications for internal company use.     • Back end development: Python/Flask environment.  • Database development SQLServer.    • Front end development: HTML, CSS, JavaScript. The JavaScript is mostly Jquery and native programming with some work in ReactJS. Senior UI Developer Healthline Inc - San Francisco, CA June 2014 to December 2017 Designed and Developed UI and Front end engineering for the healthline.com website, as well as healthline's mobile apps, using HTML, CSS, Javascript, Jquery, bootstrap, angular, Ionic/cordova, Swift 2 and Java    • Just started learning ReactJS which our next platform will be based on.  • IOS Swift and Ionic developer for healthline.com apps such as MSBuddy, and KneeGym.  • I have also assisted in the development of the Android versions of our apps.  • I created a tool that would parse a pasted Word Document table and convert it to a responsive web table for our editors to include in articles on our site.  • For the last two years I have created iPhone apps for Healthline's annual Hackathon and have placed in the top 3 both years. Senior UI Developer triporati.com - San Francisco, CA November 2011 to May 2014 Designed and developed UI and front end engineering for Triporati website and all cobranded websites using HTML, CSS, Javascript, JQuery, AJAX, Jboss, MySQL, Eclipse.    • Updated the look and feel of the Triporati.com website. I designed and implemented a brand new interface as well as new functionality.  • Created mockups using Photoshop for proof of concept and presentations.  • Created ads and ad sized interactive widgets to be shown on partner websites.  • Created many cobranded websites for Triporati deals with Expedia, Hotwire, Huffington Post, Thomas Cook, and for 3 regional AAA websites. For these websites I customized the look and feel to match the partner's aesthetic, and created new functionality as required for the particular co-brand deal. I also created websites for Priceline and Orbitz, although the websites never went live due to a failure to reach an agreement. Senior Web Developer Walmart.com - Brisbane, CA April 2004 to November 2011 Designed and programmed UI and server-side software for Web applications for high volume ecommerce site using Java, J2EE, JavaScript, Struts, Tiles, JSP, DHTML/CSS, XML and related technologies. Contributions:    • Implemented the UI and created HTML and JSP pages.  • Developed drop down menu and dynamic tabs widgets using JavaScript & DHTML/CSS  • Bug fixing and assisting other developers in resolving client-side user interface issues.  • Created XSLT style sheets for transforming XML data into HTML.  • Implemented interactive multimedia Open Laszlo (Flash) modules on our website.  • Developed Server Side Java in a Struts/Tiles/J2EE environment.    Environment: JSP, Java, Tomcat, HTML, CSS, DHTML, JavaScript, SQL, Oracle 9, UI design, Struts, Tiles Senior Web Developer Providian Financial - San Francisco, CA February 2001 to March 2004 • Development and maintenance of an e-commerce system that has over 3 million registered users.  • The Application server for this system is Sun ONE/iPlanet for production, and Tomcat for development.  • Development, support and maintenance as well as project management.  • I have lead many projects while at Providian including the redesign of the application to allow the web pages to dynamically re-brand themselves based on the brand of the customer's credit card.  • Developed JSP pages. Created custom JSP Tags. Created and edited HTML using Dreamweaver.  • Created JavaScript, CSS and DHTML to make interactive HTML content, such as dynamic drop-down menus.  • Performed application support: Being on call to diagnose and fix errors in the application by looking through the server and application logs to identify where and why errors were thrown.  • Maintained application to keep it running with changing hardware, network and data sources.  • Programmed and edited Java code using, Forte, Visual Cafe, and TextPad.  • Created Business objects to perform business logic and connect to outside data-sources using JDBC (SQL and Stored procedures) and XML.  • Created and edited Servlets. Created Controller functionality using both an in-house MVC structure as well as Struts. Create tools in Swing/AWT to assist developers.  • Used SQL-Programmer Plus to view database tables, stored procedures, and write SQL statements to access data from an Oracle 8i Database.  • All code was developed using Java, with dynamic information coming from an Oracle 8 Database server. I have developed tools, to assist the development staff, using Swing and AWT. I worked with QA department to identify and fix bugs.  • Project management, managing teams of up to 7 people.  • Used MS Project to scope work and manage timelines for projects.  • All code was developed locally using Tomcat running on my workstation. Once code was running successfully on my local system, a TAR file is built and deployed on an iPlanet application server running on a UNIX server.  • Created and maintained technical documentation for the applications that I work on.    Environment: JSP, Java, Tomcat, iPlanet, HTML, CSS, DHTML, JavaScript, SQL, Oracle 8, NetDynamics, UI design Senior Web Developer (Perm Employee Scient - San Francisco, CA November 1999 to December 2000 Company filed Chapter 11 and laid off most employees)    Project # 1  • I was an internal applications developer. In the first 2 months applications were created in ASP but later we transitioned to a Java environment.  • I created JSP pages that implemented the user interface and presented the data it received from Java Beans.  • While at Scient, I was in charge of reviewing and implementing the User Interface (UI), Information Architecture (IA), and the Graphic Design/layout of all internal web applications.  • Developed Web applications in ASP and JSP for the company Intranet.  • Created and edited Java Servlets. Created and edited HTML using Dreamweaver.  • Created and edited graphics using Photoshop, Fireworks, Flash and 3DStudio Max.  • Optimized graphics for the web. Created JavaScript and DHTML to make interactive HTML content, such as dynamic drop-down menus. I created many web applications that accessed and manipulated data from a SQL Server 7 Database.  • I created Java Servlets that interacted with the database and Java beans which accessed the Servlets, and performed the business logic.  • Developed user interface/graphic design for all new Intranet applications.  • Advised other developers on UI and usability issues.  • Developed information architecture for new or existing Intranet websites.  • Programmed and edited Java code using, Visual Cafe, and TextPad.  • Met with clients to gather requirements, define process, and get feedback on progress.  • Created and maintained technical documentation for the applications that I work on.  • Worked with SQL Server 7 to create and maintain database tables, add new fields and search for existing data sources in the company.    Environment: JSP, IIS, Java, HTML, CSS, DHTML, JavaScript, SQL, SQL Server 7, UI design    Project # 2  • I redesigned the look and interface functionality for their company dashboard application. I also created a new application for dynamically viewing department organizations, which uses a JavaScript tree control, ASP and SQL. I worked extensively with SQL Server 7 and learned how to use SQL Server 7's database replication and merging capabilities.  • Developed Web applications in ASP for the company Intranet  • Created and edited HTML using Dreamweaver. Created and edited graphics using Photoshop, Fireworks, Flash and 3DStudio Max.  • Created JavaScript and DHTML to make interactive HTML content, such as dynamic drop-down menus. Developed user interface/graphic design for all new Intranet applications.  • Advised other developers on UI and usability issues.  • Developed information architecture for new or existing Intranet websites.  • Met with clients to gather requirements, define process, and get feedback on progress.  • Created and maintained technical documentation for the applications that I worked on.  • Worked with SQL Server 7 to create and maintain database tables, add new fields and search for existing data sources in the company.    Environment: ASP, IIS, HTML, CSS, DHTML, JavaScript, SQL, SQL Server 7, UI design Web Developer (Contract) Bank of America - Concord, CA August 1999 to November 1999 • I created dynamic database driven web pages in ASP, JavaScript, and VBScript that drew their content from SQL Server 7.  • Developed a web application in ASP. Created and edited HTML using Dreamweaver.  • Create and edited graphics using Photoshop. Optimized graphics for the web.  • Created JavaScript and DHTML for form validation.  • Met with clients to gather requirements, define process, and get feedback on progress.  • Worked with SQL Server 7 to create and maintain database tables, added new fields and searched for existing data sources in the company.  • I implemented an application wide security/maintenance system, and worked with the SQL Server 7 Enterprise Manager to set up and manipulate the database.  • I created JavaScript functions that validated and coordinated form fields based on a strict set of business rules.    Environment: ASP, IIS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, SQL, SQL Server 7, UI design Web Developer (Contract) Scient - San Francisco, CA March 1999 to August 1999 • I redesigned their Intranet using Active Server Page (ASP) programming, VBScript, JavaScript, Flash 3 and ActiveX controls to improve the usability of their award winning(after my improvements) knowledge management system.  • I used ASP to retrieve page content from SQL server 7, which I then used to generate dynamic pages with the most current and relevant articles and information.  • Developed Web applications in ASP for the company Intranet  • Created and edited HTML using Dreamweaver. Created and edited graphics using Photoshop. Optimized graphics for the web.  • Created JavaScript and DHTML to make interactive HTML content, such as dynamic slide out side menus.  • Created and maintained technical documentation for the application that I worked on.  • Worked with SQL Server 7 to create and maintain database tables, add new fields and search for existing data sources in the company.    Environment: ASP, IIS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, SQL, SQL Server 7, UI design Art Director/3D Artist (Perm Employee Fitness Interactive Technologies - Tahoe, NV, US June 1998 to November 1998 - start up company; closed business in 3 months)    • Project Management. Set milestones and made sure that they were met.  • Set up processes and coordinated with upper management  • Used Photoshop to edit texture maps  • Used 3D animation software to model and animate Yosemite Valley    Environment: Management, Project Management, MS Project, 3D Art/Animation. Web Developer/Web Designer/Art Director (Contract) MetaMedia Associates - Alameda, CA March 1998 to June 1998 • I was responsible for programming web database and e-commerce web sites in ASP. I used ASP with ODBC database connection to build a dynamic database driven website. Developed ASP Websites  • Created and edited HTML using FrontPage. Used JavaScript to preload graphics and make dynamic menu interfaces. Project Management. User interface design.    Environment: ASP, IIS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, SQL, MS Access DB, Photoshop, UI design Art Director/3D Artist (Perm Employee) Individual Software - Pleasanton, CA February 1996 to March 1998 • Created and edited HTML using FrontPage  • Used Photoshop to create, edit and optimize graphics.  • Managed Projects. Provided art direction for all products.  • User interface design. Organized the information architecture for CD-ROM based training programs as well as the company website. Multimedia authoring for interactive training products. Conceptual design for interactive computer games.    Environment: Management, Project Management, Photoshop, Graphic Design, 3D Art/Animation, HTML, UI design. Production Assistant/Graphic Artist AnimaTek International - San Mateo, CA September 1995 to February 1996 Graphic Designer Marzetta Signs, Inc - Richmond, CA March 1993 to September 1995