JavaScript and Python programmer JavaScript and <span class="hl">Python</span> programmer JavaScript and Python programmer - Defense Language Institute Seaside, CA As a computer programmer, GIS analyst, database analyst, technical writer, computer support and helpdesk technician - even once a PC repairman - I have a great variety of experience in the computer field. I have programmed a variety of different software, including computer graphics, communications software, operating systems and databases, all in a great variety of programming languages, including SQL, dBASE, Fortran, Pascal, Visual Basic, MATLAB, Perl, PHP, Python, JavaScript, Java, C, C++ and Oracle PL/SQL. Work Experience JavaScript and Python programmer Defense Language Institute December 2015 to Present programming websites for foreign language instruction. Visual Basic programmer and UI designer Fox Thermal Instruments June 2014 to July 2014 redesigning the user interface for their calibration operators to make it more user-friendly and bug-free. Also added new features to their user interface. Python programmer MediaLocate September 2013 to June 2014 a software localization firm. Used Python to automate the reformatting of text and Excel files from customers. Monterey Peninsula College and at California State University February 2010 to May 2013 20 hrs./week): Tutored Computer Science students in Java, C++, PHP and Python at Monterey Peninsula College and at California State University, Monterey Bay. Java programmer Monterey Peninsula College and at California State University June 2011 to July 2011 wrote software simulators in Java for two weather sensors: the relative humidity and temperature sensor and the lightning detector sensor, and used Java Swing components to create a user-friendly graphical user interface. Web Developer and bookkeeper, I November 2007 to June 2008 developed the company's website and, using QuickBooks, helped do the accounting for Lewis and More, a small business in Monterey which sold British specialty items. Web Programmer U.S. Logics, I June 2007 to October 2007 programmed in Visual Basic 2005 and SQL Server 2005 for ASP.NET web applications, including processing forms and storing data that users entered on the forms into SQL Server databases. Java Programmer and SQL Developer Global Weather Dynamics, I December 2005 to September 2006 formulated and tested SQL queries and procedures using the MySQL database management system and embedded the resulting SQL statements inside of Java programs using JDBC. I also wrote and debugged Java programs using the Eclipse IDE. GIS Analyst, I Geographical Information Systems July 1997 to December 2004 performed a variety of GIS (Geographical Information Systems) tasks for a variety of local governmental entities, including AMBAG (the Association of Monterey Bay Area Governments) and the cities of Soledad, Salinas, Pacific Grove and Marina. These tasks included digitizing existing paper maps in order to create GIS layers such as tax assessor parcel maps, zoning district maps and street center-line maps. I also wrote programs in the Avenue scripting language for ESRI's ArcView 3.0 GIS software and also wrote technical documents, including a twenty-page User's Guide on "How to do Zoning Notification through a GIS." Help-Desk Technician User Services Group at the Naval Postgraduate School September 1992 to June 1997 in the User Services Group at the Naval Postgraduate School's main Computer Center, manning the Help Desk and assisting the students, staff and faculty in overcoming any hardware or software problems that they encountered. Also wrote and revised technical documentation and wrote a program to automatically install modem communication programs onto PCs, besides writing C shell scripts to assist in the systems administration of the School's UNIX workstations. Database Analyst Defense Language Institute's Academic Records Management May 1989 to August 1992 branch, writing SQL queries and scripts and generating reports for the use of management. I also wrote dBASE programs to permit a ScanTron optical mark reader attached to a PC to scan, score and compile statistics for a dozen different standard-ized test forms. I also taught two-day classes in dBASE to the staff and faculty of the DLI. In addition, I served as a Computer Support Engineer in the DLI Information Center from May 1989 to November 1991, maintaining the hardware and software for about 300 PCs. Data Analyst at the Monterey Peninsula Water Management District FoxBASE+ October 1988 to April 1989 to write database programs for hydrological data (for example, I wrote programs to create data entry screens to allow the users to easily enter the data in the first place, and then wrote additional programs to print reports and plot graphs of the data). Software Engineer Tiburon Systems Incorporated January 1986 to November 1987 programming in Ada and assembly language for the Tomahawk cruise missile Mission Planning system and participating in software engineering practices such as design reviews and structured walkthroughs of code. Systems Programmer Digital Research Incorporated November 1984 to July 1985 programming in Intel 8086 assembly language and in PL/M in order to fix bugs in their Concurrent DOS operating system. Scientific programmer Science Applica-tions International Corporation August 1984 to November 1984 converting a numerical modeling program written in Fortran II into Fortran IV so that it would run more efficiently. graphics programmer for FNMOC's Naval Environ-mental Display Station June 1980 to February 1984 NEDS), I did assembly language programming for its graphics processor in order to display a variety of vectors, character fonts and specialized weather symbols such as wind barbs. I also wrote the graphics processor code to display and print weather satellite pictures. As part of a three-man team, I also helped to design, code and debug the operating system for the microprocessor version of the NEDS (the kernel was written in Intel 8085 assembly language; the utilities in PL/M). I also did the communications programming for the NEDS so that it could get certified for a secure DOD communications circuit called AUTODIN. Programmer Telos Corporation June 1978 to June 1980 a defense contractor for FNMOC. Implemented the fax broadcast capability of the NEDS (Naval Environmental Display Station), including automated scanning of weather charts and weather reports for subsequent fax broadcast to ships out at sea. Also coded and debugged a Fortran program that formatted raw SEASAT satellite data for subsequent storage in database files. Assembly language and FORTRAN programmer Control Data Corporation June 1977 to June 1978 a defense contractor for FNMOC, doing maintenance programming for the NEDS (Naval Environmental Display Station) in assembly language. Education ArcView Avenue Programming California State University June 1998 Defense Language Institute 1992 certificate in UNIX/C Programming Foothill College April 1988 to June 1988 Bachelor of Science in Computer Science California State University September 1972 to June 1977 Certifications/Licenses Oracle Certified Associate in PL/SQL Development October 2009 to Present