Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer Houston, TX • Over 3+ Years of experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Management and Implementation of various stand-alone, client-server enterprise applications in Python on various domains.  • Good experience in developing web applications implementing Model View Control architecture using Django web application frameworks.  • Experienced in working with various Python IDE's using PyCharm, PyScripter, Spyder, PyStudio and PyDev  • Expertise in Object-Oriented design and coding.  • Good experience in Python, Django, Shell Scripting, SQL Server, Unix and Linux.  • Experience on complete Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) in enterprise, web-based, Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) and client/server applications with models like Waterfall, Agile/Scrum Methodology  • Developed web applications and Restful web services and APIs using Python, Flask, and Django.  • Built custom UI Widgets and Application logic using OOD and MVC architecture.  • Useful learning of web services with protocols SOAP, REST.  • Proficient in Object Oriented JavaScript along with Design patterns including Prototypes, Closures and Object-Oriented Design/Development (OOD) and Model View Control (MVC) design pattern  • Developed single page applications using Angular 2, Typescript, HTML5, CSS3, and Bootstrap4 for Responsive Web Design (RWD)  • Experience working on CSS Preprocessors like LESS and SASS  • Solid understanding of RDBMS (MySQL, SQL Server 2014)  • Have good knowledge on NoSQL databases like Cassandra, MongoDB.  • Involved in Test Driven Development along with Unit Testing.  • Worked on API testing tool like Postman to test web services at server side  • Used JIRA 7.1 for bug tracking and multiple version control tools like GIT 2.x, SVN  • Experience in IDE tool like Atom, Sublime, Visual Studio  • Strong problem-solving, organizing, communication and planning skills, with ability to work in team environment Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Python Developer TransUnion - Austin, TX August 2017 to May 2018 Project Description: TransUnion is a consumer credit reporting agency. TransUnion also markets credit reports and other credit and fraud-protection products directly to consumers. Here we developed an application which the managers use to study the customers activities and output an analysis.  Responsibilities:  • Participated in all the stages of software development lifecycle like design, development, and implementation and testing.  • Django Framework that was used in developing web applications to implement the model view control architecture.  • For database access Django API's have been used.  • Business logic implementation, data exchange, XML processing and graphics creation has been done using Python and Django.  • Views and Templates were developed with Python and to create a user-friendly website interface Django's view controller and template language is used.  • Developed UI using CSS, HTML, JavaScript, AngularJS, JQuery and JSON.  • DB2 SQL Procedures and UNIX Shell Scripts were designed and developed for Data Import/Export and Conversions.  • A Django dashboard with custom look and feel for end user has been created after a careful study of the Django admin site and dashboard.  • Unit Test Python library was used for testing many programs on python and other codes.  • JIRA was used to build an environment for development.  • Different testing methodologies like unit testing, Integration testing, web application testing were performed.  • For the extraction of data from the database various queries were written and a database was created using MYSQL.  • Search engine optimization by replacing existing database with MongoDB (NoSQL Database).  • In order to avoid the reloading of the entire web page to update small portions, AJAX in UI was used.  • For sending and receiving the data between multiple systems RESTful Web-Services were implemented.  • Features for dashboard were developed and tested using CSS, JavaScript, Django, and Bootstrap.  • Git repository was created and added to GitHub project.  • An application was developed in Linux environment and dealt with all of its commands.  • Performance and consistency being the main factors of consideration the code was tuned.  • Actively worked as a part of team with managers and other staff to meet the goals of the project in the stipulated time.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.6, JavaScript, HTML, Angular JS, JQuery, JSON, CSS, MySQL, Bootstrap, Git. Python Developer - Intern I-Exceed technology & Solutions - Bengaluru, Karnataka March 2016 to August 2016 Project Description: I-Exceed is a digital transformation partner for many financial institutions. Here we developed a corporate banking application that can be used to manage the accounting of the company. It is designed using some standards can be customized according to the organization.  Responsibilities:  • MVC framework for the back-end while the front-ends were built using the Blueprint CSS Framework and HTML.  • Responsible for designing, coding and developed the application in Python using Django MVC.  • Designed and developed base classes, framework classes and re-usable components.  • Designed web pages using JavaScript/ HTML.  • Made use of inheritance concept to reuse different methods in most of the developed classes.  • Developed multiple web applications using Django Framework.  • Performed client side validations using JavaScript and server side validations using various other frameworks.  • Embedded AJAX in UI to update small portions of the web page avoiding the need to reload the entire page.  • Actively involved in analysis of the system requirements specifications and involved in client interaction during requirements specifications.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Django, Bootstrap, CSS and JavaScript.  • Performed Unit testing, Integration testing, involved in designing mobile search application system requirements  and coded back-end and front-end in Django/ Python.  • Interactive in providing change requests, trouble reports and requirements collection with the client.  • Experience in using Git, GitHub, and Amazon EC2 and deployment using Heroku.  • Designed and developed Web services using XML and JQuery.  • Participated actively in unit testing, integration testing and GUI.  • Having very good experience using Scaffolding tools like GIT    Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.4, AngularJS, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, JSON, MySQL, Heroku, GitHub. Python Developer - Intern I-Exceed technology & Solutions - Bengaluru, Karnataka January 2015 to February 2016 Project Description: I-Exceed is a digital transformation partner for many financial institutions. Here we developed a corporate banking application that can be used to manage the accounting of the company. It is designed using some standards can be customized according to the organization.  Responsibilities:  • MVC framework for the back-end while the front-ends were built using the Blueprint CSS Framework and HTML.  • Responsible for designing, coding and developed the application in Python using Django MVC.  • Designed and developed base classes, framework classes and re-usable components.  • Designed web pages using JavaScript/ HTML.  • Made use of inheritance concept to reuse different methods in most of the developed classes.  • Developed multiple web applications using Django Framework.  • Performed client side validations using JavaScript and server side validations using various other frameworks.  • Embedded AJAX in UI to update small portions of the web page avoiding the need to reload the entire page.  • Actively involved in analysis of the system requirements specifications and involved in client interaction during requirements specifications.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Django, Bootstrap, CSS and JavaScript.  • Performed Unit testing, Integration testing, involved in designing mobile search application system requirements  and coded back-end and front-end in Django/ Python.  • Interactive in providing change requests, trouble reports and requirements collection with the client.  • Experience in using Git, GitHub, and Amazon EC2 and deployment using Heroku.  • Designed and developed Web services using XML and JQuery.  • Participated actively in unit testing, integration testing and GUI.  • Having very good experience using Scaffolding tools like GIT    Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.4, AngularJS, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, JSON, MySQL, Heroku, GitHub. Full Stack Developer ( Python/Django) - Intern Citi Bank - Bengaluru, Karnataka July 2014 to December 2014 Project Description: Citi Bank is a digital transformation partner for many financial institutions. Here we developed an application which the managers use to study the customers activities and output an analysis.  Responsibilities:  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Participated in all stages of the SDLC process.  • Developed user interface using CSS, HTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Wrote Python modules to extract data from the MySQL source database.  • Designed and implemented a dedicated MYSQL database server to drive the web applications and report on daily  progress.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Used Django framework for application development.  • Created entire application using Python, Django, MySQL and Linux.  • Designed and managed API system development using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture.  • Installed, configured and monitored scripts for AWS EC2 instances.  • Liaised with business analysts and manual test team leaders to perform risk analysis and assessment associated  with automation testing.  • Implemented RESTful Web Services for the data transportation between multiple systems.  • Developed remote integration with third party platforms by using RESTful web services.  • Worked on Jenkins continuous integration tool for deployment of project.  • Deployed the project into Jenkins using GIT version control system.  • Developed an application in Linux environment and dealt with all of its commands.  • Developed, tested and debugged software tools utilized by clients and internal customers.  • Coded test programs and evaluated existing engineering processes.  • Designed and configured database and back end applications and programs.  • Experienced in Linux shell commands and command line utilities.  • Explored and identified new technological platforms.  • Collaborated with internal teams to convert end user feedback into meaningful and improved solutions.  • Determined problems, solved them and precisely documented progress of the project.  • Actively worked as a part of team with managers and other staff to meet the goals of the project in the stipulated  time.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.4, AngularJS, AWS, Jenkins, MySQL, Linux, HTML, CSS, JQuery, JavaScript, Linux, Git. Python Developer - Intern ActOnMagic - Bengaluru, Karnataka January 2014 to June 2014 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Business requirements, Data analysis and System design meeting.  • Created entire web application using Python, Django and MySQL.  • Used HTML, CSS and JavaScript to create front end pages using Django Templates and wrote Django Views to implement application functions and business logic.  • Used packages such as Beautiful Soup for data parsing.  • Generated Python Django forms to record data of online users and used PyTest for writing test cases.  • Used RESTful API for information extraction.  • Implemented Python components and Web Logic server was deployed and used Subversion control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Wrote Python routines to log into the websites and fetch data for selected options.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL and optimized the database queries to improve the performance.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Participated actively in unit testing, integration testing and GUI.  • Used Python twitter library for fetching the twitter feeds for some important keywords.  • Implemented Django models to build all database mapping classes and used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Worked on the Multi-Threading factory to distribute back-testing and the learning process into multiple worker processes.  • Tuned the code with performance and consistency as the main factors of consideration.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.4, MySQL 5, LAMP, SVN, XML, JavaScript, CSS, JQuery, HTML, AJAX, Rest Web Services, LINUX Education Masters in Computer Science in Computer Science Texas A&M University Kingsville - Kingsville, TX Skills DJANGO (3 years), HTML (3 years), JAVASCRIPT (3 years), PYTHON (3 years), CSS (3 years), Restful, AWS, Flask Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Programming Languages C, C++, Python.  Scripting Languages CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, JQuery, Typescript.  Markup Languages HTML, XML, JSON.  Frameworks Django, Flask, AngularJS/2.  Operating Systems Linux, Ubuntu, MacOS, Windows XP/Vista/7/8/10, Android.  Databases MySQL, SQLite, PostgreSQL, MongoDB, OracleDB.  IDEs/Tools PyCharm, Sublime Text, Visual Studio Code, Eclipse.  Version Control Systems GitHub, Bit Bucket.  Methodologies & Tools Object Oriented Programming, UML, Agile Scrum.  Application Expertise MS Word, MS Excel, MS PowerPoint, AutoCAD.