Python Developer, UNIX and PlSql developer, associate Architecture <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span>, UNIX and PlSql <span class="hl">developer</span>, associate Architecture Python Developer, UNIX and PlSql developer, associate Architecture - Toyota Motors Allen, TX • 11 years of total experience in IT.  • AWS certified solution architect.  • 10 Pl/Sql Programming for application development and back-end development using Stored Procedure, Cursor, Functions and Triggers and Dynamic SQL using PL/SQL with advanced PL/SQL techniques such as REF Cursor, Collections and Bulk Operations.  • 8 years of experience in Oracle Apex for web application, work-flow applications and interactive reports.  • 8 years of experience with SDLC  • 3 years with Agile scrum.  • 7 years of experience in ETL with informatica.  • 5 years of reporting experience using tools like BO, OBIEE reporting, Excel and Oracle APEX.  • 2.5 Years of experience in Business Objects XI R3 Webi and Universe designer.  • 2 years of experience in Sql server and SSIS packages for ETL.  • 1 years of experience in Macromedia Flash 8, Java, XML.  • 5 years of experience in UNIX scripting.  • 1 year of experience in AWS Cloud environment with Python and MongoDB.  • 5 years of experience in manufacturing domain.  • 2 years of experience in Telematics and IOT domain.  • Working knowledge of RESTful APIs.  • Experience with OLTP and OLAP environments.  • Working knowledge of Erwin data modeler tool.  • Working knowledge of IBM cognos.  • Good exposure on UNIX, Shell Scripting, Batch Programs.  • Fair exposure on different segments of the data warehousing life-cycle that includes business requirements gathering & analyzing, data modeling ETL and business reporting.  • Expertise on tools like Toad, SQL developer, redwood and Appworx.  • Experience with Databases Oracle (9i, 11g, 12c).  • Involved in DB upgrade from 9i to 11g and 11g to 12c.  • Strong exposure to Clear Case, Clear Quest, GIT and Jira.  • Expertise in Data Modeling, PL/SQL AND Visio.  • Proven expertise of dealing with people across diverse teams comprising of various skillsets.  • Good Team Management skills with experience in handling teams with 8+ members having worked in both offshore and Onsite locations.  • Interaction with clients & business as part of Onsite Coordinator Role.  • Involved in architectural design for data flow between partner and affiliate system of Toyota Motors North America through APIs and SFTP.  • Involved in Query Optimization, Improving Performance of the queries, Re-designing the query flow.  • Involved in Project Estimates, creating Statement of Work.  • Proficient with the Software Development Cycle and have developed the Design Documents, Requirement Traceability Matrix, etc.  • Excellent commitment, dedication and planning towards goal-oriented tasks and problem-solving skills with good interpersonal and communication skills.  • Excellent communication and interpersonal skills, quick learner, self-motivated, ability to work individually and as well as in a team environment with good team spirit. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Python Developer, UNIX and PlSql developer, associate Architecture Toyota Motors - Plano, TX March 2018 to Present Plano, Texas Mar 2018 - Till Date  Project: 17CY+ Telematics Management System  Software: AWS Cloud, Spring boot, Python, MongoDB, Oracle 12c, Informatica 9.6, JIRA, Unix, Putty, Redwood, GIT, Jenkins, Agile Scrum  Role Played: Python Developer, UNIX and PlSql developer, associate Architecture  Designation: Technology Lead    Project overview:  The project is to enable IOT based telematics enabled Toyota and Lexus vehicle and vehicle data flow into Central Vehicle Store (based on AWS platform) from where it will be transmitted to different service providers and Telematics partners for further data enrichment. These enriched data are flown into downstream systems from Central Telematics Portal(again based on AWS platform) through on-premise UNIX system and APIs.    Responsibilities:  • Working as a AWS solution architecture.  • Defined process of bridging AWS to on-premise UNIX box without direct connect.  • Responsible for defining SSH key rotation process from SFTP system to AWS for security.  • Responsible for defining AWS lamda functions for smooth transition of data to/from MongoDB installed in EC2 instance.  • Used SQS and SNS service for notification and queue services.  • Responsible for designing VPCs for different services.  • Responsible for creating S3 buckets for file and data storage before being transmitted to mongodb.  • Works in agile method using Jira.  • Responsible for file handling between Toyota affiliates/partners.  • Responsible for decrypting and encrypting files using gpg keys provided by affiliates.    Environment: AWS Cloud, On-Prem UNIX server. Technology Analyst Toyota Motors - Plano, TX June 2017 to February 2018 Plano, Texas Jun 2017 - Feb 2018  Project: Telematics Management System(TMS)  Software: Oracle 12c, Informatica 9.6, JIRA, Unix, Putty, Redwood, Agile Scrum, Power BI  Role Played: UNIX and PlSql developer  Designation: Technology Analyst    Project overview:  This is a data warehouse system for all Toyota vehicles related data, i.e. vehicle details, subscription, enrollment, factory feed, registration etc. It accepts data from different partners like VERIZON, Denso Navlabs and SXM with user data and all other related data which are needed to transform and put into oracle DW.    Responsibilities:  • Working as a developer in Oracle PlSql & Unix.  • Works in agile method using Jira.  • Responsible for file handling between Toyota affiliates/partners.  • Responsible for decrypting and encrypting files using gpg keys provided by affiliates.  • Responsible to get the files into DSS system to process them using informatica and then to put into Oracle telematics dw.  • All the data come inform of flat files/ xml files from affiliates/partners.  • Work on maintaining and enhancing ETL mappings as per requirement.  • Responsible for writing new mappings for app enhancements and rule changes for end customers by Toyota/Lexus dealers.  • Responsible for writing packages, procedures and functions to manipulate data for reporting purpose and put them into final tables which will be used for creating reports.  • Responsible for creating interactive reports with Power BI for dealer enrollment application.  • Responsible for writing stories for sprints.  • Responsible for documentation for support transition.  • Responsible for providing transition of applications.  • Informatica is used for data transformation.  • Power BI is being used to develop reports and applications related to update and maintain subscription of services provided by Toyota and it's partners.    Environment: Informatica power center, Oracle 12c, JIRA, Toad. Technology Analyst TTI INC February 2017 to June 2017 Fortworth, Texas Feb 2017 - Jun 2017  Project: Legacy Modernization  Software: Oracle PlSql 12c, Exadata, UNIX, JAVA, Agile, GIT, SQL Developer/loader, OLAP  Role Played: Oracle PlSql Developer  Designation: Technology Analyst    Project overview:  This project is to modernize legacy system of TTI inc. TTI inc. is an electronic component distributor, who has their system in mainframe. We are working on changing current system to be more user friendly and reliable. All the business logic here are being implemented in PlSql and JAVA. I'm responsible for EDI track. Here we work in Agile process.    Responsibilities:  • Working as a developer.  • Working on writing plsql packages for different EDI transactions.  • Responsible for testing all our DB code in 12c.  • Worked in Exadata environment.  • Responsible to maintain PDBs specific to EDI.  • Responsible for client interaction and helping them with understanding our changes.  • Responsible for gathering requirements and explaining it to Indian team member.  • Responsible for closely working with client SMEs to understand and develop.  • Responsible for maintaining code changes in GIT with our own EDI branch.  • Responsible to maintain agile scrum for EDI.    Environment: Agile, Oracle PlSql 12c, UNIX, JAVA, CONTROL-M, GIT, Sql developer, Eclipse, Mainframe, beyond compare, Red-gate Technology Analyst Texas Instruments - Plano, TX July 2015 to January 2017 Plano, Texas Jul 2015 - Jan 2017 Project: DM(Datawarehousing)  Software: Oracle PlSql 11g, 12c, Apex 5.0, UNIX, Shareplex, GIT, TOAD, OLAP, Exadata, Informatica 9.6, ERWIN, Control-M  Role Played: Oracle PlSql Developer  Designation: Technology Analyst    Project overview:  This project is to work with Data management team of Texas Instrument. Here we work on tickets logged by users for changes in database and to monitor all the jobs. We receive small application enhancement requirements which we work as small projects. Also we as a team are responsible for maintaining DBapplications, jobs and passwords of dbs which come under DM umbrella. Recently we have started migrating from 11g to 12c where I'm involved.    Responsibilities:  • Working as a Oracle PlSqldeveloper and Onsite coordinator.  • Responsible for assigning and explaining tickets to India team.  • Working on tickets to add new database changes as requested.  • Maintaining, and modifying Apex applications.  • Developing interactive reports using APEX.  • Responsible for testing all our DB code in 12c after upgrade.  • Worked in Exadata environment.  • Writing PL/SQL procedure/packages/functions to put the processed data into final tables.  • Monitoring jobs and recovering if it gets abondend.  • Involved in production support by efficiently debugging the production issues.  • Created Views, Dynamic SQLs.  • Developed tables with partitions and created indexes, constraints, triggers, synonyms, database links, table spaces, roles etc in different schemas.  • Involved in Extraction and loading of data in between the schemas using oracle Export and Import utilities.  • For ETL, we are using Shareplex, informatica and oracle plsql.  • For informatica mappings most of the data come inform of flat files/ xml files and for some mysql application also.  • Work on maintaining and enhancing ETL mappings as per requirement.  • Responsible for writing new mappings for app enhancements and rule changes.  • Responsible for data modeling using ERWIN data modeler.  • Worked with DM team on data designing.  • Apex is being used for small reporting applications.  • In Apex we have created Forms and reports.  • Reports included charts like bar, pie, interactive, Map charts.  • Created forms with dialogue pages.  • All the applications were SSO login enabled.  • Used Texas Instruments UI framework for all apex applications which was based on HTML5, CSS 3 and javascript.  • Created scripts to load the data into staging tables from other database using DB links.  • Created stored procedures with cursors to load the data from staging to analysis tables.  • Created various complex queries with joins, sub-queries, and nested queries in SQL queries.  • Created reusable procedure code to gather incremental stats of tables after data gets loaded.  • Created reusable procedure to handle work table creation and populate partitioned tables using exchange partition for partitioned tables.  • Responsible for maintaining data-replication process using shareplex.  • Used OBIEE for BI pupose.    Environment: Oracle PL/SQL 11g, Unix, Toad 10.6, Windows 7, Putty, Control-M, Shareplex, Apex 5.0, CSS, HTML, JQuery, Java Script Technology Analyst Texas Instruments - Plano, TX January 2015 to June 2015 Plano, Texas Jan 2015 - Jun 2015  Project: CIR-Reporting  Software: Oracle PlSql 11g, JAVA Struts, Unix, GIT, TOAD, OLAP, Control-M  Role Played: Oracle PlSql Developer  Designation: Technology Analyst    Project overview:  This project was to get data from one database and load it into SMDW data base which is being used for reporting purpose. Reports are being created and maintained in CIR-Reporting website which was developed in JAVA - Struts framework.    Responsibilities:  • Working as a developer and Onsite coordinator.  • Responsible for gathering requirements and send it across to team.  • Responsible for creating requirement document and test documents.  • Responsible for documenting application changes for transitioning it to support.  • Writing PL/SQL procedure/packages/functions to put the processed data into final tables.  • Created various complex queries with joins, sub-queries, and nested queries in SQL queries.  • Developed tables with partitions and created indexes, constraints, triggers, synonyms, database links, table spaces, roles etc in different schemas.  • Creating Unix jobs to run the loaders procedures.  • Created various complex queries with joins, sub-queries, and nested queries in SQL queries.  • Responsible for testing the application thoroughly with new changes.  • Responsible for keeping track of project using project planner.    Environment: Oracle PL/SQL 11g, JAVA-Struts, Unix, Toad 10.6, Windows-7, MS-Office word, Excel, PPT, Project Planner. Technology Analyst Cummins - New York, NY October 2013 to December 2014 Melville, New York Oct 2013 - Dec 2014  Project: Goal Tree phase-2  Software: Oracle Apex 4.2, PlSql, TOAD, CVS, OLTP, Appworx  Role Played: Sr Apex Developer  Designation: Technology Analyst    Project overview:  Cummins is designer and manufacturer of power generation equipment, power systems, gasoline engines, custom power supplies. Cummins has several of Apex applications having project and its details for its different departments, to have all the reports and project workflows. This application consists of Project-Application-Workflow structure. This application has the details level information about a project.    Responsibilities:  • Added Cummins authorization schema removing the custom authorization schema previously used.  • Created DB jobs for auto email notification to managers of workflow, project and applications whenever there is any update.  • Added additional role based security features using Ajax call.  • Used JavaScript to call application level program.  • Added URL encryption to protect it from tampering.  • Updated security of the application with JavaScript, Ajax call to procedure.  • Working as a developer and Onsite co-ordinator.  • Responsible for testing the application thoroughly with new changes.  • Responsible for creating requirement documents and test cases.  • Responsible for transitioning it to support.  • Responsible for updating Project Planner to keep track of the project.  • Worked on Bulk Collection and PL/SQL table for getting optimal performance.  • Created Views, Dynamic SQLs, and V-arrays.    Environment: Oracle Apex 4.2, Oracle 11g, JQuery, JavaScript, CSS 3.0, HTML 5, Toad 10.6, Windows-7, MS-Office word, Excel, PPT. Technology Analyst Cummins - New York, NY September 2013 to October 2013 Melville, New York Sep 2013 - Oct 2013  Project: SPF (Seibel Practice Foundation)  Software: Oracle Apex 4.2, PlSql, TOAD, CVS, OLTP, Appworx, Oracle portal 11g  Role Played: Sr Apex/PlSql Developer  Designation: Technology Analyst    Project overview:  Cummins is designer and manufacturer of power generation equipment, power systems, gasoline engines, custom power supplies. Cummins has several of Apex applications having project and its details for its different departments, to have all the reports and project workflows. SPF is a small web based application which keeps details of all the workflows worked on by the IT team of Cummins Inc.    Responsibilities:  • Designed database for this application and created er diagram using Visio.  • Responsible for writing packages, procedures and functions needed for this application.  • Created the application with latest Cummins UX framework and Hashing technology to encrypt user data.  • Added user level security structure using Ajax for client side.  • Used css3 and html5 for using the UX framework and creating a custom theme.  • Developed the application from scratch along with the user, as per their requirement.  • Responsible for adding the entire role related security.  • Was the only resource working on this application and completed the whole project within a month going through all the phases.  • Responsible for unit testing.  • Co-ordinated with client for this application.  • Responsible for creating application documents.  • Responsible for transitioning it to support team.    Environment: Oracle Apex 4.2, Oracle 11g, JQuery, JavaScript, CSS 3.0, HTML 5, Toad 10.6, Windows-7, MS-Office word, Excel, PPT. Technology Analyst Cummins, USA June 2013 to September 2013 June 2013 - Sep 2013  Project: Goal Tree phase - 1  Team: Team consists of 3 members in India  Software: Oracle Apex 4.2, PlSql, TOAD, CVS, OLTP, Appworx  Role Played: Sr Apex/PlSql Developer  Designation: Technology Analyst    Project overview:  Cummins is designer and manufacturer of power generation equipment, power systems, gasoline engines, custom power supplies. Cummins has several of Apex applications having project and its details for it's different departments, to have all the reports and project workflows. This application consists of Project-Application structure. This application has the details level information about a project.    Responsibilities:  • Designed database for this application and created er diagram using Visio.  • Responsible for writing packages, procedures and functions needed for this application.  • Created the application as per user requirement.  • Created project, application and work-flow report pages with forms.  • Added custom authorization scheme for the application.  • My responsibility was to gather requirements.  • Responsible for custom authorization scheme.  • Worked as a senior developer.  • Responsible for testing the application thoroughly.  • Writing PL/SQL procedure/packages/functions to put the processed data into final tables.  • Created various complex queries with joins, sub-queries, and nested queries in SQL queries.  • Co-ordinated with client for this application.  • Responsible for creating application documents.  • Responsible for transitioning it to support team.    Environment: Oracle Apex 4.2, Oracle 11g, JQuery, JavaScript, CSS, HTML, Toad 10.6, Windows-7, MS-Office word, Excel, PPT. Technology Analyst Cummins, USA November 2012 to June 2013 Nov 2012 - June 2013  Project: JVK Rewrite  Team: Team consists of 9 members in India  Software: Oracle 9i/PL-SQL, Oracle 11g/PL-SQL, JAVA Struts 1, UNIX, Appworx, TOAD, CVS, OLTP  Role Played: Oracle PlSql Developer  Designation: Technology Analyst    Project overview:  This project was to upgrade DB from 9i to 11g and addition of new features like automation of pricing different methods, addition of additional new reports for more details regarding the parts.    Responsibilities:  • Worked with DB team for upgrading database from oracle 9i to 11g.  • Did Impact testing for DB up-gradation  • Wrote procedures for automating pricing of parts, by taking quote details, tax details, shipping details from other clusters of Cummins database through DB link.  • Created MV for getting data through DB link and use it for pricing calculation.  • Wrote function to notify pricing related managers through email, when there is a change in pricing or new pricing is done for a part.  • My responsibility was to lead the project.  • Responsible for testing the impact of DB up-gradation.  • Responsible for writing the procedures to automate the pricing processes.  • Responsible for creating new batch jobs to update related managers regarding pricing changes by automated emails.  • Responsible for through testing of application and impacts due to new changes.  • Responsible for Infant care support and post production support.  Environment: JAVA Struts 1, Oracle 9i PL/SQL, Oracle 11g PL/SQL, UNIX, Appworx, Windows-7, MS-Office word, Excel, PPT. Technology Analyst Cummins, USA June 2012 to November 2012 June 2012 - Nov 2012  Project: WAB design  Team: Team consists of 3 members in India  Software: Oracle PlSql, Apex, Html 5, css3, Twitter Bootstrap, JQuery, TOAD, CVS, OLTP, Appworx  Role Played: Oracle PlSql Developer  Designation: Technology Analyst    Project overview:  This project was to create responsive UI for WAB application using twitter bootstrap framework. We created the UI and for reusing it in all Cummins web based applications.    Responsibilities:  • Used bootstrap framework 2.3.2 to create responsive design prototype.  • Used bootstrap framework 3 to create a responsive design sample page to be used as template for all the web-based applications.  • Worked with design team to have different size of logo, header text, footer text search bar and tabs for different device length.  • As per framework divided all the devices into four structure, Large (?1200px), Medium (?992px), Small (?768px) and Extra Small (<768px).  • My responsibility was to design and add responsive features using twitter bootstrap.  • Responsible for header, footer and table body design.  • Responsible for testing the design for all devices, i.e. mobile, tablets and desktops.  • Learnt bootstrap 2.3.2 and 3.  • Did knowledge transfer for this application.  Environment: JAVA Struts 1, Oracle 9i PL/SQL, Oracle 11g PL/SQL, UNIX, Appworx, Windows-7, MS-Office word, Excel, PPT. Technology Analyst Cummins, USA March 2012 to May 2012 Mar 2012 - May 2012  Project: JVK  Team: Team consists of 4 members in India  Software: Oracle 9i/PL-SQL, UNIX and Appworx, JAVA Struts 1, TOAD, CVS, OLTP  Role Played: Oracle PlSql Developer  Designation: Technology Analyst    Project overview:  JVK is an application which deals with all the part details of Cummins engines, its price related details which are calculated by gathering details from other related application. It also has all the finance related reports. In this project we changed the primary key of supplier table from supplier no to supplier site id. These changes had effect on all the reports and financial calculations. Changes for impacted tables procedures and functions were the main changes which made the project difficult to execute. Impact analysis of this project was for a month. I played lead role in this project.    Responsibilities:  • Identified a new primary key and added it to the supplier table of this application.  • Identified all the impacted tables, screens and packages. Made changes to all tables and packages.  • Implemented latest UX framework.  • I took responsibility of leading the team in the second week of build phase, as team lead left the project.  • Responsible for making changes in the database, packages, procedures.  • Responsible for creating UNIX scripts for Appworx job to automate finance related process.  • Responsible for doing unit testing of DB changes and backend jobs.  • Writing PL/SQL procedure/packages/functions to put the processed data into final tables.  • Created various complex queries with joins, sub-queries, and nested queries in SQL queries.  • Co-ordinated with client for this application.  • Responsible for creating application documents.  • Responsible for transitioning it to support team.  Environment: JAVA Struts 1, Oracle 9i PL/SQL, UNIX and Appworx, Windows-7, MS-Office word, Excel, PPT. Senior Software Engineer Cummins, USA September 2011 to March 2012 Sep 2011 - Mar 2012  Project: ADSC Enhancement  Team: Team consists of 4 members in India  Software: Oracle Apex 4.2, PlSql, TOAD, CVS, OLTP, Appworx  Role Played: Oracle APEX/PlSql Developer  Designation: Senior Software Engineer    Project overview:  ADSC is a web based application for our customer Cummins Inc. where all the data related to projects which are completed, are in progress or are going to be done in future are recorded. Its health, project related application details, project data like sow, financial details are kept. Project status dashboard report, appreciation details received in a project are also recorded and kept. All the information is displayed according to User role. Also roles defined for making amendments in project related details. This application is used across the vendors for their project related data and no other vendor can check project details of another vendor.    Responsibilities:  • Created new CSS files to change header and footer section to incorporate new changes as per new UX guidelines.  • Responsible for writing procedures, which were called by Ajax functions and another application named WISC where application for new project are processed, so that all the data will be automatically updated.  • Added Ajax call to check if one record is being edited or not using JavaScript, for client side validation. This helped to lock a file while one person is updating a record.  • Added timeout/extend session feature using JavaScript, to help a user while editing a record and reminding them to session expire timings.  • Added role based security feature using Ajax call through JavaScript. Introduced a new table structure and an application level function to check type of user and provide privilege according to the role the user is mapped. Before this feature is added every end user now has access to application with role based information.  • Added a new feature to split a project into smaller engagements.  • Created a dashboard having all details of a project with graphical representation.  • Responsible for addition of dashboard features and adding additional security features using JavaScript and Ajax calls of procedures.  • Responsible making UI changes using css and html.  • Responsible for unit testing.  Environment: Oracle Apex 4.2, Oracle 11g, JQuery, JavaScript, CSS 3.0, HTML 5, Toad 10.6, Windows-7, MS-Office word, Excel, PPT. Designer, Web-I and Desk-I Atos Origin, UK November 2009 to September 2011 Nov 2009 - Sep 2011  Project: KIWI(Datawarehousing)  Team: Team consists of 15 members in India  Software: Business Object XI (Designer, Web-I and Desk-I), Crystal report, Sql Server 10/10.5, Oracle Apex 3.1, USD 6.0, Informatica, CVS, Oracle Forms, reports, OLAP  Role Played: DW Developer  Designation: Technical Executive Support    Project overview:  KIWI (Key Indicator Warehouse for Infrastructure) project is to industrialize the reporting process to ensure quality, reliability and consistency of data. To implement a powerful platform of Business Intelligence, scalable and update on standardized and cleaned data. It also involves keeping the detail and historical data for analysis and improving performance and user request.  This project is based on Business Object xi which is a Business Intelligence tool, Crystal reports XI and Oracle Apex. We are now have migrated to BOXI R3 and working with it for last 1 year.    Responsibilities:  • Created simple and dashboard reports using web-i, crystal reports, Xcelsius.  • Created universe using universe designer.  • Worked on testing and resolving loops, chasm trap and fan trap issues while designing universe.  • We used star schema for designing our universes.  • Responsible for modification and testing of universes in business objects.  • Responsible for developing reports using crystal report.  • Responsible for developing reports using Web-I.  • Worked in Informatica for ETL.  • Got training for migrating data from different databases to Oracle using SSIS technology.  • Responsible For Writing Functional Specification.  • SPOC of Web-I reporting team, 2 team member works under me.  • Responsible for modifying and developing universes.  • Responsible for testing universes and reports in UAT environment.    Environment: Business Object XI (Designer, Web-I and Desk-I), Crystal report, SSIS, Sql Server 10/10.5, Oracle Apex 3.1, USD 6.0. Software Engineer Atos Origin India May 2008 to October 2009 May 2008 - Oct 2009  Project: FZONE  Software: Eclipse, Visual Source Safe, Oracle 9i/PL-SQL, Toad, Jboss, Struts, Hibernate, OLTP.  Role Played: Developer  Designation: Software Engineer    Project overview:  Fzone is an internal project which was developed to maintain all the data of an employee (Both Personal & Professional), which can be easily accessible by his or her managers. It has the feature of automated mail generation for different events and meetings. It is developed using Struts and Hibernate technology.    Responsibilities:  • Worked on Designing DB structure for the application and using VISIO created ER diagram.  • Worked on procedures, functions and packages, used for fetching data, updating DB tables and sending mails.  • Worked on DB job scheduling for automation emails on birthdays and anniversaries.  • Responsible for coding for database connectivity and retrieve of data.  • Writing PL/SQL procedure/packages/functions to put the processed data into final tables.  • Created various complex queries with joins, sub-queries, and nested queries in SQL queries.  • Responsible For Writing Functional Specification.  • Responsible For Unit Testing.  • Responsible for transitioning it to support and creating support document.    Environment: Eclipse, Visual Source Safe, Oracle 9i PL/SQL, Toad, JBoss, Struts, Hibernate.    Graduate Course Work: Developer National Institute of Science and Technology July 2007 to April 2008 India July 2007 - April 2008  Project: Flash Mp3 Player  Team: Independent  Software Macromedia Flash 8.0, Eclipse, Java 1.5.0., XML  Role Played: Developer    Project overview:  It is a basic Mp3 player with all essential features like plays, pause etc. which plays only ".mp3" files. Have designed it using Flash8, all the operations have been coded in action script and file handling part is done in servlet and JSP.    Responsibilities:  • Designed MP3 player layout using flash 8 and JAVA Applet.  • Used action script 2 for all button controls of mp3 player  • Used xml for creating and saving song playlist. XML file saves the path information of selected songs.  • The xml file is read and updated by file I/o function of java Education technology National Institute of Science and Technology 2008 Skills Apex (5 years), Appworx (3 years), Crystal report (1 year), Cvs (5 years), database (4 years), databases (1 year), Erwin (1 year), Excel (3 years), Git (3 years), Informatica (5 years), Ms sql server (1 year), mysql (1 year), Oracle (10+ years), Oracle forms (1 year), Ppt (3 years), scheduling (1 year), Sql (8 years), Sql server (1 year), testing (9 years), Unix (6 years), Javascript, jQuery Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/rupak-das-2044b213/ Certifications/Licenses AWS Solution Architect Associate March 2019 to March 2022