Senior Web Application UI Designer, Front and Back End Developer Senior Web Application UI Designer, Front and Back End <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Web Application UI Designer, Front and Back End Developer - Phillips Self-motivated Web UI Development professional with 8 Plus years of experience looking for programming work to utilize unmatched web and application development abilities and experience. Work Experience Senior Web Application UI Designer, Front and Back End Developer Phillips - Boston, MA October 2016 to Present PHILIPS is a Dutch technology company headquartered in Amsterdam with primary divisions focused in the areas of electronics, healthcare and lighting. It was founded in Eindhoven in 1891, by Gerard Philips and his father Frederik. It is one of the largest electronics companies in the world and employs around 105,000 people across more than 60 countries.  • Closely worked with business system analyst to understand the requirements to ensure that right set of UI modules are being built.  • Worked with designers to understand and redesign the Package Customization and Service Locator Modules using HTML 5, CSS3 and jQuery.  • Created HTML pages from the PDF's given by the UX and used AngularJS2/TypeScript to retrieve data from the rest services.  • Used AngularJS2 for developing applications from the front end.  • Worked on Child components and parent component creations, with different interfaces, classes, constructors and other oops concepts of Type script.  • Used advanced level of TypeScript JQUERY, AJAX, JavaScript, CSS and pure CSS layouts.  • Have good experience on developing SPA and jQuery based web developing under Typescript.  • Used AngularJS to develop client-side applications using JavaScript in a clean Model View Controller (MVC) way.  • Created user interface using AngularJS and Bootstrap.  • Used Bootstrap library to quickly build project UI's and used AngularJS2 framework to associate HTML elements to models  • Used jQuery core library functions for the logical implementation part at client side for all the applications.  • Created some widgets using Kendo UI and successfully integrated Kendo UI components, Node.js and module.js with polymer.  • Worked on responsiveness of the application and explored the fixed width and fluid layouts using Bootstrap.  • Implemented generating the verification hash code using crypto package on Node.JS and Added user validations and user permissions by using the Node.js.  • Used date-format and moment packages in Node.JS to save the timestamp in database converting into GMT.  • Developed different page layouts and leveraged Bootstrap grids, pagination, charts, and form controls.  • Used CSS and Bootstrap for styling the HTML elements.  • Worked on various breakpoints within the application for optimum layout and functionalities on mobile, tablets and desktops.  • Used jQuery plug-ins for Widgets, Menus, User Interface and Forms.  • Involved in developing HTML and JavaScript for client-side presentation and data validation on the client side within the forms.  • Maintain, enhance, and recommend solutions that best suit business and technology needs from a UI standpoint.  • Debug the application using Firebug to traverse the documents and manipulate the Nodes using DOM and DOM Functions.  • Wrote application level code to perform client-side validation using jQuery and JavaScript.    Environment: HTML5, CSS, AngularJS2, Bootstrap, Kendo-UI JavaScript, Node.js jQuery, Dreamweaver CS5, AJAX, JSON, ECLIPSE, MS Office, MongoDB and SVN.  Staples Boston, MA Senior Web Application UI Designer, Front and Back End Developer Staples, Inc - Framingham, MA January 2015 to September 2016 Staples also does business extensively with enterprises in the United States and Canada, and as Staples Business Advantage.  Responsibilities:  • Designed the front-end applications, user interactive (UI) web pages using web technologies like HTML, XHTML, and CSS.  • Web designing & development using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, React JS and Ajax.  • Developed React JS pages, Web services calls and AJAX calls for the application  • Used React JS in development of the web application to bind the data/model that is being retrieved from a database through services provided in a controller to the view using scope.  • Used React JS in components like JSX, creating React components, Virtual  • Participated with end users and business analyst to understand the business requirements.  • CSS styles were developed in order to preserve the uniformity of all the screens throughout the application and positioning of screen objects.  • Responsible for design and development of web pages from mock-ups (PSD).  • Worked on Front end by using JavaScript.  • Developed user interface by using the React JS, Flux for SPA development.  • Implemented client-side Interface using React JS.  • Worked in using React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations and Flux concept.  • Build React components and stand-alone functions to be added to any future pages.  • Responsible for developing a front-end application using React JS and FLUX architecture for internal teams' productivity use.  • Experienced in React JS and working with React Flux architecture.  • Working with React Router for developing Single Page Applications SPAs.  • Worked on responsive design and developed a single ISOMORPHIC responsive website that could be served to desktop, Tablets and mobile users using React.js.  • Implemented the Drag and Drop functionality using React-Dragable  • Wrote services to store and retrieve user data from the Mongo DB for the application on devices.  • Used Bugzilla and Red mine as the bug tracking system to track and maintain the history of bugs/issues on everyday basis.  • Involved in daily SCRUM meetings to keep track of the project status. Extensively used Git for version controlling and regularly pushed the code to GitHub.  • Made the application responsive using Bootstrap and CSS Media Queries.  • Responsible for checking cross browser compatibility issues and hence worked on different browsers like Google chrome, Internet explorer, Firefox and safari.  • Involved in implementing Queries to the backend MongoDB database using Http service to fetch JSON contract.  • Experienced in implementing CRUD database operation on such as MongoDB.  • Worked with Bit Bucket for recording the progress and later for version control.  • Used Jasmine and Karma as end to end testing tools for debugging and software quality insurance.  • Active team player, helped in fixing bugs and carried out troubleshooting.  • Produced semantically appropriate, standards compliant markup and produced Rich User Interfaces. Used all the advanced Photoshop features to create appealing visual web interfaces.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, React JS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, jQuery, JSON, REST APIs, Angular JS, Git, MongoDB, Jasmine, Karma, Sublime.  Wayfair, Great Boston Area, MA Senior Web Application UI Designer, Front and Back End Developer Wayfair, Inc - Boston, MA October 2013 to December 2014 Wayfair has offices and warehouses throughout the United States as well as in Canada, Germany, Ireland, and the United Kingdom.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in all phases of project from analysis and requirement phase to delivering the project.  • Analyzed the requirements and formulated the project scope.  • Developed the functionalities using Agile Scrum methodology.  • Performed client-side validations & designed custom directives using AngularJS, following MVC architecture.  • Designed and developed the user interface using HTML, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX and CSS.  • Rendered the data from the back end using AJAX and jQuery.  • Developed multiple views in a single page application using AngularJS.  • Performed unit testing of the Angular JS application code using Jasmine.  • Worked with Git/GitHub as a version control tool.  • Maintained Cross browser compatibility using Bootstrap.  • Invoked Angular http calls to process JSON data, such as API details and description for rendering them on UI pages in the corresponding modules.  • Worked with node.js on server-side for designing this dynamic web application.  • Configured NoSQL database - DynamoDB for providing single-digit millisecond latency, fast DB service for application.  • Performed minification of the source code using Grunt.  • Involved in fixing the bugs in different browsers and any possible compatibility issues.  • Configured and managed source code using Git.  • Integrated Docker container based test infrastructure with Jenkins CI test flow to setup build environment with Git using web hooks and slave machines.  • Worked with the build and deploy tool, Maven, and integrated it with Jenkin build.  • Customized EC2 instances using AWS SDKs for application deployment and authored security policies for providing access via AWS IAM.  • Created AWS security group(s) and configured the trust relations in policy to make AWS resources accessible.  • Created custom VPC to build highly reliable, available, resilient and scalable infrastructure for the application.  • Enabled EC2 instances in a private subnet to connect to internet using NAT gateway.  • Automated daily manual tasks by running BASH scripts that reports on a user defined frequency about versatile issues on Linux-based servers.  • Implemented Python scripts to automate various system tasks, OS patches for dev environments and deployment of applications for testing and production environments.  • Utilized Chef for managing the configuration of the application.  • Created various jobs in Jenkins for continuous Integration and Deployment(CI/CD).    Environment:  HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, AngularJS, PHP, Bootstrap, Jasmine, MVC, AWS, SDKs, EC2, IAM, VPC, NAT gateway, python, BASH scripting, CI/CD, Git/GitHub, Chef, Jenkins, Maven, Grunt, Docker, API, Agile methodology, Linux. Senior Web Application UI Designer, Front and Back End Developer Becton Dickinson and Co - Washington, DC January 2012 to September 2013 Becton, Dickinson and Company (BD) is an American medical technology company that manufactures and sells medical devices, instrument systems, and reagents. Founded in 1897 and headquartered in Franklin Lakes, New Jersey, BD employs nearly 50,000 people in more than 50 countries throughout the world. In fiscal year ending September 30, 2009, 60% of BD sales were generated from non-U.S. markets  • Involved in designing and developing the UI using HTML5, CSS3, AngularJS, JavaScript.  • Responsible for designing and creating RESTful API's.  • Used D3.js (Data Driven Document) for Visualizing the data.  • Created modular application structure using AngularJS framework, HTML5 and CSS3.  • Implemented Internet Applications using jQuery, AJAX call and JSON to retrieve data from the server.  • Used Node.js for server side encrypting with express.js to write callback functions for the Restful API.  • Worked with Express JS for navigating to different pages in the application.  • Performed cross browser unit testing of Node.js application using Karma.  • Developed JavaScript code to send the AJAX request to the server and handled the responses.  • Assisted my team in migrating the existing application to AWS cloud and contributed in resolving challenges throughout the process, i.e. from initial phase (cloud assessment phase) to final phase (optimization phase).  • Bootstrapped dependencies through bower, npm for including required software in application initialization.  • Maneuvered existing CFT (Cloud formation template), EBS (Elastic Bean Stalk) to structure the application environment.  • Customized the isolated network by creating AWS VPC for the application and created stacks using cloud formation templates with JSON/YAML format to create infrastructure as a code.  • Worked on creating server-less Micro services by integrating AWS Lambda, S3/Cloud watch/API Gateway.  • Managed, Monitored, secured API's using API Gateway Authored code for AWS lambda function in python, node.js.  • Integrated the changes during development with Git.  • Worked in a Linux environment(CentOS) with apache tomcat as server on Elastic Beanstalk, configured Auto Scaling groups and ELB for managing load on application.  • Deployed application on AWS EC2 instances and also configured the storage on S3 buckets.  • Created various IAM roles, users and groups and coded the policies using Identity and Access Management.  • Worked with Amazon Cognito to add sign-up, sign-in features and manage permissions for this application.  • Created python scripts for automating various system tasks in production and testing environments.  • Configured cloud watch to monitor real-time granular metrics of all the AWS services and configured individual dashboards for each resource agents.  • For tracking failures on timely manner integrated the Cloud Watch Alarms with SNS Metrics.  • Implemented custom error responses for the application using Cloud Front.  • Configured Mongo DB instance as database server.  • Authenticated login using Web Identity federation to validate through third party login.  • Managed source code using Git and resolved code merging conflicts in collaboration with application developers.  • Maintained continuous integration and continuous Deployment for this fast-paced robust application Environment using AWS Code Deploy and followed Agile scrum Project.    Environment:  HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, REST, Maven, Ant, Jenkins, Git/GitHub, Agile methodologies, Linux, AWS, EC2, S3, SNS, SQS, Mongo DB, ELB, Cloud Front, IAM, Web Identity Federation, Chef, Jenkins, cloud watch, code deploy, VPC, Auto-scaling, Lambda. Java Web Developer Soft Projex India Ltd - Hyderabad, ANDHRA PRADESH, IN January 2010 to December 2011 Project Description: DDA Application This application is an intranet based Financial Application used by the bank personnel in banking centers to facilitate the day-to-day financial transactions within the bank. The application primarily originates DDA products, small business loans, and auto loans. The application is used to promote sales and for maintenance of customer and business data. The application is built using J2EE technologies and Struts framework on IBM Web Sphere Studio application developer (WSAD 5) and deployed on Web sphere server.  Responsibilities:  • Played a key role in the design and development of application using J2EE technologies.  • Played a central role in developing Use Case, Sequence and Class diagrams during design phase using Rational Rose.  • Developed server components using EJB's. As part of it, implemented Stateless session beans.  • Worked as a developer and member of the development team of a project.  • Involved in creation of requirements and high-level design specification for improvements implementation with client's business team.  • Development of a split billing system - core java, collections, spring, hibernate, MySQL.  • Designed and Implemented enhancements feature in team.  • Developed the UI panels using JSF, HTML, XHTML, JAVASCRIPT, CSS, DOJO and jQuery.  • Developed ANT scripts to build and deploy the application in the JBOSS Application Server.  • Developed web service to handle insertion and retrieval of information supporting services framework Apache Axis  • Involved in writing SOAP and HTTP based WSDL using XML Schema.  • Took the initiative to become a subject matter expert in several areas, including J2EE technologies, software security, performance re-engineering, build deployment process, Ant tool, and performance profilers.  • Designed and developed framework in core java Exception and Error frameworks, Logging mechanism, Audit Logging, Common Layers like Action, DAO.  • Involved in application performance tuning, investigated Memory leaks, CPU and Memory profiling, tuning of production server to provide maximum productivity and minimum overhead.  • Developed code components based on design patterns such as business delegate, session façade, data access object, and singleton.  • Identified the security loop holes, computer security vulnerability like cross site scripting that enables malicious attackers to inject client-side script into web pages viewed by other users.  • Automated the build deployment and developed the continuous build deployment and test environment.    Environment:  Java J2EE, JDK1.5, Struts, Hibernate, Flex, Web Service, HTML, CSS, JAVASCRIPT, Multithreading WSDL, JSP, Ajax, Apache Axis JDBC, MySQL, Oracle, Ant, JBoss 4.X GA, JUnit, Enterprise Architect, SVN, Bugzilla. Python Developer 3I Infotech Ltd - IN January 2008 to December 2009 Project:  Four Soft IT Solutions provides a wide variety of value-added integrated IT solutions to customers across a multitude of markets and geographies. The skilled consultants and professionals help all the customers achieve and exceed their business goals by designing, deploying, and implementing optimized and scalable full-scale IT solutions that continuously exceed their expectations.  Responsibilities:  • Handled all aspects of the web application including maintaining, testing, debugging, deploying and printing  • Worked on the project from gathering requirements to developing the entire application.  • Worked on Anaconda Python Environment.  • Created, activated and programmed in Anaconda environment. Wrote programs for performance calculations using NumPy and SQLAlchemy.  • Wrote python routines to log into the websites and fetch data for selected options.  • Used python modules of urllib, urllib2, Requests for web crawling.  • Used with other packages such as Beautiful Soup for data parsing.  • Deployed the project into Heroku using Django and GIT version control system.  • Design and build a text classification application using different text classification models.  • Used Jira for defect tracking and project management. Links https://linkedin.com/in/venkatdeveloper http://venkat-portfolio.firebaseapp.com Additional Information Skills    • Over8 plus years of experience in Application and Web development with emphasis on HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, SASS/LESS, JavaScript, AngularJS/ AngularJs2, React.JsV15.6.0, Typescript, MongoDB, Express, Node.js, Bootstrap 3, jQuery, Drupal, jQuery UI, DOM, DHTML, XHTML, AJAX, SQL, MySQL, Java, Python, Django, Flask and PHP.  • Background development of Hybrid Mobile App using Angular UI framework from scratch using TypeScript and AngularJs2.  • Experience with Angular 2 development using Typescript  • Strong experience in MVVM and MVC using, Angular.js  • Background in MongoDB, Express, ReactV15.6.1 AngularJS/JS2, Node.js (MEAN) to develop the Mean Stack web application.  • Experience in creating custom, general use modules and components which extend the elements and modules of core Node.JSv8.0.0.  • Thorough understanding of how Node.js works in the backend.  • Strong background in working with Amazon Web Services to Build and Deploy highly available and scalable infrastructure by using various AWS resources  • Professional-level ability of creating Templates, Mockups and Prototypes, Web Interfaces, Layouts and Flow of Future Pages  • Extensive experience on CSS preprocessors SASS and LESS.  • Experience in SOA and developing and integrating SOAP and RESTful web services with the front end using Ajax Calls  • Hands-on experience in Responsive Web Design (RWD).  • Experience in full Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) that includes Analyzing, Designing, Coding, Testing, Implementation and Production Support including RDC.  • Broad understanding and experience of using package managing tools BOWER and NPM and scaffolding tool YEOMAN.  • Experience in project build tools GRUNT and GULP.  • Extensive experience in designing and building public facing websites.  • Extensive experience in using Photoshop, Illustrator, Adobe Flash, Dream Weaver, MS Visio, OmniGraffle and Microsoft FrontPage.  • Experience in designing and presenting multiple concepts and iterations around user interaction models, workflows, wireframes, screen flows, mockups and prototypes.  • Experience in Quality Assurance, Unit Testing, Acceptance Testing, and Integration Testing.  • Experience in the use of various relational databases like Oracle, DB2, SQL Server and NoSQL databases like MongoDB, Cassandra.  • Expert in using JSON (JavaScript Object Notation), a lightweight data-interchange format to build collection of name/value pairs and ordered list of values.  • Experience working with Twitter Bootstrap 3 and 4 Framework, and JavaScript.  • Experience in resolving Cross Browser compatibility issues (IE 7 & 8, chrome, Firefox and Safari).  • Ability to work independently and in teams while also managing and handling multiple projects.  • Ability to work in a Linux / Open Source environment  • Expert(s) in AWS who can help to review and provide suggestions on existing AWS deployments  • Used gZip compression tool to compress data when using web service restful calls to send the data to the server.  • Strong problem-solving, organizing, communication and planning skills with ability to work in team environment.  • Extensively used GIT and SVN as a version control.    Technical Skills    UI Web Technologies.  HTML/HTML5, PHP, WordPress, CSS/CSS3, Bootstrap, AJAX, XML, Django, Flask, Nun jacks, JSON, UI Concept Modelling/Wire Framing, LESS, SASS/SCSS., Heroku.    Scripting Languages JavaScript, jQuery, AngularvJS1.5X/2, ReactJs.v15.6.1, Backbone.Js. Express.Js Node.js, widgets and plugins  IDE's Eclipse, Sublime Text, WebStorm, Brackets  Version Control SVN, GIT  Web/App Servers AWS, Tomcat, WebLogic, WebSphere, JBoss, Scala, Apache  RDBMS SQL Server 08/12, Oracle 9i/10g/11g, DB2, MongoDB, Cassandra    Operating Systems Windows, Mac, UNIX  Methodologies Agile, Waterfall  Others Software Skills Java, Python, J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, Web Services (SOAP and REST), JUnit, GZip