Self Employed Self Employed Motivated, technology/sales savy, and fast learner. Las Vegas, NV Knowledge in multiple programming languages and able to program in them. Accomplished sales professional (30 million dollars in  sales within the first 5 years) with a wide-range of technical knowledge and background. Can quickly adapt and learn new  technologies. Ability to combine technical understanding with sales skills for product demonstrations, client needs assessments, and  the development of technical specifications. Capable of explaining complex and technical concepts to a non-technical audience.  Passionate about artificial intelligence and using machine learning to anticipate future events. Currently taking courses at  udacity.com to update my knowledge. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Self Employed Self Employed - Las Vegas, NV January 2016 to Present Accomplishments  • Created a simple weather app for android using openweather API.  • Currently developing other apps for fun.    Skills Used  Android, Java, Github Real Estate Broker/Salesman (REALTOR) Majestic Properties/Self - Las Vegas, NV June 2005 to Present • Sold 100+ homes in my first 5 years estimating about 30-million dollars in sales.  • Coordinated and supervised procedures for all real estate transactions including assistance in loans, escrow, property  management, and working with contractors for repairing, constructing, and landscaping.  • Started own brokerage in 2010. IT Consultant Self - Las Vegas, NV January 2011 to April 2012 Created various sites/admin tools in php(codeigniter), html, css, xml, javascript, and mysql. Web Application Developer USC - Los Angeles, CA May 2003 to May 2004 Internet Security  • Developed a web application using .NET in C# utilizing web services from different companies and integrating into one.  • Setup secured networks and servers to prevent hackers and exploiters. Science Data Software Engineer NASA - Pasadena, CA March 2002 to November 2002 • Developed applications in Perl/IDL and software tools for visualization of scientific data over the internet.  • Developed a viewer for the ESIP Federation that will enable those using the Federation Search engine to carry out interactive visual searches. Tested system on a wide range of platforms and browsers. Chief Technology Officer USVGA - United States Video Gaming Association - Los Angeles, CA May 2001 to March 2002 • Developed the intranet backend and organized all of the UNIX and Windows servers.  • Configured a windows 2000 server (domain controller), a FreeBSD server, and a Linux server.  • Developed the intranet backend admin tools in perl and an online gaming statistics ranking application that displays all  users complete details about their gameplay using perl and mysql.  • Converted 75% of code to java using JSP. IT Consultant Oediv - Los Angeles, CA November 2000 to May 2001 • Built Oediv's Vidville.com site, which is a video message board.  • Built Oediv's MyOediv.com site, which is a video voice mail service and video message board.  • Created all dynamic pages using modPerl and Oracle as a backend.  • Developed a tool for Oediv.com that allowed them to sell the backend technology to other clients.  • Developed a search engine to search for people/zipcodes using longitude and latitude.  • Developed the backend to be modular so it can be used and converted for other clients that required similar  functionalities. IT Consultant USSearch.com - Los Angeles, CA August 2000 to November 2000 • Assisted in converting their site from CGI to modPerl, directly contributing to a 5000% increase in performance.  • Developed an internal admin tool for both marketing and search employees to make changes to the oracle backend  instantly.  • Redesigned their B2B site so two types of members can access different parts of the website. Senior Unix Programmer - Perl/C/PHP/ Python Universal Studios Online - Burbank, CA June 2000 to August 2000 • Redesigned/restructured/maintained the recreation department for Universal Studios Online.  • Developed an admin tool for Universal Studios Hollywood show times using Perl and MySQL backend.  • Admin tool is used to set default times for certain dates, set custom times for special dates, add/delete/rename  events, and display which show times appear in Spanish.  • Restructured menu script on the recreation site to display information about each theme park.  • Assisted in the global search for both flash and HTML pages using Javascript to pass to Perl/CGI into the Flash files to load up the correct Flash movie. Database/Application Developer iSpreeFree - Los Angeles, CA January 2000 to June 2000 • Created a payout referral system, such as Alladvantage, from scratch.  • Developed the all scripts using modPerl and mysql with security and error checking.  • Developed an admin tool to change content on the site with ease for all the upper management.  • Setup and maintained their whole dedicated server as a Unix System Administrator under the UNIX environment  installing Apache, perl, modPerl, Embperl, MySQL, etc, and created internal scripts for their own needs. Education Nanodegree in Java, Android, Deep Learning Udacity.com - Work at Home 2016 to 2016 Machine Learning Caltech - Pasadena, CA 2015 to 2015 Bachelor of Science in Computer Science/Engineering University of Southern California 2004 Skills Java (1 year), Perl (5 years), PHP (2 years), MySQL, Oracle, C++, HTML, CSS3, XML, Android Additional Information SKILLS/OTHER EXPERIENCES    • Languages capable of coding in: C, C++ (MFC), C#, Java, Objective C, SQL, PL/SQL, Perl (modPerl, embPerl, Mason, CGI),  Python, PHP, Javascript, VBScript (ASP), XML, HTML, DHTML, CSS, IDL, and various scripting/shell languages.  • Software capable of using: Git/GitHub, Android Studio, Eclipse, Xcode, Visual Studios, Visual Studios .NET, Websphere,  JBuilder, DB2, MySQL, TOAD, Oracle Developer's Suite, Dreamweaver, Homesite, MS Office, PowerView, and ePD.  • Knowledge in Oracle, DB2, and MySQL. Capable of writing triggers, procedures, packages, and views.  • Developed an existing game, Bejeweled, in C++ using the MFC platform.  • Developed an airport simulation in C++. Console based. Developed a lander game in Java2.  • Adequate knowledge under the UNIX environment (Solaris, Linux, FreeBSD, etc ), such as installing and maintaining  (UNIX System Administration) Apache, perl, modPerl, database applications, DNS, routing, software installation, crontab,  and more, which also includes scripting in perl, C, and other programming languages under the UNIX environment.