Software Developer Software <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Engineer/Project Manager Pasadena, CA I am a strong back-end software developer who has built complex software applications and data pipelines. Recently, I had the opportunity to manage an offshore development team leading 9 projects into productions in less than 6 months. I helped improve internal communication between departments and increase accountability by combining JIRA ticketing and Slack messaging into a platform where the company's processes are increasingly evolved around.    Software Development Experience    I designed and coded applications for the sales and accounting departments. These programs process and parse data feeds from multiple external sources such as Google, YouTube, DoubleClick, and Appnexus using their APIs.    I increased performance and reduced run time by multi-threading these parsing processes. I wrote RESTful web services using authentication. The team used an Agile approach to development, and conducted regular stand-up meetings to track progress. Our team had several successful deployments with minimal errors, and was recognized as one of the highest quality and most productive in IT. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Developer Self-Employed - Pasadena, CA April 2018 to Present Building an E-commerce website with Django, Stripe, Celery, and Docker. Field Artillery Army Officer California Army National Guard - Van Nuys, CA January 2011 to Present Supervise artillery weapon system.  Leads company size operations and tactics. Software Engineer/Project Manager Universal Financial Company - San Gabriel, CA August 2017 to February 2018 • Lead software development on Amazon AWS: Python, Lambda, DynamoDB, SQS, Incognito.  • Supervised offshore software development team on 9 projects.  • Designed workflow around JIRA ticketing/Slack messaging to improve productivity. Python Software Engineer Networkofone.com - Culver City, CA January 2016 to August 2017 • Maintaining company's primary applications: Purchase tool, CMS, Claim tools. Ruby on Rails.  • Build web scraping tools to pull Youtube's histograms. Python Django/Celery/RabbitMQ  • Maintained Discovery tool that fetches Youtube's channels and videos in Facebook and Twitter. Python/C++  • Maintained half a dozen applications using C++, Rails, Golang, Python Restful API. Software Developer Dedicatedmedia.com - El Segundo, CA October 2011 to November 2015 • API Calls to pull data from Appnexus, Google Doubleclicks, Cake Marketing, Sizmek  • Reverse engineer Android Apps to search for malwares.  • Build web scraping tools with Python Selenium.  • Build applications for accounting and sales departments using CakePHP. PHP Developer Postcardpress.com August 2008 to December 2010 • Developed online applications for the Marketing and Operation Departments.  • Maintained Java based bar-code scanner and shipping app. PHP Developer & MySQL Administrator NewCars.com - Santa Monica, CA August 2007 to April 2008 Administer MySQL databases: Replications and Partitioning.    Built and maintained back-end reporting and alert scripts that monitor commercial leads. PHP Web Developer Financeexpress.com - Irvine, CA August 2006 to July 2007 • Developed and maintained auto dealership web management application.  • Responsible for the accuracy of bi-monthly financial reporting for the accounting department. Artillery Spotter United States Marine Corps Reserve December 1999 to July 2006 Provides base security on Camp Fallujah, Iraq (mobilized between 06/2005 – 06/2006) Software Engineer FrontBridge Technologies, Inc - Marina del Rey, CA September 2003 to June 2005 Marina del Rey, CA (9/2003 - 6/2005)  • Under tight deadline, developed and maintained high-traffic mail security tool. PHP/Perl Programmer and Web Server Administrator MTCUSA/Einux - Industry, CA June 2001 to September 2003 City of Industry, CA (6/2001-9/2003)  • Built an e-commerce/computer configuration website from scratch.  • Creates customized application for business partners and resellers.    Software Engineer I One of the original Robotech.com developer Bold New World - Los Angeles, CA June 2000 to April 2001 Coldfusion Programmer CSG Interactive - Tustin, CA January 1999 to December 1999 Assists development of a price comparison website. Education MS in Software Engineering in Software Engineering California State University May 2008 BS in Finance California Polytechnic State University - Moreno Valley, CA December 1998 Military Service Branch: California Army National Guard Service Country: United States Rank: 1LT October 2009 to Present A member of 100th Troop Command. Additional Information Programming language: Python, Ruby, Perl, Bash, PHP5, Java, C++, NodeJS, Golang  Databases: AWS Redshift/DynamoDB, Redis, MySQL, MsSQL, Elasticsearch, Postgresql, MongoDB  Environment: Centos, Ubuntu, Amazon EC2, Windows, Command-line terminal  Others: AWS Lambda/Kinesis, RabbitMQ, Java/ Python Selenium, Python Celery