Director of Technology Director of Technology Culpeper, VA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Director of Technology August 2017 to Present Acting SecDevOps lead  ? Responsible for leading team towards secops practices  ? Assisted in Reducing AWS Operating Costs by 50% - while acquiring premium support.  ? Wrote a webcrawler that scans through our web application deployments and reports back any vulnerabilities that are found.  ? Co-ordinated with team in moving form 1 ec2 classic VPC to multiple segmented vpc's for various application stacks  ? Co-ordinate with producers to get their assets deployed, (websites, applications e.t.c.).  ? Wrote python utility script that returns audit's of all vpc, ec2, r53, rds, ecs assets  ? Setup AWS Elastic Container Service POC.  ? Moved several applications to containerized docker/kubernetes cluster.  ? Implement Incident Response Plan  ? Core Ruleset Implementation for mod security (WAF)  ? Gemnasium integration for dependency management (notifies/alerts and is setup to prevent builds if 1 or more libraries/modules report back a critical CVE - scans through previous builds and notifies on highly vulnerable builds).  ? Wrote terraform scripts that automated secops VPC creation and peering with other vpc's in multiple aws accounts.  ? Wrote auditing tool using flask/flask-api to help audit various AWS services (IAM, S3, e.t.c.). CPA Global November 2016 to Present Move existing legacy application to AWS.  ? Automate the Nagios inventory scripts based on a python script and jinja template (hosts.cfg)  ? Responsible for day to day maintenance of the application and colo environment (while clients are being moved to AWS)  ? Co-ordinate and give direction to other staff members/contractors  ? Wrote several ansible playbooks that are responsible for automating, deployments, maintenance, setting up new clients  ? Filling massive documentation backlog  ? Managing various collocated infrastructure such as F5 load balancers, Checkpoint VPN/ACL, Vsphere deployment, NetApp appliance, e.t.c.  ? Performing deployments to AWS as well as co-located environment in a synchronized methodical manner, utilizing puppet and cloudformation, and ansible in collocated stack.  ? Re-write Nagios monitoring into lambda functions that we leverage using cloudwatch  ? Re-architect Admin and Gateway instance infrstraucture into a single nat instance with vpc direct connect from our vpn end point to the various vpc endpoints.  ? Re-write several perl scripts into python  ? Lead a team of 3 other members towards our AWS move finishline and automate tasks in colo environment in preparation of remaining client migrations to AWS.  ? Interface with various offsite/remote resources. DevOPS Engineer FinchComputing May 2016 to Present Move existing atlassian stack to AWS  ? Automate builds utilizing python build scripts for both windows and linux builds  ? Maintain Cmake scripts as per Development needs  ? Maintain Ansible deployment scripts  ? Automate Bamboo build agents so that Agents are provisioned for a build plan and then terminated after builds are complete, tests succeeded (Unit, Regression and Functional Tests)  ? Automate infrastructure provisioning and scaling  ? Participate in multiple team scrums as a DevOps resource, Black Team (C++ core application), Orange Team (Java/ Python), and Blue Team (Node.JS).  ? Modular Builds  ? Jira/Bamboo CI/Integration  ? Deploy maintain and integrate Artifactory for Bamboo artifact management. DevOPS Engineer Aquilent October 2014 to May 2016 Developed and deployed application that processes http post data to log files via Python (Tornado framework)  ? Write salt formulas for automated configuration management (salt-stack)  ? SSO integration of all internal applications using CROWD  ? Developed and deployed file management application that uses LDAP authentication utilizing Python (Django)  ? Responsible for routine high profile government website deployments  ? Implemented salt-stack/saltcloud AWS GovCloud integration.  ? Configuration management setup utilizing  ? Bamboo  ? Custom Framework  ? Akamai Integration  ? Github Enterprise repository DevOPS Engineer VectorWorks June 2015 to February 2016 Move existing plone 2.4 deployment from on premise deployment to amazon webservices.  ? Use Ansible to perform the following in AWS  ? Prepare Ec2 instances with proper user permissions and build tools  ? Build deprecated python 2.4  ? Install specific python libraries (setuptools, simplejson, e.t.c)  ? Use perforce to deploy code  ? Execute plone buildout with necessary dependencies  ? Provision, deploy separate zeo servers (zope object store)  ? Setup supervisord to start zeo server  ? Setup supervisord to start plone application (on app instances)  ? Provision haproxy/varnish cluster  ? Add instances behind haproxy (using jinja template that uses ansible dynamic provisioning to add instances based on tags that are added using the ansible ec2 module during provisioning.  ? Reload haproxy service  ? Consult with developers and release team on best practices  ? Setup logging cluster using logstash and rsyslog  ? Write AWS boto script that helps us keep track of our resources  ? AWS VPC Planning and Deployment  ? AWS VPC Routing and ACL configuration  ? Main corporate website build and deployment process moved over to Jenkins build, test and deploy jobs.  ? Completed Jenkins build, test and deployment integration for entire backoffice/order center deployment. All underlying Backend infrastructure is managed dynamically via Ansible.  ? Utilized AWS S3 to backup and rotate data as well as logs. DevOPS Engineer June 2014 to October 2014 Architect and implement new deployment strategies  ? Write Opsworks Chef recipes  ? Utilize python/boto for various Amazon Web Services functions.  ? Re-write SFDC resource usage perl script in python  ? Integrated Opsworks and CircleCI lifecycle  ? Experience with CircleCi build scripts  ? Various Configuration Management Migrations  ? Migrate from rightscale to salt stack (For legacy application)  ? Re-write opsworks recipes to fit new chef deployment  ? Deploy new chef server and operate infrastructure  ? Multi-tennant application deployments Python Developer (Software Engineer) Team City - Saint Petersburg, FL January 2014 to January 2014 Devise and implement new deployment procedure  ? Utilizing Ansible for configuration management  ? Team City for (Continuous Integration)  ? Write new unit tests for Cameopaas application  ? Deploy new modular testing environment for SQA (QA) team.  ? Environment consists of a VM running on each SQA member's workstation  ? Each VM is managed by Ansible for configuration management  ? Required changes to application code (to get rid of table sequencing) so that story/ticket# testing can be done on the fly.  ? Implemented ticket/story switching application so that testing can be switched and resumed on demand (this mainly controls GIT branch switching and database switching).  ? Implemented web GUI so no Shell access is needed to switch between tickets for testing  ? Deployments  ? Deployed application using team city  ? Re-wrote deployment process to make use of ansible.  ? utlizied devpi and wheels for python application deployment. Dev Ops Engineer NPR - Washington, DC December 2012 to December 2013 Implementation of fully automated enterprise cloud utilizing OpenStack, KVM, Ceph and 10GBE.  ? Deployment and implementation of Chef for infrastructure as code initiative.  ? Automated scaling of virtual machines and applications across entire Openstack cloud deployment.  ? Openstack Cinder Testing and Evaluation  ? Openstack Swift Testing and Evaluation  ? Migration from previous Proxmox ve environment into new Openstack kvm environment.  ? Architected and deployed PMP (public media platform) infrastructure/operations implementation  ? Made use of cloud formation  ? Autoscaling  ? Auto load balancing  ? Auto failover  ? New code release implementation handled via Jenkins.  ? Custom reporting based on stats from Node.js application and AWS.  ? Multitude of various day to day operations scripts.  ? Chef to Saltstack migration  ? Implemented Django Dashboard application for Gui administration.  ? Familiarity with Agile software development principles and various source repository MSS Sr. Systems Engineer/Administrator Symantec - Herndon, VA December 2011 to December 2012 Full migration from all Netcool components (IMPACT, ISM e.t.c.) into Zenoss.  ? Implemented a multi tenant Zenoss implementation to support WMI monitoring, SNMP monitoring, Syslog monitoring.  ? Reported via Python tales expressions.  ? Devised and implemented multiple log retention setups via a modular Python application.  ? Implemented custom monitoring measures for various teams (i.e. time based thresholds (regex matching e.t.c).  ? Created synthetic alarms/alerts based on database table values.  ? Developed a custom alert and on-call paging delivery system written in python.  ? Developed and implemented a multi-threaded log importer application that imports logs from various application generated flat text files into SQL Server (as well as deleting old logs as per requirement- python)  ? Developed and implemented a flat text file to syslog transmission application ( Python).  ? Assisted with Datacenter migration and site to site DR of 1000+ servers with minimal to no downtime.  ? PCI Compliance implementation - worked with auditors to insure compliance of various Linux systems. Reconfiguring existing systems when possible and migrating old systems to new configurations when needed. UNIX Systems/Cloud Engineer/Administrator AOL/Advertising.com - Baltimore, MD May 2011 to December 2011 Wrote Python transforms and scripts for supporting new device/application monitors, reports and event triggers.  ? Creating custom Zenpacks for the monitoring of various applications.  ? Responsible for deploying, configuring and deploying monitoring systems (RHEL + Zenoss) in 3 geographical locations.  ? Deployed monitoring solutions for various cutting edge open source applications such as: MongoDB Vertica, Hadoop. UNIX Systems Engineer Hivelocity Ventures - Tampa, FL April 2006 to May 2011 Planning, deploying, configuring and developing server infrastructure.  ? Developed internal company sso (single sign on) software via PHP/MySQL (with LDAP integration) on CentOS 5 (Linux).  ? Assisting with the successful planning and execution of moving 3000+ servers(migrating outdated Linux servers to new hardware) to new facility.  ? Maintaining company website.  ? Successful deployment of 4 different cloud computing/ distributed computing infrastructure:  ? VMware Vsphere  ? 3terra Applogic (CentOS-5 Linux* using XEN and local storage)  ? Cloud.com (CentOS-5 Linux based solution using hardware layer3, and a homebrew CentOS-5 san serving an iSCSI target for storage )  ? Onapp (CentOS-5 Linux based solution using Nexenta SAN storage with a 8 drive raid 100 array 32GB SSD for cache) with fully functional client web portals (That interface with virtual machines, hypervisor servers, SAN software , as well as foundry switches) written in AJAX.    ? Developed and implemented DB (MySQL/Linux) migration script required to import 3000+ servers and more than 1200 devices into new commercial software.  ? Responsible for providing software/web gui interfaces for the control of several hardware devices (remote reboots, CRAC as well as PDU management).  ? Implementation of ZenOSS management  ? Experience implementing various open source monitoring software (i.e. Syslog, Cacti, Zabbix, Icinga, Groundwork)  ? Extensive experience troubleshooting and implementing SNMP enabled equipment - CRAC (AC units) APC remote reboot switches as well as various server monitoring applications/utilities.  ? Responsible for providing tools required by technical support staff (monitoring utilities alarm/alerting software front ends for vital equipment monitoring, CRAC/Temperature/Power/Generator/Network status).  ? Ensuring that monitoring services stay online and are available 24 hours a day 7 days a week.  ? Integrating data for availability reports, revenue impact as well as various other metrics.  ? Integrating various open source monitoring applications such as NAGIOS, CACTI, ZENOSS (all running on CentOS - RHEL Linux platforms) e.t.c. Geek Squad Cadet/Special Agent Best Buy - Saint Petersburg, FL March 2005 to May 2007 Deploying small business networks  ? Installing and configuring Windows 2003 Server (and applicable products)  ? Diagnosing/Repairing Windows based PCs  ? Troubleshooting and repairing several consumer devices such as iPod's within a hour.  ? Troubleshooting and repairing Windows Server 2003 servers.  ? Training customers on the use of their new or pre-existing hardware/software.    Technologies:  Chef, Puppet, Linux, Python, Ruby, AWS, EC2, Network, Education Computer Science St. Petersburg College St. Petersburg Skills linux (10+ years), MySQL (5 years), PHP (5 years), python (7 years), UNIX (5 years) Additional Information Operating Systems: Windows NT 4.0 , Windows 2000 , Windows XP , Windows Server 2003 , Windows Server 2008, Redhat Linux v3.0 and up , Ubuntu Linux 6.06 and up , Debian Linux 3.0 (woody) and up, Gentoo Linux, HP-UX, Solaris, FreeBSD    Programming (C/C++/PHP+MySQL/Javascript/Java/ Python) and Networking, Anything Linux/Unix related, Various computer and automotive related research (Modifying Engine Control Units). Integrating Windows and UNIX/Linux based systems (making systems interoperate with networking authentication and in networked environments via network shares or UNIX NFS). Defusing volatile customer situations and improving company relationships with customers.