Software Engineer ( Python Developer) Software Engineer (<span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span>) Software Engineer ( Python Developer) - Dow Jones Fremont, CA ? Experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Management and Implementation of various stand-alone, client-server enterprise applications.  ? Extensive knowledge in Python, PHP, C++  ? Good Knowledge Objected Oriented Concepts, Standard Template Library, Smart Pointers, Data Structures and Design patterns.  ? Web development using Python and Django.  ? Experience in developing Openstack and AWS clouding system.  ? Developed/supported application on LAMP stack (using PHP, MYSQL and Apache).  ? Hands-on experience in Python scripting, Django, UI and web development.  ? Front-end development experience using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, JSON.  ? Experience in Agile development techniques. Keen on learning and adaptable to any platform.  ? Active Participation in  ? Software development life cycle (requirements, analysis, design, architecture, development, testing, integration, maintenance, and evaluation)  ? Excellent analytical and problem solving skills and ability to work on own besides being a valuable and contributing team player. Work Experience Software Engineer ( Python Developer) Dow Jones - San Francisco, CA November 2015 to Present Worked on development and maintenance of nominating ones who contribute the company in HR Tools    Responsibilities:  • Development python code for employees activating participation to award nominators and win prizes  • Implement Python Script to manage nomination pool to upgrade functionalities in monthly and annually basis  • Responsible setting up all modules and features using Django framework  • Maintenance and manipulation to create, update, add, remove, retrieve data from MySQL database  • Installation and setting up Python/Django/MySQL in AWS and EC2 cloud platform  • Implement python code in security, stock quote, and load JSON features in Restful API    Environment: Python 2.7, Django MYSQL, Workbench, PostgreSQL, Linux, AWS cloud, EC2, Mac OX, Ubuntu 15.04, and Git. Python (Cloud) Software Engineer Cisco Systems Inc - San Jose, CA May 2015 to September 2015 Worked on development of Open Stack Ceilometer system on open stack  Responsibilities:  • Responsible for Python scripts to retrieve data from database for Open Stack Ceilometer: monitoring and metering  • Implemented metadata query and statistics query with Python REST API for open stack Ceilometer and Ceilosca  • Supported the script configure, deploy and run monitoring and metering  • Installation server and client clouding horizon instances on the VMs cloud    Environment: Python 2.7, Flask, OpenStack, Cisco Cloud Horizon, Ceilosca, Ceilometer, Ubuntu 15.04, SQLAlchemy, Mongodb, MYSQL, Linux, Shell Scripting, and Git. Python Developer Berkeley Advanced Biomedical - Berkeley, CA May 2014 to May 2015 Worked on development of drug development and treatment tracking system.  Roles and Responsibilities in the project:  • Created UI using Javascript, HTML, CSS  • Responsible for setting up Python REST API framework using Django.  • Implemented security features for the APIs.  • Installation and setting up Python/Unix test beds  • Wrote Automation/test python scripts to test.  • Implemented code in python to retrieve and manipulate data.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django, Ubuntu 12.04, MYSQL, Apache, Linux, Shell Scripting. Python/C++ Developer Bio-Rad labs - Hercules, CA May 2013 to April 2014 Worked on conversion of Sales/Back Office Integration system from PHP to Python/Django System.  Roles and Responsibilities in the project:    • Responsible for setting up networks through Design and Development.  • Performed analysis of PHP/C++ code to figure out the business logic.  • Developed GUI using HTML, AJAX, Javascript and jQuery.  • Re-engineered various modules for implementing changes and creating efficient system.  • Supported PHP/LAMP application.  • Used Webservices for integration with Back Office system.  • Developed dynamic web pages using python Django Frameworks.  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation  • Supported Apache Server on Linux Platform.  Environment: Python 2.7/3, Django, PHP 8, LAMP (MySQL, Linux), C++, Linux, Apache, Shell Scripting Education Bachelors in Mathematics, in Mathematics, CSU East Bay 2009 Masters in Computer Science CSU East Bay, 2014 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Operating Systems Unix, Linux, Windows, Ubuntu  Web technologies JavaScript, XML, HTML  Languages Python, PHP, C++  Frameworks Django, Flask  Database Oracle, SQL SERVER, MYSQL, SQLalchemy  Internet Programming HTML, CSS, JSON, JQuery, Web Services, Apache, AWS, EC2  Software Tools Eclipse, Microsoft Visual Studio, MS Visio  Version Control Tools Perforce, Git,