GIS Data Manager, C#, Python, AccessVBA Programmer GIS Data Manager, C#, <span class="hl">Python</span>, AccessVBA Programmer GIS Data Manager, C#, Python, AccessVBA Programmer Lubbock, TX Award winning ArcGIS ESRI Expert programmer and Developer who Architected the States Relational (RDBM) GeoDatabases based on standards and products shared OUT to NavteQ, Google, Bing, all the DOT's and FHWA for Modeling. David is a very accomplished Web Master and visual problem solver with over 17 years of professional IT SQL dba and experienced in the development of Relational Databases, PL/SQL, ESRI ArcGIS geographic information systems and custom GIS applications. David has mastered many core development languages and constantly delivers highly advanced database-interface-design technologies and solutions. He represented Colorado CAD Drafting and Cartographic Mapping as the GIS department, lead at the 26th Annual ESRI GIS User Conference and was listed in the Circle of Excellence for quickly achieving corporate initiatives in a lead development role. Professional expertise and competencies:    * C#, Java/Eclipse Android/Google/API 3.0  * VB.NET, Python, Lisp, ArcObject, XML  * Unix Shell, Dos, Perl, Vb & JavaScript  * LRS Automation Master of ESRI ArcSDE  * Advanced ArcGIS Geoprocessing, AXML  * CAD Drafting Engineering & Design  * Enterprise Data Modeling, Migration  * PL/SQL & Oracle Spatial, DHTML, Access.  * Crystal Reports, Business Objects, JDEdwards  * ArcMap, ArcGIS Server, ArcCatalog modeling.  * Assets Facilities & Land Management  * Transportation, Oil & Gas, Telecom Work Experience GIS Data Manager, C#, Python, AccessVBA Programmer COLORADO DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION January 2005 to January 2016 Managed and Developed Colorado's On and Off System Roadway GIS Linear Reference GPS systems. Developed SDE/LRS RDBM Structures schemas as well as award winning new mobile phones with GPS Image controls with automation scripts and tools, features, datasets and models. Built versioned ArcGIS (PGD) personal geodatabases, AccessVBA and ArcObjects applications for HUTF funding, data management, planning and inventory activities on the Colorado transportation system. Lead the state of Colorado as the lead technical editor and developer for the Onsystem LRS route facilities and features. Published federally regulated highway datasets, maps and reports for statewide funding apportionments and federal aid disbursements. AutoCAD Technical Designer, DBA, Webmaster, Facilities Project Manager KENNEY ARCHITECTS, P.C - Denver, CO February 2002 to September 2004 CAD engineering and production, commercial architectural design, project management, MSAccess database technician, webmaster, print and promotional art/layout for marketing advertisement presentations, customer requirements code studies and facility planning, customer walk-throughs, ArcView environmental code studies and website development. PC Administration, IT desktop support, DOS, LISP, VB and javascripting, developed AutoCAD objects and multi block attributes for SQL queries, measurements and project scheduling. Dynamic floor plans, elevations and detailed sections. Built 3D models with rolling options for interactive web browsing. DBA, Webmaster, Software Developer, IT J.F. SHEA COLORADO - Highlands Ranch, CO January 2001 to November 2002 HIGHLANDS RANCH, COLORADO  SQL Server, Access & FoxPro database design & administration, web & application development, product presentations, classroom training & IT desktop support. Network communications, and production operations, AutoCAD design, scheduling, VB, C, JavaScript & .NET programming, custom website cgi and asp data driven forms, palm and desktop application development. ArcView site and environmental analysis, mapping, charting & price point analysis. Web and Powerpoint presentation design, 3D animations, graphics, layout & copywriting for commercial marketing and advertising. Lead the Colorado division as the subject expert on web programming and the six-sigma quality measurement processes. Oracle DBA & Webmaster, IT level-III Support, AutoCAD Engineer, GIS Trainer USWEST COMMUNICATIONS INC. / QWEST COMMUNICATIONS - Littleton, CO February 1995 to January 2001 Lead the engineering department in level-3 programming and technical support. Developed GIS and non-spatial databases, CAD work prints and web interfaces for network operations. Modeled outside plant assets for cost and work flow analysis. Reporting directly to CEO's using TK, perl and C scripts and application that detected critical performance and accuracy compliance data measurements and conditions on multiple data systems. Facilities CAD design systems analyst, PC & Unix system administration, Oracle database management, document librarian, technical writer, graphic artist & webmaster, advanced code slinger (C, C#, java and perl programming) job duties advanced over the years to include: project management, technical development, training, IT support, public speaking and public relations.    Oil & Gas Land Management - Oil & Gas Land Drafting in Houston Texas, Total Petroleum 5 Years Experience  References, activities and salary history are available. Education BA in Petroleum Land Management Texas Tech - Tech, Texas, US