iOS Developer iOS <span class="hl">Developer</span> iOS Developer - Self Employed Baltimore, MD Work Experience iOS Developer Self Employed - Baltimore, MD January 2018 to Present Made an application to create and manage internet passwords based on the use of SHA-3 cryptographic hashing and associated key words, entropy value, and creation phrase, which provides a means to make unguessable passwords from guessable ones, without requiring password storage to occur at rest locally. Senior Python Developer (Contract) APG/ALC, MD October 2017 to Present Army Research Laboratory APG/ALC, MD  Set up ElastAlert for ElasticSearch notifications and created/managed all notifiers. Made regular CR changes to PHP & JS based applications. Documented existing codebase. Created various scripts in Python. Migrated Python code to new versions. Developed machine learning feature sets. Managed junior developers. Attended security conferences. Supported custom Network Intrusion Detection System (NIDS). Web Security Engineer (Contract) Transportation Security Administration (Aecom) - Arlington, VA January 2016 to October 2017 Assisted in creation of Tenable Compliance Audits. Performed analysis of software binaries utilizing tools such as Tenable Nessus, Wireshark, TCPView, Procman, Nmap, Netscout(Fluke) Optiview, AppDetective, VirusTotal, IPVoid. Performed static code analysis of websites utilizing IBM AppScan, HPE Fortify, and by doing manual tests for OWASP Top 10 issues and reviewing for common in-house issues. Traveling to onsite locations to perform said evaluations and communicating testing procedures with both clients and vendors. Developing and testing scripts and technologies to assist in the automation of security infrastructure. Keeping current on recent security developments both in general software security and issues unique to web development. Python Programmer (Temp Contract) Defense Intelligence Agency April 2016 to June 2016 Remote)  Provided expertise in Python, PHP programming and development to develop and document customizable GUIs for managing malware detection in a hybrid log server & network-based intrusion detection system. Security Engineer (Contract) US Coast Guard - Washington, DC November 2015 to January 2016 Kearneysville, WV  Supported CyberCAT Delta in short term contract designed to offer crucial levels of support in achieving cybersecurity goals. Created initial computer inventory database schema and relevant ACAS inventory import scripts using MS SQL Server 2012. Investigated use of OVAL/SCAP tools in reaching security goals. Interpreted Linux and Windows STIG security requirement checklists into configuration testing scripts composed of bash shell, python, or powershell scripts for use with BladeLogic. Acted as team lead in communicating progress, overall status, and managing peer reviews of code. Python Developer (Contract) Air Force Defense Cyber Crime Center (AllStaff Technical) - Timonium, MD November 2014 to September 2015 Acted as SME for PKI digital signature Python integration into a RESTFUL web services platform. Created application features involving STIX and TAXII. Wrote unit and functional tests for new and existing Python and PostgreSQL code. Developed and applied testing metrics to troubleshoot performance bottlenecks. Resolved Python code bugs. Made and modified PHP and jQuery code to add features. Patched insecure code according to Fortify findings. Developed secure Oracle PL/SQL Queries for page interactions. Created pages with multiple layers of asynchronous interactions. Documented bugs. Lead SQL Developer (Contract) Federal Transit Administration (Simplion) - Falls Church, VA April 2014 to October 2014 Created, tested, debugged hundreds of complex internal MySQL 5.6 stored procedure validations using agile methodologies for Appian based national FTA & DOT database. Applied automated testing to resolve issues in design and dependencies. Managed and assisted other developers in order to get them up to speed and through hurdles. Interacted with program managers, and resources to determine architectural choices and potential pitfalls. Managed patching, contributed to architecture. Consulted with coworkers on a timely basis. DBA (Contract) Millennial Media - Baltimore, MD May 2013 to April 2014 Acted as secondary DBA over 20+MySQL 5.5/5.6 Instances, the largest of which topped 8 Terabytes in size. Served as co-admin over several Vertica clusters warehousing data in excess of 30 Terabytes. In these roles, analyzed queries and database behavior using Percona tools, DB Tuna (AppDynamics), InnoTop, and other tools both third party and home grown. Fixed replication problems with databases, created new replication slaves, resolved issues with bottlenecks, locks, deadlocks. Created and modified Icinga (Nagios) tests for replication, connectivity, data collection management. Assisted with setup of Tungsten replicator. Managed users, long running queries, custom reports, data import/export processes, making queries more efficient, scheduling of heavy maintenance processes. Created Perl/Bash cron scripts, LDAP configurations, database splitting configurations, ad hoc reports, integrity checks. Administered some Oracle instances. Researched use of Mysql Proxy, HAProxy, MySQL Fabric, Galera, MAPR Technologies. Advised Vice President on DBMS necessary hardware, process improvements, security issues. Security Analyst/ Programmer / Administrator (Contract) US Army (CRGT) - Fort Belvoir, VA January 2012 to April 2013 Performed security scans on PHP websites, and internal code, managed testing instances with VMware Fusion. Migrated and upgraded applications. Coded patches for PHP applications to ensure security. Automation of reporting and testing software. Maintained, administered, refactored Filemaker, MySQL databases. Developed and refactored Perl helper applications for hosting servers. Applied patches and updates to production servers. Use of svn & git in version control. Debugging regular expression apache rewrites. Parsed logs for security issues, application issues and redirection issues. Created and managed CRs. Supported high profile production websites. Project Manager/ Lead Programmer (Multi Contract) Library of Congress (GBTI) - Washington, DC November 2011 to January 2012 Delegation of programmers to sections of projects. Communication of issues upstream and downstream. Administration of internal support servers. Cleanup of messy, redundant, and otherwise unproductive code. Finding, resolving bugs. Writing new code segments. Determining other possible outstanding issues and solutions in Code Igniter structure, LAMP installation, Subversion or in the additional plugins/extensions/libraries that are used. Explaining issues to programmers, clarifying requirements, and determining best implementation strategies. MySQL High Availability Consultant (Multi Contract) Library of Congress (GBTI) - Washington, DC November 2011 to January 2012 Created & filled in data gathering documents in order to facilitate discovery & analysis of existing databases' use, optimization and maintenance requirements. Documented parameters and functions of MySQL database for DBAs on staff. Researched future options and presented mitigation strategies to client, documenting technological and workflow related advantages, disadvantages to each. Systems Support Eng Oracle BTM Tech - Springfield, VA November 2010 to November 2011 Supported the install of INCO (Inventory Checkout) and improvements to the code base (Perl). Wrote CR's. Performed break/fix work. Rewrote Perl-based WMI queries. Worked with VMware, MSCS, and Oracle Clustering technologies. Acted as primary test engineer for windows application upgrades/installations and as a secondary for production support. Senior Analyst (Contract) Library of Congress (GBTI) - Washington, DC September 2010 to November 2010 Assessed redevelopment of BARD site by creating use cases, examining previously developed code base (Perl/SQLite), determining key sections, finding development bottlenecks, and acting as a lead for developers. Evaluated possible frameworks, use of plugins, development environment and functional requirements. Planned for changes to the MySQL/PHP environment. Researched real-time download statistical requirements. Independent Contractor Integrated PayPal - Atlanta, GA August 2010 to September 2010 GA  Initially developed and reskinned websites that used PayPal, MySQL, & PHP. Integrated PayPal. Developed htaccess security configuration, transactional user messaging, email reply "portal", basic search routines, Cron-tabbed update scripts, image uploads. In development process tested/researched use of php sockets for chat and webcam communications, as well as hybrid solutions. Developed jQuery cascading dropdowns for a consumer advocate website "pilot" and accompanying forms for entry on site. Cold Fusion Programmer (Contract) AT&T - Atlanta, GA June 2010 to August 2010 Coded several CF web applications according to specification. Wrote and modified several Stored Procedures, Custom Functions, SSIS packages. Managed SQL Server 2008 agent jobs, DTS packages, and server monitoring for pending issues. Suggested SVN code management, which was implemented. Created a macro enabled Excel sheet that copies it's un-macro'ed self up to a SharePoint server. Researched several processes like machine-based logins, acquiring non-standard software, and ways to programmatically utilize SharePoint. PHP Programmer (Temp) Huntsville Utilities - Huntsville, AL March 2010 to May 2010 Created PHP/LDAP Application to query windows domain information, created/modified several php/MySQL data logging applications for different departments, some written entirely in OO PHP. Created Google Maps integrations. Support Ass't & Reports Programmer (Perm) Windstream - Dalton, GA July 2009 to February 2010 Produced and supported jQuery/Cold Fusion driven custom reports used by 200+ users with data gathered from other departments through (MS SQL Server 2000) DTS & DOS batch data pulls. Consolidated previous spaghetti code into Code Fusion cfc's, eliminating redundancy. Reconciled data sources so applications would not be pulling from redundant copies of tables. Set up LDAP querying departmentally so that web logins could be single sign on. Analyzed data integrity issues for possible problems. Added SVN to better support code management. Created multiple pass CF based PDF generating reports. Hardware Field Engineer (Contract/PT) ATM machines January 2005 to January 2010 Barrister Global Various  Repair of desktops, laptops, ATM machines. Communication with central tech support on issues. Cold Fusion - Atlanta, GA August 2008 to June 2009 Vexcom.com Atlanta, GA  Created custom web applications from user requirements (utilizing triggers, stored procedures, MySQL, jQuery, php, Cold Fusion, C#, and OO practices when possible - promoting code reuse). Resolved issues with existing developed applications and sites. Reviewed projects for time requirements and feasibility. Rewrote old code for security and cross browser functionality. Centralized business logic for applications. One project (in PHP) was a portal for business mergers with a full set of security, entry and reporting features. Others were shell script modifications, completing a site in C# that was started, modifying internal sites, and creating new internal sites for lead generation. I also resolved issues with previously developed sites and developed systems of site integration where preexisting sites could communicate/share limited amounts of data. One of the portals I created utilized GIS information for matching resources. Flash Programmer (Student/PT) Kennesaw State University - Atlanta, GA August 2007 to August 2008 Developed 2 custom Flash applications. One to demonstrate the differences in ER diagrams and one to test students on the design of ER diagrams with specific scenarios. The first application was created by using a prototype which allowed resizing of images, much like you find in Illustrator. The second was totally custom (in AS3) and utilized several specific "click-points" and menus to allow a student to create drag and drop entities and select the appropriate relationship between them. The Flash program loads an XML sheet on initialization that has the scenario explanation and the scenario answer, so testing the student can be done easily by embedding the Flash program into different pages and pointing to different XML documents, or by loading the page dynamically and pointing to different XML documents each time. LAMP/ASP Software Developer Perm - Atlanta, GA April 2006 to August 2008 AssignByWeb.com Atlanta, GA  Resolved critical issues with OO PHP web portals. Optimized MySQL queries. Administered MySQL databases. Added new features all which both increased portal as a solution provider and made it a more viable solution for many clients. Managed Access databases for the legacy sites and updated code for changes when needed. Added major feature sets to the main portal such as custom reporting, subsite grouping options, different display options. Integrated Google Maps API into main portal to retrieve GIS related information and made it into part of our service-oriented architecture. Lan Administrator (Co-op) Norfolk Southern - McDonough, GA August 2007 to December 2007 04/08-08/08 Communicated with techs off site about things that needed to be completed. Worked on projects like computer inventories which I completed through a WMI reporting program, a java stub script I created and SQL aggregation. Created an Access based repository for searching media center films originals, and copies, and reorganized all of the shelving for about 2000+ tapes and media. Researched auto-boot options for reimaging computer systems. Looked into issues with dropped network packets and fought to get the Network techs out to diag the issue further in order to fix it. Looked at issues involving Crystal Reports, as well as bandwidth issues, and recoding testing templates. Imaging machines and replacing hardware was commonplace. Also performed support of live video shoots with teleprompting and lighting setup. Investigated conversion of videos to a flv (flash video) format. ASP/CF/Access Programmer Perm/PT - Sandy Springs, GA October 2005 to April 2006 Altered CF code for Emory site, and both web (ASP/JS) and Access front end to a MS SQL Server database housing real estate attorney records. Web Developer (Contract/PT) Pixelpop.com - Tampa, FL May 2005 to August 2005 Tampa, FL  Performed backend programming as needed by client. Finished a home buying lead tool in ASP, and some display/shopping cart logic for a furniture design company primarily in javascript. Programmed some other basic sites. Cold Fusion Programmer (Contract/PT) Excelovation.com - Atlanta, GA May 2005 to July 2005 Atlanta, GA  Altered cryptic Cold Fusion Fusebox based sites to specifications. Programmer (Contract) eAutoclaims.com - Oldsmar, FL February 2005 to April 2005 Oldsmar, FL  Analyzed, designed and changed complex ColdFusion (and BlueDragon) based web applications utilizing the Fusebox architecture on Apache and IIS platforms using VSS and Homesite. Modified and added tables, views, stored procs and inline tSQL on MSSQL Server 2000. DBA Computer Repair - Saint Petersburg, FL January 2005 to February 2005 Creation of custom database for operation of computer shop. Repair of computers for refurbishment. Configured Mac X Server boxes. Software Migration Tech (Contract) USCG - Panama City Beach, FL October 2004 to December 2004 Performed US Coast Guard Migration of software and personal information from old workstations to new workstations. Web Developer (Contract) AFCESA (ACS) - Tyndall AFB, FL March 2003 to October 2004 Produced applications for the Air Force. These are the first AJAX driven sites that I created and mostly in ASP/JS. We also made pretty standard changes to sites on a regular basis and supported the Air Force Civil engineers in other ways as well. Programmer/Network Admin Perm/PT - Clearwater, FL March 2002 to February 2003 Developed database solutions using Filemaker, which combines presentation form and database into one product. Set up workstations as Redhat servers for in-house use. Installed servers for third party clients. Performed hardware repair and maintenance. Maintained warehouse and ran orders. Setup carnival style tents for events. Made flavors for distribution to bakeries. Batched shortcake mix. Exposure to high variety of business types. Setup port forwarding and VPN on routers, and firewall features of Redhat. Challenged by Quickbooks Filemaker integration project, which required very heavy use of XML via a Plugin. First use of a pallet jack. MIS Team Leader Perm/PT - Saint Petersburg, FL March 2001 to January 2002 Performed support operations on the Unix Server. Reset dumb Terminals. Wired a new facility with Ethernet cabling. Produced custom reports for the staff. Learned some of the proprietary Medical Manager system. Made calls to third party support. Arranged third parties to write specialized reports. Organized IT related areas. Web Designer (Contract) Hillsborough County, Florida - Tampa, FL September 2000 to December 2000 Made changes to web pages. Most were updates to news pages. Learned about Verity, the Cold Fusion search tool, which was used locally prior to Google. Designed a Cold Fusion application to post government jobs on website through the database which was MS SQL. There were many rote graphics changes each day. Web Designer Perm - Clearwater, FL February 2000 to August 2000 WorldCallExchange.com Clearwater, FL  Originally hired to help with graphic support but quickly learned Cold Fusion and utilized that to drive the website for the company - a start-up. Learned basic SQL DML there and my first bits of SQL security reading about SQL injection. I also learned more Flash and set up my first ecommerce page through this company though an ASP plugin. Web Designer Perm - Clearwater, FL November 1999 to January 2000 NewNetwork.com Clearwater, FL  Developed Perl scripts to deal with our web page ordering system, since the real "IT" people were busy with other projects. Designed custom websites 1-4 pages long for businesses using Fireworks, Dreamweaver, Photoshop, and MS Image Composer. Individualized with minimal amounts of interactivity and guided by a graphic designer. This is my first exposure to Dreamweaver, Fireworks, and Flash. This was my first time managing a team of developers. I also picked up on MS registry use. Lucent Tech (Robert Half) - Clearwater, FL February 1999 to October 1999 Monitored servers for non-signaled failures. Created shell scripts to automate all of the checks. Demonstrated a security flaw in a Linux server. Performed a list of computer updates on workstations. Teacher's Assistant (Student) University of Central Florida - Orlando, FL January 1997 to June 1999 Taught & administered 4-5 class sections of university level students in of lab sessions, graded work, and provided feedback in a timely fashion. Demonstrated use of Access (basic SELECT statements, recording macros), Excel (formula use), Word (fonts/tabs/spacing/formatting), and internet use (web page development, Unix based email) to business students. Also taught web page creation. Allotted grades based on work and participation. Computer Help Desk (Student) University of Central Florida - Orlando, FL January 1997 to December 1998 Received incoming support calls from faculty, staff for various issues. Guided students through configuration and setup in person and over the phone. Filed calls and visitations into problem management system (Remedy). Assisted students with dialup connectivity issues. We supported largely Novell and Windows 98/NT environments. Webmaster (Volunteer) Baptist Campus Ministries - Orlando, FL 1996 to 1998 Created website for organization. Had 3 major overhauls. Managed CGI scripting on a non-CGI server via the form mailto hack, and some procmail magic. The CGI script would run, triggered by procmail and insert a favorite Bible verse into a webpage include, so that others could see. I had also coded an imagemap by hand, which for the time was good because docs on the stuff were hard to come by. This is where I had my first 'professional' exposure to Photoshop and Illustrator. Tutor (Student) University of Central Florida - Orlando, FL August 1996 to December 1997 Acted as primarily a Math and Science (but sometimes English) tutor for UCF athletes. Assisted students as required, attended study sessions which were required for athletes on academic probation. Computer Lab Consultant (Student) University of Central Florida - Orlando, FL August 1995 to December 1997 Assisted students with login procedures, computer maintenance, TCP/IP troubleshooting (when applicable), and demonstrated software use to students, including Microsoft Office, Foxpro, Access, and several programming languages as well as the Unix environment, email, etc. Included in responsibilities was supervising workstations from theft, destruction and other types of malice as the labs were open 24/7. We also made revisions on support documents for ease of use and shared information with each other on a private listserv. Learned about DNS here. Webmaster/Admin for AIX IBM - Tampa, FL May 1997 to August 1997 Development of an internal site for the organization and dissemination of AIX related information for one of the sales teams. Most of the work was in Perl and was my first use of databases to connect web-based information to database. In this instance, it was DB2 through a Perl generated web page. Accomplished without specific direction about databases, or prior teaching on the subject. Maintained an AIX server, including software packages with AIX's included package manager as well as configuration. It was the first Unix machine I ever had 'root' access on. Student Lockheed Martin - Orlando, FL May 1996 to August 1996 Worked to troubleshoot Unix (HP/Sun/SGI) machines in the network by checking process loads and disk space, etc., and created accounts for them as well. ADA Programmer (Co-op) ATS - Orlando, FL May 1995 to August 1995 Coded utility applications in ADA, such as waveform transform creators. Also utilized Photoshop to emulate aircraft photographs that were not taken by utilizing ones that were. Education Master of Science in Applied Computer Science in Database Architecture Kennesaw State University 2008 Certificate in Windows Programming Saint Petersburg College 2005 Bachelor of Science in Computer Science in Mathematics University of Central Florida 1998 Skills Swift, Xcode Certifications/Licenses A+ Certified (Expired) Present Linux+ Present Security+ CE Present CySA+ Present