Software Developer- II Software <span class="hl">Developer</span>- II Software Developer- II - DXC Technology El Paso, TX • 3 years of experience in IT and Web/Application developed with analytical programming skills.  • Good exposure to writing UNIX Shell Scripts.  • Worked through all phases of SDLC: Requirements Gathering, Analysis, Design, Development, Testing, UAT, Implementation (Production), Maintenance Support (Post Production).  • Experience of Object-Oriented Programming and design concepts.  • Expert knowledge of MVC frameworks like Python Django framework.  • Developed backend business logic to parse the data from XML and JSON formats.  • Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations  • Experience in Healthcare Domain.  • Participated in HIPPA Privacy and Security training to protect personal information from identity theft.  • Excellent Analytical & problem-solving skills with good interpersonal skills, Time Management Skills and possesses good work ethics.  • Exposure to data analysis with Python libraries (Pandas).  • Worked in Agile and Waterfall Methodologies with high-quality deliverables delivered on-time.  • Maintained detailed documentation and architectural solutions in IT infrastructure and sales systems.  • Experience in Unit testing and Integration testing.  • Exposure to relational databases like MySQL, SQL Server and Oracle DB and non-relational databases like Mongo dB.  • Experience in designing the UI dashboard using HTML/CSS and JavaScript, jQuery.  • Exposure to web scraping using Python Beautiful Soup. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Software Developer- II DXC Technology September 2016 to Present Technologies Used: C, HP-Unix, Shell Scripting and Oracle PL/SQL.    Project description:  Worked on Interchange framework to offer IT solutions in Healthcare projects for the client Florida Medicaid Department. As a part of this project initially, we gather claims form various providers in the state of Florida through our web portal. Generally, these claims are in XML format. We created the backend business logic to uniquely identify each claim and calculate the exact amount it needed to be paid. We use several edits and audits to find the exact price for a service. Finally, after processing the claims through our claims engine library each claim is given a status of paid, denied or suspended.  Responsibilities:  • Worked in developing and maintaining Claims Engine for the Florida state MMIS.  • Exposure to the overall system architecture and functioning of various subsystem's Like Claims and Financial (FIN)  • Programming involved advanced C concepts, Shell scripting and Oracle database in the backend.  • Worked on various PL/SQL scripts to extract/update data from Oracle to generate various Excel reports.  • Worked using HP-UNIX interchange framework and Pro-C framework for database connectivity.  • Developed C programs to parse the data from claims (XML).  • Wrote UNIX batch jobs using Csh and bash scripting.  • Automated few daily activities of the system using Ksh scripting.  • Worked on creating and loading Jobs into the JIL's (load and exact boxes) to run them automatically at the desired time.  • Engaged in 24X7 on-call support to fix the critical job failures in production.  • Debugged issues in source code using HP-UNIX Gdb debugger.  • Worked on few runtime improvement scenarios to improve the job run time.  • Used VCTL for Version control.  • Worked with iTrace for tracking the status of the tasks.  • Participated in HIPPA Privacy and Security training for protecting sensitive data against the security breaches.  • Experience in working with test-driven development and writing test cases.  • Worked with business analysts to identify the business impact of the code changes. Python developer ESN technologies - IN January 2014 to May 2015 Technologies Used: Python 2.7, Django, HTML/CSS, JavaScript, jQuery My SQL, Eclipse, Linux, Shell Scripting.  Responsibilities:  • Analysis and Design of application.  • Developed and tested UI dashboard features using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and jQuery.  • Implemented business logic using Python/Django Framework.  • Worked with millions of database records, finding common errors and bad data patterns and fixing them.  • Maintained program libraries, users' manuals, and technical documentation.  • Used Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package to interact with the database.  • Carried out various mathematical operations for calculation purpose using python libraries.  • Used Python urllib and requests libraries for feathering the data from JSON API's and updating the database.  • Implemented Shell Scripts to automate the job processes.  • Performed troubleshooting and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were the main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  • Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations.  • Used GitHub for version control.  • Performed Unit and system testing.  • Trained users and did production support. Education Master's in Computer and Information Technology Kent State University - Kent, OH