Instructor AP Computer Science A (Java) Instructor AP Computer Science A (Java) Instructor AP Computer Science A (Java) Highland Park, NJ Work Experience Instructor AP Computer Science A (Java) Quakerbridge Learning Center July 2017 to August 2017 Instructor Python lanuage basics and game development  Instructor and course developer for both AP Computer Science A and Python.  The AP Computer Science course aligns with the college board AP Computer Science A curriculum covering topics usually include in a college-level first semester computer science course. In this course the students study problem solving, program design, algorithms and data structures. The students learn basic Java language programming including program control constructs, use of arrays and strings, class methods, object-oriented design and the use of standard Java class libraries.  The Python course is geared to middle school students. In the course the students learn the basics of Python language programming and are introduced to video game programming using PyGame package. Co-Teacher AP Computer Science Principles Humanities Preparatory Academy - New York, NY 2016 to 2017 TEALS - Technology Education and Literacy in Schools  https://www.tealsk12.org/  Co-teacher AP Computer Science Principles at Humanities Preparatory High School in Manhattan. AP Computer Science Principles is an approved College Board curriculum. I am teamed with a High School Math teacher at Humanities Preparatory High School to deliver the curriculum to a class of 11th and 12th graders. I help the teacher plan weekly lessons, lending expertise and giving guidance in important CS principles such as abstraction as well helping her understand the material when needed. Along with planning activities I prepare and lead lessons, work individually with struggling students and review and grade assignments. Instructor Java and Python Quakerbridge Learning Center July 2016 to August 2016 My responsibilities included developing curriculum and teaching Python to a class of middle school students and Java to a class of high school students. Using as a basis the book by Tony Gaddis, Starting out with Python, and Making Games with Pygame by Al Sweigart, I developed a curriculum appropriate for middle school students with no prior programming experience. Each lesson included instruction and hands on programming lab work. The class culminated in the students writing their own game in Python. For the Java class I used the text book by Paul and Harvey Deitel, Java How to program, adapting it for high school students. The class met for two hours every day for six weeks. The students learned the fundamentals of programming and the basic concepts of Object Orientation as well as Java programming. The classes were structured to combine teacher lead instruction with hands on programming exercises. As a final project the students created their own game using Java.  N.J. Literacy/ESL Tutor (Current)  I currently tutor ESL to two students. We meet for two hours twice a week. I assess the areas where they need the most help with English and prepare materials and lessons accordingly.  Other Computer Programming Teaching Experience  CodeNow Weekend Workshops for N.Y. City high school students  Hour of Code with 5th grade students  Software Development Related Teaching Experience  Mentored junior developers  Training Webinar Sessions    Software Development Experience Wireless Senior Java Consultant Verizon January 2013 to July 2015 Responsibilities:  Full life cycle development of middle tier Java applications for Mobile Content Solutions (MCS) department. The primary role of MCS is to onboard customers and vendors and provide billing and/or usage tracking of mobile applications. My role included participation in requirement reviews, design, development and unit testing of applications and project tracking. Applications were developed using both Websphere as the application server and as standalone java processes. Team Lead of global development team building Java middle tier/backend applications Citco Fund Services June 2007 to August 2012 Team Lead/Senior Developer Creditex Group February 2006 to 2007 of Java SWING GUI for TZero, a real-time electronic capture system that redirects all trade details, assignments, allocations and other relevant trade details in the processing of credit derivatives and automatically allows counter parties to send affirmed trades to the Depository Trust and Clearing Corporation for same-day or T+0 legal execution. netForensics - Edison, NJ December 2003 to October 2005 Member Highland Park Board of Education April 2001 to April 2004 Lead GUI developer netForensics's nFX Open Security Platform 1995 to September 2003 a Security Information Management System that aggregates and correlates security events providing visualization tools and analytics to help companies pinpoint intruders and attacks on their networks. This application is 100% Java/Swing/SOAP. 1995 -Sept. 2003 Telcordia Technologies (formerly Bell Communications Research) Lead GUI developer for Network Configuration Manager netForensics's nFX Open Security Platform 1998 to 2003 Telecommunication Inventory, Service and Activation System. Lead Reference Data developer netForensics's nFX Open Security Platform 1996 to 1998 for FORCE, a dispatching system, written in PowerBuilder in a 2-Tier Architecture with extensive use of Datawindows and SQL queries. Programmer/Analyst for SWITCH a network inventory system netForensics's nFX Open Security Platform 1995 to 1996 Developed programs in C on MVS; IMS DB/DC. Bennett Consulting Inc 1988 to 1995 Established and ran my own software consulting company. Translated user requirements into turn key systems. Provided network support for small offices. Wrote user documentation for all applications developed.    Elected Position: Education BA in N.J. Certification Rutgers University 1975 Chaim Greenberg Teachers Institute - Jerusalem, IL 1970