Senior Python/.NET/Database Developer Senior <span class="hl">Python</span>/.NET/Database <span class="hl">Developer</span> Database Developer: Control, Performance, Logic Holmdel, NJ Work Experience Senior Python/.NET/Database Developer Bank of America Merrill Lynch - New York, NY December 2014 to Present Implements business logic and data models with Python and SQL for group’s primary application ? Contributes to technical architecture, OO design and DB design ? Developed efficient and reliable data replication solution from RDBMS to OODB, thus enabling userfriendly and responsive UI ( Python) ? Created database query regression test tool ( Python) ? Develops and optimizes tables, materialized views and queries for Oracle 12c (Exadata) ? Resolved performance issues of the legacy SQL code and reduced code duplication Tools/technologies used: Oracle Exadata 12.2, IBM Netezza 7.2, 1, SQL, Python, 2.7, Quartz, Toad, Subversion, Git,Agile/SCRUM, JIRA, Jenkins, Git, various financial reporting metrics Database Developer (Consultant) Bloomberg LP - New York, NY June 2012 to November 2014 Developed OLTP and data warehouse parts of a sales support system (SQL Server 2008, Stored Procedures, Functions, Types, schema design, static and dynamic SQL, tens of million row tables, SVN source control, VS2010 database projects, VS2012 SSDT, ER Studio)  Improves performance of the legacy database objects (T-SQL)  Created a highly configurable, data driven ETL framework (T-SQL)  Developed web services (C#/.NET) and ETL scripts for UNIX (Perl/KSH) Database Developer (Consultant) UBS Investment Bank - Jersey City, NJ January 2008 to June 2012 Performed system and database design, front and back-end development for the application intentory system (MS SQL 2005/2008, C#, ASP.NET, SVN, data caching, stored procedures, etc)  • Data analysis, database and query design for the infrastructure efficiency system ( MS SQL 2000, T-SQL, UDF, Stored Procedures ) and for a spending tracking system ( ORACLE, PL/SQL, Packages, Stored Procedures )  • Data feeds (DTS, C#/.NET, Enterprise Library, AutoSys, SVN source control) SQL/.NET/Perl Developer (Consultant) Bank of America Securities - New York, NY March 2006 to November 2007 Designed and implemented a suite of management applications:  • Server Inventory system (several tens of thousands servers) to enable reconciliation of LOB server data with IT and Asset databases, ensuring proper service and charges (data modeling, query design, C#, ASP.NET, ADO.NET, T-SQL, SQL Server 2005, JavaScript, Infragistics WEB controls)  • Windows Administrative application for Server Inventory system - data entry, dynamic reconciliation reports (data modeling, query design, C#, threads, FORMS.NET, ADO.NET, Infragistics)  • Distributed log monitoring, retention, reporting and search application to help offload network and central storage by keeping application logs locally while providing convenient access to them (C#, C, OO Perl, pthreads, SOAP, T-SQL, Tibco RV)  Participated in Technical Architecture and Data Architecture activities:  • Participated in the planning and design of the Sybase IQ data warehouse  • Developed SQL schema analysis, schema generation and high-performance data migration tools. (Sybase IQ, Sybase ASE, OO Perl, SQL, a bit of C++)  • Implemented AutoSys JIL parser, database and GUI to visualize, manage and reconcile large AutoSys batch job configuration ( Perl, C#)  • Interacted with IT and System Engineering. Performed change reviews. Senior System Engineer UBS Financial Services, NJ July 2005 to March 2006 Engineered monitoring solutions (BMC products, Perl, Shell, C, SUN packages, RPM packages, CSV source control) for Solaris (8, 10), Red Hat Linux, AIX 5.x.  • Created system provisioning automation scripts in Perl and Shell Senior System Engineer (Consultant) AT&T Research, NJ May 2004 to July 2005 Engineered and built servers (SunFire V210, SunFire V490, StoreEdge 3310 disk arrays, Veritas VxVM, Legato Networker, Veritas NetBackup, security hardening, installation and monitoring scripts in Perl and KSH, CVS source control)  • Provided 24/7 production support for a commercial network traffic analysis application (about 30 Solaris 9 systems, Veritas VxVM, Sun Volume Manager, Apache, SSH, Perl, TCL, HP OpenView NNM)  • Provided installation, configuration and support for several Linux Red Hat Enterprise 3.0-based projects. Senior System Administrator (Consultant) Lucent Technologies October 2002 to May 2004 Designed a Web-based Test Database application to track test cases and test results (7000 lines in PERL/CGI, RedHat 9.0, PostgreSQL 7.3, Apache 2.0, CVS source control)  • Developed tools in Perl and Shell to facilitate system monitoring and database maintenance  • Performed system administration of over 100 HP, Sun and RedHat Linux servers and workstations  • Managed Storage Area Network (XP-256 disk array, Brokade switches) System Admin/Engineer EBS Dealing Resources, NJ September 2001 to October 2002 Proposed and implemented tools for fast and reliable system provisioning (2000 lines in Perl and Shell)  • Designed, documented, built and supported Solaris systems and clusters  • Helped co-workers with problem analysis, design decisions and use of UNIX tools and scripting languages. Performed troubleshooting of complex network and Oracle connectivity issues. Provided 3-rd level support to remote production sites. Maintained DNS for the test/development environment. Senior System Administrator American Standard April 2001 to August 2001 Integrated SAP R/3 with third-party label printing software (Loftware LPS, 1000 lines in C and Perl)  • Created monitoring scripts (Perl, Sendmail, CVS source control, rdist and KSH)  • Managed application servers (Solaris 2.6, DiskSuite 4.2, Informix Online) Senior System Administrator Lucent Technologies May 2000 to March 2001 Integrated Replicon time-reporting software with Lucent Payroll, using Perl, C, and Connect: Direct on Windows NT 4.0 Server. (about 5500 lines in C and Perl, CVS source control)  • Developed utilities and custom data interfaces for UNIX and NT 4.0 (C, Perl, TCL, Expect, Shell; SQL).  • Performed administration of department computer resources. Please see the October'2002-May'2004 period for details. System Engineer Graphnet Inc September 1999 to March 2000 Performed administration of Solaris 2.6, Oracle 8.0.5, remote installations overseas  • Analyzed and fixed bugs in the proprietary messaging system. (C++, SQL)  • Organized release process, night builds and reporting (Apache, Perl, XML/XSL, ClearCase) System/Performance Engineer AT&T, NJ December 1998 to August 1999 Developed performance tests with Segue Silk Performer, KSH, AWK and PERL  • Performed daily administration of Solaris and HP-UX servers System Engineer Sun Microsystems Inc - ?????? February 1998 to December 1998 Pre-sale engineering, architecture, configurations, presentations  • Specialized in SAP R/3 solutions. Has been certified as SAP Basis Consultant Project Engineer Bull S.A - ?????? July 1997 to January 1998 Prepared technical proposals. Analyzed requirements, provided capacity planning, system and network design. Russia Sys Engineer/Team Leader DataX/FLORIN, Inc - ?????? January 1993 to June 1997 As a leader of team of 4-7, designed and implemented Native Language Support (NLS) extension to UNIX systems. This commercially successful product provided Russian language support for X11, character terminals, printers and e-mail, and was backed by the documentation and technical support (C, Make, SH/CSH, AWK, SED, NROFF)  • Provided Informix DBA consulting and training. Programmer ASTeCH JV January 1992 to January 1993 Ported a mechanical CAD system to X11 on the proprietary Motorola-based UNIX station (C, FORTRAN, Xlib, X11R5) Russia System Administrator ALMAZ - ?????? February 1989 to January 1992 Managed a VAX/VMS cluster; developed extensions to a CAD system with FORTRAN. Education B.S.E.E. in Engineering, Electronics, and Automation Moscow State Institute for Radio - ?????? 1989 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Database Development: MS SQL 2000-2008, Oracle, Sybase IQ, PostgreSQL  Programming Languages: T-SQL, PL/SQL, C#/.NET, OO PERL, KSH, JavaScript  System Engineering and Administration: Solaris, HP-UX, Linux