Head of IT Head of IT Information Security, IT Architecture and Operations, System Administration, Network Administration Panama City, FL I have over 25 years of professional experience and over 30 years of personal experience with computers, networking, information security (with DoD security clearance), programming, and related technologies.    I also have over 20 years of experience managing IT, development, and operations groups ranging from small teams of 7 or less to large departments / small companies of 40-50.    While a large portion of my career has been spent in management and team lead positions, I am a geek at heart and I also thoroughly enjoy the opportunity to be a hands-on individual contributor / team member. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Head of IT ActivTrades - Sofia, BG 2016 to 2017 Responsible for the global IT infrastructure and staff, and the Chairman of the IT Committee. Responsible for migrating and improving the cloud based trading platform. Also responsible for preparing the organization to become a bank under the Bank of England including planning and building the new banking infrastructure, improving Information Security, and ISO 27001 certification. Lead the teams to improve platform performance under extremely bursty traffic loads, and lead the Business Continuity Planning / Disaster Recovery (BCP/DR) to achieve maximum up- time and lowest Recovery Time Objective (RTO). Additionally worked with development and operations teams to improve monitoring and alerting for the network, servers, and applications. Ruby on Rails Developer Software Society - Sofia, BG 2015 to 2016 Providing development and support for Internet Banking customer. Implementing both front and back end solutions including web interfaces in a Behavior-Driven Development environment. Primarily responsible for developing the Community interface and related interactions with the core banking systems. Technologies used include Ruby on Rails, SQL, Cucumber, and Travis CI. Other responsibilities include supporting other development teams with operations coverage. Senior Python Developer Melon - Sofia, BG 2013 to 2015 Team leader and primary customer point of contact for Melon customers. Serving customers primarily in the gaming industry with solutions for front and back end, including custom clients, web interfaces, and content management systems. Technologies used include Python, Django, SQL, JavaScript, CSS and other related technologies. Also responsible for mentoring junior developers and training/managing interns. Senior Linux Developer euroNAS - Sofia, BG 2012 to 2013 Responsible for architecture, project management, development and support of a NAS appliance operating system and web based interface. Debian based operating system with custom installation interface and media with private repository and packaging. Development in various scripting languages, HTML, JavaScript, Python and C. Created project management work flow, and supported company internal and remote servers. Provided remote customer support and problem resolution. Also supported English language marketing efforts. Owner Earth Shine - International 2011 to 2012 Software, systems, information security and architecture consulting to international clients. Department Head M-tel - Sofia, BG 2010 to 2011 Lead Business Systems Support Department which provides operational support for all M-tel business applications. Tasked with expanding and transforming the department to provide better support and additional resources to assist with the transition from the previous billing system to the new Amdocs billing system. Providing Billing for all M-tel customers, CRM/OMS/Cashier for all M-tel and affiliate shops, CTI/PBX/800 for all inbound and outbound customer calls, and SAP for the entire Telekom Austria Group composed of 9 companies in 7 countries. Also responsible for all related CAPEX, OPEX, and personnel budgeting. Director of Research and Development Soft Tech - Sofia, BG 2009 to 2010 Lead Research and Development efforts for the affiliate networking system which services the top online gambling companies in the industry. Provided long term strategic goals and short term tactical solutions to meet the highly dynamic and rapidly expanding needs of the customer base. Management and mentoring of all technical teams and staff members including technical leadership and professional development for Java, QA, PHP, IT, UI, Support, and Technical Writers. Additionally responsible for general administrative and budgeting tasks. Partner The Sphere OOD - Sofia, BG 2007 to 2009 Country manager for software, systems, and architecture consulting and research company providing a wide range of services to customers and partners. Chief Technical Officer DobroSoft, Ltd - Sofia, BG 2006 to 2007 Charged with providing technical leadership, and improving the software development and production environment for a high volume Online Poker Network implemented with a client/server architecture consisting of game servers, back office suite, cashier services, and web services for integration with external partner systems. Additional responsibilities include researching new strategies and technologies to further improve the current product line and set strategic goals for future development. Planning and budgeting to meet business goals. Management and mentoring of all technical teams and staff including development teams, quality assurance, technical support, and system administration. Improving internal operations, procedures, security, systems and networking to improve performance, scalability and reliability. Software Architect Tumbleweed Communications Corp - Sofia, BG 2005 to 2006 Lead the Research Team investigating various emerging technologies and evaluating their applicability to current and future software development goals. Performing analysis and investigation of out-of-the-box strategies for optimizing and improving the performance of current products resulting in dramatic performance increases. Creating and distributing formal documentation for presentation to internal management and development teams. Working with internal teams for application of research to current products. Director of Information Security LendingTree, Inc - Charlotte, NC 2001 to 2005 Created Information Security Department for LendingTree, Inc. Tasked with bringing the organization from a startup state to a state of managed risk.  Responsible for all aspects of Information Security including:  ? Corporate strategy  ? Risk management  ? Policy and procedures  ? Investigations  ? Intrusion detection  ? New technology review and approval  ? Source code reviews  ? Security tool software development  ? Perimeter architecture  ? Firewall policy review and approval  ? Security posture assessments  ? Preparation coordination and follow up for third party audits  ? Hiring and mentoring information security staff  ? Training and information security awareness for other departments  ? Vulnerability and virus monitoring and alerting  ? Physical security architecture. Internet Outbound Channel Owner First Union National Bank (Wachovia / Wells Fargo) - Charlotte, NC 2000 to 2001 Services provided to the corporation include Internet E-Mail (sendmail/smtpd) for 60,000+ employees, outbound proxy/cache with content filtering for 40,000+ employees, all external and DMZ DNS for multiple secondary and tertiary domains, and NTP services for DMZ and Intranet use. (all services provided with geographic distribution and fail-over) Responsible for Internet Outbound channel: security, design, implementation, performance, expansion, budgeting, change control, investigations support, and building/mentoring Internet Outbound team. Technologies used to deliver Internet Outbound services include: firewalls, routers, switches, enterprise class servers, RAID, and LAN/WAN connectivity. Improved security posture through process changes, configuration management, documentation, and security posture assessments. Intrusion Detection Manager First Union National Bank (Wachovia / Wells Fargo) - Charlotte, NC 1999 to 2000 Responsible for developing and executing Intrusion Detection Capability for First Union, and for oversight of Network Security Services Information Security Policy, Procedures, and Posture. Charged with architecting and implementing Intrusion Detection in time for Y2K rollover, from design and implementation to monitoring and building/mentoring the Intrusion Detection team. Duties included Intrusion Detection management, incident response, expert technical and security assistance to NSS teams, development of NSS Standards, DMZ security architecture, development of NSS security lockdown configurations for servers and network hardware, assessment of NSS security posture, vulnerability research, and security product reviews. Ethical Hacker First Union National Bank (Wachovia / Wells Fargo) - Charlotte, NC 1996 to 1999 Responsible for developing and executing the role of Ethical Hacker for First Union. Duties include security posture assessments, security reviews, source code reviews, CERT program management, vulnerability research, security product reviews, formal security policies, war dialing, DMZ security architecture and active network monitoring, network security compliance program management, expert technical assistance to investigations team, and system administration. Member of the High Tech Crime Investigation Association. Technical Architect First Union National Bank (Wachovia / Wells Fargo) - Charlotte, NC 1996 to 1996 Responsible for overall technical architecture of the Cyberbanking development effort. Cyberbanking was the first full featured online banking application. Duties include security and performance architecture, technology research, network architecture design, and planning, implementation of network level encryption, stress testing of the production environment, and system administration. Director Of Operations Sapien - Kalamazoo, MI 1995 to 1996 Responsible for all aspects of start-up and ongoing development of an Internet Service Provider company. Duties include budgeting, designing and implementing the network, hiring and managing technical staff, developing Internet services (WWW, Mail, News, FTP, IRC, Real-Audio), planning and implementing security, credit card processing, developing custom reporting software, and system administration. Owner Earth Shine - Michigan 1991 to 1996 Consulting services include: Internet installation, configuration, and maintenance, WWW design, database programming, local area networking, software installation and training, traditional security systems, and video monitoring systems. Information Systems Administrator Edward Lowe Foundation - Cassopolis, MI 1993 to 1995 Responsible for managing the Information Systems staff, including project scheduling, budgeting, reporting, staff training, new project development, and system administration. Responsible for developing Internet based resources of information and application software accessible through a distributed computing environment, including: WWW, Fulcrum FullText (and related document processing databases), UMI ProQuest (delivery via fax), fax on demand, and BBS. All services made accessible both through the Internet and dial-up, with online credit card processing. Computer Services Technician Rose-Hulman Institute of Technology - Terre Haute, IN 1990 to 1991 Responsible for network installations, trouble-shooting, computer maintenance and repair. 31C Radio Teletype (Ratt) United States Army - Babbenhausen, Germany 1988 to 1989 Ratt team leader responsible for transmitting and receiving classified documents in battle-field environments. Secret Security Clearance for encrypted communications, cryptographic materials handling procedures, physical security procedures, and sensitive document disposal. Education Computer Engineering Rose-Hulman Institute of Technology - Terre Haute, IN Certified ISO 27001 Lead Auditor Bywater - Cheltenham, PA Communications and Networking United States Army - Fort Gordon, GA Computer Science / Honors College Western Michigan University - Kalamazoo, MI Skills Penetration testing (10+ years), Information Security (10+ years), Management / Mentoring (10+ years), Ethical Hacking (10+ years), Network Architecture (10+ years), System Administration (10+ years), Linux (10+ years), Unix (10+ years), Project Management (10+ years), Software Development (10+ years), Intrusion Detection System (IDS) (10+ years), Intrusion Protection System (IPS) (10+ years), Firewalls (10+ years), Vulnerability Assessment (10+ years), Vulnerability Management (10+ years), Cybercrime Investigation (10+ years), macOS (10+ years), OS X (10+ years), Virtualization (10+ years), KMS (10+ years), Vmware (10+ years), Cloud (10+ years), Cloud Computing (10+ years), Amazon Web Services (AWS) (10+ years), Microsoft Azure (10+ years), Google (10+ years), DevOps (10+ years), Disaster Recovery (DR) (10+ years), Business Continuity Planning (BCP) (10+ years), E-commerce (10+ years), Financial Services (10+ years), Enterprise Architecture (10+ years), Perimeter Architecture (10+ years), Networking (10+ years), Network Administration (10+ years), IT Strategy (10+ years), Strategic Planning (10+ years), Innovation (10+ years), Process Improvement (10+ years), Leadership (10+ years), Team Building (10+ years), Budgeting & Forecasting (10+ years), Mergers & Acquisitions (10+ years), IT Management (10+ years), Management / Mentoring (10+ years), Vendor Management (10+ years), Contract Negotiation (10+ years), Program Management (10+ years), Project Management (10+ years), IT Service Management (ITSM) (10+ years), Information Security Management (ISM) (10+ years), ServiceNow (10+ years), ISO 27001 (10+ years), Software Development (10+ years), Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) (10+ years), Offshore Software Development (10+ years), Continuous Integration (10+ years), Continuous Delivery (10+ years), Python (10+ years), Ruby (10+ years), Bash (10+ years), Csh (10+ years), Scripting (10+ years), Django (10+ years), Ruby on Rails (10+ years), Rails (10+ years), Version Control (10+ years), Source Code Management (10+ years), Git (10+ years), SVN (10+ years), Subversion (10+ years), Agile & Waterfall Methodologies (10+ years), ZFS (10+ years), Solaris (10+ years) Links https://tido.com Military Service Branch: Army Service Country: United States Rank: E3 1988 to 1989 31C Radio Teletype (Ratt) - Ratt team leader responsible for transmitting and receiving classified documents in battle-field environments. Secret Security Clearance for encrypted communications, cryptographic materials handling procedures, physical security procedures, and sensitive document disposal. Commendations: ? Army Commendation Medal for placing 2nd in the All Germany Ratt Rodeo  ? Army Achievement Medal for achieving top score in the Brigade for the Ratt MOS Awards Information Security Division MVP Received First Union Information Security Division MVP award for the Cyberbanking Security Review Army Commendation Medal Received Army Commendation Medal for placing 2nd in the All Germany Ratt Rodeo Army Achievement Medal Received Army Achievement Medal for achieving top score in the Brigade for the Ratt MOS Honors College Honors College Western Michigan University Certifications/Licenses ISO 27001 Lead Auditor CCSA CCSE CCNA HIGH TECHNOLOGY CRIME INVESTIGATION ASSOCIATION (HTCIA) Additional Information Skills Overview    I have the ability to communicate both verbally and in written form to a wide range of technical and non-technical audiences including customer and partner facing roles.    Expert UNIX sysadmin with over 20 years of experience starting with Linux 0.9 in 1993 including contributions to Arch, Gentoo, and ZFS on Linux.    I have extensive information security experience ranging from highly technical programming and packet analysis to high level architecture and policy/procedure creation in environments that spanned from battlefield encrypted communications to top ten financial institutions.    I have significant experience in performing investigations and computer forensics, and in working with legal council and law enforcement agencies.    I have an extensive background in Internet/Intranet related technology, architecture, programming.    I am as comfortable performing technical work as I am delivering the results in a business relevant context.    I enjoy mentoring teams and individuals.    I am well versed in the complete technology life cycle from design and implementation to maintenance and enhancement.    Operating Systems:  ? UNIX Linux, Solaris, HP-UX, Sun OS, IRIX, NeXTSTEP  ? Microsoft Windows 8/7/XP/2003/2000/NT/DOS  ? Macintosh Mac OS, Mac OS X    Security Technologies:  ? Firewall / VPN Check Point, netfilter/iptables, smtpd, ssh, multi-factor authentication  ? Intrusion Detection Snort, Network Flight Recorder, Real Secure,  Custom  ? Penetration Testing Hacker and Professional Tools, Internet Scanner, System Scanner, Nessus, Custom  ? Network Router and switch ACL's with logging, Sniffers, Packet Analysis, DCE/DFS, Cylink  ? Content SmartFilter, Antivirus, Anti-spam    Network Technologies:  ? LAN Routers, Switches, 802.1d, 802.1q, Cabling  ? WAN ASN, T3, T1, Fractional, Frame Relay, ISDN, POTS  ? Wireless LAN 802.11 a/b/g/n    Applications:  ? Internet DNS/bind, Sendmail, NTP, FTP, NNTP  ? Web Servers Nginx, Apache, Netscape Enterprise, IIS  ? Proxy/Cache Servers SQUID, Netscape  ? Reverse Proxy Servers Nginx, Netscape    Programming:  ? Scripting Shell, Python, Ruby, HTML, PERL, Batch  ? Languages C/C++, ADA, Assembly (various architectures)  ? Web Django, Ruby on Rails  ? Database MySQL, Oracle, Access, FoxPro  ? Version Control git, Mecurial, Subversion, CVS