Senior Software Engineer / Senior Systems Engineer / WSUS Administrator / Ansible Developer Senior Software Engineer / Senior Systems Engineer / WSUS Administrator / Ansible <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Software Engineer / Senior Systems Engineer / WSUS Administrator / Ansible Developer El Cajon, CA Over 25 years experience in VM management, software development, test automation, web design and development, software and system testing, technical writing, PC hardware modification / prototyping / building, operations, management, and personnel training as a Senior Software Engineer/Senior Systems Engineer at C3Networx. Senior Software Engineer/Senior Test Automation Engineer/Senior Test Engineer/ Python Software Engineer at LP3. Senior Software Engineer, Software Test Manager, Systems Engineer, Ada/C/C++/PowerBuilder Programmer, Web Designer/ Developer, HTML/Javascript Programmer, Technical Writer/Analyst at SAIC. And Systems Manager at Evaluation Systems.  I am a self-starter who has always received the maximum allowable wage increases and outstanding review ratings, been retained through layoffs and austerity programs, and been promoted above senior peers. I have been the motivating force behind teams of from 2 to 18 people, and am considered by upper management to be a team player who can develop a positive rapport and maintain a professional working relationship with anyone. I am goal oriented, and believe that everyone has an important part in the success of the organization. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Software Engineer / Senior Systems Engineer / WSUS Administrator / Ansible Developer C3 Networx - San Diego, CA March 2016 to April 2017 March 2016 to April 2017  Space and Naval Warfare (SPAWAR) Systems Center Pacific (SSCPAC) - Joint Space Operations Center (JSpOC) Mission System (JMS) program: Create/clone/configure/manage/import/export VMware vSphere VMs. Apply Configuration Change Requests (CCRs)/Integration Configuration Change Requests (iCCRs), Operating System updates/hotfixes, and 3rd party software patches to various virtual environments with up to 78 RedHat Enterprise Linux (RHEL), Windows Server 2012, and CentOS Virtual Machines (VMs). Create JMS User and Administrator Accounts. Assist Data Base team with DB backups. Create/manage/modify Web Services Description Language (WSDLs) Layer 7 Policies. Provide SQI support during test events. Automate installation of Windows OS/3rd party patches using Windows Server Update Services (WSUS). Automate installation of Windows OS/3rd party patches using Ansible.    Key Accomplishments:  • Improved the OS/3rd party monthly patching process timeline from 5+ days to 1½ days, over multiple VM environments.  • Improved the CCR/iCCR Tracking system by adding columns to track additional completion parameters.  • Implemented a WSUS disconnected client-server system. Including VM cloning, WSUS installation, Client GPO / Server option configuration, client registration to server, patch/hotfix download to server, patch/hotfix installation. Self-taught WSUS.  • Wrote comprehensive WSUS Client/Server Installation, Configuration and Troubleshooting User Manual which covers every WSUS capability.  • Created Ansible Process Map - Details end to end process from cloning VM to applying OS patches. Self-taught Ansible.  Apps Used: Active Directory Users and Computers, ActiveMQ, DNS Manager, Group Policy Editor, Group Policy Manager, JIRA, JMS Configuration Editor, JMS CoreServices, Layer 7 Policy Manager, Openfire, Powershell, Putty, SoapUI, SQL Developer, User Account Control Settings, VMware Administrator, VMware vSphere, WebLogic Server - Managed Servers, WSUS - System Center Configuration Manager/System Center Updates Publisher Senior SW Test Automation Engineer / SpiraTest Administrator / Python SW Engineer LP3 - San Diego, CA November 2013 to January 2016 Black Wolf - AGILE program: create Automated Testing scripts using eggPlant Functional/SenseTalk; Perform witnessed SAT testing, running both automated and manual test procedures; Install and configure SpiraTest; Troubleshoot and repair Python scripts which ingest Comma Separated Values (CSV) files onto a classified system.    Key Accomplishments:  • Created automated testing scripts using eggPlant Functional/SenseTalk. Self-taught the SenseTalk language. Presented a successful customer demo of four completed scripts after 3½ weeks. Created over 15,000 new Lines of Code (LOC). Created and presented a two day, 180 slide PPT, Advanced SenseTalk Programming course. Created and presented eggPlant Functional Brown Bag.  • Installed and configured eggPlant Performance. Responsible for saving BAE $20,000 by arranging a free license.  • Created and ran new test procedures for new capabilities each month.  • Installed and configured SpiraTest Test Manager. Imported all User Stories/Incidents from JIRA. Created a custom Requirements Verification Traceability Matrix (RVTM) report. Completed less than 1 month after starting to self-teach SpiraTest. Three other associates were unable to complete this task in over 9 months.  • Installed the Jenkins/eggPlant plugin. Configured and ran a Jenkins/eggPlant job, with results available in Jenkins. Completed 3 weeks after starting to self-teach Jenkins. A senior associate was unable to complete this task in over 3 months.  • Researched User Stories and entered over 300 Discrepancy Reports (DRs) into JIRA. Exported Excel of all User Stories and DRs for import into SpiraTest.  • Performed Troubleshooting and repair of Python scripts which ingest CSV file data onto a classified system. Added extensive logging and fixes. Completed 3 weeks after starting to self-teach the Python language. I was told that everyone who had been associated with this task was running away as fast as they could, wanted their name disassociated with it, and that it was impossible. Several other "experienced" developers were unable to complete this task in over 4 months.  • Completed Professional Scrum Master 1 Assessment Preparation Class (AGILE).  • Completed RedHat System Administrator I course. Senior Software Engineer / PowerBuilder Software Developer Science Applications International Corporation - San Diego, CA April 2009 to November 2013 April 2009 to November 2013  Implement Electronic Key Management System (EKMS) Tier 1 software Problem Change Report (P/CR) fixes for the Tier 1 Human-Machine Interface (HMI). Implement new screens which interface with the Key Management Infrastructure (KMI). Implement new screens and new functionality based on customer need. Write external Stored Procedures in PL/SQL which access database capabilities.  Key Accomplishments:  • Wrote custom code which solved difficult problems not supported by built in PowerBuilder methods.  ? Implemented a local report generator, print capability, query by date range.  • Wrote several new internal white papers which document system operations including "Setting Access Levels" and "Implementing Print Report Capability".  • Completed project Software Development Folder (SDF) documentation.  • Wrote new P/CRs upon identification of new problems/changes.  • Self-taught PowerBuilder, the C++ based PowerScript language, and PL/SQL.  • Self-taught Java SE 6.0, Java SE7. Senior Systems Engineer / Software Test Manager Science Applications International Corporation - San Diego, CA October 2006 to April 2009 Write and evaluate program documents, perform requirements analysis, and manage test team activity, for Key Management Infrastructure Capability Increment - 2 (KMI CI-2).  Key Accomplishments:  • Wrote key sections of the System/Sub-System Design Description (SSDD), including detailed descriptions of the test lab environment, the RBAC Model, roles used, and the Testing Concept of Execution, including Test Scenarios.  • Wrote the Software Test Plan (STP), Cryptographic Verification Plan & Procedures/Security Verification Test (CVPP/SVT) and Software Test Description (STD).  • Performed requirements analysis of the System/Sub-system Specification (SSS). Derived SSS requirements in order to bring high level requirements in line with program capabilities.  • Evaluated test methods assigned to each requirement in order to ensure that requirements are adequately tested.  • Performed analysis and modification of the Test & Evaluation Master Plan (TEMP) in order to evaluate whether testing constraints are imposed, assess possible issues and risks to testing, and extract requirements.  • Managed all testing activities including preparation of test procedures, creation and presentation of Test Readiness Review (TRR), formal witnessed testing, metrics collection and use, and test related reporting.  • Attended Earned Value Management System (EVMS) training.  • Self-taught the Department of Defense Architecture Framework (DoDAF) and Internal Business Machines (IBM) Rational System Developer.  • Performed Trade Studies in order to identify COTS products that may be used with the program. Software Test Manager / Senior Systems Engineer / DOORS Administrator Science Applications International Corporation - San Diego, CA September 2002 to October 2006 September 2002 to October 2006  Manage all test team activity for the EKMS Tier 2 Common User Application Software (CUAS) program, and six Tier 3 programs, including all tasks associated with preparation for, and completion of multi-phased test cycles, post-test cycle status reporting and test procedure updates.  Key Accomplishments:  • Performed daily tracking of testing progress to ensure on-schedule performance of each tester.  • Completed weekly test status reports and final post-test report for each formal test cycle.  • Created/ran/modified/maintained software test procedures.  • Created Software Design Document (SDD).  • Installed project software applications on team member computers and tutored them on its use.  • Wrote difficult test procedure sections for other test team members.  • Administered DOORS requirements server, including user and group maintenance, creation of specialized views, publishing of DOORS requirements to external web server, database backups, server firewall exception, DOORS maintenance contract, Verisign Certification maintenance contract, and permissions maintenance.  • Self-taught the DOORS DXL scripting language.  • Self-taught XML. PowerBuilder Programmer / Software Test Engineer Science Applications International Corporation - San Diego, CA April 1999 to September 2002 April 1999 to September 2002  Implement EKMS Tier 1 software P/CR fixes for the Tier 1 HMI. Implement new screens and new functionality based on customer need. Write external Stored Procedures in PL/SQL which access database capabilities.  Key Accomplishments:  • Wrote custom code which added print capability that was not supported by built in PowerBuilder methods. Other developers said that this could not be accomplished.  • Added new functionality which required building new windows from scratch.  • Assisted with development of Mission Operator Training materials.  • Created/ran/modified/maintained software test procedures.  • Wrote new P/CRs upon identification of new problems/changes. Tested completed P/CRs.  • Self-taught PowerBuilder/PowerScript. Web Designer/ Developer / HTML/Javascript/C/C++ Programmer Science Applications International Corporation - San Diego, CA October 1996 to April 1999 October 1996 to April 1999  Develop and program the Web based Interactive Electronic Technical Manual (IETM) for the U.S. Navy's Link-16 communications system. Perform software and source file CM. Manage the MS Access database. Manage Client Review and Response (R&R) tracking and implementation. Create and Maintain Master CD library.  Key Accomplishments:  • Designed, developed, and maintained the IETM with 890 pages, and more than 4,000 Hyper Text Markup Language (HTML) links, graphics, and audio files.  ? The IETM includes generated Web pages tailored to user input, mouse overs, local search engine, pop-up windows and dialog boxes, Java executable launch controls, client side image maps, forms, and frames.  • Self-taught RoboHelp. Created Windows and HTML versions of RoboHelp context sensitive stand-alone help for the Tier 1 EKMS. Wrote detailed RoboHelp setup and operation procedures.  • Developed the Web based Trusted Software CBT with 150 pages, and more than 375 HTML links and graphic files.  ? Includes Javascript driven local testing with generated test questions, answer checking, test grading, and a generated status screen displayed after each module test. Also includes a first time user splash page, pop-up information windows and dialog boxes, generated progress tracking display, cheating traps, data retention, automatic restart at current module upon user log-on, dual threads for full and overview courses, and automatic cleanup / reset upon training completion, all using persistent Cookies.  • Developed the Computer Misuse Detection System (CMDS) marketing site.  • Designed and developed the Corporate Training CBT Web site.  ? Includes animated GIFs, client side image maps, embedded audio and video, nested frames, forms with JavaScript data checking, JavaScript menu redirect, and an Active Server Page (ASP) interface to an NT server for record entry and employee course completion information queries to an Access Database.  • Programmed Ada on the US Navy Range Encryption Module (REM) and Advance Message Oriented Data Security Module (AMODSM) programs.  • Wrote project documentation including the SRS, SDP, SDD, and STD.  • HTML coded SEPH procedures from hardcopy.  • Self-taught Ada.  • Self-taught Javascript. HTML Programmer, Senior Technical Writer/Analyst Science Applications International Corporation - San Diego, CA May 1995 to October 1996 Lead the Documentation Technology (DocTech) department Internet development team. Design and develop company division Internet and Intranet home pages. Redesign the Intranet and server directory structure for efficient usage, and to provide a consistent company identity across the Intranet. Author, update, and re-write documentation for various programs.  Key Accomplishments:  • Self-taught the TROFF text coding language, in order to code the PC division On-Line Help Manual.  • Co-authored the Kaiser Distributed Computing Infrastructure (DCI) Architecture Guide.  ? This contributed to on-time document delivery and award of another project.  • Wrote departmental procedures, meeting minutes, release notes, CDRL documents, user manuals, and interface guides.  ? All work was completed in accordance with SEI Level 3 requirements.  • Acquired advanced writing experience from authoring, analyzing and rewriting, editing, validating, and performing final checks on many different documents.  • Responsibilities have included extensive information gathering, research, information analysis, writing, reference library creation and maintenance, document re-formatting and style application, and version control.  • Attended the "Management Skills Modules" seminar series.  • Self-taught MUMPS.  • Self-taught HTML. Systems Manager ESI - El Cajon, CA March 1993 to May 1995 Develop and build prototype, manufacture a mobile computer system for real time monitoring of fatigue in professional long-haul truck drivers. The need for a diversity of product components at ESI enabled me to excel in software engineering as well as expand my variety of technical talents.  Key Accomplishments:  • Extensive "C" programming experience in both text and graphics modes. This experience was acquired from writing many software applications.  • Participated in the writing of the main software product which contributed to successful, on-time program completion and elimination of a $1,000 graphics board and leased software.  • Wrote the "shell" program which administers and scores a four task test battery, and two of the test applications, the Psychomotor Vigilance task and the Code Substitution task.  • Took development of the shell and two test applications from problem analysis, to analysis of "paper test" examples with no specifications, to project completion.  • Wrote an account database program which prints invoices and reports, a Goal Orientation application with graphics, animation, screen saver, file encryption and the accompanying installation program, and several small applications all of which include extensive in-line documentation.  • Originated and maintained a PARADOX database on company information, in-house and field test data, and vendor information with reports as needed, created bitmaps from scratch and from a FAX, translated between BASIC and "C" code, and performed ALPHA and BETA testing on product software.  • Software documentation administrator. Included software version control, maintenance of paper and backup disk copies, and writing software process flowcharts, program descriptions, and data file descriptions.  • Writer of company technical documentation, including proprietary mother board technical manual, user manual, wiring charts, data sheets, schematics, and parts list.  • Official personnel trainer and writer of the user training protocol.  • Designer and constructor of prototype wiring harnesses, cables, and converters.  • Writer of the associated wiring charts as well as technician in charge of hardware building, modification and troubleshooting. Education Certificate of Multi-Media Development Foundation College - San Diego, CA January 2011 Bachelor of Science in Computer Science National University - San Diego, CA Associate of Science in Computer Information Science Coleman College - San Diego, CA Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/john-sattler-2a6745112 Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Security+ November 2020 IAT II Linux, Windows Server 2012, Windows 7