Freelance Information Technology Work Freelance Information Technology Work Linux Administrator / DBA Kansas City, MO Information Technology professional for over 29 years. Though kind of a human "Swiss army  knife", have focused on Linux System Administration, Programming (including Java, Perl, Bash  and KSH Shell Scripting and other languages) and DevOps. The first commercial program was  written in high school using an Apple IIe and Apple BASIC. Wrote a mission critical ERP  application in 2007 for a client. Currently doing freelance consulting work as needed for a client  whose focus includes implementation of the Raspberry Pi computing platform and have done  work on this platform for two different personal clients. The goal has always been to make  technology accessible to all persons in an organization from the Upper Management to the  regular employee. This is done by completing projects on time and within budget on a consistent  basis. Work Experience Freelance Information Technology Work Self - Overland Park, KS June 2017 to Present • Network Engineer supporting small network with LAN and WAN TCP/IP  • Switch and Router Configuration  • Custom software development on Linux using the Raspberry Pi 3 platform  • Work part-time as needed. Contract PCI Compliance Engineer, United Missouri Bank, Kansas City, MO Infinity Consulting Solutions - New York, NY March 2017 to May 2017 • DBA work using IBM StoredIQ and DB2 products  • Documentation and Reporting of Processes to End Client.  • Working for prominent Bank doing data governance on PCI Compliance.  • Reporting on PCI data found during harvest of data servers.  • Technologies Used: Database, UNIX Admin, IBM Solutions, Technical Writing and reporting. Freelance Information Technology Work April 2015 to February 2017 • Worked on various projects.  • Technologies Used: PHP (LAMP), Database / DBA. Python, Java and Virtual Development  Environments. Contractor DevOPs Engineer, Great West Financial Compri Consulting - Denver, CO February 2015 to April 2015 • Monitored Builds of various projects on Jenkins in Java and Angular.js for all projects.  • Wrote Automation tasks in Perl on Solaris and UNIX for proprietary systems and performed  Administration.  • Use of JIRA, Confluence, GIT.  • Technologies Used: Java, CSS, Angular.js, Node.js, Jenkins, Documentation and Technical  Writing. Freelance Information Technology Work Lakewood, CO November 2013 to February 2015 11/2013 - 2/2015  • Took Broadcasting classes.    3 Contract VOD Support Engineer, Comcast I nsight Global - Littleton, CO September 2013 to November 2013 • Application support for Video-On-Demand (VOD) Services, monitored 101 apps.  • Helped with Launch of X1 Platform, Monitored Systems through Nagios.  • Work Tickets as assigned from IPCenter and Remedy Ticketing Systems.  • Responsible for resolution or escalation of problems encountered with the various proprietary  systems.  • Technologies Used: Linux, UNIX, BASH, Python, Documentation and Technical Writing,  Reporting. Contractor Ruby on Rails and Python Developer IBM - Boulder, CO March 2013 to June 2013 • Steady state support of HIP application included coding in Ruby and monitoring application.  • Use of RHEL at the desktop.  • Responsibilities include UNIX administration and scripting using BASH, Python and Ruby.  • Development and deployment of OSS software and modification of code for internal  purposes.  • Technologies Used: Linux, BASH, Python, Ruby(ROR), Documentation and Technical  Writing. Contractor DevOPs Engineer, Digital Globe Bridgeview IT - Longmont, CO September 2012 to January 2013 Support of internal applications in a secure environment for Satellite systems on the RHEL  platform.  • Had US Government Secret Clearance (debriefed in 2013)  • Use of SQL queries, UNIX administration (including administration of JBOSS and Tomcat  Servers), scripting and phone support for various Java applications.  • Required Government Secret Clearance (debriefed in 2013, not currently  active).Technologies Used: Perl, Java, UNIX, BASH, KSH, Jenkins, JBoss, Documentation and Technical Writing. Contract Developer for SourceCorp Midwest Consulting Group - Overland Park, KS December 2010 to March 2011 • Responsibilities included writing BASH shell and Perl scripts to improve efficiency of Fastrieve document processing system.  • Ran tests on environment for usability on an ongoing basis.  • Performed change requests on Groovy (Java) based system code.  • REGEX used to match the results of searches from reports.  • Technologies Used: Perl, Java, Groovy, UNIX, BASH, KSH, Technical Writing. Freelance Information Technology Work November 2009 to July 2010 Worked on MySQL project for client.    4    • Designed Databases  • Technologies Used: MySQL, PostgreSQL Software Application / Web Developer Prometheus, Inc - Topeka, KS March 2007 to November 2009 • Development of mission critical Enodia product (ERP/CRM) for clients.  • Consulted during the porting of Enodia software to C# from PHP.  • Sole developer of Enodia software for the KHA project.  • Developed interface for Sage Payment Gateway within Application.  • Maintained client websites written in PHP (MVC) and ColdFusion.  • Technologies Used: PHP, Symfony, Perl, Python, Ruby, Java, CSS, HTML, JavaScript,  MySQL, ColdFusion, UNIX, BASH, KSH, Sage Payment Gateway, Documentation,  Reporting and Technical Writing, Project Management. Broadcasting, writing, technical writing and Communications December 2000 to March 2007 Took classes in Broadcasting, writing, technical writing and Communications. Education Some College in IT ,/ Journalism Johnson County Community College - Overland Park, KS May 1989 to March 2017 Skills Java (5 years), Linux (4 years), PHP (4 years), Python (5 years), UNIX (4 years), Information Technology Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/jmikeneedham Certifications/Licenses Dante Level 1 - 3 Present Dante AoIP Networking. Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    • Excellent Communication both written and verbal.  • Superior communication and presentation abilities  • Ability to efficiently write clean and reusable code, use of Full SDLC, CI/CD tools (Jenkins).  • TCP/IP, VoIP, AoIP  • Understanding of Cisco Routers and Switches  • Ability to configure, build and Administer UNIX and Linux Servers, Strong Admin Skills  • Programming of Applications using SQL, Python (Flask), Perl, Java (Groovy), XML,  YAML, Node.js, Angular, Shell Scripting using BASH and KSH, Agile.  • Apache, Nginx, Wordpress, PHP, HTML5, CSS3  • Database Administration (MySQL, PostgreSQL, DB2, Oracle)    2