Lead Freelance Developer Lead Freelance <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Freelance Software Engineer (C2C and 1099 only) New York, NY Work Experience Lead Freelance Developer URBN Labs - New York, NY December 2017 to Present URBN Playground  • Designed and developed complex scheduling platform from scratch. Databases, back end algorithms  and APIs, notifications of various parties involved when schedules are created/changed. Scales to hundreds of thousands of users, and thousands of separate groups offering independent services.  • Designed and managed front end app developers.  • Designed and wrote CMS back end admin panel which applies live app updates.  • Stack is nginx/uWSGI/flask/postgresql and React Native for iOS/Android on AWS autoscaling groups. Senior Freelance Dev-Ops Engineer Dept. of Defense July 2018 to March 2019 Remote Terraform, Ansible and Packer maintenance and new features. Implementation of standalone  functionality to scan uploads for viruses, ensure secure FTP transfers, run scheduled jobs, and more.  • Cross between developer and dev-ops, doing whatever is required to complete the project. Senior Freelance Software Engineer University of Pennsylvania June 2018 to November 2018 On-site one day a week, remote work as needed, debugging a complex research project written in Python, deployed on AWS. Freelance IoT Engineer January 2017 to October 2018 BuldingLink  • Successfully developed inter-device communication and solved communication issues with Azure.  • Served as Linux System Admin and Dev-Ops on the Pi, MultiTech, Samsung Artik, and other small Intel  and ARM- based hosts.  • Rewrote ZigBee interface code, concurrent event handling, and I/O on the Rasaspberry Pi. Lead Contract Engineer Classroom Inc - New York, NY January 2017 to December 2017 • Rewrote entire product back-end from PHP to Python resulting in better growth and resilience.  • Improved performance and memory-resident inter-request processing.  • Trained a Junior Developer company on methods, tools and tactics.  • Saved company money by removing dependence on outdated support contract.  • Overhauled all system admin and dev-ops, security checks and changes in systems and code.    5/16 to 7/16 Independently Funded Resume Search Engine Project  • Compressed 5-week project to implement a resume indexing and search utility from scratch.  • Designed and implemented all server setup using nginx and uWSGI, dev-ops structure and configuration.  • Configured database using Postgresql, MongoDB and Elasticsearch for various data sets.  • Implemented entire Python Flask back-end, using a customized JWT authentication methodology. Senior Freelance Hands-On Software Engineer iMentor, Manhattan March 2014 to December 2016 Responsible for all system admin and security (load balancing, DOS attack prevention, traffic throttling,  other security measures and admin practices)  • Migrated away from Rightscale antiquated system to physical machines at a privately hosted site.  • Upgraded and bug fixed of current system while it's being tested in new environment.  • Provided guidance for overseas team in India responsible for lower-level testing tasks.  • Oversaw development of new parallel system comprised of new applications, new db models, new  security best practices, and new dev-ops/admin.  • Integrated system into the current DB model, changing model and data dependencies to follow best  practices.  • Wrote data analysis/stats reporting of current system using Pandas.  • Implemented MongoDB FIFO queues which pass triggers from new to legacy systems. Purify Inc June 2014 to October 2014 Freelance Software Developer and Advisory Role, Purify Inc.  • Ironed-out issues on EC2, S3, Route53, and other AWS services.  • Setup standards re: automated DB backups, continuous integration with Jenkins and cron, and overnight unit test executions on the master branch. Lead Freelance Software Developer RAB lighting, Chelsea April 2014 to October 2014 Manhattan  • Migrated away from Softlayer to AWS, deployment using Ansible resulting in a new design and development for API and SOAP related cellular data. Lead Part-time Freelance Software Developer New York, NY July 2013 to July 2014 • Complete model redesign and system admin and Moved client from Elastic Beanstalk to EC2.  • Migrated client away from DynamoDB to MySql, writing an advanced scheduler.  • Converted front end to AngularJS, with the current front-end developer. Lead Freelance Software Developer Library of Congress - Washington, DC July 2013 to March 2014 Django enhancements via AngularJS and tot a Flask/Varnish caching and authentication engine RAB lighting, Chelsea June 2012 to July 2013 Extensive Contract in Software Development for companies that include, RAB Lighting, a music  event company, and ipghoster.com. Freelance Software Developer Galleray.com February 2012 to June 2012 Lead developer on a four-person team and responsible for all system admin, project maintenance  under git, and most back-end development. Also set up virtual servers and load balancer. Freelance Software Developer Zeitbyte.com November 2011 to April 2012 Scaled their web video platform to help to help load balance their services with Apache. Tech Adviser, Freelance Software Developer ExamBuilder.com February 2012 to March 2012 Selected optimal Python3 HTTP engine/framework, and encryption tools for Exambuilder's new model. Freelance Software Developer LexxLearn.com September 2011 to January 2012 Contracted to do all system admin, design, and development on EC2 & S3. Freelance Software Developer FlatworldKnowledge.com December 2010 to September 2011 Rewrote entire book generation engine in CherryPy, lxml, MySql and Apache. Freelance Software Developer October 2010 to March 2011 independent education startup Part-Time Senior Developer System Administrator Rosenfeld Media - Brooklyn, NY August 2008 to August 2010 Part-time Freelance Software Developer New York, NY October 2009 to March 2010 Part-time Senior Designer, Developer, Project Planner Rosenfeld Media December 2008 to March 2010 Splidit (project) Part-Time Senior Developer and System Administrator Eleni's - Brooklyn, NY September 2009 to January 2010 Part-Time Senior Developer and Project Lead, nonprofit org Brooklyn, NY March 2008 to October 2009 Senior Project Lead and Developer, a small publishing firm May 2008 to October 2008 Manhattan Senior Python/JSON Programmer SitePen Inc January 2008 to March 2008 Senior Software Developer, contracting search company - Jersey City, NJ June 2007 to December 2007 Senior Designer and Developer TeamPatent - New York, NY September 2006 to June 2007 Technical Lead, Senior Software Designer, Developer and System Living Independently - New York, NY May 2005 to June 2007 Tropaion Inc October 2001 to October 2005 Extensive Contract Work for a range of industries of various sizes including UBS, Tropaion Inc,  NYK Logistics, SkyOptics, Reis Inc, and Telesciences. Further project details for this period available. Education BS in Computer Science/Mathematics City University of New York - New York, NY March 1975 Skills Amazon elastic compute cloud (1 year), Linux (1 year), Mongodb (3 years), Mysql (1 year), nginx (2 years) Additional Information SKILLS PROFILE  Project Examples Available    SPECIALTIES OPERATING • Mandrake  • Python (2.x and 3.x) SYSTEMS LINUX  • (Bourne, csh, ksh) • Latest Fedora • UNIX (HP- FRAMEWORKS  • AngularJS • Ubuntu UX, SunOS, OSF, • Django -  • C++ • Debian SVR4) • Flask  • C • CentOS • NT • gevent  • PERL • Red Hat • VxWorks • tornado  • PaaS/Hosting • pSOS+ • web.py  • cherrypy. bottle • fail2ban • Launchpad • elementtree  • zope. • denyhosts • subversion • BeautifulSoup  • AngularJS - • bash • fabric • twisted  Intermediate • EC2 • rcs • 2to3  • symphony • Elastic Beanstalk • Cvs  DATABASES  • ObjectTime • DynamoDB • sccs  • Extensive MongoDB  • S3 • ClearCase  ORMs/DBIs • ElasticSearch  • Route53 • make  • SqlAlchemy • Postgresql  • Softlayer • gnumake  • SqlObject • MySql experience  • Rackspace  • Django ORM TOOLS/PKGS • ZODB  • PHP Doctrine REVISION CONTROL • Pandas • SHORE  • psycopg2 • git • wxPython • Gemstone  • python-MySql • ant • TKInter • CTree  • mercurial • PyQT4 • Informix  SYS ADMIN/DEV OP  • bazaar • gevent • Sybase  • Apache -  • github • tornado  • Nginx  • bit bucket • lxml