Job Seeker Work Experience Personal Investing - Miami, FL January 2016 to Present Aggregating and cleansing data from 10-Q / 10-K listings on the EDGAR database while following up with corporate earning calls  ? Utilizing Excel and self developed Macros with information collected from various sources to make EPS projections as well as DCF  ? Valuation updates as new information is gained along side Risk/Reward updates  ? Developing a program for assessing public company finances by fetching values of interest from Financial statements ( Python/EDGAR), analyzing this new data set ( Excel/ Python), and then using this data to help make predictive investment decisions. Analyst & Developer Metamesh Inc - Miami, FL June 2018 to January 2019 Developed complex SQL queries involving JOINs and sub-queries to analyze user activity and gross merchandise value. These kinds of values were then used to optimize our marketing budget and set numerical goals.  ? Developed the front end of a social-online marketplace (Metamesh.io) using Javascript/HTML/ CSS/ Bootstrap/AWS within 3 months beating our expected development timeline by 3 month.  ? Developed a python web-scraping tool that would help online-retailers post all their products onto their Metamesh accounts. Quantitative Developer Python QwertySmash LLC - Miami, FL May 2018 to July 2018 Designed and developed a market cap weighted portfolio rebalancing tool using python and multiple API.  ? Designed and developed a trading algorithm that utilizes technical indicators such as trading volume, buy market percentage, and RSI values to assess entry and exit points into the market  ? Implemented a value averaging entrance algorithm which used what I called a "virtual stop loss". Education Bachelor of Science in Physics in Physics Florida International University - Miami, FL May 2017 Passed CFA Level 1 Exam CFA Institute - Miami, FL Skills CSS (Less than 1 year), Excel (3 years), HTML (Less than 1 year), Javascript (Less than 1 year), python (3 years) Additional Information SKILLS    Computer: SQL(postgresql), Python (Requests, NumPy, Pandas, SciPy, Matplotlib, SciKit-Learn, Seaborn, BeautifulSoup), Microsoft Office (Excel, Word, Power Point), Javascript (ReactJS), Git, NoSQL(mongoDB),  HTML, CSS    SoftSkill: Complex Problem Solving, Accountable, Meet Deadlines, Ability to Accept Criticism, Calm Under Stress