Data Analyst - SQL Server Excel VBA XML Salesforce (Jitterbit) SOQL Data Analyst - SQL Server Excel VBA XML Salesforce (Jitterbit) SOQL Data Analyst - SQL Server Excel VBA XML Salesforce (Jitterbit) SOQL - Becton Dickinson "Full service (from data to presentation) senior asset, possessing comprehensive IT experience primarily in the financial, industry;  Demonstrably successful in both analysis and execution during the requirements, design, and implementation phases of Agile/RAD" Work Experience Data Analyst - SQL Server Excel VBA XML Salesforce (Jitterbit) SOQL Becton Dickinson - New Providence, NJ January 2018 to Present • Successful data modeling/enrichment project that went to production on time and on budget.  • Learned Jitterbit middleware application to load data from SQL server to Servicemax cloud layer of salesforce.com  • Wrote API to test script data points before running large inserts or updates to salesforce.  • Wrote macro to enrich salesforce records with database notes and normalize data by serial number for capital equipment.  • Wrote SQL server queries to mirror the salesforce environment to provide the business with data to verify and fix.  • Loaded, queried, and delete over 500,000 records as well as mapped data from disparate systems (Oracle SQL developer) Senior Consultant. - SharePoint Excel VBA Python XML QlikView JP Morgan - Jersey City, NJ September 2017 to Present • Tasked to sync SharePoint to Oracle QlikView layer; achieved using ADODB VBA Text file then SQL API in rapid turnaround.  • Created Data Dictionary for SharePoint lists the data sync to work and converts the SharePoint list environment to a data table.  • Created data modification program for batch updates to SharePoint and ran them within 15 minutes for 3500 records per list.  • Paralleled office SharePoint 365 environment to Oracle to test connectivity due to access constraints to prove the API work.  • Emailed management and created new lists on the fly when the 5000-record (firm standard) threshold was met. (MAPI) (CAML)  • Created audit trail for suns and as hoc execution to track user and performance statistics as well as detailed result of changes.  • Created ad hoc list and field panel for end users to be able to execute their own SharePoint changes without adjusting code.  • Developed Rollback module to undo and changes to lists that did not modify the intended records before committing them.  • Created cron schedule task on auto open in VBA to execute the sync every other day as well as an audit trail of each run.  • Optimized code with array processing and took to the next level with multithreaded selenium wrapper to increase speed. Project Mgr./Construction Mgr Ericsson Mobile - Piscataway, NJ October 2016 to June 2017 SharePoint Excel VBA PowerPoint Outlook OCR SAP Python XML Tableau  Brought on to automate reporting and workflow for Northeast Site acquisition, Construction, and Performance Tuning  • Wrote program to replicate client PowerPoint Deck from backend client data that paralleled client to expand on daily reporting. This fostered new fiscal year business for Ericsson in other markets by illustrating better cycle times compared to competitors.  • Developed SharePoint automation w/excel svcs. to improve from monthly to daily true-up; vastly improved revenue turnaround.  • Automated process of emailed client updates by reading first cell of attachment, process to XML and FTP to client database.  • Wrote program to collect construction updates based on font attributes within cell values to determine re-forecasts and completes.  • Aggregated Red Amber Yellow status based on conditional formatting to determine eminent, upcoming and at-risk projects. Distributed this collection to user community to refocus team on project priorities via email by username.  • Automated SharePoint 365 uploads of client financial information on a monthly basis for tower reconciliation.  • Developed a Userform Panel drill up/down capability and type ahead search for open unreconciled tower projects.  • Developed rolling month to month "Lock" or client expectation metrics to quantify Ericsson surpassing them for the most part.  • Wrote macro to combine and normalize multiple SAP based spreadsheets to a final dataset for executive consumption.  • Reconciled disparate reports for systems that were temporally discordant for clarity of data integrity across teams.  • Successful construction manager certification in the 90th percentile after completing over twenty courses and exams. Prestige Brands St. Louis - St. Louis, MO March 2017 to March 2017 Excel VBA Pivot automation  • Automated excel VBA process that was overly manual to one click of a button for the improved end-user experience  • Automated pivot table refresh because of linked parameters between several sheets in a workflow sequence. Freelance Work June 2016 to November 2016 Excel VBA Selenium Python  Tasked to produce web scraping scripts for over 100 sites and oversee migration of large datasets.  • Automated excel VBA Python programs to web mine data from public domain sites to build company tables.  • Benchmarked HTML, JavaScript, Selenium, and Beautiful Soup solutions after settling on multi-threaded VBA solution.  • Engineered VBA that topped out at 100 sites per script before crashing and found solution that penetrated over 6500 sites per run.  • Engineered solution was already parsed and stripped of extraneous HTML and ready for upload into PostgreSQL DB.  • Subdivided multithread for loops that spawned over 25 concurrent and asynchronous threads to handle high volumes of big data.  • Used Python URLlib2 and R scripts as comparable web-mining benchmarks before going with native Excel to one stop the task.    • Wrote alternate script to penetrate portals that had nonspecific links to mine non-formed HTML into usable data.    • Constructed Craigslist, Yelp, Zillow, and trade association web data to generate leads generation for the CRM as well.    • Optimized array based solution that minimized constant I/O hits to deposit large data from memory to cell ranges in one step. Excel VBA MS Access SQL server server/SharePoint 365 Developer/Administrator National Institute for the Psychotherapies - New York, NY February 2016 to June 2016 Triaged the situation were claims revenues were stopped and candidate confidence was low and successfully restored the confidence in the data as well as closed all revenue gaps to the satisfaction of my direct reports as well as the Board of Directors.  • Automated excel VBA MAPI programs for Supervisors and candidates respectively to replace manual process.  • Used HTML and CSS to manipulate tables within VBA for emails with bolds, italics, and paragraph tags.  • Restored data confidence, application accountability with measurable and cross-verified statistics.  • Ramped up nights and weekends on any knowledge gaps at my own expense to build client integrity.  • Replaced developer with a spider web of risky programs as well as claims programs that stopped working.    • Fixed SQL server programs in SSMS contributing to the above problem by adjusting misused keywords.    • Fixed pass-through Access/SQL server relations ships as well as decommissioning arcane code.    • Wrote VBA print API for large remuneration print jobs that reflected accurate by appointment records with high-water mark session thresholds and session note requirements necessary for payment to students.    • Fixed monthly and school year to date remuneration programs.100 % level of accuracy based on business rules.    • Reconciled QuickBooks payouts to Access remunerated data with VLOOKUP and excel subtotals for big data    • Applied top down formatting to match previous report look and feel for end user continuity.    • Used Web Services API to leverage KAREO medical software with SOAP, WSDL, and XML in C# and VBA.    • Both GET/PUT request/response broker services were leveraged for initial data population and reports.    • Troubleshooter for company website formatting and general aid for student HIPPA board requirements.    • Created ad-hoc access queries for board of director, management, and operations consumption.    • Fixed SharePoint form and view decimal formatting issues as well as syncing web parts timer program.    • Fixed Access/SharePoint cron jobs for printing patient balances daily and minute program from SP server.    • SQL server/Access cron job that updated task timers table with statuses that were unsuccessful until I fixed.    • Fixed SharePoint data and duplication issues caused by unattended processes that failed as time passed. RAD Reports Developer JP Morgan - New York, NY November 2015 to January 2016 Excel VBA COM SharePoint Dev - MS-Project, Visio, PowerPoint  • Brought in to automate PMO tools for Phoenix to Force Migration for the firm wide remediation initiative.  • Developed project risk metrics based on MS-Project duration algorithm and end date to mitigate scope creep.  • Developed and deployed automated COM Excel/SharePoint MS-Project reconciliation late-binding one click.  • Developed Exec Deck to Integrated Plan automation recon using PowerPoint Word and Excel VBA  • Created QC checker for Project Recon with Match, VLOOKUP, and color filter for 100% accuracy.  • Added ActiveX dropdowns for before and after files for manual and automated option contrast.  • Refreshed, rebuilt and adjusted pivots data source on the fly using VBA with dynamic table.  • Synchronized non-dependency tasks with SharePoint and dependency tasks using VBA due to non-FS sync error.  • Used C++ DLL to download files from specific folders in SharePoint extending VBA through COM.  • Parsed download to only retrieve sanctioned files with YYYYMMDD nomenclature without dashes.  • Created Swim Lane Agile models for team, illustrating client Ask and value add from my perspective.  • Created Pivot tables to illustrate RAG items that will are trending in the wrong direction for PM follow up.  • Normalized MS-Project hierarchies based on unique task ID in table ready data for pivot consumption.  • Created Kick-out and Kicked In delta reports for Integrated Plan reconciliation for tasks added or dropped.  • Created at-a-glance dashboard of recon gaps for RAG, Start, End, and "Re-plan" dates to check scope.  • Wrote custom excel function to convert RAG numbers to values with case statement. Business Systems Analyst, Reports Specialist, SharePoint Dev Barclays - New York, NY April 2015 to August 2015 • Developed automated Excel/SharePoint Status report for the IB group with VBA via IE object model.  • Prior source failed to produce in 6 months; executed 2X as much in 3 months from scratch and trained staff.  • Manipulated HTML code to isolate the raw data within JavaScript, TD tags and arrays for download.  • Illustrated risk metrics for solutions to be on time and on budget for a hard date and successful deployment.  • Provided drill down summary/detail hyperlinks to navigate the workbook usability for the many sheets created.  • Passed with high scores for company mandated Lean competency training certification among other training.  • Administered SharePoint site with view creation, modification, and site security to leverage site content.  • Automated conditional formatting for dashboard template that would populate projects, milestones, and risks.  • Calculated risk metrics and set date parameters for milestone suppression based on the amount of days included.  • Provided automation analysis for such projects as Dodd Frank, Jira, MS-Project integration, and SunGard.  • Designed cloud based schemas for multiple bank security scenarios, security system granularity. (SunGard)  • Used SunGard's "iWork's" service to provide model templates for PMO group to maximize flow and performance.  • Automated Gantt chart collision dashboard with VBA Internet Explorer object model to avoid execution risk.  • Parameterized date values with rolling execution windows for project deliverables with begin and end dates.  • Debugged and fix US/English date issue that was transposing month/date thus skewing rolling month windows.  • Wrote cases and prototyped for Python, .NET, MS-Access, and hybrid solution before I chose VBA due to limitations.  • Used Python Urllib2 to scrape firm intranet PMO sites to gather requirements across multiple business lines.  Also in this context moved the data into NOSQL tables with Panda libraries to demonstrate the prototype.  • Worked with UAT staff to successfully test, quality control, and usability test the apps with U-Case scenarios. Access 2010/Excel VBA Developer Pitney Bowes - Shelton, CT December 2014 to April 2015 Financial Reporting  • Re-designed excel based order entry system to a excel-Access client server based ActiveX orders GUI  • Wrote MS-Access Ado VBA to pass orders from excel interface to Access back end with data validation.  • Interface consists of mostly computed fields updating values for 105 dependent metrics.  • New model greatly reduced the untenable spreadsheet from 24mb to 8mb greatly reducing application risk.  • Replaced 36 dealer sheets with 1 sheet with parameter values combining access and excel data for all orders. RAD Developer, MS-Access, SQL Server Pitney Bowes - New York, NY December 2014 to February 2015 Cognos Finance reports migration  • Re-designed Cognos Financial with Access-Excel Client server ADO SQL server for the bank's EOD PNL.  • Developed Client Server Access/Excel Flash Dashboard feeding and pulling from client to back end server.  • Developed for CMDTY, Global Fixed Income, Treasury, and Structured product business lines.  • Integrated modified commodity and credit risk models previously held in CF with excel based formulas.  • Helped optimize over 60 queries from 8 minute to 2-minute parent/child SQL with DTD MTD QTD & YTD  • Developed OLAP cube dimension for Account, Entity, and components of all active book within the bank.  • Ultimate audiences are senior management in France, US for Americas, Canadian, and Brazilian markets.  • Automated reporting to one click to feed MAPI, normalized by component for all profit centers.  • Automated SSIS refresh of sanctioned metadata to synchronize with carried custom metadata via query updates.  • Provided data integrity for all dimensions to ensure database referential principles and kick out anomalies.  • Wrote routine to integrate anomalies separately after dimension hierarchy was manually corrected.  • Prevented anomalies for index hierarchy for all data loads, EOM true up, and DTD PNL adjustments. SQL/Excel VBA Developer Widex - Hauppauge, NY July 2014 to September 2014 • Wrote Sales Channel automation programs to quantify YTD sales and existing inventory for Danish parent.  • Re-designed company financials based on 12-month fiscal roll; greatly reducing sheets, macros, and redundancy.  • Re-calculated budgets based on actual sales algorithm to move away from static pre-fiscal hard coded figures.  • Wrote DB2 SQL via ODBC to automate data to BI layer rather than run AS 400 reports and type in by hand.  • Develop ad hoc query studio reports to validate existing production Cognos changes and new BI package  • Created queries for dashboard redesign for 9 new graphs based on merged current and previous packages.  • Analyzed and modified AS/400 DataMart to fix actual working day formulas in all Cognos reports.  • Used QlikView to render dashboard for measuring project performance metrics for week to week task Delta.  • Supervised and help train one developer for Cognos and VBA integration for End of month process.  • Leveraged DataMart performance table to automate any manual processes from subsidiary to parent company.  • Took over third-party responsibility of Cognos development and administration, supervised Cognos developers.  • Modified existing Cognos executive dashboard laden with graphs to incorporate new BI packages.  • Wrote Excel VBA normalization analysis to validate Cognos performance table hierarchy anomalies. RAD Excel VBA ETL Migration Reports Analyst MS Access SAP Cognos Becton Dickinson - Franklin Lakes, NJ February 2012 to June 2014 8.5 (Solman, HPQC)  • Brought in for SAP Wave II migration 4.0B to ECC6. Learned CIDEON migration tool. SAP interactive Excel.  • Redesigned Wave I MS-access ETL application for Wave II consumption and business rule changes.  • Performed change management and wrote test scripts for all work moved to production.  • Wrote ad-hoc SAP and Cognos queries via query studio to validate data loads and reconcile both systems.  • Automated DHF capture for materials with data validation rules with unique numeric scheme for normalization.  • Redesigned Access Migration ETL from for new Wave II business rules to incorporate links for both years.  • Wrote Cognos queries for new ETL solution and automated generation with VBA explorer object API (COM)  • Performed ETL to extract to load reconciliation for pre-load integrity. Executed loads for over 30 BD plants.  • Produced dashboard concordance in QlikView for load illustration for Everest management with detailed errors.  • Automated MDH classification capture with conditional buttons and mouse over comment engineering.  • Delivered Wave DIR materials at a %99.89 rate of success, as well as linked and release object for 85k records.  • Automated material master error reports for nearly 200 columns and optimized performance.  • Provided testing and analysis of SAP special character issue and came up with byte order mark header solution  • Automated population of data load reports to compress and upload to SharePoint site, auto populating Metadata.  • Provided excel development for several Enterprise data management pillars outside of my responsibility.  • Wrote normalization program for Environmental Health & Safety to isolate 7000 Bombos errors from 500k file.  • Automated ECC table to excel reconciliations for migration verification with SAP Excel API DRAW, DRAT  • Re-designed 15-minute electrical green application for energy optimization to 30-minute and one-hour intervals.  Modified and automated charts, GUI's, dialog boxes, sheets, through complex array construction. Crystal Reports/SQL/Excel VBA BI Developer (HPQC) PepsiCo - Somers, NY July 2011 to January 2012 • Enhanced three Student Credit card Crystal report applications to consider new clearing data for colleges.  • Fixed performance issues rose through help desk and either delivered solutions or converted to redesigns.  • Performed change management and wrote test scripts for all work moved to production.  • Modified backend queries as necessary for projects which included complex unions, joins, and temporary tables.  • Created BI dashboards for Food Service applications for a department upgrade to synchronize with beverage side.  • Created tables, views, and used Rapid SQL 7.3 to parse, analyze, compartmentalize, and execute complex DB2.  • Utilized Borland StarTeam, java based Job Control and web based Crystal enterprise servers to fulfill requests.  • Created DB2 stored procedures for daily production of backend dashboard data, companywide.  • Analyzed and updated metadata for each project for proper change control and documentation.  • Provided Crystal parameter facility for end-user flexibility as well as sub-report compartmentalization for BI.  • Created VBA COM API to suppress Crystal report parameter to streamline testing for developers.  • Also, developed a CRAXdrt.dll solution in VB.net that leveraged existing parameters from web based reports.  • Wrote Excel Automation Program to take Crystal and format in Dashboard format with arrays for any report. Excel VBA /Access Developer World Trade Jewelers - New York, NY October 2010 to July 2011 • Fully automated drop ship sales administration function by VBA web simulation of user clicks and downloads.  • Manipulated API's via COM for FedEx Shipping, IE 7, FoxPro, and Access in VBA object references.  • Create Access inventory SQL to eliminate product cancellation and fee risk for Overstock and Amazon.com  • Provided automated error free V-lookups and pivot tables for inventory reconciliation and client campaigns.  • Created Site for vendors of the wholesale business to prospect product lines and keep internals current.  • Developed QlikView Dashboard for summary and drilldown status with KPI and benchmark graphs.  • Leveraged C# and ADO to benchmark historical inventory levels that from excel/Access.  • Worked with third party .Net migrated application using SSIS, and SSRS for reporting integration.  • Automated stock reorder levels to coordinate with seasonal and actual sales to maintain sufficient stock levels.  • Created Dashboard to ensure margin spreads don't fall below certain thresholds using v-lookups.  • Designed aggregation reporting statistics for site traffic and drill down from high level to granular. (SSRS)  • Designed back-end reports for impressions, click-rates, and funnel traffic for prospective converts.  • Tasked to mature office VBA systems to VB.Net processes for contact maintenance libraries  • Engineered macro to handshake with excels add-ins in order bypass the resize limitations of the chart object.  • Automated rote tasks and minimized user intervention by intercepting fly-out menu to triggering applications. Senior Access, SQL Server (SSMS SSIS) Harper Collins Publishing - New York, NY August 2008 to January 2009 VBA developer/analyst  • Converted mission critical access databases for JD Edwards DW and SQL 2000 to 2005 server migrations.  • Prepared over 100 apps for production MS-Access 2007 VBA code, ODBC connects, and SQL databases.  • Converted DTS script written in 2000 to SSIS scripts for pass-through and updated topology concerns.  • Fixed Business Objects SQL that was crashing Client Services site; overhauled macros, queries, forms, triggers and tables as necessary where components that previously worked, surfaced as problems during assembly UAT.  • Utilized SSMS to test new views to convert legacy MS-Access connections, without changing tables.  • Scripted recommendations from migration team for enterprise wide access presentation layer using SSIS.  • Wrote spreadsheet to automatically track metrics for each application at a summary level with link to detail. Senior Business Systems Analyst OpHedge Investment Services LLC - Rye Brook, NY July 2006 to May 2008 Rye Brook, NY (07/06 - 05/08) / (09/05 - 7/06)  RAD VBA/SQL server (converted to Permanent) Senior Business Systems Analyst  Soros Fund Management Platinum Asset Grove Management (SSEM, SSRS, DTS)  • Created Net Asset Value calculator and daily EOD PNL estimator for Soros Fund Management via daily roll forward with direct connectivity to trading system P&L via SQL and ADO within VBA modules; this app provides the EOD of portfolio performance at the end of the trading day. DTS packages for Prime Broker rec.  I was primarily responsible for IT Financial Reporting marrying accounting, Daily trade, and Risk systems.  • Mid-way project, took lead developer and IT liaison role per SFM Chief Risk Officer (overall project head).  • Developed initial prototype for proof of concept for COO that became the working model for the EOD PNL.  • Integrated VAR risk bridge report to mitigate EOD drift and weight portfolio based on allocated capital.  • Developed Master/Feeder schedules for multiple firms with rollups, checks and flash of Assets under mgmt.  • Created risk based master/feeder workflow based on BOM, MTD PNL, subscriptions and redemptions.  • Converted SQL server T-SQL code, IBM universe and FoxPro data to Oracle ETL batch download. (PL/SQL)  • Crystal XI and SSRS from an Oracle universe transactional DataMart. Cut download time from 90 to 7 minutes.  • Wrote monthly NAV calculator for Platinum Grove Asset Management base on high water mark time series.  • Created Excel spreadsheets with VBA to obtain real time pricing valuation from Bloomberg and Reuters.  • Created post production VBA macros to modify native reports to customer specification using CutePDF API.  • Wrote MBS/ABS application to auto-correct accrual factors on coupons for accurate counter-party reports.  • Wrote in SSNC RDL for Antares report writer T-SQL language, stored procedures to optimize the data pulls.  • Developed VAR risk models for financial arm based on a sustainability paradigm to parallel DOW jones index  • Developed SharePoint portal via excel 2007 for leveraging our green medallion quantitative metrics system.  • Engineered price VBA UDF with case statements to account for 100% spreads based on quant algorithm.  • Designed VSTO application to download SQL server data from backend using ADO to populate site data.  • Paralleled Advent Geneva with SSNC for daily trade capture for downloads and reports to over 95% level of EOD PNL accuracy.  • Liquidated commodity swap, future/forward., & option holdings for macro positions and rolled up futures to data from SQL and Fox pro systems updated D&D security master with red code flag for credit default swaps.  • Enhanced an interpolation application to increase accuracy of bond terms from maturation to mid-month partial close using basis points for the remainder as a toggle for buys and sells (SSEM, Golden Source, Wall St office)  • Wrote macro to consolidate 2 years of EOD PNL into pivot tables and histograms to resolve outstanding variances for SFM executives; Created SQL email workflow reporting app; responsible for apps for firms that held more than 35 billion AUM. Integrated Commodity swaps with PNL after data scrub project. Senior VBA Developer UBS Warburg AG - Stamford, CT February 2005 to July 2005 • Designed and implemented a workflow institutional and high net worth equity desks and provided automated T+1 reporting for all equity derivative groups for reconciliation, including trade blotters and term sheets.  • Replaced trade logging from five entry points to one input panel Excel based GUI flowing to desk reporting  • Provided ad hoc reporting, excel business user support and VBA programming for trading floor.  • Upgraded process to integrate client excel VBA Watch-lists with daily back-office net position.  • Wrote macros for cash desk as well as an Excel based Bloomberg to Reuter's conversion for real time updates.  • Wrote XML VBA model for blue chips traded in Hong Kong at a factor of .24 ROR for two-year projections. Technical Writer Depository Trust Clearing Commission - New York, NY October 2004 to November 2004 Worked on process oriented SOP document for DTCC; specifically, for Solaris versions 8.x and 9.x Purdue Pharma - Stamford, CT July 2004 to October 2004 Produced Access, Excel, and MS word product related data normalization project; for integration into large-scale Human Resources/Legal department Oracle database. This involved scrubbing disparate hand keyed data. Programmer\Analyst/Domino Developer Micro Warehouse/CDWG - Norwalk, CT August 2002 to December 2003 Created leads for higher ED contacts, for ease of use via IBM VA for Java 3.0 and WebSphere 2.0. C Lead Notes Developer, Senior Analyst/Domino Middleware Developer Readers Digest - Pleasantville, NY January 1999 to August 2001 • Used Lotus Script to link 60 script Notrix job stream blurbs, video, & C API to link the back-end Oracle data.  • Created XML export from PeopleSoft to leverage auditing time stamps for end of year analysis.  • Used Lotus Script & JAVA to create search engine for CS reps to search 25 DBs and gather results.  • Created app to import PDF's of 50 IT dept. budgets for CIO via Java Notes factory Senior Lotus Notes Developer JP Morgan - Andersen Consulting - New York, NY August 1997 to December 1998 Andersen Specialist level)  • Led Lotus Notes HR applications Y2K compliance. Successfully audited for global initiative to migrate NT Build 4.0, Notes 4.5 Client and Server (Excel). Script based UAT. V Model architecture.  • Used Lotus Script and Notrix middle ware to connect backend ERP's to Lotus notes using ETL standards.  • Took ownership of new apps and enhanced them to comply with JP Morgan Notes AD standards. (CMM II)  • Discovered ISO date fix from DB2/CICS RDBMS to Notrix for unsupported formats. (DB2 SQL)  • On the team responsible for the company phone directory and JPM team review database with C Hi-test API Director of Software, Project Manager, FoxPro Developer IQI Telemarketing - New York, NY March 1996 to August 1997 • Managed 5 developers & 500k IT budgets for 400m company. Reported directly to CIO & COO  • Developed Projected Hours with complete workflow with VB based Lotus Script agents. (PC Anywhere)  • Designed daemons to auto deliver call reports overnight for A.M. reporting. FoxPro Developer, Data Production Manager\Help Desk\PC Tech - Clipper 5 Oxford Health Plans - Norwalk, CT April 1994 to March 1996 • Implemented Clipper based telemarketing system. System administrator on Novell based OS.  • Applied modular design techniques using and object-oriented design for the 1st time using Visual FoxPro 3.0  • Worked with and helped design Oxford Inquiry doctor panel drill down application. (PL/SQL, Basic) VIC Manager, Tape Librarian, Computer Operator, A/P Coordinator CUC International - Stamford, CT September 1990 to April 1994 IBM ES9000),  • A/P coordinator/Payroll for Entertainment Books, Excel data entry, and pivot tables.  • Created tape management system, won competition using mainframe assets over mini-computer.  • Created disaster recovery system for tape library. (MVS, TSO, JCL, CLIST, REXX, DEC, VAX)    Additional Assets Education Pace University Lubin School of Business, Norwalk St. Tech College, Essex College