Senior Python Backend Developer Senior <span class="hl">Python</span> Backend <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Python Backend Developer Johnson City, TN • 8+ years of IT experience in system/web application development, system analys is & design, coding and  testing. With focus on Enterprise Data Warehousing (EDW), Data Engineering, ETL, Data modeling, Data  integration, Big Data and Business Intelligence. With 3+ years' experience in the telecoms domain.  • Data Warehousing/Business Intelligence: 3+ years of Dimensional Data Modeling experience; Star/Snowflake  Modeling, Data marts, OLAP, FACT & Dimensions tables, Physical & Logical data modeling, and Data Modeling  Tools and implementation of Data Lake. And Practical /data analytic experience using, python data analytics  stack (Pandas, SFrame, Dask), R, Apache Spark, OBIEE, power bi and Tableau.  • Experienced working with machine learning models li ke linear regression, logisti c regression, random forest  and neural networks.  • Big Data: Working experience with various Big Data technologies like Hadoop, Map-Reduce, Spark, Pig, Hive  QL, Impala and Scala Programming with a strong orientation towards cloud computing for big data analytics.  And also excellent understanding of the complex end -to-end hardware and software system archit ecture  required.  • ETL: Working experience of Data Warehouse ETL /design and implementation of complex big data pipelines  using python, pyspark, shell script, oracle scheduler, luigi, Oracle Pl SQL etc.  • Oracle PL/SQL: Experience in developing packages, stored procedures, functions, table/pipeline functions  Views and Triggers, Complex queries. Experience also with using Oracle 11g (Exadata) Database, use of bulk  load utilities, Table Partitions, Materialized Views, Global Temporary tables, External Tables, Bulk Binds,  Oracle pipeline Functions, Oracle scheduler.  • A unique ability to absorb new ideas and impact knowledge, manage and lead. C ommunicates clearly and  effectively. Result oriented with good interpersonal and social interaction skills and a passion for team work. Work Experience Senior Python Backend Developer FormPlus July 2017 to July 2017 Operational Responsibilities  • Implement new features.  • Writing map-reduce jobs on google appengine data store to perform batch analysis/operation  • Resolve technical support issues Business Intelligence/Data Warehouse Developer Bluechip Technologies August 2013 to May 2017 Client: GT Bank Nigeria:  Operational Responsibilities: Chiefly responsible for the Implementation of a big data machine learning solution to help the client profile/segment its 900k twitter followers.    Client: Etisalat Nigeria:  Operational Responsibilities  • Writing PL-SQL scripts to m anipulate/ana lyze a nd proc ess data as requested by the client.  • Use Oracle scheduler chain to automate, manage and orchestrate complex data pro cessing work flow.  • Improve and automate manual data manipulation processes with python scripts.  • Automation and improving the interaction of Oracle dat abase with non-oracle databases.    Projects  BES Integration: Change of BI CRM source tables from a system TABS to a newer system BES  Role: Technical Lead.  Responsibilities:  • Assist in the preparation of necessary documents  • Lead the implementation of the loading scripts in python.  • Lead in the implementation of the ETL to integrate the data to the Data Warehouse    Incentive computation: Source for data and Compute the payment of Incent ive to dealers from complex  business rules. This is done weekly and monthly  Role: Lead Developer.  Responsibilities  • Revamp 22 Monthly incentive calculation/reports application using pl sql to make it more manageable and maintainable. Also help develop newer complex incentive reports.  • Adapted the Monthly incentive to be delivered monthly and met the SLA of delivering it weekly by  Saturday.    CDR ETL: Make ETL process more robust and manageable by developing a web app using python (flask)  Role: Lead Developer Lead.  Responsibilities  • Use Docker to containerize the app and make it more portable  • Develop the Core ETL application in python and expose REST Api endpoint to be consumed by and angular  JS front end application.    Client: MTN Zambia  General Responsibilities  • In charge of the development and maintenance, end to end (CDR loading, analysis and reporting) of the  Oracle Enterprise data warehouse environment.    Other Projects/Adventures.  • Help develop Etisalat customer profitability calculation model.  • Use of oracle pipeline Functions to reduce the work load of long memory hogging sql batch jobs.  • Development of a Pl-SQL script to automatic partitioning of oracle partitioned tables and also developed a package for Parallel sql execution within a procedure/package.  • Implementation of a big data POC to help with the collection and analytics of tweets in Hadoop using a  combination of spark, python, Solr and other big data technologies.  • Research the use of graph/social network f or customer segmentation and churn prediction using python,  cypher-QL and neo4j.  • Advising on the suitability of methodologies and suggesting improvements to solutions for different  clients. PHP/Web Application Developer Bincom ICT Solutions August 2012 to July 2013 • Developing database driven applications/systems  • Back end development and maintenance of application/systems using PHP and MySQL.  • Helped Develop a workflow system for The Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA)  • Design, development and maintenance of new and existing Joomla! Websites. International Representative (Missionary) The Church Of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints July 2010 to July 2012 * Managed and coordinated activities over 110 other colleagues spread across 5 states.  * Served at the Data entry/Analyst specialist.  * Coordinated activities with religious and civic groups as public relations represent ative Chams City June 2009 to June 2010 * Among the administration team for an over networked 1000 pcs facility.  * Excellent troubleshooting skills in complex software and hardware problems.  * Managingandmaintainingtheservers, PC's, routersandswitches Cloudera Certified Developer University of Benin 2003 to 2008 for Apache Hadoop (CCDH) - Feb 2014 Skills Hadoop (9 years), HADOOP (9 years), ORACLE (3 years), APACHE SOLR (3 years), BI (3 years) Additional Information SKILLS & • Extensive ETL/analytics experience with advance SQL, Oracle PL/SQL, Oracle 11g, Hadoop, Solr.  ABILITIES • Proficient in Python (Flask, Pandas, Petl, Graph lab, Pyspark) scala (Spark) and Linux Shell Scripting.  • Proficient in big data technologies such as Hadoop, Pig, Spark, Hive, Impala, Solr, Flume etc.  • Experienced with cloud technologies: Databricks Spark Cloud Se rvice, Amazon (AWS), MS Azure, P ower BI  • Experience in using virtualization technologies like Virtual Machines and Docker  • Knowledge of social graph analytics and the use of noe4j graph db.  • Comfortable with web/mobile technology such as HTML5, CSS, Java Script, Angular JS and Ionic