Developer/Data Analyst <span class="hl">Developer</span>/Data Analyst Developer/Data Analyst - POTOO Marketing LLC Queens, NY Work Experience Developer/Data Analyst POTOO Marketing LLC - Norwalk, CT November 2015 to Present Office365 , SQL server) Part Time Remote Work  • Build a program interface using VBA for user to input data for more than 40 different clients. User can import more than one records at a time from using the template file. They can search any record. Check duplicate record. They can export reports, etc. It also generated the reports for manager. The Data are storing in MS Access.  • Manipulating, cleaning and processing data using Excel, Access and SQL  • Responsible for loading, extracting and validation of a client data.  • Liaising with end-user and 3rd suppliers.  • Performing daily system checks  • Monitoring the automated loading processes.  • Advising on the suitability of mythologies and suggesting improvements.  • Carrying out specified data processing and statistical techniques.  • Create tools for user to analyst their data using VBA code.  • Create tools for user to cleaning their data using VBA code.  • Supporting users how to use Excel functions such like pivot table, chart, graphs.  • Working on automate extracting the data from all different client such AMAZON'S MWS  • Working on project upload data into salesforce.com from excel.  • The idea behind whole project is moving the data from clients to salesforce.com with clean data. Developer/Data Analyst A.I.G - New York, NY October 2014 to August 2015 C# WPF, MS ACCESS VBA, PLSQL Oracle, SQL Server Developer and Data Analyst (MSBI SSIS(ETL), SSAS, SSRS)) (Stress test, Risk Management) CCAR-Comprehensive capital Analysis and review and Build Model (GAAP and STAT, and Attribution ) RAD Developer)  • Developed a business model to analyze the data for GAAP and STAT and Attribution report using VBA (MS ACCESS, EXCEL)  • Migrated the Excel VBA model code into SQL Server (Converted all the VBA code into stored procedure code and view). Excel model using Add-Ins and COM Objects. Data Sources from Excel, text, Oracle, XML  • Analyzed Oracle Data using PL/SQL. Used SQL server BI (SSIS, SSAS, and SSRS) for analyzing report data  • Built billing program using C#/WPF to process the order of material. Tested all the formulas given by the team. Now planning using IGLOO model to testing the all stress combining AIG model  • Analyzed business requirements and wrote business requirement documents  • Create functional requirements and specification documentations, construct flow charts of the processes, and produce the other documents as directed by the client project manager  • Testing and UAT. Assist with the QA and production turnover of the applications  • Perform daily business and application support. Provide timely updates to management members of the project team. Extracting Oracle Data to Excel and load it to Access Database using Power Pivot  • Creating Excel program for loading and generated the report for analyst using VBA  • Supporting production application when it needs such as constant coordinate with other groups when formulas have to be adjusted  • Lead in testing of new or modified systems. Work with the QA team in conducting multiple levels of testing from stress, performance and standard application testing  • Designed, created and maintained OLAP Cubes used for reporting by adding dimensions and measures as needed  • Performed troubleshoot on BI tools, systems, and software; performance-tune these applications as necessary. Produced ETL design guidelines to ensure a manageable ETL infrastructure for the BI system  • Conducted job duties and responsibilities according to the organization's business systems development methodology and/or its Systems Development Life Cycle (SDLC) methodology  • Designed, code, test, and documented all new or modified BI systems, applications, and programs  • Developed the semantic layer, metadata, reports, and report definitions  • Assisted in the design of databases and data warehouses to ensure interoperability with BI solutions  • Conducted research and make recommendations on BI products, services, and standards in support of procurement and development efforts  • Analyzed user requirements and, based on findings, design functional specifications for BI front-end applications  • Created and maintained complex reports in MS SQL data sources using Reporting Services, MS Excel and other virtualization tools  • Developed complex SQL queries to support reporting requirements and SQL Server's stored procedures/functions and verified data accuracy  • Presented data in multiple formats including reports, charts, graphs, aggregates and statistical computations  • Reconciled discrepancies in reports by validating data and support information technology applications including database application while utilizing analytical and programming skills  • Created automated scripting procedures to speed up the processing of information Meyer and Associate New Jersey MS ACCESS VBA April 2014 to October 2014 Computer Programmer-Data Analyst- (C# 2010, SQL Server 2010, MSBI (SSIS(ETL), SSAS, SSRS), SharePoint/Crystal Report, VB6, ASP.NET/MS ACCESS VBA)  • Analyzed VB6 Customer service, Billing, Payment, New Graduates application codes  • Migrated customer service, Billing, Payment application written in VB6 to C# using Entity Framework  • Payment application: feature such as create a batch for post.  • Worked with Access and SQL Server Database, Access Reports and analysis tool  • Renamed fields name and redefined the type of the fields and redefined the new relationship (scheme)  • Built SSIS package for migration data from MS Access to SQL Server. Consolidate Excel Data using Excel VBA  • Built reports using SSRS with SharePoint for marketing department/analysts  • Maintained and extending several C# Applications. Supporting MS Access Reports, Queries, Scheme, VBA  • Designed and maintained Access Reports, Crystal Reports and the overall reporting function at the firm  • Rebuilt, expanded and improved all legacy reports on new reporting platform using SSRS 2008 R2  • Built out novel reports and migrated rebuilt legacy reports into new centralized reporting portal to meet reporting needs company-wide  • Developed complex SQL queries to support reporting requirements and SQL Server's stored procedures/functions and verified data accuracy  • Designed ETL packages to transfer files into SQL Databases and designed reports to present the Data to end-users.  • Designed, created and maintained OLAP Cubes used for reporting by adding dimensions and measures  • Produced ETL design guidelines to ensure a manageable ETL infrastructure for the BI system  • Assisted in the design of databases and data warehouses to ensure interoperability with BI solutions  • Conducted research and made recommendations on BI products, services, and standards in support of procurement and development efforts  • Evaluated and selected database/data warehouse components, including hardware, relational database management systems, ETL software, metadata management tools, and database design solutions Programmer/Data Analyst - C#/Access/Excel/VBA/Oracle/ Python/ Crystal Reports/ MSBI (SSIS (ETL) /SSAS Citi Group - Long Island City, NY October 2012 to March 2014 Long island City, NY Oct 2012 - Mar 2014  Programmer/Data Analyst - C#/Access/Excel/VBA/Oracle/ Python/ Crystal Reports/ MSBI (SSIS (ETL) /SSAS, SSRS) SQL /Fixed Income and Derivative (using Derivative Pricing), Liquidity Risk, Swap Pricing  • Supported Securities Trader and responsible for programming and analysis of Liquidity and Operations for Derivatives applications in Citi Treasury Department  • Analyzed business requirements and write business requirement documents  • Built and Supported Libor FAS 133 Cash flow Hedge Program (Written in Excel, Access), then migrate to C#  ? This is Citi Treasury FASB ASC 815-Hedge Accounting Program: Cash Flow Hedge of Variable-Rate Assets for Changes in Benchmark Interest Rates for the overall hedge program from MS ACCESS, EXCEL VBA, Python to ORACLE , C#.NET , Excel, Python  • Built and Supported London Security Program -Daily P&L file as requested by the CTI London team to track MTD and projected monthly P&L for the London Credit book held in New York. Report will also show all trade indicatives. (Written in Excel, Access, Python),  • Built TIMS -Global Portfolio Analysis program using Bloomberg Pricing Data, DP (Derivative Price) Data, and Yield Data. (SYBASE, MS Excel)  • Trading Report- the Trading P&L Report is a daily report that summarizes the trading positions for the front office. The report showed the market to market P&L on all the trading activity. The information was sourced from Summit (product processor). The report considered new trades, matured trades, terminated trades in addition to open trades. The purpose of this automation effort was to reduce operational risk and increase efficiency. (SYBASE, MS Access, MS Excel, Python)  • Fed Feed of 3rd party derivatives- Review derivative trades in the Excel worksheet "3RD PARTY DERIVATIVES" from two external files (Customer XML, PC Download File). (Access, Excel VBA, Python)  • Treasury Liquidity Master Project Monitor- This is program keep track the status of all the Treasury Liquidity Master projects. It does generate the following information for the report; Project Information, Project Description, Accomplishments this reporting period, Project Timeline, Open Risks  • Citi Group Treasury Investment Insight (CTI Insight) program-This is for the reporting for Market Risk and Written in (Oracle, MS Excel, Python)  • Provided technical support and manage enhancement requests for existing applications  • Conducted functional validation reviews on existing tools to mitigate risk, improve functionality and reduce support requirements  • Ensured accuracy and timeliness of reports in compliance with contract and project requirements.  • Supported Hedge Program, Securities Reports for Trader, Liquidity for Government Report, (Capital Requirements Directive 4) CRD4 for Europe gov't, 4G System for U.S government, and Liquidity Coverage Risk (LCR) for Global.  • Consolidated CRD4 and LCR Database using SSIS importing MS Access Data to SQL Server and create cube using SSAS to analyst the data.  • Designed ETL packages to transfer files into SQL Databases and designed reports to present the Data to end-users.  • Designed, created and maintained OLAP Cubes used for reporting by adding dimensions and measures as needed.  • Produced ETL design guidelines to ensure a manageable ETL infrastructure for the BI system.  • Conducted job duties and responsibilities according to the organization's business systems development methodology and/or its Systems Development Life Cycle (SDLC) methodology.  • Designed and delivered end-user training and training materials; provide technical support as necessary.  • Led the integration efforts for merging BI platforms with enterprise systems and applications.  • Designed, code, test, and documented all new or modified BI systems, applications, and programs.  • Developed the semantic layer, metadata, reports, and report definitions.  • Assisted in the design of databases and data warehouses to ensure interoperability with BI solutions.  • Conducted research and make recommendations on BI products, services, and standards in support of procurement and development efforts.  • Evaluated and selected database/data warehouse components, including hardware, relational database management systems, ETL software, metadata management tools, and database design solutions.  • Analyzed user requirements and, based on findings, design functional specifications for BI front-end applications. Programmer/Data Analyst - MS OFFICE Invesco - New York, NY July 2012 to October 2012 Access/Excel/PowerPoint ) VBA  • Developed a process to extract portfolio holdings, Model scoring/ranking, and individual stock performance information from GQE proprietary databases, Invesco performance/portfolio tools, and other external data vendors to develop content for client reporting using VBA  • Collaborated with Research and Portfolio Construction and Trading team to on how to best extract information from GQE proprietary databases  • Provided alternative deliverables to the CPM team  • Operationalized the process so that can be used by other  • Trained Client Portfolio Management Associate (CPMA) team members to use this process to supplement current client reporting efforts  • Reduced system slowness and retrieval time of financial report information with design of databases, thereby eliminating the use of billing software for reporting  • Modernized, eliminated and condensed existing outdated reports and rewrote processes  • Discovered and reported material variances in daily system activity  • Instituted a series of system/database audits to detect and address input code issues  • Performed analysis of the given data and draw accurate inferences, in accord with the objectives of the analysis  • Gathered data required to conduct analysis from several sources, compile it together in prescribed format and enter the data in several data analysis software.  • Evaluated the given problem, situation and crisis; investigate for solutions using data analysis practices and prepare analysis reports  • Determined the methodologies and procedures for carrying out effective data analysis. Provide training to the staff members on the new systems implemented Developer - MS ACCESS/VBA/MS Excel Morgan Stanley - New York, NY April 2012 to June 2012 2010/SQL Server/ Python/ Crystal Reports  • Created custom reports in MS Access and Excel on a daily, weekly and as needed basis for project managers  • Created dashboard using MS Excel Formula and Python.  • Extensive use of Pivot Tables and Charts for reports  • Consolidated all the reports in MS Access using VBA and using SQL data.  • Used v-lookup function for comparing the data.  • Made updates and changes to the MS Access Database to speed up the process for reports generating (IBD and PWM)  • Managed files in Shared Point.  • Extensive use of MS PowerPoint for reports presentation  • Reduced system slowness and retrieval time of financial report information with design of databases, thereby eliminating the use of billing software for reporting  • Modernized, eliminated and condensed existing outdated reports and rewrote processes  • Discovered and reported material variances in daily system activity  • Instituted a series of system/database audits to detect and address input code issues  • Utilized programming and reporting tools to provide input and transmit output.  • Created and modified various reports based on user requests.  • Added/updated system transactions and data code tables. Developer - C#/MS ACCESS/VBA/MS Excel/VB.Net/SQL Server/ MSBI(SSIS(ETL)/SSAS/SSRS) AT&T July 2011 to April 2012 • Develop an MS Access Database with VB.NET to identify and analyze data errors such as overdue date, Logic error, Plan Date error, etc., for two markets (King of Prussia, and New England). The database works for any markets for AT&T based on region. It also has a feature to generate Templates such as NDER, CSS, BILLING, and LAC to upload to the database. Then later Migrate it to C#.  • Using MS Excel Power Pivot to analyze data and create reports for Accounting Dept. (Analyze all different Program Projects Cost (vendor, material, labor, etc.) within a year and delete some scope of the work if it is not required.  • Analyze financial data and prepare financial statement and reports for directors and propose recommendations.  • Develop and maintain financial databases using C#.  • Financial audit preparation and coordinate the audit process  • Ensure accurate and appropriate recording and analysis of revenues and expenses using SSAS  • Analyze and advise business operations which included revenue and expenditure trends, financial commitments, and future revenues using SSAS  • Analyze financial information to recommend or develop efficient use of resources and procedures, provide strategic recommendations and maintain solutions to business and financial problems  • Developed Crystal Reports  • Migrating data from Access to SQL server using SSIS  • Designed ETL packages to transfer files into SQL Databases and designed reports to present the Data to end-users.  • Designed, created and maintained OLAP Cubes used for reporting by adding dimensions and measures as needed.  • Performed troubleshoot on BI tools, systems, and software; performance-tune these applications as necessary.  • Produced ETL design guidelines to ensure a manageable ETL infrastructure for the BI system.  • Conducted job duties and responsibilities according to the organization's business systems development methodology and/or its Systems Development Life Cycle (SDLC) methodology.  • Designed and delivered end-user training and training materials; provide technical support as necessary.  • Led the integration efforts for merging BI platforms with enterprise systems and applications.  • Designed, code, test, and documented all new or modified BI systems, applications, and programs.  • Developed the semantic layer, metadata, reports, and report definitions.  • Assisted in the design of databases and data warehouses to ensure interoperability with BI solutions.  • Conducted research and make recommendations on BI products, services, and standards in support of procurement and development efforts.  • Evaluated and selected database/data warehouse components, including hardware, relational database management systems, ETL software, metadata management tools, and database design solutions.  • Analyzed user requirements and, based on findings, design functional specifications for BI front-end applications.  • Create Cube using SSAS to analyst the data in SQL SERVER for the projects Developer - MS ACCESS/VBA/MS Excel Ann Tylor - New York, NY February 2011 to April 2011 • Developed Retail reports using VBA  • Reports Data store in MS ACCESS  • Debugged Excel Links  • Rebuilt, expanded and improved all legacy reports on new reporting platform using SSRS 2008 R2.  • Built out novel reports and migrated rebuilt legacy reports into new centralized reporting portal to meet reporting needs company-wide.  • Assisted Controller and Accounting Team with research and data analysis  • Guided and mentored junior staff and provided expertise to software development team.  • Directly supported Finance, Marketing, Client Services, Sales, HR departments ,  • Consistently self-managed and independently motivated ahead of expectations in providing new data solutions to company.  • Reduced system slowness and retrieval time of financial report information with design of databases, thereby eliminating the use of billing software for reporting  • Modernized, eliminated and condensed existing outdated reports and rewrote processes  • Implemented monthly "Executive Summary " report identifying increase/decrease in key accounts receivable indicators against previous years  • Discovered and reported material variances in daily system activity  • Instituted a series of system/database audits to detect and address input code issues Developer and Data Analyst - C#, MS ACCESS/VBA/MS Excel Developer/VB.NET/MSBI (SSIS, SSAS, SSRS) Goodman Networks - Little Rock, AR April 2010 to February 2011 • Built a program using C# to track all department different reports data with sites status  • Ran CASPR Reports for Site Acq, Check Schedule for Over Due Date, and analysis of the data using VB.NET code  • Developed a program system in MS ACCESS/VBA/VB.NET for Site Acq Dept., Engineer Dept., RF Dept., Project Controller Dept. to run their reports, retrieve information, and coordinated the data with each other  • Designed ETL packages to transfer files into SQL Databases and designed reports to present the Data to end-users  • Designed, created and maintained OLAP Cubes used for reporting by adding dimensions and measures as needed  • Performed troubleshooting on BI tools, systems, and software; performance-tuned these applications as necessary  • Produced ETL design guidelines to ensure a manageable ETL infrastructure for the BI system  • Conducted job duties and responsibilities according to the organization's business systems development methodology and/or its Systems Development Life Cycle (SDLC) methodology  • Designed and delivered end-user training and training materials; provide technical support as necessary  • Led the integration efforts for merging BI platforms with enterprise systems and applications  • Designed, coded, tested, and documented all new or modified BI systems, applications, and programs  • Developed the semantic layer, metadata, reports, and report definitions  • Assisted in the design of databases and data warehouses to ensure interoperability with BI solutions  • Modernized, eliminated and condensed existing outdated reports and rewrote processes using C#  • Instituted a series of system/database audits to detect and address input code issues  • Helped customers streamline workflow activities, and effectively manage human resource information    **DETAIL ON EXPERIENCE PRIOR TO 2005 AVAILABLE UPON REQUEST: Developer and Data Analyst - C#/VBA/MS ACCESS/MS Excel/SQL Server/MSBI SSIS, SSAS, SSRS July 2009 to April 2010 Developer and Data Analyst - C#, VB.NET/MS ACCESS/VBA/MS Excel/SQL Server/MSBI (SSIS, SSAS, SSRS) Colgate Palmolive November 2008 to April 2009 Developer and Data Analyst - C#/MS ACCESS/VBA/MS Excel Developer/VB.NET/SSIS/SSAS/SSRS General Dynamic October 2006 to November 2008 Developer and Data Analyst Bechtel March 2005 to September 2006 C#/ VB.NET/ MS Access /VBA/MS Excel /MSBI(SSIS/SSRS/SSAS) BMCC November 2001 to March 2005 MS ACCESS/MS Excel/MS Word Support Database (SQL) Developer/ASP Agent Tree Inc December 2000 to June 2001 ABN AMRO December 1999 to December 2000 Support VB, VB script, MS Office 2000, & SQL Server Programmer Analyst/MS Excel 2003/MS ACCESS NYC Employee Retirement System December 1998 to December 1999 Education BS in Computer Information System Baruch College - New York, NY 1998 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Programming: (C#,VB.Net,ASP.Net) .Net 2010, SQL Server, SSIS,SSRS,SSAS, Java 6, JavaScript 1.8, Ajax, CSS, Bootstrap, Angular JS, HTML, ActiveX, VBA (Excel, Word, Access), COM/DCOM, C/C++, SQL, JavaScript, HTML, XML, Visual C++, PL/SQL  Operating Systems: Win 8  Software: MS Office XP (Access, Excel, Word, Power Point, and Outlook), SQL Server 2010, MTS, SharePoint, Crystal Report 8, Oracle8i, Outlook 2010, Oracle, Sybase, Python 3.4. Micro Strategy