Lead SQL Server DBA Lead SQL Server DBA Lead SQL Server DBA - CCMS Englewood, CO Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Lead SQL Server DBA CCMS - Denver, CO August 2017 to Present SQL Server (2008/12/16), Postgres, DBA, data quality and reporting environment  ? R Services and heavy T-SQL (incl. Window functions) for ad-hoc reporting and analytics  ? Finance Reporting and Analytics using SSRS and cubes built in SSAS  ? Reporting Administrator: Qlikview, SSRS  ? SSAS, SSRS, SSIS, Pentaho & Powershell/bash development  ? SQL Server DBA, including integration with SalesForce, NetSuite and dbMail SQL Server SSAS Developer and DBA Centura - Denver, CO July 2015 to July 2017 SQL Server 2005, 2008, R2 and 2012 Developer and DBA for executive and finance reporting.  ? Approx. duties: 50% SSAS, 25% SSIS/ETL and 25% DBA duties  ? Excel Power Pivot and Power View for reporting, extensive T-SQL development  ? SSAS tabular and multi-dimensional modeling, development and deployment (to Excel)  ? MDX and DAX scripting to support complex analytics  ? View and query optimization, T-SQL, complex view research and deployment (pivot/unpivot etc)  ? Python, cURL, RESTful web services, JSON, bash/cygwin/PowerShell scripting MySQL DBA & Pentaho Data Architect DiningAlliance - Boston, MA March 2015 to July 2015 MySQL system administration and dba/architect; bash/cron shell scripting for dba duties.  ? Data volumes in excess of 150 million. rows; Pentaho Analyzer cube implementation and admin.  ? Pentaho Data Integration ("PDI") script development and deployment  ? Amazon AWS/EC2 Ubuntu Linux administration and deployment  ? Jira/Confluence for project management and control  ? EDI x12 data interchange standard programming (832,850,855,etc) Java, awk, mysql, Pentaho SSAS Data Warehouse Architect HealthGrades - Madison, WI March 2015 to March 2015 Short Term Contract to advise client on SQL Server 2008, 2012 and 2014 best practices within a healthcare/HIPAA context.  ? SSAS cube development and MDX report generation issues  ? SSIS infrastructure and development advising MySQL Data Architect Gaiam - Denver, CO October 2014 to March 2015 Worked for gaiamtv.com - online video subscription division of Gaiam.  ? MySQL, PostgreSQL; JDBC; query development and database tuning; admin: AWS EC2, Mac OSX  ? Java (database API and Tomcat), Scala  ? MySQL -> PHP -> R -> Tableau PHP MySQL Developer Comcast - Denver, CO October 2013 to September 2014 Assigned to hardware migration team with the task to build tools to move and QA data in support of the multi-year effort (move subscribers off decommissioned switches onto new hardware).  ? PHP and jpGraph: multi-database correlation reporting (dashboard) web app development  ? Pentaho Data Integration for movement between SQL Server, MySQL and PostgreSQL administration  ? Bash linux shell scripting; perl and C programming (MySQL api); Git and Subversion/SVN  ? SOAP web service testing and data transfer/validation automation via bash, Curl and SoapUI  ? Debian (wheezy) Linux system and web master administration duties  ? Java: tomcat web app development Enterprise Architect DaVita - Denver, CO August 2013 to September 2013 Consultant to help evaluate Informatica DDM (Dynamic Data Masking) and TDM (Test Data Manager) products as a demonstrator/proof-of-concept for filtering and masking of ePHI data in accordance with new government regulations.  ? Informatica, SQL Server 2012, Oracle, some Netezza investigation and evaluation  ? Script generation to systematically evaluate all column names to find possible ePHI data  ? DDL and SQL script generation from system tables to mask columns or truncate identified tables Tableau SSAS PostgreSQL Developer Clickfox - Denver, CO May 2013 to July 2013 Architect and build a new BI implementation as a demonstrator/proof-of-concept.  ? SQL Server 2012 - Analysis Services (SSAS) development and deployment as backend cube technology, including MDX query writing  ? PostgreSQL and Greenplum database backend work, some Java/perl/bash development work. Connected Greenplum directly to Tableau, as well as to Analysis Services.  ? Tableau Desktop and Server deployment, development, publishing and administration; Tableau JavaScript API Testing and Deployment for integration planning  ? Data volumes in excess of 4 Billion rows (Greenplum database)  ? Project was POC to integrate BI reporting with an existing customer-facing web application PostgreSQL BI Architect W.J. Bradley - Denver, CO October 2012 to April 2013 Architect and build a new BI implementation.  ? PostgreSQL, Qlikview, Talend ETL, Java, Perl/PHP/Javascript Development  ? Correlate and provide data marts specific to 30 loan origination facilities to a corporate view  ? Data mart (star schema) development and deployment, data quality control SQL Server SSAS BI Architect Health Inventures - Denver, CO February 2012 to October 2012 Redesign, rebuild, deploy a new architecture over an older database schema. Advise and implement tools to migrate report definition from I.T. to user community.  ? Erwin, SQL Server 2008 (T-SQL, SSIS, stored procs), Qlikview  ? Correlate and provide data marts specific to 30 ambulatory centers plus a corporate view  ? Integrate data from 5 different health information systems to a single schema Oracle (11g) Data Architect Nissan - Nashville July 2011 to February 2012 Design, specify and build an Operational Data Store (ODS) to populate and integrate with existing mainframe, Salesforce.com, SAP and other Oracle data. Overall project target is to replace green screens with Salesforce.com application.  ? Heavy ERWIN and source-to-target transformation research, design, and documentation.  ? IBM z/OS, DB2, Adabas, VSAM and Oracle technologies  ? Informatica migration of data from Adabase/DB2/VSAM to Oracle  ? Web Services (WSDL, SOAP) integration from Oracle to Salesforce.com  ? Integrate, extend existing star schema design  ? High volume data quality analysis and remediation PHP MySQL PostgreSQL Developer Atmel - Co March 2011 to June 2011 Resurrect a project that had been stalled for 8+ months: rework an existing PHP application to an improved architecture, prioritize and add new features.  ? Hands-on PHP cleanup, re-architecting, programming and refactoring  ? PHP "spaghetti pages" to PHP "object oriented MVC" migration  ? MySQL to Postgres migration, integration and refactoring  ? Ruby (watir) test set development and standardization  ? Automated bash scripting: ssh, scp, sftp, awk, diff, patch  ? Slackware Linux and Sun Solaris deployment, scheduling and administration SSIS Developer Aabcom Solutions - Denver, CO December 2010 to March 2011 Project #2: State of Oregon. This was also strict SSIS work, with some stored proc T-SQL, migrating data from source system to final normalized data warehouse with standard and rigorous Dimension and Fact Tables. Some SOAP/WSDL web services scripting as well using a service to geocode addresses then calculate the distance between two lat/long pairs.    Project #1: Abound Solar - they manufacture solar panels. This was strict SSIS work within an established "DataVault" methodology. The basic structures were in place, my tasking was to fill in the missing SSIS packages. Server Side Java Engineer getFugu - Aspen, CO October 2010 to December 2010 Fugu is a mobile apps company. I worked on server side java socket and web application code, extending and maintaining it. Java tier in a 4 tier setup (Flash-PHP-Java-C++) included a socket server, a web server and a common Java API back-end. Tasks included Eclipse building, hand-coding protocol byte arrays and other development duties.    Minor duties included PHP coding, Flash/ActionScript coding and XPath query coding. SSIS Developer L3 Technologies Aviation Products - Crestview, FL August 2010 to September 2010 L3 is a defense contractor. I was one of 3 contract developers on the project doing SSIS package development and deployment in support of a financial reporting application. Some SSRS development. SSAS/SSIS Developer Zed - Denver, CO May 2010 to July 2010 End client is a cell phone ringtone provider with dozens of distribution channels. My position was to "keep the wheels on" until a permanent replacement could be found. The company has since moved to Miami.  Primary:  ? SQL Server SSAS/MSAS/Analysis Services administration and development  ? SQL Server SSIS/MSIS/Integration Services administration and development  ? SQL programming for data analysis and correction  ? Data quality and analytic troubleshooting  Secondary:  ? MDX scripting BI Technical Project Manager Pepsi - New York, NY September 2009 to May 2010 Primary:  ? Datawarehouse Reporting and Analytics Implementation of Mfg. and Distribution data  ? JSP, Java MySQL, Linux, Tomcat, sFTP, Ant, awk, Perl (100% open source stack)  ? Pentaho ETL and BI Server, jFreeChart, Mondrian, jPivot  ? Linux (debian) troubleshooting, server administration and bash scripting duties  ? Managed a team of 6 remote, part-time and full-time, contractors to meet project deadlines.  ? Expert MDX and SQL Scripting  Secondary:  ? Java programming for servlets, JSPs, APIs, and data manipulation  ? Perl text transformation programming, C programming  ? On-the-fly PDF and XLS creation from raw data Python/Django Programmer AST - New Jersey June 2009 to September 2009 AST is an intellectual property cooperative focusing on acquiring and licensing software patents.  ? JSP, Java, Python/Django, JQuery/JSON, MySQL, Linux, Tomcat, (100% open source stack)  ? Linux (ubuntu) troubleshooting, server administration and bash scripting duties DBA Magellan - Denver, CO May 2009 to June 2009 Magellan was a software vendor in the restaurant vertical (went out of business).    Primary:  ? SQL Server instance maintenance, migration and administration in support of a new software application development effort.  ? Maintenance and data migration between more than a dozen environments.  Secondary:  ? Minor SSAS and SSIS support and development  ? T-SQL and MDX Scripting Java Developer General Dynamics - Huntsville, AL January 2009 to May 2009 Primary:  ? Java testing of 3-D + Time objects in a 3D+time 'battle planning' visualization context  ? Java programming for servlets, API, and data manipulation using Eclipse, jUnit for testing Analysis Services/B.O. Developer Aurora Bank - Denver, CO August 2008 to December 2008 Primary:  ? SQL Server 2008 SSAS/MSAS/Analysis Services administration and development  ? Proclarity PerformancePoint development and administration  ? Business Objects 6.5 and XI (BOXI) development and administration  ? Crystal Reports development and maintenance  ? Oracle (PL/SQL) and SQL Server database reporting  ? MDX scripting    Secondary: Hyperion, Informatica, SSIS, Pentaho Java, SQL, Unix Shell Programmer twTelecom - Denver, CO May 2008 to August 2008 Java Tomcat Servlet (web app) development for "object graph traversal" of an "object database"  ? Java development of a program to automatically search an arbitrarily complex object graph and return possible paths between given objects  ? SQL: Oracle, PL/SQL, Sybase integration scripting  ? Java programming and expert-level Unix shell scripting (process automation programming)  ? Data processing across systems using REST, cURL, wget, XML, HTTP  ? Ruby, Python, PHP, Perl, tcl scripting; Pentaho; Excel, Crystal Reports reporting Java/JSF Developer Collect America - Denver, CO, US January 2008 to May 2008 Primary: JSF; Oracle/ADF/MyFaces, JDeveloper  Secondary: Informatica (primarily for WSDL/SOAP), use case design, test plan design using 'watij' (Java web app testing framework).    Member of a 50 person team reworking a 10 year old application to new Oracle ADF architecture. Wrote java classes, JSP(x) pages, use cases; guided and implemented functionality in accordance with the internal review and design process. DTS/SSIS Architect Visa - Denver, CO September 2007 to December 2007 Coded the DTS/SSIS packages to load data from disparate text file sources to a central database. The project was an "islands of data integration" project brining together customer banking data from 14 disparate/legacy systems to a central SharePoint enabled site for improved customer service. OLAP/MSAS Architect McGraw-Hill - Denver, CO May 2007 to August 2007 Implemented an Oracle-to-SQL Server ETL process, architected and deployed SQL Server Analysis Services 2005 OLAP cubes in a high-volume environment. The primary constraint of this project was to be able to process 400,000 rows of detail data per hour into the cubes with 4 hours latency. The final system had the following characteristics:    ? 30 Dimensions and 10 Measure Groups in 5 cubes, 40 Million rows of historical data  ? The ability to consume 1.2 Million rows per hour with 45 seconds data-into-cube latency  ? SSRS (reporting) and SSIS (integration) duties  ? Advanced MDX Scripting Data Quality Analyst, SQL Programmer Time-Warner - Denver, CO November 2006 to May 2007 Worked at the discretion of business process owners on an 18-month data cleanup effort:  ? Starting with a data quality of 80%, we closed the gap to 99.9%  ? SQL, Oracle, PL/SQL, Sybase scripting  ? Java programming and expert-level Unix shell scripting (process automation programming)  ? Ruby, Python, PHP, Perl, tcl scripting; Pentaho, Excel, Crystal Reports reporting Linux/Java/JSF/MySQL Project Manager USGS - Denver, CO June 2006 to November 2006 Transitioned a defect-ridden program from "db4o" (object oriented database) and Wickets (MVC framework) to "shop standard" technologies of Java Server Faces (JSF), MySQL, Eclipse and jUnit. Turned over to federal personnel at project's end for long-term maintenance. The project domain was biological/scientific research data. Recruited, interviewed, hired, trained and managed a team of 6 remote contractors (100% email/remote coordination) to ensure that the project was completed on time.    ? The website is still online: http://www.coopunits.org  ? Prior to me, 3 previous developers over 2 prior years had failed to deliver a working product MySQL dba, Linux Admin ManiaTV - Denver, CO January 2006 to June 2006 ManiaTV was an internet television network; declared bankruptcy in 2008.    Responsible for 6 production MySQL databases running on Red Hat Linux; also responsible for database upgrades, backups. Additionally:    ? Built a web log analysis system that processed 1 Million+ rows per day  ? Administered the Windows Media Servers log analysis software  ? Wrote data entry servlets to allow personnel to enter/update data  ? Exposure to Struts and Spring web frameworks BI/OLAP Consultant & Project Manager Dimensional Insight - Boston, MA 2000 to 2006 Leverage a host of technical and leadership skills to manage new product incubation, development, and production. Assigned frequently by CEO to the most critical projects and to provide leadership and technical expertise in turning around problematic projects. Support sales, serving as technical lead in closing $2 million new business.    Selected Contributions & Results:  * Customer Integration Project Manager: Worked with clients on 3 day to 6 month engagements, building robust end-to-end solutions integrating disparate data (from DB2, Oracle, SQL Server, MySQL) into a single enterprise view of the data, other vendor software, and custom reporting solutions (like Tomcat, Excel, Email-blasting). Worked with everyone from the DBA to the CEO to ensure the project was on-target, on-time.    * Production DBA: Hosted customer data in managed hosting environment using MySQL, SQL Server, Oracle and DB2; managed DBA's, customers and reporting solutions for clients. Managed all aspects of load and transform data for customers to provide a customized, web-based reporting/analysis solution for each customer. Customer consulting using PL/SQL, TSQL, DTS, SQLPlus, Perl, Awk, MySQL; Web-based reporting using Excel, Apache/Tomcat, JavaScript.    * Company database/SQL/MDX expert: Consultant to SQL Server OLAP/DTS Services clients to consult, integrate and deliver reporting solutions. Heavy SQL Server Stored Procedure and DTS scripting, Oracle reporting duties. Company DB2 expert. Consulting division's "primary resource" for MySQL, AS400/DB2, Oracle, SQL Server customers. Specialized in manufacturing, healthcare and distribution verticals. Primary expert for SQL and RDBMS issues. Excel, Access, rdb, SAS as well.    * Unix/Linux system administration and programming; Perl, Python and Ruby; awk and bash. Internal and external (client-facing) as needed. MySQL and Oracle integration and custom ETL programming.    * Web Application developer: developed a server-side, data-driven web application (Java Servlet), allowing remote users to "slice and dice" data "on the fly"; portal/portlet integration with Tomcat and WebSphere.    * Java Programmer: Helped realize CEO's product vision. Prototyped and brought to market a series of robust, high-quality products with fully modifiable and maintainable architectures, successfully broadening the corporate product line and enhancing customer satisfaction and sales:  * Web-based Excel data server (Java) *  * Metadata repository search / extract tool (C) *  * Applet-free "pure HTML" data analysis/reporting client (Java servlet) *    * C Programmer: Wrote a system metadata search/extract/reporting tool for use as a field tool by the consulting department. Command line, cross-compiled for both Linux and Windows. Used proprietary API and GLIB/GTK+ open source toolkits, compilation using complex "make" scripts. DataWarehouse Project Manager Michelin - Greenville, SC 1998 to 2000 Recruited to tackle pressing challenge of designing and building plant-wide database and management reporting system for rubber preparation plant with 200 managers and 800 equipment operators running 8 production lines. Managed 2 reports and $120k annual budget. Developed software using SAS, R, C, SQL Server, Access, VB and OLAP/data warehouse tools. Additionally, created and implemented company's first on-site intranet.    Selected Contributions & Results:  * Built zero-footprint, WinNT server-based system featuring modular integration to extract, transform, and load various datasets into datawarehouse. Moved beyond PC-based application expectations to deliver forward-thinking server-based infrastructure requiring minimal (30 minutes) daily maintenance.    * Rolled out application to 65 desktops in 30 days with ZERO failures. Achieved near-perfect rollout to 200 end-users in 90 days, putting all managers online with live data and a single hour of training. SQL Server/VB Development Lead US Navy - FL 1997 to 1998 SQL Server/Access VBA Developer US Air Force - FL 1996 to 1996 Windows 3.1 Administrator Escambia County FL 1995 to 1995 Flight / Division Officer US Navy - FL 1990 to 1994 Education M.S. in Software Engineering University of West Florida - Pensacola, FL 1998 Bachelor of Arts in Geography University of Colorado Boulder - Boulder, CO 1990 Skills databases (10+ years), sql server (10+ years), shell scripting (bash) (10+ years), sql (10+ years), Business Intelligence (10+ years), Reporting (10+ years), php (4 years), java (10+ years), ORM (10+ years), C (8 years) Military Service Branch: United States Navy Rank: LT