System Co-ordinator System Co-ordinator System Co-ordinator - Meijer Ann Arbor, MI More than 20 years of experience in multiple IT roles including Project Management and Leadership, Business  Analysis, Software Engineer, Programmer, Designer, Data Architect, Data Modeler, Software Architect, and  Software Development in multiple technologies and platforms.  C++, Sybase SQL, Shell Scripting. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience System Co-ordinator Meijer - Grand Rapids, MI October 2013 to Present MIDS is Meijer's Distribution System. It is part of it's Supply Chain Management department. Meijer has seventeen  distribution centers servicing and supplying material to more than 200 stores geographically distributed in the northern  part of United States. This application is responsible to keep track of all material inventory and material movements within and without all distribution facilities. In this role I am responsible for maintenance and enhancements for mostly  middle tire and back end of the system. That includes some projects consisting of new development.  Environment:  1. Windows 2000, AIX, C++, C, shell scripting, SYBASE isql, PB.net.  Responsibilities:  • Writing C++ code, shell scripts necessary to function the middle tier and back-end properly with all changes  happening in the business.  • complete the necessary coding, with Unit and integration testing  • Review business, systems and software requirements as and when the new business needs arise.  • Identify any open ends in the present system and suggest any enhancements, process changes, improvements  • Maintain and development any Stored Procedures. Participate in the System support when needed.  • Co-ordinate with other stake holders as well as contractors to get needed work done, and deliver in time. Python Developer Ricardo Engineering - Van Buren, MI May 2013 to September 2013 C2M2L is a part of DARPA's AVM efforts. AVM is Adaptive Vehicle Make lead by DARPA. C2M2L (pronounced 'camal') is  Component, Context, and Manufacturing Library. As a part of AVM design, this project is designing components in CAD and Modelica. The UML diagramming is done using MagicDraw. My subgroup was involved in building needed application  for this project for information management and exchanging all information with DARPA in XML format.    Page ! 1 of 9  udaymdesai@gmail.com  Developed the design data base in python and ZODB data base and application to verify and control data consistency and integrity, in python with jinj2 template.    Environment:  Windows 2000, apache, python 2.7 with lxml, ZODB libraries; HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery Following Agile  methodology.    Responsibilities:  • Review the requirements, efforts estimation  • Design and prototype the user interface (as web pages - wireframes)  • Design and develop necessary python classes and scripts  • Develop JavaScript / HTML pages for the reports and presentations  • Review test plans and test cases, guide the testers when necessary Sr. Software Engineer ProQuest/Xanedu Publishing August 2012 to April 2013 XAT is the public, end users facing web site of Xanedu publishing company. This application is for management and monitoring of various course packs and purchased articles and published material. The user interface was designed only for IE 7 and above using HTML frames. One of the goals was to remove all frames and make all pages frameless.  Another major goal was to make entire site (XAT) cross browser compatible, and to make changes so that it can be  used on IE 7 and above, FF 13.0 and above, Safari and Chrome. The Java based application is being build using MVC  architecture. There were lots of enhancements and new development was a part of this effort.  Another part for the project is to automate merging PDF files into one big file.    Environment:  Red Hat enterprise LINUX, Apache, Tomcat, J2EE, Struts 2.0, CGI/PERL 5.8, modperl, DBI, DBD::Oracle; shell scripts,  Eclipse, HTML,CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, ORACLE 11i, SQL, Linux Shell Scripting, Agile Methodology.    Responsibilities:  • Review the requirements, efforts estimation  • Design and prototype the user interface (as web pages - wireframes)  • Design and write necessary PERL scripts, build, and deliver the code  • Write necessary SQL, PL/SQL code and procedures.  • Write JavaScript / HTML pages for the reports and presentations  • Review test plans and test cases, guide the testers when necessary    PROQuest Sr. Software Engineer January 2011 to July 2012 ETD Admin is the application on the web which helps universities and institution publish, print, archive and billing for the students and other members who want to publish their research papers. The institutes being from all over the  world, this web site is multi-lingual.    Environment:    Page ! 2 of 9  udaymdesai@gmail.com  Red Hat LINUX, Apache, CGI/PERL 5.8.8, with Embedded Perl, DBI, DBD::Oracle; shell scripts, OO-Perl, Eclipse,  HTML,CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Sybase, ORACLE 11i, SQL, Linux Shell Scripting, Strict Agile Methodology.    Responsibilities:  • Review the requirements, efforts estimation  • Write necessary PERL scripts, build, and deliver the code  • Write necessary SQL, PL/SQL code and procedures.  • Review Test Cases and help or guide the testers when necessary  • Level 3 Production support to maintain current version of the web site in production.    Alpineaccess.com Sr. Software Engineer Alpineaccess.com - Denver, CO August 2010 to December 2010 Alpineacces.com is the website of this company and it's all business and IT operations are through this site. This  company provides the help desk and tele-support system to various clients including Amazon.com, Microsoft,  Citibank, Lowes, and many more. I am involved more in their reports creations and maintaining the invoicing  system.    Environment:  JSP, Eclipse, HTML, JavaScript, ORACLE 11i, SQL, PL/SQL, PERL, Linux Shell Scripting in zsh; JIRA.    Red Hat LINUX, Apache Tomcat, PERL/CGI, with DBI, DBD::Oracle; shell scripts,    Responsibilities:  • Review the requirements specification  • Write reports in JAVA, JSP, using Alpine's standard business layer.  • Write necessary PERL scripts, build, and deliver the code  • Maintenance of C++ routines, consolidating data from all four data feeds.  • Write necessary SQL, PL/SQL code and procedures.  • Write JavaScript / HTML pages for the reports and presentations C++ Developer NY Life - New York, NY January 2004 to September 2004 This is a client /server application for NY Life's underwriters and insurance agents. It queries, Insurance related data, from customer, and based on this, the software provides analysis and reports about the Premium and some guidelines  to the agents, and eventually to customer about the appropriate range of policies, and gives recommendations towards the same. The client/server application written in C++ and VB, which is being converted into web-based application  with JAVA, JDK with ORACLE as the backend. The project development followed the agile development methodology    Responsibilities:  • Project Planning and tracking, Scope control and Scope Management    Page ! 5 of 9  udaymdesai@gmail.com  • Status Reporting, Communication management  • Conducting JAD sessions for requirements gathering and analysis  • System study for business process; Detail requirements study and analysis, develop Use Cases.  • Preparation of Project internal documents like, CRD (Customer Requirement document), CRAD (Customer  Requirements Allocation Document) Functional Specification.  • Creation, maintenance and monitoring of Traceability Matrix  • Creation of templates for change request, test case, test plan, requirement gathering, test report, design  document, requirement document; Preparation System Test Plan, Test Cases.  • Review of all Requirements, Test Documents as well as High level as well as Detail Design documents.  • Writing PL/SQL procedures, Packages and Database triggers  • Writing new code for EJBs with EJB 2.0 specs compliance.  • Maintenance of the COM based code and the UNIX backend code written in C and C++. Verizon Wireless June 2003 to December 2003 This is maintenance and enhance of the data collection and uploading, the data that is received, in flat file format through TCP/IP to central ORACLE database of Verzion Wireless. Checking and maintaining daily, weekly and monthly  billing data, updates on regular bases. Troubleshooting was one of the important and critical function in this  assignment. As a team lead was responsible for the data delivery, assigning the work to team members. Initiated and managed automation of data uploads, training to team members on PERL, and ETL as per the necessities. Presenting the daily, weekly and monthly and reports, to management. Create and fine tune statistical and analysis reports. This  was developed in waterfall model of SDLC.    Responsibilities:  • Collect requirements from management and providing the solutions to their needs.  • System study for business process; Detail requirements study and analysis, develop Use Cases.  • Prepare the project plan, monthly, weekly and daily work schedules.  • Prepare Functional Specification, and update the same periodically as needed,  • Creation, maintenance and monitoring of Traceability Matrix  • Creation of templates for change request, test case, test plan, requirement gathering, test report, design  document, requirement document; Preparation System Test Plan, Test Cases.  • Review of all Requirements, Test Documents, High level as well as Detail Design documents.  • Writing SQL queries and PL/SQL procedures.  • Writing and get done the PERL scripts to collect and reformat data.  • Upload, the data to ORACLE using ETL. Configure and test the uploaded data for consistency. NCS Pearson October 2001 to May 2003 October 9th, 2001 - May, 2003)    ERISA filing system is the Data capture system for 5500 series forms for Department of Labor, SSA, PWBA, and IRS. This  system takes 5500 series forms and captures data from scanned images. There are multiple different input sources like Electronic filings etc. The essence of the system is to ensure the right data is captured and most efficient follow up with filer to complete the information, make it clean and hand over to government with proper classification. The  project was undertaken in the waterfall model SDLC    Responsibilities:  • Interaction with user and program groups to define requirements,  • Conducting JAD sessions for requirements gathering and analysis  • Detail requirements study and analysis; Detail Design Document  • System study for business process.  • Preparation of Project internal documents like, CRD (Customer Requirement document), CRAD (Customer  Requirements Allocation Document) Functional Specification etc  • Played key role in Data Modeling, redesign, with ERWIN.  • Designed and Wrote PERL application to automate the testing    Page ! 6 of 9  udaymdesai@gmail.com  • Creation, maintenance and monitoring of Traceability Matrix  • Creation of templates for change request, test case, test plan, requirement gathering, test report, design  document, requirement document; Preparation System Test Plan, Test Cases, and review the same  • Conducting and participating in FTR (Formal Technical Review)  • Software testing including Module and integration testing, System Testing and Acceptance Testing. Project Manager EDSHOP.COM - Ann Arbor, MI June 1999 to August 2001 This is development of a web based interactive office 2000 courses with 30-man team. The courses were developed  using Director 7.0, Flash 4.0, HTML and the backend was developed using, C++ on UNIX server. This followed fast  prototyping, UML methodology    Responsibilities  • Preparation of Work breakdown structure, Project planning based on the Work breakdown structure.  • Project management update and controlling to ensure on time delivery using MS Project.  • Preparation of WIP (Work in Progress) to derive the financial tracking report.  • Designed the software development plan as per the organization standards using  • Data Modeling - Conceptual Modeling, Logical Modeling and Physical Modeling.  • OOA and OOD with UML / UP approach.  • Designing database objects, data integrity, data Normalization, planning and estimating indexes, query  optimization, performance tuning, and implementing database security.  • System study involving study of procedures and recommending methods of optimization, covering batch  processing to real time etc.  • Co-ordination with onsite on the changing requirements, new developments etc.  • Preparation of internal documents e.g. Software Requirement and Software Design Document.  • Developed change management processes and controls and implemented them in the project.  • Handling project documentation as per the Quality assurance plan.  • Release wise risk analysis and preparation of risk management plan and contingency plan. NSK Corporation - Ann Arbor, MI August 1998 to May 1999 This application is to monitor the performance and quality of the services of the suppliers for NSK Corporation. The  system provides several management reports which serve as valuable input as a part of DSS. The system was developed  using ORACLE as backend. Front end was developed in C++, STL and analysis reports were done in C++. Shell scripting and PERL scripts are done. Other backend work was done in PL/SQL and C++ under AIX. This was done under waterfall  model.    Responsibilities  • Project planning based on the Work breakdown structure.  • Data Modeling - Conceptual Modeling, Logical Modeling and Physical Modeling.  • Designing database objects, data integrity, data Normalization, planning and estimating indexes, query  optimization, performance tuning, and implementing database security.  • System study involving study of procedures and recommending methods of optimization, covering batch  processing to real time etc.  • Revising and versioning scope of work between releases  • Co-ordination with onsite on the changing requirements, new developments etc.  • Preparation of internal documents e.g. Software Requirement and Software Design Document.  • Developed change management processes and controls and implemented them in the project.  • Release wise risk analysis and preparation of risk management plan and contingency plan. Project Manager NSK Corporation - Ann Arbor, MI July 1997 to July 1998 Page ! 7 of 9  udaymdesai@gmail.com  AS a part of the entire Y2K compliance and migration project, this project was to design and develop a tool to identify the y2k affected statements, migration requirement statements analyze the efforts requirements. This tool was  developed in C++ and Perl. For COBOL grammar parser, lex and yacc were used to generate parser and the same was  blown into the tool. For other conversions like, CICS and Easytrieve, the tool was developed in Perl. As a second part of the tool, it actually did patches in the existing, COBOL and EASYTRIEVE code.    Responsibilities  • Project planning based on the Work breakdown structure.  • Project management update and controlling to ensure on time delivery using MS Project.  • Preparation of WIP (Work in Progress) to derive the financial tracking report.  • System study involving study of procedures and recommending methods of optimization, covering batch  processing to real time etc.  • Revising and versioning scope of work between releases  • Co-ordination with onsite on the changing requirements, new developments etc.  • Developed change management processes and controls and implemented them in the project.  • Release wise risk analysis and preparation of risk management plan and contingency plan.  • Designed and developed tool to find date affected statements,  • Write tool putting substitute code. This tool was developed C++, on UNIX, YACC for COBOL Parser,  • Wrote PERL scripts, for enhancement, and Y2K fixes of Easytrieve, JCL and IDL code.  • Several shell scripts for packaging different pieces of software.    1. Systems Analysis and Design using SSADM,  2. SSADM using IEF,  3. SSADM using Turbo Analyst,    Page ! 8 of 9  udaymdesai@gmail.com  4. OBJECT ORIENTED PROGRAMMING With C++  5. Software Engineering and Software Project Execution Practices,  6. Software Engineering and Project Management Practices,  7. Software Quality Assurance - Concepts, needs and methods,  8. Computer Networking and Data Communications,  9. Migration from IBM Mainframe to Web based Intranet applications - for IBM Mainframe professionals and IT  division of US based organization    Page ! 9 of 9 Education Master's Skills AIX (5 years), C+ (9 years), data base (5 years), PERL, Python, Shell Scripting (9 years), SYBASE, ORACLE, SQL Server (10+ years) Additional Information PRIMARY SKILLS    I have built experience and demonstrated leadership in various competencies such as Project Management and  Leadership, Software Development, Programming, Requirements Analysis, Software Architecture, Data Modeling,  Systems Analysis and Design. I have expertise in various areas and technologies such as OOA, OOD, and UML, Agile,  Multi-tier architecture with PERL, OO-Perl, Oracle, JAVA, J2EE, C and C++ in UNIX and Linux as well as Windows  environment. I have led and managed web based software development project teams and I have excellent  communication and organizational skills. I also have the ability to work independently and deal with ambiguity, and can  also guide and lead software teams. Finally, I also have experience working with projects that follow SEI-CMM Level 3  guidelines and standards.    OTHER INDUSTRY KNOWLEDGE:  Good exposure to and knowledge of Cryptography. Automotive Industry, Insurance. Quantitative Analysis and  Modeling    TECHNICAL SKILLS SUMMARY  Operating Systems: HP - UX, UNIX - Sun Solaris, AIX, LINUX, UNIX AT & T  MS Windows NT 4.0, MS Windows 2000, XP, 98, 95.    ProgrammingC, C++ with STL, JAVA, J2EE, EJB, Servelts, JSP, JavaScript, Perl 5.004,  Languages: 5.8.8, 5.10.1 with DBD/DBI, XSV, XML-RPC, tt, HTML::Template, CGI,  embperl;  IDE:- Eclipse, NetBeans, VisualStudio, Dev-C++, Vim editor.  Web Skills HTML, JavaScript, jQuery, Apache, PERL / CGI    Frameworks: Struts 2.0. Familiarity with Spring.  RDBMS: MS-SQL Server 7.0, Oracle 7.3 with Pro*C 2.2, ORACLE 8 to 11g; Sybase;  DBI libraries, SQL and PL/SQL, DB2    Management Tools PS Project 2000, Ms Office suite  Other Tools PVCS, CVS, RCS, Perforce, SVN, ClearCase, CaliberRM, Remedy