NDT controls developer NDT controls <span class="hl">developer</span> Kyle, TX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience NDT controls developer TRI via Triple Crown - Austin, TX January 2017 to July 2017 Designed and programmed nondestructive testing control system that uses robotic ultrasound to scan aerospace components.  Used QT4 and Python 2.7, Numpy, and PySide to create GUI control system that operates on Windows 7, 10, And FreeBSD 10.x    Syntax Constructs Contract programmer Syntax Constructs - Austin, TX October 2014 to January 2017 Installing of Centos, Ubuntu, and Fedora Linux SOHO systems, network installation and trouble shooting, WiFI, and shared file systems between Unix and Microsoft environments.  Installation and training on software for my clients on these systems.  Printer and scanner installation and support.  Web camera system installation and support.  Python 3.4 and 2.7 Lead System Analyst Cooper Consulting May 2014 to September 2014 Analyze Texas HHS (Health and Human Services) PPS (Premium Payments System) to determine how stakeholder (TIERS and Medicare) data is used to determine payments to Health Care services, Transportation Brokers, and clients, and consult on new systems with improved system and client security, and automation of systems that use manual spreadsheet templates to generate payments of greater than $18 million a month.  Methodology included one to one interviews with agency, IT, and audit personnel, and analysis of internal IT documents, code, system architecture, and business rules.  Documents produced were diagrams of system architecture, network security interactions, tables of files input, output, and interchanged with other agencies and vendors. Documents detailing security flaws and recommended alleviation methods were produced, and documents detailing new process flows and pseudo code to convert manual processes to automated payment systems. PBX data analyst - HP Insight Global September 2013 to February 2014 Probing remote PBX systems maintained by HP for data about system, agent, and license usage. Using ssh and AVAYA OSSI commands sent via Perl scripts to fetch data and Python programs to analyze the hex data identity to identify variables and store into MS SQL server database. Analyze data from database and generate usage charts and reports. Used PIP, GIT, PEP8 coding standards. Analyst Cooper Consulting August 2013 to August 2013 Conducted forensic analysis of Texas DADS file transfers to determine possible insecure transfers of patient data and propose secure file transfers between Unix, Windows, and IBM mainframes inside and outside the agency. Co-wrote analysis documentation reported to the agency.    Syntax Constructs  12/2012- 7/2013  Installing and maintenance of SOHO systems including Centos, Ubuntu, and Fedora Linux, network installation and trouble shooting, WiFI and shared file systems.  Installation and training on software for my clients on these systems Cloud Server developer - Mezeo Triple Crown July 2012 to November 2012 Designed and wrote software to preform backend client provisioning and remote container creation and management for mobile and PC applications ('Apps'). This involved Python mod_wsgi s/w on Apache Linux servers (Centos on Amazon EC2 and Ubuntu) that interpreted HTML messages and contacted remote servers via HTML JSON to verify user credentials using Oauth, and then using CDMI/JSON messages to command the cloud based file servers to create the user's accounts and storage space. Resizing of user containers, changing user ACL access, deleting user accounts, and creating accounts for new users referred by the users are included in the software.  Used and created PIP eggs, GIT, PEP8 coding standards. Python 2.x  Ubuntu and RPM packaging of software for remote installations. Test Engineer - AMD Volt October 2011 to March 2012 Directed automated testing suite upon latest chips emerging from AMD foundries. Modified and augmented Perl and Python programs within testing farm suite.  Modified controlling databases using SQL generated via Python and Perl code, collected and analyzed data with Python programs using SQL queries from the database of data collected from the systems under tests. Generated Excell spreadsheets and Powerpoint slides reporting results. Buffalo Tech April 2011 to September 2011 Worked with Buffalo Tech. to create new Python interface and control systems for NAS devices  ? taught advanced Python to Buffalo Tech. employees  ? Created Nagios status interfaces at Cyrus Logic in for MS Sharepoint and Outlook services. Manpower Inc December 2009 to March 2011 12/2009-3/2011  Remote System control development - KEM Outdoors  Created WWW control interface for Billboard remote control systems (locally invented ARM systems) interconnected via wireless (cellphone network) tcp/ip sockets.  Wrote HTML with Javascript and Python CGI web control system on Apache, with MySQL backend, to provide web control of remote systems using active Google Maps for status, command, and control. Designed and used SQL database to provide customer accounting interface to the billboards the remotes controlled, and preserve long term status of systems.  Designed and programmed multithreaded daemon in Python (with C callouts) on RedHat 5.3 server that provides interface to remote devices and CGI programs.    Designed and programmed automatic upload system to update remote's firmware from RH host. Wrote automated hardware checkout system for remote devices  Administrated WWW server and hardware VPN system to the remote devices.  Wrote multiclient, variable privilege login system to allow customers employees to access the billboards and data related to them according to their privilege level.    Syntax Constructs Operator Interface Contract Programmer/Analyst Mosis Inc 2011 to 2011 May 1995- December 1996    • Developed and maintained control software for operator control of semiconductor clean room fabrication facility automated equipment  • VAX/VMS C, XWindows/Motif and XRT Table widget  • VMS control program interfaces through TCP/IP (posix socket level) to UNIX platforms to control equipment in real time  • Asynchronous communication programs to load and store PROMIS database  • Worked with other contractors and Motorola employees to test and expand software capability  • Trained users and worked with Motorola management to plan new software capabilities. Finite Element Analysis support - Friedman Research November 2008 to August 2009 Provided AMD cluster support for OpenSuSE 10.2 and Cray SLES 9.3 for use in multinode/multiprocessing (8 processors*6 nodes) apps to perform mathematical modeling and 3D motion animation of analysis of traffic accidents and vehicle reconstruction.  Configured and tested apps to run across desired number of nodes and processors in the cluster and Cray. Debugged and fixed X Windows display issues on Microsoft XP computers. Wrote OO Python software to repair a data problem in mid iteration that stopped model data from penetrating the virtual ground during roll over simulations. Worked multi-platform licensing issues with Flex-LM servers on W2K2003 machine. Wrote autodebug and automounting scripts to keep machines up in case of powerfail and other events.  Wrote GUI 3D display programs for displaying model data and for use in locally written applications. Documented use of gnuplot, gf, gcc, LS-DYNA, LS-OPT, LS-PREPOST, gd (graphics library), and 3d array libraries, and wrote example programs.  Used LS-DYNA, LS-OPT, LS-PREPOST, Altair Hyperware, gnuplot, Gnu FORTRAN, gcc, shell Scripts, and python Volt May 2008 to August 2008 XEN May 2006 to April 2008 Linux Testing  Tested XEN Virtualization hypervisors and guests running under XEN on AMD prototype Quad core systems. This involved writing and executing test plans, installing XEN hypervisors from XEN Source and AMD and testing them with multiple guests of varied operating systems. Within each O/S a number of tests and test suites are executed, and the results analyzed, including perusal of operating system logs. The test suite execution and results analysis are conducted through automation software I have written that looks for inconsistencies in test output and system files and emails the operators of situations that need to be examined.    Generated spreadsheets and SQL database of test results.    Coordinated and directed testing through the AppLabs group outsourced in India.    Built new guest images including test suites for AMD and AppLabs use.    Documentation of testing procedures, guest installations, guest use.  Documentation of XEN installation and use.    Build out hardware on various AMD, IBM, and HP chassis.  Tested networking between clients in virtual environments and physical machines elsewhere in the network.    Setup ssh environments to use withing the lab and corporate networks for remote access and file transfers between virtual and physical machines, both Linux and MS based.    Setup NFS networks to host clients (virtual machines), and to preform access tests.    Setup SMB networks for Microsoft clients on Linux hosts.    Setup self-contained (isolated) networks for Red Hat and Novell certification tests for XEN virtual machines and for new AMD platforms and obtained s/w, configured test suites and test configurations, and preformed the certification tests.    Operating systems used: Windows2003SP, Windows2003SP 64 bit, WindowsXPSP2, WindowsXPSP2 64bit, Windows Vista, Linuxes: SLES9.3, SLES10, SUSE10, SuSE10SP1 and 2 (various), various Red Hat from RHEL3 through RHEL5, Fedora, OpenSuSE, Ubuntu.    Languages used: Python, PERL, csh, bash, C, C++. Contract System Administrator ClubPhoto November 2005 to March 2006 Administered, upgraded, and tweaked distributed Linux (Fedora Core 3 and 4) computing environment of 50 servers for extensive digital and photographic image manipulation system. Built up and installed server hardware consisting of multiprocessor Intel Xeon and AMD Opteron systems with 8 GB RAM and 1.5 Terabyte RAID 5 disc arrays. Designed and implemented LVS (Linux Virtual Server) system for company WWW presence, using 2 high availability virtual servers and 8 real servers. Maintained and tuned SpamAssassin, Postfix, Sendmail company wide, as well as configuring and upgrading Linux systems. Used Python, Perl, sh, and C programs to implement new security and health monitoring systems, including Nagios interfaces. Used gnuplot to track system performance and external attack modalities. Heavily involved in network security.    Syntax Constructs Contract Linux tester Microsoft XP and Office June 2005 to November 2005 installation and training. Wiring, installation, configuration of Small Office and Home networks using Linux (Red Hat FC4) with SAMBA to Microsoft PC's    Dell  Contract Linux tester  9/2004 - 6/2005    • Stress test SuSE SLES9 Linux on Dell servers according to test suites. This includes kernel configuration, network services configuration and modification (such as channel bonding, NFS, SAMBA); H/W and S/W RAID configuration and testing; external and internal peripherals  • ?odify hardware configuration of servers for tests, swapping out motherboards, drives, cards  • Write new scripts for testing ( Python, csh, bash, Perl, sed)  • Automate testing  • Classify and report bugs on Bugzilla  • Research new technology, including NFS4 and XEN, for testing regimes  • Build and install packages from source and RPM binaries    Syntax Constructs ISP Network Support for Solaris December 2001 to September 2004 • Cisco IOS maintenance  • ISP Network Support for Solaris, Red Hat Linux  • Windows 98, ME, 2000 software support  • PC hardware installation for Dell, Gateway, whitebox PC's  • FreeBSD system administration, Python development, GCC C/C++ development, gdb debugging  • Open Source Python code maintenance  • Research in Cellular Automata using multitask ed Python and C  • Migration of users from Windows ME and 98 to FreeBSD Contract Data Center Support 2003 to 2003 Microsoft 2000, XP Pro, RedHat, and SuSE server support at Dell worldwide data centers in Austin/Round Rock. Supported world wide users, customers, engineers, and programmers by taking calls electronically and via phone from center in Singapore and implementing repairs locally.  Duties included: replacing hardware (discs, motherboards, fiber and nic cards), building hardware and installing systems into racks; trouble shooting and repairing WAN and LANs; remotely logging in to restart processes and services, repair registries, install s/w and drivers, update BIOSes and firmware on virtually every generation of Dell hardware. Manipulated LDAP, SCSI and SATA RAIDs, debugged, started, and diagnosed ORACLE services on Linux.    AMD Contract C, C++ Seismic data system developer Input Output May 2001 to November 2001 • Develop and maintain VME based multiprocessor system for gathering seismic exploration data using OS/2 Warp 4 VisualAge C/C++ compiler.  • Gcc and gdb debugging of C/C++ code  • Modified and added components of production GUI system.  • Added automatic fill in and mathematic computations of Latitude/Longitude to spheroid (survey projection) conversions GUI  • Programmed 3D shot and receiver location functionality.  • Added shot and receiver location data form translations.  • Perl, bsh, and Rexx scripting for VxWorks, NT, and OS/2.  • Design internal data structures for CORBA.  • Solved hardware and system issues for distribution of production system.  • Developed multiprocessor interprocessing applications via CORBA.  • Developed socket level OS/2 to VxWorks interactions.  • Analyzed, designed, developed internal proprietary databases for coordination of geological, geophysical, and geophysical data.  • Cross platform development of OS/2 apps to NT Contract Python, C++ Developer Silicon Metrics Corporation October 2000 to January 2001 • Develop software for parsing Liberty circuit design libraries to produce Silicon Smart Models(TM SMC).  • Insert FlexLM licensing into Python and C++ software  • Setup InstallAnywhere procedures.  • Developed for HP, Solaris, Linux, FreeBSD UNIX systems.  • Develop parallel Make on multiple network processors Contract Visual C++ Developer Eagle Traffic Control Systems October 1999 to August 2000 • Analyze, design, code, enhance NT based distributed traffic control system in Visual C++  • Program system processes to translate Crystal Reports csv files  • Program Perl scripts to analyze and reformat data in csv form for import into Excel  • Code MS Visual C++ to acquire data, call external Perl shell scripts and Visual C++ to pass data on to user databases and/or printers.  • Trouble shoot and fix automated modem connectivity to field traffic controllers in Visual C++ and with direct customer support  • Experiment with different modems and their configurations  • Design advanced automated traffic response systems in Visual C++  • Advanced logging in Visual C++  • Designed the SQL database to store and access logged engineering, timing, and system level data  • Implemented orthogonal data storage in SQL to allow storage and access of arbitrary data defined by the programmers using the logger.  • COM/DCOM and ACCESS SQL database  • OS/2 support and C code development of MONARC traffic control systems with interprocess communications  • Migrate OS/2 code to Windows systems Contract C Developer SPEC Systems & Processes Engineering Corporation September 1998 to September 1999 • UNIX server side application for Air Force aireal email capabilities and mobile ground crews via COMSAT satellite.  • Developed modem bank for satellite phone communications  • Developed parallel processes providing security and assured communication  • Designed and implemented internal databases for storing and managing data  • POSIX socket process communications between main applications and terminal drivers.  • Porting of Windows applications for satellite communications to Solaris 2.7  • C, PERL, Solaris 2.5, 2.6, 2.7, Sun C compilers, Sun Licensing, X25 drivers, X Windows, gcc, gdb, Visual Source Safe, serial port and kernel configuration.  • H/W Sparc 20, Ultrasparc 10, SCSI terminal servers, US Robotics modems Contract HP-UX System Administrator Texas Department of Information Resources June 1997 to July 1998 • Administer large Informix database engine on HP 9000/800, HP-UX 10.20  • Administer small state agencies on server, manage users, database, network and system tasks.  • Rebuild/reconfigure kernel to support large number of users and large amount of transaction.  • Migration of Unisys mainframe database applications to HP-UX on Informix and C  • Automate backups of file systems and Informix  • Implement tape backup plan  • Implement security, network firewalls  • Automate monitoring of system resources and logs  • Used PERL, csh, Bourne shell, ksh, C, gdb, XWindows, SAM, Glance Plus, Unisom Road Runner backup scripts  • Automated logoff of idle users idle  • Monitor process to reduce priority of tasks consuming excessive CPU time.  • Setup FTP servers for vendor access.  • Automated email notification of order placement via PC to UNIX csh scripts. Contract Client Technician TDHS February 1997 to June 1997 • Year 2000 conversion project  • Implement Software Configuration Management  • Analyst on SCM conversion team  • Interview customers in preparation to converting PC's to Harvest SCM tools and Windows95  • Upgraded client's hardware as needed (install disc drives, RAM, network cards),  • Upgraded client's software.  • Trained users in use of SCM tools, and customer support  • Trained clients in SCM and Y2k philosophies and techniques  • Instructed support staff on how to set up Win95 to serve as Novell print hosts.  • Win95 to UNIX database interfacing.  • Porting of Unisys mainframe apps to Win95  • Harvest, Win3.1 Win95, WinNT, PERL, Netscape and MS Netexplorer HTML. Web page Author/Analyst Merlin Group March 1995 to May 1995 • Designed and implemented WWW pages for automatically download of IBM product upgrades to their machines.  • CGI interfaces in PERL to verify customer authorization, through DB2 database of customer products and support plans  • Transmit appropriate software upgrades to the registered users via web services to the customer machines. TDHS Remote Communications Analyst Geologics-Texas Dept October 1994 to March 1995 • pcANYWHERE Analyst statewide  • pcANYWHERE for DOS and Windows through Novel WANs and LANs.  • Modem and dial up consulting and support for Help Desk and Network Trouble Shooting Unit at Austin H.Q. and statewide  • OS/2 Warp to Internet/WWW consultations and analysis.  • LAN troubleshooting for pcANYWHERE problems through routers, T1 lines, and IPX network.  • Documentation of procedures and installations  • Training of users and Analysts for pcANYWHERE and general modem communications  • Interface Texas StarCard (pcANYWHERE app) to state databases on UNISYS mainframes GSDE System Administrator Cimarron Incorporated October 1993 to July 1994 Subcontracted to LORAL MSC    • MSC/GSDE (Manned Spacecraft Center/Ground Systems Development Environment) Space Station Control Center System Administration and network analysis  • Install and support of DEC Alphas and OSF/1 and OSF/2;  • DEC Ultrix boxes of several flavors using Ultrix 4.4.  • Maintenance of NASA's Ground System Development Environment  • Networking using FDDI, ethernet, TCP/IP, UDP, and mail protocols  • Install and support several client/server architecture's, including X11R4, Motif, Interleaf, Teamwork, Builder Xcessory, Network File Systems (NFS), Kerberos, Yellow Pages (NIS).  • General user support including Help Desk.  • Bourne (bsh) and csh scripts to support sys. admin., Security, Configuration Management, Space Station networked data broadcast and multicast protocols  • C programming to interface with backups using dump to alleviate the need for system administrator intervention  • Net surfing to obtain public domain resources to support GSDE, FreeBSD (BSD 4.4), X11R5, OpenLook, Gnome GDK and Gtk, and InterView, Port GNU C++ to GSDE and DOS systems, PERL, gzip, gnutar, gdb and several other gnu packages.  • Downloaded and made extensive use of Mosaic for traversing the Internet (note this is at the beginning of public WWW access) Systems Analyst Dual Incorporated June 1990 to September 1993 • System administrator  • Network Guru  • Computer Security Officer  • Gensym AI, C, and UNIX shell script programmer for NASA's Real Time Data Systems (RTDS) project  • AI techniques (G2), 3D graphics, X Windows, and Motif  • TCP/IP networks to provide loosely coupled parallel processing of Space Shuttle telemetry data to UNIX workstations.of many different vendors  • Programmed Loral System ADS500 firmware for RTDS data demultiplexing/decommutation  • Responsible for loosely coupled parallel processing on the network using pipes, semaphores, and remote procedure calls to the G2 AI. system.  • Designed, implemented, and maintained ethernet and fiber optic network for RTDS  • Configured IBM compatible PC's with X Windows and TCP/IP to access the RTDS network  • Responsible for the Emergency Mission Control Center  • Design, implement, build, and certification of Shuttle flight parameter databases  • Train flight controllers  • Built automated telemetry database builder for ADS 500.  • Invented CCC/JIN GATEWAY (superlative firewall) interface between the Mission Control Center and the Johnson Space Center Information Network  secure flight telemetry and processed data to flight controllers and researchers at JSC and NASA sites  • Automated methods for preventing access by hackers, worms, inappropriate access. Automated computer security sweeps across network to look for break-in attempts, weak passwords, improper file permissions, and unauthorized sticky bits.  • Hardware maintenance of workstations and network equipment.  • User support/Flight Operations Support  • Configure the RTDS network to support Shuttle flight controllers using the RTDS system  • Monitor data flow and network health  • Assist controllers in any way possible, including trouble shooting, starting applications, debugging applications and procedures, and switching data flow among redundant data paths.  • C; C++, gdb;Bourne shell; C shell; X Windows; Motif  • G2 - Artificial Intelligence application and display generator programming and interfacing to C programs external to AI applications  • TCP/IP - Ethernet, FDDI  • Network Administrator for 50 workstations on 4 subnets, as well as interface to external subnets  • Automated system administration tasks across the network to sweep junk files from discs, generate alerts of full discs, overloaded systems, etc.  • Consulted and designed Network File System (NFS) setup and with 23 GByte EPOCH file servers. Consulted with Information Systems Directorate about RTDS network design through out JSC, and ECP design within JSC Manned Control Center    Hardware:  DEC 5000, 3100, ALPHA  Sun Sparc 2,3, IPC, IPX  Silicon Graphics,  Masscomp/Concurrent 6600  Loral ADS System 500,550,100  Cisco AGS+, CGS  PC clones, 80X86    Awards Won:  Federal Leadership Award  Johnson Space Center GEM (Going the Extra Mile) Award Senior Graphics Programmer Stratamodel February 1988 to May 1990 • Designed and implemented 3D visualization for STRATAMODEL (Stratigraphic Geocellular Modeling)  • GKS 2D plot calls to display a 3D image  • Geological and Geophysical models of rock stratigraphy, and the attributes associated with each 3D model object (cells).  • Proprietary relational databases distributed on the network.  • FORTRAN on a DECNET networked micro-VAX GPX workstation  INTERGRAPH Clipper workstations, Silicon Graphics C, GL library  • Also translated STRATAMODEL displays to PHIGS for transportable 3D and better performance than the GKS based system.  • System Administrator on micro-VAX GPX, micro-VAXII, and Intergraph Clipper.  • Migration of Stratamodel to Intergraph and Silicon Graphics Technical Support Engineer Precision Visuals Inc August 1987 to January 1988 • Technical support engineer of south central United States  • Installed and customized Precision Visuals products (DI3000, GK2000, PicSure, Draw, Enter/Act, and the Drivers for all the graphical devices)  • Assisted customers with applications using these products, provided phone consultation, and on site assistance.  • Supported customers directly on VAX/VMS, IBM VM/CMS, IBM MVS/TSO, SUN2 and SUN3 (UNIX), Prime, Tektronix, APOLLO UNIX, DEC/DCL, TSO/VM  • Installed and customized device drivers for a wide variety of graphics devices  Regular Expression Compilers to parse source code in order to make rapid and massive updates to code on customer sites.  • Developed and demonstrated applications in DI3000(CORE standard), DI3000 XP/M, GK2000(GKS certified), PicSure presentation Graphics, and DRAW CAD/CAM system.  • Consulted on internal development of PHIGS type packages  • Assisted customers in translating applications from one graphics system to another.  • Gave classes in product use and productivity with the products. Contract Programmer/Analyst General Electric SSTD - Research Triangle Park, NC February 1987 to July 1987 • Programmed PHIGS in C for GRAPHICON graphics engine at GE  • Developed host to workstation interface and command code under UNIX on CONVEX minicomputer (M68020's) and VAX 11/785 under VMS  interface and command sequences for NS32032 and gate array processor on GRAPHICON  • Created first functional version of PHIGS(3D) on the GRAPHICON  • Made several design changes which resulted in faster execution and versatility of PHIGS while maintaining standards implementation.  • Used SCCS for C code configuration control. Contract Analyst/Robotics Programmer Northern Telecom Inc - Research Triangle Park, NC July 1985 to July 1986 • Analyzed automated digital line card assembly line to make improvements in assembly quality control  • Designed real time thermographic imaging system for the Infrared Ovens for automatic control of the IR lamps  • HP1000 A900 computers using RTE-A operating system and FORTRAN77.  • Augmented factory automation statistics collection in FORTRAN to collect test/repair data for digital telephone line cards, analyze the data to pin-point the type of problems that occur and trace back the problems to the part of the production line where the problem originated and report for DMS100 line card production.  • FORTRAN7X on HP900A, RTE-A operating system. Programmer/Analyst II TENNECO OIL, Exploration and Production October 1982 to June 1985 • Analyst and development programmer for Seismic production research group  • Maintenance and development of Western Geophysical Corporation seismic and geophysical suite  • Analyst in charge of user support for Seismic Research Group  • Adaptation of tasks to run interactively under TSO/ISPF as well as batch processing.  • Development of Distributed Data Processing vector plotting FORTRAN code to access DB2 database to store geographical and geological data for accessing seismic field data.  • Implementation and support of geophysical interpretation tasks  • Transmit image data to be displayed on the IEPS/VAX Intergraph system  • Interfaced IBM mainframes to VAX 11/780 using HASP network  • Ported CALCOMP code from VAX to IBM 3083.  • Created interface for LOGIC SCIENCE Inc. High Speed Rasterizers on AMDAHL  • Interfaced Tektronix plotters to Amdahl V8 with Plot 10 software over local network to Western Geophysical interactive geophysics software  • Interfaced CALCOMP plotters and controllers to IBM 3083's and AMDAHL V8 over SNA and telephone communications lines  • Wrote software to handle EBCDIC to ASCII conversions and handshaking  AMDAHL V8 mainframe under IBM MVS and JESS 2  • Migration of seismic apps from IBM MVS to VAX/VMS Programmer/Analyst Geophysical Systems Corporation January 1982 to September 1982 Develop utilities for processing of 3-D 1024 channel, sign magnitude seismic data  MAP multiprogrammed and I/O independent array processors  • Adaptation of Seismic Service Corporation SEISMAP to GSC processing  • seismic trace event enhancement  • mute panel creation for analyzing the accuracy of SSC mute processing  coordinate analysis and interpretation  • interpretive plots produced via the Logic Science HSR 11-M raster computer to the Versatek electrostatic plotter.  • VAX 11/780 & 11/750, VMS ver. 2.5  • Interface multiple VAXes and Versatek raster plotters over custom bus peer to peer network.  • Analyst and author of GSC's Software and Documentation standard to institute structured design and programming methodology. ANALYST Tetra Tech, Inc February 1981 to November 1981 • Geophysical and geological analysis and design for Geological Data  • Develop routines to generate contour maps and other displays from data base data files.  • Creation of application routines for interpolation, mapping, and seismic datum extraction.  • Linkage of Geophysical and Geological Data Bases for COMEX Synthetic Seismogram Modeling Package.  • Studies for acquisition of word processors for TETRA TECH  analysis of legal and sales problems as related to promotion of Data Processing products external to the company.  • Interface and program Tektronix, Houston Instrument, and CALCOMP plotters to CDC CYBERNET.  • CONTROL DATA CORPORATION'S IPF2 Data Base manager  • CYBERNET Network Operating System  • Overall assistance to users as needed, on usage of CDC 760/NOS. GEOPHYSICAL PROGRAMMER SEISCOM DELTA September 1978 to February 1981 • Wrote MEGASEIS display processor functions for VARIAN and SEISCHROME II plotters  • Designed and implemented auto generation of customer product tapes.  • Participated in VIS(Virtual Image System) analysis, design, and coding.  SEISCHROME II laser plotter at a maximum resolution of 1000 dots/inch  Extensive use and cooperation with Logic Sciences for development of HSR for this purpose.  • Design and coding of Dedicated Memory DEMUX processor for Seismic demultiplexing processing  • Develop multitasking DEMUX operation while running at tape speed (as demonstrated at 1980 SEG)  • Write drivers and bus interfaces for SEL to Versatek raster plotters. Interfaced Tektronix plotters to ASCII interface of local area network from Gould/SEL  MICROMAP (NORTH STAR) TO SEL interfaces (and COMPLOT PEN PLOTTER).  FORTRAN IV, PASCAL, SEL AND Z80 ASSEMBLY.  • Assisted my manager in FORTRAN 77 ANSI committee requirement studies.  • Hardware used: SEL 32/77 Mini Computer with 16 Mbyte under MPX operating system. SEISCHROME II high resolution laser plotter. (1000 dots/inch) HSR-11 high speed rasterizer. STAFF PROGRAMMER Geophysical Data Processing Company September 1977 to August 1978 SEISMIC, SYSTEM Programming.  • Maintenance of Geophysical (MERCURY 100) Package and Frequency Domain Migration(FREEDOM); coding of A.G.C., Gross, Decibel, and straight line scaling routines; filtering and N.M.O. routines, and I/O routines for moving head disc. • • • • Wrote disc oriented seismic demultiplexing program. Wrote 9 and 21 track tape drivers. Education Ba. in Math Science and Psychology Rice University 1977