Software Analyst III Software Analyst III Sugar Land, TX I am a Geo-Scientific Subsurface Data Analyst and Manager, as well as an experienced FORTRAN, C and C++ Software Developer. Over a period of many years I have provided excellent value to many companies on numerous projects (40+), illustrating a great versatility in accepting different challenges, as well as abilities to fit into teams of all sizes and compositions. My experiences have included work with many different Seismic and Well data management systems and databases. A few examples would include design of master data repositories, data loading, data migrations, standardization of log curve names, debugging geo-scientific application issues for users and many others. Additionally, I am a Subject Matter Expert (SME) when it comes to Geo-Data types. I have mastery of a number of scripting languages, such as Perl, AWK, C Shell and Python, which have allowed for the automation of many work flows, thus saving significant labor and time. I have written a number of data mapping (aka connectors) applications with the C, C++ and PL/SQL programming languages. My skill set is built on a solid foundation of an MS in Geology (Geophysics concentration). Products I have significant experience with include Halliburton Landmark's DecisionSpace Geosciences, DecisionSpace Integration, WOW and Web Portal Services, OpenWorks R5000, Power Explorer, Advanced Data Transfer and WOW, Schlumberger Prosource, Petris Winds Enterprise (PWE), SMT's Kingdom, CGG's Trango physical records management system and ESRI's ArcGIS. To a lesser degree I have experience with Schlumberger's Geoframe and Petrel, Tibco's OpenSpirit and Halliburton Landmark's Recall borehole data management system. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Analyst III Core Laboratories - Houston, TX May 2017 to August 2017 Software Analysis III  Provided an automated field receipt billing program utilizing the SQL-Server Management System (SSMS) and Microsoft's Visual Basic for Application (VBA) for MS Access and Excel. The input is an Excel file containing data on company products sold and their ID values as well as a few standard bits of header information. My program uses this to query the company's SQL-Server business data base for items such as cost, supervising personnel, client and other details. This application packages the information into an output Excel spreadsheet and then mails it to the billing department for execution.  Developed a complex query against an SQL-Server database to return quantitative information regarding quantity of billing of a certain category of products as both a function of time (over months, years) and customers. This was created for the CFO in order to aid in strategic marketing decisions.  A second complex query that I created showed the total number of billable items and the last billable date per oil well.  Began work on the migration of Core Labs software applications from the Subversion source control system to Microsoft's Team Foundation Server (TFS).  Helped fixed several bugs in the accounting spreadsheets. Data Analyst and Python Programmer General Dynamics - New Orleans, LA October 2015 to May 2017 Provide user support at the Bureau of Ocean Energy Managment (BOEM) for the Geoframe, Prosource and Opensprit geo-scientific applications. Developed a license tracking application with the Python scripting language. Currently working on a project to convert a software system written in the C programming language to same writing in the Python scripting Language. Geo-Science Data Analyst The GeoComputing Group November 2014 to June 2015 I was involved in the migration of BHP Billiton's Geo-scientific applications (e.g. DecisionSpace, OpenWorks, Petrel, Kingdom, etc.) and associated data to a new hardware installation off-site. This included the testing of appropriate work flows pre-migration and post-migration.  I created the design for a Master Data Repository and associatedWork flows for Ecopetrol, including institution of quality control processes for their seismic and well data. Geo-Science Data Analyst RoQC Data Management April 2014 to November 2014 I managed quality control cleanups of Landmark Openworks (Oracle) databases, particularly log curve data, at Anadarko Petroleum Company, utilizing RoQC (www.roqc.no) tools. Geo-Science Data Analyst and Software Engineer Landmark Software Services May 2012 to April 2014 A java based web services application for Pemex was developed thus allowing for the direct querying of Landmark's PowerHub seismic navigation data store. This resulted in automation of work-flows, thus saving a great amount of labor in producing results for analysis as compared with previous piecemeal procedures. Additionally I engaged at Shell where I configured data transfer and syncing procedures utilizing Landmark's Advanced Data Transfer (ADT) application and proprietary Corporate Date Store (CDS) to move information from Shell's proprietary offshore Oracle production database to CDS. Geo-Science Data Analyst Shell International Exploration and Production January 2012 to March 2012 Ensured synchronization of data between Oracle and SQL Server databases at Shell. This was done for a great variety of production data subsets with the development of distributed SQL queries that hit against both databases. The degree of data match was measured with a Landmark data quality tool, IQM. Geo-Science Data Analyst and Software Engineer Devon Energy Corporation May 2011 to December 2011 Developed software programs in Python and Visual Studio C++/CLI. These applications performed relevancy searches through PDF files containing lease information. I also wrote a SEGY seismic data reader application which calculated Q.C. metrics for display in Excel spreadsheets, utilizing Visual Studio C++/CLI inter-op capabilities. Geo-Science Software Engineer GeoKinetics September 2005 to June 2011 Maintained and extended Velans, the company's velocity analysis application. This is written in the C and FORTRAN programming languages and the X, Xt and Motif graphical development environments. Additionally, I converted Velans from a data file based system to one consisting of a relational database repository (MYSQL). Data I/O is provided by means of the MYSQL API embedded within C programs. Geo-Science Data Analyst Marathon Oil Company November 2010 to May 2011 Data Analyst on the team upgrading the company's geoscience interpretation applications, Landmark OpenWorks and SeisWorks, projects from the R2003 to the R5000 levels. My SQL*PLUS skills, as well as those with PowerExplorer and WOW (Landmark tools) were extremely valuable in providing quality control analysis of the data. ArcGIS was utilized to compare pre and post upgrade shape files representing well locations and 2d and 3d survey outlines. Geo-Science Data Analyst SAIC January 2009 to November 2010 Provided user support for the Petris Winds Enterprise (PWE) product purchased by BP.  PWE is a comprehensive text and GIS map-based search engine and data integration system which interacts with various data formats, stored in Oracle databases or in file systems. Associated responsibilities included acceptance testing as it was brought on board to insure its accuracy and reliability. My SQL*PLUS skills and deep knowledge of geoscientific data models was critical in validating the migration of data from one format to the other (e.g., wells logs from Recall to OpenWorks). Additionally, I gained important skills as the back up person for the Recall Borehole Data Management System.  I replaced a number of UNIX based C Shell scripts with Perl scripts which interrogated Landmark's File Management System (FMS) Oracle database to identify potential issues with their SeisWorks file distributions. This greatly decreased computer time required to obtain this information, thus freeing the company's server resources. Creator of Scientific Test Datasets Paradigm Geophysical - Houston, TX November 2008 to December 2008 I created SeisWorks data sets, using Landmark tools, for the software testing group in order to verify the accuracy of their data transfer utility. Data Analyst and Perl Scripter Devon Energy Corporation - Houston, TX September 2004 to October 2008 Usage of ArcGIS tools was an important part of my job, including the writing of VBA (ArcObjects based) programs, used for additional data analysis. I was also involved in GIS (Geographic Information System) web development, utilizing GeoCortex products, resulting in software tools extremely useful in the tracking of the company's assets, including leases and wells.  I managed the corporate seismic (Oracle) data base, Trango, which included the quality control maintenance and loading of data. Additionally, I created many Perl scripts which were extremely valuable in my efforts in automating work-flows. Geo-Science Software Engineer Rock Solid Images November 2004 to June 2005 Developed a parser which converts text based mathematical expressions, defined by the user, into a form suitable to produce numerical results (vector and scalar) within a logging analysis software application (IMOSS). This was accomplished with programming tools such as Visual C++ and the Qt C++ application development framework including usage of its container classes, menubar elements and pulldown dialogs. Geo-Science Software Engineer Seismic Micro Technology June 2003 to September 2004 Responsible for the enhancement and maintenance of the Tunnel L/L+ software which provides for two way data transfers between Landmark's OpenWorks/SeisWorks and SMT's TKS seismic interpretation databases. This application requires high level programming with both UNIX and Visual Studio's C++ (with MFC) development languages. Geo-Science Software Engineer Reservoir Geophysical Corporation July 2003 to July 2003 As a software developer, I optimized a seismic processing program written in C. Geo-Science Software Engineer self employed February 2001 to May 2003 I built a Visual Studio C++ application for well logging tool calibrations, making full use of Microsoft Foundation Classes (MFC). This required the real time reading of sensors such as magnetometers, accelerometers and others. This project greatly strengthened my abilities as a developer of graphical user interfaces Geo-Science Data Analyst and Oracle Programmer Seitel Inc September 2002 to February 2003 Helped manage the company's seismic navigation data with Oracle's SQL*PLUS scripting and PL/SQL programming. These activities were essential in mapping information into Seitel's PPDM data model based database, thus allowing the company to optimally offer their valuable survey information to customers. I was also a critical member of their services team. For example, I spent time at one of their best customers (Iron Mountain) mapping attributes from that company's data model into Seitel's. Geo-Science Software Engineer GeoKinetics October 2001 to February 2002 Maintained and extended EtView the company's seismic viewer application. This is written in the C and FORTRAN programming languages and the X, Xt and Motif graphical development environments. PL/SQL Programmer The Information Architects - Houston, TX February 2001 to October 2001 I was part of a team developing a business portfolio management tool, on-site at Conoco. My knowledge of Oracle data modeling issues provided essential support for this project. Another role was to convert programs written with Visual Basic into same created with PL/SQL. These programs were run as stored packages and procedures, thus greatly decreasing the time of execution. Geo-Science Software Engineer Resolve Geosciences November 2000 to April 2001 Developed a (Landmark Graphics) SeisWorks scanner with the C++ programming language on UNIX. Geo-Science Data Analyst and Oracle Programmer WesternGeco February 1998 to February 2001 The management of distributed database instances was significantly improved with the creation of Oracle synchronization tools by myself. This allowed scientists rapid and accurate access to their information from locations all over the globe. Furthermore, I created data loaders which migrated information stored in several flat (not normalized) tables into the company's physical records management system known as Expeditor. This database and its tools were used to keep track of the company's seismic assets. All of these products were developed utilizing Oracle's PL/SQL and SQL*PLUS scripting and programming languages. These ran as standalone applications or stored procedures. Geo-Science Data Analyst and Software Engineer Landmark Graphics August 1996 to February 2001 Worked on the OpenWorks project upgrade software where I gained considerable experience with Oracle PL/SQL programming and SQL*PLUS scripting, as well as knowledge of the OpenWorks database. I also wrote Landmarks General Units Converter (GUC) and Special Units Editor (SUE) programs used to modify and edit engineering units. Additionally, I performed considerable software development (especially on the Curve Loader) and maintenance work on the rest of the OpenWorks data loading applications. These were all done with a combination of C++ and Oracle coding. Data Modeler/Data Analyst Petris Technology - Houston, TX November 1999 to November 1999 12/199  Geo-Science Data Modeller  I utilized Oracle data mapping tools to help the company create a common data model for their Winds well logs repository. This was enabled by my excellent knowledge of Oracle  Database modelling and technology, particularly in terms of normalizing data. Geo-Science Software Engineer Landmark Graphics May 1997 to August 1997 Developed an IES (GeoQuest Interpretation System) scanner so that the company could eliminate duplicate data before upgrading to IESX. Software Developer Cogent Solutions, Inc - Houston, TX June 1996 to November 1996 Geo-Science Software Engineering  I was the developer on a project to create a data management solution for the Oil and Gas industry. It utilized Facet Systems spreadsheet interface into Oracle databases. Scientific Programmer Exxon Research - Houston, TX October 1995 to September 1996 Geo-Science Software Engineering  Worked on a seismic attributes program with the C and FORTRAN programming languages. Geo-Science Software Engineer and Oracle Forms Developer Amoco Production Company September 1995 to August 1996 Worked on many seismic processing modules developed in the C programming language as well as some graphical user interface development in Motif  I developed a geo-archival tool with Oracle Forms 4.5. Upgraded Oracle Forms 3.0 applications to version 4.5. Scientific Programmer Schlumberger/GeoQuest - Houston, TX April 1995 to September 1995 Geo-Science Software Engineering  Worked on the IESX (GeoQuest Interpretation System) Geoshare sender half link utilizing the C programming language. This allowed for export of IESX data to 3rd party databases. Also, I was part of a team developing the ASCII well data exporter for the basic IESX framework. Scientific Programmer GX Technology - Houston, TX February 1995 to August 1995 Geo-Science Software Engineering  Developed Geoshare sender and receiver half links for Company's geoscience software products utilizing C programming. This allowed for transfer of data from and to GX repositories and 3rd party databases. Scientific Programmer Q.C. Tools - Houston, TX September 1994 to May 1995 Geo-Science Software Engineering  A principal C programmer responsible for the development of the Opus TZ data acquisition software built with the C programming language. Integral to this project was the creation of graphical user interfaces based on Motif and Xt protocols. Scientific Programmer Amoco Production Company - Houston, TX March 1994 to October 1994 Geo-Science Software Engineering  Converted IBM mainframe programs to the Unix Environment with C and Open PL/1 development. Created a character based interface utilizing UNIX curses. Scientific Programmer Schlumberger/GeoQuest - Houston, TX August 1992 to March 1994 Geo-Science Software Engineering  Developed entirely the IES (Geoquest interpretation system) Geoshare receiver half link with the C programming language. This allowed for transfer of data into IES formats from 3rd party databases. Scientific Programmer The Louisiana Land and Exploration Company - Houston, TX April 1991 to August 1992 Geo-Science Software Engineering  Built a great variety of seismic interpretation and data manipulation software tools through the use of the C and FORTRAN programming languages. Scientific Programmer CogniSeis Development, Inc - Houston, TX April 1989 to April 1991 Geo-Science Software Engineering  Developed Batch and Interactive Disco Seismic Processing modules. Worked on the BRAVO AVO software package. All activities were done with the C and FORTRAN programming languages. Research Associate and Scientific Programmer SynTek, Inc - Bay Saint Louis, MS January 1986 to March 1989 Scientific Software Engineering  Developed acoustical modeling software utilizing FORTRAN and C for the Navy. Medical Sales Representative Chesebrough Ponds Medical Division May 1981 to May 1983 Won admittance to The Command Performers Club awarded to top five salemen within the company for 1982.  Half of my compensation that year was in commission money. Territory Manager Wyeth Laboratories May 1978 to May 1981 Top Percentage Sales Increase for District Wyeth Laboratories 1979 to 1980 Top Dollar Volume Increase for District, 1980  Won top bonus allowable, 1979, 1980 Education Master of Science in Geology University of New Orleans - New Orleans, LA Bachelor of Science in (Cum Laude), Chemistry Nicholls State University - Thibodaux, LA Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/edward-murphy-44a25a5 Military Service Branch: Navy Service Country: United States Rank: Radioman Third Class May 1968 to February 1972 Served on-board the USS Biddle DLG-34 Commendations: Some type of Vietnam Service Medal. Name unclear.