Web Developer Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Developer / Generalist Seattle, WA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Developer Amazon.com - Seattle, WA February 2018 to January 2019 • Developed software tools in Ruby, Node.js, XPath and XSLT for processing and modifying large  XML files (100+ Mb) to facilitate in content workflow of interactive dictionaries for the Kindle family of devices and mobile apps.  • Preformed data metrics on XML files, compiled reports for team manager and QAs.  • Troubleshooted customer issues with dictionary functionality on Kindle family of devices, usually involving reproducing the issue and then forwarding the trouble ticket to the appropriate team.  • Work along with language expert QAs when working with bilingual dictionaries (Arabic, Hindi, Chinese)  • Preformed 2nd tier customer support and troubleshooting on issues involving the dictionary feature in Kindle apps and devices. Python Programmer Rational Interaction - Seattle, WA September 2017 to October 2017 • Created python scripts for extracting Facebook and Twitter ad metrics and importing them into an SQL Server database.  • Worked with Facebook and Twitter marketing/ads APIs  • Completed tasks assigned to me by the project lead (via JIRA tickets).  • Wrote code and pushed completed code to the team's GIT repository.  • Wrote unit tests for code.  • Participated in daily SCRUM stand ups (either in person or remotely) Engineer Riverlogic, Inc June 2016 to July 2017 Worked as part of the engineering team to create features for their SaaS platform, EO+.  ? Specialized in creating dynamic, robust UI using current generation web technologies (Typescript, Knockout, LESS).  ? Created sophisticated front end code using Ajax to connect to product RESTful API.  ? Created Javascript unit tests using Jasmine.js framework.  ? Created business logic as part of a SOA framework, including web services using C#, including writing code to connect to Microsoft Azure.  ? Build complex SQL queries and stored procedures for Microsoft SQL Server.  ? Participated in collaborative team workflows like SCRUM meetings, peer programming and code reviews.  ? Worked with users and key stakeholders on requirements gathering and bug resolution. Web Developer, Amazon Game Studios (ContractCreative Circle Amazon.com August 2015 to January 2016 Developed front end templates and code for upcoming game developer support forums site.  ? Implemented specifications based on team designer's wireframes and user stories.  ? Created templates based on HTML, CSS, LESS, Bootstrap Framework and Freemarker Java template engine.  ? Site UI developed included landing pages, discussion threads, discussion posts, user profile pages, global header and global footer.  ? Developed code in Javascript/JQuery to manage site responsiveness, form validation, form submission and access to site date via a RESTful API. Web Developer, Egencia Brand Expedia, Inc August 2014 to May 2015 ContractAIM Consulting  ? "Modernizing" Front End UI of Business Travel brand using HTML5 and CSS3.  ? Served as primary developer for implementing new site design and site navigation.  ? Overhauled site forms, search result pages and itinerary pages.  ? Created front end code that needed to be visually consistent with older browsers (IE 6/7).  ? Troubleshoot legacy (C-Based) content management system and retrofitting it to work with modern Web Browsers.  ? Created scripts in perl and python to automate search/replace process in codebase. Web Developer, Creative and Production Services Expedia, Inc November 2013 to June 2014 ContractAIM Consulting  ? Developed Front end solutions for various points of sales throughout the Expedia website.  ? Produced working, high profile landing pages and promotion sites that are connected to Expedia's Global Deals Engine while under tight development deadlines (avg 5-10 hours dev time).  ? Served as technical lead in various campaigns, providing both guidance and implementation planning.  ? Developed design responsive front-end systems using HTML5, CSS3, node.js, backbone.js, jquery and various web frameworks. Software Engineer, Operations Epicenter Networks January 2013 to August 2013 Responsibilities included software development and infrastructure (operations) support.  ? Contributed to varied dev and ops initiatives within the company.  ? Developed new features and solutions for companies internal web based management system, written in object based php / mysql with JQuery / Ajax driven frontend.  ? Created tool for analysis and real time graphing of large amounts of log data (1,000,000+ records daily) using object based php and javascript based data representation library.  ? Integrated external SEM data query and reporting via RESTful api.  ? Created database driven UI elements / forms for company's internal management system. Web Developer, Marketing Systems ContractRylem April 2012 to January 2013 Responsible for implementing consumer loyalty system for an upcoming version of the Zumiez.com.  ? Worked with vendor and internal development staff to implement features and investigate issues.  ? Developed new features to related mobile web app used to sign up new members of loyalty program.  ? Wrote software tools to facilitate data analysis, data warehousing of member data.  ? Responsible for managing and visual upkeep of Vendor developed loyalty program portal.  ? Worked on various Front end features for upcoming version of Zumiez.com using Magento 1.10. Web Developer, User Interface Quorum Review, Inc August 2011 to April 2012 ContractAIM Consulting  ? Implemented UI layer based on business needs and wireframes provided by consulting design firm  ? Developed both frontend and back-end JavaScript code, along with CSS 2, vendor templating systems  ? Worked in highly strict Agile environment  ? Communicated with other development teams, QA, business stakeholders and vendors Data Analyst / Programmer (Contract) July 2011 to February 2012 Facilitated in migrated association membership data from legacy (Access) database to enterprise based CRM (Avectra NetFORUM)  ? Created automation software in Python and Mysql to streamline the migration process  ? Provided technical guidance to client (ASALH) and vendor (Avectra) via remote conference meetings on various data migration issues Software Developer (ContractAIM Consulting Medio, Inc March 2011 to April 2011 Identified and Resolved Functional and Layout issues for T-Mobile Web2Go mobile web portal  ? Developed Web Front end for variety of Mobile phone web browsers (Internet Explorer Mobile, NetFront, Webkit)  ? Debugged CSS and JavaScript issues related to running on various phone models  ? Participated in Daily Scrum / Agile team development processes Founder Gorilla Gizmos April 2010 to April 2011 Founder and lead of a team of developers currently working on software products for the Android Platform  ? Design the system architecture for two currently active software projects  ? Lead Developer for developing software in Java, PHP, SOAP and other technologies need for projects' designs Software Developer (ContractParker Services OCLC, Inc May 2010 to October 2010 Participated in the development of a multi-tier, plug-in based Data exchange system in Java  ? Designed, developed, and implemented autonomous software agents for interaction with terminal (Telnet and SSH connected) based Integrated Library Systems using TCL, Java and Groovy  ? Created SOAP based data communication libraries in Java, Groovy, Ruby, PERL and Python Web Application Developer (ContractGraythorn Zaaz, Inc January 2010 to April 2010 Created Expressionengine Templates and Plugins in PHP  ? Researched and Implemented Modules based on Zaaz's client's need  ? Developed automated MySQL database backup system  ? Participated in creating specification documents for project  ? Advised Zaaz developers and project managers on various open source development issues Web Developer (ContractRylem The Seattle Times Company December 2009 to January 2010 Created HTML and CSS based User interface based on UI Wireframes  ? Advised on CSS and UI Best practices Application Developer (Contract) All Star Directories, Inc August 2009 to September 2009 Migrated Files from Web to content management system based on OCMS  ? Edited and created HTML, CSS and JavaScript code to insure code migrated into CMS system was compliant to XHTML standards, along with style standards of the company  ? Created JavaScript code with Prototype and jQuery  ? Created HTML layout using The Yahoo! User Interface Library (YUI)  ? Troubleshooting existing code for layout deficits and software errors Application Developer Grist Magazine November 2006 to April 2009 Created Dynamic pages and web applications using PHP 5, PERL, JavaScript  ? Created Static pages using HTML 4.01 Transitional and XHTML 1.0  ? Created Style sheets using CSS 2  ? Used Cloud technologies for web applications and cloud storage with Amazon Simple Storage System (S3) and Yahoo Pipes  ? Developed innovative interface for the site's search engine using Swish-e  ? Responsible for fixing website bugs and maintaining the site's operations in an 24/7 environment  ? Responsible for creating new templates and modules for posting content on website and sending formatted email newsletters  ? Created customized software tools for Editorial, Marketing, Advertising and Development departments  ? Lead organization in creating innovative solutions to distribute Grist content to multiple audiences on multiple platforms. (Web, email, social networks)  ? Participated in creating Grist content for website, posting articles regarding energy and technology issues Application Developer Seattle University August 2005 to June 2006 Created Dynamic pages for School Intranet using PHP, MySQL, Java, and XSL  ? Developed programs and systems tools for school staff and faculty  ? Hand-coded static web pages using HTML 4.01 Transitional and CSS  ? Developed and maintain core systems software for schools content management infrastructure, main website, and information kiosk systems  ? Served as advisor and change agent for new information systems and strategies for the department head and administrative Dean  ? Provided systems support for both internal (students, faculty and staff) and external (other law schools) clients related to custom information systems and website belonging to the university Software Developer Seattle Weekly February 2005 to August 2005 Seattle Weekly 2/2005 8/2005  Software Developer - Swlists.com  ? Created entire site using dynamic web technologies using PHP and MySQL  ? Created style sheets for site using CSS  ? Developed system functionality and design based on rigorous analysis of competing websites and related usability data  ? Software code has been utilized by the Seattle Weekly, Minneapolis City Pages, and other Village Voice Media owned newspapers  ? Served as core developer for Swlists.com website, developing systems code for all three tiers of the project (database, middleware code, and interface code) Education Library and Information Science University of Washington 2002 to 2004 BS in Information Management and Technology in Information Management and Technology Syracuse University 1998 to 2002 Skills CSS (5 years), front end (3 years), HTML (3 years), Javascript (5 years), php (5 years), XML (4 years), Wordpress, C# Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Programming, Scripting, and Modeling Languages: PHP (Codeigniter, PEAR, SimpleTest), PERL, XML, HTML (4.01 Transitional, HTML5, XHTML), CSS, JavaScript (JQuery/node.js), Typescript, SQL (MySQL, PostgreSQL), Java (Servlets, JSP, Freemarker), XSLT (XPath/XPointer), ASP, Cold Fusion, SAS, C/C++, C#, TCL, Ruby, Python, Groovy.    Written software to run on the following platforms: Linux (Redhat, Mandrake, Ubuntu), Unix (Solaris), Windows XP/7/10, Mac OS X, various cloud based platforms (Koding, Cloud9, ShiftEdit)    Specialties:  ? Ability to quickly pick up and adapt to a diverse range of software languages, tools, and development environments.  ? Advanced writing and communication skills.  ? Ability to do formal research.  ? Ability to supply creative solutions to complex problems.  ? Well versed in Photoshop and other media editing tools.    E-Commerce systems  ? Familiar with developing solutions using the Magento E-commerce platform (v 1.3 & v 1.10).    Content Management Systems:  ? Familiar with developing within a wide range of CMS solutions including ExpressionEngine, AnswerHub, Zope, Wordpress and Bricolage.  ? Created custom plugins and extensions for ExpressionEngine, Wordpress.  ? Experienced in creating a CMS system from scratch and CMS Evaluations.    Android Software / Mobile Web Development:  ? Experience in Developing programs and software for the Android mobile platform.  ? Created Java classes using Android SDK for media playing, SOAP communication and database connectivity.  ? Experience in creating interactive and adaptive front-end interfaces for webkit based mobile web browsers.  ? Experience in specialized remote debugging of mobile websites.    Social Networks / Cloud Development:  ? Experience in working with the Microsoft Azure API.  ? Experience in developing SOAP clients in PHP (NuSOAP).  ? Experience in social networks API's (Twitter, Facebook).  ? Experience in use of API for Amazon's S3 online storage system.    Systems Analysis:  ? Familiarity in "waterfall" methodology of systems design.  ? Experience with CASE tools (ERD, DFD).  ? Familiarity in qualitative data analysis and coding.    Information Retrieval System Design  ? Familiarity of standard IR algorithms (Boolean, vector, statistical).  ? Experience in use of IR development tools (document crawlers, indexers, relevance calculations).    Library Science / Classification  ? Experience in structured document processing (XML, XML Schema, XSL, XPointer/XPath).  ? Familiarity with Dublin Core and US-MARC meta-data standards.  ? Familiarity with current "Semantic Web" technologies (DOI, RDF, URI syntax).  ? Experience in use of meta-data and ontology software (Protege, XML-SPY).