Developer <span class="hl">Developer</span> Developer - CPACKET Santa Clara, CA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Developer CPACKET August 2017 to Present Dates: Aug2017 - till date  Cpacket networks does monitor and optimizing networks (100g network). Also, it provides real- time alerts and interactive search to identify and eliminate imminent issues before they occur  Role: Developer  Responsibilities:  • Worked along with Architects and Analysts to understand the requirements for an end to end module.  • Developed test cases to test API's and used postman  • Used C-Stor and Mongo DB as the storage product in the back end.  • Added licensing feature for 3 products CVU'S, CCLEAR, CSTOR from scratch by going through most modules of code runs at backend and created html pages to view the EULA  (End User License Agreement).  • Developed micro services API'S for an individual module and exposed the results in JSON  format using Bottle framework.  • Involved in development of testing frameworks, used selenium web driver for Automation  • Worked with Docker Container, have setup an environment and used accordingly.  • Wrote Python code embedded with JSON and XML to produce HTTP GET and POST  requests for parsing HTML data from website.  • Worked with TeamCity for Continuous Integration for build management and SupervisorD to manage and monitor micro services.  • Worked on GIT as the version control for the project.  • Used bit-bucket for code reviews  • Used JIRA for issue tracking and bug tracking for each individual sprint.  • Used confluence to create design documents  • Good amount of experience in handling errors/exceptions and debugging issues in large  scale applications Python Developer Reck Solutions August 2013 to December 2014 Responsibilities:  • Used Python, to place data into JSON files for testing Customer login details from  Websites.  • Updated and manipulated content and files by using Python scripts.  • Experience with bottle Framework in developing the application.  • Used Nginx configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Dealing with scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Generated Python Html Forms to Record data of online users.  • Experience in Python and bottle for data exchange and business logic implementation.  • Wrote and executed various Mongo database queries from Python using Python Mongo- client and SQL dB  • Skilled in using collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user  defined objects.  • Worked on development of Mongo and stored procedures on mongo Server  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile)  Environment: Python 2.7, HTML5, CSS, XML, Nginx server, Mongo dB, Linux, JIRA. Production Engineer B.H.E.L April 2012 to July 2012 Responsibilities:  • To ensure quality and reliability by developing best practices to improve production  • Identify unsafe practices and report to the production manager immediately  • Provide guidance to team members to accomplish production goals  • plan and coordinate weekly status meeting to discuss on what went well and what doesn't and what can be done to improve the production process  • Investigate problems before they occur and analyze them with team, see what can be  done to avoid it Education Master of Science in Computer Information Systems California University of management and science April 2016 to June 2017 Customer Relationship Management University Enrollment System using prediction algorithm September 2016