Python Software Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> Software <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Software Developer Napa, CA I love to learn and I’m passionate about coding! 1.5 years of experience with Python, 5 years experience with bookkeeping. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Software Developer Arrgh Manufacturing - Novato, CA November 2018 to Present ·      Developing Python embedded software for the ESP8266 chip  ·      Hosting web pages and network portals on embedded systems  ·      Networking microcontrollers for Station and Access point connections (IOT)  ·      Implementing socket communication between mobile browser and hardware, parsing received data and packaging sent data  ·      Sending event-triggered client notifications via MQTT  ·      Configuring sensors, LED’s, 433mhz transmitters: Analog, Digital, PWM Bookkeeper / Financial Manager Thermal Shipping Solutions - Novato, CA 2018 to Present • Reconciliation: multiple dependent statements including Bank, Payroll, Merchant Credit Card Processing, and Credit Card Account Statements.  • Accounts Payable: Daily entry of vendor bills, matching bills with open Purchase Orders, filing and matching with check stubs, daily vendor communication and resolving vendor issues with logistics. Familiarity with special relationships and conditions for each vendor. Company credit score of 86 (very high), saved thousands of dollars through early payment vendor discounts.  • Accounts Receivable: Converting open Sales Orders into invoices and sending to customers. Customer collections and negotiations for customer payment terms, customer credit score evaluation and credit reporting. Tactful, diplomatic communication with customers and vendors.  • Payroll: General Journal Entry, classification of payroll expenses, Paychex statements  • Customer Service: interacted closely with Logistics and Sales teams to ensure customer satisfaction and prompt payment of bills.  • Generating Reports: Helped managers and owners make business decisions based on accurate information presented in customized reports through Quickbooks. Bookkeeper / General Operations 2013 to 2018 Software Sales Various Companies 2017 to 2017 DrivenOne, Inc., 2013-2017 (Web Development); Snug Harbor Resorts, LLC, 2013-2018 (Travel & Recreation); Black Panther Films & 10West Music, 2013 (Entertainment)    ? Other Bookkeeping / Accounting Experience:    • Filing corporate income tax  • Project management: Estimating time and costs, managing software developers. Scheduling and managing client upgrades, implementations, and other labor-intensive projects.  • Creating billable time reports  • Providing ERP Software support, billed to clients at $175/hr  • Maintaining database of client software versions  • Referencing customer records for billing and payment verification  • MS Excel: created Excel data format translator template which resulted in a 90% reduction of time spent on an over-budget project  • Creating automatic contract renewals system  • Managing and billing client subscription renewals  • For one client, I turned a bag of receipts into a complete financial record for a yearlong film project in 8 hours.    ? Business Operations Experience:    • Reading contracts and meeting with lawyer regarding company business  • Private meetings and conferences with representatives from Fortune 500 companies: Oracle and Microsoft  • Email marketing campaigns and newsletters  • Data Migration and Cleanup  • Profitability analysis for new products  • Implementing automatic reminder emails for invoices, deadlines, and client renewals.  • Creating marketing project plan templates  • Coordinating software contractor services  • Coordinating client software upgrades and updates, scheduling sub-contractors  • Writing and successfully publishing news articles in local newspaper (The Napa Register) and Ziff Davis online magazine (readership of 117 million/month)  • Obtaining business licenses  • Website design and administration, transferring domains & DNS settings, designing company logos  • Company-wide phone system setup with Vonage  • Producing promotional videos, creating company YouTube channel  • Scheduling meetings, via phone and GoToMeeting  • Successful Google Adwords campaign: custom campaign based on past successful results and continually tailored to incorporate new feedback.  • Evaluating and advising on corporate health insurance  • Scheduling meetings and training sessions with GoToMeeting and GoToAssist  • Product training and certification  • Negotiating salary and incentives President Drivenone, Inc - Napa, CA 2013 to 2017 Maintaining websites and databases, customer interaction, setting up shopping carts, billing, mailings, and marketing. Realtor Coldwell Banker Brokers of the Valley - Napa, CA 2015 to 2015 Interviewed prospective clients, marketed houses, performed open-house events, managed contracts, interacted with clients and realtors, viewed new inventory on "caravan" tours, attended weekly educational meetings. Sold one home for $450,000 prior to leaving to attend law school. Property Management Assistant & Social Media Manager Drivenone, Inc - Redlands, CA 2014 to 2015 Created a brand-related social media contest which gained thousands of views in one week.  ? Marketing property(creating online flyers and listings) for sale and lease.  ? Scheduling maintenance and graffiti removal, window replacement, cleaning, legal reading. Performing Singer/Songwriter, Recording Artist, Web Developer Tyler Suard - Los Angeles, CA 2009 to 2013 California  ? Songwriting, performance, video editing, audio recording (see Youtube: Tyler Suard)  ? Original music video received rotation in 8,500 retail outlets around the U.S. Human Resources Recruiter, Guest Relations Host Six Flags Magic Mountain - Valencia, CA 2008 to 2009 Interviewed prospective employees, performed high-volume customer service, marketed available job positions, worked with a cash till and filed daily financial reports. Executive Assistant Silbar Songs Music Publishing - Studio City, CA 2007 to 2008 Recorded, mixed, and produced professional-quality audio for a Grammy-winning songwriter. Business Manager Westmont College Student Association - Santa Barbara, CA 2006 to 2007 Designed and implemented a $100,000 budget for student body.  ? Elected, paid position Education B.A. in Economics and Business Westmont College 2003 to 2007 Skills ENTERPRISE RESOURCE PLANNING (1 year), ERP (1 year), EXCEL (7 years), Python (2 years), Linux (1 year), Arduino (Less than 1 year), Micropython (1 year), Netsuite (1 year), Quickbooks (5 years), ESP8266 (Less than 1 year), MySQL, Docker (Less than 1 year), Git Awards Top 1% of US SAT Scores 2003-05 Full-ride scholarship: School of Law 2015-09 Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Microsoft Introduction to Artificial Intelligence (AI) February 2019 to Present Passed course: "Microsoft Introduction to Artificial Intelligence (AI)", part of the Microsoft Professional Certification in Artificial Intelligence. Real Estate License August 2019 to August 2023 California Licensed Real Estate Salesperson. This means I can also sell businesses as well. Patents Rotary Resonant Cavity Propulsion System (#Application Number 62/917,831) 2019-01 Provisional Patent for a Spaceship Thruster Additional Information SOFTWARE SKILLS    Python  Micropython  Machine Learning  Facial Detection  Emotion Detection  Linux  Arduino  Bluetooth  Bluetooth Low Energy (BLE)    * Oracle Netsuite ERP * Microsoft Dynamics GP * AutoDesk Software  * Quickbooks and Quickbooks Online * Trello Project Management * Pro Tools and Logic  * Web Design, Graphic Design  * Social Media: Facebook, Etc.  * Troubleshooting: Mac and PC  * Microsoft Excel    * Video Production/Editing  * University Budgeting System  * HR Information Systems  * Microsoft ExpressionWeb    * Social Media: Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, Reddit  * Google Adwords, Youtube, and other online advertising