Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Risk Climate Kalamazoo, MI • Four years of experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Testing, Bug fixes, Enhancement, Support and Implementation of web, stand-alone, client-server enterprise applications using Python in various domains.  • Experienced with Object Oriented Programming, Software Development Life Cycle, Database designs, Agile methodologies, coding and testing of enterprise applications.  • Good Understanding of object-oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python.  • Experience in Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python and Windows Architecture.  • Experienced in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, functions on SQL, MySQL databases.  • Experience in using different Python libraries like Pandas, Numpy, pymssql, matplotlib etc.  • Good experience in working with various Python Integrated Development Environments like PyCharm, PyScripter, Spyder, PyStudio, PyDev and automation testing tools like PyUnit and Selenium.  • Experienced in Python's modules numpy, matplotlib, etc. for generating complex graphical data, creation of histograms etc.  • Experience in developing web-based applications using Python 2.7/2.6, Django 1.4/1.3, HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, and JSON.  • Familiar and Worked on various Operating Systems like Mac, Windows, UNIX, and Linux.  • Knowledge of Servers, Apache Tomcat.  • Exceptionally solid background in composing API's along with Web Services over Python.  • Good in Unit testing/ Test-driven Development (TDD), Load Testing and Integration Testing.  • Experienced in using SVNand GIT.  • Expertise in practicing the SDLC models, Agile methods with Scrum.  • Involved in database-driven web application development using a variety of frameworks such as Django on Python.  • Experience in using UNIX shell Scripts for automating batch programs.  • Good at using JSON based REST Web services.  • Performed code reviews and implemented best Pythonic programming practices  • Excellent Interpersonal and communication skills, efficient time management and organization skills, ability to handle multiple tasks and work well in a team environment.  • Ability to work on own initiative and as a part of team. Willingness to learn new technologies, openness to new ideas and ability to learn very quickly. Work Experience Python Developer Risk Climate - Kalamazoo, MI January 2019 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in MVP software development (using Python 3.7) related to Enterprise Risk Management (ERM), strategic visualization and virtual analytics, powdered by Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning  • Designing, developing and testing the ERM software using AGILE methodology  • Current professional development includes Bayesian probability theory and neural networks  • Exposure to related languages includes NumPy, Pandas, BayesianPy, Tkinter.  • Developing Python Script for moving files from Dropbox to Amazon server.  • Writing Python Scripts for loading data from CSV files into the database tables.  • Currently working with version control systems such as Git and SVN for maintaining a consistent state throughout the application development process.  • Involved in database-driven web application development using a variety of frameworks such as Django on Python.  • Developing UI for handling different phases of exceptions for the data in SQL Server database and fix them.  • Following the best practice of Python such as PEP-8.  • Developing Python scripts to execute Stored Procedures and load data from various forms of csv files into staging tables in SQL Server database.  • Involved in back end development using Python with framework Flask  • Developing internal project in Flask to generate report from google analytics on daily, monthly and weekly basis.  Environment: Python 3.7, Django 2.0, Agile, Flask, HTTP, JSON, HTML, CSS, Pandas, GITHUB, Microsoft SQL Server, Jupyter. Python Developer US Bank - Minneapolis, MN June 2018 to January 2019 Responsibilities:  • Designed front end and backend of the application using Python on Django Web Framework  • Used HTML, CSS, JSON designed and developed the user interface of the website.  • Developed views and templates to create a user-friendly Website interface.  • Utilized Python libraries with Python, numpy, pandas and matplotlib.  • Used Git to keep track of multiple issues and easily switch from one task to other.  • AGILE (SCRUM) practices and planning of sprint attending daily agile (SCRUM) meetings and SPRINT retrospective meetings to produce quality deliverables within time.  • Developed Job dashboard monitor UI using Django/Flask.  • Automated JIRA processes using Python scripts.  • Involved in maintaining python scripts using automated testing.  • Experience working with version control systems such as Git and Apache SVN for maintaining a consistent state throughout the application development process.  • Involved in database-driven web application development using a variety of frameworks such as Django on Python.  Environment: Python 2.6, Python, Django, REST, HTTP, Bootstrap, JSON, HTML, CSS, Pandas, Bugzilla, SVN, Amazon Web Services (AWS)(basic). Python Developer Admission Transit System - Kalamazoo, MI July 2017 to June 2018 Responsibilities:  • Designed, and developed minimal viable product (MVP), using Python 3.7  • Designed, and created MySQL, SQLite 3 database(s) for MVP to store, retrieve, and modify the data  • Created calendar, which allows users to create, modify, and delete event(s), where the events are  stored in MySQL database  • Building a cross platform software using Python that merges workflow visualization and virtual  analytics  • Developing REST API, which pulls out and pushes data from/into Salesforce CRM  • Contributed throughout all (completed) phases of software development to produce high quality, user  friendly, bug free software  • Involved in the design, development, and testing phases of application using AGILE methodology.  • Used Test driven approach for developing the application and Implemented the unit tests using Python Unit test framework.  • Involved in the design and maintenance of the databases using Python and Python based API using Flask.  • Return test cases using PyUnit and Selenium automation testing for better manipulation of test scripts.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using JSON.  • Placed data into JSON files using Python to test websites.  • Involved in presenting demos to the clients and also reporting the daily and weekly status to the Project manager.  Environment: Python 3.5, REST Web services, CSS, JSON, HTML, CSS, SQL, Agile, SVN, MySQL, GitHub, Linux. Python Developer Magma Fincorp Limited - Hyderabad, Telangana January 2012 to June 2014 Responsibilities:  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python.  • Used Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Designed and developed database management system using MS SQL.  • Rewrite existing Java, C++ application in Python.  • Designed the architecture of the hardware environments and methodology of the code.  • Experience in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM Process.  • Involved in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing  • and Implementation and support.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using python.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  • Wrote SQL, MS SQL queries for implementing functions, triggers, and tables.  • Used GIT version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Involved in maintain, testing and editing python scripts using automated testing  • Handling the day to day issues and fine tuning the applications for enhanced performance.  • Worked in development of applications especially in Unix environment.  Environment: Python 2.7, REST Web services, C++, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, GitHub, Flash, SQLite 3, MYSQL, MS SQL, Oracle and Windows, Linux. Education Bachelors of Technology in Information Technology JNTU University Master's in Computer Science in Computer Science Western Michigan University