Prototype Designer Prototype Designer Prototype Designer - L&T Technology services Ltd • Self - Learning  • Optimist  • Amicable  • Willing to Work  • Aspirant  • Astute  • Ready to switch to new technologies. Work Experience Prototype Designer L&T Technology services Ltd July 2018 to Present Title personal protective equipment monitoring system  Tools / Technology Microsoft TMT tool  Team Size 6  Short Project Objectives/Description  PPE (Personal Protective Equipment) are protective gears provided to employees working in Hazardous Environment like construction, mining, drilling, Loading, unloading, etc. It is mandatory to monitor the employees and conform that the safety standards are met in organization to avoid any fatal accidents. The data can be maintained not to modify, should  not be accessed by any unauthorized person at restricted areas that can be achieved by cyber security.  Role and Responsibilities  • Playing Key role in prototype design in TMT tool.  • Working enthusiastically to build the full report on test cases.  • Working on STRIDE methodology to mitigate the threats.  • Expert in template creation for the preferred properties of stencils/modules in design.  • Working to mitigate Authorization attacks.  • Good in understanding the document of completed POC in short time.  • Good in creation/modification of stencils in prototype based on CR (Change Request).  • POC developed on infotainment system of vehicle in Microsoft TMT and mitigated some test cases.  Achievements:  • Researched from the scratch about cyber security on different fields and got enough knowledge on it to apply on any case where security is required.    Project #2 - ARAS II Engineer L&T Technology services Ltd January 2017 to Present India Python Developer L&T Technology services Ltd January 2018 to June 2018 Title ARAS (Advanced Rider Assistance System).  Tools / Technology Image processing and ML Algorithms  Team Size 3  Short Project Objectives/Description  ARAS project is the automatic sign detection and recognition has been converted to a real challenge for high  performance of computer vision and machine learning techniques to recognize the different signboards on roads using  number of positive and negative images and train them using Haar-cascade classifier algorithm and assist the rider/driver through an audio signal.  Role and Responsibilities  • Coded on python script.  • Collecting the dataset on specified image format.  • Generating the vector samples and understood the Perl scripting while creating vector files.  • Training the Haar-cascade classifier for Traffic sign.  • Reconfigure the images based on learning results like thresholding, masking, filtering, gaussian blur etc.,  • Worked on KNN algorithm, Hop field network algorithm.  • Re-training the classifier with the detected false positives.  • Documentation of the project.    Achievements:  • Started working on Machine learning algorithms and image processing concepts and learned from scratch.    Project #3 - ARAS I Python developer L&T Technology services Ltd July 2017 to December 2017 Title ARAS (Advanced Rider Assistance System).    2  Curriculum vitae  Tools / Technology Image processing using OpenCV library.  Team Size 2  Short Project Objectives/Description  ARAS project is the automatic sign detection has been converted to a real challenge for high performance of computer  vision techniques to detect the different Signboards on roads, Lane change, Humps & Bumps, Pedestrian crossings etc., and assist the rider/driver through an audio signal.  Role and Responsibilities  • Coded on python script.  • Collecting the dataset on specified image format and maintained own database.  • Worked on OpenCV library to detect the sign boards, lane change detection, hump detection and pedestrian crossing detection.  • Worked on traditional methods of image processing like template matching, pattern recognition.  • Worked on XFeatures2D library (SIFT, SURF, FAST), Canny edge detection.  • Good in reconfiguring the images based on false positives on results like thresholding, masking, filtering,  gaussian blur etc.,  • Good knowledge on image features.  • Documentation of the project.    Achievements:  • Started working on image processing concepts using OpenCV and learned from scratch.    Project #4 Embedded developer L&T Technology services Ltd April 2017 to June 2017 Tools / Technology Code Composer Studio  Team Size 2  Short Project Objectives/Description  This project is to provide some external features like helmet worn status, accident detection, alcohol consumption  detection, and sending GPS location data through GSM module, etc.  Role and Responsibilities  • Designed Architecture for Smart helmet.  • Coded in Embedded C  • Worked on TI micro controllers like MSP430 and Tiva C series micro controllers.  • Specifically worked on accident detection using ADXL345 tap detection Accelerometer.  • Worked on GPS module for NMEA format.  • Documentation of the project.  • Knowledge on UART, SPI, ZigBee, I2c communication protocols.    Achievements:  • Implemented some features on TI micro controllers and learned from scratch. Additional Information Technical Skills    Hardware / Platforms UNIX, DOS and WINDOWS 7, 8,10, XP, Raspberry Pi, RTOS.    Technology Machine Learning, Image processing using OpenCV library, Cyber security.    Programming C, C++, Embedded C, Socket programming, Linux System Programming.  Languages    Databases MLDB    Tools Microsoft TMT (Threat Modelling Tool), Code Composer studio, Keil    Scripting Languages Python Script, Shell script