Software Developer Software <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer Jersey City, NJ ? 3 years of experience in Analyze, Coding, Debugging and Testing of Business/Commercial applications using Microsoft .Net technologies.  ? Experience in writing Stored Procedures using MS SQL Server.  ? Excellent object oriented programming skills and experience using C#, VB.NET.  ? Creating data regression models, using predictive data modeling to deliver insights and implement action-oriented solutions to complex business problems.  ? Worked in C, C++, Python, Cocoa, and object-oriented programming language  ? Experience with SOAP/web services - REST, JSON, XML, SOAP  ? Worked on ASP.NET Controls (Data controls, Validation controls, Common controls).  ? Experienced Data Analyst with excellent Statistical Analysis, Data Mining and Machine Learning skills.  ? Experienced with Recommender System Design by implementing Collaborative Filtering, Matrix Factorization, Clustering Methods, and Market Basket Analysis.  ? Experience in using Jupyter notebook 5.7.6 in Anaconda 5.3.0 an open source distribution for Python.  ? Experience in using Databricks Community version for Spark.  ? Working experience in RDBMS like MySQL, MS SQL Server and NoSQL database like MongoDB.  ? Working knowledge of NLP based deep learning models in Python 3.6.  ? Experience in data visualizations using Python, D3.js and Tableau 9.2/9.3/9.4  ? Ability to learn & develop using new technologies quickly.  ? Excellent communication and interpersonal skills. Work Experience Software Developer LuxCom Inc - New York, NY April 2018 to December 2018 Description:  Luxcom is a company most known for its high-quality diamonds certified by the most respected independent diamond grading labs. The objective of the project was used to build an efficient software that would be finely tuned according to customer needs and provide highly customized product as well as service for them.  Responsibility:  ? Used HTML, JavaScript and AJAX for developing Controls and web forms.  ? Extensively used Grid Views with sorting and paging.  ? Developed the web based application using ASP.NET MVC C# and SQL Server.  ? Served as the initial contact person for all SQL support queries.  ? Performed updates to the SQL system as assigned by management.  ? Collaborated with business support professionals to provide full system maintenance.  ? Improved the experience of software users by soliciting feedback and making software improvements.  ? Fix any issues related to database performance and provide corrective measures. Software Developer Intern Accrete InfoTech - Gujarat, IN June 2016 to December 2016 Description:  Software have both fictions of admin as well as reader. Reader can borrow a book, return a book, also compute fine if book was not return on time. Admin can see the fine per reader. Admin can add a new book to the library, also manage all branch.  Responsibility:  ? Developed new and existing software  ? Partnered with designers to help define and implement User Interface  ? Designing back-end database structures and also generating stored procedures.  ? Develop database schemas, tables and dictionaries.  ? Worked with team members on server-side integration  ? Managed to develop software on own Python Developer IT Codes - Gujarat, IN July 2015 to May 2016 Description:  OZO Taxi is an aggregation based online Car Rental Booking Platform providing its services across 60+ Cities. The project includes verified Taxi Operators from different cities to ensure customers get an easily accessible, safe and reliable Taxi ride. Also created login form and connect it with Database. Used JSON parsing for google map API and create map view in application.  Responsibility:  ? Writing reusable, testable, and efficient code  ? Understanding of databases and SQL  ? Coordinate with internal teams to understand user requirements and provide technical solutions  ? Implementation of security and data protection  ? Knowledge of JSON and PostgreSQL support for JSON.  ? Understanding of fundamental design principles behind a scalable application  ? Able to create database schemas that represent and support business processes  ? Proficient understanding of code versioning tools such as Git, SVN. Education Master of Science in Computer Science New York Institute of Technology December 2018 Bachelor in Computer Science Gujarat technological University May 2016 Skills Database, Microsoft sql server, Sql server, Mysql, Sql, .net, Visual studio, C#, C/c++, C++, Git, Hive, Html, Objective c, Python, Matplotlib, Numpy, Pandas, Asp, Css Assessments Spreadsheets with Microsoft Excel — Familiar August 2019 Measures a candidate’s Microsoft Excel knowledge including common tools, PivotTables, conditional & nested formulas, and custom visuals. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/q2jsi1jdpapy9thd Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Technical Skills  Frameworks and Tools: ASP.NET, Eclipse, Visual Studio Code, Xcode, Weka, Sublime Text, Anaconda, Spyder, Hive, Jupyter Notebook, Tableau, Power BI, Git  Programming Language: Python(Pandas, Numpy, Scipy, Matplotlib, Seaborn), Objective C, HTML, CSS, .Net,  C#, C/C++  Database System: MongoDB, MySQL, Microsoft SQL Server  Technologies: Machine learning, Deep learning, Statistical Analysis, A/B testing, ANOVA testing