Data Scientist Data Scientist Looking for job opportunities as a data science and analytics / software engineer in the fields of machine learning, deep learning or data. San Jose, CA Knowledgeable and have applied experience in Machine Learning and Data Science. Have previous experience working as a machine learning researcher and Data Scientist. Looking for job opportunities in AI and Data. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Data Scientist Cisco - San Jose, CA January 2019 to Present • Working on contract for Cisco CX Innovation group to improve the Customer Experience using the power of data.   • Designed, Implemented and fine-tuned Deep Bidirectional Transformer networks (BERT) and XLNet for the task of classifying sentiments of Customer Feedback's and Net Promoter Score data.  • Successfully improved the performance by 3 % on the sentiment classification task by using data augmentation.   • Experimented with different NLP techniques (Word Embeddings, LSTM seq2seq paraphrase models ) to increase the training dataset in order to improve the performance of the sentiment classification task on the test data.   • Helped in designing the guidelines for data labeling for internal Cisco Data.   • Set up evaluation environments for speech-to-text libraries (IBM, Google, Kaldi) for evaluating their performance on customer feedback recordings.  • Researching on Question Answering DNN frameworks (seq2seq, transformer attention-based models). Python Developer Trainee Integra Technologies LLC June 2018 to December 2018 • Worked as a volunteer to enhance and maintain a complex Python framework.  • Crafted web solutions to resolve technical problems to satisfy customer business needs.  • Assisted in architecture design and deployment tasks in back-end web development. Research Assistant Rochester Institute of Technology - Rochester, NY January 2017 to December 2017 • Assisted in designing and implementing data-driven models at the Computational Biomedicine Lab at RIT to solve health domain problems.  • Suggested and demonstrated state of the art deep learning ideas to solve the problem of classifying unstructured electrocardiogram signals.  • Designed and improved the performance of a hybrid deep learning architecture comprising of Convolutional Neural Networks and Long Short-Term Memory Model by 10%. The improved model showed better performance than previous traditional machine learning models.  • Worked on feature engineering and addressing issues related to highly unbalanced (non-uniformly distributed) datasets.  • Performed tuning of deep learning models on AWS EC2 cloud instances. Software Developer Intern HCL Infosystems Ltd May 2013 to July 2013 • Built an online management system on ASP.NET Framework for ArcEdu Campus.  • Assisted in integrating the web application with MySQL database.  • Worked in a team of 20 to design and manage web based forms. Education Masters in Computer Science Rochester Institute of Technology December 2017 Bachelors in Computer Science and Engineering Sir Padampat Singhania University May 2014 Skills Python (scipy, numpy, keras, pandas, scikit-learn, matplotlib) (3 years), Matlab (2 years), Java (2 years), Apache Spark (Less than 1 year), Keras (1 year), Tensorflow (1 year), R (1 year), AWS EC2 (Less than 1 year), Python, Hadoop (Less than 1 year), AWS, MYSQL, Git Links https://github.com/niharvanjaraRIT Certifications/Licenses Introduction to Big Data with Apache Spark July 2015 to Present Deep Learning Specialization July 2018 to Present https://www.coursera.org/account/accomplishments/specialization/certificate/BYQNY5NED2VG. Additional Information Projects    Sentiment Classification on Text   ( Python Jupyter Notebook)  Feb 2018 - March 2018  • Implemented a model which takes a sentence as an input and classifies a sentence as an emotion belonging to one of the 5 classes.  • Used pretrained GloVe 50-dimensional vector word embeddings to train an LSTM. The model classifies emotions with high accuracy (85%).    Image Detection and Classification of Mathematical Expressions (CROHME Dataset)   Python   Jan2017 – May 2017   • Developed a Machine Learning pipeline for labeling around 100,000 online handwritten mathematical expression images.  • Performed segmentation, classification and parsing of images in order to label every expression in the image accurately.     YAVIS assistant   IBM Watson Bluemix  Python   Jan 2017 – May 2017  • Created an NLP based AI assistant python application using IBM Watson and Google Calendar REST API’s.   • The application can add and retrieve calendar entries through natural language (text).  Demand prediction for bakery products ( Python)    Classification of Color Fundus Diabetic Retinopathy Images MATLAB  Aug 2016 – Dec 2016  • Designed image processing techniques and ML techniques (PCA) to extract features from retinal images.  • The processed features were then trained on an SVM model to accurately detect different stages of diabetic retinopathy.    Analysis of Intrusion Detection System Data   MATLAB, Python, JAVA  Aug 2016 – Dec 2016  • Developed data-driven models (SVM, Random Forest, Naïve Bayes and Neural Network) for creating Anomaly and Misuse based intrusion detection system based on KDD Cup Data.   • The predictive models can distinguish between bad (intrusions) and good connections.    Demand prediction of bakery goods   Python   Aug 2016 – Dec 2016  • Designed predictive models (linear regression) on sales data for maximizing sales and minimizing returns for bakery goods.   • Data integration was performed to join multiple tables.    Classification of Diabetes Data   Weka   January 2016 – May 2016  • Performed data cleaning and preparation on the UCI diabetes dataset having 100,000 instances and 55 attributes.   • Performed feature extraction and dimensionality reduction and tested various classification models.