Security Administrator, Python Developer Security Administrator, <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Security Administrator, Python Developer - In-house Madison, WI Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Security Administrator, Python Developer TDS Telecom - Madison, WI March 2017 to Present I am a Security Administrator/Analyst and Developer.    Developed ( Python):  - In-house security/active directory users reporting application (notifies of added/removed users from admin groups, emailing monthly and daily status  reports)  - Historical archiving/email reporting application of TDS URLs queried against PaloAlto Firewall URL Category API and Google Safesearch API, preventative  medicine in case one of our domains was listed as malicious/phishing.  - Application to check for and update our geo to ip databases.  - Application to backup all our production firewall configs daily.  - Application that keeps a historical database of "who had what IP at what  time" throughout our entire company's network. The program also had a web  interface, searchable by username, hostname, IP and date.    Non-Development Work:  - Oversaw the implementation of IT projects, making sure security is  implemented in all applicable areas.  - Wrote firewall rules for PaloAlto and Juniper Firewalls, responding to ticket  requests.  - Investigated and debugged enterprise-wide network traffic via Kibana/  Logstash.  - Periodically on-call 24/7 with team phone in case network issues arise  internally with the deployment of projects on other teams, emergencies, etc.  - Verified the validity and approved of certificates.  - Implemented firewall rules for legacy and current firewall systems.  - Verified and pushed ISP/Enterprise-wide firewall changes.  - Monitored ISP/Enterprise hardware for alerts and notifications.  - Verified daily backups.  - Kept regular up-keep and updating of weekly reports.    Trainings/Notable Achievements:  - Attended Multiple Palo Alto Firewall Training Sessions  - Attended SANS SEC401 Security Essentials Course  - Studied for, passed and am SANS GIAC GSEC Certified  - Attended SANS560 Network Penetration Testing and Ethical Hacking Course  - Attended multiple DEFCON conferences to understand the current threat  landscape Python and Front/Backend Web Developer TDS Telecom - Madison, WI May 2016 to March 2017 All of my work has been towards developing internal applications to utilize and create our 'datalake', an internal series of NoSQL databases that contains  large amounts of financial, customer, and other important data from all TDS  owned companies across the US.    - Did internal front/backend web development  - Developed Python-based REST API server for interaction with various  underlying MongoDB databases. Used to generate reports and metrics for our  internal SharePoint site.  - Developed a Python API for performing CRUD operations and metadata  extraction from internal Sharepoint site  - Did jQuery development  • Created internal Sharepoint webpages on our intranet  - Created Sharepoint Nintex Workflows  Technologies used: APIs, Bootstrap, AngularJS, Django, Node.js, Python,  MongoDB, Tornado, Eve, Pymongo, HTML/CSS,/Javascript, jQuery, Apache,  Linux systems Student Web Developer UW School of Medicine and Public Health 2015 to 2015 2015 (1 year)  Department of Radiology    Maintain and update https://www.radiology.wisc.edu/ via HTML/PHP files, as well as various system databases. Used code review software to maintain  consistent workflow and documentation via FogBugz and TortoiseHG.  Constant use of HTML and PHP. Developed in-house applications for use on department servers.  Did ad-hoc python development to develop applications to aid in my daily work.    Also used HTML, SQL, CSS, Python, PuTTY, FTP clients, Javascript, jQuery. Student Maintenance and Laborer Supervisor UW Housing - Lake shore Division June 2013 to September 2013 Education Computer Information Systems, Business Edgewood College 2012 to 2016 Skills jQuery, MySQL, HTML 5, Javascript, Git, PHP, CSS, HTML 5 Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/luke-endres-gsec-1706a49b/ Certifications/Licenses GIAC GSEC SANS GIAC GSEC Global Information Assurance Certification Additional Information Honors Roll at Edgewood College