SR. PYTHON FULL STACK DEVELOPER SR. <span class="hl">PYTHON</span> FULL STACK <span class="hl">DEVELOPER</span> SR. PYTHON FULL STACK DEVELOPER - ERICSSON Around 5+ years of experience as a Web/Application Developer and coding with analytical programming using Python, Django. To serve the organization with the best of my technical skills and abilities by utilizing my educational and professional knowledge and competencies acquired by me in my academic career and professional experience. Experienced in HTML/HTML5, DHTML, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, Angular JS, AJAX, XML and JSON. Good experience in developing web applications and implementing Model View Control (MVC) architecture using server-side applications Django, Flask and Pyramid. Developed web applications using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, XML and JSON. Implemented responsive web pages using HTML5/CSS3 and Bootstrap. Work Experience SR. PYTHON FULL STACK DEVELOPER ERICSSON - Nashville, TN January 2018 to Present • Develop and maintain scripts and utilize desktop management solutions to create a more efficient environment.  • Administrating user account setup and network access (Windows AD, Exchange, Google, Verizon, etc.)    • Performing customization and adaptation of existing programs to meet users' requirements, improve efficiency, and increase system usability.    • Assisting Chief Technology Officer and other Technical Support staff in designing improved processes and operational policies and implementing the designs.    • Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and used agile methodology for developing application. Upgraded existing UI with HTML, CSS, jQuery and Bootstrap.    • Designing and evaluating business using historical & current data from Google Analytics.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Experience in developing Web-Applications implementing Model Template View architecture using Python and Django web application framework.  • Excellent client interaction and presentation skills and proven experience in working independently as well in a team with good leadership qualities. Sr. Java Developer Knight-Enterprises Inc - Clearwater, FL November 2016 to December 2017 • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.    • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Utilized Python libraries wxPython, NumPy, Twisted and matplotlib.  • Managed datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL, queried MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL db package to retrieve information.  • Developed applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all of its commands.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Designed and developed SQL procedures and Linux shell scripts for data import/export and data conversions.  • Implemented various Validation Controls for form validation and implemented custom validation controls using Object Oriented JavaScript.  • Developed Restful microservices using Flask and Django and deployed on AWS servers using EBS and EC2.  • Build the Silent Circle Management System (SCMC) in Django, Python, and AngularJS while integrating with infrastructure services.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  • Created User Interface screens using HTML, AJAX, CSS, Java script.  • Developed project's web page as Single Page Application (SPA) by using AngularJS and JavaScript API and build delivery driver application. Python Developer TATA CONSULTANCY SERVICES June 2014 to October 2016 • Representation of the system in hierarchy form by defining the components, subcomponents using Python and developed set of library functions over the system based on the user needs.  • Performed Inheritance based Object Relational Mappings in tables to simplify the data using Hibernate ORM.    • Developed views and templates with Django view controller and template to create a user-friendly website interface.    • Created a Python/Django based web application using Python scripting for data processing, MySQL for the database, and HTML/CSS/JQuery and High Charts for data visualization of the served pages    • Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, jQuery and RESTAPI calls.    • Developed Action classes, Action Forms, and Struts Configuration file to handle required UI actions, JSPs for Views.  • Developed project's web page as Single Page Application (SPA) by using AngularJS and JavaScript API and build delivery driver application.  • Deployed an AWS cloud server for Python using up-to-date and consistent interface with Boto3.  • Created methods (get, post, put, delete) to make requests to the API server and tested Restful API using postman.  • Designed and Developed SQL database structure with Django Framework using agile methodology Designed and developed a responsive UI page using Bootstrap.  • Analysis, Design, Implementation, Testing and Maintenance Developed project using Django, Oracle SQL, Angular 2, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3 and Bootstrap.  • Wrote ANSIBLE Playbooks with Python, SSH as the Wrapper to Manage Configurations of AWS Nodes and Test Playbooks on AWS instances using Python. Run Ansible Scripts to provision Dev servers.  • Worked in MySQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization and denormalization.  • Extensive knowledge of building single page applications (SPA) using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Angular, Bootstrap, with Python development. Education Master's in computer science Boston University Skills Python, HTML 5, Django, PHP, Flask, Javascript, Panda, NumPy, Eclipse, AWS, Putty, C++, Java, Angular, Node, React, Angularjs