Software Engineer - Python Software Engineer - <span class="hl">Python</span> Software Engineer - Python - Snap On Chicago, IL • 3 years of experience as a Web Application Developer and Software Engineer using  Python, Flask, Django, C, C++, Java.  • Experience object oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python and Flask.  • Experienced in LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python/PHP) Architecture.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Flask, HTML, Java, XML, CSS, and Express.js.  • Experience in developing python scripts for automation and performing functional tests and data validation.  • Good experience of software development in Python and IDEs: PyCharm, Eclipse, sublime text, and Jupyter Notebook.  • Expertise with OOPS, Multi-Threading and Collections concepts and in Python.  • Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis and version control tools like GitHub.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Experience in developing the RESTful API'S service using Python Django framework.  • Strong knowledge in MongoDB concepts - CRUD operations and aggregation framework  • Good knowledge on Amazon Cloud EC2, Simple Storage Service S3 and Amazon SQS.  • Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache.  • Expertise in working with server side technologies including databases, Restful API and MVC design patterns.   • Excellent debugging, problem solving, optimization and testing skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Engineer - Python Snap On - Kenosha, WI January 2019 to Present Worked on development of application to manage Healthcare providers and their billing.  ? Worked with offshore teams and internal clients to Design and analyze the requirements of in-house applications.  ? Technical experience with LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, PYTHON) architecture.  ? Developed entire backend modules using Python on Flask Web Framework.  ? Designed and developed data management system using MySQL and Flask.  ? Developed Python scripts using multithreading module.  ? Defined collections to store data in MongoDB.  ? Responsible for setting up Python REST API framework using DJANGO.  ? Developed responsive UI using HTML5/CSS3, Express Js, Bootstrap  ? Responsible for writing test plans and executing tests via automation and manually.  ? Developed database layer including Tables and Stored procedures in MYSQL.  ? Managed large datasets using Pandas data frames and SQL.  ? Developed a Front-End GUI as stand-alone Python application.  ? Worked with Marketing and Sales teams to enhance applications to suit their needs.  ? Debug application deployments on multiple environments. Python Developer / Intern College Board - Reston, VA March 2018 to December 2018 Responsibilities:  ? Develop applications that use MongoDB database, and pymongo.  ? Wrote Python code embedded with JSON and XML to produce HTTP GET request, parsing HTML data from websites.  ? Wrote Python code to simplify lists in Python with list comprehension and Python OOP. Developed REST APIs and created User Model for application.  ? Used Django Framework in developing web applications to implement the model view control architecture.  ? Developed web-based application using Django framework with python concepts.  ? Worked on server-side applications with Django using Python programming and used python libraries like Beautiful Soup, matplotlib, SciPy, NumPy and built efficient backend for client web application.  ? Designed database Model, Views and API's using Python for interactive web-based solutions.  ? Used Python scripts to update the content in database and manipulate files. Python Developer / Intern Research Centre Imarat - IN June 2015 to December 2017 Responsibilities:  ? Developed entire backend modules using Python on Flask Web Framework.  ? Designed and developed data management system using MySQL and Flask.  ? Designed and developed web-based screens using PHP, CSS, HTML and Bootstrap.  ? Worked on Pycharm, Jupyter Notebook for development, Apache tomcat as an application server.  ? Designed and developed classes, HTML pages.  ? Involved in Software Development Life Cycle including requirements gathering, designing the application, implementing the design, testing and maintenance support.  ? Analyzed the system for requirements and design by developing Use Case, Class, Sequence and Collaboration diagrams using Rational Rose as part of UML.  ? Worked on deployment, debugging and fixing issues.  ? Reviewed Programming projects and reported weekly status to the programming managers. Education Master of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science NORTHERN ILLINOIS UNIVERSITY January 2017 to December 2018