Full stack developer Full stack <span class="hl">developer</span> Full stack developer - JP Morgan, NJ New York, NY Experience in Java 8 features such as streams, lambda expressions, Optional and latest Date API and Angular to implement single page applications. Experienced with microservices architecture, with Cloud Foundry (pivotal) Spring Boot-based services interacting through a combination of RESTful and RabbitMQ or Apache Kafka message brokers. Expertise in Microservice using Spring, Spring Boot, Spring Cloud to develop loosely coupled processes.  Experienced in Creating, Dropping Indexes, Tables, Stored Procs and Views on Oracle DB Experienced in creating and maintaining and AWS EC2 and RDS instances along with SNS, SQS, DynamoDB, CloudWatch, S3 and Lambda Functions. Extensive experience in Amazon Web Services (Amazon EC2, Amazon S3, Amazon Simple DB, Amazon RDS, Amazon Elastic Load Balancing, Amazon SQS, AWS Identity and access management, AWS Cloud Watch, Amazon EBS and Amazon Cloud Front). Extensive experience in Core Java 8, Spring Boot, Spring, Hibernate, Web Services, Kubernetes, Swagger, Docker. Experience building cloud native app with Spring Framework and Spring Boot. Extensively utilized the features provided by Hibernate, Struts and Spring framework in various projects for MVC architecture and develop cloud native microservices using Spring cloud and Spring Boot. Extensive working experience on migrating the large enterprise systems into Cloud Native Architecture model. Experienced in developing microservices using Java Spring Boot and Golang with Docker deployments Hands on experience in the implementation of Core Java SE 8 concepts like Streams API, Lambda functions, Generics, Time API, Functional Interfaces Multithreading, Transaction Management, Exception Handling and Collection API. Work Experience Full stack developer JP Morgan, NJ - Morgan, NJ October 2018 to Present Roles and Responsibilities    • Implemented microservices using Spring Boot, Spring Cloud, Spring Microservices, and enabled discovery.  • Used Java8 features in developing the code like Lambda expressions, creating resource classes, fetching documents from database.  • Worked on microservice-based architecture using spring boot for developing the microservices, Netflix components (eureka, ribbon), spring cloud for supporting the cloud native environment.  • Used Docker Engine and Docker Machine environment, to deploy the micro services-oriented environments for scalable application.  • Implemented responsive user interface and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the  • website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and JQuery.  • Used features of Java 8, like Lambda to facilitate functional programming and simplify the problem as well as stream feature of Java 8 for aggregate operation and pipelining.  • Converted all legacy applications to cloud native by Spring BOOT, Soring Cloud in to PCF (Pivotal Cloud Foundry).  • Implemented using Spring Boot. Worked with Docker and Kubernetes Microservices.  • Involved in design and development as a J2SE and J2EE Software developer on an Agile platform to development processes on Software Development life cycle (SDLC).  • Developed the application back-end by Golang and Apache Drill. Implemented functionality of front-end query by building handlers with RESTful APIs.  • Used Golang designed the toolkit for projects based on Docker along with Kubernetes.  • Used JPA and Hibernate for data-object mapping to enable persistence of the data Implemented DAO classes separately to modularize the data access component.  • Developed Spark application (Spark Core, Java 8, Spark Streaming, Apache Kafka, Yarn, HDFS) to read incoming files in near real time and process them within few seconds.  • Involved in migrating legacy applications to Cloud Native. Developing microservices using Spring Boot, Cloud, Camel, Eureka Discovery, Config service, Spring Data in to ePAAS (Enterprise Pivotal).  • Used Kubernetes to check logs and debugged several existing issues and fixed them.  • Worked on REST API and understanding of application design principles and cloud native apps development.  • Created internal diagnostic tools using Golang and AngularJS in order to assist with customer issues. Golang and Java were used as a backend REST service while AngularJS was used for the user interface.  • Converted a legacy-based application to REST based Java applications using Spring, JPA.  • Used Apache Camel and CXF in the JBoss Fuse ESB as the integration platform for SOA Services and Implemented Apache Camel routes using Camel-Spring XML and Camel-Spring processor beans.  • Created and managed microservices. Microservices were being used as a strategy to gradually replace a core monolithic application while still adding business features.  • Performed AWS Cloud administration managing EC2 instances, S3, Cloud Formation, SES and SNS services.  • Developing predictive analytic using Apache Spark Scala APIs and involved in development of presentation layer using JSP and Servlets.  • Implemented Spring MVC, IOC, Spring Boot, Spring JDBC template, Spring MyBatis, JSON features.  • Extensively interacted with data analysts during the ETL operations in identifying the source.  • Used Maven to manage dependencies and developed test cases and performed unit testing and deployed the J2EE applications to Application Servers using Ant, Maven & Shell Scripts for creating Build Scripts.  • Spring Data MongoDB was used to integrate MongoDB document database with application.  • Developed Spark code using Scala and Spark-SQL/Streaming for faster processing of data and Involved in design and development using Java/ J2EE, Collection frameworks.  • Experience with function block logic controls design software development using MATLAB  Simulink and State flow diagrams.  • Written Junit test cases for testing UI Framework classes and wrote many JavaScript, D3, JSON, Three JS to do client-side validations and migrated several Java Batch Applications and Services from the On-premise infrastructure to Google Cloud Platform.  • Created a Call Centre data entry application in Grails to generate management statistics.  • Responsible for designing the User Interface by coding in HTML5, CSS3, Servlets, DHTML, AngularJS, XSL/XSLT bootstrap to build this SPA (Single Page Application).  • Designed and Developed End to End customer self service module using annotation-based Spring MVC, Hibernate, and JQuery. AWS/ Python Developer CITI GROUP - Atlanta, GA August 2017 to September 2018 Roles and Responsibilities    • Simplified client-side scripting of HTML 5 using JQuery, a cross-browser JavaScript library.  • Developed various APIs to be consumed by other modules of the application using RESTful web services and Used Junit framework for unit testing of application and Log4j to capture the logs.  • Developed Spark programs using Scala to convert the complex hive queries.  • Created Spring Batches for running batch jobs and documented the use of Spring Batch and responsible in testing the classes and methods using JUnit test case as well as designed and developed the REST based Microservices using the Spring Boot with JPA.  • Develop dashboard for client health and performance (Node.js/Express backend / D3 frontend).  • Involved in setting up Grails project and its configuration and Implemented Grails Services and controllers to perform actions.  • Closely worked and supported the creation of database schema objects (tables, stored procedures and triggers) using Cassandra, SQL/PLSQL.  • Develop integration techniques using the Apache camel and Apache ActiveMQ technologies and experience using Fuse/Apache Kafka as integration platform and Apache ActiveMQ as messaging platform.  • Involved in developing front end screens using JSP, Struts View Tags, Bootstrap, JSTL, DHTML, CSS3 and JavaScript, and jQuery.  • Developed high-performance web applications using Struts & JQuery and XML HTTP Request.  • Designed the Cassandra ring on a multi-node cluster and then moved the entire Cassandra setup into AWS, involving Cassandra migration to EC2.  • Bash scripting supporting Linux and Solaris servers. Valuable experience working with Java and C programming languages.  • Deployed and monitored scalable infrastructure with AWS configuration management  • Used MongoDB and the Play 2.5 Framework in application-server implementation.  • Developed application using Java, Spring Boot, Hibernate, HTML5, Bootstrap, Angular JS, Node.JS, Rest, SQL and CSS on AWS.  • Written client-side code using Web Services- JAX-WS based on SOA microservice architecture.  • Designed and developed Groovy Grails applications for end users.  • Deployed projects into Heroku using GIT version control system and implemented Action classes (Action Servlet, Action) and Form beans (Action Form) using Struts Framework.  • Experienced in deploying J2EE applications over servers like Apache Tomcat 4.x, and WebLogic, WebSphere servers.  • Created dynamic and interactive Data visualizations with D3 charts and AngularJS.  • Developed helper classes using Core Java multi-threaded programming and collection classes.  • Developed front-end code with Ajax call in AngularJS and jQuery to retrieve data as JSON Object from controllers in back-end RESTful Server.  • Used Maven Scripts to build and deploy applications and helped to deployment for Continuous Integration using Jenkin and Maven.  • Involved in the coding of Distributed Multi-threaded Enterprise applications using J2EE technologies Servlets, EJB, RMI, JDBC and JMS.  • Used microservice architecture using Spring Boot to develop Restful Web service.  • Used Amazon web services to extract the data from cloud. Used AWS SDK for connection to Amazon S3 buckets to store and retrieve the files.  • Implemented an automated functional testing suite by using JUnit for tests and Jenkins for CI, made builds using Jenkins.  • Hands on experience in creating reports using reporting tools like Jasper Reports, D3.  • Deployed flow of Execution in the Servlet Environment using STRUTS and defined Navigation Rules. AWS Engineer Amazon - IN September 2016 to June 2017 Roles and Responsibilities    • Developed a JavaScript UI for a credit-reporting application using Angular.js, Marionette.js, Backbone.js, Node.js and CSS.  • Designed and Implemented MVC architecture using Struts Framework which involved writing Action Classes/Forms/Custom Tag Libraries JSP pages.  • Implemented Design Patterns, such as Singleton Factory, to add definition. Developed action forms and controllers in Struts 2 framework.  • Used MongoDB as a persistent store and Apache Kafka as a messaging layer for custom.  • Coded controller classes to expose spring RESTful web services and service Implementation classes as well as responsible for Coding using JSP, Java Servlets, Struts and XML.  • Used core Java/J2EE components for tuning the application compatible with the new application server configuration and used Maven tool to build project and JUnit to develop unit test cases.  • Researched JBPM process- engine, toward implementation of personnel flow-control system.  • Involved in developing front-end screens using JSP, Struts View Tags, Bootstrap, JSTL, DHTML, CSS3 and JavaScript, and jQuery.  • Enhanced and supported existing MEAN (MongoDB, Express, Angular and Node) stack applications.  • Implemented RESTFUL web services for real-time transactions using Struts Validation framework and JavaScript for server-side and front-end validation.  • Used JDBC template in spring-batch project to interact with the DB while using Eclipse as Java IDE in application development. Software Developer IBM - IN October 2015 to August 2016 Roles and Responsibilities    • Integrating GIT and Clear Case with Cruise Control, Jenkins.  • Designed and implemented UI for General Information pages and Administrator functionality.  • Programmed data management, security and communication framework modules using Java, HTML, JavaScript /DHTML, Bootstrap, JSP, Servlets, XML/XSLT, XPath, and SQL  • Combined multiple existing batch applications into a single Spring Batch application to promote code reusability and maintainability.  • Worked on the Web Services using SOAP and RESTful web services  • Implemented migration tasks from Oracle apps to PostgreSQL databases also installed and configured JBOSS/Drools server with MySQL.  • Used GIT along with Stash to maintain separate repositories for different stories in JIRA  • Produced/consumed WSDL-based web services using WSDL, SOAP, JAX-WS, AXIS, and others  • Developed web services using RESTful technology to support JSON and XML using JAX-RS.  • Designed frontend using JSP and business logic in Servlets, also used HTML, JSP, JSP Tag Libraries, and Struts Tiles develop presentation tier.  • Used CVS as a documentation repository and version controlling tool. Education Bachelor's Skills Amazon web services, Apache spark, Api, Docker, Front-end, Java, Javascript, React, Python, Angularjs, Node, Angular, jQuery, Angular 1.x, 2/4/5/6/7, JavaScript, Spring Framework, Hibernate, JDBC, JSP, Servlet, Web Services (REST/SOAP) API technologies (REST, XML, JSON) Agile REST, SpringBoot, JSON, JMS topics/queue