AWS Developer AWS <span class="hl">Developer</span> AWS Developer Hightstown, NJ Experienced Senior AWS Developer with a demonstrated history of working across various verticals in the information technology and services department. Experienced in all phases of the software development life-cycle (SDLC) with specific focus on the build and release of quality software. Experienced in Waterfall, Agile/Scrum, Lean and most recently Continuous Integration (CI) and Continuous Deployment (CD) practices.  Hands on experience of Build & Deployment phase and usage of Continuous Integration (CI/CD) tools, build configuration, change history for releases, Maintenance of build system, automation & smoke test processes, managing, configuring, and maintaining source control management systems. Experience in using version control tools like GIT/GIT Hub. Worked on Jenkins for continuous integration and for End to End automation for all build and deployments. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience AWS Developer McGraw Hill - Hightstown, NJ May 2018 to May 2018 Roles and Responsibilities    • Experienced in Automating, Configuring and deploying instances on AWS, environments and Data centers, also familiar with EC2, Cloud watch, Cloud Formation and managing security groups on AWS.  • Private Cloud Environment - Leveraging AWS and Puppet to rapidly provision internal computer systems for various clients.  • Deployment to AWS with Chef, Ansible and Terraform towards AWS, and using Terraform for building, updating, and versioning infrastructure safely and efficiently, as well as creating custom in-house solutions with Chef or Puppet configurations.  • Develop Puppet modules and role/profiles for installation and configuration of software for required for various applications/blueprints.  • Configured and managing S3 storage.  • Experience with an in-depth level of understanding in the strategy and practical implementation of AWS Cloud-Specific technologies including EC2, EBS, S3, VPC, RDS, SES, ELB, EMR, ECS, Cloud Front, Cloud Formation, Elastic Cache, Cloud Watch, RedShift, Lambda, SNS, Dynamo DB  • Experience in AWS Cloud platform and its features which includes EC2, VPC, EBS, AMI, SNS, RDS, EBS, CloudWatch, Cloud Trail, CloudFormation AWS Config, Auto scaling, CloudFront, IAM, S3  • Created and configured elastic load balancers and auto scaling groups to distribute the traffic and to have a cost efficient, fault tolerant and highly available environment.  • Created S3 buckets in the AWS environment to store files, sometimes which are required to serve static content for a web application.  • Configured S3 buckets with various life cycle policies to archive the infrequently accessed data to storage classes based on requirement.  • Wrote Ansible playbooks for automating the process of provisioning custom Docker containers using AWS EC2 machines as hosts  • Assist in designing, automating, implementing and sustainment of Amazon machine images (AMI) across the AWS Cloud environment  • Experience with AWS API Gateway and Rest APIs. Experience with NoSQL data-stores like HBase, Cassandra.  • Analytical skills with ability to capture minute details and an effective team player, my strength lies in ability to interact with developers, coordinate and manage the tasks assigned, backed by strong technical knowledge. AWS/ Python Developer Walgreens - Deerfield, IL June 2017 to March 2018 Roles and Responsibilities    • Creating servers, AMIs, storage blocks in S3, taking snapshots, VPCs, subnets, load balancing and auto-scaling in Assigning and implementing fully automated server build, management, monitoring and deployment solutions spanning multiple platforms, tools and technologies including Jenkins Nodes/Agents, Chef, SSH, Amazon EC2 and packaging, deployment and testing.  • Installation and configuration of Git, merging code from develop branch to master branch and make it ready for deployment.  • Used Elastic search with Java to fetch data based on bool queries, used Redis, Guava for cache mechanism.  • Involved in the development of the UI using JSP, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS. Worked on JavaScript framework (Backbone.JS) to augment browser-based applications with MVC capability.  • Managed the artifacts generated by Maven and Gradle in the Nexus repository and Converted Pom.xml into build.  • Launching Amazon EC2 Cloud Instances using Amazon Web Services (Linux/Ubuntu) and configuring launched instances with respect to specific applications.  • Manage Amazon Redshift clusters such as launching the cluster and specifying the node type.  • Used AWS Beanstalk for deploying and scaling web applications and services developed with Java.  • End to end deployment ownership for projects on AWS. This includes Python scripting for automation, scalability, builds promotions for staging to production  • Designed infrastructure for AWS application and workflow using Terraform and had done implementation and continuous delivery of AWS infrastructure using Terraform.  • Launching and configuring of Amazon EC2 (AWS) Cloud Servers using AMI's (Linux/Ubuntu) and configuring the servers for specified applications using Jenkins  • Setup and launch Amazon Linux and RHEL and Windows ec2 instances, network interface with Elastic IP's.  • Designed, configured and deployed Amazon Web Services (AWS) for a multitude of applications utilizing the Amazon Web Services focusing on high-availability, fault tolerance and auto-scaling. AWS Engineer Sprint Corporation - Overland Park, KS February 2014 to December 2015 Roles and Responsibilities    • Managed datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL, performed MySQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL DB package to retrieve information.  • Developed module to build Django ORM queries that can pre-load data to greatly reduce the number of databases queries needed to retrieve the same amount of data.  • Created Python scripts to automate AWS services which include web servers, ELB, Cloud Front distribution, database, EC2 and database security groups, S3 bucket and application configuration.  • Designed and developed the presentation layer/client end and handled all the client-side validation using JavaScript.  • Cleaned data and processed third party spending data into maneuverable deliverables within specific formats with Excel macros and python libraries.  • Wrote AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings.  • Used Object-Oriented design and coding, various Design Patterns and UML and Wrote Python OO Design code for manufacturing quality, monitoring, logging, and debugging code optimization.  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  • Set up Unix server to support a TCP/IP local net of windows XP clients and an Unix server in an office environment.  • Performed efficient delivery of code based on principles of Test-Driven Development (TDD) and continuous integration to keep in line with Agile Software Methodology principles. Software Developer HCL - IN 2011 to November 2013 Roles and Responsibilities    • Integrating GIT and Clear Case with Cruise Control, Jenkins.  • Used AGILE MVN method to develop a build and MAVEN as a build tool.  • Embrace process automation and drive continuous deployment methodologies as an integral part as a Development Operations professional.  • Executed QA services for enhancing efficiency of technologies AND related updates for cloud storage applications.  • Created comprehensive JIRA workflows including project workflows, screen schemes, permission schemes, notification schemes.  • Involved in development of Test environment on Docker containers and configuring the Docker containers using Kubernetes.  • Experience moving Java/J2EE applications and Databases into Cloud.  • Extracted data from various sources like Oracle, Flat files, External files and transformed the data based on Business requirements and loading into Oracle target database.  • Involved in developing JUNIT Test Cases to validate the type of data in the XML Files.  • Performed SQL tuning using SQL Trace, explain plan for optimizing query performance.  • Developed test cases and performed unit and integration testing when needed. Collaborated with users, database administrators, and team members involved in the project implementation. Education Bachelor's Skills AMAZON WEB SERVICES, APACHE SPARK, API, DOCKER, FRONT-END, Git, Hadoop, HDFS, Hive, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, BOOTSTRAP, D3.JS, NODE.JS, REACTJS, JENKINS, JSON, MapReduce, OAUTH, OBJECT ORIENTED, SQL, Java Script., Oops, RDS, S3, IAM, Lambda, API Gateway deploying libraries in AWS DevOps cloud CI/CD pipelines GIT Big data environment CloudWatch, CloudTrail astic Stack, Microservice Architecture and DevOps: CloudFormation Ansible, Auto Scaling. DevOps tooling, including: CloudFormation, Puppet, Jenkins IAM Policy design and management AWS Networking knowledge (VPC) Cloud Formation Elastic Cache Cloud,S3, Amazon EC2 Amazon S3 Spring MVC, JSP; AJAX; JavaScript; Apache Maven,ESB Python,Flask, Boot. STaaS,big data solutions. GO AWS SQS Docker Cassandra Apache Kafka Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information Skill Set    Programming Languages/Skills: Object Oriented Programming (OOP), Python, Java, Go, SQL, PL/SQL, Socket Programming  Front-end Technologies: HTML/HTML5, CSS, AJAX, Bootstrap, JavaScript, Node.js, AngularJS, ReactJS, Responsive Web Design, Flash, jQuery, JSON, D3.js, Highcharts, Kendo UI  Databases: MySQL, Oracle, Sybase, IBM DB2, MongoDB, Cassandra, PostgreSQL  Cloud Technologies: Amazon Web Services (AWS), Rackspace, OpenStack  Big Data Technologies: Hadoop, HDFS, Pig, Hive, MapReduce, Oozie, Flume, Zookeeper, Sqoop  CI/CD Technologies: Jenkins, Ansible, Chef, Docker, Puppet, SaltStack  Version Control Tools: Git, Mercurial, GitLab, BitBucket, GitHub  Python Libraries: NumPy, SciPy, Pandas, Requests, Scrapy, SQLAlchemy, BeautifulSoup, matplotlib, pyQT, IPython, Bokeh  IDEs: PyCharm, PyDev, Spyder, IntelliJ, Komodo, Sublime Text  Programming Methodologies: Agile/Scrum, Waterfall, Hybrid  Operating Systems: Windows, Linux/Unix/Ubuntu, MacOS, CentOS, Sun Solaris  Additional Skill Sets: Micro Services, API, RESTful Web Services, SOAP, PEP-8, ELK Stack (Elasticsearch, Logstash, Kibana), Kafka, Kanban, Apache Spark, LAMP and WAMP Architecture, Heroku, Socket Programming, Celery, Redis, RabbitMQ, XML, XSLT, Apigee, MuleSoft, LDAP, HTTP security, identity management, OAuth, YAML, Bash and Shell Scripting, Terraform, VMWare, design pattern.