Senior Developer Senior <span class="hl">Developer</span> Guidewire developer Newark, OH I currently work at Nationwide as a Sr. developer. I work on PolicyCenter defects and Edge build projects. I'm looking for more opportunities to learn front-end development skills as I transition to be a full stack developer. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Developer Nationwide - Columbus, OH February 2016 to Present Guidewire/Gosu developer correcting defects and build projects in Edge. Call Center Representative JPMorgan Chase - Columbus, OH July 2015 to Present Responsibilities  Answered 50-80 calls per day. Assisted customers with general credit card issues.    Skills Used  Customer Service Current Projects Home Present I am currently reading the book Professional Java for Web Applications. The table of contents can be found at http://www.wrox.com/WileyCDA/WroxTitle/Professional-Java-for-Web-Applications.productCd-1118656466,descCd-tableOfContents.html. It includes information on JSP's, Web sockets, Servlets, JPA Security, Maven, and the Spring Framework. Android Workout Application School Project Worked as part of a team of five individuals to create an Android Workout Application, which helped reinforce SDLC and Agile methodology. The user was able to create a workout with numerous exercises. Each exercise contained the amount of time for the exercise, a voice player for hands free use, and the ability to play, pause, or stop the workout.  Android Studio, Android SDK, Eclipse, Java 1.6/1.7 Java, Python, and Ada Interpreter School Project Worked individually to create an interpreter that would read a file, compile the language specific instructions, and execute those instructions in Java, Python, and Ada. During the project, I learned the differences between programming languages, reinforced programming principles, and object oriented methodologies. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science Kennesaw State University - Kennesaw, GA 2009 to 2015 Skills Java SE 1.7, Eclipse, JUnit,m, C#, Rational Software Architect, Design Patterns, SQL, Microsoft Studio 2008, HTML 5, CSS 3, MySQL/PostgreSQL, C, Notepad ++/ Emacs, Python 3.3, Aptana Studio, Ada, GNAT Programming Studio, Android, Android Studio/IntelliJ IDEA, Windows/Unix, Design Patterns, OOP, SQL Server Certifications/Licenses Guidewire certificate May 2016 to Present