Python tool developer <span class="hl">Python</span> tool <span class="hl">developer</span> Python tool developer - ADAS ECU Abstraction To work in a globally competitive environment on challenging assignments that shall yield a steady-paced professional growth. To become a part of a professional and highly successful team involved in implementing innovative ideas and latest technological trends Work Experience Python tool developer ADAS ECU Abstraction May 2018 to Present Environment Python  Tools Pywin  Responsibilities  • Development of tool which takes all the csv files which contains data of functionality of radar, processing those data and plotting 3D graphs using matplotlib.  • Demonstrating the results by finding the peak power of radar at a pass frequencies.    Project Diagnostic tool development lead and architect for damlier clusters  Customer continental  Period May'19- present  Description  Diagnostic tool is used in damlier cluster inorder to unlock the cluster and fetch dtc information from the cluster and for various other diagnostic information.    Role Embedded programmer and project lead.  Environment Linux, arm controllers, c++.  Responsibilities  • Development diagnostic module from hardware to software.  • Developing application, middle ware, hardware layer for the diagnostic tool.  • Resuing autosar diag code and porting to the IMX6 solox processor  • Controller programming.  • Application layer development using C++ and QT Microcontroller programmer, device driver developer for can, canfd, Ethernet ADAS ECU Abstraction May 2017 to Present layer Develoment.  Customer continental  Period May'17 - present  Description  ADAS is advanced driver assistance system which include camera sensors and Radar sensors which are used to detect object and control the brakes and automatically steers the car.  ADAS ECUS uses customisable NXP microcontroller of 32 bits and are of quad core(cortex M4, cortex A9, Cortex A54, cortex A59) and has external microchip controllers(can, canfd, Ethernet) and external EEPROM memory and additional memory for storing DEMs and DTCs.Each core has a dedicated functions and communicate with each other using RPMSG.    Role Microcontroller programmer, device driver developer for can, canfd, Ethernet.  Environment Linux, C, FreeRtos.  Tools VMware(Fedora), AUTOSAR.  Responsibilities  • Development of Can drivers and Rest bus for ADAS ECUS.  • Interfacing can, canfd, Ethernet External controllers with NXP processor using spi and I2c.  • Developmengt of inter-core communication between cortex-m4 and A9 using RPMGS concept  • Development of automated Rest bus creation from DBC file and scheduling each message at required time stamp.  • Development of FreeRtos application code. Microcontroller programmer, device driver developer for can, canfd ADAS ECU Abstraction May 2017 to Present Customer continental  Period May'17 - present  Description  ADAS is advanced driver assistance system which include camera sensors and Radar sensors which are used to detect object and control the brakes and automatically steers the car.  ADAS ECUS uses customisable NXP microcontroller of 32 bits and are of quad core(cortex M4, cortex A9, Cortex A54, cortex A59) and has external microchip controllers(can, canfd, Ethernet) and external EEPROM memory and additional memory for storing DEMs and DTCs.Each core has a dedicated functions and communicate with each other using RPMSG.    Role Microcontroller programmer, device driver developer for can, canfd, Ethernet, eeprom  Environment Linux, C, FreeRtos.  Tools VMware(Fedora), AUTOSAR.  Responsibilities  • Development of Can drivers and Rest bus for ADAS ECUS.  • Interfacing can, canfd, Ethernet External controllers with NXP processor using spi and I2c.  • Developmengt of inter-core communication between cortex-m4 and A9 using RPMGS concept  • Development of automated Rest bus creation from DBC file and scheduling each message at required time stamp.  • Development of FreeRtos application code.    Project Cyber security layer development for continental autosar framework.  Customer continental  Period May'17 - present  Description  Vehicles on the road are vulnerable to hacking, both in the car itself and via the back-end IT systems to which they connect. Hacks into cars have attracted a lot of media attention. OEMs are aware of the need to secure vehicles, and to reassure customers who fear cars will be easily hacked.    Role Algorithm developer.  Environment Data structures and Algorithms.  Tools C++, C, Autosar  Responsibilities  • Development of various cyber security algorithms.  • Reusing existing encryption algorithms like aes, cmac, triple des, rsa algorithms    Project Python tool development for analysis of peak power, bandwidth, frequeny of Radars and plotting matlab 3D graphs.  Customer continental Education B.Tech Rvr and Jc college of engineering 2015 Seetha college 2011 S.S.C Holy spirit School 2009 College and University