Application Developer Application <span class="hl">Developer</span> Application Developer - Agency Matrix Artesia, CA Goal oriented, forward thinking, results driven professional with  extensive experience driving efficiency and excellence throughout  all aspects of Software Development. Challenges and opportunities  for advancement are welcome and expected. Exceptional  communication and relationship building skill. Ability to multi-task and  manage large projects in high risk, fast paced environment. Work Experience Application Developer Agency Matrix - Duluth, GA February 2019 to Present United States  Description- Development of server-side logic, troubleshoot, test and maintain  the core product software and databases to ensure strong optimization and functionality while collaborating with other developers to maintain and add new  features to a the product: Cloud Based Insurance Management System.  Responsibilities:  - Analyzed & Optimized SQL Queries for customized reporting system.  - Optimized Script to parse through AL3, XML, CSV, eDocs files to extract data, transform it to correct data type and load it to database.  - Modified and Optimized Insurance Calculations to meet the required load  time.  - Fixes and modification to CI Pipelines.  - Fixes to Immediate bugs of the system.  Technical Skill:  Front-end: HTML5 CSS3 Bootstrap Vue jS JavaScript jQuery React.js  Angular  Back-end: Laravel Phalcon Python PHP MySQL Apache Spark  Hadoop MariaDB  Tools: Git Gitlab Postman Chrome Development Tools Agile AWS  Docker Gherkins Mantis Tableau Talent Acquisition Manager ETLLogix January 2019 to Present United States  Description: Recruiting, Marketing and Management of Healthcare Candidates to meet the requirement and staffing needs of a Hospitals and Healthcare  clinics. SPECIALIST UNITED STATES ARMY February 2015 to Present Description- Assist in the establishment of CBRN defense measures.  • Provide training advice and supervision regarding CBRN equipment and operations  • Train military and civilian personnel on CBRN response operations  • Operate and maintain CBRN detection and decontamination equipment  • Serve on Biological Integrated Detection Teams, STRYKER NBC  Reconnaissance Platoons, Technical Python Developer Irving, TX September 2018 to January 2019 Description: Responsible for the design, development and support of the Web- based content. Provided support to integration efforts between the company's  content provider and the technology environments.  Responsibilities:  Implemented business logic using Python 2.7.  Used Python, Django and Zope frameworks to develop applications.  Used HTML, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery and Implemented AJAX for dynamic  functionality of a webpages for front end applications.  Worked on front end frame works like Bootstrap for responsive webpages.  Implemented SQL Alchemy which is a python ORM library for complete access over SQL.  Designed object model, data model, tables, constraints, necessary stored  procedures, functions, triggers, and packages for projects.  Used Python library Beautiful Soup for web scrapping.  Worked on Python OpenStack APIs and used NumPy for Numerical analysis.  Used AJAX and jQuery for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  Implemented monitoring and established best practices around using elastic  search.  Installed and configured monitoring scripts for AWS EC2 instances.  Worked with the design team for project structure.  Created a Git repository and added the project to GitHub.  Wrote Python scripts to parse XML and JSON documents and load the data in database.  All projects adhered to agile principles to deliver commitments, meet  acceptance criteria and ensure fast releases.  Handled all the client-side validation using Python Forms. Escort Battalions Srimatrix Inc Education Center for Domestic Prepardness 2016 to 2016 Hazardous Materials Management and Waste Technology Center for Domestic Preparedness 2016 to 2016 Bachelor of Science in Systems and Network Administration in Systems and Network Administration Bellevue University 2016 Computer Science US Army Chemical Bilogical Radiological and Nuclear School 2015 to 2015 Skills Amazon web services, Python, Sql, Web services Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/ankit-panta-0824b0125?jobid=1234&lipi=urn%3Ali%3Apage%3Ad_jobs_easyapply_pdfgenresume%3BSxwZCllJTSu%2FP3tyQT2MVw%3D%3D&licu=urn%3Ali%3Acontrol%3Ad_jobs_easyapply_pdfgenresume-v02_profile Additional Information Top Skills  Python  SQL  Amazon Web Services (AWS)