Python <span class="hl">Python</span> Milpitas, CA Dedicated to optimization experienced Python Developer and DevOps Engineer understands the melding of operations. Brings a Master's Degree in Computer Information Systems and experience working as a DevOps Engineer. Performance driven individual with good customer service skills, problem solving, attention to detail and confident. Work Experience Python EMPOWER - Boston, MA April 2018 to Present • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python in order to build an interactive web based solution  • Extensive experience in implementing Continuous Integration and Continuous Delivery (using Jenkins) in an AWS Environment  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on FLASK Framework  • Experiance in using bitbucket  • Involved in the Database structuring, Tables creation, writing database queries, stored procedures and functions needed for the project using Oracle12c  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Worked on AWS Cloud and Created instances in EC2  • Developed internal auxiliary web apps using Python Flask framework with CSS / HTML framework.  • Created entire application using Python, Flask, MySQL and Windows  • Created a Git repository and added the project to Gitlab  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface PYTHON DEVELOPER Experian March 2017 to November 2017 7  • Received best team performer award for three consecutive months.  • Involved in the Database structuring, Tables creation, writing database queries, stored procedures and functions needed for the project using Oracle12c  • Responsible for increase in Developers Productivity through CI pipeline automation.  • Automated Jenkins CI builds and deployment infrastructure for multiple projects.  • Experience in parallelism and distributed builds with Jenkins and Maven.  • Involved in writing services to write core logic for business processes  • Developing scripts for build, deployment, maintenance and related tasks using Jenkins, Docker, Maven, Python and Bash.  • Developing Docker images to support Development teams and their pipelines.  • Developed web pages using, HTML5, CSS and performed client side validations  • Worked on Docker container creation and running pods in Kubernetes.  • Designed complicated databases on MySQL and Oracle DB.  • Knowledge in core AWS services (S3, EC2, ELB, EBS).  • Good Multitasking skills with interpersonal communication skills. Education Masters in Computers University of Northwestern October 2016 B. Tech in Computer Science J.N.T. University - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2012 Skills PYTHON (Less than 1 year), DEPLOYMENT (Less than 1 year), CAPACITY PLANNING (Less than 1 year), EXCELLENT COMMUNICATION SKILLS (Less than 1 year), LINUX (Less than 1 year) Additional Information Core Competencies  • Amazon Web Services. • Continuous Deployment Skills  • Capacity Planning for Web Services • Python programmer  • Linux and Unix shell scripting • Continuous Monitoring Skills  • Agile Methodologies experience • Excellent Communication Skills