Golang developer Golang <span class="hl">developer</span> Kazan 4+ years of experience in software development    3+ years of Python and Go    Knowledges in OOP    Using of PostgreSQL    Clear and clean code    Machine learning Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Golang developer November 2016 to Present infotech.group  Used technologies: Go, Apache Kafka, python for Tensor Flow library, opencv.  Developed custom consumers and producers for Apache Kafka in Go (golang) for cars monitoring  system.  Designed and implemented system for video monitoring, used ip cameras.  Developed motion detection and image recognition services, used convolution neural networks models for recognition  Developed and implemented sync tools between postgres db based application and REST API based  application with complicated business logic Python developer, QA Cinarra Systems April 2016 to November 2016 Used technologies: Python, robot framework, pytest  Designed and implemented regression tests for RTB system  implemented libraries for testing and generating data for reports  Refactored current system of tests, separated libraries and tests  Worked with CI tool like maven and jenkins.  Worked with sql and no-sql databases like couchbase and postgres    https://www.visualcv.com/zv7ixb9bogu Python developer BARS Group April 2014 to April 2016 Used technologies: Python(Django), JavaScript(ExtJs), PostgreSQL, Celery.  Developed high-load web services which related with medical disease cases and servicing bills.  Implemented reports for medical institutions and Insurance companies in pure SQL and ORM.  Refactored of legacy code, done a lot of code review.  Designed and developed ExtJS based calendar with complex functionality.  Optimized huge and slow SQL request in Postgres database, used aggregation, join's and explain  queries  Designed and implemented parsers for disease cases based on xml templates Trainee June 2013 to April 2014 digitalbanana  Used technologies: PHP (Codeigniter, YII), JavaScript, Ajax, jquery, CSS and HTML(Twitter Bootstrap), MySQL.  Developed small and medium web services.  Integrated and customized google maps on shop. Education Master in computer science Kazan State University 2015 to 2017 Skills JAVASCRIPT (1 year), PYTHON (3 years), SQL (2 years), DJANGO (3 years), AJAX (Less than 1 year), Go (Less than 1 year) Links https://www.visualcv.com/zv7ixb9bogu Additional Information Skills    Go: Apache Kafka(Sarama), mongo db(mgo)    Python: 2+ years, Django, scikit-learn, tensorflow, opencv, keras, pandas, theano (machine learning)    JavaScript: Ext JS 3.x, Ajax, JQuery, Twitter Bootstrap    C++: 2 years, academic, algorithms, data structure, graphs    Version control: Git, Mercurial  Unix: Linux, Mac OS X (advanced)    SQL/No-SQL: 2+ years PostgreSQL, mongo, couch base    Continues Integration: Jenkins, Maven    Technologies    https://www.visualcv.com/zv7ixb9bogu