Forward Deployed Engineer Forward Deployed Engineer Forward Deployed Engineer - ActionIQ New York, NY Work Experience Forward Deployed Engineer ActionIQ - New York, NY January 2018 to Present ? Deploy and debug ActionIQ software to deliver distributed data solutions to marketing and analytics teams  ? Write code in Python and Scala to handle customer-specific and Field Team-specific use cases  ? Translate issues and requests between non-technical customers and highly technical engineers and managers  ? Build SQL queries to validate the transfer of customer data into ActionIQ and to construct custom tables Audience Science, Technology Intern Viacom - New York, NY January 2017 to December 2017 ? Using D3, developed visualizations for exploratory data analysis to be used by internal teams across all of Viacom  ? Used SASS, HTML, and JavaScript to create reusable UI components and styling for Audience Science platform  ? Ensured quality of code through peer code-review and cross-browser testing  ? Built dashboards and reports around data from website traffic and interactions to facilitate actionable insights Software Development Intern Verizon Innovation Labs - Waltham, MA June 2017 to August 2017 Using React Native and Redux, developed mobile applications that interacted with Verizon's IoT products Grader/Tutor for Intro to Computer Programming New York University - New York, NY January 2016 to May 2017 ? Provided critical feedback for students' coding assignments in Python  ? Debugged students' code and made suggestions for syntactic and structural improvements Python Developer Intern Kelvin - New York, NY May 2016 to September 2016 ? Developed an internal API using Flask framework for Python  ? Rewrote codebase Javascript to use React.js library  ? Designed database schemas using SQLAlchemy Education Bachelor of Arts in Computer Science New York University - New York, NY December 2017 Skills Django, Firebase, Hadoop, Html, Javascript, D3.js, Python, Flask, Mysql, Sql, Scala, Hadoop, Mongodb, Css, Java, Apache Spark, D3.js Links http://linkedin.com/in/lauramchevalier http://github.com/laurachevalier4 https://www.etsy.com/shop/LauraLikesArt%E2%80%8B Additional Information Projects    • ResidencyApp:? (React.js, React Native, AWS Amplify) A mobile application and admin web portal currently in use by a residency program at the Cleveland Clinic  • QuickCare:? (React Native, Firebase) A mobile application to facilitate communication between patients and nurses  • Kora?: (Django, MapReduce, GCS) A Quora-like app to aid high school juniors and seniors in their college decision  • Grab it by the Giphy?: (JavaScript, Clarifai and Giphy APIs) A Google Chrome extension which replaces embedded web  • images of a celebrity of your choice with a gif of your choice  • Anon:? (Express.js, D3.js and MongoDB) A web app which polls users and visualizes results based on demographic  • No Swiping?: (Flask and SQLAlchemy) A web platform for general lending and borrowing