Assistant System Engineer Assistant System Engineer Assistant System Engineer - Tata Consultancy Services • 1.9 years of experience in IT as a Python and Machine learning developer.  • Extensive understanding of E2E python web application.  • Exposure to different phases of project using Agile and Waterfall Methodologies.  • 6+ month of experience in Research and development domain.  • 1.9 years' experience in Analysis, Design, Development and Implementation. Thorough hands-on experience  on Jupyter Notebook, Visual Code, Django framework RASA, JIRA, QC (Quality Centre), Service Now.  • Involved in creation of two static chatbots.  • Research experience on variety of real world datasets and implementing through various machine learning  models.  • Proficient in MS-Office Suite.  • Strong Analytical, Communication and Problem solving skills.  CAREER ASPIRATION  • To gain knowledge and implement my learning as a Data Scientist.  • Enhance my Analytics, Machine Learning and Statistical knowledge to develop efficient models for analytics.  • To gain some insights of Deep learning, NLP. Work Experience Assistant System Engineer Tata Consultancy Services July 2017 to Present Python & ML Developer June 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Developing analytical model using python and SQLs as per requirement.  • Creation of API's.  • Research on the POC's (Chatbot, ML, RASA, Obfuscation).  • Experience in Unit Testing, Integration testing and System Testing.  • Created various test documents varying from Test Plans, Test Scripts, Test Results, TiC Reports.  • Analysis of existing system.  • E2E development using Django Framework. Education Bachelor of Technology in Electronics and Communication SRM University - Chennai, TAMIL NADU, IN 2017 Secondary School Certificate in Examination Central Board of Secondary Education 2013 Secondary School Certificate Central Board of Secondary Education 2011 Additional Information SKILL SUMMARY    Domain Banking / Research and Development    Working Methodologies Agile, Scrum and Kanban Board    Python (numpy, pandas, matplotlib, scipy & scikit-learn), RASA, Django -  web development, Django - Rest Framework  Technologies Machine Learning, OOPS