General Laborer General Laborer Milton, FL Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience General Laborer WIND TURBINE & ENERGY CABLES - Milton, FL June 2018 to Present • Assemble various wiring harnesses used in wind turbines using various hand tools. The types of harnesses that are assembled include: hub to slip ring communication harnesses, vibration sensor harnesses, and yaw control harnesses.   • Assemble wires of various types and gauges by putting on connectors, labeling, and heat shrinking.   • Assemble boxes and PVC packing kits to send the harnesses in. Office Clerk U.S. Army - Fort Bragg, NC December 2017 to June 2018 Fort Bragg, NC  Office Administration, Dec 2017 - Jun 2018  • Provide support for organization including organizing and coordinating resources for various projects  • Assist in maintaining various records for all of the employees in the organization  • Provide customer service to employees that needed assistance in administrative issues  • Maintain and update the unit commander's policy memos Freelance Programmer Chicago, IL June 2017 to December 2017 • Provided solutions to client issues using the Python Programming language  • Provided solutions to client website issues using HTML, CSS, and JavaScript Python Application Developer Sebis Direct - Chicago, IL June 2016 to October 2016 • Utilize open source platforms to provide document processing development solutions to various corporations in order to streamline the flow of critical business documents to their clients  • Work with a small team of developers to develop and deploy document processing applications that are focused around document imaging and document mailing  • Develop and deploy applications using various techniques and technologies to include:  ? Linux Shell Scripting and Linux Server Administration  ? the Python Programming Language  ? Object Oriented Programming  ? PostgreSQL databases  ? XML, XSL, XSL:FO, and XSLT  ? Subversion Platoon Leader U.S. Army, Camp Red Cloud March 2015 to March 2016 • Responsible for the training, morale, welfare and readiness of 16 U.S. Soldiers and 4 Korean Soldiers  • Worked with daily supervisor to evaluate training readiness of the employed personnel and develop a quarterly training plan  • Maintained and managed equipment valued in excess of $11 million. This included maintaining a chain of accountability to the operators of the equipment and conducting periodic inventories to identify shortages and getting those shortages filled  • Managed the maintenance plan of 14 vehicles and all of the information technology equipment to ensure that it was always ready to deploy if needed  • Responsible for deploying, operating, and maintaining enterprise level information technology equipment and various transmission equipment, to include Satellite Terminals, High Capacity Transmission Antennas, and Anti-Jam Satellite terminals.  • Plans and executes tactical operations that establish networks with varying levels of security to include: Non-Secret For Official Use Only, Secret, and CENTRIX (joint network between the U.S. and Korean Forces)  • Work with the lower level managers and provide periodic reviews on their performance as well assist the daily supervisor in their leadership training and development. Elevator Operator Bridgeport Art Center - Chicago, IL May 2014 to October 2014 • Ensure building areas are clean before and after events  • Assist with building maintenance tasks such as changing lightbulbs, restroom cleanliness, trash disposal, etc.  • Direct and assist cars with parking during events  • Assist vendors and caterers with set up during building events  • Operate manual freight elevator for guests, vendors, and caterers Education Information Technology and Management Signal Basic Officer Leadership Course - Fort Gordon, GA October 2014 to March 2015 B.S. in Electrical Engineering Illinois Institute of Technology - Chicago, IL May 2014 Skills Laptop Repair (1 year), Problem Solving and Critical Thinking, Team Development, Leadership and Communication (2 years), Detail Oriented Certifications/Licenses Drivers License Assessments Technical Support — Highly Proficient May 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/9pidnj7lwtiyayjs Critical Thinking — Highly Proficient May 2019 Using logic to solve problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/dylhjd7xv-owkwb Vehicle Maintenance — Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's knowledge of general vehicle maintenance inspections to complete minor repairs. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/lo703tspbkcbxlwy Mechanical Skills: Aptitude — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to understand and apply mechanical concepts and processes. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/mpq6tbekhwb6iosz Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.