Machine learning Engineer Machine learning Engineer Machine learning Engineer - Google Cloud Analytics Software developer with 3+ years exp. in building pipelines using AWS, Hadoop, Elastic  Search, Cassandra, Python/Scala, building production ready NLP machine learning models while  designing and implementing Cloud functions in Python using API's and deploying them on Google  Cloud Platform. Work Experience Machine learning Engineer Google Cloud June 2019 to Present Building production ready NLP machine learning models while designing and implementingCloud functions in Python using API's and deploying them on Google Cloud  Platform. Python Instructor General Assembly February 2019 to Present Responsible for the instruction of introductory and intermediate level programming, database,  and data science concepts. Specific tools and libraries taught include Python data structures like Trees, Graphs, Linked Lists), Postgres, Django, and Pandas. Georgia Tech Professional Education General Assembly February 2019 to Present Responsible for assisting students with their academic needs. This includes helping with installing software, in-class activities, homework assignments, grading homework  assignments, and providing social support to students.  " Frequently led additional review sessions to further prepare students for careers in data  science. These sessions include reviewing HackerRank solutions, teaching object oriented  programming concepts, among other things. Freelance Data Scientist EDA) of Texas-Department of Transportation (DOT) September 2018 to January 2019 Performed exploratory analysis (EDA) of Texas-Department of Transportation (DOT) data to understand the statistical properties and other high-level characteristics of the data. This  exploratory analysis also included visualization using Seaborn and Python.  ? Used lessons learned from exploratory analysis to train regression model which predicted  ? winning bid amount for the project. Analytics Software Developer IBM August 2016 to August 2018 Used Scala to analyze large datasets using high performance and distributed computing  infrastructure. This code was used to significantly reduce the processing time to verify  sensitive data (ad-data) by 90% (from 30 days to 3 days).  ? Implemented python code in Scala to handle 2-3 GB files for ingest and processing of parquet  files.  ? Monitored the performance of high performance computing infrastructure and elasticsearch to ensure smooth operation of systems through on-call monitoring using Pagerduty and Kibana  dashboard.    Teaching Experience IBM April 2016 to August 2018 IBM, North America Analytics Center Analytics Data Scientist IBM April 2016 to June 2016 Used a plethora of different APIs(including IBM Watson API, weather API, and Bluemix) to obtain a sufficient dataset to perform a solid analysis of weather-related events.  ? Leveraged numerous statistical and Analytics approaches (e.g., anomaly detection, correlation,  etc) to understand the relationships between different weather events (rain, floods,  thunderstorms, extreme heat) and power outages. Analyzed weather events and their  correlation with outages using SPSS modeler. Education Datascience Bootcamp Certificate in Data science General Assembly - Atlanta, GA April 2018 to August 2018 Bachelor of Engineering in Engineering University of Mumbai - Mumbai, Maharashtra Certification MIT Skills Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Less than 1 year), APACHE CASSANDRA (Less than 1 year), AWS (Less than 1 year), Cassandra (Less than 1 year), Databases (4 years), EC2 (2 years), elasticsearch (2 years), EMR (2 years), Git (3 years), Jira (2 years), MySQL (2 years), NoSQL (2 years), Python (4 years), SAS (Less than 1 year), Scala (2 years), software development (5 years), SQL (Less than 1 year), STRUCTURED SOFTWARE (Less than 1 year) Links https://github.com/ruchigarg-DS http://www.linkedin.com/in/ruchigarg-ds-sw-engineer