Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Credit Suisse • Over 4+ Years of Experience in Analysis, Design, and Development of various stand-alone, Client-Server and Web Based Software applications using Python, Django, AngularJS/2, Node and Express.  • Proficient in Full web development experience using Python 3.6/2.7, Django 1.7/1.8, HTML, XML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, jQuery, JSON and, Angular.js, Node.js.  • Experience in Object Oriented Analysis in developing Python Back-End framework using various design patterns.  • Proficient in building Web User Interface (UI) using HTML5, DHTML, XHTML, CSS3, JavaScript, DOM, XML, Angular JS, JSP, JSON, JSF, jQuery, jQuery UI, Easy UI, Morris JS, Flot JS and Ajax that follows with Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) and ability to apply W3C web standards and are browser compatible.  • Knowledge of web scraping technology such as Urllib2.  • Good knowledge in working with application server - Apache Server, Tomcat (6.0, 7.0, 8.0), Nginx, WebLogic (10.0, 10.3, 11g), WebSphere (7.0, 8.5).  • Experience in using new tools and technical developments such libraries- NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib, Pandas, urllib2 to drive improvements throughout entire software development lifecycle.  • Experience in using React.js, Flux, Babel+ES6, Web-Pack for SPA development.  • Involved with a data migration team in design & development of Big Data / distributed systems using /Spark / Hadoop / Spark SQL.  • Experienced in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Experience in developing Web-Applications implementing Model Template View architecture using Python and Django web application framework.  • Experienced in effective implementation of Django object-relational mapping layers (ORM) and.  • Hands on experience in developing and implementing REST and SOAP Web Services.  • Experienced in providing client form validation, building custom directives and filters using Angular.  • Strong experience setting up and working with CRUD operations inside Oracle SQL, Microsoft SQL, PostgreSQL, MySQL and MongoDB.  • Developed views and templates with python and Django view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly Website interface.  • Experienced in using Versioning tools like Git and GitHub to maintain current and historical versions of files such as source code, web pages, and documentation.  • Experience with Cloud Services like Heroku, Google App Engine, Amazon AWS, EC2, S3.  • Experienced in working with different operating systems such as Windows, Linux and UNIX.  • Working knowledge in Object Oriented Concepts (OOPS) like Collections, Multithreading and Exception Handling.  • Developed and performed test cases using Jasmine and Karma in the unit test.  • Utilized GitHub for version control and branch management.  • Familiar with bug tracking tools such as Bugzilla and Backlog.  • Experience in Agile methodologies such as Extreme Programming, Waterfall Model and TDD. Work Experience Python Developer Credit Suisse - New York, NY July 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Created python Modules for internal purpose basing on the requirement and created the entire frame work from scratch.  • Developed scripts using pandas to easily perform read/write operations to CSV files, manipulate and compare data by columns.  • Developed GUI using python and Django for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of python code using a web browser.  • Created and updated views with python and Django view controller and template language to create new functionalities to the website.  • Developed and maintained parsing modules, which read CSV, XML and JSON data from files and other REST services, processed the data.  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture.  • Perform Jenkins administration, updating plugins, setting up new projects and debugging build problems.  • Expertise in developing web-based open stack applications using Python and Django for large dataset analysis.  • Assisted in Creation of Python scripts for data access and analysis to aid in process and system monitoring, and reporting.  • Responsible in writing RDBMS databases like SQL queries to query database and queries Cen share for data and returns it as a structure on success responses and throws exception on any errors.  • Used Python IDE's such as PyCharm, sublime text for developing the code and performing unit test and SIT.  • Built development environment using bug-tracking tools like JIRA and version controls such as Git, GitLab and SVN.  • Used advanced packages like Mock, patch and Beautiful soup (b4) in extracting the Data during development phase and perform unit testing.  • Developed an embedded software data driven test automation framework in Linux/ Python. Designed test cases and authored test plans.  • Experienced in monitoring, developing and transforming data using SQL Server Integration Service (SSIS) and SQL Server Analysis Service (SSAS).  • Debugging and testing of the applications & fine-tuning performance.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team. Python Developer Dell, Inc - New York, NY April 2016 to May 2018 Responsibilities:  • Developed web applications in Django Framework's model view control (MVC) architecture.  • Thorough knowledge in various frontend tools like HTML, CSS, JavaScript, XML, jQuery, Angular JS, and AJAX. Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  • Developed custom screens using HTML5, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap and Angular.  • Involved in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Used GitHub for python source code version control, Jenkins for automating the build Docker containers.  • Experience in Container management using docker by writing docker files and set up the automated build on docker HUB.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Involved in Developing a Restful API'S service using Python Flask framework.  • Fetched twitter feeds for certain important keyword using Python-twitter library.  • Deployed the project into Heroku using GIT version control system.  • Developed a Spark job in Java which indexes data into ElasticSearch from external Hive tables which are in HDFS.  • Developed Spark, Streams and Hadoop MapReduce jobs along with components on HDFS, Hive.  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture.  • Implemented CSS3, DOM Api, DOJO and Ajax to create a dynamic and interactive experience.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Created Data tables to display customer information and add, delete, update customer records using python, MySQL and XHTML.  • Wrote scripts to Import and Export data to CSV, EXCEL formats from different environments using Python and made a Celery action using REST API call.  • Developed python web services for processing JSON and interfacing with the Data layer.  • Used python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Worked with Flask to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Built various graphs for business decision-making using python matplotlib library.  • Developed data analytic tools using python Pandas, and visualizations using Matplotlib and Bokeh.  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures for normalization and renormalization in MYSQL.  • Developed most of the application part in Linux environment and very much familiar with all its commands.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML/QML format.  • Worked on HDFS to store and access huge datasets within Hadoop.  • Used Python Library Beautiful Soup for web Scrapping. Python developer DealerTrack - South Jordan, UT December 2015 to March 2016 Responsibilities:  • Worked on coding, developing and designing application in Python using Django MVC.  • Created entire application using Python, Django, MySQL and Linux.  • For design and development of the system we used OOD concepts.  • Involved in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM process including Sprint planning, backlog grooming, Daily Stand ups, Code review, Gant Chart.  • Developed views and templates with python and Django's view controller and templating language to create.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Developed tools using python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Responsible for Design and maintenance of databases using Python. Developed Python based APIs by using Flask, SQL Alchemy and PostgreSQL.  • Created Workbooks and dashboards for analyzing statistical billing data using Tableau 9.0.  • Developed the presentation layer using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery and AJAX and Used jQuery libraries for all client-side JavaScript manipulations.  • Handled potential points of failure through error handling and communication of failure.  • Exposure on Multi-Threading factory to distribute learning process back-testing and the into various worker processes.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Exposure on Multi-Threading factory to distribute learning process back-testing and the into various worker processes.  • Developed ColdFusion Components, custom tags and modified CF Objects.  • Experience in managing MongoDB environment from availability, performance and scalability perspectives.  • Built various graphs for business decision making using Python Matplotlib library. Python developer Illumine - San Diego, CA June 2015 to November 2015 Responsibilities:  • Wrote Python routines to log into the websites and fetch data for selected options.  • Developed rich user interface using CSS, HTML, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Database is created using MySQL and wrote many queries to extract the data from the database.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework on MySQL  • Worked on HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Git, REST API, Mongo DB, IntelliJ IDEA.  • Wrote Python Script to parse XML documents and load all the data from the available database.  • Used Django, SQL Alchemy for the backend development of web-services.  • Cassandra schema is designed for the APIs.  • Worked on Tableau reports and resulting reports of the application.  • Developed and maintained various automated web tools for reducing manual effort and increasing efficiency of the Global Shipping Team.  • For the application development Django Framework is used.  • Worked on csv and excel file formats to read and write the data. Skills Django (3 years), JSON (3 years), Python (3 years), SQL (3 years), XML (3 years)