Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Client - United Health Group Minneapolis, MN ? 4+years of experience in Web/Application Development as a senior Python Developer in analytical programming using python with skills in analysis, design, development, testing and deploying software applications.  ? Experience in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC)-Waterfall, agile Process across various workflows (Requirement study, Analysis, Design, Coding, Testing, Deployment and Maintenance) in Web & Client/Server application development.  ? Hands on experience on various python libraries to speed up development (libraries used: Beautiful Soup, SciPy, Matplotlib, python - twitter, Pandas data frame, network, urllib2, MySQL, NOSQL, dB for database connectivity, JSON libraries).  ? Extensive experience in developing Single Page Applications (SPA) using JavaScript frameworks like ReactJS and Angular2/4.  ? Experience in working with various Python Integrated Development, PyCharm, Atom, Spyder, Eclipse, Visual Studio Code, Notepad++, and Sublime Text.  ? Experience in Automation scripts by using Selenium and Win Runner also used Test Director/HP ALM to manage the entire Automation testing process.  ? Experience in performing Data driven testing to validate the components displayed on the website using Selenium.  ? Experience with DNS/DHCP/WINS Standardizations and Implementation.  ? Extensive experience in system analysis, design, development and implementation of web based and client/server application using HTML, XHTML, Angular JS, Bootstrap, underscore JS, Node JS, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, JSP, JDBC, XML, XSLT, Python, Django, PHP.  ? Good experience in developing web applications implementing MVT architecture using Django, Flask, Webapp2 web application frameworks, with good understanding of Django ORM and SQL Alchemy.  ? Experience in application development using python, MongoDB Flask, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, MySQL, PostgreSQL and SQLite.  ? Made Django web-based apps for Insurance premium calculations.  ? Hands-on experience on fetching the live stream data from DB2 to HDFS using SparkStreaming and Apache Kafka.  ? Experience in real time data from various data sources through Kafka data pipelines and applied various transformations to normalize the data stored in HDFS Data Lake  ? Expertise with different tools in Hadoop Environment including Pig, Hive, HDFS, MapReduce, Sqoop, Spark, Kafka, Yarn, Oozie, and Zookeeper.  ? Deeply involved in writing complex Spark-Scala scripts, Spark context, Cassandra SQL context, used multiple API's, methods which support data frames, RDD's, Cassandra table joins and finally write/save the data frames/RDD's to Cassandra database  ? Knowledge on integrating different eco-systems like Kafka - Spark - HDFS.  ? Hands on experience with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins  ? Experience in using XML, SOAP, REST web Service for inter operable software applications.  ? Hands on experience with Build Automation tool like Maven, and version control tools such as Git, and GitHub.  ? Good experience in Shell Scripting, Oracle RDBMS, SQL Server, UNIX and Linux.  ? Hands on experience with bug tracking tools JIRA and Bugzilla.  ? Extensively used containerization and immutable infrastructure. Docker has been core to this experience along with Kubernetes.  ? Proficient in writing SQL Queries, Stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, triggers using relational databases like Oracle, MSSQL Server.  ? Expertise in OOAD Technologies developing Use Cases, Activity diagrams, Sequence Diagrams and Class Diagrams using case tools like UML/Visual Studio.  ? Good experience in working with Amazon Web Services (AWS) like AWS EC2, S3, VPC, SES, ELB, EBS, RDS, Glacier, DynamoapiDB etc.  ? Extensively used Hibernate Framework for data handling.  ? Experience in working with several python libraries including Beautiful soup, NumPy, matplotlib, SciPy, SQL Alchemy Work Experience Python Developer Client - United Health Group - Minneapolis, MN January 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  * Involved in analysis, specification, design, and implementation and testing phases of Software.  * Developed Java/J2ee applications using Hibernate, XML, Android, XSLT, and Basic ASP.net applications including using Core Java concepts like OOPS, Multithreading, Garbage Collections, and Collection etc.  * Developed entire front-end and back-end modules using python on Django Web Framework with GIT  * Successfully Migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  * Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and used agile methodology for developing application. Upgraded existing UI with HTML, CSS, jQuery and Bootstrap.  * Worked on developing web applications and implementing Model View Control (MVC) architecture using server-side applications like Django and Flask.  * Involved in working with Web-services backend development using Python (Flask, Django).  * Deployed Django web application in Apache webserver and Carpathia's cloud operations.  * Involved in developing views and templates with Python and Django view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  * Worked on Restful web services using Python REST API Framework.  * Used python decorators, generator, list comprehensions, list, JSON, cache, pandas and NumPy for building python functions for processing of data  * Involved in designing and deploying multitude applications utilizing almost all the AWS stack (Including EC2, Route53, S3, RDS, Dynamo DB, SNS, SQS, IAM) focusing on high-availability, fault tolerance, and auto-scaling in AWS Cloud Formation.  * Automated Regular AWS tasks like snapshots creation using Python scripts.  * Managed Virtual servers (Ubuntu, Linux and Windows) on AWS EC2 using Open-Source Chef server.  * Familiar with MongoDB write concern to avoid loss of data during system failures.  * Developed rich user interface using CSS, HTML, XHTML, AJAX, JavaScript and jQuery. Created a Python based GUI application For Freight Tracking and processing.  * Written Python Scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  * Experienced with Bootstrap as a mechanism to manage and organize the HTML page layout. Done scalable, database-driven web application development using a variety of frameworks: ASP.NET on C#, Flask on Python, and PHP. Rewritten existing Java, C++ application in Python.  * Actively involved in developing the methods for Create, Read, Update and Delete (CRUD) in Active Record. Experience in writing SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  * Created database using MySQL, wrote several queries to extract data from database.  * Consumed external APIs and wrote RESTful API using Django, REST Framework and Angular.Js.  * Utilized Python Libraries like Boto3, numPY for AWS. Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis. Developed efficient Angular.js for client web-based application.  * Developed automated testing framework for command-line based tests on Linux using Objected Oriented Perl and for selenium-based tests using Python.  * Created SOAP web services and SOAP handlers to store the SOAP messages. Performed pytest and unit test on them. Extracted XML code from script for testing.  * Deployed the project into Jenkins using GIT version control system.  * Created Git repository and added to GitHub project.  * Connected Flex from Backend Controller using different API services  * Implemented a Continuous Delivery pipeline with Docker, Jenkins and GitHub, Nexus, Maven and AWS AMI's.  * Deployed production site using Apache Servers with mod Python and AWS.  * Created many reports using xlrt/xlwt python packages and reportlab-2.7/3.3. Used JSON and SimpleJSON modules of python to call webservices.  * Thorough understanding of Object-Oriented Methodology, Unified Modeling Language (UML) and Design Patterns and experience on design tools.  * Wrote unit testing codes using unit test, resolving bugs and other defects using Firebug.  * Experienced in various types of testing such as Unit testing, Integration testing, User acceptance testing, Functional testing.  * Implemented SOA based web services, designed and built SOAP web service interface. Python Developer Client - Essex Bank - Richmond, VA March 2016 to January 2018 Responsibilities:    * Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  * Having experience in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in Python.  * Developed user interface using CSS, HTML, JavaScript and jQuery.  * Wrote Python modules to extract/load asset data from the MySQL source database.  * Designed and implemented a dedicated MySQL database server to drive the web apps and report on daily progress.  * Hands on experience with Spark Core, Spark SQL and Data Frames/Data Sets/RDD API.  * Used Django, the Python unit framework, for all Python applications.  * Develop consumer-based features and applications using Python and Django in test driven Development and pair-based programming.  * Involved in develop the REST Web services to expose the business methods to external services in the project.  * Worked on front end frame works like CSS, Bootstrap for development of Web application.  * Participated in requirement gathering and worked closely with the architect in designing and modeling.  * Created a Git repository and added the project to GitHub.  * Worked with View Sets in Django-REST framework for providing web services and consumed web services performing CRUD operations.  * Created Terraform scripts for EC2 instances, Elastic Load balancers and S3 buckets. Implemented Terraform to manage the AWS infrastructure and managed servers using configuration management tools like Chef and Ansible.  * Experience in tuning and debugging Spark application and using spark optimization techniques.  * Documented the problems and progress of project most accurately.  * Developed entire front-end and back-end modules using python on Django Web Framework with GIT  * Successfully Migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  * Worked on several python packages like Numpy, PySide, Scipy, wxPython, PyTables etc.  * Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  * Wrote ANSIBLE Playbooks with Python, SSH as the Wrapper to Manage Configurations of AWS Nodes and Test Playbooks on AWS instances using Python. Run Ansible Scripts to provision Dev servers.  * Experienced in working with various Python Integrated Development Environments like Net Beans, PyCharm, PyScripter, Spyder, PyStudio, PyDev and Sublime Text.    Professional Experience: Python Developer Client - Well Fargo - San Francisco, CA January 2015 to March 2016 Responsibilities:    * Analysis and Design of applications.  * Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Django and JavaScript.  * Worked with millions of database records daily, finding common errors and bad data patterns and fixing them.  * Designed and developed ETL APIs which will automate the data mining in different database sources.  * Exported/Imported data between different data sources using SQL Server Management Studio.  * Maintained program libraries, user's manuals and technical documentation.  * Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  * Wrote and executed various MySQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  * Hands-on experience in writing and reviewing requirements, architecture documents, test plans, design documents, quality analysis and audits.  * Setting up databases in AWS using RDS and configuring instance backups to S3 bucket  * Work closely with development teams to integrate their projects into the production AWS environment and ensure their ongoing support.  * Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that are main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  * Used Go Lang to create backend servers. Developed Micro services using Go language and developed corresponding test cases  * Contributed source code in Golang to developing an automation framework for AWS CFN.  * Created PDF reports using Golang and XML documents to send it to all customers at the end of month with international language support.  * Taken part in entire life cycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  * Implemented a continuous Delivery Pipeline with Jenkins and GitHub to build a new Docker container automatically  * Used Docker to implement a high-level API to provide lightweight containers that run processes isolation and worked on creation of customized Docker container images, tagged and pushed the images to the Docker repository.  * Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all of its commands.  * Refactored existing project to make it more RESTful and thread-safe.  * Developed Golang API and chat-bot using TDD to automate software deployments and rollbacks  * Designed RESTful XML web service for handling AJAX requests.  * Created project designs utilizing MVC architecture components. Education Bachelor's Skills Visual studio, Amazon web services, Application server, C++, Django, Docker, Git, Gradle, Html, Javascript, Node.js, Jenkins, Python, Flask, Matplotlib, Numpy, Pandas, Database, Sql server, Mysql, Jquery, CSS, Android, PHP, ASP