Python Data Analyst <span class="hl">Python</span> Data Analyst Business Intelligence Deveoper - Cerner Corporation Omaha, NE Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Data Analyst Kansas City, MO April 2018 to Present Practice machine learning techniques with hands-on data science projects  ? Clean, process, analyze, and build reports on either client provided or practice datasets  ? Focusing on supervised learning and text analysis Business Intelligence Developer, Business Intelligence and Operations Team Cerner Corporation - Kansas City, MO June 2017 to Present Create planning reports for Solution LifeCycle Management and Intellectual Property Leadership teams  ? Coordinate with Population Health Leadership to ensure project management data needs are met  ? Process ad hoc reporting requests from leadership, project management community, and other data users  ? Process and review project code requests to ensure they meet standards  ? Manage quarterly IP R&D Report for Development leadership  ? Design python scripts to automate refreshes and workflows Creighton University Institute for Economic Inquiry - Omaha, NE May 2016 to May 2017 Researched impact of America Invents Act on innovation  ? Mentored freshmen students and lead weekly classes  ? Contributed to weekly economics reading group, culminating in a symposium with other schools  ? Prepared data for University-wide March Madness research challenge Executive Director 3 Day Startup Creighton - Omaha, NE September 2015 to November 2015 Organized hands-on weekend entrepreneurship program for college students  ? Raised over $10,000 in sponsorships from area businesses  ? Interviewed 100 applicants, selected 40 students to participate  ? Organized involvement of mentors from entrepreneurship community  ? Event video can be found on YouTube by searching "Creighton 3 Day Startup 2015" IT Intern ConAgra Foods, Inc - Omaha, NE November 2014 to November 2015 Analyzed role changes to mitigate risks associated with increased access  ? Worked on special projects to minimize roles conflicts and revamp reporting systems  ? Set up plants and warehouses in SAP to receive, ship, and store inventory  ? Tracked and forecasted demand in hours and costs of third-party consultants Education Bachelor of Science in Business Administration in Economics and Finance Creighton University - Omaha, NE May 2017 Skills Data analysis (2 years), machine learning (1 year), Marketing analysis (Less than 1 year), python (1 year), Sql (2 years), database, Excel (5 years), Business Intelligence (2 years), Microsoft Office, Powerpoint, Agile (2 years)