Backend Python Developer Backend <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Backend Python Developer - Sentini Geosol (P) Ltd ? 2.10 years of experience with following technologies: Python  ? Expert in developing in Python; especially scalable REST API-based service(http requests, xml, json)  ? Very strong Python coding experience with solid understanding of Python internals  ? Good at Debugging and Experience in code review and testing developed objects  ? GoodExperience on OOP(object oriented programming), multi-threaded programming  ? Good Experience on Python Integration with third party applications like Kafka, Elastic Search, MySQL and MongoDB.  ? Expert in SQL Queries.  ? Experience in other programming languages like Perl, Shell, C and Java  ? Experience with following coding standars like inline comments, logging and indentation etc. while implement the Python Script  ? Experienced enterprise network management and business service management technologist with good knowledge in ScienceLogic  ? Excellent analytical skills, able to break down the problem into its constituent parts to get better understanding of issues  ? Ability to manage multiple tasks and delivery them on time with quality. Work Experience Backend Python Developer Sentini Geosol (P) Ltd April 2018 to Present provides for the sustained, efficient, and effective delivery of IT services, infrastructure, and telecommunications to enhance service delivery to the City's residents, businesses, employees, and visitors.    Responsibilities:  ? Installing and Configuring the Distributed Sciencelogic(v8.7 and v8.9) appliances like Database Server, Data Collectors and Message collectors.  ? Installing ScienceLogic All-in-one appliance(v8.4, v8.7 and v8.9)  ? Configured High availability for Data Collectors and Message Collectors in ScienceLogic(v8.9).  ? Configured High availability for Primary and Secondary Database Sever for ScienceLogic(v8.9).  ? Configured Disaster Recovery for Primary and Secondary Database server for Sciencelogic(v8.9).  ? Discovering different types of Devices in Sciencelogic(v8.9)  ? ScienceLogic pulls the data from N devices using Dynamic application where different protocol's(SSH, SNMP, PowerShell, API)are used to pull data from different devices.  Ex: Linux - SSH, SNMP  Windows - Powershell, SNMP  ? Experience on creating different types of Dynamic Applications using Python code to pull data.(Protocol used in python code like: SNMP, SSH and PowerShell Protocols).  ? Using REST API able to connect to third party applications and retrieve the data.  ? Developed the Remote Log file monitoring Snippet configuration Dynamic application for Linux and Solaris.  ? Configuring the custom dynamic application for MSSQL  ? Importing and Exporting the PowerPacks  ? Having good experience on Runbook Action and Automation policies, using python code in Action and triggers the Action based on Automation policy.    PROJECT #2.  Project Name: Alarm Matrix (Century Link)  Project Type: Implementation Project  Environment: Linux -RHEL, Ubuntu and Centoss, Solaris, Pycharm Sentini Geosol (P) Ltd - Hyderabad, ANDHRA PRADESH, IN June 2016 to Present 2016.  PROJECT #3.  Project Name: DoITT (ScienceLogic)  Project Type: Implementation Project and Support  Environment: Sciencelogic, Linux -RHEL, Ubuntu and Centoss, Solaris 5.0.9, Window  Server2008R2, 2012R2, Windows 7 Backend and Frontend Developer Sentini Geosol (P) Ltd - Monroe, LA May 2017 to October 2017 that provides communications and data services to residential, business, governmental, and wholesale customers in 37 states. A member of the S&P 500 index and the Fortune 500 the company operates as a local exchange carrier and Internet access provider in U.S., it is the third-largest telecommunications company in the United States in terms of lines served, behind AT&T and Verizon. It also provides long distance service.  Responsibilities:  ? Installing and Configuring MySQL and Django Modules in local server.  ? Used LDAP module to store the users and Groups information because SQlite3 is a light weight storage which in-builts in Django  ? Create a web application using HTML, CSS, Bootstrap and JavaScript  ? Using SQL Joins in Python Django to retrieve/update the users information from multiple tables  ? Used JavaScript modules to search field data and page navigation at bottom and no. of rows in each page  ? Built exporting options in the application like CSV, PDF, Excel formats using JavaScript modules    PROJECT #1.  Project Name: Cloud Platform  Project Type: Implementation Project  Environment: Linux -RHEL, Ubuntu and Centoss, Solaris, Pycharm Backend Python Developer Sentini Geosol (P) Ltd - Mandal, RAJASTHAN, IN November 2016 to April 2017 is the on demand availability of computer system resources, especially data storage and computing power, without direct active management by the user. The term is generally used to describe data centres available to many users over the Internet.  Clouds may be limited to a single organization (enterprise clouds) be available to many organizations (public cloud, ) or a combination of both (hybrid cloud.) The largest public cloud is Amazon AWS and Azure.    Responsibilities:  ? Create a free trial account for Azure and AWS cloud services  ? Create a VM's in Azure and EC2 instances in AWS account  ? Connect Azure account by importingazure module in python and pull the VM metrics  ? Connect to Elastic Search database and push the azure metrics to Elastic Search using python Script  ? Connect AWS by importingboto3 module in python and pull the VM metrics  ? Connect to Elastic Search database and push the AWS metrics to Elastic Search using python Script  ? Developed an rpm package to push metrics of azure to different resources like influxDB and Elastic Search.  ? Pull the Office 365 metrics and pushed to Elastic Search.    Achievements:  ? Got an appreciation from clients after completing theScienceLogic Project Phase 1  ? Secured Mandal Topper in my S.S.C. (School) level Education Bachelor of Technology in Computer Science and Engineering IIIT 2016 Board of Intermediate Education 2012 SSC Board of Secondary education 2010 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  ? Languages/Tools: Python(2.x, 3.x), Django Framework, CGI, Shell Scripting,  Perl Scripting, SNMP, Kafka, Ansible, Java and C  ? WebTechnologies: HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript  ? Cloud Technologies: Azure, AWS, Office 365  ? Databases: MySQL 5.0, Oracle, MongoDB, LDAP, Elastic Search,  InfluxDB  ? Operating Systems: Linux, Solaris, Windows servers  ? IDE Tools: PyCharm, Netbeens  ? Application/Network: Active directory, Nginx  Protocols  ? Network Management: ScienceLogic v8.4, v8.7.x, and v8.9.x  Tools