Software Engineer - Python Software Engineer - <span class="hl">Python</span> Software Engineer - Python - Snap On Work Experience Software Engineer - Python Snap On - Kenosha, WI January 2019 to Present Worked with offshore teams and internal clients to Design and analyze the requirements of in-house applications.  ? Technical experience with LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, PYTHON) architecture.  ? Developed entire backend modules using Python on Flask Web Framework.  ? Designed and developed data management system using MySQL and Flask.  ? Developed Python scripts using multithreading module.  ? Defined collections to store data in MongoDB.  ? Responsible for setting up Python REST API framework using DJANGO.  ? Developed responsive UI using HTML5/CSS3, Express Js, Bootstrap  ? Responsible for writing test plans and executing tests via automation and manually.  ? Developed database layer including Tables and Stored procedures in MYSQL.  ? Managed large datasets using Pandas data frames and SQL.  ? Developed a Front-End GUI as stand-alone Python application.  ? Worked with Marketing and Sales teams to enhance applications to suit their needs.  ? Debug application deployments on multiple environments. Python Developer / Intern College Board - Reston, VA March 2018 to December 2018 Responsibilities:  ? Develop applications that use MongoDB database, and pymongo.  ? Wrote Python code embedded with JSON and XML to produce HTTP GET request, parsing HTML data from websites.  ? Wrote Python code to simplify lists in Python with list comprehension and Python OOP. Developed REST APIs and created User Model for application.  ? Used Django Framework in developing web applications to implement the model view control architecture.  ? Developed web-based application using Django framework with python concepts.  ? Worked on server-side applications with Django using Python programming and used python libraries like Beautiful Soup, matplotlib, SciPy, NumPy and Built efficient backend for client web application.  ? Designed database Model, Views and API's using Python for interactive web-based solutions.  ? Used Python scripts to update the content in database and manipulate files. Python Developer / Intern Research Centre Imarat - IN June 2015 to December 2016 Responsibilities:  ? Developed entire backend modules using Python on Flask Web Framework.  ? Designed and developed data management system using MySQL and Flask.  ? Designed and developed web-based screens using PHP, CSS, HTML and Bootstrap.  ? Worked on Pycharm, Jupyter Notebook for development, Apache tomcat as an application server.  ? Designed and developed classes, HTML pages.  ? Involved in Software Development Life Cycle including requirements gathering, designing the application, implementing the design, testing and maintenance support.  ? Analyzed the system for requirements and design by developing Use Case, Class, Sequence and Collaboration diagrams using Rational Rose as part of UML.  ? Worked on deployment, debugging and fixing issues.  ? Reviewed Programming projects and reported weekly status to the programming managers. Education Master of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science NORTHERN ILLINOIS UNIVERSITY