Quality Specialist Quality Specialist Quality Specialist - Advocate Christ Medical Center Frankfort, IL Work Experience Quality Specialist Advocate Christ Medical Center - Oak Lawn, IL March 2019 to Present • Provide QI consultation, facilitation and data support to clinical CQI teams and non-clinical, operational teams  • Assist departments and divisions prepare annual quality improvement plans, measurement indicators and operational definitions making recommendations as appropriate  • Provide guidance and support to leaders and team members to ensure an interdisciplinary collaborative approach to CQI philosophy, methods and tools.  • Assists with completion of indicator development  • Facilitates clinical peer review process and quality improvement activities in support of the Medical Staff Quality Improvement Committees (QIC), Functional Committees and Organizational Department/Divisional Committees, as assigned  • Supports clinical information systems and preparation of clinical data reports for internal and external customers  • Assists the Director, Manager of Quality Resources and Senior Leadership in managing the infrastructure for support of Quality Improvement teams and committees Quality Specialist Mount Sinai Health System - Chicago, IL October 2017 to March 2019 Designed, developed, and implemented Quality Expectation Guidelines for Physicians and healthcare professionals on expectations for proper patient care through the concurrent review of newly admitted patients to the System Behavioral Health Department on a daily basis.  ? Use Midas+ for data collection and abstraction for core measures, peer review, patient safety indicators, ReporTrak for building reports, Profile Definitions for building Indicator Definitions and Indicator Definition Profiles, Datavision for printing reports, and other quality indicators.  ? Use Meditech Live v.5.67 for abstractions and for abstracting data and reports, such as System Behavioral Health, System Obstetrics, System NICU, System Medicine, and System Family Medicine departments, to ensure that all patients receive standard procedures performed by Physicians and healthcare professionals correctly.  ? Trained a team of seven colleagues on the process of completing Ongoing professional Practice Evaluations (OPPE) and Focused Professional Practice Evaluation (FPPE).  ? Completely a monthly Dashboard for the System Behavioral Health, System Obstetrics, System NICU, System Medicine, and System Family Medicine departments to present and lead meetings with Physicians and Executives to review the Dashboards and explain the data and answer any questions about the Dashboards.  ? Provides support to clinical department quality committees by setting up and leading meetings with Physicians and Executives to review fallouts and review the OFI process, as well as building a Profile Definition for collecting fallouts and clinical errors and send that information to the Chairs of each department for fallout review.  ? Prepare a daily Length of Stay report for observation patients and inpatients, and send it directly to Executives, Physicians, the CEO, CFO, COO, and a team of other professionals. HTML Developer Collegis Education - Oak Brook, IL April 2017 to June 2017 Content management of LMS system for Rasmussen College courses for class conversions from the LMS System to Rasmussen College.  ? Used HTML, CSS, and JavaScript with Dreamweaver to ensure Blackboard/Quality Assurance site is functional.  ? Building online courses using Course Management System Blackboard.  ? Produced graphics and animations using Photoshop and Adobe Premier for online courses.  ? Worked with Instructional Designers to build effective online content.  ? Developed innovative solutions to course production challenges. Jr. PHP Web Developer International Code Council - Country Club Hills, IL October 2016 to February 2017 Use PHP, HTML/CSS/Javascript to write clean, well-designed code to update the company website.  ? Use Symfony3 framework with PHP Storm to write code.  ? Use WordPress to create and management website and plug-ins to improve functionality and UI of website.  ? QA responsibilities to test and render code to ensure proper functionality within the website.  ? Created PHP, Twig, Bootstrap, CSS, JS, XML, YML, HTML, and JSON files and code to update website.  ? Used Git version control to send work to ICC Premium Access Github repository for approval for tasks completed.  ? Used XAMPP to set up local environment to test code. Python Consultant Dr. Scott Collis - Lemont, IL April 2016 to August 2016 * Work conducted at Argonne National Laboratory available on personal GitHub: https://github.com/matouk1114/learning    ? Worked directly under Atmospheric Scientist Dr. Scott Collis as a Python Specialist.  ? Used Python and Py-ART to download scientific data and plot for Laboratory use.  ? Worked independently to master Python programming and utilize the language to retrieve and analyze atmospheric data.  ? Plotted all retrieved data into Python UNIX Shell.  ? Performed data clean-up, analysis and management of radar data, plotting the data into a radar grid using Jupyter Notebook.  ? Plotted and read tabular data into Python and created graphs and plots with radar data.  ? Read NEXRAD and LES data using matplotlib and X-Array modules in Python. President and Founder Total Wellness Medical and Foot Care Services - Chicago, IL June 2013 to July 2015 Managed staff and delegated daily duties to doctors and medical staff, including: patient scheduling, ordering medical supplies, and ensuring patient satisfaction.  ? Utilized Microsoft Access and Practice Fusion for retrieving and analyzing patient information, including: insurance, medical, and personal information for billing purposes.  ? Utilized Microsoft Excel for organizing patient scheduling, new patient forms, patient insurance information, date of birth, address, and other patient information.  ? Created company website using www.GoDaddy.com and maintained website for company. Education Certification Northwestern University - Evanston, IL October 2013 to March 2014 Master of Business Administration in Health Sciences Keller Graduate School of Management - Tinley Park, IL October 2011 to May 2013 Bachelor of Arts in Political Science in Political Science University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign - Urbana, IL August 2008 to June 2010 Skills ANDROID STUDIO, C#, C++, Git, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, BOOTSTRAP, NODE.JS, REACTJS, MS PROJECT, PHP, PYTHON, VISUAL BASIC, XML, CSS, DREAMWEAVER, MS ACCESS, MYSQL, MEDITECH, ANDROID