SQL data analyst\ Python Developer SQL data analyst\<span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer Los Angeles, CA • Overall 3+ years of involvement in Development and Implementation of different kind of web base applications  utilizing Python, Java and PHP.  • Hold deeper understanding of Django, with countable experience with SpringMVC Framework.  • Have work experience with various Python Integrated Development Environments like PyCharm, Eclipse.  • Ability to perform query using Django and Hibernate ORM  • Have worked with databases like MongoDB, PostgreSQL and MySQL.  • Build User Interface utilizing HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, JSON, Bootstrap and AJAX  • Clear Understanding and countable experience of OOP concepts like Creating Classes, Inheritance, Constructors,  Polymorphism, Encapsulation, Overloading and Overriding.  • Well familiar with the MVC (Model View Controller) code structure of different framework like Django, Spring, ..etc  • Used Python packages like Numpy, Pandas, Pickle etc.  • Deployed several web base applications on AWS Services and Heroku.  • Effectively Participated in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle, followed Agile (SCRUM) management  model.  • Executed MongoDB database queries from Django using Mongo Engine ORM.  • Experience in working with different operating systems like LINUX and WINDOWS.  • Experience in handling REST Web Services  • Have Experience in List Comprehensions and python inbuilt functions such as Map, Filter and Lambda.  • Experience in using various version control systems like GitHub and GitLab  • Excellent analytical and problem-solving skills, ability to work on own besides being a valuable and contributing  team player Work Experience SQL data analyst\ Python Developer Tax Credit Co - Los Angeles, CA April 2018 to Present Project Description:  The project is to automate the task of file formatting and modifying file in companies OIS format. Module that could  accept any type of file and convert it to a pipe delimited file.  Responsibilities:  • Providing daily reports to the Manager. Entire development of the module is single handily developed by me.  Utilized Agile Methodology and SCRUM Process.  • Implemented code in Python to retrieve and manipulate data.  • Worked with many python libraries like xlrd, numpy, pandas, csv and many more.  • Prepared test cases for entire Script.  • Performed troubleshooting and many Python bug fixes for the project  • Module Uses Oracle SQL as Database  • Used Github for version control.  Environment: - Python, Oracle SQL, GitHub. Python Developer TripCam - Santa Monica, CA July 2017 to February 2018 Project Description:  The project was to build the modules for analyzing data, presenting it with better visuals and graphical presentation for making better and faster strategy for marketing, sales and Development teams to direct proper workflow. In  other words our team was responsible for creating administrative modules for every department of the company.  Responsibilities:  • Providing daily reports to the Development Manager and have strongly participate in the development phase.  Used Agile Methodology and SCRUM Process.  • Participated in Daily Stand-up meetings and provided status on work progress.  • Implemented code in Python to retrieve and manipulate data in the controller.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse CSV documents and load the data in MongoDB.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Implemented and executed code to perform CRUD operations on MongoDB using Mongo Engine module.  • Designed and developed the UI for the website with HTML, CSS, Java Script and Bootstrap.  • Used JQuery and Ajax calls for transmitting data object between frontend and controllers.  • Also used Bootstrap as a mechanism to manage and organize the HTML page layout.  • Re-engineered various modules for implementing changes and created efficient system.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the applications that were a main  source of data for the customers.  • Maintained program libraries, user's manuals and technical documentation.  • Used GitLab for version control.  Environment: - Python, Django, MongoDB, Linux, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, GitLab. Python Developer Intern EZADTV - Santa Monica, CA May 2016 to December 2016 Project Description:  The project was to develop an application for asset management team that generates reports of the underlying  advertisement equipment like Monitors, Tablet and Television. I worked parallel with sales team for understanding  client needs and plan more interesting strategies to boost our clients business.  Responsibilities:  • Build Python controllers for analyzing advertising patterns and business growth.  • Maintain a solid understanding of MySQL database.  • Develop scalable applications and to effectively manage technology -tradeoffs and risks.  • Design database structures and develop/tune data access utilizing SQL Server by creating Django based ORM.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects. Also involved in validating and processing of files.  • Closely analyzed the database tables using sequel pro tool of MySQL to resolve integrity issues.  • Used jQuery and AJAX calls for transmitting data objects between front end and controllers.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, CSS, Bootstrap and JavaScript.  • Collaborate with key stakeholders and project managers to design, develop, integrate, test, document and implement the system.  • Ensured quality by versioning with GitHub.  Environment: - Python, Django, MySQL, Windows, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Github. Java Developer Innoventa - Ahmedabad, Gujarat March 2014 to February 2015 Project Description:  Worked on multiple projects as a Fullstack Developer, Start from required gathering to testing. Build several static and dynamic Websites depending on the customer requirements.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in entire lifecycle of the project including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and implementation and support.  • Bulid Web application using Java with SpringMVC and Hibernate Framework.  • Involved in creating testing scripts for working along with the newly written code.  • Worked with RESTFUL API's  • Worked on MYSQL and PostgreSQL depending on project requirement.  • Fix the bugs and improve the quality of the code.  • Wrote views to interact with the UI technologies and with models.  • Implemented HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap to make UI screens easily understandable by the users.  • Ensured quality by versioning with GITLAB.  Environment: - Java, MYSQL, PostgreSQL, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, GITLAB PHP Intern Developer GTU - Gujarat, IN October 2013 to March 2014 Project Description:  The project was to develop a well categorized video surfing site for uploading educational videos. Aim was reaching out to its millions of student with a helping hand, by educating them on many difficult technological subjects. This  project was a vision of Former Chief Minister of Gujarat and Current Prime Minister of INDIA Mr. Narendra  Modi.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in entire lifecycle of the project including Design, Development, Testing, implementation and support.  • Bulid Web application using PHP with Custom Framework.  • Involved in creating Controllers and SQL Queries for Internal Data flow.  • Worked with RESTFUL API's from YouTube.  • Worked on MYSQL Database  • Fix the bugs and improve the quality of the code.  • Ensured quality by versioning with GITLAB.  Environment: - PHP, MYSQL, GITLAB Education Master of Science in Computer Science California State University Los Angeles - Los Angeles, CA April 2015 to May 2017 Bachelors of Science in Computer Science Gujarat Technological University September 2010 to June 2014 Skills BOOTSTRAP (2 years), CSS (2 years), HTML (2 years), JAVASCRIPT (2 years), MYSQL (1 year), Python (2 years), Java (2 years), php (2 years) Links https://github.com/erzubin Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Operating Systems MS Windows, Ubuntu  Methodologies Agile (SCRUM)  Web technologies HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX.  Languages Python, C, Java, PHP  Web Frameworks DJANGO, Spring, Hibernate  Database MYSQL, PostgreSQL, MongoDB, Oracle SQL  Configuration Management GitHub, GitLab