Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Akeneo Boston, MA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Akeneo - Boston, MA January 2015 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website.  ? Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript  ? Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  ? Worked closely with designer. Converted Photoshop images into XHTML/CSS, complex Flash integration.  ? Consolidated many previous websites onto one dedicated RHEL hosts.  ? Maintenances PHP/MySQL (primarily Joomla), Classic ASP/MSSQL. Communicating and interfacing with previous developers on a regular basis.  ? Created and helped deploy advertisements with Advert Serve.  ? Hands on working with Python 2.7.10, Git  ? Started developing with Django 0.96 and currently developing with Django 1.0  ? Deployed production site using Apache 2.0 with mod_ python  ? Upgraded Python 2.3 to Python 2.5 on a RHEL 4 server, this required recompiling mod_ python to use Python 2.5. This upgrade was necessary because in lined models with UTF-8 characters were causing unexpected errors. Submitted a ticket to the Django project documenting this incompatibility with Python 2.3.  ? Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  ? Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  ? Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  ? Use GIT to track software developmen  ? Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  ? Worked extensively with Bootstrap, Java script, and jQuery to optimize the user experience.  ? Scalable, database-driven web application development using a variety of frameworks: ASP.NET on C#, Flask on Python, and PHP.  ? Created unit test/regression test framework for working/new code  ? Using Subversion control tool to coordinate team-development.  ? Built development environment with JIRA.  ? Implemented multiple high performance MongoDB replica sets on EC2 with robust reliability  ? Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  ? Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  ? Involved in entire lifecycle of the project including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and implementation and support.    Environment: Python 2.7, Python 2.7, Django, HTML5/CSS, MS SQL Server 2013, MySQL, Java script, Eclipse, Linux, Shell Scripting, JQuery, GitHub, Angular.JS, Jira Python Developer Bodkin Design & Engineering LLC - Newton Upper Falls, MA March 2013 to December 2014 Responsibilities:    ? Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  ? Used Purify, GDB and DBX for debugging/crash logs which helped in performance enhancement and optimization.  ? Used various Design Patterns in provisioning the networks.  ? Designed and implemented the orders for VNI, VHO, VSO, ONI etc., and their controllers as demanded for the applications design.  ? Responsible for creation of Database, Business Logic to display the records dynamically on template based on query, providing user permission to access particular features of the site.  ? Used data structures like directories, tuples, object oriented class based inheritance features for making complex algorithms of networks  ? Did Content Management through front end, live search and normal search features.  ? Created Forms, views, models using Django.  ? Used the Python's modules numpy, matpoltlib etc for generating complex graphical data, creation of histograms etc.  ? Using Django evolution and manual SQL modifications was able to modify Django models while retaining all data, while site was in production mode.  ? Build high-performance streaming REST server in Flask  ? Used Selenium Library to write fully functioning test automation process that allowed the simulation of submitting different we requests from multiple browser to web application.  ? Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  ? Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  ? Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile)  ? Used JQuery for all client side Java script manipulation.  ? Worked very closely with designer, tightly integrating Flash into the CMS with the use of Flashvars stored in the Django models. Also created XML with Django to be used by the Flash.  ? Created Python/MySQL back-end for data entry from Flash. I had to assist the Flash developer send the correct data via query strings.  ? Used Wire shark, live http headers, and Fiddler2 debugging proxy to debug the Flash object and help the developer create a functional component. The webpages for displaying the data uses AJAX to sort and display the data. The page also outputs data to .csv for viewing in Microsoft Excel    Environment: XML Schemas, XML, JSF, Java Script, CSS, HTML, Angular JS, Linux, Shell Scripting, Python 2.7, Java Script, JQuery, JSON, XML, MySQL Education Master's in IT Massachusetts Institute of Technology - Cambridge, MA Skills CSS (4 years), Database (4 years), Django (4 years), HTML (4 years), Java (4 years) Additional Information Technical Skills  Programming Languages Python with django, Java, C, SQL, Shell Scripting  Database Development Technologies: SQL, PL/SQL. Software/Tools: MySQL, PostgreSQL.  Web Design Technologies/Tools Technologies: HTML 4/5, DHTML, JavaScript, JQuery, JSON, XML, CSS 3    Software/Tools: Adobe Dreamweaver, Adobe Photoshop.  Technologies: XML, SOAP, Borg Environment, REST, Stubby Calls.  Version Control GIT, Mercury    Operating Systems Microsoft Windows, UNIX, Linux  SDLC Agile, Test-Driven, Iterative Model