PYTHON DEVELOPER <span class="hl">PYTHON</span> <span class="hl">DEVELOPER</span> PYTHON DEVELOPER - Hamilton Bank • Over 4 years of IT experience in designing, developing, testing and implementing of various stand-alone and client-server architecture-based enterprise application software in Python, Java.  • Experienced in developing MVT/MVC architecture-based applications using Django, Flask, Web2py frameworks.  • Design and Developed Web Services, RESTful API's for Mobile Apps using Python Django-REST and Flask Frameworks on Nginx and Uwsgi servers.  • Experience in using new tools and technical developments such libraries- Beautiful Soup, NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib, Pickle, PySide, Pandas Dataframe, urllib2 to drive improvements throughout entire software development lifecycle.  • Experienced in working with various Python Integrated Development Environments like Pycharm, PyScripter, Spyder and Sublime Text.  • Expert with JavaScript, jQuery, Ajax and HTML/CSS based UI development and worked on AngularJS, jQuery and Bootstrap, Responsive Design for front-end framework.  • Strong Expertise in MySQL, Postgres and NO-SQL databases like Mongo DB and Couch DB and have experienced with databases using ORMs/DOMs for integrating with MySQL, Postgres, MongoDB.  • Experience in writing Subqueries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors and functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL databases.  • Expert at parsing, scripting, logging, migrating data and debugging. And have experience with Cloud Services like Heroku, Google App Engine, Amazon AWS, EC2, S3.  • Hands on experience deploying projects in production and staging environment and also having sound experience in Core Java and Object-Oriented Programming using concepts like Multi-  • Experience working with version control tools such as GitHub, SVN. Bit bucket.and do familiar with development practices such as code reviews, unit testing and experience in designing the automation frameworks.  • Mentored other developers in engineering, installation, configuration, testing and administration of Linux servers and coherent with shell scripting.  • Experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts. Work Experience PYTHON DEVELOPER Hamilton Bank September 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Used Python/Django MVC framework to design and develop the application.  • Performed Unit testing, Integration Testing and generating of test cases for web applications using Junit and Python Unit test framework Hudson/Jenkins in the builds triggered by each push to GIT.  • Creating Python scripts to automate daily networking tasks (Ex. auto Config generation, retrieving information from network devices, parsing data, etc.) - including a custom Fortigate firewall Config generator (which included multi-threaded functionality to generate Configs for multiple firewalls at once).  • Working as an application developer experienced with controllers, views and models in Django.  • Designed front end and backend of the application using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Develop consumer-based features and applications using Python and Django in test driven Development and pair-based programming.  • Created Terraform scripts for EC2 instances, Elastic Load balancers and S3 buckets. Implemented Terraform to manage the AWS infrastructure and managed servers using configuration management tools like Chef and Ansible.  • Used Amazon EC2 command line interface along with Bash/ Python to automate repetitive work.  • Wrote ANSIBLE Playbooks with Python, SSH as the Wrapper to Manage Configurations of AWS Nodes and Test Playbooks on AWS instances using Python. Run Ansible Scripts to provision Dev servers.  • Worked on frontend frameworks like CSS Bootstrap for development of Web application and worked in MySQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization and denormalization.  • Built application logic using Python 2.7. and used Django APIs for database access.  • Used Python to extract weekly hotel availability information from CSV files.  • Developed Python batch processors to consume and produce various feeds.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Worked with Python OO Design code for manufacturing quality, monitoring, logging, and debugging code optimization.  • Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Used Python based GUI components for the front-end functionality such as selection criteria. Connected continuous integration system with GIT version control repository and continually build as the check-in's come from the developer.  • Worked with View Sets in Django-REST framework for providing web services and consumed web services performing CRUD operations.  • Wrote ANSIBLE Playbooks with Python, SSH as the Wrapper to Manage Configurations of AWS Nodes and Test Playbooks on AWS instances using Python. Run Ansible Scripts to provision Dev servers.  • Used Flask framework for application development.  • Designed and implemented a dedicated MYSQL database server to drive the webapps and report on daily progress.  • Developed python Script for moving files from drop box to Amazon server.  • Consumed external APIs and wrote RESTful API using Django REST Framework and AngularJs.  • Developed views and templates with python and Django view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly Website interface.  • Developed internal project in Flask to generate report from google analytics on daily, monthly and weekly basis.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Used Python Library Beautiful Soup 4 for Web Scraping to extract data for building graphs Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all its commands. PYTHON DEVELOPER Welspun ltd September 2013 to December 2015 Responsibilities: Skills Ajax (Less than 1 year), Bootstrap (Less than 1 year), Css (Less than 1 year), Html (Less than 1 year), Html5 (Less than 1 year), Java. (Less than 1 year), Javascript. (Less than 1 year), jquery (Less than 1 year), Json (Less than 1 year), Sql (Less than 1 year), Xml (Less than 1 year) Additional Information SKILLS    • Angular, Bootstrap, CSS, JavaScript, JSON, jQuery, Java, HTML5, React, SQL, XML, Node JS  • Experienced CSS Knowledge, CSS Animations, Flex Box layout model  • Good Communicator, being able to express ideas clearly and concisely  • Ability to learn custom programming languages with ease.  • Worked closely with a multi-disciplinary team to create intuitive internal websites using JavaScript,  CSS, HTML, Ajax, JQuery