Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Oakland, CA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory - Berkeley, CA January 2013 to June 2016 • Involved in the Complete Software development life cycle to develop the application.  • Involved in developing a web-application that automatically fetches, aggregates, normalizes, and serializes data from American online retailers.   • Involved in developing web app features that generate and displays product-level price histories, attribute extraction, filtering, and data cleaning.   • Used regular expressions extensively for cleaning, matching and combining appliances data that came from different data sources.  • Improved code reuse and performance by making effective use of various design patterns and refactoring code base.   • Worked in debugging and troubleshooting programming related issues.   • Used Git and Jira for code submissions and task management.   • Involved in managing code versioning and reviewing with Bit Bucket.   • Followed test driven approach for developing the application and implemented the unit tests using Python Unit test framework.  • Developed MongoDB NoSQL database that stores huge water heaters test data.  • Wrote python module used for loading data into MongoDB database. Python Developer Independent Contractor - Berkeley, CA May 2012 to December 2012 • Developed a standalone software for cross referencing sales product data (such as NPD) against government agencies data (such as FTC, CEC, CCMS and Energy Star).  • Wrote python modules that clean and match appliances data that came from different data sources.  • Developed a standalone software for using python's GUI Application wxPython.  • Wrote a software that to gathers different types of electric bulb retail data automatically from the website of Home Depot.   • wrote Python module that combines washing machine sales data that are listed twice or more in NPD sales data files. Education Bachelor's of Science in Physics / Computer Science University of Asmara - Asmara Skills Python (5 years), Django (4 years), PostgresSQL (4 years), MySQL (2 years), HTML 5 (2 years), CSS3 (2 years), Git (4 years), MongoDB (1 year)