Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - American Express Phoenix, AZ • Around 3+ years of Professional Python development experience using Python, Django framework.  • Involved in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Well versed in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) management models namely Waterfall and Agile (SCRUM) models.  • Built the web application by using Python, Django, Flask, Jinja, WSGI and Fabric.  • Experienced in Authentication management and Django Session which were used to create numerous Django applications.  • Experienced in object oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python.  • Build Python Django forms for recording of data for online users and writing test cases using PyTest.  • Applied HTML, HTML5, XML, CSS3, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Bootstrap and AJAX to deliver cutting-edge user interfaces and components.  • Hands-on experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL, PostgreSQL, Oracle 10g and MongoDB.  • Experienced in following PEP8 coding standards across various projects.  • Experience in Apache, Tomcat.  • Installed and configured GIT and was responsible to work for commit, resolve conflict and merge, fetching code.  • Excellent skills in problem solving, analysis, communication and documentation. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer American Express - Phoenix, AZ September 2016 to Present Project Description:  The project is to build the self-service business term search engine for the next generation data management so that it can be used for wide variety of cross-platforms within the organization.    Responsibilities:  * Providing daily reports to the Development Manager and participate in both the design phase and the development phase. Utilized Agile Methodology and SCRUM Process.  * Participated in Daily Stand-up meetings and provided status on work progress.  * Wrote Backend python code to interact with Active directory using LDAP Module for the Authentication.  * Implemented code to create dynamic Excel reports for thousands of metadata using xlswriter.  * Implemented code in Python to retrieve and manipulate data.  * Wrote Python scripts to parse JSON documents and load the data in MongoDB.  * Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  * Implemented and executed code to perform CRUD operations on MongoDB using Pymongo module.  * Designed and developed the UI for the website with HTML5, CSS3, Java Script and Bootstrap.  * Used JQuery and Ajax calls for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  * Also used Bootstrap as a mechanism to manage and organize the HTML page layout.  * End to end testing of the applications.  * Re-engineered various modules for implementing changes and created efficient system.  * Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the applications that were a main source of data for the customers.  * Build development environment with Rally.  * Maintained program libraries, user's manuals and technical documentation.  * Used Bitbucket for version control.    Environment: - Python 2.7, Django 1.10, Xlswriter, MongoDB, Elasticsearch, Linux, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, Rally, Bitbucket. Python Developer Accunity Services - Mumbai, Maharashtra October 2012 to August 2014 Project Description:  The project is to develop an application for asset management team that generates reports of the underlying Power's equipment like transformers, relay etc. concerning their maintenance, replacement and failure metrics as well as generate a dashboard representation showing their performance index.    Responsibilities:  * Actively involved in requirement gathering and analysis period of the project in recording the business requirements by leading workshops/gatherings with different business clients.  * Working cross-functionally to ensure proper functionality and delivery.  * Composed python scripts to parse XML and JSON reports and load the information in database.  * Maintain a solid understanding of MySQL database.  * Implemented Cross Site Scripting, CSRF and SQL injection for security and data protection.  * Develop scalable applications and to effectively manage technology -tradeoffs and risks.  * Design database structures and develop/tune data access utilizing SQL Server by creating Django based ORM.  * Used Django Database API's to access database objects. Also involved in validating and processing of files.  * Handled RESTful services with the help of python library URLLIBS.  * Closely analyzed the database tables using sequel pro tool of MySQL to resolve integrity issues.  * Used jQuery and AJAX calls for transmitting JSON data objects between front end and controllers.  * Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, CSS, Bootstrap and JavaScript.  * Deployed the entire code using Linux parameters of the virtual machines for UAT phase.  * Collaborate with key stakeholders and project managers to design, develop, integrate, test, document and implement the system.  * Tracking defects and resolving bugs using JIRA.  * Ensured quality by versioning with GIT.    Environment: - Python 2.7, Django 1.9, MySQL, Linux, Shell Scripting, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JIRA, GIT. Education Masters of Science in Computer & Electrical Engineering California State University - Los Angeles, CA December 2015 Bachelors of Engineering in Electronics Engineering University of Mumbai - Mumbai, Maharashtra May 2012 Skills Ajax (3 years), Bootstrap. (3 years), Django (3 years), HTML (3 years), Java Script (3 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Operating Systems UNIX, Red Hat Linux, MS Windows and Mac OS.  Methodologies Agile, Waterfall, Hybrid (Agile-Waterfall).  Web technologies JSON, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX.  Languages/ Frameworks Python, DJANGO, FLASK.  Databases MongoDB, MySQL, PostgreSQL, SqlAlchemy.  Configuration Management Bitbucket, GitHub.  Tools HP Quality Center, JIRA, Rally.    Personal Skills    • Good listening skills, Good Problem Solving Techniques, Excellent communication skills, Effective convincing power, Hard Working, Sincere and Honest.