PYTHON DEVELOPER <span class="hl">PYTHON</span> <span class="hl">DEVELOPER</span> Python developer Denton, TX Work Experience PYTHON DEVELOPER September 2018 to Present Cathay bank  Responsibilities:    • Designed database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python to build an interactive web-based application.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, to build an interactive web-based solution.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture and developed frontend and backend modules using Python on Django including Tasty Pie Web Framework using Git.  • Collect data that introspects the performance of query and update operations on a MongoDB instance and recorded the online users' data using Python Django forms and implemented test case using Pytest  • Developed Ruby/ Python scripts to monitor health of Mongo databases and perform ad-hoc backups using Mongo dump and Mongo restore.  • Worked in DevOps group running Jenkins in a Docker container with EC2 slaves in Amazon AWS cloud configuration. Also gained familiarity with supporting technologies like kubernetes and Mesos.  • Used regular expression for faster search results in combination with Angular2 built-in and custom pipes.  • Develop consumer-based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML, Behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pair-based programming.  • Used Test driven approach for developing the application and Implemented the unit tests using Python Unit test framework and Development of Isomorphic ReactJS and Redux driven API client applications.  • Developed backend web services using Node.js and stored dependencies using Node Package Manager (NPM).  • Used jQuery and AJAX calls for transmitting JSON data objects between front end and controllers and Utilized continuous integration and automated deployments with Jenkins, Ansible and Docker.  • Used Amazon Elastic Beanstalk with Amazon EC2 to deploy project into AWS and good experience with AWS storage services (S3).  • Worked on server-side applications with Django using Python programming and used python libraries like Beautiful Soup, matplotlib, SciPy, NumPy and Built efficient Node.js backend for client web application  • Experience to build CI/CD Pipeline to automate the code release process using Integration tools like Git/SVN, GitHub, Jenkins.  • Developed tools to automate some base tasks using Python, Shell scripting and XML. Used PyQt to implement GUI for the user to create, modify and view reports based on client data.  • Experience in setting up CI/CD pipeline integrating various tools with Jenkins to build and run Terraform jobs to create infrastructure in AWS.  • Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, Oracle DB, PostgreSQL, and VMWare API calls.  • Involved in development of Python based Web Services using REST for sending and getting data from the external interface in the JSON format and perform analysis using Django, PostgreSQL.  • Designed automation scripts to back up the old records by using Mongo DB export command and transferred the files into backup machine with the help of ftplib.  • Followed AGILE development methodology to develop the application and developed Golang API and chat-bot using TDD to automate software deployments and rollbacks  • Used Test driven approach (TDD) for developing services required for the application and managed datasets using Panda data frames and MYSQL. Queried the database queries using Python.  • Developed the application using the Test-Driven methodology and designed the unit tests using Python Unit test framework.  • Working as an application developer experienced with controllers, views and models in Django. Designed front end and backend of the application using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Develop consumer-based features and applications using Python and Django in test driven Development and pair-based programming.  • Good experience in developing web applications and implementing Model View Control (MVC) architecture using server-side applications like Django and Flask.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Java, Bootstrap, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Created interactive data charts on web application using High charts JavaScript library with data coming from Apache Cassandra.  • Installed, configured and managed the ELK (Elastic Search, Log Facilitated Scrum ceremonies like Sprint planning, retrospectives, Daily stand-ups, etc. Stash and Kibana) for Log management within EC2/ Elastic Load Balancer (ELB) for Elastic search  • Created Terraform scripts for EC2 instances, Elastic Load balancers and S3 buckets. Implemented Terraform to manage the AWS infrastructure and managed servers using configuration management tools like Chef and Ansible.  • Wrote ANSIBLE Playbooks with Python, SSH as the Wrapper to Manage Configurations of AWS Nodes and Test Playbooks on AWS instances using Python. Run Ansible Scripts to provision Dev servers.  • Worked on frontend frameworks like CSS Bootstrap for development of Web application. Worked in MySQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization and denormalization.  • Used Python based GUI components for the front-end functionality such as selection criteria. Connected continuous integration system with GIT version control repository and continually build as the check-in's come from the developer.  • Experience in all areas of Jenkins like Plugin Management, Securing and scaling Jenkins, integrating Code Analysis, Performance issues, Analytics and Test Phases to complete the CI/CD pipelines within Jenkins  • Worked with View Sets in Django-REST framework for providing web services and consumed web services performing CRUD operations.  • Wrote ANSIBLE Playbooks with Python, SSH as the Wrapper to Manage Configurations of AWS Nodes and Test Playbooks on AWS instances using Python. Run Ansible Scripts to provision Dev servers.  • Used Flask framework for application development. Designed and implemented a dedicated MYSQL database server to drive the webapps and report on daily progress.  • Developed python Script for moving files from drop box to Amazon server. Consumed external APIs and wrote RESTful API using Django REST Framework and Angular.js.  • Developed views and templates with python and Django view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly Website interface.  • Developed internal project in Flask to generate report from google analytics on daily, monthly and weekly basis.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Used Python Library Beautiful Soup for Web Scraping to extract data for building graphs • Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all its commands.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Developed Python based API (RESTful Web Services) to track the events and perform analysis using Django.  • Supported/maintained client website within the DJANGO CMS system for various website needs. Performed dynamic UI designing with HTML5, CSS3, less, Bootstrap, JSON and AJAX.  • Created Python and Bash scripts to monitor & increase efficiency of retail management application system and operations. python developer Welspun ltd September 2012 to December 2016 RESPONSIBILITIES:    • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture.  • Developed frontend and backend modules using Python on Django including Tasty Pie Web Framework using Git.  • Collect data that introspect the performance of query and update operations on a MongoDB instance.  • Developed Ruby/ Python scripts to monitor health of Mongo databases and perform ad-hoc backups using Mongo dump and Mongo restore.  • Worked in DevOps group running Jenkins in a Docker container with EC2 slaves in Amazon AWS cloud configuration. Also gained familiarity with supporting technologies like kubernetes and Mesos.  • Develop consumer-based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML, Behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pair-based programming.  • Used Test driven approach for developing the application and Implemented the unit tests using Python Unit test framework and Development of Isomorphic ReactJS and Redux driven API client applications.  • Developed backend web services using Node.js and stored dependencies using Node Package Manager (NPM).  • Worked on Python to place data into JSON files for testing Django Websites. Explains eBay VP of engineering Japjit Tulsi, Machine learning engineers must be able to straddle the line between knowing the mathematics and coding the mathematics.  • Experience working in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python/PHP) Architecture.  • Developed web applications in Django Framework's model view control (MVC) architecture. Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Designed and Developed REST Webservices to interact with various business sectors and used SOAP protocol for webservices communication.  • Implemented Docker containers to create images of the applications and dynamically provision slaves to Jenkins CI/CD pipelines.  • Installed SWM (CI/CD) for building automation deployments for upgrades and installs which was carried out by Jenkins  • Used Ansible playbooks to setup Continuous Delivery pipeline. This primarily consists of a Jenkins and Sonar server, the infrastructure to run these packages and various supporting software components such as Maven, etc.  • Created a Python/Django based web application for data processing using MySQL as database, and HTML/CSS/JavaScript for frontend development and D3 JavaScript for Data Visualization.  • Develop consumer-based features and applications using Python and Django in test driven Development and pair-based programming.  • Developed web applications and implementing Model View Control (MVC) architecture using server-side applications like Django and Flask. Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Java, Bootstrap, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Created interactive data charts on web application using High charts JavaScript library with data coming from Apache Cassandra. Created Terraform scripts for EC2 instances, Elastic Load balancers and S3 buckets. Implemented Terraform to manage the AWS infrastructure and managed servers using configuration management tools like Chef and Ansible.  • Wrote ANSIBLE Playbooks with Python, SSH as the Wrapper to Manage Configurations of AWS Nodes and Test Playbooks on AWS instances using Python. Run Ansible Scripts to provision Dev servers.  • Worked on frontend frameworks like CSS Bootstrap for development of Web application. Worked in MySQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization and denormalization.  • Used Python based GUI components for the front-end functionality such as selection criteria. Connected continuous integration system with GIT version control repository and continually build as the check-in's come from the developer.  • Worked with View Sets in Django-REST framework for providing web services and consumed web services performing CRUD operations. Wrote ANSIBLE Playbooks with Python, SSH as the Wrapper to Manage Configurations of AWS Nodes and Test Playbooks on AWS instances using Python. Run Ansible Scripts to provision Dev servers.  • Used Flask framework for application development. Designed and implemented a dedicated MYSQL database server to drive the web apps and report on daily progress.  • Developed python Script for moving files from drop box to Amazon server. Consumed external APIs and wrote RESTful API using Django REST Framework and Angular. Developed views and templates with python and Django view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly Website interface.  • Developed internal project in Flask to generate report from google analytics on daily, monthly and weekly basis. Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Used Python Library Beautiful Soup 4 for Web Scraping to extract data for building graphs. Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all its commands.  • Created and configured new JIRA projects and worked with departments to maintain existing JIRA projects and created and maintained various DevOps related tools for the team such as provisioning scripts, deployment tools and staged virtual environment using Docker  • Implemented REST API's in Python using python based micro-framework called Flask with SQL Alchemy in the backend for management of data center resources on which OpenStack would be deployed.  • Worked in DevOps group running Jenkins in a Docker container with EC2 slaves in Amazon AWS cloud configuration.  • Designed and developed MySQL Procedures and UNIX Shell Scripts for Data Import/Export and Conversions.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting programming related issues. Worked on Atlassian tools like Bamboo, Jira, and confluence  • Installed and configured configuration tool such as Chef Server/workstation and nodes via CLI tools to AWS nodes.  • Created and configured new JIRA projects and worked with departments to maintain existing JIRA, Used Pandas library for statistics Analysis & NumPy for Numerical analysis.  • Developed GUI using webapp2 for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of python code using a web browser.  • Responsible for user validations on client side as well as server side. Automated the existing scripts for performance calculations using NumPy and SQLalchemy.    • Used jQuery and AJAX calls for transmitting JSON data objects between front end and controllers and Utilized continuous integration and automated deployments with Jenkins, Ansible and Docker.  • Expertise in setting up, configure, manage and scale Amazon Elastic Search cluster and used Log Stash along with Kibana (ELK Stack) for centralized logging which stores logs and metrics into an S3 bucket using Lambda functions, utilized Glacier for storage for setting up and maintenance of Auto-Scaling of AWS stacks.  • Expertise in delivering Agile projects from end to end Continuous Integration/Continuous Delivery (CI/CD) pipeline by integration of tools like Jenkins, Chef and AWS for VM provisioning. Integrated Jenkins with Docker container using Cloud bees Docker pipeline plugin and provisioned the EC2 instance using Amazon EC2 plugin.  • Experience in working with automation, setup and administration of build and deployment CI/CD tools such as Jenkins, Anthill Pro and UDeploy/Ucode and integrated with Build Automation tools like ANT, Maven, Gradle and other Atlassian products- Bamboo, JIRA, Bitbucket for building of deployable artifacts (JAR, WAR & EAR, and DLL & EXE) from source code. Used Jenkins with SonarQube to get the better quality of the Source code.  • Used Amazon EC2 command line interface along with Bash/ Python to automate repetitive work.  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast HTTP server and Amazon AWS architecture.  • Involved in designing and developing of Automation Test cases using Selenium WebDriver, Java, and TestNG.  • Developed Quality Assurance and Management teams to ensure cross communication and confirmed approval of all production changes.  • Connected continuous integration system with GIT version control repository and continually build as the check-in's come from the developer.  • Performed Unit testing, Integration Testing and generating of test cases for web applications using Junit and Python Unit test framework Hudson/Jenkins in the builds triggered by each push to GIT.  • Working as an application developer experienced with controllers, views and models in Django. Designed front end and backend of the application using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Develop consumer-based features and applications using Python and Django in test driven Development and pair-based programming.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Java, Bootstrap, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Created interactive data charts on web application using High charts JavaScript library with data coming from Apache Cassandra.  • Created Terraform scripts for EC2 instances, Elastic Load balancers and S3 buckets. Implemented Terraform to manage the AWS infrastructure and managed servers using configuration management tools like Chef and Ansible.  • Wrote ANSIBLE Playbooks with Python, SSH as the Wrapper to Manage Configurations of AWS Nodes and Test Playbooks on AWS instances using Python. Run Ansible Scripts to provision Dev servers.  • Worked on frontend frameworks like CSS Bootstrap for development of Web application. Worked in MySQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization and denormalization.  • Used Python based GUI components for the front-end functionality such as selection criteria. Connected continuous integration system with GIT version control repository and continually build as the check-in's come from the developer.  • Worked with View Sets in Django-REST framework for providing web services and consumed web services performing CRUD operations.  • Used Flask framework for application development. Designed and implemented a dedicated MYSQL database server to drive the webapps and report on daily progress.  • Developed python Script for moving files from drop box to Amazon server. Consumed external APIs and wrote RESTful API using Django REST Framework and Angular.js.  • Developed views and templates with python and Django view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly Website interface.  • Developed internal project in Flask to generate report from google analytics on daily, monthly and weekly basis.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Used Python Library Beautiful Soup 4 for Web Scraping to extract data for building graphs Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all its commands  • Automate the installation of ELK agent (filebeat) with Ansible playbook. Used Python (NumPy, spicy, pandas, scikit-learn, seaborn) and Spark (PySpark, MLlib) to develop variety of models and algorithms for analytic purposes  • Installed, configured and managed the ELK (Elastic Search, Log Facilitated Scrum ceremonies like Sprint planning, retrospectives, Daily stand-ups, etc. Stash and Kibana) for Log management within EC2/ Elastic Load Balancer (ELB) for Elastic search  • Used Amazon Elastic Beanstalk with Amazon EC2 to deploy project into AWS and good experience with AWS storage services (S3).  • Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, Oracle DB, PostgreSQL, and VMWare API calls.  • Designed automation scripts to back up the old records by using Mongo DB export command and transferred the files into backup machine with the help of ftplib.  • Followed AGILE development methodology to develop the application and developed Golang API and chat-bot using TDD to automate software deployments and rollbacks  • Used Test driven approach (TDD) for developing services required for the application and managed datasets using Panda data frames and MYSQL. Queried the database queries using Python.  • Using Chef, deployed and configured Elasticsearch, Logstash and Kibana (ELK) for log analytics, full text search, application monitoring in integration with AWS Lambda and CloudWatch.  • Built Elastic search, Log stash and Kibana (ELK) to store logs and metrics into S3 bucket using Lambda function.  • Recorded the online users' data using Python Django forms and implemented test case using Pytest.Developed the application using the Test-Driven methodology and designed the unit tests using Python Unit test framework.  • Working as an application developer experienced with controllers, views and models in Django. Designed front end and backend of the application using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Develop consumer-based features and applications using Python and Django in test driven Development and pair-based programming.  • Good experience in developing web applications and implementing Model View Control (MVC) architecture using server-side applications like Django and Flask.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Java, Bootstrap, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Created interactive data charts on web application using High charts JavaScript library with data coming from Apache Cassandra.  • Created Terraform scripts for EC2 instances, Elastic Load balancers and S3 buckets. Implemented Terraform to manage the AWS infrastructure and managed servers using configuration management tools like Chef and Ansible.  • Wrote ANSIBLE Playbooks with Python, SSH as the Wrapper to Manage Configurations of AWS Nodes and Test Playbooks on AWS instances using Python. Run Ansible Scripts to provision Dev servers.  • Implemented CI/CD for J2EE and Microservices Architecture using Anthill Pro and deploy and integrated SonarQube to get better Source code.  • Having Knowledge on AWS Lambda, Auto scaling, Cloud Front, RDS, Route53, AWS SNS, SQS, SES.  • Actively involved in Initial software development life cycle (SDLC) of requirement gathering and in suggesting system configuration specifications during client interaction.  • Developed web-based applications using Python, Django, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and jQuery  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript. Involved in Developing a Restful service using Python Flask framework.  • Involved in debugging and troubleshooting issues and fixed many bugs in two of the main applications, which are main source of data for customers and internal customer service team.  • Installed and maintained web servers Tomcat and Apache HTTP in UNIX.  • Wrote Python modules to view and connect the Apache Cassandra instance. Involved in develop the REST Web services to expose the business methods to external services in the project.  • Built an Interface between Django and Salesforce and Django with RESTAPI. Embedded AJAX in UI to update small portions of the web page avoiding the need to reload the entire page  • Working as an application developer experienced with controllers, views and models in Django. Involved in debugging the applications monitored on JIRA using agile methodology.  • Wrote and executed various MySQL database queries from Python-MySQL connector and MySQL db. Package.  • Attended many day-to-day meetings with developers and users and performed QA testing on the Application.  • Developed, tested and debugged software tools for clients and internal customers of the organization.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Implemented admin sites to manage database information with Flask Admin, MySQL and SQLite. Prepared and analyzed reports using Python libraries and involved in environment Setup  • Responsible for analyzing various cross-functional, multi-platform applications systems enforcing Python best practices and provide guidance in making long term architectural design decisions.  • Worked on frontend frameworks like CSS Bootstrap for development of Web application. Worked in MySQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization and denormalization.  • Used Python based GUI components for the front-end functionality such as selection criteria. Connected continuous integration system with GIT version control repository and continually build as the check-in's come from the developer.  • Worked with View Sets in Django-REST framework for providing web services and consumed web services performing CRUD operations.  • Wrote ANSIBLE Playbooks with Python, SSH as the Wrapper to Manage Configurations of AWS Nodes and Test Playbooks on AWS instances using Python. Run Ansible Scripts to provision Dev servers.  • Used Flask framework for application development. Designed and implemented a dedicated MYSQL database server to drive the webapps and report on daily progress.  • Developed python Script for moving files from drop box to Amazon server. Consumed external APIs and wrote RESTful API using Django REST Framework and Angular.  • Developed views and templates with python and Django view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly Website interface.  • Automated various infrastructure activities like Continuous Deployment, Application Server setup, Stack Monitoring using Ansible playbooks and has integrated Ansible with Run deck and Jenkins.  • Created a Python/Django based web application for data processing using MySQL as database, and HTML/CSS/JavaScript for frontend development and D3 JavaScript for Data Visualization.  • Worked in DevOps group running Jenkins in a Docker container with EC2 slaves in Amazon AWS cloud configuration.  • Created and maintained various DevOps related tools for the team such as provisioning scripts, deployment tools and staged virtual environment using Docker Skills Ajax (4 years), Apache (4 years), Aws (4 years), Bootstrap (4 years), Css (4 years), Django (4 years), Git (4 years), Html (4 years), Javascript (4 years), jquery (4 years), Json (4 years), Linux. (4 years), Mongodb (4 years), Mysql (4 years), python (4 years), Rest. (4 years), Restful web services (4 years), Unix (4 years), web services (4 years), Xml (4 years) Additional Information SKILLS:  Python, Golang, HTML5, CSS3, Angular.js, Shell Scripting, JSON, Rest, Apache Web Server, Django, SQL, UNIX, Windows, PostgreSQL, NumPy, SQL Alchemy, AWS, Tableau, soup, CSS/CSS3, Bootstrap, XML, JavaScript, jQuery, Flask, SciPy, Pandas, NumPy, Backbone JS, Restful Web services, , Linux, Git, Amazon s3, Jenkins, MySQL, Mongo DB, T-SQL, Eclipse, CSS, XML, MongoDB, JavaScript, , jQuery, CSS Bootstrap, Rabbit MQ, JavaScript, Eclipse, Git, GitHub Linux, Radis, Go language, AWS, Pandas, PyQt, DOM, , PHP, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, Bootstrap, MYSQL, GitHub, LINUX, NoSQL, MongoDB, SOAP, jQuery,