Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Cisco ? Over 5 years of experience in Software Development and Testing.  ? Experience with Linux command and bash shell scripting.  ? Object-oriented programming experience.  ? Experience with Restful web services.  ? Experience with Continues Integration and Continues Deployment using Jenkins.  ? Experience with ticketing/bug tracking systems.  ? Experience in using Version Control Systems like CVS, SVN and Git.  ? Experience with Docker.  ? Experience with selenium.  ? Experience with code review and code-merge etc.  ? Experience working in Linus (RHEL and UBUNTU) environments.  ? Experience testing HP storage devices (smart array controllers, Storage Enclosures) and working with storage protocols like SCSI, SAS etc.  ? Experience in developing, executing and maintaining automated test cases  ? Reviewed and contributed to test plans and other documentation  ? Experience with Agile and SCRUM methodologies.  ? Ability to learn quickly and adapt to new technical environments. Work Experience Python Developer Cisco - Seattle, WA February 2017 to Present Spark Media Fusion: project involves packaging of a media fusion hosted service as an on premise box, to be deployed at customer's premises. This box will be used by spark for video conferencing services.    Responsibilities  ? Developed test automation using python for testing VM deployment and fusing to the cluster.  ? Developed a basic call test container which does a basic health call and updates the status of the node to the cloud.  ? Developed the ova properties feature for the ECP  ? Developed Web service using python flask which provides system information of the ECP.  ? Created Docker files for various containers.  ? Perform end-to-end Quality Control and Quality Assurance activities for the project.  ? Expand test frame work to support new setups, equipment and to improve usability.  ? Diagnose the issues, report bugs, and take ownership.  ? Develop test cases to improve coverage, and debug the code  ? Analyze captures to diagnose and debug problems  ? Added Python scripts to parse the configuration files and to get the hardware configuration information.  ? Added test cases in Python to test thoroughly the developed features in Library.  ? Added also Utilities for the corresponding library features.  ? Work with and coordinate responsibilities with offsite team.  ? Added test cases which tests REST API  ? Developed Jenkins jobs which provisions machines for various build stages.  ? Participate in code review and code-merge etc.  ? Created and maintained Jenkins build pipeline for pushing FMS to various release channels.  ? Developed Ansible scripts to provision ECP's at various build stages.  ? Developed scripts to feature toggle various users to media fusion devices.  Environment: Python, Jenkins, Ansible, Docker, Restful Python Developer HP Smart Array Storage Automation - Houston, TX January 2016 to January 2017 HP smart array family storage controller cards support wide range of storage JBODs. These SAS controllers support various features like RAID support, Mirroring, Caching, Extension, Expansion, Multipath failure etc.; Developed library and test cases which communicate with underlying hardware issuing various SCSI/BMIC commands to the storage controllers.    Responsibilities:  ? Implemented features in the library to test the firmware of storage controller firmware in python.  ? Involved in setting up the test bed for testing and updating it with all the firmware and drivers.  ? Modified and added the test library that implements SCSI/BMIC protocol.  ? Implemented features in the library to test the firmware of storage controller firmware.  ? Implemented modules to test Multipath failure, Migration, Extension features.  ? Review and contribute to test plans and other documentation  ? Involved in code-merge, code review, code integration and module integration.  ? Perform end-to-end Quality Control and Quality Assurance activities for the project.  ? Written Codec's parse BMIC protocol messages exchanged with storage controller.  ? Work with and coordinate responsibilities with offsite team.  ? Analyze captures to diagnose and debug problems.  ? Expand test frame work to support new setups, equipment and to improve usability.  ? Troubleshooting Hardware setups and root cause the failures.  ? Diagnose the issues, report bugs, and take ownership.  ? Triaging Failures of test cases and determining root cause for failure  ? Modified and added shell scripts.  ? Involved in design analysis, creating design documents planning and managing day-to- ? day activities and interaction with team members to facilitate smooth  ? Developed module which communicates with salesforce API to fetch user account details and sync with scope database.  ? Developed test cases which tests CallOne new pricing system called CDG integration with scope.  ? Added lockbox file processing to new CDG systemDeveloped Python scripts which format and create daily transmission files.  ? Involved in coding, Unit testing, code walkthrough, code review, build and configuration management etc.  ? Diagnose the issues, report bugs, and take ownership.  ? Expand test frame work to support new setups, equipment and to improve usability.  ? Troubleshooting Hardware setups and root cause the failures.  ? Python scripts were developed to automate routine jobs and a utility to connect with other servers.  ? Develop test cases to improve coverage, and debug the code.    Environment: Python, Linux, Windows, bash, XML, MySQL, etc. Education Master's in Computer science University of Montana Missoula - Missoula, MT Skills PYTHON (2 years), DATABASE (1 year), INTEGRATION (1 year), INTEGRATOR (1 year), LINUX (1 year) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Programming methodologies: Waterfall and Agile  Web Server Apache Webserver, IIS, HTTP server, Web Logic, JBoss  Defect Tracking JIRA, Bugzilla, and VersionOne  Cloud services AWS, VMware, and Microsoft Azure  Programming Languages Python, C, C++, Java/J2EE, and PL/SQL, Perl, SQL  Markup languages HTML, JSON, XML  Scripting JQuery, Java Script, AJAX, Shell scripting.  Operating systems Windows, UNIX, Linux (CentOS and Ubuntu)  Databases Oracle, MySQL, Apache Cassandra, MongoDB  Frameworks Django, Flask, Nodejs, Angular JS  Integration Tools Jenkins, IBM integration and Web Builder  Protocols TCP/IP, HTTP/HTTPS, SOAP.  Computer Languages: Python, Java  Database: MSSQL, MySQL, , Oracle 11g  Tools and Systems JENKINS, DOCKER, SVN, GIT, MySQL, Flask, Restful web services, HP SAS Storage Controllers, VMWare, Selenium, Ansible