Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer Fremont, CA Phone – (217) 220 – 6665   manipython15@gmail.com  Professional Summary  • Over 2 years of professional Software Development work Experience with efficient application development and designing knowledge of Python and Django ability in development of web based applications using Python.  • Experience in working with Agile Methodologies (Scrum).  • Skillful experience in Python by developing software’s using new tools, libraries used: libraries- BeautifulSoup, numpy, Scipy, PySide, python-twitter, matplotlib, Pickle, Pandas data-frame, networkx, urllib2, MySQL dB for database connectivity) to improvise software development process.  • Experience in working with Python, Java, C++, HTML, XML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Bootstrap, JSON, Angular.JS and Node.JS.  • Excellent in front-end UI design implementations by writing HTML5/HTML, CSS3/CSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, jQuery, jQuery UI, jQuery Mobile to make better Single Page Application SPA working on Node.JS Server.  • Mastering in implementing Model view control architecture using Django for web based applications.  • Proficient in Object Oriented Programming concepts like Multi-Threading, Exception Handling and Collections.  • Proficient in developing Web Services (SOAP, RESTful) in Python using XML, JSON.  • Proficient in using editors Eclipse, PyCharm and Sublime Text while developing different applications.  • Experience in error detection and exception handling. Debugging using PDB, Eclipse and PyCharm.  • Having good knowledge in using NoSQL databases like Apache Cassandra and MongoDB.  • Sound Experience in using different version control systems like Git, CVS and GitHub.  • Good Knowledge in deployment of applications using Docker.  • Familiarity with development best practices such as code reviews and unit testing and experience in designing the automation frameworks.  • Expertise in working with GUI frameworks – PyJamas, Jython.  • Proficient in writing SQL Queries, Stored procedures, functions, tables, views, triggers on various databases like Oracle, DB2, MySQL.  • Having good knowledge in using POSTGRESql database.  • Good idea using debugging tools like Bugzilla and JIRA.  • Extensive knowledge of J2EE (JSP, JDBC, Servlets,).  • Experience in working with different operating systems Windows, UNIX/LINUX and MAC OSX.  • Good knowledge on hosting Python applications using WSGI module.  • Active participation in various phases of SDLC – Requirement Analysis, Design, Development and Testing on various Development and Enhancement Projects.   • Special skills in developing user friendly, simple yet effective web based applications.  • Very strong full life cycle application development experience.  • Experience with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins.  • Hands on experience in debugging and fixing the bugs and also very good with support and maintenance.  • Expertise in understanding user requirements and translating business requirements into technical solutions with excellent problem solving and troubleshooting capabilities.  • Maintained detailed documentation and architectural solutions in IT infrastructure and sales systems.   • Ability to learn and adapt quickly to the emerging new technologies and paradigms.   • Good at Analysis, Designing, Programming, Implementation and Testing techniques.  • A skilled problem solver and an efficient team player. Can effectively work in both independent and collaborative work environments.     SKILLS:.  • Always punctual to work  • Good time management  • Have good communication skills  • Easily coping up with the team environment    TECHNICAL PROFICIENCY:    Web Frameworks Django, Flask, Angular JS.  Programming Languages Python 2.7/3.4, C++, Java, Sql and PlSql.  Databases PostgreSql, My Sql, Oracle, Apache Cassandra, MongoDB.  Web Technologies HTML, CSS, JQuery, XML, AJAX, JavaScript, DOM Angular JS, Node JS,PHP, AWS EC Cloud.  Versioning Tools Git, SVN, CVS, GitHub.  IDE’s/ Development Tools Eclipse, NetBeans, PyCharm, PyScripter, PyStudio, and Sublime Text.  Operating Systems Windows, Ubuntu Linux, MAC OSX.  Deployment Tool Amazon EC2  Bug Tracking tools Bugzilla and Jira.    Professional Experience:    Comcast, CA Jan 2016 to till date  Python Developer  Description: Comcast is the largest cable network provider and offers cutting edge digital technology, a rich range of home entertainment and information choices for the whole family to enjoy and superior service that demonstrates customer satisfaction is our number one priority.     Responsibilities:  • Used UML Rational Rose to develop Use-case, Class and Object diagrams for OOA/OOD techniques.  • Built database Model, Views and API’s using Python for interactive web based solutions.  • Placed data into JSON files using Python to test Django websites.  • Used Python scripts to update the content in database and manipulate files.  • Developed web based application using Django framework with python concepts.  • Generated Python Django forms to maintain the record of online users.  • Used Django API’s to access the database.  • Involved in Python OOD code for quality, logging, monitoring, and debugging code optimization.  • Designed and developed the UI for the website with HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX and Angular JS.  • Wrote Python modules to view and connect the Apache Cassandra instance.   • Developed tools to automate some base tasks using Python, Shell scripting and XML.  • Created Unit test/ regression test framework for working/new code.  • Designed the generic message entity for the whole system using the Builder pattern.   • Implemented the function to send and receive AMQP messages on RabbitMQ synchronously and asynchronously, and send JMS message to Apache ActiveMQ on the edge device.  • Used PyQt to implement GUI for the user to create, modify and view reports based on client data.  • Installed and maintained web servers Tomcat and Apache HTTP in LINUX.  • Developed efficient Angular.js for client web based application.  • Responsible for designing, developing, testing, deploying and maintaining the web application.  • Involved in working with Python open stock API’s.  • Responsible for managing large databases using Panda data frames and MySQL.  • Wrote and executed various MySQL database queries from Python-MySQL connector and MySQLdb package.  • Involved in debugging and troubleshooting issues and fixed many bugs in two of the main applications which are main source of data for customers and internal customer service team.  • Implemented SOAP/RESTful web services in JSON format.  • Created Git repository and added the project to GitHub.  • Involved in debugging the applications monitored on JIRA using agile methodology.  • Attended many day-to-day meetings with developers and users and performed QA testing on the application.    Environment: Python, Django, PyQT, Panda API, HTML, CSS, AJAX, Tomcat, Apache HTTP, Angular.js, JSON, Restful, XML, JavaScript, OOD, Shell Scripting, GITHub, MYSQL, Cassandra, Jira, Agile.    Sparsh Communications Limited - India Jan 2014 to Mar 2015 Python Programmer Description:  Sparsh Communications is an advanced and diversified IT outsourcing company which provides offshore software outsourcing services and solutions which are designed with a focus on secure, expandable, scalable and consistent business systems.  Responsibilities:  • Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django/Java module to deliver certain format of data.  • Used Django Database API’s to access database objects.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using python.  • Responsible for search engine optimization to improve the visibility of the website.  • Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code  • Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.    Environment: Python, Django 1.3, MySQL, Linux, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, Apache. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Comcast January 2016 to Present Description: Comcast is the largest cable network provider and offers cutting edge digital technology, a rich range of home entertainment and information choices for the whole family to enjoy and superior service that demonstrates customer satisfaction is our number one priority.    Responsibilities:  • Used UML Rational Rose to develop Use-case, Class and Object diagrams for OOA/OOD techniques.  • Built database Model, Views and API's using Python for interactive web based solutions.  • Placed data into JSON files using Python to test Django websites.  • Used Python scripts to update the content in database and manipulate files.  • Developed web based application using Django framework with python concepts.  • Generated Python Django forms to maintain the record of online users.  • Used Django API's to access the database.  • Involved in Python OOD code for quality, logging, monitoring, and debugging code optimization.  • Designed and developed the UI for the website with HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX and Angular JS.  • Wrote Python modules to view and connect the Apache Cassandra instance.  • Developed tools to automate some base tasks using Python, Shell scripting and XML.  • Created Unit test/ regression test framework for working/new code.  • Designed the generic message entity for the whole system using the Builder pattern.  • Implemented the function to send and receive AMQP messages on RabbitMQ synchronously and asynchronously, and send JMS message to Apache ActiveMQ on the edge device.  • Used PyQt to implement GUI for the user to create, modify and view reports based on client data.  • Installed and maintained web servers Tomcat and Apache HTTP in LINUX.  • Developed efficient Angular.js for client web based application.  • Responsible for designing, developing, testing, deploying and maintaining the web application.  • Involved in working with Python open stock API's.  • Responsible for managing large databases using Panda data frames and MySQL.  • Wrote and executed various MySQL database queries from Python-MySQL connector and MySQLdb package.  • Involved in debugging and troubleshooting issues and fixed many bugs in two of the main applications which are main source of data for customers and internal customer service team.  • Implemented SOAP/RESTful web services in JSON format.  • Created Git repository and added the project to GitHub.  • Involved in debugging the applications monitored on JIRA using agile methodology.  • Attended many day-to-day meetings with developers and users and performed QA testing on the application.    Environment: Python, Django, PyQT, Panda API, HTML, CSS, AJAX, Tomcat, Apache HTTP, Angular.js, JSON, Restful, XML, JavaScript, OOD, Shell Scripting, GITHub, MYSQL, Cassandra, Jira, Agile. Python Programmer Sparsh Communications Limited January 2014 to March 2015 Description:  Sparsh Communications is an advanced and diversified IT outsourcing company which provides offshore software outsourcing services and solutions which are designed with a focus on secure, expandable, scalable and consistent business systems.    Responsibilities:  • Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django/Java module to deliver certain format of data.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using python.  • Responsible for search engine optimization to improve the visibility of the website.  • Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code  • Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.    Environment: Python, Django 1.3, MySQL, Linux, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, Apache Education Bachelor of Technology in Education Details Vignan University Additional Information SKILLS:.  • Always punctual to work  • Good time management  • Have good communication skills  • Easily coping up with the team environment    TECHNICAL PROFICIENCY:    Web Frameworks Django, Flask, Angular JS.  Programming Languages Python 2.7/3.4, C++, Java, Sql and PlSql.  Databases PostgreSql, My Sql, Oracle, Apache Cassandra, MongoDB.  Web Technologies HTML, CSS, JQuery, XML, AJAX, JavaScript, DOM Angular JS, Node JS,PHP, AWS EC Cloud.  Versioning Tools Git, SVN, CVS, GitHub.  IDE's/ Development Tools Eclipse, NetBeans, PyCharm, PyScripter, PyStudio, and Sublime Text.  Operating Systems Windows, Ubuntu Linux, MAC OSX.  Deployment Tool Amazon EC2  Bug Tracking tools Bugzilla and JIRA.