Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - NBC Universal New York, NY • 6 years of experience as a Web/Application Developer and coding with analytical programming using Python, Django, C++.  • Experience in Object oriented Design and Programming concept  • Having good knowledge in using NoSQL databases like Apache Cassandra (1.2, 2.0, and 2.1) and MongoDB (2.6, 2.4)  • Experience of software development in Python (libraries used: libraries- Beautiful Soup, numpy, scipy, matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas dataframe, networkx, urllib2, MySQLdb for database connectivity) and IDEs - sublime text, Spyder, pycharm, emacs.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, PHP, XML, CSS, HTML, JavaScript and Jquery.  • Having experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in  • a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts. Hands on working with Python 2.7.10, SVN, Git, JIRA, Bugzilla, Axosoft, Amazon EC2/S3.  • Design and develop required JavaScript / HTML components.  • Expertise in writing Automation test scripts using QTP 10.0 and VB script.  • Experience in developing web-based applications using Python 2.7/2.6, Django 1.4/1.3, PHP, Angular JS, VB, C++, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and JQuery Experienced in automating deployment to a distributed architecture with tools such as Capistrano or Chef.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Worked in agile and waterfall methodologies with high quality deliverables delivered on-time.  • Experience in utilizing SAS Procedures, Macros, and other SAS application for data extraction, data cleansing, data loading and reporting.Implemented code to perform CRUD operations on MongoDB using PyMongo module.  • Expertise in client scripting language and server side scripting languages like JavaScript, JQuery, JSON, DOJO, bootstrap, Node.js, Angular.js, backbone.js, Require.js.  • Excellent experience with Python development under Linux OS (Debian, Ubuntu, SUSE Linux, RedHat Linux, Fedora)  • Worked on Celery Task queue and service broker using RabbitMQ.  • Experience with Jsp Servlets, Web Services (SOAP, REST) and Tomcat.  • Sound Knowledge of Amazon AWS S3. Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon cloud.  • Good experience in Python, Django, Zope, Pyramid Framework.  • Experience with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, PHP, C++, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and Jquery in Linux based OS. Work Experience Python Developer NBC Universal - New York, NY February 2015 to Present Worked closely with designer. Converted Photoshop images into XHTML/CSS, complex Flash  integration.  • Consolidated many previous websites onto one dedicated RHEL hosts.  • Maintenances PHP/MySQL (primarily Joomla), Classic ASP/MSSQL. Communicating and interfacing with previous developers on a regular basis.  • Created and helped deploy advertisements with Advert Serve.  • Started developing with Django 0.96 and currently developing with Django 1.0  • Deployed production site using Apache 2.0 with mod_ python  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgresSQL with complete data integrity. Experience with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins.  • Using django_evolution and manual SQL modifications was able to modify Django models while retaining all data, while site was in production mode. Experienced with NOSQL database such as MongoDB and HIVE.  • Build high-performance streaming REST server in Flask  • Worked very closely with designer, tightly integrating Flash into the CMS with the use of  Flashvars stored in the Django models. Also created XML with Django to be used by the Flash.  • Created Python/MySQL back-end for data entry from Flash. I had to assist the Flash developer  send the correct data via querystrings.    Environment: XML Schemas, XML, JSF, Java Script, CSS, HTML, Angular JS, Linux, Shell Scripting, Python 2.7, Java Script, JQuery, JSON, XML, MySQL. Python Developer Verizon Data Services - Tampa, FL February 2014 to January 2015 • Responsible for setting up networks through Design and Development.  • Good knowledge of web services with protocols such as SOAP and RESTful API.  • Engineered various custom modules for integration of various types of network circuits.  • Developed memory managed design patterns for various GigE networks.  • Optimized the code using smart pointers, profilers and C++ Standard template library.  • Designed and built an effective Basis Video customization development environment for other  developers to work in.  • Directly responsible for various enhancements of Equipment updates/transmission of signals on  OC/STS cables.  • Authored important Network APIs for Basis Video, developed user interface screens and solved  customer reported software bugs or issues.  • Used Purify, GDB and DBX for debugging/crash logs which helped in performance enhancement and optimization.  • Used various Design Patterns in provisioning the networks.  • Rewrite existing Java, C++ application in Python.  • Responsibilities for creation of Database, Business Logic to display the records dynamically on template based on query, providing user permission to access particular features of the site.  • Used data structures like directories, tuples, object oriented class based inheritance features for making complex algorithms of networks  • Did Content Management through front end, live search and normal search features.  • Created Forms, views, models using Django.  • Used the Python's modules numpy, matportlib etc for generating complex graphical data, creation of histograms etc.  • Used Python's XML parser architectures (SAX) and DOM API for tracking small amounts of data without requiring the DB.  • Building new and integrating existing API endpoints using Django rest framework  • Profiled python code for optimization and memory management.  • Implemented locking mechanisms using multi threading functionality.    Environment: Python 2.6/2.7, Linux, Shell Scripting, JavaScript, Django Framework, CSS, SQL, MySQL, LAMP, JQuery, Adobe Dreamweaver, Apache web server. Python Developer Digital Mojo - San Diego, CA August 2012 to July 2013 • Work with team of developers on python applications for RISK management.  • Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript. Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Expertise in writing Constraints, Indexes, Views, Stored Procedures, Cursors, Triggers and User  Defined function.  • I have also used Selenium Library to write fully functioning test automation process that allowed the simulation of submitting different we requests from multiple browser to web application.  • Used JQuery for all client side Javascript manipulation.  • Created unit test/regression test framework for working/new code  • Using Subversion control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating  language to create a user-friendly website interface.    Environment: Python, Django 1.3, MySQL, Linux, HTML, XHTML, SVN, CSS, AJAX, Bugzilla, JavaScript, Apache Web Server, Django, Java/C++. Python Developer Capital one - Richmond, VA August 2011 to July 2012 • Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  • Worked extensively with Bootstrap, Javascript, and jQuery to optimize the user experience.  • Used Selenium Library to write fully functioning test automation process that allowed the simulation of submitting different we requests from multiple browser to web application.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile)  • Used JQuery for all client side Javascript manipulation.  • Scalable, database-driven web application development using a variety of frameworks: ASP.NET on C#, Flask on Python, and PHP.  • Familiar with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services (AWS)  • Using Subversion control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Built development environment with JIRA. Also haning good experience in Database MySQL, MongoDB,  Couchdb, PostgreSQL, Oracle 11g  • Implemented multiple high performance MongoDB replica sets on EC2 with roboust reliability.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Involved in entire lifecycle of the project including Design, Development, and Deployment,  Testing and implementation and support.    Environment: Python 2.7, Python 2.7, Django, HTML5/CSS, MS SQL Server 2013, MySQL, Javascript, Eclipse, Linux, Shell Scripting, JQuery, GitHub, Angular.JS, Jira Python Developer Fox Interactive - Los Angeles, CA July 2010 to June 2011 • Participated in the complete SDLC process and used PHP to develop website functionality.  • Coding in LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and PHP) environment.  • Developed GUI HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS 5 and JavaScript (jQuery)  • Worked mainly on Core Java, C++, STL, data structures, UNIX, multithreading.  • Built application logic using Python 2.7.  • Used Apache Couchdb (NoSQL) in AWS Linux instance in parallel to RDS MySQL to store and analyze job market info.  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing  XML documents.  • Knowledge of the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), Agile and Waterfall Methodologies.  • I have used AWS (Amazon Web services) in Redshift, EmR for improved efficiency of storage.  • Wrote AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Datatables into HTTP-serializable JSON  strings. Used Jenkins to deploy your Django application and run unit tests.  • Used the Django Framework to develop the application.  • Used Django APIs for database access.  • Used WebServices to get travel destination data and rates.  • Participated in requirement gathering and worked closely with the architect in designing and modeling.  • Issues pertaining to Realtime data being read from RabbitMQ into Postgres and Cassandra.  • Using Python to develop RESTful APIs that are used to gather various types of client information  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures on MYSQL. Additional Information Technical skills    Operating Systems: Unix, Linux, Windows and Mac  Web technologies: JavaScript, XML, HTML, CSS  Languages: Python, Java, C, SQL, Shell Scripting  Database: SQL SERVER, MYSQL, Oracle  Software Tools: Microsoft Visual Studio .Net 2008, MS Visio, Valgrind  Version Control Tools: CVS, Perforce, Code Collaborator