Python GUI Application Developer / Data Engineer <span class="hl">Python</span> GUI Application <span class="hl">Developer</span> / Data Engineer Milwaukee, WI Python Programmer Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python GUI Application Developer / Data Engineer GE Healthcare - Waukesha, WI September 2017 to Present Designed and Developed a stand alone cross platform GUI application using PyQT5 that connects with Virtual Machines and do additional tasks on them.  SqLite DB is used in the application.  Application is developed in Fully Modular Object Oriented style.  QSS is used for all aesthetics.  Application auto updates the DB using the API from the portal.  Created Dashboards using Bokeh to show the current statistics.   Data Engineer:  Collecting DICOM images, Mask the data, transforming the Data ready to be used for Machine Learning algorithms.   Used Logistic regression to classify and detect the best images available.  Pandas, Numpy, scipy, sklearn, Matplotlib,Seaborn are some of the libraries used in the process. Python Developer Spire Infotech - Hyderabad January 2014 to December 2015 Project: Beam Fiber  Assisted in reduction of cost and optimization of supplier selection for the CRM Applications.  Analysed and optimized the contention ratio and there by increasing the user satisfaction.  Able to group the users and apply usage based throttling and burst rates.  Ensured high quality data collection and maintaining the integrity of the data.  Cleaned data and processed third party spending data into maneuverable deliverables within specific formats with Excel macros and python libraries.   Used several python libraries like wxPython, numPY and matPlotLib.  Was involved in environment, code installation as well as the SVN implementation.  Build all database mapping classes using Django models.  I have used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code  This project also used other technologies like JQuery for java script manipulations, bootstrap for the front-end html layout.  Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application. Software Engineer Accenture - Chennai, Tamil Nadu May 2012 to October 2013 Project: First Data Corporation, Mumbai, India  Migrated the system from old system CTL to OmniPay, a merchant solution-based application.  Developed many re-usable automated scripts to generate dummy transactions in both system integration phase and User Acceptance Testing Phase.  Wrote SQL server Mappings from old system to the new system using SQL server management studio.  Developed scripts to validate the batch files which are generated on a daily, weekly, fortnightly and monthly basis.  Worked closely with risk teams to find the default users and generated reports grouped by account transactions using Microsoft Excel.  Handled 400k+ total accounts of merchants and analyzed most profitable accounts to promote good will to the merchants.  Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures for normalization and renormalization in MYSQL.   Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.   Involved in testing migrated data field to field mapping.   Used HP ALM Quality Center for creating and tracking the defects that are identified during the different phases of testing. Education Master of Science in Computer Science University of Central Missouri - Lee's Summit, MO August 2017 Bachelor of Science in Electrical and Electronic Engineering GITAM University - Visakhapatnam, Andhra Pradesh May 2012 Skills Python (5 years) Certifications/Licenses Using Python to Access Web Data by University of Michigan on Coursera March 2016 to Present https://www.coursera.org/account/accomplishments/certificate/6Z9GJW4S6VKA Using Databases with Python by University of Michigan on Coursera October 2016 to Present https://www.coursera.org/account/accomplishments/certificate/82MYZZNALAV2 Machine Learning by Stanford University on Coursera November 2017 to Present Applied Machine Learning by University of Michigan on Coursera November 2017 to Present Deep learning and Neural Networks by Deeplearning.ai on Coursera November 2017 to Present Additional Information Python Libraries:   numpy, pandas, dask, pyspark, matplotlib, seaborn, bokeh, sklearn, scipy, keras, sqlite, sqlalchemy, urllib, requests, beautifulsoup, xml, json, os, r2py, sympy, Django , sockets.    Can adapt to any library, framework with minimal documentation.