Python developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">developer</span> Python Developer Newark, DE • Over 4 Years of experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Management and Implementation of various stand-alone, client-server enterprise applications.  • Around 3 years in Python (libraries used: libraries- Beautiful Soup, urllib2, MySQL for database connectivity) and IDEs - sublime text, pycharm  • Expertise in Object-Oriented design and coding. Good knowledge of various Design Patterns and UML.  • Data output-Made data chart presentations and code variables from original data, conducted static analysis as and when required and provided summaries of analysis  • Good Knowledge of Django.  • Working Knowledge of Java and java related frameworks.  • Good knowledge of server Apache Tomcat, Web logic.  • Experienced with databases using ORMs for integrating with MySQL, SQLite. Also, experienced with writing custom queries through database connectors.  • Experienced in web applications development using Django/ Python using HTML/CSS for server-side rendered applications.  • Having experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Good knowledge of various design patterns and UML.  • Having comprehensive understanding of various phases of SDLC.  • Experienced in writing SQL Queries, Stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, triggers.  • Hands on experience in GIT, JIRA, Bugzilla.  • Good analytical and problem solving skills and ability to work on own besides being a valuable and contributing team player    Technical Skills    Primary Languages: Pythonand SQL  Python Libraries: beautiful soup, urllib2  Python Framework: Django  Version Control Tools: Git, Github, SVN  Bug Tracking Tools: Jira, Bugzilla  Database: Sqlite3, MongoDB, Oracle11g  Operating System: Linux, Windows  Software Development Lifecycle: Agile Methodology, Scrum. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python developer Solutions Drive - Newark, DE Present Responsibilities    • Worked with Network related python libraries for transferring the files and connecting remotely to the servers.  • Ensured high quality data collection and maintaining the integrity of the data.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  • Generating various capacity planning reports (graphical) using Python packages like Numpy, matplotlib.  • Analyzing various logs that are been generating and predicting/forecasting next occurrence of event with various Python libraries.  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures on MYSQL.  • Prepared and analyzed reports using python libraries.  • Analyzing the source data coming from different sources (SQL Server, Oracle, Sales force and also from flat files like Access and Excel) and working with business users and developers to develop the Model.  • Designed and Developed DB2 SQL Procedures and UNIX Shell Scripts for Data Import/Export and Conversions.  • Job scheduling, batch-job scheduling, process control, forking and cloning of jobs and checking the status of the jobs using shell scripting.  • Automated different workflows, which are initiated manually with Python scripts and Unix shell scripting.    Skills Used  Primary Languages: Pythonand SQL  Python Libraries: beautiful soup, urllib2  Python Framework: Django  Version Control Tools: Git, Github, SVN  Bug Tracking Tools: Jira, Bugzilla  Database: Sqlite3, MongoDB ,Oracle11g  Operating System: Linux, Windows  Software Development Lifecycle: Agile Methodology, Scrum.    Environment:Linux, Unix Shell scripting, Python 2.7, Python3.3, Python libraries  (Numpy,matplotlib) Python Developer Par Pharmaceutical June 2012 to August 2014 Description: The Project is to development of drug development and treatment tracking system. Also there was Worked on conversion of Sales/Back Office Integration system from PHP to Python/Django System.    Responsibilities:  • Involved understanding the current business process, defining scope of the project along with position statement  • Re-engineered various modules for implementing changes and creating efficient system.  • Developed dynamic web pages using python Django Frameworks.  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation  • Supported Apache Server on Linux Platform.  • Installation and setting up Python/Unix test beds  • Created use-case scenarios and storyboards in MS Word and MS PowerPoint for better visualization of the application.  • Write Automation/test python scripts to test.  • Flex development exposure of Flex layout and navigation, event handling, pop-up dialogs, menus and skinning.  • Used HTML, CSS for front-end applications.  • Used python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Resolved issues and improvised the process to ensure a stable and accurate solution.  • Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users  • Python OO Design code for manufacturing quality, monitoring, logging, and debugging code optimization  • Responsible for analysis, design, development and integration of Market Risk applications with JAVA/ PYTHON.  • Held meetings with client and worked all alone for the entire project with limited help from the client.  • Worked on writing and as well as read data from csv and excel file formats  • Provided technical and business knowledge to clients.  • Analyzed data using Excel VBA scripts and Macros  • Working with the architect, developers on business and technical issues, helping in designing the system; and testers to ensure all requirements are correctly translated.  • Managed requirements and tasks using JIRA  • Automate the outbound/inbound EDI document to drop files in the client ftp server  • Data mapping, logical data modeling, created class diagrams and ER diagrams and used SQL queries to filter data within the Oracle database.    Environment: MS Visio, JIRA, UML, Python 2.7, Sublime text2(IDE) Windows 7, SQL, Requests, urllib, urllib2, Beautifulsoup, Django Education Bachelor of Technology in Technology JNTU Skills Primary Languages: Pythonand SQL Python Libraries: beautiful soup, urllib2 Python Framework: Django Version Control Tools: Git, Github, SVN Bug Tracking Tools: Jira, Bugzilla Database: Sqlite3, MongoDB ,Oracle11g Operating System: Linux, Windows Software Development Lifecycle: Agile Methodology, Scrum. (4 years)