Python developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">developer</span> Python developer - BedrockData • 6 years of experience as a Web/Application Developer and coding with analytical programming using Python, Django, C++.  • Experience in Object oriented Design and Programming concept  • Experienced with full software development life-cycle, architecting scalable platforms, object oriented programming, database design and agile methodologies.  • Experience in leading multiple efforts to build Hadoop platforms, maximizing business value by combining data science with big data.  • Design and develop required JavaScript / HTML components.  • Expertise in writing Automation test scripts using QTP 10.0 and VB script.  • Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache.  • Experienced in automating deployment to a distributed architecture with tools such as Capistrano or Chef.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Worked in agile and waterfall methodologies with high quality deliverables delivered on-time.  • Experience in utilizing SAS Procedures, Macros, and other SAS application for data extraction, data cleansing, data loading and reporting.  • Experience with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, PHP, C++,  XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and Jquery in Linux based OS. Work Experience Python developer BedrockData - Boston, MA May 2014 to Present Database modeling and design. Involved in developing and implementation of the web application using Ruby on Rails.  • Simple web app for reviewing sitcoms that gives users the ability to view, add, review, up/down vote, search, etc.  • Developed in Windows and going to deploy it in Linux server.  • Utilized Active Record eager loading to improve rendering time of index pages, incorporated up/down voting, reviewing, and several custom sorting methods for shows to provide smooth user experience  • Cross-referenced Seat Geek and Spotify APIs to get album artwork and track previews for each artist  • Boston concert aggregator that provides a comprehensive list of shows in Boston with track previews, album artwork, tagging, up/down voting, and more to help users find the best show in town.  • Exprienced in RSpec, Git, Object-oriented programming, MySQL, JavaScript, jQuery and, Amazon Web Services, Knockout.  Environment: Python, MySql, Git, RSpec, Linux, Selenium, Active Admin, Amazon, Web Services. Python Developer Princeton Information, Jersey City January 2013 to April 2014 Worked in stages such as analysis and design, development, testing and debugging.  • Worked on CSV files while trying to get input from the MySQL database.  • Created and executed test plans using PyUnit.  • Translate Linear Algebra to MATLAB syntax.  • Performed data cleansing by analyzing and eliminating duplicate and inaccurate data using PROC FREQ, PROC COMP, PROC UNIVARIATE, PROC RANK, and macros in SAS.  • Demonstrate validation via MATLAB simulation for interpretation.  • Worked with the testing team for resolving bugs.  • Having Strong Knowledge on Data Management Department. Coding with Rumba, Stastics with Microsoft Excel, SAS,  • Closely involved in performance evaluation and User Acceptance Test.    Environment: Python, MySQL, HTML, CSS, Subversion, Adobe Flash, Apache, Phusion Passenger, Windows XP (development), Linux (hosted RedHat/Ubuntu) Python Developer Perkin Elmer - Waltham, MA January 2012 to December 2012 Intensive program focused on full-stack Ruby on Rails development  • Learned fundamentals of: Ruby, Rails, Javascript, CSS, HTML, Git, jQuery  • Built clone projects of popular websites such as: Twitter, Flickr, Craiglist, Ebay, and more.  • Personal Capstone Project: Fluffy, a donation platform for local animal shelters that uses game mechanics for recurring payments  • Throughout the course installed various APIs and Gems into the Rails framework such as Monban, Geocoder, Stripe, Pusher  Environment: MySql, Git, RSpec, Selenium, ActiveAdmin, Amazon Web Services, Python. Additional Information Technical skills    • Languages: Ruby, Java, HTML, CSS, Dr.Scheme/Racket  • SQL, PostgreSQL  • Full-time hands-on Ruby-On-Rails development, RSpec, Git, Object-oriented programming, MySQL, JavaScript, jQuery and Ajax-based applications  • Databases: Software/Framework Rails, Git, Github, Foundation, Rspec, Capybara.