Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Umpqua Bank San Jose, CA ? Experienced professional with around 4 years of technical exposure in diverse technologies like Python, Django, PostgreSQL, Linux, Java, MySQL and AWS.  ? Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, DJANGO, GTK, QT, C++, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  ? Hands-on experience in SOAP and RESTful web services.  ? Hands-on experience in relational database connections like DB-API connection management and query based access to databases like PostgreSQL and MySQL in Python  ? Experienced in MVW frameworks like Django, Angular.js, Java Script, JQuery and Node.js.  ? Having working Knowledge of Amazon AWS S3.  ? Expert knowledge of and experience in Object oriented Design and Programming concepts.  ? Experience with Design, code, and debug operations, reporting, data analysis and web applications utilizing Python.  ? Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache.  ? Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  ? Familiar with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services.  ? Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  ? Having experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  ? Experienced in working on Application Servers like WebSphere, WebLogic, Tomcat, Web Servers like Apache server, NGINX and Integrated Development Environments like PyCharm, Eclipse, MyEclipse, JDeveloper and RAD.  ? Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  ? Well-versed in ticketing system such as Altassian JIRA.  ? Effectively involved in handling releases, managing merges and deployments.  ? Hands-on experience in writing and reviewing requirements, architecture documents, test plans, design documents, quality analysis and audits.  ? Highly efficient in working in fast paced environment and multiple issues at a time.  ? Highly motivated, dedicated, quick learner and have proven ability to build and manage a team and work individually.  ? Excellent written and oral communication skills with results-oriented attitude. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Umpqua Bank - Portland, OR September 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Developed and designed Python based API (RESTful Web Service) to interact with company's website.  ? Successfully implemented Django framework (including Tastypie) to design server applications.  ? Wrote Python code and actively participated in the procedure to automate processes.  ? Build and test functionality within a production pipeline.  ? Implemented Python code to fix bugs and provides upgrades to existing functionality.  ? Provided fault isolation and root cause analysis for technical problems.  ? Highly efficient in handling multi-tasking issues in a fast paced environment.  ? Created Business Logic using Python to create Planning and Tracking functions.  ? Worked very closely with designer, tightly integrating Flash into the CMS with the use of Flashvars stored in the Django models. Also created XML with Django to be used by the Flash.  ? Developed multi-threaded standalone app in Python, PHP, C++ to view Circuit parameters and performance.  ? Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web based solution.  ? Developed Business Logic using Python on Django Web Framework.  ? Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture.  ? Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  ? Developed internal auxiliary web apps using Python Flask framework with Angular.js and Twitter Bootstrap CSS / HTML framework.  ? Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  ? Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  ? Utilized PyQt to provide GUI for the user to create, modify and view reports based on client data.  ? Developed complex web, middleware, and back end systems in Python, SQL and Perl for Linux and Windows.  ? Created PyUnit test scripts and used for unit testing.  ? Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  ? Developed user interfaces using HTML5 and JavaScript.  ? Created a Git repository and added the project to GitHub.  ? Utilized Agile process and JIRA issue management to track sprint cycles.  ? Wrote validation scripts in SQL to validate data loading.  ? Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.    Environment: Python, Django, PYQt, Python SDK, AWS, Flash, PHP, PyQuery, DOM, Bootstrap, XML, HTML5, JavaScript, Angular.js, JSON, Rest, Apache Web Server, Git Hub, MySQL, LINUX. Python Developer Del Sur Mortgage - Napa, CA February 2016 to August 2017 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web based solution.  ? Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  ? Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  ? Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  ? Rewrite existing Java application in Python module to deliver certain format of data.  ? Developed Python batch processors to consume and produce various feeds.  ? Created test harness to enable comprehensive testing utilizing Python.  ? Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  ? Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  ? Performed testing using Django's Test Module.  ? Used python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  ? Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users  ? Created Data tables utilizing PyQt to display customer and policy information and add, delete, update customer records.  ? Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  ? Used JQuery for selecting particular DOM elements when parsing HTML.  ? Worked with JSON based REST Web services.  ? Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  ? Developed SQL Queries, Stored Procedures, and Triggers Using Oracle, SQL, PL/SQL.  ? Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.    Environment: Python, Django, PYQT, Java, XML, JQuery, DOM, JSON, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, JSON, Rest, PHP, SVN, MY SQL, Windows and LINUX. Python Developer Arroyo Insurance Services - Arcadia, CA December 2014 to January 2016 Responsibilities:  ? Developed custom reports using HTML, Python and MySQL.  ? Developed monitoring and notification tools using Python.  ? Documented the revised workflow using confluence wiki.  ? Created Data tables utilizing PyQt to display customer and policy information and add, delete, update customer records.  ? Used Python based GUI components for the front end functionality such as selection criteria.  ? Implemented navigation rules for the application and page outcomes, written controllers using annotations.  ? Written queries in MySQL and Native SQL.  ? Added the navigations and paginations and filtering columns and adding and removing the desired columns for view.  ? Worked in an agile development environment.  ? Used GitHub for version control.  ? Used PyQuery for selecting particular DOM elements when parsing HTML.    Environment: Python, PyQT, PyQuery, MySQL, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, DOM, Ajax, agile, Web Services (SOAP), XML, PL/SQL, and Oracle SQL Developer. Education Bachelor's Skills PYTHON (3 years), XML (3 years), MYSQL (3 years), ORACLE (2 years), SQL (3 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Programming Languages Python, Java, XML  Python Framework Django  Operating Systems Windows, AIX, Linux DNS,  Networking troubleshooting SSH, Apache2 and other troubleshooting tools  Databases PostgreSQL, MySQL, MS SQL Server and Oracle  Tools Altassian JIRA, Git, Eclipse, Netbeans and STS  Familiarity TCP/IPv4, DHCP, DNS, AD, HTTP, SSH and IPSec