Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Bank United • Around 4 years of experience as a Python Developer, proficient coder in multiple languages and experience in Design, Development, Implementation of Python, Django, Flask client-server technologies based applications, RESTful services, AWS, C, C++, JAVA and SQL.  • Experience in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC)-Waterfall, agile Process across various workflows (Requirement study, Analysis, Design, Coding, Testing, Deployment and Maintenance) in Web & Client/Server application development.  • Extensive experience in developing web applications using Python, Django, Flask frameworks.  • Experience in working with several python libraries including Beautiful soup, NumPy, matplotlib, SciPy, PyQt, Scapy, SQLAlchemy.  • Good experience in developing web applications implementing MVT architecture using Django, Flask, Webapp2 web application frameworks, with good understanding of Django ORM and SQLAlchemy.  • Hands-on experience with industry-standard IDEs like PyCharm, Sublime, NetBeans.  • Extensive experience in developing applications by implementation of web based and client/server application using HTML, Angular JS, Node JS, CSS, JavaScript, and various Java/J2EE technologies.  • Good experience in Shell Scripting, Oracle RDBMS, SQL Server, UNIX and Linux.  • Good knowledge of TCP/IP, UDP, HTTP, HTTPS, SSH and SSL protocols.  • Expert at version control systems like Git, SVN and CVS, Migrated repos from svn to Github.  • Proficient in writing SQL Queries, Stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, triggers using relational databases like Oracle, MSSQL Server.  • Experience with source code testing frameworks like JUnit, PyUnit.  • Good experience in working with Amazon Web Services (AWS) like AWS EC2, S3, VPC, SES, ELB, EBS, RDS, Glacier, DynamoDB etc.  • Good knowledge on C, C++ languages including threads, templates, Polymorphism and OO concepts.  • Experience in using XML, SOAP, REST web Service for inter operable software applications.  • Hands on experience with bug tracking tools JIRA and Bugzilla.  • Experience in Agile development processes ensuring rapid and highquality software delivery  • Highly motivated, quality minded developer, with proven ability to deliver applications against tight deadlines. Work Experience Python Developer Bank United - New York, NY August 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Gathering requirements and translating the business details into Technical design.  • Implemented responsive user interface and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Utilized Python libraries like wxPython, NumPy, SciPy, Web2py.  • Designed RESTful Webservices using FLASK, with emphasis on improved Security for the service using FLASK-HTTPAuth with HTTPS.  • Wrote and executed various MySQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL DB package.  • Development of Python APIs to dump the array structures in the Processor at the failure point for debugging.  • Creating RESTful web services for Catalog and Pricing with Django MVT, MySQL, and MongoDB.  • Collaborated within a team using an agile development workflow and widely-accepted collaboration practices using Git.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Implemented Multithreading module and complex networking operations like raceroute, SMTP mail server and web server Using Python.  • Automated RabbitMQ cluster installations and configuration using Python/Bash.  • Written test cases using PyUnit and Selenium Automation testing for better manipulation of test scripts.  • Used automation Jenkins for continuous integration on Amazon EC2.  • Used JIRA for Bug tracking and issue tracking.  • Worked as part of an Agile/Scrum based development team and exposed to TDD approach in developing applications.  Environment: Python, Django, CherryPy, HTML5, CSS, Bootstrap, JSON, JavaScript, AJAX, RESTful webservice, MySQL, SQLite, Cassandra, AWS (EC2, S3), PyUnit, Karma, Jenkins, Selenium. Python Developer Say One - IN January 2016 to June 2017 Responsibilities:  • Involved in the project life cycle including design, development and implementation and verification and validation  • Created a Python/Django based web application using Python scripting for data processing, MySQL for the database, and HTML/CSS/JQuery and HighCharts, matplotlib for data visualization of sales, tracking progress, identifying trends.  • Fetched twitter feeds for certain important keyword using python-twitter library(Tweepy), Used JSON to store the twitter data which was further represented using matplotlib visualization and generated graphical reports for business decision using matplotlib library.  • Participate in the design, build and deployment of NoSQL implementations like MongoDB.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Extensive code reviewing using GitHub pull requests, improved code quality, also conducted meetings among Team.  • Developed server-based web traffic using RESTful API's statistical analysis tool using Flask, Pandas.  • Wrote PL/SQL views, Stored Procedures, database triggers & Packages.  • Enhanced by adding Python XML SOAP request/response handlers to add accounts, modify trades and security updates.  • Recording of Scripts Web Services HTML using Vugen and SoapUI and script validation through co correlations, parameterizations and other methods.  • Worked with RDBMS like Oracle 11g/10i and MySQL databases to query and read data.  • Developed various Python scripts to find vulnerabilities with SQL Queries by doing SQL injection, permission checks and performance analysis.  • Developed scripts to migrate data from proprietary database to PostgreSQL.  • Created backend database T-SQL stored procedures and Jasper Reports.  • Performed Unit testing, Integration Testing, GUI testing using Pytest and web application testing using Selenium Python bindings.  • Logged user stories and acceptance criteria in JIRA for features by evaluating output requirements and formats.  Environment: Python, Django, HTML5, CSS, Bootstrap, JQuery, JSON, JavaScript, PostgreSQL, T-SQL, MongoDB, SoapUI, MySQL, Amazon AWS S3, Bugzilla, JIRA. Python Developer Nuventure Technology Solutions Pvt Ltd August 2014 to December 2015 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Developed Business Logic using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Write scripts using python modules and its libraries to develop programs that improve processing of access requests.  • Utilized PyUnit, the Python Unit test framework, for all Python applications and used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Used PyQuery for selecting particular DOM elements when parsing HTML.  • Designed and created backend data access modules using PL/SQL stored procedures and Oracle.  • Worked in an agile development environment.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Designed object model, data model, tables, constraints, necessary stored procedures, functions, triggers, and packages for Oracle Database.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Used Wireshark, live http headers, and Fiddler debugging proxy to debug the Flash object and help the developer create a functional component.  Environment: Python, Django, HTML5, CSS, XML, AJAX, MySQL, JavaScript, JQuery, Pyquery, PostgreSQL, T-SQL, JavaScript, Eclipse, Git, Linux, Shell Scripting. Skills DJANGO (3 years), HTML5 (3 years), JAVASCRIPT (3 years), jQuery (3 years), MYSQL (3 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Languages Python, C, Java, SQL, PL/SQL.  IDE's PyCharm, Emacs, Eclipse, NetBeans, Sublime, SOAP UI  Web Technologies HTML5, CSS3, XML, JavaScript, JQuery, Angular JS, Node JS  Databases SQL Server, Oracle, MySQL, PostgreSQL, Cassandra, MongoDB  Frameworks Django, Flask, CherryPy, web2py, Tornado, Pyramid, Robot  Web Servers JBoss 4.0.5, BEA Web Logic, Web Sphere, Apache Tomcat 5.5/6.0  Version Controls SVN, VSS, CVS, Git.  Operating Systems MS Windows 9X/NT/XP/2003, Linux/Unix, Sun Solaris, OS X  Building& Design Tools ANT, MAVEN, Gulp, UML, JIRA, Bugzilla  Methodologies Agile, Scrum, Waterfall