Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Wells Fargo Plano, TX • 7 years of IT experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Implementation and Testing of various stand-alone and client-server architecture based enterprise application software in Python on various domains.  • Handy experience in developing Web-Applications implementing Model View Control architecture using Django and Flask web application frameworks.  • Good experience in Shell Scripting, SQL Server, UNIX and Linux, Open stack.  • Good Experience in Object Oriented Analysis in developing Front-End and Back-End framework using various design patterns.  • Thorough knowledge in various front-end tools like HTML, JavaScript, XML, JQuery and AJAX and Angular JS  • Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  • Good knowledge of Web Services with protocols SOAP, REST.  • Involved in Unit testing, Integration testing, User-Acceptance testing, and Functional testing.  • Expertise in working with server-side technologies including databases, Restful APL and MVC design patterns.  • Superior Troubleshooting and Technical support abilities with Migrations, Network connectivity, Security, and Database applications.  • Well versed with Design and Development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Experience in working with different operating systems Windows XP / Vista / 7 / 8, UNIX, and MAC OS X.  • Good Analytical and Problem-Solving skills and ability to work on own besides being a valuable and contributing team player.  • Excellent Interpersonal and Communication skills, Efficient Time Management and Organization Skills, ability to handle Multiple-Tasks and work well in a Team-Environment.  • Good knowledge on data migration from relational database to NoSQL.  • Excellent knowledge on Python Collections and Multi-Threading.  • Skilled experience in Python with proven expertise in using new tools and technical developments  • Good experience of Web Services with protocols SOAP and REST.  • Good experience in using different kind of data bases like MySQL, Oracle.  • Experience in analyzing and handling large datasets using Oracle Relational database 9g, 10g, 11g.  • Have good experience in working with application server WebLogic (10.0, 10.3, 11g), WebSphere (7.0, 8.5, 8.5.5), Apache (6.0, 7.0, 8.0).  • Experience in writing SQL queries and Stored Procedures and implementation on different databases.  • Expertise in understanding complex codes and extending their functionality.  • Having experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Knowledge of the software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), Agile and Waterfall Methodologies.  • Active Participation in full development life cycle (requirements, design, architecture, development, testing). Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Wells Fargo - Plano, TX August 2016 to Present Description -AIG is working on transitioning from SAS/Excel to Python to create a web-based platform to host commercial models created by actuaries and used by Underwriters. This project has recently begun with three basic models belonging to Auto Liability, General Liability and Workers Compensation. And there's already a ton of scientific libraries being used in Python to ensure proper transition from Excel.  Responsibilities -  • Developed web applications in Django Framework's model view control (MVC) architecture and Developed with Python and Django web frame work.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks as well as coded in LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python) environment.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  • Develop consumer based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML, Behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pair based programming.  • Designed and developed middleware, using RESTful web services based on a centralized schema which is consumed by thousands of users.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Able to create scripts for system administration and AWS using languages such as BASH and Python.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse JSON documents and load the data in database.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Implemented migration tasks from Oracle apps to PostgreSQL databases.  • Developed globally used GUI tools with Python, allowing warehouse managers to track product movement through the warehouse.  • Used Python, Flask and AngularJS for the design, development and deployment of the application  • Implemented algorithms in Python and used AngularJS for graphs and user interface.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  • Dynamic implementation of SQL server work on website using SQL developer tool.  • Developed scripts using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.7, MVC, MySQL, PostgreSQL, Windows, Linux, HTML, CSS, JQuery, JavaScript, Apache, XML, AWS, Restful, Multithreading, HTTP, Shell Scripting, PL/SQL, Oracle 9i. Python Developer Softunique Info Solutions - Bengaluru, Karnataka June 2015 to July 2016 Description - SalesLogix is the platform of choice for companies strategically focused on customer engagements. Robust functionality, deep integration, and high flexibility in how the companies use and deploy their solution result in a solution that works the way they need it to.  Responsibilities -  • Programming in Python as well as Perl.  • Participated in the complete SDLC process.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Developed user interface using CSS, HTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Created entire application using Python, Django, MySQL and Linux.  • Designed and implemented a dedicated MYSQL database server to drive the web apps and report on daily progress.  • Used Django framework for application development.  • Wrote unit test cases for testing tools.  • Collaborated with internal teams to convert end user feedback into meaningful and improved solutions.  • Enhanced existing automated solutions, such as the Inquiry Tool for automated Asset Department reporting and added new features and fixed bugs.  • Embedded AJAX in UI to update small portions of the web page avoiding the need to reload the entire page.  • Improved performance by using more modularized approach and using more in-built methods.  • Performed data manipulation/storage for incoming test data using lxml /etree libraries.  • Developed API modularizing existing python module with the help of Pyyaml libraries.  • Designed and configured database and back end applications and programs.  • Performed research to explore and identify new technological platforms.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.4, Puppet Rspec, Jenkins, Grafana/Graphite, MySQL, Linux, HTML, CSS, JQuery, JavaScript, Apache, Linux, Git, Perl, Cassandra Python Developer Progressive Digital Media Private Limited March 2014 to May 2015 Description - Progressive Digital Media isone of the leading Telecom providers. Our project is Directory Enquiry - a search engine for Directory. The Application mainly has two modules Agent Application and Admin Application. Searching different directories based on name and city maintaining the search history of agent and maintaining reports are the main functionalities in Agent Application. Admin Application mainly comprises of creating new users, their roles, permissions, and check reports.  Responsibilities -  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Work with team of developers on python applications for RISK management.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript  • Made Django web based apps for Insurance premium calculations.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python.  • Rewrite existing Java, C++ application in Python.  • Used Django APIs for database access.  • Used Python to extract weekly hotel availability information from XML files.  • Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis.  • Used Apache Couchdb (NoSQL) in AWS Linux instance in parallel to RDS MySQL to store and analyze job market info.  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  • Developed ColdFusion Components, custom tags and modified CF Objects.  • Designed the architecture of the hardware environments and methodology of the code.  • Involved in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment  • Wrote AJAX framework to transform Datasets and tables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings.  • Build SQL, NO SQL queries implementing functions, packages, views, triggers, and tables.  Environment: Python 2.x, Django 1.4, Java Script, Matplotlib, Plotly, HTML, JQuery, JSON, AJAX, XML, CSS, Oracle, MySQL, Bootstrap, SOAP Web Services, Beautiful Soup, Jenkins, SVN, Linux, Eclipse. Education Python for Extracting Data Partnership for Assessment of Readiness for College and Careers - Grapevine, TX June 2013 to February 2014 Wellness and Disease Management Secure Messaging Center - Minneapolis, MN January 2008 to May 2013 architecture Created Use-Case diagrams and State diagrams using Skills APACHE (3 years), CSS (3 years), DJANGO (3 years), HTML (3 years), JAVASCRIPT (3 years) Additional Information Technical Skills  Operating Systems Windows, Linux, Mac OS  Languages C, C++, Java, Python2.x/3.x, Shell Script, Perl  Framework Django and Flask Web framework  Databases MySQL, Sqlite3, PostgreSQL, Oracle, Pl/SQL, SQL Server,NOSQL  Web Technologies HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, XML, AJAX, Bootstrap, Angular JS, PHP  Web Server Apache, Jenkins, WebSphere  Tools & Framework Visual Studio, Eclipse, Microsoft Visio, Sublime, PyCharm