Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer • 3+ Years of experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Testing, Customization, Bug fixes, Enhancement, Support and Implementation of various web, stand-alone, client-server enterprise applications using Python, C, Django, Django Rest Framework in various domains.  • Experienced with Object Oriented Programming, Software Development Life Cycle, Database designs, agile methodologies, coding and testing of enterprise applications.  • Experience in object oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, XML, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, jQuery.  • Experienced in LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python/PHP) and WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python/PHP) Architecture.  • Experience in writing scripts using Gherkin Syntax in Behave framework in Python.  • Experienced in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, Subroutines, functions on SQL .PL/SQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Strong experience in using different Python libraries like Pandas, Numpy, pyodbc, pymssql, requests, grequests, urllib, urllib2, matplotlib etc.  • Good experience in working with various Python Integrated Development Environments like PyCharm, PyScripter, Spyder, PyStudio, PyDev, NetBeans and Sublime Text.  • Experienced in Python's modules numpy, matplotlib etc. for generating complex graphical data, creation of histograms etc.  • Experience in developing web-based applications using Python 2.7/2.6, Django 1.4/1.3, PHP, HTML/HTML5, DHTML, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, XML and JSON.  • Experienced in MVW frameworks like Django, Java Script, jQuery.  • Familiar and Worked on various Operating Systems like UNIX (Sun Solaris, AIX), Linux and Windows. Knowledge of Servers Apache Tomcat and Nginx.  • Exceptionally solid background in composing API's along with Web Services over Python.  • Proficient in Unit testing/ Test-driven Development (TDD), Load Testing and Integration Testing.  • Experienced in using SVN, Eclipse, Pycharm, JIRA and GIT.  • Expertise in practicing the SDLC models, Agile methods with Scrum, Extreme Programming, Ticketing systems using JIRA and TDD.  • Involved in database-driven web application development using a variety of frameworks such as Django on Python.  • Experience in using UNIX shell Scripts for automating batch programs.  • Expert in using JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services.  • Build/Provision Docker containers using docker compose.  • Automated docker image deployment to a dev and production environment using Jenkins.  • Ability to work on own initiative and as a part of team. Willingness to learn new technologies, openness to new ideas and ability to learn very quickly. Work Experience Python Developer Trepp LLC - New York, NY January 2018 to May 2018 Responsibilities:  • Good experience in developing web applications and implementing Model View Control (MVC) architecture using server side applications like Django and Flask.  • Experience in developing views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly Website interface.  • Implemented client-side validation to avoid back and forward between server-client and provide better user experience.  • Migrated platform from physical server to virtual environment. Took it from development into production by wiring up a Nginx stack.  • AGILE (SCRUM) practices and attending daily agile (SCRUM) meetings and SPRINT retrospective meetings to produce quality deliverables within time and setting weekly goals.  • Consumed external APIs and wrote RESTful API using Django REST Framework and AngularJs. Equally comfortable working within the Django ORM or writing native SQL in SQLServer.  • Developed Python Script for moving files from dropbox to Amazon server.  • Written Python Scripts for loading data from CSV files into the database tables.  • Documented tasks in Confluence and related them to the JIRA tickets.  • Extensive experience in using Python /Perl to code and design various phases for data processing pipeline.  • Experience working with version control systems such as Git and Apache SVN for maintaining a consistent state throughout the application development process.  • Involved in database-driven web application development using a variety of frameworks such as Django on Python.  • Created Docker images, upload/download in and out from the Docker Hub.  • Worked on setting up new tools with Docker to assist with auto-scaling, continuous integration, rolling updates with no downtime.  • Developed UI for handling different phases of exceptions for the data in SQL Server database and fix them. Developed web pages for the exception statistics for each phase.  • Excellent experience in designing and maintaining complex SQL queries and developing PL/SQL stored procedures.  • Followed the best practice of Python such as PEP-8.  • Developed Python scripts to execute Stored Procedures and load data from various forms of csv files into staging tables in SQL Server database.  • Involved in back end development using Python with framework Flask  • Developed internal project in Flask to generate report from google analytics on daily, monthly and weekly basis.  • Worked on Jenkins continuous integration tool for deployment of project.    Environment: Python 3.6, Python, Django 2.0, Django REST Framework, Flask, XML, HTTP, Ajax, Bootstrap, JSON, HTML, CSS, jQuery, Pandas, Bugzilla, GITHUB, Java Script, PL/SQL, Microsoft SQL Server, Shell Scripting, Amazon Web Services (AWS). Python Developer Sphinix Network Solutions - New York, NY December 2016 to January 2018 Responsibilities:  • Designed front end and backend of the application using Python on Django Web FrameworkUsed HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON designed and developed the user interface of the website.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly Website interface.  • Utilized Python libraries with Python, numpy, Twisted and matplotlib.  • Used GitVCS to keep track of multiple issues and easily switch from one task to other.  • AGILE (SCRUM) practices and planning of sprint attending daily agile (SCRUM) meetings and SPRINT retrospective meetings to produce quality deliverables within time.  • Worked with tracking tools such as JIRA, Rally.  • Worked on Python Open stack API's and was involved in writing Shell scripts to automate Web Sphere Admin tasks and application specific syncs / backups and other schedulers.  • Developed Job dashboard monitor UI using Django/Flask.  • Automated JIRA processes using Python and bash scripts.  • Involved in database-driven web application development using a variety of frameworks such as Django on Python.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML and JSON reports and load the information in database.  • Developed SQL loader scripts to load data from various forms of flat files into staging tables in Oracle database using Shell Scripts.  • Worked on Jenkins continuous integration tool for deployment of project. Worked on Amazon services like Amazon Cloud EC2.  • Added support for Amazon AWS and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  Environment: Python 2.6, Python, Django, REST Web services, XML, HTTP, Ajax, AngularJS, Bootstrap, JSON, HTML, CSS, jQuery, Pandas, Bugzilla, SVN, Java Script, PL/SQL, Oracle 9i, Shell Scripting, Amazon Cloud EC2, Amazon Web Services (AWS). Python Developer Tech Mahindra Private Ltd - Hyderabad, Telangana December 2013 to August 2015 Responsibilities:  • Extensively used Python Django Framework for developing backend of applications. Responsible for analyzing various cross-functional, multi-platform applications.  • Developed a Restful service using Python Flask framework.  • Worked with team of developers on Pythonapplications for RISK management.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Java and Python using Web Frameworks.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python.  • Handled all the client-side validation using JavaScript.  • Used PyQt for the functionality filtering of columns helping customers to effectively view their transactions and statements. Implemented navigation rules for the application and page.  • Implemented the MVC pattern with Struts framework with Tiles for the presentation layer.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the JQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Also used Bootstrap and Angular.js as a mechanism to manage and organize the HTML page layout.  • Created a Git repository and added the project to GitHub.  • Developed Python batch processors to consume and produce various feeds.  • Responsible for Creating Python API's.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Interacted with QA to develop test plans from high-level design documentation.    Environment: Python 2.6, Django, REST Web services, Struts, PHP, C++, HTML5, CSS3, JQuery, API, AJAX, XHTML, Bootstrap JavaScript, XML, GitHub, Flash, SQLite, MYSQL, SQL, PLSQL, Oracle and Windows, Linux. Education Bachelors of Technology in Computer Science JNTU University Masters Computers and Information Sciences-New York Institute of Technology - New York, NY Skills AJAX (3 years), BOOTSTRAP (3 years), DJANGO (3 years), JAVA (3 years), jQuery (3 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Operating Systems: Unix, Linux, Windows and Mac  Web technologies: JSON, XML,HTML5,CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX.  Languages: Python , Java, C,SQL,PL/SQL, Shell Scripting.  Databases: Oracle 12c/11g/10g/9i,Microsoft SQL Server 2005/2008,MYSQL  Frameworks: Django, Django REST, web2py, Flask, Pyramid, Struts and CSS Bootstrap.  Development Tools: Sublime Text, Jet Brains Pycharm, Eclipse Python & Django Plugin.Pydev  Methodologies: Agile,Waterfall,Hybrid (waterfall, Agile)  Configuration Management: GIT, GITHUB, SVN