Java Developer Java <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - Resource Stack LLC Herndon, VA • Over 3 years of professional experience as a Developer in Object Oriented development, implementation, maintenance and support of web and distributed enterprise applications using Java/J2EE technologies.  • Extensive hands-on coding & development skills in Java/J2EE, Spring, Spring Boot, Hibernate, REST API& SOAP Web services, SOA, Oracle, SQL Server, PL/SQL, Unix & Windows  • Excellent knowledge on OOPs concepts and experience in implementing applications using Java/J2EE Design Patterns such as Singleton, Factory, DAO, Business Delegate etc.  • Experience in working on various Spring modules (Spring Core, Spring MVC, Spring AOP) along with Hibernate as the back-end ORM tool for implementation of persistence layer and mapping of POJOs.  • High level knowledge on Middleware integration with Web Services.  • Good experience in automated build tools Maven, SVN.  • Experience in preparing high level and low-level design diagram using UML2.0 - Class diagrams, Object Diagram, Package Diagram, Sequence Diagrams and Use Case Diagrams.  • Experience in Application Servers such as Tomcat, WebLogic.  • Experience working with different SDLC methodologies like Waterfall, Agile.  • An effective communicator with strong leadership, relationship management, coordination, flexible, analytical and problem-solving skills.  • Utilized the functionality of Aspect Oriented Programming to modularize pre and post events with minimal impact to the existing code. Work Experience Java Developer Resource Stack LLC - Herndon, VA July 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Designed, developed and implemented the application as a team member.  • Implemented Business Logic of the system using Core Java API.  • Involved in Analysis, Design, Coding and Development of custom Interfaces.  • Developed many Java Interfaces to integrate the Web Services with the database transaction tables.  • Experience in developing web services for production systems using SOAP.  • Used JavaScript for client-side validations and hands on experience with data persistency using Hibernate and Spring framework.  • Maintained the existing code base developed in the Spring, hibernate framework by incorporating new features and doing bug fixes.  • Testing the module, fixing the bugs and XML used to transfer the data between different layers.  • Developed Micro Service to provide Restful API utilizing Spring Boot with various data persistence frameworks such Hibernate and JPA and messaging engines.  • Used Java8 features for lambda expressions and method references.  • Dealt with the database operations e.g., Calling stored procedures and stored functions.  • Used Python Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for data manipulation and retrieval.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse JSON documents and load the data in database.  • Used Cloud Front to deliver content from AWS edge locations to users, allowing for further reduction of load on front-end servers.  • Hosted the application by creating multiple instances on AWS EC2 making it a distributed environment.  • Worked with AWS for Storage & content delivery and Application deployment services.  • Used Jenkins and Code Deploy plug-in to deploy the application into AWS cloud.  Environment: Java8/J2EE, Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Micro Services, Hibernate, UNIX, HTML, CSS, AJAX, jQuery, SQL, Python, Pandas, Eclipse, Maven, Junit, GIT, AWS (cloud), EC2, S3, Lambda Services, Jenkins (CI/CD) Python Developer (Internship) Quantum - San Jose, CA January 2017 to April 2017 Responsibilities:  • Implemented cascading approvals.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Rewrite existing python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Handled all the client-side validation using JavaScript.  Environment: Python, Django, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, MySQL, Pandas, NumPy. Java Developer Uclid IT Services June 2014 to May 2015 Responsibilities:  • Involved in preparing the technical design documents using UML data model representation, use case diagrams, Sequence Diagrams, Class Diagrams using Rational Rose.  • Utilized AJAX to increase web page's interactivity, speed and functionality.  • Implemented MVC architecture using Spring MVC framework and enhanced the design using Stateless Session Beans for the Middle Tier Development.  • Designed and implemented complex multi-application flow through integration implemented using XML, XSL and JMS configurations.  • Implemented Object-relation mapping in the persistence layer using hibernate frame work in conjunction with Spring Aspect Oriented Programming (AOP) functionality.  • Implemented Data Access Object (DAO) adapter pattern to communicate with Business Layer with Database by using Hibernate Template class.  • Developed XML files for Object Relation Mapping (ORM) and Hibernate Configuration.  • Used Hibernate Query Language (HQL) in data access classes to implement basic persistent storage functions such as Create, Read, Update and Delete (CRUD)  • Used Web API's like HTTP, XML.  • Configuration, deployment and setup of application and Web Sphere Application Server with both Windows and UNIX environments.  • Used GIT as a documentation repository and version controlling tool.  • Tested the performance using profiling tools in Eclipse.  • Used Agile Development Methodologies and rapidly delivered software.  Environment: Java, J2EE, HTML, JSP, AJAX, spring, Hibernate, SOA (SOAP UI, WSDL), UML, XML, JUnit, UNIX, GIT. Education Master's in computer science engineering State university of New York June 2017 Bachelor of Technology in Computer Science Engineering Osmania University May 2014 Skills DATABASE (2 years), AJAX (2 years), ECLIPSE (2 years), Git (2 years), JAVA (2 years), Java J2Ee, Hibernate, J2Ee, Spring, Rest Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Languages: Java, Python, Ruby.  Front End Technologies: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript/jQuery, AJAX.  Frameworks: Spring, Spring MVC, JSON, spring Boot, Micro services, Django, Ruby on Rails.  Testing: Junit  Web Services: Restful, SOAP, XML.  Design Patterns: MVC, DAO, Dependency Injection (DI), Singleton.  Dev Environment/Tools: Eclipse, SVN, GIT, Maven, Rational Rose, Jenkins (CI/CD)  Servers: WebLogic, Nginx, Tomcat  Database and Tools: Oracle, MySQL, MongoDB.  OS: Windows, Linux, Mac.  Cloud Technologies: AWS, Ec2, S3, Lambda Services, Code Deploy.  SDLC: Agile Scrum, Waterfall.