Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - DhanuTek Northridge, CA ? 3+ years of SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT EXPERIENCE in Python, Java, and IDEs - Sublime text, PyCharm, Eclipse, PyDev.  ? Highly experienced in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle(SDLC).  ? Expert in Web application development using Python 3.6/3.5/3.4/2.7, JavaScript, MongoDB, HTML, JSON, and template languages.  ? Having experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  ? Experience in Python by developing software using new tools, libraries used: libraries- Numpy, Scrapy, PySide, python-twitter, matPlotLib, Pickle, Pandas dataframe, MySQL dB for database connectivity to improvise software development process, and CGI, flask and Django for web frameworks.  ? Having good Familiarity with Event-Driven programming in Python.  ? Expert in developing SSIS Packages to Extract, Transform and Load (ETL) data from/to SQL Server, Flat Files, Excel, CSV, MS Access.  ? Familiar with AWS (Amazon Web services) in Redshift, EMR for improved efficiency of storage and Proficient in SQL databases MS SQL, MySQL, Oracle and noSQL databases MongoDB, Cassandra.  ? Worked on the technologies like HTML, HTML5, CSS, CSS3, Javascript, jQuery, XPath, RegEx.  ? Different testing methodologies like unit testing, Integration testing, web application testing, selenium testing was performed.  ? Familiar with UNIX / Linux internals, basic cryptography & security.  ? Experience in writing queries (DML) and working with MySQL database and NoSQL databases like MongoDB, Cassandra.  ? Experience with client-side development languages like JS, Typescript; willing to learn RXJS, BABELJS.  ? Good Exposure in maintaining various version controls systems like GIT (Distributed Version Control System).  ? Experience in Computer Hardware Maintenance and networking.  ? Knowledge about TCP/IP, BGP routing, switching, VLANs, and Load balancing.  ? Good knowledge on GitHub.  ? Good Analytical and Problem-Solving skills and ability to work on own besides being a valuable and contributing team player.  ? Practical experience with working on Multiple-Environments like Development, Testing, Production.  ? Excellent Interpersonal and Communication skills, Efficient Time Management and Organization Skills, ability to handle Multiple-Tasks and work well in a Team-Environment.    TECHNOLOGY LANDSCAPE USED IN PROJECTS:  Languages Python, Java, C, C++, UNIX Shell Script, SQL  Frameworks and Libraries Django, Flask, Robot, AngularJS, JavaScript and Numpy, Panda, Apache Hadoop Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Python Developer DhanuTek - Northridge, CA September 2017 to Present Technologies used in project: Python 2.7/ 3.6, Pycharm IDE, HTML5, CSS/CSS3, Bootstrap, XML, JSON, JavaScript, JQuery, AWS, Robot framework, Linux, GitHub, MySQL, Numpy, Panda, CGI.    Responsibilities:  ? Programming in Python.  ? Participated in the complete SDLC process.  ? Developed a web application, views and templates for the company in Python, CGI, HTML and CSS to create to create a user-friendly website interface.  ? Developed and tested many features in an AGILE environment using HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, and Bootstrap.  ? Worked on Python NUMPY library to perform various complex operations.  ? Developed user interface using CSS/CSS3, HTML5, CGI, JavaScript and JQuery.  ? Designed and implemented a dedicated MYSQL database server to drive the web apps and report on daily progress.  ? Developed oracle libraries in PyCharm IDE that helps automating the queries related to oracle db.  ? Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  ? Wrote unit test cases for testing tools.  ? Managed and deployed multiple environments to AWS and Linux and built out overall web infrastructure as need.  ? Enhanced existing automated solutions, such as the Inquiry Tool for automated Asset Department reporting and added new features and fixed bugs.  ? Utilized cloud watch to monitor resources such as EC2, CPU memory, Amazon RDS DB services, EBS volumes; to set alarms for notifications or automated actions.  ? Designed and configured database and back end applications and programs.  ? Developed Unit test scripts for every module in the application.  ? Designed and configure database as well as backend applications and programs.  ? Involved in peer code reviews and performed integration testing of the modules.  ? Written PL/SQL Packages, Stored procedures, Views and Functions at the Oracle database.  ? Performed research to explore and identify new technological platforms.  ? Participated in various meetings and discussed Enhancements and Modification Request issues.    2. Client: Varkasa Java and Python Developer Woodland Hills, CA January 2016 to August 2017 Technologies used in project: Java, Python, AWS, CSS/CSS3, SQL, PL/SQL, HTML, JavaScripts, AJAX, GitHub, MySQL, Eclipse, PyCharm, MySQL.    Responsibilities:  ? Interacted with management and developers in a daily SCRUM to discuss test cases and schedules.  ? Developed multithreading platform for AnyAut application in Java and Python to make the test cases run in Parallel for functional software testing app.  ? Web application development using Python 3.6, MySQL, JavaScript, HTML, XML and template languages.  ? Written with object-oriented Python, SQL, HTML/CSS, Bootstrap, jQuery, Linux, Sublime Text.  ? Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  ? Worked on UI using HTML5, CSS3 and Java Scripts.  ? Created User Controls , built in keywords and simple animations using JavaScript and Python.  ? Uploading, copying, downloading, and deleting files using AWS: Amazon S3.  ? Using Amazon SQS to queue up work to run asynchronously on distributed Amazon EC2 nodes.  ? Developed Python batch processors to consume and produce various feeds.  ? Developed entire frontend and backend modules, and Business Logic using Python and Java.  ? Identified Test requirements from specifications, map test case requirements and design test coverage plan.  ? Created and built out QA Automated Test frameworks.  ? Created PHP/MySQL back-end for data entry.  ? Used JQuery for selecting DOM elements when parsing HTML.  ? Used GitHub for version control.  ? Experienced using GitHub for version control.  ? Update, maintain and change the current web applications as per the project requirement.  ? Skilled in using collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects, and followed coding and documentation standards.  ? Involved in the functional test of the application. Also, resolve production problems. Java & Performance Engineer Cognizant - The Hartford August 2014 to December 2015 Location: Tamil Nadu, India  Technologies used in project: Java, Performance Testing, ASP.NET, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, AJAX, MYSQL, Apache Tomcat, Linux, GitHub, HP LoadRunner, JMeter, DynaTrace, Eclipse, SiteScope, HP VUGEN, Citrix.    Responsibilities:  ? According to the performance testing NFR have-to meet business requirements developed Load test plans, Load test strategies and created User workflow diagrams in MS Visio.  ? Worked as Performer Tester for "The Hartford" client for MobileSales application.  ? Independently, developed V-user scripts by using VuGen 11.0 Web (HTTP/HTML) protocol based on the test case requirements and adjusted Screen resolutions to match the script before recording.  ? Involved in retrospective, SCRUM meeting for the business requirements along with the team and clients.  ? Actively attended meetings with other project team members to facilitate performance testing related questions and/or issues.  ? Involved in Connection to one controller and multiple load generators in performance centre and for long time (24 to 72 hours with 2000 to 3000 users) and short duration (10 to 12 hours with 2000 to 3000 users) and prepare the report in excel for hourly wise and day wise and sent the report to the management.  ? Performed various load test using different loads by setting up scenarios by adjusting run time settings, such as pacing, think time, Log settings, browser emulation and timeout settings in HP VUGEN and controller to simulate the scenarios according to the test case requirement.  ? Analysed the Transaction Summary Report and graphs generated in a LoadRunner Analysis module, and CPU, Memory and Heap leaks using SiteScope and Perfmon, and prepared reports.  ? Compared the results with previous test reports and advised on the improvements of performance.  ? Advice management of any risks for availability, performance or capacity, involved while setting up the ramp up, duration and ramp down for each script in controller.  ? Responsible for establishing and implementing processes for reporting on application availability and end user experience during critical times, and worked with Security team to resolve firewall issues logging into Remote Desktop.  ? Involved in understanding and analysing the client's business, requirements for the system.  ? Developed dynamic web pages, monitoring, notification tools, and applications using Java.  ? Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  ? The Batch process was developed using Java and SQL Stored Procedures.  ? Used JIRA for bug tracking and issue tracking and Used Agile Methodology and SCRUM Process.  ? Involved in capturing the requirements for serial functional interface and other software requirements specification document.  ? Ensured timely and accurate communication with development leads, project leads and senior management throughout the life cycle of the project.  ? Served as an Assistant Batch representative and organized cultural events, such as Diwali and welcoming freshers, during the 6 months of training period in Cognizant Company.  ? Earned "Rookie of the month" award for working effectively and efficiently for "The Hartford" client. Education Masters in Computer Science University of West Florida - Pensacola, FL web-designing and power-point presentation competitions Karunya University - Coimbatore, Tamil Nadu Skills CSS (3 years), HTML (3 years), JavaScript (3 years), Linux (3 years), MySQL (3 years), Python (2 years), Java (5 years), Eclipse (4 years) Additional Information Relational Databases MS SQL, MySQL, Oracle, PL/SQL, HiveQL and MongoDB  Web Technologies HTML, CSS, DHTML, JavaScript, Bootstrap, XML.  Protocols TCP/IP, FTP, UDP, Socket Programming  Web Application Servers, Tools and IDE  Apache server, CGI, Apache Tomcat, Eclipse, PyCharm, Dreamweaver, NetBeans, SlimeText, jGRASP, IDLE, Tableau and Visual Studio.    SDLC Methodologies Agile, Waterfall, Scrum    Operating Systems Window, UNIX, Linux, Mac OS  Testing Tools QTP, HP QC, Selenium, HP LoadRunner and JMeter  Performance Knowledge  Hp Loadrunner (Web, Citrix, Siebel, Oracle Web App 11i and Web services protocols), JMeter, Performance Center and Monitoring tools like dynaTrace, SiteScope, Perfmon, Quick Test Pro.    Bug Tracking Tool Quality Center/Test Director, BugZilla, JIRA  Packages MS Office (Word, Excel, and PowerPoint), MS Outlook