Freelance - Web Developer Freelance - Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> Freelance - Web Developer Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Freelance - Web Developer Oceanview Diner - Hampton Roads, VA 2017 to December 2017 • Collaborated with the client to develop content focused on driving customer engagement.  • Worked on Front End Framework using HTML, CSS, and Bootstrap for responsive User Interface.  • Utilized Google Maps API to show interactive geographical location.  • Managed and utilized Facebook APIs to increase visibility for the business.  • Designed and hosted the Website using Amazon Web Services (AWS) S3.  Tools Utilized: Amazon Web Server (AWS), CSS, HTML Student Python Developer - Python Academic Project HospitalViz August 2015 to December 2017 • Used large data sets obtained from the United States Medicaid website to identify different outcomes from hospital's nationwide and thus provide insight as to high quality care, low cost, readmission rates, safety, etc.  • Displayed data using Python Matplotlib, a library that helps to create Smart Graphics / Data Visualizations that are user friendly vs. displaying raw data.  • Utilized Python to Parse CVS files into appropriate Data formats to populate the Database.  • Used Python to create Interactive Dashboards to assist with Data Analysis.  • Created Interactive Maps and Analytical displays such as Chart and Graphs.  • Demonstrated data mining techniques (data processing, visualization, removal of outliers) to manage the data set consisting of years' worth of data and hospitals throughout the country.  Tools Utilized: Python, Python Matplotlib, Jupyter Notebooks    FantasyFootball AI  Student Python Developer - Python Artificial Intelligence Academic Project  • Created application to analyze weekly Fantasy Football games and predict optimized playing conditions.  • Utilized Artificial Intelligence techniques to increase positive outcomes.  • Utilized Python OpenStack API NumPy for numerical analysis.  • Leveraged Python data handling and libraries for robust analysis.  Tools Utilized: Python, Python NumPy    BooksU  Student Web Application Developer - Web Application Academic Project  • Served as the Project Manager for a group of 5 to create a fully functional e-commerce site.  • Observed an Agile work environment using 2-week sprints to accomplish different pieces of functionality within the website for example: Login, Logout, One Tap Email Capability, File Upload Ability, etc.  • Studied the Business Model to create the Entity Relational Diagram (ERD).  • Created the Database for the Web based application.  • Utilized HTML and CSS for the User Interface.  • Utilized PHP for the Server side Scripting, Data Transfer, and navigation of the Website.  • Created and maintained a SQL database of 5 plus schema to monitor user activity.  • Utilized the System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) to transform use cases into actionable stories.  Tools Utilized: CSS, HTML, MySQL, PHP Education B.S. in Computer Science in Computer Science University of North Carolina Charlotte - Charlotte, NC August 2015 to December 2017 Skills CSS (2 years), HTML (2 years), PHP (2 years), Python (2 years), SQL (2 years) Links http://github.com/keefeseanc Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  • Python • Nix Systems • R  • HTML 5 • Git • SQL  • CSS • MATLAB • Tableau  • Bootstrap • PHP • JAVA  • C++ • AWS • Project Management    GitHub Link  https://github.com/KeefeSeanC