Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Motorola Mobility Fremont, CA • 5 years of experience as a Web Application Developer and Software Engineer using Python, Django, Java  • Good Experience with Django, a high-level Python Web framework.  • Experience object oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, Java, CSS, HTML5, and JavaScript.  • Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Familiar with JSON based REST Web services  • Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL database.  • Excellent debugging, problem solving, optimization and testing skills.  • Highly motivated, dedicated, quick learner and have proven ability to build and manage a team and work individually.  • Excellent written and oral communication skills with results-oriented attitude. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Python Developer Motorola Mobility - Sunnyvale, CA May 2016 to Present Working on Order processing and shipment tracking system developed in Python/Django  Responsibilities:  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL and Django.  • Developed a Front-End GUI as stand-alone Python application.  • Used RESTful API for information extraction  • Debug application deployments on multiple environments.    Environment: Python, Django, MySQL, Git, Docker, HTML, CSS, JQuery, JavaScript, Linux. Application Developer Cisco Systems - San Jose, CA September 2015 to April 2016 Worked on Internal testing tools written in python. This toolkit allowed test case writers to develop their test, view results on a web browser  Responsibilities:  • Developed rich user interface using CSS, HTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Created Business Logic using Python  • Used Django framework for application development.  • Created database using MySQL, wrote several queries and Django API's to extract data from database.  • Used Git for the version control.  Environment: Python, Django, MySQL, HTML, CSS, JQuery, JavaScript, Linux. Programmer Whirlpool Corp - Stockton, CA January 2014 to September 2015 Worked on development of customer support and complains registration system for Whirlpool. This is a Post sales and Customer feedback and complains management system.  Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Rewrite existing Python/C++/ Java module to deliver certain format of data.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code  • Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.    Environment: Python, Java, MySQL, Linux, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Django Web Developer Bharat Chemicals - Chennai, Tamil Nadu June 2013 to December 2013 Bharat Chemicals is a conglomerate primarily engaged in the production and trading of chemicals and fertilizer and exploration and production of oil. Its majority owned fertilizer subsidiary Sinofert is involved throughout the chain from production of the product and procurement on international markets to distribution and retail.  Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Creating unit test/regression test for working/new code.  • Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.    Environment: Python, Django, MySQL, Linux, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and Apache Web Server. Education B.Tech. in Computer Science Dr. M.G.R. Educational and Research Institute 2013 Skills Django (4 years), JavaScript (4 years), Linux. (4 years), MySQL (4 years), Python (4 years) Additional Information Technical Proficiency:    Languages Python, Java, SQL  Python Framework Django  Storage MySQL, SQL Server 2008  Web Technologies JavaScript, HTML5, JQuery  Versioning Tools Git, SVN, CVS  Applications/Web servers Apache  Operating systems Linux/Unix, MAC OS