Jr. Python Django Developer Jr. <span class="hl">Python</span> Django <span class="hl">Developer</span> Jr. Python Developer Houston, TX Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Jr. Python Django Developer AK&S Associates - Hyderabad, Telangana January 2014 to December 2015 Responsibilities:  • Used MySQL as backend database and MySQL of python as database connector to interact with MySQL server.  • Developed Python/Django application for Analytics aggregation and reporting. Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django module to deliver certain format of data.  • Developed scripts in Python and Excel VBA to automate the data analysis, generating statistics isolating trends in memory failures.  • Maintained the versions using GIT and sending the release notes for each release.  • Handled potential points of failure through error handling and communication of failure.  • Implemented code in Python to retrieve and manipulate data.  • Developed Wrapper in Python for instantiating multi-threaded application.  • Managed datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL, queried MYSQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector MySQLdb package to retrieve information.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  • Expertise in performing Applied Statistics, Exploratory Data Analysis and Data Visualization using tools like ggplot2, Tableau.  • Development experience in python, Django and flask, have used MySQL, SQLAlchemy and sqlite3.  • Experience in Matplotlib and using scrapy and calculus in python.  • Provided technical assistance for development and execution of servers and client software applications.  • Worked with technical teams for performance of necessary upgrades to client and server software.  Environment: MySQL, Python, Django, GitHub, flask, HTML, Oracle, Django, SQLAlchemy, sqlite3, CSS, Excel, SQL Server, HTML, MS Office, SQL, MySQL, Linux, Windows server. Software Developer Coign It - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2011 to December 2013 Responsibilities:    • Used Python to place data into JSON files for testing Django Websites.  • Updated and manipulated content and files by using python scripts.  • Implemented web applications in Flask and spring frameworks following MVC architecture.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Experience in developing/consuming Web Services (REST, SOAP, JSON) and APIs (Service-oriented architectures)  • Used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Participated in requirement gathering and analysis phase of the project in documenting the business requirements, conducting workshops/meetings with various business users.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Used HTML, CSS, JQuery, JSON and JavaScript for front end applications.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Used Bootstrap as a mechanism to manage and organize the html page layout.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Built various graphs for business decision making using Python Matplotlib library.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Manage, collaborate and coordinate the work of an offshore development team.  • Worked on rebranding the existing web pages to clients according to the type of deployment.  • Worked on updating the existing clip board to have the new features as per the client requirements.  • Used many regular expressions to match the pattern with the existing one.  • Skilled in using collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures on MYSQL.  • Analyzed performance test requirements and developed test plans and have done debugging to understand test objective requirements  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  . Education Master's Skills CSS (4 years), Django (2 years), HTML (4 years), MySQL (4 years), Python (4 years) Additional Information Technical Competencies:    • Languages: Python, C, Java, SQL, C++, Perl  • Frameworks: Django, AngularJS, Rest Framework, JQuery, D3.js, web2py, Flask, and CSS  • Web Tools: Node.js, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, JSON, JQuery, REST API's, Java Script, AJAX, XML, AngularJS  • Databases: MongoDB, MySQL, Oracle, PostgreSQL  • Platforms: Linux, Windows  • Tools & IDE: Matlab, Weka, Eclipse, NetBeans, Pycharm, Spyder, PyCharm, Atom, Eclipse, Jupyter Notebook, Visual Studio Code, and Sublime Text  • Python Libraries: Numpy, Scipy, Matpotlib, Scrapy, Nose, and Pillow  • Version Control: Git (GitHub), SVN, CVS  • Application Servers: Apache Tomcat, Puppet, WebLogic, WebSphere  • Web Services: AWS, Rackspace Cloud, Amazon S3    • Operating Systems: Windows, Red hat Linux, MAC OSX  • Protocols: TCP/IP, HTTP/HTTPS, SOAP, SMTP, REST  • Deployment Tools: Jenkins  • Tracking Tools: Bugzilla and JIRA