PYTHON DATA ANALYST <span class="hl">PYTHON</span> DATA ANALYST PYTHON DATA ANALYST - COMCAST • Python developer with near 3 years of experience in Python, Data science, Data Anslysis and Visualization using new emerging tools and technologies under various environments.  • Experience in analyzing data with Python (2.7/3.5) packages like NumPy, Pandas, Matplotlib, SciPy, SK-learn and other Data analytic packages.  • Excellent knowledge and experience in Statistical analysis and all kind of Mathematical concepts of Data analysis.  • Strong technical foundation with in-depth knowledge in Data reporting, Data Design, Data Analysis, Data governance, Data integration and Data quality.  • Experience in working with various Python IDE's using PyCharm, Spyder, Atom, Eclipse, Visual studio code, PyScripter, NetBeans, Sublimetext, Spyder and emacs.  • Excellent knowledge in Data science and Data visualization libraries and packages including Anaconda, NumPy, Pandas, Matplotlib, Jupyter Notebooks, Seaborn.  • Excellent knowledge in Applied Mathematics and Statistics.  • Good knowledge in Machine Learning concepts.  • Good knowledge in GUI programming  • Ability to deal with structured and Unstructured data, Complex Data validation and Data acquisition.  • Experienced with full software development life-cycle (SDLC), architecting scalable Platforms, Object-oriented programming (OOP), database design and agile methodologies.  • Experienced in Object-oriented programming and Class-oriented programing, multi-threading, algorithms, data structures and system programming using python.  • Excellent knowledge in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Good knowledge and Experience in HTML5, CSS3, Java Script.  • Good programming knowledge in Matlab and Octave  • Moderate experience in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, Flask and developed web-based applications on MVC architecture  • Extensive use of python under any Operating system (MacOS, UNIX, LINUX and Windows).  • Ability to learn and adapt quickly to the emerging new technologies and paradigms.  • Good analytical and problem-solving skills and ability to work on own besides being a valuable and contributing team player.  • Excellent Interpersonal and communication skills, efficient time management and organization skills, ability to handle multiple tasks and work well in a team environment. Work Experience PYTHON DATA ANALYST COMCAST August 2018 to Present Environment: Python 2.7 & 3, Pandas, NumPy, Splunk, ServiceNow, JIRA.    • Analyzed business requirements and developed the applications, models, used appropriate algorithms for arriving at the required insights.  • Scrapped data from various sources, cleaned and processed unstructured data to structured data and performed exploratory data analysis using python libraries like Pandas, NumPy, Matplotlib, Seaborn.  • Performed all kind of Data operations on Big Data like Data acquisition, Data preparation and manipulation and Data processing.  • Generated numerous python scripts to automate manual work and generate reports every day.  • Written scrips to perform operations on huge data sets.  • Been working on all formats of data including JSON, CSV, XLS etc.  • Collecting, Cleaning and eliminating raw data from all kinds of APIs and other sources  • Data modeling, Data joining and applying all kind of functions to the data.  • Created numerous dashboards to monitor data by integrating python with tableau.  • Visualizing data was an everyday activity to analyze the regressions. ASSOCIATE DATA ANALYST PRINCIPLE INFO, TX June 2017 to May 2018 Environment: Python2.7 & 3, Matplotlib, NumPy, Pandas, HTML5, CSS, JS, SQL, AGILE, GIT, JSON, jQuery, ATOM, ECLIPSE, Pycharm, Linux, MacOS.  • Analyzed and proceeded complex data using various Data visualization tools and techniques in python.  • Created numerous python modules to analyze huge data.  • Processed huge online data to analyze stock exchange and plot live graphs.  • Used Matplotlib to plot and visualize various forms of data as per the requirement (Bar charts and Candlesticks).  • Worked on data calculations using Python modules like pandas, Numpy.  • Performed data transformation method for rescaling and normalizing variables  • Wrote Python scripts to parse CSV documents and load the data in database.  • Worked with JSON based REST Web services.  • Used GitHub for version control and familiarized with SCRUM Process.  • Created PyUnit test cases for unit testing  • Been a part of a team developing internal web-application Using Python frameworks like Django and Flask.  • Worked on web development tools like HTML5, CSS and JavaScript.  • Worked on various Operating Systems like UNIX, Linux, Windows, and MacOS.  • Worked in agile and waterfall methodologies with high quality deliverables delivered on-time. JR. PYTHON DEVELOPER UAE EXCHANGE May 2015 to November 2015 Environment: Python 2.7, Matplotlib, Pandas, HTML, SQL, Crystal reports, LINUX, MacOS.  • Been part in entire lifecycle of a software. From design phase to testing.  • Played a major role in documenting design requirements including technical specifications.  • Exposed to Data visualization.  • Evaluated and analyzed Data of various currencies across the world.  • Been responsible for troubleshooting issues in the web application.  • Worked with some senior python developers as a team.  • Tested the database using SQL queries.  • With help of senior developer, rewrote the existing python modules to change the format of data.  • Developed UNIX scripts and SQL validation scripts to validate the outputs.    • Improved performance in coding python.  • Learnt basic concepts of HTML.  • Learnt basic concepts of Data analysis in Python. Education MASTER'S DEGREE in Information Technology WILMINGTON UNIVERSITY Skills python (2 years) Additional Information Languages: Python (2.7 & 3.5)  Data visualization Tools: Matplotlib, Numpy, Pandas, SciPy, Seaborn.  Databases: SQL, MySQL  Web technologies: HTML, jQuery, AngularJS, JavaScript, CSS, JSON  Version control: GitHub, SVN, CVS  Protocols: SOAP, REST  Unit testing tools: PyUnit, JUnit.  IDE's: ATOM, PyCharm, PyScripter, Sublime, Eclipse, NetBeans, Emacs.    Operating systems: MacOS, Linux, Windows.    ---Best way to Contact is via e-mail---