Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer Work Experience Python Developer Galaxy I technologies - Scottsdale, AZ August 2016 to June 2017 • Actively involved with OOD in each phase of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) experience in agile software methodology.  • Worked on development and enhancement of automation tools for execution of testing, integration and global application development using Python, shell scripting.  • Developed data structures, RESTful XML web services for handling AJAX requests.  • Actively involved in developing the methods for CRUD in Active Record.  • Used advanced features like pickle in python for serializing and de-serializing a python object structure.  • Developed entire web application using python and Django web framework.  • Developed a portal to manage entities in content management system using flask.  • Used Django API's to access database objects.  • Designed and implemented a dedicated MySQL database server to drive web apps and report on daily progress.  • Designed and developed MySQL stored procedures and shell scripts for data Import/Export operations.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite3 to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  • Created environment specific settings for a new deployment and update the deployment specific conditional checks in code base to use specific checks.  • Implemented and modified various PL/SQL queries and function, cursors and triggers as per client requirement.  • Worked on AJAX framework to transform datasets and data tables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings.  • Involved in designing GUI using web technologies like PHP, HTML, JavaScript, Bootstrap, Angular JS, JQuery, AJAX and implement CSS for fancy appearance.  • Built development environment with JIRA.  • Worked with JSON based REST web services and Amazon Web Services (AWS).  • Involved in development of web services using SOAP architecture.  • Development of python API's to dump the array structures in the processor at the failure point for debugging.  • Performed Unit testing, Integration testing, GUI and web application testing.  • Worked in development of applications in Linux environment and familiar with almost all of its commands. Research Assistant, Python Programmer Marist College - New York, NY October 2014 to May 2016 • Extensively used Object Oriented Design concepts in overall design and development of the system.  • Designed and Developed RESTful web services utilizing Django and Flask framework.  • Involved in building database Model, RESTful APIs and Views utilizing python, in order to build an interactive web application.  • Created entire application using Python, Django and MySQL in Linux Environment.  • Designed and Developed user interface using front-end technologies like HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap and JSON.  • Build SQL queries implementing functions, views, triggers, and tables.  • Involved in writing python scripts and SQL queries to parse the data in XML, JSON formats and store them into database.  • Involved in development of web services using SOAP for sending and receiving data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Created unit test/regression test framework for working with new code.  • Embedded AJAX in UI to update small portions of the web page avoiding the need to reload the entire page.  • Extracted unstructured data from various web sources through web scraping with Beautiful Soup package and performed ETL to utilize extracted data for further analysis.  • Developed applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all of its commands.  • Involved in issue tracking and debugging of the applications monitored on JIRA, Selenium using agile methodology.  • Involved in entire lifecycle of the projects including Designing, Development, Deployment, Testing, Implementation and Support.  • Proactively worked with managers and development staff to meet project goals within expected timelines. Desktop Support Engineer Texxford Technologies - Hyderabad, Telangana September 2013 to June 2014 • Efficiently responded to user requests for service, resolved problems, and developed effective solutions while supporting PC hardware components, desktop operating systems and application software.  • Supporting and troubleshooting windows servers including Active Directory, DNS, and DHCP.  • Completed all necessary documentation including creating and updating inventory records, hardware problem records, user documentation and status reports.  • Assisted all levels of management in troubleshooting, maintenance, monitoring and support of Enterprise infrastructure including network connectivity problems such as DNS, LAN/WAN, VPN, TCP/IP, and Firewalls etc.  • Assisted in receiving, configuring, deploying of new PC's, printers, and other computing equipment  • Schedule, deploy and monitor operating system and application security patches/updates to all systems Education Master of Science in Information Systems Management Marist College - New York, NY September 2014 to May 2016 Bachelor of Science in Computer Science & Engineering Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University - Hyderabad, Telangana September 2009 to May 2013 Certification in Hacking & Information Security IIT Kharagpur - Hyderabad, Telangana 2013 Certification in Web Component Development NIIT - Hyderabad, Telangana 2012 Skills AJAX (2 years), CSS (2 years), DJANGO (2 years), JAVASCRIPT (2 years), JSON (2 years) Links http://Linkedin.com/in/Abhishek-Varanasi Additional Information • Over 3 years of experience in Information Technology industry and proficiency in design & development of applications using Python, Java, Django, Flask, Angular JS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Good experience in developing web applications implementing Model-View-Control/Template architecture using Django and Flask web application frameworks.  • Hands-on experience on python collections and Multi-Threading.  • Good Experience of web services with protocols SOAP and REST.  • Experience in using various databases such as MySQL, PL/SQL, SQLite3, PostgreSQL and Oracle.  • Hands-on experience in with APIs for various tasks such as accessing database objects, data extraction, third-party API integration, etc.  • Thorough knowledge of various different front-end tools like HTML, CSS, PHP, JavaScript, XML, Bootstrap, JQuery and AJAX.  • Experience with version control ideally GIT and SVN.  • Proven ability in working with Shell and Bash scripting for designing automation framework.  • Significant knowledge of the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), Agile and Waterfall Methodologies.  • Proficiency in working of handling monitoring tools, desktop ticketing systems and identifying irregularities and taking effective measure to mend the problems.  • Great understanding and experience with Network connectivity and protocol issues in TCP/IP, LAN, WAN, VPN, DNS, Firewalls, etc.  • Progressive experience with HTTP, LDAP, Web Services, Apache/Tomcat and Linux operating systems.  • Hands on experience in testing, debugging and systems maintenance.  • Experience with working in different operating systems such as Windows XP/7/8/10, Macintosh, UNIX and Linux.  • Excellent analytical and problem solving skills with efficient time management and result oriented attitude.  • Self-determined to learn and improve by committed to tasks to provide good results through utilizing diversified skills.    Technical Skills  • Programming Python, Java, PL/SQL  • Web PHP, HTML5, JSON, XML, CSS, JQuery  • Scripting JavaScript, Shell, Bash, AJAX  • Frameworks Django, Flask, Angular JS  • Databases MySQL, PL/SQL, Oracle  • Servers XAMP, Apache Tomcat, HTTP Server  • IDE Tools PyCharm, Visual Studio    • Networking Wireshark/TCP View packet analysis,  DNS Servers, mail server and Firewalls  • Protocols DNS, DHCP, TCP/IP, HTTP, SSL, UDP, FTP  • Architectures OSI Model, SOA, OSI, REST, SOAP  • Applications Microsoft Office (Including Visio),  Adobe Tools (Photoshop, Illustrator, Premier Pro)    • Operating Systems Windows XP, Vista, 7, 8;  Linux including Ubuntu, CentOS, and Kali; Macintosh