Job Seeker Fairfield, IA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Maharishi University of Management 2018 to Present 2018): Designed and developed a shopping web application capable of handling product Inventory, customer registration, and ordering. Technologies Used: Java/J2EE. CSS, Spring Boot, Angular, Netflix Eureka, MySQL, Git, Maven, Ajax, JSON, JavaScript, JQuery, Restful Web Service, XML, Spring Tool Suite, Tomcat, Factory Maharishi University of Management 2018 to Present Designed and developed a Tweets parser and analyzer application to identify dominant topics of tweets for a given time. Technologies Used: Python, Apache Kafka, PySpark, Twitter API, Flask, Charts.js, Spark Streaming, Hadoop, Cloudera, Anaconda, Linux Python Software Developer PROGINEER TECH COMPANY, Ramallah, Palestine 2014 to 2018 Made key contributions to back-end software development and implementation.    Tasks Performed:  • Produced clean, efficient code in Python, C and C++ based on specifications.  • Tested and deployed programs and systems.  • Conducted troubleshooting, debugging and upgrading of existing software.  • Successfully integrated software components and third-party programs.  Achievements:  • Successfully developed two major projects for client PDF Solutions in San Jose, CA, to improve quality of computer chip manufacturing.  • Ensured timely completion of complex projects despite challenging deadlines.  • Contributed to development of organizational flow software enabling teams to manage multiple tasks, oversee scheduling, and set time limits.  • Recommended and executed improvements which resulted in a 65% increase in performance.  Technologies Used: Python, C++, C, Informix, Cassandra CQL, PyCharm, SVN, GIT, Linux Redhat, Kafka, Spark Full Stack Web Developer ENDEAVORS COMPANY, Nablus, Palestine 2014 to 2014 Tasks Performed:  • Designed, built and maintained website and software applications.  • Oversaw and conducted Website updates.  • Edited, wrote, and designed website content.  • Evaluated code to ensure it met industry standards.  • Determined user needs by analyzing technical requirements.  Achievements:  • Application attracted Walmart as a customer which lead to significant increase in sales for CEC company of over 200%.  Technologies Used: PHP, SOA (SOAP & REST Web Services), CakePHP Framework, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, MySQL, PHP Storm, SVN, Linux Ubuntu Education Master of Science in Computer Science in distance education Maharishi University of Management - Fairfield, IA December 2020 Bachelor of Science in Telecommunication Engineering in Telecommunication Engineering Najah National University Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/dmualla