Capstone Internship Capstone Internship Data enthusiast seeking a full time data analyst job Chicago, IL 4+ years of professional experience using SQL, Python. Data Enthusiast and a highly analytical individual with a multidisciplinary background spanning Business Analytics, Statistics, Software and Database development. Proficient in drawing conclusions based on data and in quick grasping of new technical concepts and utilizing the same in a productive manner. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Capstone Internship 4C HEALTH SOLUTIONS - Chicago, IL September 2018 to December 2018 • Optimized and transformed 11 million rows of semi-structured claims data using distribution overlap co-efficient of 'amount paid' tailored for each provider. This improves the quality of input data for the existing FICO scoring model, thereby providing better fraud detection.  • Applied behavioral profiling analytics to develop patterns that may represent an individual's typical episode costs.  • Conducted community detection on pharmacy claims data to cluster medicines used for different medical conditions. Python Software Developer ZEOMEGA INC - Bengaluru, Karnataka February 2015 to June 2017 • Software development with Python and expertise in front end design using Javascript and HTML.  • Worked on Rules Engine of the healthcare software and building it as a separate product and providing it as a service.  • Created API and JSON schema payloads for the rule engine to process the rules.  • Reduced the coding compliance errors in python by 40% by fixing coding issues for historical code  • Assisting in lifecycle application development and in designing, coding and debugging applications.  • Responsible to increase test case coverage to over 90% by writing unit test cases for the modules.  • Wrote automated scripts to perform repetitive jobs for continuous integration and deployment of product modules for testing. Database Developer ZEOMEGA INC - Bengaluru, Karnataka October 2013 to February 2015 • Design, development and testing experience in database domain with MSSQL and Oracle PL/SQL.  • Developed Physical data models and created DDL, DML scripts to create database schema and database objects.  • Created and Optimized Stored Procedures and User-Defined Function for product development and customizations as per client  specifications.  • Well versed with the concepts of Replication, Schema Comparison and Data Comparison, Clustering.  • Actively involved with business analysts in gathering requirements and developing product as per the specifications.  • Generated periodic reports based on the statistical analysis of the data from various time frames and division using SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS). Education Master of Science in Business Analytics in Advanced Statistics UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS AT CHICAGO - Chicago, IL August 2017 to December 2018 Bachelor of Computer Science and Engineering in Computer Science and Engineering VISVESWARAYYA TECHNOLOGICAL UNIVERSITY - Bengaluru, Karnataka September 2009 to June 2013 Skills Boosting (Less than 1 year), Clustering. (1 year), Decision trees (Less than 1 year), Python (3 years), Sql. (4 years), R (2 years), SQL, Excel, Business Intelligence Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Programming Languages: Python, R, SQL  Predictive Analytics: Decision Trees, Logistic Regression, K Nearest Neighbors (k-NN), Neural Networks, Support Vector Machines, Random Forests, Bagging, Boosting, Clustering- hierarchical, K-means  Tools: Tableau, Gephi, Rapid Miner, MS Office, Jira, GitHub, Jenkins, Eclipse, R Studio, VMWare, Cloudera, Jupyter  Big Data: Hadoop, Hive, NoSQL, Spark