Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer January 2017 to January 2018 House Prices Prediction  ? Machine Learning project that includes NumPy, ? Predicts property's sale price based on a given  Pandas, Matplotlib, Scikit-Learn packages, as variety of attributes with predictive modeling and  well as Linear Regression model. data processing algorithms.    Iris Flower Recognition  ? Unsupervised classification Machine Learning ? Uses Scikit-Learn linear model package to  project that classifies the species of given iris construct an algorithm with a Logistic Regression  flowers based on various measurements. model.    Credit Card Fraud Detection  ? Unsupervised classification Machine Learning ? Uses anomaly detection processes such as  project that detects abnormal credit card IsolationForest and LocalOutlierFactor to build  transactions. optimal algorithm for fraud detection.    Movie Search App  ? Interactive Python application that returns ? Focused on writing reliable code through error  accurate film information such as title, rating, handling, and utilizing packages such as requests  and duration from IMDB. and collections to retrieve API.    Weather App  ? Primarily focused on HTTP screen scraping and ? Application created within a Virtual Environment that  utilizing external Python packages, such as provides user with a detailed weather forecast when  BeautifulSoup and Requests. given an area/location.    Journal App  ? Interactive Python application that allows users ? Works with File I/O, as well as manages and  to create journal entries, which are then saved combines file path segments in a platform  and automatically dated. independent way.    Mock Instagram Database  ? Database created with MySQL using tables ? The main purpose is to detect bots and analyze  along with randomly generated user data, overall user activity through table id relationships  including usernames, comments, and likes. and table joins. Education Computer Science MIT 2018 Certifications/Licenses Computer Science Present Additional Information Python Machine Learning  ? Built-in types and operators, functions and scopes, ? Python libraries: Scikit-Learn, NumPy, Pandas,  comprehensions and generators, modules and Matplotlib.  packages, classes and OOP, operator overloading, ? Data preparation and handling: data cleaning,  exception handling. handling text and categorical attributes, custom  ? Linked lists, trees, graphs, searching and sorting transformers, feature scaling, transformation  algorithms. pipelines.  ? Working with Virtual Environments and PyCharm. ? Machine Learning models and model evaluation.