Python / UI Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> / UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python / UI Developer - EMC DELL Conshohocken, PA • 5 Years of professional experience in all phases of software development life cycle including requirements analysis and Debugging, Applications design, Development, Integration, Maintenance, Installation, Implementation, Testing of various client/server, N-tier and web applications.  • Good experience in building cross browser compatibility applications using HTML5 and CSS3.  • Experienced as a Web Developer in developing web applications using JavaScript, HTML, CSS, JSP, REST, JSON, AngularJS, Node.js, Backbone, JQuery, WCAG, and Ajax.  • Designed the table less web applications using CSS (2.1/3) and with the help of tags as per W3C standards.  • Used JavaScript for custom client-side validation.  • Wrote application level code to perform client side validation using JQUERY and JavaScript.  • Used JQuery to develop user interface widgets.  • Developed single page applications using Angular JS.  • Worked with Angular JS web apps.  • Worked with Backbone.js JavaScript library with a REST full JSON interface.  • Used Bootstrap with HTML, CSS, and JavaScript framework for developing responsive websites.  • Worked with Bootstrap for developing mobile-first websites.  • Involved in several web application development projects that required Responsive Web Design  • Involved in write application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Designed and developed the presentation layer which includes the development of standards-browser compliant - user interactive web pages using CSS, JSTL tag libraries with Client side validation and unit testing.  • Integrated with back end code (PHP) for highly interactive AJAX based applications.  • Object oriented Design and MVC Experience  • Experience in all phase of SDLC like Requirement Analysis, Implementation, Maintenance, and extensive experience with Agile and SCRUM.  • Well-versed in Object Oriented Programming (OOP) with JavaScript.  • Very good experience in Document Object Model (DOM) and DOM Functions.  • Experience of working on CSS Preprocessors like LESS and SASS along with JavaScript task runners like GruntJS.  • Good experience in development of Database Components (Tables, Views, Stored Procedures, queries constraints) in Oracle.  • Worked on web applications that required cross browser compatibilities like Chrome, Safari, Firefox, Internet Explorer and Opera.  • Strong Experience in developing the application using framework Spring frameworks.  • Worked with the OAUTH tokens and REST web service in Android.  • Experienced in using UI editors like Sublime Text Editor, Eclipse, and Aptana Studio.  • Creative Knowledge in art creation, modification and conversion Logos, print media, web page and software interface design.  • Experience in taking performance optimization measures for website/web applications to reduce the response times and hence enhancing the end user experience.    • Prepared test case scenarios and internal documentation for validation and reporting.  • Worked closely with the project management and marketing team to completely define specifications to help ensure project acceptance.  • Some of the attributes that would describe me would be Team player, Quick learner, Self-Motivated and Strong interest in Front End Development. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python / UI Developer EMC DELL - Conshohocken, PA June 2016 to Present Project Description: Our application collects the data from the different network servers and stores the data in ordered manner where the end user clearly understands the data in PDF/Excel formats.    The python application which collects the data from the EMC network servers and convert the data in JSON format and stores the JSON data in a ZIP file. When end user uploads the zip file, our application shows up the available collections where the end user selects the required data which results the selected data will be generated in PDF or EXCEL format.    Responsibilities:  • Analyzed system requirements specifications and also in client interaction during requirements specifications.  • Participated in the complete SDLC process.  • Developed user interface using CSS, HTML, Ajax, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Wrote Python modules to extract/load asset data from the MySQL source database.  • Designed and implemented a dedicated MYSQL database server to drive the web apps and report on daily progress.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Used Flask framework for application development.  • Created entire application using Python, Flask, MySQL and Linux.    • Enhanced existing automated solutions, such as the Inquiry Tool for automated Asset Department reporting and added new features and fixed bugs.  • Worked with Node.js which is responsible for writing server-side web application logic in JavaScript  • Worked in MySQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization and renormalization.  • Played a key role in a development wide transition from Subversion to Git, which resulted in an increase in efficiency for the development community.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git,Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, OracleDB, PostgreSQL, and VMWare API calls.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Work with team of developers on Python applications for RISK management.  • Special skills in developing user friendly, simple yet effective web based applications.  • Deployed the project into Heroku using GIT version control system.  • Used advanced packages like Mock, patch and beautifulsoup (b4) to perform unit testing.  • Skilled in using collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  • Involved in Unit testing and Integration testing.  Environment: Python 2.7, Python 3.X, Django 1.4, Jenkins, Couchdb, MySQL, Linux, HTML, CSS, JQuery, JavaScript, Apache, Linux, Git. Front-end Developer Fidelity Investments - Morrisville, NC August 2015 to May 2016 Description:  Fidelity Investments is an American Multinational financial services corporation, it is the second largest mutual fund and financial services in the world. Fidelity manages a large family of mutual funds, provides fund distribution and investment advice services as well as providing discount brokerage services, retirement services, wealth management, securities execution and clearance, life insurance and a number of other services.    Project Description: Learning Gateway  Learning Gateway is a Learning Portal which redirects users to different applications. The application services training programs. It contains various roles like Learner, Facilitator, Author, Observer and Admin roles. Each role has its own features and retractions. Learning Gateway is a LMS tool (Learning Management System) developed by Fidelity to enable and record all users diverted from the Learning Gateway with their indicative roles to learn, Facilitate the learning and record the performance to indicate the development of a Learner in the Fidelity System. This Product enables the learners to achieve the certification as well as the performance score needed to validate the certification.    Responsibilities & Responsibilities:  • Designed dynamic and multi-browser compatible pages using HTML, CSS, JQuery, AJAX and JavaScript.  • Created web pages using HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Creating cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant CSS-based page layouts.  • Involved with bug fixing on functionality, performance and designing issues with JavaScript and JQuery.    • Wrote JQUERY function while implementing various UI Screens across the whole web application (both consumer facing as well as internal application).  • Developing XML classes for loading the data from XML files deployed at the server.  • Worked on AngularJS and also on JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3 in the front end development  • Using the Bootstrap will be dividing the component's using the grid layout system.  • Redesigned user interface HTML frameworks with Bootstrap and CSS styling.  • Undertaken development for a cross-platform Java Script based solution using Angular JS, bootstrap and SASS.  • Responsive Web Design (RWD) and development, application development using HTML, JavaScript, Jquery and Bootstrap.  • Developed next generation Homepage for the company website which is highly compactable for all the browsers.  • Used AJAX and JSON to make asynchronous calls to the project server to fetch data on the fly.  • Designed XML files for maintaining contents like video, images and audio and display them in flash application.  • Using the MVC pattern is make sure that user interacts with view, View interacts with the controller.  • Used SVN for version control and QC for defect tracking.  • Involved in gathering business requirements finalizing the project scope discussion for the application.  • Worked on development and interacting with offshore, different vendors and component teams to resolve the issues using design, development and testing.  • Stash version control system has been used to check-in and checkout the developed artifacts. The version control system has been integrated with Eclipse IDE.  • Worked with the repository of the Git and GitHub.  • Worked with API services with Google Maps, YouTube and Amazon.  • Used Spring Web MVC framework for the applying MVC Implementation to the web application.  • Interfaced with third-party vendors to customize UI/UX solutions for web verticals.  • Responsible for making all the content available for any type of resolutions.  • Controller provides with the data from the model.  • I use controllers and views and their interaction with the scope and model should be revisited and clarified.    Environment: HTML4/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, Stylus, Blue UI, Require JS, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, Bootstrap, Phone gap, Photoshop, Json responses, Visual Studio 2013, Angular Js. UI Developer American Express - Phoenix, AZ May 2014 to July 2015 Responsibilities:  • Developed dynamic and browser compatible pages using HTML5, CSS3, AngularJS, JQuery and JavaScript.  • Developed CSS based page layouts that are cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant.  • Used JQuery for basic animation and end user screen customization purposes  • Designed and developed CSS pre-processors (LESS).  • Used CSS selectors for condition based styling and pseudo-classes to add some special effects to selectors.  • Worked on Angular JS which combines web applications with Model View Controller capability to make  Development and testing of code efficient.  • Worked on JQuery mobile for designing user interfaces for web applications.  • Proficiency in implementing the design to meet web standards (W3C), SEO and worked on various browsers like IE 6/7/8, Firefox 3.0/3.1, Chrome, and Opera for cross-browser implementation  • Worked on AngularJS and also on JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3 in the front end development  • Designed web pages using with HTML, DHTML, XHTML, XSL, XSLT, CSS and jQuery based on the W3C and ADA.  • Design User Interface for the project using HTML, CSS, and Flash  • Used the responsive utilities of the Bootstrap frameworks to facilitate the design displaying properly on Different devices.  • Responsible for making responsive web pages using twitter bootstrap and media queries.  • Developed creative intuitive user interfaces that address business and end-user needs, while considering the technical, physical and temporal constraints of the users.  • Strong communication, analytical and interpersonal skills working within cross-functional teams.  • Worked on cross browser compatibility issues and fix the bugs pertaining to various browsers.    Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Dreamweaver CS5, AJAX, JSON, ECLIPSE, MS Office and SVN, Web Services, YUI and SQL Server 2008. Web Developer Hucon Solutions - Hyderabad, ANDHRA PRADESH, IN March 2012 to July 2013 Responsibilities:  ? Closely worked with business system analyst to understand the requirements to ensure that right set of UI modules been built.  ? Developed all the UI pages using HTML, XUL, DHTML, XSL/XSLT, XHTML, DOM, CSS, JSON, JavaScript, JQuery and Ajax.  ? Created XHTML Pages with CSS and the Box Model.  ? Using advanced level of JQUERY, AJAX, JavaScript, CSS and pure CSS layouts.  ? Used JQuery core library functions for the logical implementation part at client side for all the applications.  ? Used JQuery to traverse through a DOM tree and manipulated the nodes in the tree.  ? Used JQuery plug-ins for Drag-and-Drop, Widgets, Menus, User Interface and Forms.  ? Involved in developing HTML and JavaScript for client side presentation and, data validation on the client side with in the forms.  ? Developed Date Time Picker using Object Oriented JavaScript extensively.  ? Debug the application using Firebug to traverse the documents and manipulated the Nodes using DOM and DOM Functions.  ? Involved in developing XUL, HTML, and JavaScript for client side presentation and, data validation on the client side with in the forms.  ? Involved in writing application level code to perform client side validation using JQUERY and JavaScript.  ? Developed SQL Queries to interact with Oracle database.  ? Maintain, enhance, and recommend solutions that best suit business and technology needs from UI standpoint.  ? Successfully executed all the test cases and fixed any bugs/issues identified during the test cycles.    Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Dreamweaver, AJAX, JSON, MS Office, PL/SQL and SVN. Education Bachelors in Computer Science Engineering in Computer Science Engineering Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University - Hyderabad, ANDHRA PRADESH, IN Skills Ajax (4 years), HTML (4 years), JavaScript (4 years), JQuery. (4 years), JSON (4 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:    Web Technologies HTML/HTML5,CSS2/CSS3,DHTML,XML,XHTML,XSLT, JavaScript, AJAX, JQuery, JSON,Angular.js, Phone gap and SASS.  JavaScript Libraries ExtJS2.0/1.0, Backbone.js 0.9.2 , Require.js, Node.js, Angular.js  IDE's and Tools Eclipse IDE, NetBean, Dreamweaver, Firebug, Developer Tools, EditPlus, JSfiddle, Webstrom, Tatastrom, Sublime text  Development Tools Adobe Photoshop CS5, Google Ad Words, Yahoo Search Marketing(spring tool suite)  Wire Frame Tools(wire frame) Adobe Illustrator CS3  Debugging Tools Firebug, BugZilla, explorer  Database PL/SQL(oracle), MySQL, MSSQL  Operating System Windows 98/2000/XP/Vista/7/8, MAC OS X