RPA Developer (Blue Prism) RPA <span class="hl">Developer</span> (Blue Prism) RPA Developer (Blue Prism) - GoGo LLC Elk Grove Village, IL • Over a 5 years of experience in IT industry with 2+ years of experience in RPA Development. Have strong hands-on experience with Blue prism, UI Path and experience with OCR Tools.  • Hands on experience in building Blue Prism Processes and Business Objects for various business systems robots.  • Experience of using Python modules like NumPy, Matplotlib, Pickle, Pandas, PySide, SciPy, wxPython, PyTables, PyQt etc, for generating complex graphical data, creation of histograms, etc.  • Deigned developed and tested Bots for tasks using Blue Prism.  • Skilled in Object-Oriented Design and Programming using Python.  • Working knowledge of Blue Prism for developing front office and back office robots.  • Hands on experience in managing robot's workloads using Blue Prism Work Queues.  • Involved with Blue Prism Object Recorder to manage and execute Windows controls as a background process.  • Used Python, Django, CSS, HTML, and jQuery, XML, AJAX and JSON for developing web applications.  • Worked closely with Process SME's to prepare Process Definition Document (PDD) & Solution Design Document (SDD) and educated SME's to work with Bots in production.  • Responsible for the maintaining the design documents, Technical Design documents on Automation.  • Extensive experience in writing complex stored Procedures, Triggers, Functions, Views, Indexes and Joins on SQL Server and Oracle.  • Delivery of projects for identified process improvements using RPA methodologies.  • Performed tool evaluation and feasibility to help in selecting suitable Automation tool for RPA implementation.  • Implemented Blue Prism User authentication by defining user roles, creating users and setting password.  • Hands on experience with JavaScript, VBScript, Python, XML components and DHTML.  • Designed and developed the clients project with Robotics automation tool.  • Involved in the designing solutions utilizing RPA (Robotic Process Automation) software, maintain technical responsibility for project delivery as the technical resource on a project.  • Experience with different version controls like Team Foundation Server (TFS), GitHub.  • Involved in working with methodologies like Waterfall and Agile Methodologies - Scrum. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience RPA Developer (Blue Prism) GoGo LLC - Chicago, IL January 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Gathering detailed requirements from client for business requirements.  • Understanding the SDD involved in creating ODI's (Object Designed Instructions) and PDI's (Process Designed Instructions).  • Fetching the input data from the various Sources like reading the data from Outlook, Excel and PDF files into the Blue prism.  • Involved in Robotic Process Automation (RPA) from requirements gathering, solution designing, coding, testing, debugging, documentation and implementation on different tools like Blue prism, Automation Anywhere.  • Interacted with a Web, Window, Citrix and Mainframe based applications.  • Using MS- Excel VBO object to perform operations in excel sheet while taking excel sheet data as input.  • Well Versed with Object Studio, Process Studio, Control Room and Release BP Files.  • Experience on spying elements on mainframe application while automating a custodian form.  • Provided End to End to solution for Business process using Robotic Process Automation.  • Solid Design, Coding, Unit testing, UAT (User Acceptance Testing) and maintaining the RPA's (Robot's).  • Worked on getting all the remote machines errors and information to the main system through the Blue Prism.  • Involved in deployment of automation in users environment.  • Worked on task migration process from development to production systems through Control room.  • Helped on scheduling the night running RPA tasks through Control room.  • Worked on advanced Blue Prism technology for Web Service which has reduced 50% development & maintenance effort.  • Identifying and debugging the errors using Error Handlers.  Environment: Blue Prism V5.23 and V6, Web Services, C# .NET, MS Excel, PDF, MS SQL Server 2014. Blue Prism Developer LexisNexis - Alpharetta, GA March 2016 to November 2016 Responsibilities:  • Worked on Robotic Process Automation using Blue Prism.  • Preparing demos based on the automation performed and showcase the same to potential internal/external customers.  • Identified opportunity to automate manual tasks using Robotics Process Automation (RPA) technology and established Commercial-wide RPA program to deliver the first software bot in production.  • Creating solution on process automation for different Business Applications (Windows based, Browser based, Java and Mainframe).  • Experienced in building Blue Prism Processes and Business Objects for various business systems.  • Implemented Blue Prism User authentication by defining user roles, creating users and setting password policies.  • Executed SQL Queries to check the data table updates after test execution using MySQL.  • Experience in staging and deploying the automation solution into test and live environments and efficiently handled monitoring and troubleshooting the Blue Prism environment through Control room.  • Provided technical direction on design considerations for automatable processes and designed the solution.  • Maintained and the several RPA bots as batch processes on daily basis and ensure quality and high performance to the internal and vendor applications of the organization.  • Problem solving issues that arises in day to day running of robotic processes and providing timely responses and solutions as required.  • Involved in Process Management, Defining, Designing, Development and Testing.  Environment: Blue Prim, SQL Server 2014, XML, HTML, Java Script, CSS, and My SQL. Python Developer Selectsys Pvt. Ltd - Hyderabad, Telangana July 2014 to August 2015 Responsibilities:  • Created or identified state-of-the-art computational mechanics algorithms that extend modeling capabilities, implement as software suitable for high-performance computers, and document their verification.  • Wrote script or program to automate analysis tools to streamlining the evaluation of initial data for integrity.  • Using Python package created an interface automate import and exporting drawing and extracting standard data for manufacturing purpose.  • Built application and program to streamline the cavity development and process and generate documentation from the design and via versa.  • Used Python Flask framework to build modular & maintainable applications.  • Automated data movements using Python scripts. Involved in splitting, validating and processing of files.  • Created core Python API which will be using among multiple modules.  • Participated in developing web application UI using HTML, CSS, JavaScript.  • Uploaded statistics to MySQL for analysis and logging.  • Developed complex SQL queries for testing the database functionality.  • Used UNIX server for application deployment and configuration.  • Wrote shell scripting for automation.  • Designed database schema design and defined relationships between tables.  • Provided technical assistance for maintenance, integration and testing of software solutions during development and release processes.  • Created unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  Environment: Python, CAD, UNIX, MySql, Pandas, Flask, OpenNLP, StanfordNLP, CSS, JavaScript, XML, Matlab. Jr. Python Developer Beckon Dickinson - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2012 to March 2014 Responsibilities:  • Performed design, involved in code reviews and wrote unit tests in python.  • Worked on tuples, dictionaries, object oriented concepts based inheritance features for making algorithms.  • Solving production support issues (such as bug fixes, queries etc)  • Prepared documentation for the generated reports.  • Developed GUI using Python and Django for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of python code using a web browser.  • Developed the customer complaints application using Django Framework, which includes Python code. Involved in development of main modules like CSV import, bulk content upload.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an iterative web based solution.  • Used Git as a version-controlling tool to collaborate and coordinate with the team members.  • Participated in the development of application architecture and blueprints to define application components, platforms, interfaces and development tools.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Performed data analysis, manipulation and reporting using pivot tables and advanced functions in MS excel.  Environment: Python 2.7, .NET, PyQuery, MVW, HTML5, Shell Scripting, JSON, Apache Web Server, SQL, UNIX, Windows, and python libraries. Education Master's Skills SQL (4 years), .NET (2 years), DATABASE (2 years), PYTHON (2 years), UNIX (2 years) Additional Information Technical skills:  Programming Languages C, C++, XML, JSON, .Net, Python  Frameworks and Technologies NET Framework, C#, ASP.NET, ASP.NET ADO.NET, LINQ, Entity Framework, RESTful Web Services, jQuery, HTML5, Django.  Web Technologies Java Script, VB Script, XML, HTML, DHTML, AJAX, XSL, REST, SOAP.  Database Oracle 8i/9i, DB2, MS-Access, MS-SQLServer, Python  Operating Systems Windows-2000/98/XP/Win7/10, MS-DOS, Unix/Linux.  SDLC Agile, Waterfall.  RPA Tools UI Path, Blue prism.  RPA Technologies  Including Blue prism, UI path, Automation tools like OCR, Web Recorder, Email Automation, Error Handling, Image Recognition, Window Action, Object Cloning Meta Bot.    Data Access SQL, XML, Stored Procedures.