Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - JP Morgan Chase Houston, TX • 6 years of IT experience in design, development, testing, maintenance and documentation of Enterprise applications in Python, Java, and PHP.  • Good experience in Python in creating scalable and robust applications along with other technologies (D3, Angular, and Node JS).  • Experienced in Python based MVC frameworks - Django, Flask.  • Good knowledge in Python coding and JSON.  • Skillful experience in Python by developing software's using new tools, libraries used: libraries- Beautiful Soup, numpy, Scipy, PySide, python-twitter, matplotlib, Pickle, Pandas data-frame, urllib2, MySQL dB for database connectivity) to improvise software development process.  • Mastering in implementing MVC architecture using Django for web based applications in OOP concepts like Multi-Threading, Exception Handling and Collections.  • Proficient in developing Web Services (SOAP, RESTful) in Python using XML, JSON.  • Solid understanding in Design Patterns, MVC, Python Algorithms, Python Data Structures.  • Experience in design and development HTML5, CSS3, and (Twitter) Bootstrap.  • Good knowledge in NoSQL platform, such as MongoDB, and Couch base.  • Experienced in WAMP and LAMP Architecture.  • Extensive use of Linux (Ubuntu),SSH, Flask/Django  • Good understanding on Bit Bucket and GIT version control system.  • Strong knowledge with REST API development.  • Experience with Agile and SDLC methodologies.  • Good knowledge in IDE - Visual Studio, Eclipse, PyCharm.  • A motivated self-starter and well communicated team member.  • Good written and communication skills. Poses capability to interact very closely with wide range of audience such as Engineers, Scientists, Health professionals, Scientists, Professors, Clients, and Vendors. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer JP Morgan Chase - Houston, TX July 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in design analysis, integration and deployment.  • Participating in discussions with business/stakeholders and clients for gathering requirements.  • Communicating with the dev-ops team for the release activities.  • Develop Interactive front end to visualize data from backend and represent in graphical manner for better understanding.  • Experience in developing interactive Tableau reports and Dashboards using various visualizations like Chart-Box, Heat Maps, Tree Maps, Bubble Charts, Line diagrams, Bar Graphs, Geographic Visualizations  • Key role as a Tableau developer was analyzing Risk Appetite and CCAR data and building Tableau reports.  • Using Tableau Desktop 10X as a front-end BI tool to design and develop various interactive Workbooks, Dashboards, Stories and parameters based calculations.  • In-depth knowledge on Tableau Desktop, Tableau Reader and Tableau Server.  • Mastered ability to design and deploy rich Graphic visualizations with Drill Down menu option and Parameterization.  • Implement views using Context Filters to improve performance of Tableau Reports.  • Built various views using Sorting, Grouping, Dimension Hierarchies, Highlight Actions, Filters, Quick Filters, Actions, and Quick Table Calculations.  • Create different charts using Reference Lines, Trend Lines, and Forecasting in Tableau.  • Develop Interactive Dashboards by using actions, quick filters and parameter.  • Worked in conjunction with the other team members as well as client in the gathering of business requirement for developing reports.  • End to end experience in designing and deploying data visualizations using Tableau.  • Deployed the reports and Scheduled Reports for the use of end users and customers.  • Extract relevant information from large amount of Data to help automate for self-monitoring, self-diagnosing, self-correcting solutions and optimize key processes  • Worked on data profiling and data validation to ensure the accuracy of the data.  • Designed the logical model using Erwin data model tool and developed the model physically by implementing and creating the datasets for the model with the raw data provided.  • Used Python for checking the dependencies between different datasets/modules.  • Gathering the data from Impala tables and Everest Data store using the Abacus studio and validating these data for the purpose of Reporting.  • Used Python for converting the Parquet files to CSV files and vice versa for creating the Kafka messages to give trigger for the calculators.  • Used Python to create the tableau Extract API which creates the Data extracts (tde files) from external data sources like csv files, SQL, Excel.  • Used different python libraries like SciPy, NumPy, and Pandas to create models for predictive analysis. Python Developer Equifax - Charleston, SC March 2017 to June 2018 Responsibilities:  • Used UML Rational Rose to develop Use-case, Class and Object diagrams for OOA/OOD techniques.  • Built database Model, Views and API's using Python for interactive web based solutions.  • Placed data into JSON files using Python to test Django websites.  • Used Python scripts to update the content in database and manipulate files.  • Developed web based application using Django framework with python concepts.  • Generated Python Django forms to maintain the record of online users.  • Used Django API's to access the database.  • Involved in Python OOP code for quality, logging, monitoring, and debugging code optimization.  • Developed tools to automate some base tasks using Python, Shell scripting and XML.  • Created Unit test/ regression test framework for working/new code.  • Used PyQt to implement GUI for the user to create, modify and view reports based on client data.  • Installed and maintained web servers Tomcat and Apache HTTP in UNIX.  • Developed efficient Angular.js for client web based application.  • Working in team of Architects and Developers to build and deploy Python Flask Peewee Linux AWS.  • Responsible for designing, developing, testing, deploying and maintaining the web application.  • Designed and developed the UI for the website with HTML, XHTML, CSS, Java Script and AJAX.  • Involved in working with Python OpenStack API's.  • Design, develop, and deploy engaging web applications using Python.  • Develop applications that use MongoDB database, and pymongo.  • Wrote Python code embedded with JSON and XML to produce HTTP GET request, parsing HTML data from websites.  • Wrote Python code to simplify lists in Python with list comprehension and Python OOP. Worked with POSTMAN for API testing. Developed REST APIs, and created User Model for application.  • Developed a complete front-end application with Bootstrap.  • Developed remote integration with third party platforms by using RESTful web services.    Environments: Python, AWS, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, Flask, Java script, MongoDB, Linux, APIs, Git. sales and marketing data Comcast - Philadelphia, PA November 2015 to February 2016 Philadelphia, PA Nov 2015 to Feb 2016  Application/Software Development    Responsibilities:  • Involved in Requirement study, Analysis and Design.  • Designed and developed JScript, GUI for user interface with various Server Controls (textbox, labels, data grid, data list, validations controls).  • Developed Custom User Controls to reduce the Complexity in User Interface Coding and provide better look and feel.  • Used Java Script for validating client side data entry screens.  • Used CSS (Cascading Style Sheets) for maintaining appearance of Web Pages.  • Developed a desktop based application in C# .NET to keep record of customer, production, sales and marketing data. MS SQL Server used as database to store records.  • Designed and developed logical and physical database models. Designed logical database model (Entity- relationship diagram) using ER Studio.  • Analyzed existing Java-based application to identify weakness and opportunities for improvements, to outline system modification requirements, and to develop recommendations towards the development of new codes and reuse of existing codes.  • Responsible for providing support and analysis to the existing MS SQL server. Created Database objects like Stored Procedures, Triggers, Views, and Rules etc. Created tables and provide constraints and user defined rules in the database.  • Wrote code using SQL Programming to perform database tasks such as inserts, updates, joins, and deletes in order to keep updated the existing ERP system in timely manner.  • Provided functional recommendations, training, and advanced documentation and data analysis support to project implementation teams throughout SDLC process such as planning, development and integration.    Environments/Tools used: SQL Server 2012, SQL/T-SQL, Microsoft Visual Studio 2005, .NET Framework 3.5. Application/Software Developer Wissen InfoTech - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2014 to August 2015 Responsibilities:  • Used HTML and CSS for UI Design, JavaScript for system functionality for server side scripting, MySQL Database.  • Extensive JavaScript functions for supporting proper system/application functionalities.  • Developed ER diagram for the application development project. Designed ER Diagrams using Data Modeling software like ER Win, MS Visio.  • Responsible for performing unit testing on ongoing software development projects.  • Conducted unit testing objective to isolate each part of the program and to ensure that the individual parts are correct.  • Developed custom business and financial reports via complex SQL database queries and stored procedures. Design, create, and maintain tables, views, stored procedures, functions, indexes, linked servers and other database objects in SQL server while ensuring data integrity, scalability, and reliability.  • Worked as database developer for organization's ERP system developed in MS SQL server. Provided database support such as developing tables, data entry, and data update/modification using SQL programming.  • Responsible for overseeing the Technical Team and worked as a liaison between Technical Team and Business team to ensure project success.  • Interacted very closely with internal resources to create project plans, and to resolve technical/non-technical issues to maintain project deadlines and deliverables.  • Responsible for management and coordination of projects with medium budget and limited duration. Administrated all phases of SDLC process of two application development projects.  • Facilitated development, testing and maintenance of quality guidelines of project deliverables and industry standard procedures along with necessary documentation.  • As the technical lead, developed project plans and application design patterns, provided design guidelines to developers.    Environments/Tools used: MS Project, MS Excel, MS PowerPoint, Agile Methodology, SQL Server 2008, SQL/ T-SQL, Microsoft Visual Studio2005, C# .NET Framework 3.5, Microsoft Excel 2007. Application Developer Prathima Technologies - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2013 to April 2014 Responsibilities:  • Led four application development projects, and act as a subject matter expert (SME) while administrated all phases of software development life cycle (SDLC).  • Designed, developed, and implemented four n-tire/multi-tier applications - three web based and one desktop based. Developed a billing solution, a payment tracking system, and an inventory management system.  • For web applications development projects, used PHP as the development language. Used HTML and CSS for UI design, JavaScript for application functionality and MySQL for supporting database server.  • For desktop based application development, used C# .Net as the development language, and Oracle as the database server. Wrote code in SQL Programming for database queries.  • Published sales and production reports monthly and offered PowerPoint presentations to several teams like marketing team, production team, and finance team.  • Collected sales, production, inventory data from various sources such as sales directory, production data and stored them in MS Excel spreadsheets. Analyzed medium-to-high volume production and sales data with MS Excel and published monthly reports.    Environments/Tools used: JavaScript, HTML, CSS, PHP, MySQL, Agile methodology, SQL programming, and MS Visual Studio. Education STL in BDE IPC Skills MySQL, Javascript, ASP