Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer Plano, TX Work Experience Python Developer VNS Infosystems Inc 2014 to January 2016 Source Control - GIT, SVN, CVS • Involved in full software development life-cycle, designing scalable  platforms, object oriented programming, database design and agile methodologies.  Monitoring - ELK, Splunk, Grafana • Built Web applications using Python, Django, Flask, JavaScript, AJAX,  HTML and Jinga2 templating.  • Involved in front-end designing using React JS, ES6 Javascript, HTML, CSS,  Cloud Automation - Terraform, Packer and Bootstrap  • Used the Model View controller ( MVC ) framework to build modular and  maintainable applications.  • Implemented Test-Driven Development using PyChecker, PyLint and PyUnit  and followed PEP-8 coding best practices.  • Worked with SQL databases like Oracle SQL Server, PostgreSQL and MongoDB  • Developed python scripts for automation and performing functional tests and data validation.  • Hands-On Experience with Requests, Numpy, Scipy, Matplotlib, Tkinter,  nltk, TextBlob and Pandas python libraries during development lifecycle.  • Building reusable code and libraries for future use.  • Wrote and executed various SQL database queries from python using  Cx_Oracle, Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Hands on Experience with parallel computing, multithreading, Experience  with JSON based REST Web services.  • Experienced in writing and reviewing requirements, architecture documents,  test plans, design and maintaining documents, quality analysis and helping with the software release process.  • Built various graphs for business decision-making using Python matplotlib  library.  • Used Python library Beautiful Soup for web scrapping. Education Master of Science University of Texas at Arlington - Arlington, TX 2014 to May 2015 Bachelor of Technology in Technology Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University - Hyderabad, Telangana 2009 to May 2013