Python Web Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Web Developer - BBVA Compass, Alabama AL • 4+ years of experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Management and Implementation of various stand-alone, client-server enterprise applications.  • Experienced in using MVC architecture using RESTful, Soap Web services and SoapUI and high-level Python Web frameworks like Django and Flask.  • Experience in object-oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, Django, and Linux.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, C++, XML, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, AngularJS, and jQuery.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache.  • Understanding of Python best practices (PEP-8)  • Familiar with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web Services (AWS)  • Experience in MVC 4, ADO.Net, ASP.Net, Entity Framework, WCF and C#  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on SQL Server and Oracle database.  • Worked on projects designed with agile and waterfall methodologies, high-quality deliverables delivered on time.  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  • Worked on AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings.  • Experienced in developing UNIX shell scripts and bash scripting.  • Excellent communication, interpersonal and analytical skills and a highly motivated team player with the ability to work independently. Work Experience Python Web Developer BBVA Compass, Alabama 2016 to Present MIO serves McKinsey's pension plans, partners, and former partners, working to enhance their long-term financial stability through superior investment performance and advice. It is managed independently, and all its activities are separate from McKinsey's consulting operations    Project-2: Market Data Acquisition (MDA) is an application for managing, maintain and updating security information for research and investment. Built the User interface to request the data and check the availability of the data, And Data usage statistics for cost rationalization process.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in data analysis using python and handling the ad-hoc requests as per requirements.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using python on Django web frame work on SQL Server.  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation  • Involve in the development of the application using Python 3.3, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JSON and jQuery.  • Used JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, CSS3, and HTML5 as data and presentation layer technology.  • Built application logic using Python 3.4/2.7. Used Django APIs for database access. Use the Model View Controller (MVC) framework to build modular and maintainable applications.  • Handled potential points of failure (database, communication points and file system errors) through error handling and communication of failure.  • Worked on Restful API's to access the third-party for the internal analysis and statistical representation of data.  • Developed build and deployment scripts using ANT & MAVEN as build tools in Jenkins to move from one environment to other environments.  • Managed, collaborated and coordinated the work of an offshore development team.  • Worked on development of internal testing tool framework written in Python.  • Used Test driven approach for developing the application and Implemented the unit tests using Python Unit test framework.  • Designed and developed the UI for the website with HTML, XHTML, CSS, Java Script and React.  • Logged user stories and acceptance criteria in JIRA for features by evaluating output requirements and formats.  • Involved in Agile process, Sprints, and daily Scrums to discuss the development of the application.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JSON, Python3.4/2.7, Django, Flask, Bootstrap, JavaScript, jQuery, Angular JS, CSS, SQL server 2012, SQL Server Management Studio, PyCharm, Eclipse, Visual Studio. Python Web Developer BBVA Compass, Alabama - Alabama May 2014 to Present Jr. Web Developer BBVA Compass - AL May 2014 to December 2015 Built internal admin applications and external client facing applications to support all the client related operations.  Responsibilities:  • Design and implemented a AngularJS web application base on existing ASP.NET web application.  • Used Dependency Injection for services, directives, controllers for testing purpose and loosely coupled design.  • Actively involved in designing the database and tables including stored procedures.  • Implemented the routing using Angular UI-Route  • Used AngularJS local storage to store data and prevent losing data after refresh.  • Designed and developed the application to be responsive for desktop, mobile and tablets using Bootstrap.  • Developed Business logic layer by implementing Object Oriented Programming languages (OOPS) concepts abstraction, encapsulation, inheritance, polymorphism in C#.  • Used MVC Design Pattern to develop classes to have clear separation of responsibilities of all the actions.  • Designed and developed user interfaces using ASP, JavaScript and HTML 5.  • Have followed the Scrum Agile Methodology in the development of the project.  • Knowledge in Jira ticketing tool to track the issues development progress and project tracking.    Environment: ASP.Net, .Net Framework 4.5, C#, 4.0, SQL Server 2012, Web Services, Visual Studio 2013, jQuery, HTML5, WCF, TFS, OOPS, HTML, MVC and CSS. Web Developer Intern Tek9 solutions January 2014 to March 2014 Developed online employment application and applicant tracking system, including database design, graphic design, reporting, and SSL and email notification aspects.  Responsibilities:  • Built web applications with MVC5, Designed and developed application using C# as code behind.  • Successfully developed web forms in ASP.NET using C# language.  • Developed web applications using ASP.NET MVC framework.  • Created Stored Procedures, Views, Functions, developing interfaces to read external files.  • Created Sub-Queries and Joins for complex queries involving multiple tables and Exception Handlers.  • Collaborated with senior developers to understand the existing code and maintenance.  • Research new web technologies, including software and hardware development.  • Identify current Internet browsers and website requirements and participate in planning and execution of projects by organizing and coordinating work assignments to achieve deadlines.  • Worked in Agile development environment with Scrum methodologies.  • Knowledge in Jira ticketing tool to track the issues development progress.  • Writing Unit testing and helping to test whole web application functionality.    Environment: ASP.Net, C#, AngularJS, HTML5, SQL server 2008, .Net Framework 4/3.5, Core Java, SQL Server Management Studio, Visual Studio. Education Bachelor of Computer Science in Computer Science University of Massachusetts Lowell - Lowell, MA Masters in Computer Science University of Massachusetts Lowell - Lowell, MA Skills .NET (4 years), JIRA (4 years), MS SQL SERVER (4 years), SQL (4 years), SQL Server. (4 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Web Technologies CSS, HTML, java Script, XML, jQuery, Ajax  Databases SQL Server, MySQL, Oracle  Programming Language Python 3.5, Python 2.7, C#  Operating System Windows, Linux  Frameworks Django, Flask, Bootstrap, ASP.Net, Angular.js  Tools & Utilities PyCharm, GIT, CVS, SVN, GitHub, Bugzilla, JIRA, Visual Studio  NOTE: Good Knowledge on ETL Tools and Scheduling tools (Active Batch)