Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer Columbus, OH ? Enthusiastic Web/Application Developer with 7 years of experience in developing and deploying projects using Python, Django.    ? Full software development life-cycle experience, worked in agile and waterfall methodologies with high quality deliverables delivered on-time.  ? Experience with architecting scalable platforms, object oriented programming, database design and agile methodologies.  ? Built web applications by using Python, Django, AWS, Flask, Jinga, WSGI, nginx, Fabric, PostgreSQL, REDIS.  ? In-depth knowledge of providing specifications using Waterfall, RUP or Agile Software methodology to modeling systems and business processes.  ? Proficient with Photoshop, Illustrator, Adobe Flash, SVN Eclipse, MS Visio, SharePoint and Microsoft Front Page.  ? Worked on cross browser compatibility testing and intellectual challenges in User Experience (UX).    ? Object oriented programming (OOP) programming experience using Python, C++ and PHP.    ? Strong working experience with WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, Python/PHP) Architecture.    ? Proficient in developing front-end applications using Python, Django, PHP, XML and JavaScript    ? Worked on installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache web server.    ? In-depth knowledge of design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.    ? Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.    ? Experience maintaining detailed documentation and architectural solutions in IT infrastructure and sales systems.    ? Worked on continuous integration and automation using Jenkins.    ? Worked on Unit testing/ Test driven Development (TDD), Load Testing.    ? Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer JPMC - Columbus, OH July 2015 to Present PnT & PmB - Worked on Pay multiple bills / Payments and transfers project using Python 3.5 for all backend authentication controllers and integrating the same with in-house custom framework called BlueJs.    Environment: Python3.5, Django, MS SQL Server 2013, MySQL, DB2, JavaScript, Eclipse, Linux, Shell Scripting, GitHub, Jira    Responsibilities:    ? Worked with Django Database API's to access database objects.    ? Used JavaScript to handle all the client side validation.  ? Built Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.    ? Used Bootstrap, JavaScript, and jQuery to optimize the user experience.    ? Built python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  ? Built data management system using MySQL.  ? Developed automated test design, frontend and backend feature implementation, and any other improvements to the test automation framework.    ? Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.    ? Developed Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.    ? Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile).    ? Developed unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.    ? Used Subversion control tool to coordinate team-development.    ? Built development environment with JIRA.    ? Developed multiple high performance MongoDB replica sets on EC2 with robust reliability.  ? Implemented whole frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.    ? Involved in debugging and troubleshooting of the web applications.    ? Involved in entire lifecycle of the project including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and implementation and support. Education BE University of Central Punjab June 2008 Skills DATABASE (1 year), DJANGO (1 year), JAVASCRIPT (1 year), LINUX (1 year), MS SQL SERVER (1 year) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Web technologies JavaScript, XML, HTML, CSS  Languages Python, Java, SQL, Shell Scripting  Frame works Django, Spring MVC, Hibernate  Database SQL SERVER, MYSQL, Oracle  Operating Systems UNIX, Linux, Windows and  Software Tools Microsoft Visual Studio .Net 2008, MS Visio, Valgrind Version Control Tools CVS, Perforce, Code Collaborator.  Web servers Apache, Flask