Python Developer/Data Scientist <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span>/Data Scientist Python Developer/Data Scientist - Infomerica Inc Cary, NC • Software professional and Data Scientist with over 3 years strong experience in performing development and basic data science tasks such as data exploration, cleaning and transforming data, automate the data ingestion of common formats, applying optimization algorithms to analyze data and perform data modeling, performance evaluation and application of machine-learning techniques, clustering and classification techniques within the information technology industry.  • Possess strong knowledge of computer science concepts, such as python, Java, R, Big Data (Hadoop, Spark), Hive, Pig, Scala, Git, MatLab, various data modeling techniques (linear/logistic regression, Clustering) training and evaluating models. Proficient in Python (pandas, scikit-learn), Excel, SQL, NLP, ELK stack and machine learning techniques (KNN, SVM, DTs, RF).  • Knowledgeable in deep learning (TensorFlow, Keras) and Amazon EC2, etc. Work Experience Python Developer/Data Scientist Infomerica Inc October 2017 to Present • Responsible for python development and basic data science tasks, such as data exploration, cleaning and transforming data, automate the data ingestion of common formats, applying optimization algorithms to analyze data and output well formed JSON to an ingestion service and usage of variety of data visualization tools to visualize and report on results within the information technology department of a $25M organization in the Advertising & Marketing industry.  • Processing, cleansing, and verifying the integrity of data used for analysis before ingestion.  • Develop python code to automate the ingestion of common formats such as JSON, CSV by using logstash from elastic search to Kibana dashboard to be viewed by clients.  • Develop dashboards using advanced visualization techniques and data capabilities such as embedding analytics in automobile and business process tools or designing dashboards tailored to strategic goals.  • Generate reports and analytics using Python and the Pandas framework of automobile datasets as per client requirements.  • Building machine learning models from development through testing and validation to 10+ million records in production  Environment: Python, Elastic Search, Logstash, Kibana, JSON, CSV, Pandas, Numpy, Machine Learning models, Matplotlib, Seaborn, Scikit-Learn, REST API  Achievements:  • Successfully developed and implemented a Python script to automatically generate visualization reports for every dataset. This automated process has resulted in a significant time savings of two hour per week. Python/Odoo Developer Computech Corporation June 2017 to September 2017 • Responsible for python development and basic Odoo ERP tasks, such as architect, design, develop and testing new modules within the Odoo framework, maintained employees security management databases, created a work flow using technologies such as GIT/SSH to develop multi -programmer, integrate Odoo with other web applications and edit existing Odoo modules within the information technology department of a $50M organization in the Computer Hardware & Software industry.  • Developing ETL workflows for structured and unstructured sets of large data related to employees for ingesting into Odoo.  • Building machine learning models from development through testing and validation to a significant number of employees in production  Environment: Python 2.7, MySQL, PostgreSQL, Odoo 10 framework, HTML5, CSS, JSON, Agile, VMWare player, JavaScript, Web Services, SDLC    Achievements:  • Successfully developed Odoo modules in python for HR security access. This enhanced the security authentication of employees in Odoo ERP which resulted in significant time savings of one hour per day. python developer SoftTech Systems January 2017 to May 2017 • The brief outline of the project was to understand the sentiments of people for predicting stock market.  • Worked on two different algorithms namely SVM and Tensor Flow to understand the tweets of people and generate a prediction of stock market based on sentiment of tweets.  Environment: Python, Twitter API, Keras, Tensor Flow Programmer/Designer/Product Manager - Senior Design SoftTech Systems July 2016 to December 2016 Online Intrusion Alert Aggregation with Data Stream Modelling Jul 2016 - Dec 2016    • Programmer/Designer/Product Manager - Senior Design project to provide a platform for Network Security administrators for detecting intrusions.  • Involved in design, development and idea of the web interactive interface to reach multiple platform users  Environment: Java 1.7, AWT, Swing, MySQL Programmer/Designer SoftTech Systems September 2015 to June 2016 - A project that uses NASA API Dataset to predict the mars Images and estimate the time complexity of machine learning libraries.  • Responsible for implementing KMeans and SVM libraries in Anaconda Python for training and predicting the images.  Environment: Python, Apache Spark, Scala, SVM, KMeans Education Technology Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University - Hyderabad, Telangana August 2011 to May 2015