Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Rowland Heights, CA • Objective-C, PHP, JavaScript, and Windows Batch, Statistic, Excel, Python.  • Quick to adapt, learn, implement new technology, love challenges, and never give up.  • Good at listening to user feedback and collaborating to create a better user experience and optimization. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Freelancer - Arlington, TX September 2016 to Present • Executed data ETL to fit machine learning algorithms, and plot graphs for visualization.  • Developed a website crawler to parse and save data, and downloaded batch videos from Youtube playlists.  • Added Business Value: Converted the python program to a windows executive, which optimized working efficiency, including extracting specular strings from pdf and docx files, sending get/post packages to decent websites, parsing the json and xml response, and exporting to csv files. Python Developer Freelancer - Arlington, TX September 2016 to Present • Executed data ETL to fit machine learning algorithms, and plot graphs for visualization.  • Developed a website crawler to parse and save data, and downloaded batch videos from Youtube playlists.  • Added Business Value: Converted the python program to a windows executive, which optimized working efficiency, including extracting specular strings from pdf and docx files, sending get/post packages to decent websites, parsing the json and xml response, and exporting to csv files. iOS Developer Freelancer September 2013 to August 2015 • Communicated with clients and merged their demands into features with designers.  • Studied documents from several APIs in order to accomplish special requirement.  • API : Google Maps, European Central Bank, Yahoo Weather, Parse.com, Facebook.  • Added Business Value: Successfully addressed difficult customer demands such as stopping the usage of other iOS apps and connecting with MySQL database. iOS Developer Freelancer September 2013 to August 2015 • Communicated with clients and merged their demands into features with designers.  • Studied documents from several APIs in order to accomplish special requirement.  • API : Google Maps, European Central Bank, Yahoo Weather, Parse.com, Facebook.  • Added Business Value: Successfully addressed difficult customer demands such as stopping the usage of other iOS apps and connecting with MySQL database. Website Developer Freelancer July 2012 to August 2015 • Manipulated websites with Javascript, jquery, CSS, HTML5, RWD, implemented ASP.NET MVC and MS SQL Server 2008 R2 on multiple platform devices, and utilized Google Analytics for SEO.  • Collaborated a startup team with deploying PHP, MySQL, Apache, and Redhat Linux.  • Added Business Value: Developed custom-tailored functions with Google Maps and Search Engine API. Website Developer Freelancer July 2012 to August 2015 • Manipulated websites with Javascript, jquery, CSS, HTML5, RWD, implemented ASP.NET MVC and MS SQL Server 2008 R2 on multiple platform devices, and utilized Google Analytics for SEO.  • Collaborated a startup team with deploying PHP, MySQL, Apache, and Redhat Linux.  • Added Business Value: Developed custom-tailored functions with Google Maps and Search Engine API. iOS Developer Intern Golface, Green Jacket Sports Co., Ltd - ??? January 2014 to June 2014 • Implemented and improved the table view based on the ideas of the design team.  • Designed and developed features for an auto-updating scoreboard system of golf games.  • Interacted with clients to optimize user experiences and fix issues.  • Added Business Value: Used git to co-work with programmers, improved the table view, and optimized the  algorithm to fit the new complex features. iOS Developer Intern Golface, Green Jacket Sports Co., Ltd January 2014 to June 2014 • Implemented and improved the table view based on the ideas of the design team.  • Designed and developed features for an auto-updating scoreboard system of golf games.  • Interacted with clients to optimize user experiences and fix issues.  • Added Business Value: Used git to co-work with programmers, improved the table view, and optimized the  algorithm to fit the new complex features. Education Master's in Business Administration University of Texas Arlington - Arlington, TX September 2015 to December 2016 Bachelor's in Mathematics National Tsing Hua University - Hsinchu, Taiwan June 2014 Awards iOS app achievement on Apple app store TimeReminder+ won the 2nd place of overall category, the 1st place of life style category of top charts in Apple app store, and featured on local newspaper, TV news, and technology blogs. The 2nd prize of AppUniverz hackathon 2011-07 Monster Pot an android app, awarded the 2nd prize of Appuniverz hackathon, a monster feeding and fighting game, playing throughout mobile bluetooth connection. iOS app achievement on Apple app store TimeReminder+ won the 2nd place of overall category, the 1st place of life style category of top charts in Apple app store, and featured on local newspaper, TV news, and technology blogs. The 2nd prize of AppUniverz hackathon 2011-07 Monster Pot an android app, awarded the 2nd prize of Appuniverz hackathon, a monster feeding and fighting game, playing throughout mobile bluetooth connection. Certifications/Licenses Microsoft Certified Solution Developer December 2013 to December 2015 Microsoft Certified Solution Developer Microsoft License E495-6608   • 20480 Programming in HTML5 with JavaScript and CSS3  • 20486 Developing ASP.NET MVC Web Applications  • 20487 Developing Microsoft Azure and Web Services Microsoft Certified Solution Developer December 2013 to December 2015 Microsoft Certified Solution Developer Microsoft License E495-6608   • 20480 Programming in HTML5 with JavaScript and CSS3  • 20486 Developing ASP.NET MVC Web Applications  • 20487 Developing Microsoft Azure and Web Services Additional Information Volunteer Experience   Teaching Assistant at Chinese Culture Language Association of UTA   February 2016 - December 2016   • Volunteered to have a conversation class with students over 70 hours, which is about Chinese pronunciation, Chinese spelling, and Taiwanese culture.