Hardware Consultant Hardware Consultant Hardware Consultant - Kiransys LLC Cupertino, CA • A hardware engineer with around 3 years of experience in Hardware programming language and embedded systems.  • Passionate toward VLSI Chip design and Hardware engineering.  • Seeking an opportunity to work in VLSI hardware testing, Design and verification field, where I can further learn and explore  my HW programming language skill. Work Experience Hardware Consultant Kiransys LLC - Dublin May 2016 to Present Implementation of Simple packet generator using Verilog HDL and tested using Verilog Testbench.  Project combines Packet Generator and APB block into top level DUT. The DUT generates random video data along with sof,  sol, eof, eol and valid control signals. DUT is programmed via APB registers. Testbench configures the DUT for various  modes. DUT outputs and control signals are automatically checked in Testbench.  • Implementation of APB protocol - Master and its Slave verification using Verilog HDL.  Model is used for communication between master and slave. Tested protocol for read, write and error cycles. Testbench is  Master APB and DUT is Slave APB module. Python Developer Tekforce Corporation - San Ramon, CA July 2015 to April 2016 Developed and implemented an Online stock portal tool using Python, that helps customer to create portfolios, follow  trending, buy and sell their stocks with best value. This is developed using Python, Django, Java Script, CSS, and HTML.  • Developed a Software Chess game, to play with a single user. Finding all possible moves are provided as clue to user. This is  developed using Python, Django, Java Script and CSS. Hardware Intern EdgePro Corporation - Mangalore, India January 2014 to June 2014 Developed and implemented a Home security system, which helps physically challenged people and old aged people.  Developed using PCA (Peripheral Component Analysis) algorithm for face recognition system. Developed using Image  acquisition, computer vision, Processing toolbox, Segmentation, Feature Extraction methods.  • Multi story Car parking system. Implemented using C and 8051 microcontrollers. Implemented the logic of aggregating the IR Sensor data and comparing with number of slots in each level. Education Bachelors in Electronics and Communication Engineering in Analog Communication VISVESVARAYA TECHNOLOGICAL UNIVERSITY August 2011 to June 2014 Skills Assembly. (1 year), Bash. (1 year), Django (2 years), Python (3 years), Verilog (3 years) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/padmaprabha Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  SW and HW Programming Languages: Verilog, C, C++ and Assembly.  Scripting Languages: Python, Perl, Bash.  Development Tools and simulators: Xilinx ISE, MATLAB, Keil uVision (8086, 8051), Model Sim, Mentor icstudio, LabVIEW and Eclipse.  Operating Systems: Windows 7, Windows XP, Ubuntu, Unix/Linux.  Framework & Technology: Django.