Data Scientist Data Scientist Data Scientist Seeking for an opportunity in the field of web data mining to utilize my extensive experience in Data Modeling, Statistical Analysis, Big Data and Software Engineering. Work Experience Data Scientist Nationwide Insurance - Scottsdale, AZ November 2016 to November 2017 Project Overview: In Beacon our main objective is customer gaining insight with big data analytics and providing predictions about when a customer is likely to leave, or shapes a customer's policy. Finding customers problems real-time and insurers to develop trusted relationships and engage customers in the right way with the accurate information.  Responsibilities:  • Played a key role to solve complex problems, pivotal to Nationwide's business and drive customer insights from petabytes of data.  • Extracting the Data from Different sources.  • Build and train scalable models using multiple regression and enabling re-use for future project  • Analyzed large, complex data sets by developing advanced statistical and machine learning models based on business initiatives.  • Extensively used Random Forest for Regression.  • Building Models according to the training data.  • Applying Statistical analysis on the given training data. Data Scientist Nationwide Insurance - Columbus, OH November 2016 to November 2017 Project Overview: PIM (Product Investment Manager) is an application used in Express. Our goal is analyzing customers to shop across multiple channels in real time and make difference in their purchase decisions.    Responsibilities:  • Extracting the Data from Different DB's  • Experience building highly scalable solutions in data storage, real-time analysis and reporting for multi-terabyte data sets  • Synthesize data from multiple sources for a clear understanding of opportunities.  • Segmenting the Data based on their Z-Scores.  • Build the database, design data flows, automate stored procedures of scripts for global retail-trading firm where • Plotting graphs for different scenarios and analyzing the mean square error.  • Conducted predictive model analysis and portfolio back testing based on ETL process in MS database system. Python Developer CME - Bengaluru, Karnataka July 2012 to December 2015 Overview: Minerva is a search engine application for the next generation data management so that it can be used for wide variety of cross-platforms within the organization. We were mainly into the backend development of the application.  Responsibilities:  • Designed the application using Python, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON and JQuery. Worked on backend of the application.  • Responsible for setting up REST API and integrating with application using Django  • Involved in writing SQL queries implementing functions, triggers, cursors, object types, sequences, indexes etc.  • Created and managed all of hosted or local repositories through Source Tree's simple interface of GIT client, collaborated with GIT command lines and Stash.  • Utilized continuous integration and automated deployments with Jenkins.