Webmaster Webmaster Python/Django Developer - Zulip San Francisco, CA Work Experience Webmaster San Mateo Union High School District - San Mateo, CA 2015 to Present Took over management of the district broken internal website built on Drupal content  management system. Within a month patched the site and got it back into production.  ? Utilizing Unix/Linux skillset, created the first testing environment for the web server, so that  the production site will have better uptime and performance.    1  Software Engineer  Phone: 559-213-4212 | Email: ajrmayberry@gmail.com  Linkedin: https://www.linkedin.com/in/akyyamayberry/  Github: https://github.com/hollywoodno  ? Collaborated with staff, admin, and HR personnel throughout the district to write custom PHP,  Bash and Javascript scripts. Customize forms and web views to fit the unique needs of endusers and specific departments.  ? UI/UX designer for frontend of the district's Board Agenda website. Using pure HTML, CSS and Javascript created a simple design that allows parents, board members and other users with  little-to-no web experience easily navigate and obtain board agenda information  ? Built and design the Learning Management System using Moodle framework. The LMS is  utilized heavily for district professional development training. I created the UI/UX design for the first course set up on the system, which is currently serves as a template guide for other  instructors.  ? Film and edit district webinars and special events videos Technology Support Specialist II San Mateo Union High School District - San Mateo, CA 2014 to Present Methodologically troubleshoot and document end-user computer, printer, IP phones and wireless/wired network issues throughout the district for HP, Dell, Mac, Chromebook, CISCO,  and Smart products. The efforts keeps endusers systems up and running smoothly, so that  they can focus on their tasks with minimum technological interruptions.  ? Exercise communication skills, empathy and patience to provide in-person and remote  helpdesk support and training for users with various levels of technical knowledge and comfortness.  ? Assist in the installation and maintenance of the district's WAN; configure routers and hubs to address networked computers; adjustments to LAN system to improve computing  performance for endusers; and maintain security software, patches, updates etc.  ? Work heavily with Active Directory User Accounts, Microsoft Office, deployment software and tools on both Windows and Mac platforms.  ? Write bash scripts to automate frequent and repetitive installation and deployment tasks. Python Developer Backend Django - San Francisco, CA 2014 to 2015 Wrote an enhancement feature using Geo location, HTTP request and response parsing,  and Maxmind location dataset API, that alerts users when there are new logins to their  account.  ? Contributed to Zulips custom implementation of Python's markdown, which allows users  to effortlessly type neatly formated text.  ? Wrote hardcoded SQL to upgrade Zulip's analytics system to create more subsets of the previous analytic stats.  ? Performed various bug fixes and contributed to Zulip's near 100% test coverage. Education Software Engineering Fellowship Hackbright Academy March 2016 Associate Arts in Computer Networking and Information Technology City College of San Francisco 2012 to 2014 certification San Francisco State University 2005 to 2010 Skills Javascript (3 years), Mac (5 years), Unix/Linux (3 years), Python (2 years), Git (3 years) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/akyyamayberry https://github.com/hollywoodno Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+ Additional Information TECHNOLOGIES  Languages | Python, iOS Swift, Bash, JavaScript (AJAX, JSON), HTML5, CSS3, SQL  Frameworks/Libraries | Django, Drupal, Flask, SQLAlchemy, jQuery, Bootstrap, Angular,  Database/Industry Tools | PostgreSQL, MySQL, AWS, PGAdmin3, Git, GitHub, Command Line,  Unix/Linux  Tools/Software | Microsoft Windows XP, 7, 8, Server, Office; Mac OSX, iOS and Server; Ghost,  Clonezilla, Fog, and MDT; ticketing systems; Wireshark; Meraki, Adobe Creative Suite; Final Cut Studio