Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Clark Atlanta University Roswell, GA Work Experience Python Developer Clark Atlanta University - Atlanta, GA 2017 to Present Atlanta, GA  Research Assistance & Thesis Research & Research Lab 2017- Present  • Working directly with the chairman of Computer Science and Information Systems department as a Python Developer using Machine Learning Algorithms and Data Analysis libraries.  • Working directly with the chairman of Physics department on my Thesis Research using Linux  operating system with Quantum Mechanics Theories in order to compute "Relativistic and non- relativistic energy levels, oscillator strengths, lifetimes and transition probabilities for NeV system"  • Working directly with the Professor to help assist with a Research Lab Classes.  • Serve as an informational resource and troubleshooting lab problems to physics students.  • Evaluating Python Code for graduate students' projects and tutoring them to enhance their  programming skills. Engineering Intern PetroGas - Tripoli, LY 2013 to 2014 • Worked directly with the Vice President of Financial Services to assist in special projects.  • Managed account portfolio for GE Oil & Gas Global Service.  • Analyzed budget and forecast variances to actuals and reviewed with Finance team on a monthly basis.  • Audited and reviewed financial models to ensure they were accurate. Financial Analyst Intern National Oil Corporation - Tripoli, LY 2011 to 2012 Investigated accrued contingencies related to environmental costs and pending litigation, using  Compact Document Journals and Excel to analyze entries aggregating over $50 million.  • Coordinated various planning cycles (annual planning, quarterly forecasts and monthly outlooks) and preparation of weekly, monthly and quarterly management reporting. Education Master's in Science in Physics in Physics Clark Atlanta University - Atlanta, GA 2016 to Present Bachelor's in Science in Petroleum Engineering in Classical Mechanics Tripoli University - Tripoli, LY 2008 to 2013 Skills C+ (Less than 1 year), CSS (Less than 1 year), Django (Less than 1 year), Excel (2 years), Python (1 year) Additional Information TECHNOLOGY SKILLS  • Advanced Proficiency in Microsoft Office: Excel, Word, PowerPoint  • Intermediate Proficiency in Python, MySQL, HTML, CSS  • Intermediate Proficiency in Python's libraries and frameworks such as Django, flask, Pandas, Numpy  and Tensorflow  • Knowledge of JavaScript, React, C++, OpenCV