Application Developer, Python Application <span class="hl">Developer</span>, <span class="hl">Python</span> Application Developer, Python - Bank of America Merrill Lynch New York, NY Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Application Developer, Python Bank of America Merrill Lynch October 2015 to Present Spearheaded UI redesign of Life-Cycle Management trading dashboard application, targeting faster  navigation and ease of on-boarding for new users.  • Designed and implemented new trading tools into our applications, working on front-end design and data services.  • Provided support to desk traders by solving production issues, assisting with queries, and helping to on-board new users.  • Optimized state of the world data service, reducing start-up time from 5 hours to 5 minutes, allowing  us to rapidly test and iterate on changes to the service without crippling dependent services.  • Revamped trading application data architecture to move from synchronous communication to a REST- service based, message passing model.  • Co-led front-end development of new dividends monitoring platform, implementing our group's first  real time data feed with AMPs. Student Researcher University Research - Clemson, SC March 2015 to May 2015 Shiver Me Timbers (C++, Game) Spring '14/15  Kangaeru Japanese Learning App (Android, Java, SQL) Fall '12/13 Student Intern Itron Inc - Walhalla, SC June 2012 to August 2012 ARM Assembly) Summer '12  • Led an effort to reduce memory footprint for power meter firmware by optimizing existing codebase.  • Reduced call stack sizes, removed repetitive logic, unrolled loops, and used other optimization  techniques to achieve memory gains.  • Worked in an Agile environment alongside senior team members to identify sources of potential  memory gains. Education B.S. in Computer Science Clemson University School of Computing 2010 to 2015 Skills AMPS (2 years), PYTHON (5 years), REST (2 years), ANDROID (Less than 1 year), JAVA (Less than 1 year), JSON (3 years), C (2 years), C++ (2 years), Hadoop (Less than 1 year), Assembly (Less than 1 year), Linux (2 years), Lua (Less than 1 year), sql Links https://github.com/BKO Additional Information Software/Tools: Hadoop • Android SDK • SDL • Cocos2d-x • LÖVE2d • Pygame • Unity •  Valve Hammer SDK • Visual Studio • Perforce • Git • SQL • REST • AMPS • Twisted •  Flask • Tornado    Languages: C • C++ • Java • Python • Lua • Prolog