System Administrator System Administrator System Administrator - One.com Work Experience System Administrator One.com June 2016 to Present Monitoring of infrastructure using tools like shinken, nagios, icinga, grafana  • Developing monitoring checks and automation tools using scripting languages Bash, Perl and Python  • Handling third level escalation for Systems Infrastructure & Operation team supporting 24X7  • Product Anchor and Quality Assurance Lead of MobileSync Product(Exchange Active Sync)  • Developed UI in ExtJS with backend in Golang for monitoring customer migration across infrastructure.  • Development of Linux based packages/services and deployment using GitlabCI  • Infrastructure automation configuration management using CHEF.  • Configuration and performance tuning of web services: Apache, Nginx, and Mysql  • Developed dashboard and utilities for monitoring internal infrastructure in Golang[GinGonic] for One.com India  Office  • Employee entry/exit management including access grant/revocation of VPN, SSH, Gitlab, etc. and user creation across infrastructure.  • Maintenance of mail infrastructure using tools like Halon, Postfix, Dovecot, Gobalancer.  • Beginner with networking (IP and IPv6, switching, routing, firewalls, iptables) and network devices monitoring  using LibreNMS.  • Batch Owner of Employee Recruitment (Fresher) - 2017  • Documentation of infrastructure including SOP and assist peers in code reviews. Python Developer Fulfil.io March 2016 to June 2016 Full Stack Development.  • Worked on Python ERP framework Tryton.  • Patches for Shipments, Sales and Production in Tryton depending on client's requirement  • Version control on github. PROJECTS AND INTERNSHIP Research on Big Data March 2016 to March 2016 Handling of BigData using Hadoop toolkit. Published survey paper in CICT-2016 on Big Data.  Phonebook directory (4th year-July '15)  Implementation of Create Read Update Delete in Django- Python. Uploaded project on github. Single Clearence Window Website March 2015 to March 2015 Establishment of website. Generation of Universally Unique Identifier(UUID) on the the submission of the complaint form. Complaint stored in the database of respective  department. Notification mail sent to user on email id provided at the time of submission.  Cloud Computing at KIET Ghaziabad (3rd year-Dec '14)  Establishment and Administration of Infrastructure as a Service(IaaS)  Deployed an opensource solution Openstack version-Juno.  VMs are successfully provided to students and faculties across KIET Intranet.  Mail Server as Summer Project under One.com (2nd year-Jun '14)  Establishment of mail server. Deployed Postfix and Dovecot. Used LXC for log  analysis and front-end in PHP and Round-Cube, the Web-mail software. Single script to implement the above complete setup and also to analyse the conversation between any two users.    CO/EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES:  • Awarded by Certificate of Appreciation in Aug-2017 and April-2018 for preceding quarters at One.com  • Member of internal club at One.com involved in policy proposal and writing  • Business Communication Training at British Council Delhi.  • Participated in IEEE Programming League organized by IEEE Computer Society India Council in Jan'15.  • Ranked 1st in Dramatics competition under the team 'VISION' at Cultural Fest Epoque 2015 at KIET.  • Worked on projects and guided students in "Network Club" &"Web Technologies Club", initiatives under  HOD(IT), K.I.E.T Education B.Tech in Information Technology Uttar Pradesh Technical University 2012 to 2016 School Certificate in ISC City Montessori School 2011 Certificate in Secondary Education City Montessori School 2009 Krishna Institute of Engineering & Technology