IBM Certified Python Developer IBM Certified <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> IBM Certified Python Developer - RPA - Robotic Process Automation Work Experience IBM Certified Python Developer RPA - Robotic Process Automation May 2017 to Present Completed UiPath Level 3 Certification.  ? Completed RPA Developer Diploma in UiPath  ? IBM Certified Python Developer  ? Good hands on exposure especially with integrating the Robotic Process  Automation to Backend Process.  ? Experienced in development from end to end automation solution to the  current manual work using UiPath.  ? Experience in Java Coding.  ? Extensively worked with automate web and desktop applications.  ? Supporting existing processes and implementing change requirements as a part  of structured change control process.  ? Working within project planning constraints, communicating any identified project risks  and issues to the delivery/project manager accordingly and providing inputs to the change control  process.  ? Managing and investigating exceptions. Associate Software Engineer Tech Mahindra October 2016 to February 2019 Working as a Business Technology Analyst at Deloitte Ltd, from Feb 2019 to Till date. Education B.Tech CVR College of Engineering Narayan Jr College SSC Martinet High School Additional Information Skill Sets:    ? UiPath, Blue Prism  ? Windows 7/8/2008/2012.  ? SQL.  ? Java, python.  ? Eclipse.  ? Oracle 10g and SQL Server.    Projects Summary    Project: GE Automation  Environment: UiPath, Tortoise SVN.  Role: RPA Developer  Client: General Electric  Location: Hyderabad, Telangana    Project Description:    Fin_147_1 Financial grid package automation: This process intends to update the ledger files(Excel  files) downloaded from shared location pertaining to current financial quarter using Oracle smart view  com add-ins and interacting with Oracle database through backend. And once the files are updated bot  uploads them to the shared location and will archive the initial excels files downloaded from the shared  location. After the completion of the process based on the outcome corresponding email notification will  be sent to the user by bot    Fin_148_1 Financial grid package automation: In this process, we connect to a Shared network location  and download a mapping file. Later the bot will connect to Oracle ebiz suite and run checks against pre-  decided validation rules, in the current zone and download a file. After downloading both the files bot  will upload them to the shared drive and will notify the user through email.    Fin_143_1 Profit and cost center update in DRG: In this process, we connect Oracle DRG application's  backend database and pull the data latest committed to the database after the last run. After fetching  this data, bot will query another database for the company code details and will then perform VLOOKUP  operations on both the data sets to generate a master table which is then iterated based on pre-defined  workflows to generate an excel template file each time a flow executes successfully. Later, the bot will  generate an service now ticket by attaching the generate files into it. After successful completion of the  process the end users are notified through an email notification, In the event of an exception  corresponding exception details are provided in the email notification.    Insurance Automation:  This process involves automation of the Insurance claim request data validations, the bot fetches the  incoming request details using an API call, After fetching request details, bot will now navigate through  different web applications and will validate the inputs in the request against the data in applications,  Once all the validations the are successful, bot will insert the request details into the database. In the  event of any exceptions the bot will insert the request details along with the exception message into  another database table.    This automation also involves localization of the process, to accommodate the various different business  rules pertaining to various different states/regions.    Fin_GETS_101: This process involves automation of the invoice processing where the filed invoices are  verified against a purchase order and are then validated for the acknowledgement or approval date from  the client, depending on the outcome of the validations the rebate rate is determined and a regular follow  up is sent as per the gestation period of the invoice.    SAP User Access Automation: This process aims to automate the adding, modifying and deleting of the  user profiles based on the email requests received by the bot and then updating the users with status of  the requests.    Resource Reconciliation: This automation ensures that the allocations to associates are aligned with  compliance norms, it verifies the resources allocated to the teams against the project and approved client  ID. And incase of any inconsistency alerts are triggered to the concerned managers and after certain alerts  if there is no response then the login ID of the associate id is deactivated.    Project: New Business Automation  Environment: UiPath  Role: RPA Developer  Client: TechM  Location: Hyderabad, Telangana    Project Description:    Process Details:    Process 1. The Process objective was to Validate the Invoice details of the client in the  Backend Systems. The bot picks up the work item from the excel file and then validate  the fields in the file, after successfully validating the fields the delivery address is  confirmed from another application. And the contents of the delivery package are  verified with ones in the Invoice.    The requester will be notified via email, after the successful completion of processing  the work item.  In event, of an exception. The bot will capture the screenshot and will send it to the  support team for investigation.    Process 2. The Objective of this was to capture details of the service ticket from the web based application  and validate the details. After validating the details, the bot will update the back ends based on the  business rules defined for the particular type of service ticket, and it will complete the ticket and send  email notification to the requester.    If the service ticket details are not valid, then the bot will notify the user with appropriate error message.    Roles and Responsibilities    ? Executing Process Screening and Identification through comprehensive process selection criteria    ? Conducting Pre-automation assessment on process complexity, qualitative and quantitative  benefits.    ? Performing processes prioritization for automation based on payback and stakeholders' inputs.    ? Implemented UiPath User authentication by defining user roles, creating users and setting  password policies  ? Creating solution on process automation for different Business Applications (Windows based,  Browser based).  ? Preparing and presenting business case to stakeholders.    ? Determining and conducting RPA enablers during pre-automation stage    ? Collaborate with vendors and stakeholders at levels within and outside the company.    Project: Ge water Insight Apps  Environment: Java, Python.  Role: Developer  Client: General Electrics.    Project Description    GE Insight Water Apps is web application which is used to monitor the health of plant and its asset by  analyzing the data from the various parameters of an asset, based on the data analysis the reports are  generated which are used to keep track of the health of various assets of a plant. The part of the project  in which am working deals with report generation which includes both front end and backend  enhancements. Front end is basically the user interface and backend is the service that supports profiling  the front end. The backend services are dealt with python and PHP. So am working with some changes  that is being done on the python side for better view of the already created reports. There are  also reports which are freshly developed for which entirely new services are written. Then we are  integrating the codes and the unit testing is being done    Roles and Responsibilities    ? Interacting with functional analysts and business process analysts to analyze, understand and  finalize the requirements    ? Interacting with solution architects to analyze application/service architectures, make  proposals on designs.    ? Writing the Low-level Design Documents for the requirements.    ? Involving in the development phase by developing the required services.  ? Performing code reviews.    ? Interacting with testing team during system testing phases.    ? Interacting and working with deployments team for preparing release notes and ensure  smooth deployments.