Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Wipro Limited Object-Oriented Analysis, Design and Development / Relational Database Systems:    ? Junior Web developer having 1+ years of experience in Software Development using Python with Django.  ? Involved in software development life cycle (SDLC) of tracking the requirements, gathering, analysis, detailed design, development, system testing and user acceptance testing.  ? Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  ? Skilled at writing well-designed, testable and efficient code using current best practices in Web development.  ? Strong expertise in development of web based applications using Python, HTML, XML and CSS.  ? Experienced in working with various Python Integrated Development Environments like Pycharm, Atom and Sublime Text.  ? Experience in Object Oriented Analysis in developing server side and front-end framework using various design patterns.  ? Good knowledge on Python library Beautifulsoup for web Scraping.  ? Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  ? Implemented and modified various SQL queries and Functions, Cursors and Triggers as per the client requirements.  ? Excellent Problem solving and logical skills and Substantial experience in handling Multitasks.  ? Quickly learn and master new technologies; successful working in both team and self-directed settings. Work Experience Python Developer Wipro Limited March 2018 to Present Responsibilities:    ? Analyzed system requirements specifications and also in client interaction during requirements specifications.  ? Involved in analysis and design of the application features.  ? Develop consumer based features and applications using Python and Django in test driven Development and pair based programming.  ? Writing backend programming in Python.  ? Understanding requirements and deliver software on time. Associate Software Engineer Wipro Limited - Bangalore, KARNATAKA, IN March 2017 to Present GIS Associate Wipro Limited March 2017 to March 2018 Responsibilities:  ? Reviewing, evaluating and updating Uber maps data.  ? Fulfilling special Wipro client projects  ? Developed and documented QA from raw to production data by discovering new issues,  determining optimal solutions and improving workflow.  ? Improve and develop the process, working methods and tools.  ? Managed a team of 20+ employees effectively increasing performance and productivity by supporting and training employee's skills Education Bachelor's in Electronics & Communication Engineering Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University 2013 to 2016 Diploma in Electronics & Communication Engineering State Board of AP 2010 to 2013 Additional Information Software Skill Set:    Languages: Python  Frameworks: Django  Web Technologies: HTML, CSS, XML  Databases: MySQL  IDE Tools: PyCharm, Atom and SublimeText  Operating System: Windows    PROJECTS:  #Project - 1: HMS  Role: Software Engineer  Description: HMS is a Hospital Management Application used by Craig Hospital operators around the globe. This project will automate the daily operations of Craig Hospital. The project keeps track of the staff and patient (in-patient, out-patient) details. It also takes care of the ward, medical, invoice and the doctor's appointment details. The system generates the daily ward availability, the status of the operation theaters and ICU. The backend for the application is based on MySQL and the frontend connects to it.  Responsibilities:  ? Played key role in the high-level design for the implementation of this application.  ? Involved in Processing Layer to implement Business Logic.  ? Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  ? Actively involved in developing the methods for Create, Read, Update and Delete (CRUD) in Active Record.  ? Involved in designing user interactive web pages as the front end part of the web application using various web technologies like HTML, Bootstrap and implemented CSS for better appearance and feel.  ? Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  ? Taken part in entire lifecycle of the project including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  Environment: Python 3.7, Django 2.0, MySQL, HTML and CSS    #Project - 2: Full-Featured Web App  Role: Software Engineer  Personal project  Description: Have features like login, signup, image upload, commenting and posting photo albums. Built in framework Django. Front-end in HTML, CSS and Bootstrap, database used is sqlite.  Responsibilities:  ? Involved in analysis and design of the application features.  ? Designed the front end of the application using Python, HTML, CSS and JavaScript. Worked on backend of the application, mainly using Active Records.  ? Worked on front end frameworks like CSS, Bootstrap for development of Web applications.