Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer Work Experience Python Developer IIIT-K January 2019 to May 2019 Video Surveillance using Computer-vision & Deep Learning:  Surveillance is an integral part of security and patrol. Using deep learning methods for surveillance more precisely for human face re-identification and face tracking. Using real time video streams provided by different cameras to extract the faces in it, which is then sent to a pre-trained neural net for identifying a face. A query face is used to search the video streams, if found the algorithm will return the camera id. Python Developer IIIT-K August 2018 to December 2018 Dialogue Suggestion for the Visually Impaired:  Facial expression recognition is a complex problem for machine in comparison to human and it has encouraged advanced machine learning algorithms. It is one of the methods for emotion recognition as the emotion of a particular person can be found out by studying his or her facial expressions. Suggesting a conversation initiator dialogue for the blind based on the emotional state of the person in front of him is crucial for the blind to interact with other individuals. R&D Intern Georgia Institute of Technology May 2018 to August 2018 Targeted to develop an extensible real-time sensor-based object tracking system. A smart and scalable surveillance system can improve the efficiency and reduce the manual labor by automation. Implementing an automation tool to simulate vehicle traffic on any given map imported from Open Street Map (OSM). Generating re-routers and detectors in SUMO for generating/rerouting random traffic and detecting every vehicle. Taking the simulation output to a network socket on the fly, which enables seamless integration with the rest of the system which is developing for recording the trajectories of all the vehicles all the time using a camera network. Python Developer IIIT-K January 2018 to May 2018 Attendance Management using Computer-vision & Image-Processing:  Using real time pictures of classroom for face feature extraction and comparing them with faces present in the data base for feature matching and marking attendance by using image processing techniques like eigen-vectors and spaces. MATLAB Developer IIIT-K January 2018 to May 2018 Object Recognition from Cluster:  Recognition and extraction of a particular object from a cluster of objects. A Project was done in MATLAB to recognize and detect a particular object in a cluster or group. The target image will be used to compare with reference image to detect and recognize. Some independent pixels or points will be used for detection of target image in reference image. IOT Developer IIIT-K August 2017 to January 2018 Earthquake Anomaly Detection  Project implemented using Arduino board based on IOT. The main objective is to detect an earthquake before it occurs by using changes in environment. Using a magnetic hall sensor, photo resistor, shock sensor, temperature and humidity sensor to detect the surroundings to check and see if there is any possibility of an earthquake. If different combinations of sensor values cross the threshold value, the buzzer is triggered. PHP Developer IIIT-K August 2017 to January 2018 Attendance Management:  Attendance management web-based application implemented using PHP as back end. This application's motto is to digitize the attendance marking procedure instead of the conventional method. Education Bachelor's Degree in Honor's Indian Institute of Information Technology Kottayam - Kottayam, KERALA, IN July 2015 to May 2019 Skills Git, SQL, PHP, PYTHON, KERAS, MYSQL, Javascript, HTML 5, R programming, Matlab