Python/Django Developer <span class="hl">Python</span>/Django <span class="hl">Developer</span> San Francisco, CA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python/Django Developer Cyient – IN May 2017 to Present ·        Translated the customer requirements into design specifications and ensured that the requirements    translate into software solution.  ·        Application was based on service-oriented architecture and used Python 2.5, Django 1.5, Ajax, HTML, CSS for the frontend.  ·        Designed the front end of the application using Python, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON and jQuery. Worked on backend of the application, mainly using Active Records.  ·        Developed and designed an API (RESTful Web Service).  ·        Used the Python language to develop web-based data retrieval systems.  ·        Designed and maintained databases using Python and developed Python based API (RESTful Web Service) using Flask, SQL Alchemy and PostgreSQL.  ·        Developed web sites using Django, Python, XHTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  ·        Developed and designed e-mail marketing campaigns using HTML and CSS.  ·        Tested and implemented applications built using Python.  ·        Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, CSS, and JavaScript.  ·        Created complex dynamic HTML UI using jQuery.  ·        Automated Regression analysis for determining fund returns based on index returns ( Python/Excel).  ·        Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures, trigger and function on MYSQL.  ·        Developed shopping cart for Library and integrated web services to access the payment.  ·        Developed server-based web traffic statistical analysis tool using Flask, Pandas.  ·        Implemented and tested python-based web applications interacting with MySQL.  ·        Simple web app for reviewing sitcoms that gives users the ability to view, add, review, up/down vote, search, etc. DevOps/AWS Engineer UHC Task tracker - Sterling, VA November 2016 to April 2017 ·        Written playbooks for generating custom SSH keys and uploading to the AWS Cloud.  ·        Launched an EC2 instance with custom security groups, with custom SSH keys and register the output for the further debugging process.  ·        Creating S3 buckets and also managing policies for S3 buckets and Utilized S3 bucket for storage and backup on AWS.  ·        Installing and Configuring the jenkins for the purpose of continues Integration and End to End automation for all build and deployments  ·        Deploying artifacts to S3 buckets from Jenkins using S3 Plugin.  ·        Downloading objects from S3 bucket using Ansible.  ·        Deploying objects from Jenkins to Tomcat application server using Ansible Playbooks.  ·        Creating Auto Scaling groups and policies.  ·        Worked with Development and Testing teams to establish a build schedule, execute software builds in GIT and troubleshoot build failures.  ·        Responsible for creating and developing the build process environment Managed users, groups and file/directory permissions under Linux. Education Bachelor's in computer science rgpv - San Francisco, CA January 2010 to May 2014 Skills MySQL, Git, Javascript, CSS