Software Developer Intern Software <span class="hl">Developer</span> Intern Software Developer Intern Houston, TX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Developer Intern Georgia Tech Signal Processing Laboratory - Atlanta, GA 2017 to 2018 Collaborated and assisted with researching and implementing C++ code to track and locate  speakers' voices in speech recordings.  - Analyzed and documented results in a comprehensive written report and delivered conclusions in an oral presentation upon completion of the internship.  - Worked with senior software developers to analyze and streamline processes, identify  inconsistencies, and execute on-time practical solutions.  - Remain current and up-to-date with technology, hardware, software, trends, and new releases. Python Instructor Houston Community College - Houston, TX 2016 to 2016 Planned, organized, and presented weekly tutorial sessions for 30 freshmen students in the fundamentals of Python programming to include script creation, data manipulation, task  automation, error handling, and data retrieval.  - Revised, consolidated, and generated weekly transcripts in a concise and logical manner. Community Manager Communication Consultancy Firm - Yaounde, CM 2013 to 2015 - Constructed, upgraded, and organized corporate on-line platforms.  - Facilitated and promoted firm's online image through social media and assisted in its  recognition as the country's first and foremost representative to the International Federation of  Standard Users (IFAN) and a member of the Reseau Normalisation et Francophonie (RNF). Education A.A. in Computer Science Houston Community College - Houston, TX 2018 B.A. in Computer Science University of Houston - Houston, TX Skills PROBLEM-SOLVING (Less than 1 year), PROJECT LEADERSHIP (Less than 1 year), QUALITY CONTROL (Less than 1 year), SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT (Less than 1 year), TESTING (Less than 1 year) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/eric-bannavti-suiseka-5879a02a/ Additional Information Operating Systems | Productivity Improvement | Quality Control  Technically-proficient, results-driven Computer Science student skilled with developing, testing,  and implementing software initiatives that result in improved efficiencies and increased productivity.  Solid critical-thinking and problem-solving skills with the ability to multi-task and work well in fast-  paced environments. Effective communicator with the capacity to work independently or as a team  player. Extremely organized and accurate; able to follow through to the last detail.  Reputation for integrity, reliability, and accountability with the initiative and drive to produce results  above and beyond what is expected. Core strengths include:  ü Systems Development ü Writing Code ü Program Testing  ü Research & Analysis ü Streamlining Processes ü Identifying Deficiencies  ü Project Leadership ü Improvement Initiatives ü Training & Development