Electrical Design Engineer Electrical Design Engineer Electrical Design Engineer Dallas, TX Electrical and Electronics Engineer with extensive hands-on experience in electronics including circuits and digital logic design. Highly technical and analytical in engineering innovative designs and applications. Widely knowledgeable in understanding the theory of Electrical Engineering and practical implementation of industrial standard circuit design and testing tools. .Design & Verification with VHDL, Verilog, system Verilog & OVM/UVM methodologies. Proficient in design and system analysis tools like Cadence or CAD, Express PCB, MATLAB Simulink, LT-spice, Multisim, and Keil IDE. In-depth knowledge and experience in analog integrated circuit design, board schematics and PCB layouts, interfacing, soldering techniques, and embedded systems. Work Experience Electrical Design Engineer Integra Technologies LLC April 2017 to September 2017 * Design and prototyping of electrical systems in virtual reality experiments.  * Build schematics, complete board layouts, assemble, test, debug, and integrate designs into electro-mechanical systems.  * Participate in all aspects of the design including specification, architectural development, transistor level design, layout supervision, chip level verification, and lab validation.  * Design, simulate, test, characterize and integrate digital and analog circuits.  * Helping the quality teams in developing the verification flow and methodology, test bench and test cases, plus executing the test plan. Python Developer Amensys Inc October 2016 to April 2017 * Participated in all stages of Software Development Life Cycle like Planning, Analysis, Design, Implementation and Testing.  * Model View Control architecture is implemented using Django Framework to develop web applications.  * Implemented Business logic, worked on data exchange, processed XML and HTML using Python 3.4 and its familiar framework Django.  * Developed Views and Templates with Python and Website interface is created using Django's view controller and template.  * Designed and Developed User Interface using front-end technologies like HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, AngularJS, Bootstrap and JSON. Design Engineer ELDAAS Technologies Pvt. Ltd January 2013 to July 2014 Karnataka, India  * Wrote new modules and edited existing modules in VHDL  * Developed test scripts in Python and utilized these scripts to quickly test multiple units.  * Participated in verification of compliance processes of all VHDL products.  * Debug firmware and software by testing units, isolating problems, and fixing bugs  * Implemented prototyping functions and developed FPGA components.  * Hardware Design with Cadence -Virtuoso, LT-spice, Altera Quartus, Modelsim, .  * Design & Verification with Verilog, system Verilog & OVM/UVM methodologies. Education Master of Science in Electrical Engineering in Electrical Engineering Texas A&M University - Kingsville, TX May 2016 Bachelor of Engineering in Electronics in Electronics & Communication Visvesvaraya Technological University, Karnataka State May 2012 Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/lalith-raj