Python Developer at Verizon <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> at Verizon Python Developer at Verizon Jersey City, NJ Work Experience Python Developer at Verizon Pyramid Consulting - Basking Ridge, NJ October 2018 to November 2018 • Understanding the infrastructure and participate in the design of infrastructure systems.  • Involved in development of backend module using Python and Korn shell.  • Scheduling Korn shell scripts in the cronjob.  • Developed a single instance running Korn shell script to set the parameters and call the python script.  • Wrote a generic python script to automate the reading of files from 28 network depots simultaneously and store  it in AWS S3 bucket.  • Wrote AWS Lambda triggers to process the files from the s3 bucket and store it in AWS Aurora.  • Skills - Python, Shell Scripting, Vim, Unix, AWS services, Git, Confluence, JIRA. Python Developer Gokronos Inc - St. Louis, MO May 2018 to October 2018 • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile).  • Involved in Unit and Integration Testing.  • Write automation python scripts to test modules of the product.  • Used python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Resolved issues and improvised the process to ensure a stable and accurate solution.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse JSON documents and load the data in the database.  • Worked on several python packages like NumPy and Pandas.  • Skills - Python, NumPy, Pandas, JSON, Vim, Unix, AWS services, Git, Confluence, JIRA. Technology Analyst Co-Op Nomura America Services LLC - New York, NY June 2017 to December 2017 Nomura provides investment, financing and related services to individual, institutional and government customers on a global basis with an emphasis on securities businesses.  • Developed a script which accurately identifies the number of turrets (trader phones) required for the use by traders thereby working towards cost saving initiatives for the company.  • Build a script to automate the monthly allocation of turrets by combining data from multiple feeds and performing data munging with dimensionality reduction to provide traders cost center analytics.  • Build a tool to automate the feeds from Cisco Call Manager, Cisco Unity Connection and Voice Recording System  to audit the new traders that are to be recorded. The script was scheduled and deployed on the production  server.  • Used JIRA as Issue Tracking Tool & Setup Docker on Linux and configured Jenkins to run under Docker host.  • Good knowledge of web services with protocols SOAP and REST.  • Worked on several python packages like NumPy, SciPy, PyTables etc.  • Familiarity with development best practices such as code reviews and unit testing.  • Used Git for version control.  • Automated the manual tasks to improve the team productivity efficiency.  • Skills - Python, SQL, Oracle, Unix, REST, HTML, jinja2, JSON, Shell scripting, GIT, Cloud 9. Full Stack Developer 3i Infotech Limited - Mumbai, Maharashtra July 2014 to July 2016 A global IT company which provides software and IT solutions for the banking, financial services, insurance, manufacturing,  contracting, and retail and distribution industries.  • Products: ULS (Universal Lending System), Kastle(TM) Factoring.  • Development, Production Support, Incident management and resolving.  • Application development and customization of their core product in Factoring for clients across Saudi Arabia,  UAE and Singapore. Majorly worked in Java as frontend and Oracle 11g as database.  • Skills - Core Java, JSP, Python, EJB, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, AJAX and Oracle. Education Master of Information Technology in Information Technology Rutgers University - Newark, NJ August 2016 to December 2017 Skills AJAX (2 years), CSS (2 years), HTML (2 years), Oracle (2 years), Python (3 years) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/divyangparmar Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  ° Languages: Python, SQL, PL/SQL, EJB, Core Java, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, R, Unix Shell Scripting,  Command Line.  ° Frameworks: Django, Flask  ° Web Technologies: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, XML, Servlet, JSP, JSON, AJAX  ° Databases: SQL Server, AWS DynamoDB, Oracle 11g, MySQL.  ° API: Twitter, GitHub, Slack, Web Endpoint  ° Tools: Rodeo, R Studio, Anaconda, PL/SQL Developer, SSIS, SSRS, Qualtrics, Git, SVN, Putty, Postman.  ° Java SE 6 Programmer Certified Professional.