Software Engineer (machine learning) Software Engineer (machine learning) Software Engineer (machine learning) Washington, DC Work Experience Software Engineer (machine learning) April 2018 to September 2018 Tunicorn Technology ( Python, Pytorch)  ? Applied latest academic research in Machine learning algorithms on Industry area    ? Generated large datasets through the cycleGAN model on pytorch    ? Generated data improves the precision of OCR network model to recognize credit card    from 80% to 91% Developer( Python) LSTM video classifier, High Performance Computing Architecture Lab October 2017 to June 2018 Built a LSTM classifier through TensorFlow to recognize video data extracted from a    opensource human body detection library.  ? Trained the LSTM model on AWS(EC2) server    ? Classified tennis striking poses motion into five classes and reach 87.45% accuracy    ? Won $3000 award in the Computer Engineering Department Showcase program Software Engineer Intelligent Automation, Changyuan Group Ltd July 2016 to July 2017 Python, Objective-C)  ? Worked with software manager to design and develop a test platform on Mac OS system.    ? Operated multi-thread test script on the test platform which includes Objective-C on X-Code software  ? Maintain and redevelop the test platform according to customer demands. Developer(C++, JavaScript) March 2016 to June 2016 Real time locating and tracking of the transportation vehicle  ? Designed a platform and wrote Android app to visit the API of AutoNavi to read  the location information of the transportation vehicle  ? Programmed JavaScript to build the UI interface and lay on the LabVIEW platform Developer(C++, Python) Video data object Detection, Jilin University April 2015 to May 2016 Developed a platform to record videos in real time. Identify, track moving object and automatically provide guidance  ? Established the real-time video object detection and image segmentation model  ? Planned to further develop functions of object detection, human motion analysis and threat warning through OpenCV  ? Received temporary 8000RMB financial support from government and Jilin University Education Master of science in computer engineering in computer engineering George Washington University August 2017 to January 2019 Bachelor of engineering in Measurement and Control Technology and Instrument Jilin University September 2012 to June 2016 Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/haoran-liu-443512159 Additional Information Skills pytorch, TensorFlow, AWS(EC2), IOS, Linux(CentOS, Ubuntu), X-Code, OpenCV