Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer Dallas, TX • Around 4+ years working experience in Programming languages like java, python, Scala, JavaScript.  • Around 2+ years working experience in cloud services like AWS and Build tools like Jenkins, Maven.  • Experience in Creating, managing and deploying applications on containerized platforms like Docker.  • Excellent understanding of continuous integrations and continuous delivery pipeline and its implementation using Jenkins as well as AWS Code Pipeline.  • Extensive Experience in system analysis, design, development and implementation of web based and client/server application using HTML5, JavaScript, jQuery, Ajax, Angular, java/j2ee, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, XML, XSTL.  • 2+ year experience in creating server less web application using AWS services like Lambda, DynamoDB, Cognito, API Gateway, S3.  • Experience Deploying application on AWS cloud using Elastic Beanstalk, Cloud Formation and Automated Deployments using Code Deploy.  • Experience building, maintaining and deploying Docker based images on enterprise scale using swarm and AWS Elastic Container Service.  • Excellent Knowledge of building Restful Web services using Java Spring and Hibernate, Django Rest Framework, Flask.  • Excellent understanding of Service Oriented Architecture and Micro Services for building Large Scale Enterprise applications.  • Experience with RDBMS Databases like MySQL, Oracle and NoSQL Databases like MongoDB and DynamoDB.  • 2+ years of working Experience with Java & python web Frameworks like Spring, Hibernate, Struts, Django, Flask.  • 2+ year experience in writing Hadoop MapReduce jobs, Pig Scripts and Spark jobs in both java and Python.  • Excellent experience with Front-end technologies like HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, jQuery, Angular and Angular 2.  • Experience working with version control systems like GIT, SVN to Collaborate among teams.  • Excellent Experience creating Virtual Private Cloud and Deploying application securely with in the VPC's.  • Ability to design Decoupled Applications using traditional technologies as well as cloud Based technologies like Simple Queue Service(SQS) and Simple Work Flow Service(SWF).  • Excellent Knowledge building Virtual Private Cloud and restricting access using Bastion Host and NAT Instance.  • Experience Building Search Full-text based search engine using Apache Solr and Apache Lucene.  • Hands on experience with Linux Shell & Python Scripting.  • Excellent Knowledge of python analytics libraries including NumPy, SciPy, Pandas, MatPlotLib.  • Excellent Team Player with ability to work well in diversified groups, Quick Learner and Good Listener. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Wunderman - Dallas, TX January 2017 to December 2017 Used Bootstrap as a mechanism to manage and organize the html page layout.  • Used AngularJS as the development framework to build a single-page application.  • Develop consumer based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML, Behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pair based programming.  • write Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Able to create scripts for system administration and AWS using languages such as BASH and Python.  • Implemented front end for third party Web service using JQuery, Html, AJAX, JSON and JavaScript.  • Developed Views and Templates with Python and using Django's view controller and template language, Website interface is created.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQLdb package.  • Involved in development of Rest Web Services using Django Rest framework for sending and getting data from the external interface in the various formats.  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures on MYSQL.  • Deployed the application using AWS Elastic Beanstalk using EB CLI. Graduate Assistant, Python Developer Southern Arkansas University January 2016 to December 2016 • Performed the requirement specifications and designing of modules.  • Involved in application development by coordinating requirements, schedules, and participated in team meetings and troubleshooting.  • Followed best practices, quality and consistency in project development.  • Involved in developing web applications using Django Framework to implement the model view control architecture.  • Involved in Developing Restful services using Django Rest framework.  • Implemented the client code for consuming the REST Web Services.  • Developed single page web application using AngularJS, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, jQuery for interactive cross-browser functionality.  • Maintained the Oracle Database on Aws using Multi-AZ deployment as it provides better fault-tolerance.  • Deployed the Django application using AWS Elastic Beanstalk.  • Developed AWS Lambda Functions using python boto3 library and configured the API Gateway to trigger those functions on respective API call.  • Implemented Authentication & authorization on AWS Cognito using JavaScript library.  • API Gateway calls are authenticated using the user tokens provided by Cognito.  • Static Files are stored in S3 buckets and metadata associated with the static files is stored in DynamoDB tables.  • Created IAM roles for the lambda functions to access other AWS Resources.  • Used Route53 for DNS Record management.  • Deployed the Serverless application using Cloud Formation.  • Used Git for version Control.  Environment: Python 2.7, Rest, API Gateway, Lambda, Cognito, JavaScript, Angular 2, DynamoDB, IAM, RDS, Django, Django Rest Framework, S3, Agile, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, jQuery, Boto3, API Gateway, Oracle, Elastic Beanstalk, Route53, GIT. Jr. Java Developer HCL Technologies - Hyderabad, Telangana January 2014 to July 2015 • Used OOAD for building applications. Involved in gathering business requirements, analyzing the project and creating use Cases and Class Diagrams.  • Created sequence diagrams, collaboration diagrams, class diagrams, use cases and activity diagrams using Rational Rose for the Configuration, Cache & logging Services.  • Designed and developed the project using MVC design pattern and developed front end using Spring MVC framework, business components using Spring.  • Developed Spring MVC validators to perform server-side business object validations.  • Implemented Tiles based framework to present the layouts to the user and has and developed UI using view tags (HTML), JSP, JavaScript, CSS.  • Implemented Generic DAO using Spring JDBC to handle database operations on Similarly Constructed Tables.  • Developed user interface using JSP, JSP Tag libraries, Spring Tag libraries and Java Script to simplify the complexities of the application.  • Developed RESTful API with Spring Framework for benchmarking purposes.  • Implemented Spring framework in the presentation tier for all the essential control flow, business level validations and for communicating with the business layer.  • Worked on Spring Web Flow on Spring MVC to build an application from scratch using Spring XML configurations, annotations. Wrote controllers to handle incoming requests and send output to the UI Configured.  • Used JSP, JavaScript, JSTL, EL, Custom Tag libraries, Tiles, Interceptors, and Validations provided by Spring framework.  • Wrote authentication and authorization classes and manage it in the front controller for all the users according to their entitlements using Spring security.  • Implemented caching techniques using Hibernate, wrote POJO classes for storing data and DAO's to retrieve the data and did other database configurations using Spring.  • Used Aws S3 for storing and retrieving static content, AWS Cloud Front for improving latency.  • Developed SOAP, REST based Web Services for Integrating with the Enterprise Information System Tier.  • Involved in setting up Jenkins for continuous integration and continuous builds by polling the repositories.  • Developed unit test cases for the data access layer and business components using Junit and Mockito.  • Used JAXB, XSD for XML data generation and presentation and Wrote Junit test classes for the services and prepared documentation.  • Experience using Simple Storage Service for storage static data and implemented life cycle policies for achieving purposes.  • Application is deployed on AWS Cloud Platform using Elastic Beanstalk.  Requirements: Java 1.6, JSP, Servlets, JAXB, XSLT, DOM, XML, Spring 3.0, Web Services, JNDI, J2EE, JBoss6.0, Rational Rose, Spring, CVS, XML, Log4J, Oracle9i, Junit, Jenkins, Junit, JavaScript, DHTML, AWS S3, Elastic Beanstalk. Java Intern HCL Technologies - Hyderabad, Telangana July 2013 to December 2013 • Developed the application using Spring Framework that uses Model View Controller (MVC) architecture with JSP as the view and jQuery validation framework for front end validations.  • Developed the web application using Spring Framework involving features like Expression Language, action listeners, custom components, etc. Created conditional logics in pages using JSP tags and JSTL.  • Involved in developing front end screens using JSTL, jQuery, HTML, CSS, AJAX and JavaScript. Also, involved in adding the Internationalization to the existing application.  • Used Spring ORM Support for Hibernate to manage Hibernate Resources and consistent exception hierarchy. Integrated Spring DAO for data access using with Hibernate and Spring Validation Framework for Server-side validation.  • Used Spring MVC, Spring ORM and Spring Security modules to integrate with MySQL database to implement persistence layer in Hibernate.  • Developed Business components using core java concepts like Interfaces, Polymorphism, Collections, Serialization etc.  • Designed stored procedures, triggers and functions in MySQL and DB2 for business-critical requirements. Created E-R graphs and relationships among different database and creation tables with low coupling.  • Involved in performing Unit and Integration testing (JUnit). Strictly followed TDD using Agile methodologies.  • Used JMS-MQ bridge as provider to send messages in a secure, reliable and asynchronous method.  Environment: Java 1.6, J2EE, JSP, JSTL, Servlets, Hibernate, Spring MVC, Spring Security, MySQL, SQL, WebLogic Application Server, JMS, XML, JavaScript, jQuery, SOAP, JMS, SVN, JUnit, Log4J, TDD. Education Masters Southern Arkansas University Bachelors SRM University - Chennai, Tamil Nadu Skills HTML (3 years), JAVASCRIPT (3 years), AWS (3 years), REST (3 years), WEB SERVICES (3 years) Additional Information Skills:  Programming Languages Java, Python, Scala, Ruby  Front end HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap, AngularJS, Angular 2  Big Data MapReduce, Pig, Spark  Cloud Services: AWS  Build Tools: Jenkins, Maven  Web technologies: Spring, Struts, Servlet's, JSP'S, Design Patterns, Hibernate, Django  Web Services: SOAP, REST  Relational Databases & NoSQL MySQL, Oracle, MongoDB, DynamoDB  Version Control Systems GIT, SVN  Deployment Tools Chef, AWS Code Commit, Docker  Server-less Technology AWS Lambda  Testing Tools JUnit, Mockito  Monitoring and Logging Cloud Watch and Cloud Trail  Messaging Queue's JMS, AWS SQS  Operating System Window, Linux, Mac OS  Web & App Servers Tomcat, WebSphere, WebLogic  Search Platforms Apache Solr, Lucene  IDE's & Text Editors Eclipse, NetBeans, Notepad++, Sublime Text, Visual Studio, Atom, PyCharm  Python Libraries NumPy, Pandas, Beautiful Soup, SciKit-learn, urllib2, cx_oralce  Networking Subnet's, NACL's, Security Group's, Bastion Hosts, NAT, TCP, UDP, Internet Gateways