Full-Stack Developer Full-Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full-stack developer - Innovatis Technology Inc Jersey City, NJ Software Engineer/Java developer/AngularJS developer  “I pursue more maintainable, more scalable and more testable software application for cost reduction and efficiencies improvement. ”    Performance Summary  • 2+ years experience of software and web Development and Programming for technical consulting company and professional academic project with strong knowledge of Object-Oriented programming and software design principal.  • Good understanding of architecture of web application with combination server-side and client–side, so that able to work on multiple tasks within different components and skills.   • Hand on Experience in web and software framework and implementation of web service. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Full-Stack Developer Innovatis Technology Inc - Jersey City, NJ February 2016 to Present •Participated in all aspects of SDLC (Software Development Life Cycle) for this web application development with Agile methodology and daily Scrum meeting.  •Load XML data from remote platform in Linux Environment and merge local data together.  •Implemented serialization and deserialization of data transfer objects (DTO) and transfer DTO by Java Message System (JMS).   •Configured Spring MVC for the data transfer between front-end and mid-tier to handle request from the client side and response back to front end  •Implemented Hibernate in the Data Access Object layer to access and update information in the Oracle10g Database.   •Worked on Model-View-Controller (MVC) Architecture on the client side making use of Angular JS.   •Defined several reusable UI components by customizing ng-directive in AngularJS.  •Used AngularJS controllers and directives to bind data, used $http service for AJAX call to communicate with the server side and used $resource service for promise object. Java Developer Stevens Institute of Technology - Hoboken, NJ March 2015 to September 2015 Project: Equity strategy Application May 2015- Dec 2015  • Worked with financial Enginning team together and optimized faninical strategy by advanced Algorithm in order to improve time efficiency.  • Built strategy model by scalable data structure and optimized algorithm in Java.  • Deployed and maintained application remote Linux sever on AWS.  • Designed data model by proposal requirements and built remote database with Postgres.  • Implemented SOA and EDA Desgin pattern by multithread programing.   • Built dynamic client side used by Javascript and servlet then communicated with back-end.  • Used shell scripting to implement AWS back-up of database and server Core Java& Python Developer New Fortune Securities - ??? March 2013 to June 2014 Project: equity Analytic API  •Developed Analytic API according mathematic model from analytic team using Python.  •Processed natural language from review by Python NLTK package and Format data by Pandas and Numpy.  •Analyze Format data using Machine Learning algorithm by Python Scikit-Learn.  •Implemented data visualization and stored data into MongoDB.    Project: Financial Analytics Modeling System  •Implemented the Pricing Engine model with core Java that will support adverse selection, hedging, inventory cost of block trades.   •Implemented and deployed analytics models (model layer entity classes) in core as defined by the business.  •Built Service components to support multiple clients (Multi-threading) under Spring AOP.  •Worked on Spring Hibernate module on persistence layer for Object Relational mapping.  •Wrote Unit test cases for the classes using JUnit and control version by Git. Education M.S. in Computer Science Stevens Institute of Technology Hoboken - Hoboken, NJ August 2014 to May 2016 B.S. in Computer Science Beijing Institute of Graphic Communication - ??? 2009 to 2013 Skills Java (5 years), Javascript (3 years), AngularJS (2 years), Databases (4 years), JavaEE (4 years), Python (2 years), NodeJs (1 year), ReactJs (1 year) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Programming Languages Java, C/C++, SQL  Spring 3.x/4.x, Servlet, JSP, JDBC, Hibernate 3.x, Struts2.x, JavaMail,  J2EE Technologies  Log4J, Maven  Databases Oracle, PostgreSQL, MySQL,  HTML/HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap, AJAX, XML,  Web Technologies  JSON, DOM, JAXB  Scripting Languages SQL, Python, JavaScript  Web Service SOAP, RestFul  Operating System Windows, Linux, MacOS  Test and Version Control JUnitt, JIRA, SVN, Git  Application Servers Apache Tomcat 6.x/7.x, JBoss 5.x  IDE tools Eclipse, Visual Studio