Quality Assurance Engineer Quality Assurance Engineer Python Developer/ Tester California, MD • Experienced in Unit testing, Integration testing, User acceptance testing, and Functional testing along with debugging/troubleshooting issues in complex applications.  • Hands-on experience in writing and reviewing requirements, architecture documents, test plans, design, documents, quality analysis and audits.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, PHP, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, AngularJS and JQuery.  • Well versed with Python libraries such as NumPy, SciPy, PyQT and MySQL dB for database connectivity.  • Experience in configuration management tools such as GIT, GitHub, and SVN.  • Deep Understanding of Python best Practices (PEP-8).  • Good experience in using charting libraries like PYcharts and Highcharts libraries to add interactive charts to web applications.  • Having good experience with scripting languages such as Python, Shell and Ruby.  • Good knowledge of Web servers like Apache Tomcat and Web logic.  • Good experience in creating the Docker image and Docker containers.  • Good experience in working with data analytics and Excel data extracts in a Python based environment.  • Well versed in writing SQL Queries, functions, packages, tables, stored procedures, views and triggers.  • Proficient in Relational databases such as MySQL, MS SQL.  • Experience in generating report on Kibana.  • Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript and also achieved responsiveness by using Responsive Web Design patterns and Bootstrap.  • Proficient in JavaScript, jQuery & AngularJS and web services such as SOAP and REST.  • Experience in using JavaScript Model View Controller (MVC) frameworks such as Angular sand Backbone JS with a good understanding of competing frameworks.  • Having experience in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience.  • Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  • Comprehensive knowledge on software development using Shell scripting, Python, core Java and web technologies.  • Sound knowledge of Object Oriented Programming Methodologies with developmental experience in python technologies.  • Active Participation in Full development life cycle (requirements, design, architecture, development, testing).  • Excellent analytical and problem solving skills and ability to work on own besides being a valuable and contributing team player. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Quality Assurance Engineer Cisco Systems, Inc - San Jose, CA April 2016 to March 2017 Responsibilities:  • Rewrite existing Python modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Generated graphical reports using python package PYcharts.  • Used Python scripts to manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Test the application on different browsers and different operating systems.  • Representation of the system in hierarchy form by defining the components, subcomponents using Python and developed set of library functions over the system based on the user needs.  • Wrote programs to parse excel file and process many user data with data validations.  • Developing and maintenance of the tool that abstracts the information for the user.  • Utilized various IDEs and internal debug tools during debugging.  • Perform positive and Negative testing by inputting valid and invalid data.  • Analyzing the data in design database.  • Maintained the versions using GIT and sending the release notes for each release  • Utilized PyUnit, the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications.  • Enhanced existing automated solutions, such as the Inquiry Tool for automated Asset Department reporting and added new features and fixed bugs.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Wrote Python OO Design code for manufacturing quality, monitoring, logging, and debugging code optimization.  • Involved in Installation and setting up Python/Windows test beds.  • Used Python library Beautiful Soup for webscrapping.ss.  • Developed, tested and debugged software tools utilized by clients and internal customers.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Coded test programs and evaluated existing engineering processes.  • Designed and configured database and back end applications and programs.  • Created a Git repository and added the project to GitHub.  • Performed research to explore and identify new technological platforms.  • Collaborated with internal teams to convert end user feedback into meaningful and improved solutions.  • Resolved ongoing problems and accurately documented progress of a project.    Environment: Python 3.4.3, PyUnit, MySQL, Angular.js, Bootstrap, Windows, Jira, Linux, HTML, Load Runner, CSS, JQuery, JavaScript, Git, Apache, MongoDB and RestFul. Python Developer Unicon, Inc - Gilbert, AZ August 2015 to February 2016 Responsibilities:  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web based solution.  • Coding in Python (Linux, Windows, MySQL) environment.  • Built application logic using Python 2.7.  • Used the Django Framework to develop the application.  • Used Django APIs for database access.  • Used Python to extract weekly hotel availability information from CSV files.  • Created Data tables utilizing PyQT to display customer and policy information and add, delete, update customer records.  • Developed Python batch processors to consume and produce various feeds.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  • Set up rules and policies with a Python back end.  • Worked with Open stack Command-line client.  • Used Python SDK to build applications that use Couch base Server.  • Created a Git repository and added the project to GitHub.  • Created PyUnit test cases for unit testing.  • Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Used Web Services to get travel destination data and rates.  • Participated in requirement gathering and worked closely with the architect in designing and modeling.  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures on MYSQL.  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile).  • Developed shopping cart for Library and integrated web services to access the payment (E-commerce).    Environment: Python, Django, PyQT, RabbitMQ, Panda API, HTML, CSS, AJAX, Angular.js, Flex, JSON, Restful, XML, JavaScript, OOD, Shell Scripting, GITHub, MYSQL, Cassandra, Jira, agile. Python Developer & Quality Assurance Engineer Progressive Digital Media Private Limited - Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh May 2012 to January 2015 Hyderabad, India.    Responsibilities:  • Programming in Python as well as Perl.  • Participated in the complete SDLC process.  • Perform different methods of black box testing.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Developed user interface using CSS, HTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Created entire application using Python, Django, MySQL and Linux.  • Designed and implemented a dedicated MYSQL database server to drive the web apps report on daily progress.  • Used Django framework for application development.  • Wrote unit test cases for testing tools.  • Collaborated with internal teams to convert end user feedback into meaningful and  Improved solutions.  • Develop and execute test plans, test cases, bug reports and scenarios for functional and regression testing.  • Enhanced existing automated solutions, such as the Inquiry Tool for automated  • Asset Department reporting and added new features and fixed bugs.  • Embedded AJAX in UI to update small portions of the web page avoiding the need to reload the entire page.  • Managed and administered all No-SQL database systems.  • Improved performance by using more modularized approach and using more in built methods.  • Performed data manipulation/storage for incoming test data using lxml /etree  libraries.  • Developed API modularizing existing python module with the help of pyyaml libraries.  • Designed and configured database and back end applications and programs.  • Performed research to explore and identify new technological platforms.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.4, Puppet Rspec, Linux, HTML, CSS, JQuery, JavaScript, BugZilla, Apache, Linux, Git, Perl. Web developer Rofous - Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh August 2011 to March 2012 Responsibilities:  • Developed the web application using MS SQL SERVER, HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed the front end of the portal using HTML, JavaScript, AJAX and CSS.  • Used JavaScript as the scripting language and is used for detecting the visitor's browser, validating the forms, providing event functions, animation etc.  • Used JavaScript to provide AJAX functionality to make website perform better for image loading and for dynamic loading of the web page without refreshing.  • Designed and Developed Database using MS SQL. Extensively used CRUD operations while maintaining the database.  • Used jQuery extensively for event handling, DOM manipulation and cross-browser compatibility.  • Performed extensive unit testing (end-to-end) and prepared detailed test scripts as part of it.  • Involved in setting up the environment, installing the application and web servers.    Environment: MS SQL, HTML AJAX, JavaScript, CSS, DOM, XML, jQuery, SVN. Skills CSS (4 years), HTML (4 years), JAVASCRIPT (4 years), jQuery (4 years), Git (4 years) Additional Information Technical Expertise  Operating Systems Linux (Red Hat 5/6.5, CentOS 6/7, Ubuntu), Windows, MAC OSX  Languages Python, Core Java, Ruby  Scripting languages JavaScript, JQuery, CSS, AJAX, PHP, Shell Scripting  Markup languages HTML, XML, JSON  Analytics Tools NodeXL  Databases My SQL, MongoDB, MS SQL  Servers Apache Tomcat and IBM Web sphere  IDEs Sublime text, PyCharm,Notepad++  Methodologies & tools Agile Scrum, Waterfall Model, UML  Tracking Tools Jira, Confluence, BugZilla  Version Control Systems GIT, SVN, CVS  MS office tools Microsoft Excel, Microsoft Word, PowerPoint