Full Stack Developer / Designer Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> / Designer Full Stack Developer / Designer Bronx, NY Self-motivated and creative full-stack developer looking to create a digital impact Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Full Stack Developer / Designer Roomly - Bronx, NY January 2019 to Present • Created and deployed a full stack hotel/room listing web application with Heroku.  • Leveraged branding experience to create logos using Illustrator, mobile and web mockups using  Adobe XD, and engineer a mobile friendly responsive front-end utilizing Bootstrap 4 and EJS.  • Developed direct experience in proper RESTful routing, and in NoSQL technology like MongoDB  (schema modelling, CRUD operations, pagination, indexing, cluster deployment and management  with MongoDB Atlas) using Mongoose.  • Implemented multiple user image upload and CRUD capabilities with the Cloudinary API and Multer Express middleware.  • Constructed geolocation and cluster maps to display listing locations utilizing the Mapbox API.  • Added a password reset feature that utilizes emails for verification using the SendGrid API.  • Integrated Google OAuth and local user authentication strategies with PassportJS.  • Migrated initial front-end framework from Bootstrap 3 to Bootstrap 4 and upgraded JS ES2015  syntax and callbacks to employ modern JavaScript ES6 practices for a cleaner code base. React Developer Video Browser - Bronx, NY March 2019 to March 2019 Developed reusable react components to create a web app that utilizes the YouTube API to search for videos, play videos, and display related videos. Python Developer Pytris - Binghamton, NY November 2017 to December 2017 Created a clone of the popular puzzle game Tetris using the Open Source Python game library  Pygame and included a 2D 3 lane car dodging game within the GUI called Road Rage. Founder/Treasurer S.H.I.N.E. - Binghamton, NY August 2014 to May 2016 Founded a non-profit student-run organization, with 6 other students, focused on tackling trending issues through awareness, volunteer opportunities, fundraising, and general body meetings.  • Created logos, flyers, advertisements, and merchandise designs in Adobe Illustrator/Photoshop.  • Monitored, recorded, and reported on the org's expenditures, and budget weekly. Brainstormed  annual org events to successfully fundraise $2k scholarships for at risk high school students. Education Bachelor of Arts in Mathematics and Minor in Computer Science Binghamton University, State University of New York - Binghamton, NY August 2018 Skills Java, Node, Python, Javascript, Nodejs, Jquery, React, MongoDB, Redux, HTML, SASS, ES6, Express, Ruby, .NET, NET Links http://www.github.com/E-Rick http://www.erickjr.com Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  • Languages: JavaScript ES2015/ES6, Java, HTML5, CSS3, SCSS, C++, Python, C, Ruby  • Frameworks/Technologies: NodeJS, React, Redux, React-Router, MongoDB, Mongoose, jQuery,  ExpressJS, Bootstrap 4, EJS, JSX, AJAX, NPM  • Design Tools: Adobe XD CC, Illustrator 2019, Adobe Photoshop 2018, Prototyping, Wire framing  • Developer Tools: Visual Studio Code, Postman, Git, GitHub, Trello, NPM, Webpack, Babel