Senior Python Application Programmer/ Developer Senior <span class="hl">Python</span> Application Programmer/<span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Python Application Programmer/ Developer - Bank of America Work Experience Senior Python Application Programmer/ Developer Bank of America - Charlotte, NC September 2018 to Present Responsible for developing, enhancing, modifying and/or maintaining applications in the Global Markets environment. Have developed design, code, test, debug and document programs as well as support activities for the corporate systems architecture. Worked closely with business partners in defining requirements for system applications. Proficient capital markets product knowledge and manage a high level of risk. Individual contributor role. Have spent the recent weeks producing consistent, consolidated risk reports spanning the whole FICC business, running high-performance ticking intraday risk for trading desks, and explaining PnL across the global business. The team development environment is Quartz - the bank's next generation trading and risk platform and have learned a basic understanding of the platform. Software Engineer/Data Engineer Coding Temple - Chicago, IL January 2018 to August 2018 • Developed web applications using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AngularJS, Python, Django, and SQL..  • Developed dynamic front and and backend applications using Python, Flask frameworks.  • Data Analysis, Data Wrangling and development of algorithms in R and Python for data mining and analysis  • Python NumPy, SciPy, Pandas packages to perform dataset manipulation  • Utilized CSS to make the application responsive/ designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Designed various time series forecasting models to predict the various major metrics Used  • Responsible for Creating/maintaining complex sql queries, custom queries, views, and stored procedures.  • Understanding, ingesting and querying data using SQL and ensure smooth flow end to end  • Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects  • Developed User Interface using front-end technologies like HTML, CSS, JavaScript  Environment: Python, Flask, JavaScript, Pandas, SQL, MySQL, MongoDB Jr. Python Developer/Jr. Data Scientist CamSoft Inc - Bridgewater, NJ January 2016 to January 2018 • Work in a fast-paced environment while ensuring product quality  • Created Business Logic using Python to create Planning and Tracking functions  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, to build an interactive web-based solution  • Used SQL database in MySQL, PostgreSQL, SQLite and MongoDB.  • Experience using Web Services and API's in Python  Environment: Python, Flask, JavaScript, Pandas, SQL, MySQL Education Wayne State University- Irvin D Reid Honors College - Detroit, MI 2011 to 2015 Links http://vamsiatluru.com https://www.linkedin.com/in/vloo412 Additional Information Technical Skills  Programming Languages: Python, Java, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, SQL, R  Web Technologies/Development Frameworks: Numpy, Pandas, Flask, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, BootstrapUI  Database: SQL, MySQL, SQLite, Mangodb  Tools/Methodologies: GitHub, Tableau, Anaconda, Jupyter Notebook, Atom, Agile Software Development, Scrum, Data Modeler, Tableau  Cloud Technology  Software: Microsoft Office (Word, Excel, PowerPoint)