Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Actively Looking for Full-time Opportunities | Electrical and Computer Graduate | IIT Chicago Atlanta, GA Around 2+ years of professional hands-on experience in Python Development with expertise in web applications, analytical programming, scripting, and embedded applications as well.    Good experience with various programming languages, libraries and frameworks, software and hardware tools - as mentioned in details below:    Programming Skills:-  •Languages: Python, SQL, C, AWS, Assembly(EASy68K) Language, MATLAB, VHDL, Verilog  • Python Libraries: NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib, Pandas data frame, urllib3, SQLite, etc.  •Frameworks: Django, Flask, Pyramid  •IDEs: Jupyter, PyCharm, Visual Studio, Eclipse  •Operating Systems: Windows 10/8/7, Mac, Unix/Linux    Non-Programming Skills:-  •Hardware Platforms: PIC, ARM, Arduino IDE (ATmega8), Pynq (Zynq XC7Z020), Cisco Packet Tracer  •EDA Tools: Cadence Virtuoso, OrCAD Capture, HSPICE, PSPICE, EAGLE, Proteus, Visual Studio, ModelSim  •Telecommunication: GSM, CDMA, TCP/IP, UDP, Bluetooth, WLAN, Routers, Switches, Modems Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Aztech Technologies LLC - Wilmington, DE October 2018 to Present •  Developed web-based applications using Python, Django, Flask XML and JSON.  •  Developed Python applications (libraries used: beautifulsoup4, NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib, Pandas data frame, urllib3, SQLite, mysql-connector (for database connectivity) and IDEs - PyCharm, Jupyter, Visual Studio.  •  Worked on Bash shell scripts while maintaining applications built in Bash and scheduling their periodic execution using cron in UNIX-like Operating Systems.  •  Experienced in Object Oriented Programming concepts and using REST API's and web service in Python.  •  Refactored and upgraded various Perl codes by converting the scripts and re-establishing the functionality in Python.  •  Developed and maintained projects on version control systems such as Git, GitHub, and Apache Subversion. Embedded System Engineer Aztech Technologies LLC - Wilmington, DE July 2018 to September 2018 •  Developed electronics for embedded hardware devices and performed their validation - internally and externally through various working prototypes.   •  Created product hardware design documentation including but not limited to block diagrams, BOMs, state diagrams, PCB layout guidelines, product specifications and user instructions.   •  Performed designing, debugging and testing of the hardware used inflight entertainment and cabin management systems.  •  Developed Python application that would allow transfer of log files from Linux computer to Linux server using the concept of multithreading.  •  Designed & developed APIs using both C & Python to facilitate the integration of modems with the third-party hardware.  •  Wrote Python scripts to migrate the data from text to excel document. Internal Secretary IEEE - Eta Kappa Nu, Epsilon Iota Chapte - Chicago, IL April 2017 to May 2018 • Responsible for conducting technical projects and event for graduate and under graduate students at Illinois Institute of Technology. Research Assistant Illinois Institute of Technology - Chicago, IL April 2017 to May 2018 •  Developed firmware in assembly language with 8051 cross assembler and linker.  •  Implemented RS-232, RS-485, SPI, I2C, and various other communication protocol libraries to establish communication between micro controllers and peripherals.  •  Designed and developed various Python modules and created scripts for server-side data processing.  •  Wrote MySQL database queries in connection with Python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  •  Developed the entire front-end and back-end modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  •  Wrote various Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  •  Worked with pytest, unittest, and various other Python testing modules for testing the functionality of the applications.  •  Based on varying requirements, performed conversions of high-end Bash scripts into Python and vice-versa.  •  Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all the commands.  •  Paired up with design team to understand end-user requirements and provide technical solutions. Python Developer LuminoGuru Pvt Ltd - Mohali, Punjab June 2015 to July 2016 •  Developed a variety of custom modules using Python for the integration of different types of network circuits.  •  Wrote various scripts in Python for extracting the data from HTML files.  •  Developed Python routines to automatically log into the websites and fetch desired data from selected tables under different option and used Python modules such as requests, urllib, and urllib2 for web crawling.  •  Performed code optimization to significantly reduce the program execution time using multiprocessing.  •  Developed Python and Shell scripts to obtain the details for network devices by implementing complex regex.  •  Held meetings with clients and worked all alone for entire projects based on the requirements briefed in the meetings. Embedded Intern NETMAX Technologies - ch March 2014 to August 2014 •  Performed circuit designing including schematic capturing using OrCAD design suite, engineering circuit layout for PCBs, optimizing the design and etching layout on the PCBs.   •  Worked with PIC and Arduino and developed firmware for different module interfaces like, Switches, LCD, LED, Motors, GSM/GPRS/SMS, and Sensors (Ultrasonic, RF, IR, LDR, TSOP), etc.  •  Wrote drivers for SPI, I2C, UART, USB to set up initial infrastructure for communication between different hardware.  •  Developed firmware for projects including: Line Follower, RF based robot and DTMF/GSM-based Robot. Intern Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited (BSNL) - Haryana August 2013 to October 2013 •  Explored GSM network architecture at functional-level to keep track of end-to-end connectivity.  •  Worked on GUI for customers, which let them recharge call service and at the same time, keep track of call details.  •  Managed and performed routine data backup tasks for VoIP System, used Office Safe Backup software for VoIP system.  •  Performed testing, troubleshooting and configuration of Cisco switches and Cisco routers.  •  Gained Working knowledge of network features and protocols such as TCP/IP V4/V6, ARP, EIGRP, OSPF and BGP. Education Master of Electrical and Computer Engineering in Electrical and Computer Engineering Illinois Institute of Technology - Chicago, IL August 2016 to May 2018 Bachelor of Electronics and Communication Engineering Kurukshetra University - Kurukshetra, Haryana August 2011 to June 2015 Skills ARM (Less than 1 year), CISCO (Less than 1 year), EMBEDDED C (1 year), HTML (2 years), Assembly Language(EASy68K) (Less than 1 year), Arduino (1 year), Python (3 years), OrCAD (2 years), Cadence Virtuoso (1 year), Robotics, GIT (2 years), Pycharm (3 years), Visual Studio (2 years), Django (1 year), Flask (1 year), Tensor Flow (1 year), bash (2 years), mysql (2 years), AWS (Less than 1 year), unix (2 years), C (3 years), C++ (1 year), restful (1 year), Docker (1 year), Github (2 years), Linux, Numpy Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/swatisharmaece/