Application Developer - Freelance Data Consultant at Evolution Application <span class="hl">Developer</span> - Freelance Data Consultant at Evolution Application Developer - Freelance Data Consultant at Evolution - MongoDB Edison, NJ Around 5 years of IT Experience in designing, developing, testing and implementing of various stand-alone and client-server architecture based enterprise application software in Python on different domains.    • Proven IT Professional witharound 5years of coding experience with Python, MYSQL, C#, Dot Net, HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, AJAX, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Experienced with full software development life-cycle (SDLC), object-oriented programming, database design and agile methodologies.  • Experienced with Python Libraries like NumPy, Pandas, Matplotlib, SciPy, requests, pymysql, pymongo.  • Experience with Relational DB (RDBMS) like SQLite, MYSQL, Oracle and document based (NoSQL) databases like MongoDB.  • Experience with C# and Dot Net with back-end database.  • Experienced with JSON based REST and Amazon Web services.  • Experience with SOAP web services and REST web services.  • Implemented responsive web pages using HTML, CSS, Bootstrap and XML/JSON.  • Experience with the implementation of the version control software like Git and TFS.  • Having good knowledge in using NoSQL database such as MongoDB (2.6, 2.4) and SQL database.  • Documentation of Architecture, Design and Operational procedures.  • Good knowledge in working with application server- Apache Tomcat  • Experienced with Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python(WAMP) and Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python (LAMP)Architecture.  • Excellent working knowledge in UNIX and Linux shell environments using command line utilities.  • Assisted in Developing testing plans and procedures for Unit testing/Test Driven Development, system test, and Load testing.  • Good understanding of Python Best Practices(PEP-8).  • Experience with different IDE's like JetBrainsPyCharm, spyder, Jupyter Notebook and Visual Studio.  • Strong in writing SQL queries and procedures and functions.  • Fluent with UNIX, Linux and shell scripting.  • Ability to learn and adapt quickly to the emerging new technologies and paradigms.  • Experience in working with different operating system UNIX, Windows 98/NT/2000/XP/Vista/7/8.  • Hands on experience deploying projects in production and staging environment.  • Expert at parsing, scripting, logging and migrating data.  • Experience with new Virtual Environments like Citrix.  • Efficient team member with excellent work/time management skills, communications and Interpersonal Skills, ability to work under strict deadlines. Work Experience Application Developer - Freelance Data Consultant at Evolution MongoDB Present Responsibilities:  • Application for scraping data from brokerage sites.  • Deploying the application into AWS / MongoDB to generate closing settlement graphs.  • Visualizations of vendor specific historical data of settlement market.  • Wrote scripts to Import and Export data to CSV, EXCEL formats from different environments using Python and REST API call.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  • Worked on Django ORM for front end.  • Writing scripts for NoSQL MongoDB back end.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters. Freelancer Python, SQL May 2017 to December 2017 Software Developer  • Worked to develop an SQL query generator to automate data collection and testing to minimize recurring task hours.  • A Java application to integrate and create synthetic dataset as per the input queries using Agile framework.  • Created entire application using Python, Django, MySQL and Linux.  • Experienced in Agile Methodologies.  • Managed code versioning with Github and deployment to staging and production servers.  • Regular interaction with developers at different locations in resolving issues successfully. Python Developer Research- Rochester Institute of Technology August 2016 to August 2017 Responsibilities:  • A business prediction model to ascertain the server down time depending on the day of the week, time of the day and also on student records.  • An automated SQL query developer for union and join queries.  • A library management portal to keep track of inventory and sending notification to students and the desktop manager via email to alert student of returns and reservations. Python Developer/Programmer Analyst Cognizant - Chennai, Tamil Nadu August 2013 to November 2015 Responsibilities:  • Worked in a team of five as a Software Developer/Programmer Analyst with extensive work on Python and C#.  • Involved in application development, enhancement and design for Medidata Rave form development with SQL backend.  • Unit testing and defect fixing to enhance the application.  • Involved in providing end-to-end support for post-production application maintenance.  • Created reports on Cognos and Krystal tools for cumulative application downtime, ticket resolution hours for constant improvement of team efforts.  • Worked in stages such as analysis and design, development, testing and debugging and Involved in Unit testing and Integration testing.  • Designed and managed build and release methodologies.  • Used Design patterns efficiently to improve the code reusability.  • Reporting Issues using Excel to senior members in the team  • Creating database schema for MySQL Database and helped to draw ER-Diagrams using Microsoft Visio.  • Migration of Test Content to Automation Tool using Python and XML.  • Found critical bugs in the firmware and helped other teams in making the software stable.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Decent experience in UNIX in developing the application and familiar with all of its commands.  • Wrote script in Python and Expect API for running commands/programs on remote servers.  • Provided maintenance support 24*7.  • Built a web interface pages in PHP and Python to view status of load.  • Experienced in using Sharepoint for maintaining Software Developer Indian Bank - Chennai, Tamil Nadu December 2012 to May 2013 Responsibilities:  • Implemented Graphical Password Authentication system using ASP.NET and C# with JavaScript validation and jQuery for functionalities.  • Designed and implemented a web based portal for application and status tracking for Educational Loan application.  • A web application to initiate loan application by document collection, scraping of important details from a submitted document, andhierarchical transfer of application to higher authorities once the form is reviewed and authenticated by lower officials.  • Worked in updating internal ATM and Pension related websites using WCF in ASP.net and C#. A periodic status track of ATM software to alert and monitor the downtime. Jr. Software Developer United Techno Info Systems - Chennai, Tamil Nadu June 2011 to July 2011 Responsibilities:  • Developed the Visitors Information Module using HTML and MS Access and SQL. Education Masters of Science in Computer Science Rochester Institute of Technology - Rochester, NY Bachelor of Technology in Information Technology Sri Venkateshwara College of Engineering Affiliated - Chennai, Tamil Nadu Graduate Studies Rochester Institute of Technology Skills SQL (3 years), PYTHON (2 years), MYSQL (2 years), C# (2 years), CODA (2 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:  Programming Languages: C#, Java, Python, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, SQL, Cognos, Krystal Reports, R scripts, WPF, WCF, Swift  Standards and Frameworks: JavaEE, ASP.NET, Linux  Tools: Microsoft Office Suite (Expert), Eclipse, MS SQL Server, MySQL, PyCharm, R, iOS, IntelliJ  Version Control Tools: GIT, SVN  Frameworks: Django ORM    Operating Systems: Windows, UNIX, Linux    Projects Summary:  • Currently Developed a movie recommendation system app using sentimental analysis of amazon reviewer dataset in Swift.  • Worked on Analysis of Work Satisfaction of Employees in US using the world survey dataset from 1960 till 2000 in Python.  • Built a prediction model for Author-Paper Identification Problem using Python and R.  • Implemented a system for computer vision of identifying different manufacturing parts of a factory using edge and filter detection and classifying the parts for future prediction in R and Python.