Senior Software Engineer Senior Software Engineer Senior Software Engineer - Wipro Limited Looking for a career in information technology that is inspiring & challenging which lets me use my knowledge and exposure to practical use and also perform at highest quality levels and contribute to the profitability and development of the organization. Work Experience Senior Software Engineer Wipro Limited December 2018 to Present having 6.5 years of experience. Earlier worked on Web development and Application development. I also worked on Test Automaton framework creation. I have basic knowledge of OpenStack and have good knowledge on SAN Management. I worked on IoT project using Raspberry pi.    Company: Wipro Limited  Client: Cisco India  Duration: 4 months  Project Title: Cisco  Role: Senior Software Engineer    ? Network Security Appliance maintenance.  ? Debugging code.  ? Fixing defects.  ? Feature enhancement. Technical Lead Tata Consultancy Services Limited June 2018 to December 2018 Web Based tool development using J2EE, Django, HTML, Bootstrap, Javascript, AJAX, JQuery.  ? Backend Script Development using Shell Script and Python.  ? Database Design using oracle. Python Developer Tata Consultancy Services Limited December 2017 to June 2018 Python Development  ? Code contribution to the open source cloud platform.  ? Submitting Blueprints, use cases identification and bug fixing. Python Developer NEC Technologies India Pvt Ltd December 2015 to December 2017 Python Development and bug fixing.  ? Excelled in identifying and executing the test cases & troubleshooting issues.  ? Created automation Test Framework and test cases using Python  ? Uncovered new bugs and reported. Testing Engineer NEC Technologies India Pvt Ltd May 2015 to December 2015 Experience in setting up the configurations and testing of RAID Controllers in SAN environments using Brocade and Cisco FC switches.  ? Ensure that there is 100% coverage of functionality.  ? Adherence to Quality processes and timelines.    Worked With  ? Python, Django  ? Java, J2EE  ? AJAX, JQuery, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap framework  ? Shell Scripting  ? Oracle  ? C, C++ Links https://github.com/kaustavgithub/HomeAutomation Additional Information PROFESSIONAL SKILLS    Development Language: Python, Java, J2EE, Shell Scripting, ajax, jQuery, Node.js, pl/sql, Shell Script.  Framework Known: Django, Flask, Bootstrap, Angular (Basic)  Cloud knowledge: OpenStack, AWS, Azure  Database Management: Oracle, MongoDB (Basic).  Tool Used: GIT, SVN  Storage Arrays: NEC Storage (M100 FC and ISCSI, M300 ISCSI.  Storage Switch: Brocade, Cisco.  Operating Systems: RHEL 4 / 5 to RHEL 6.2, SLES 10.3, 11, 11 SP1 and Windows 2003/2008/2012.  Testing: Automate Test cases.    PERSONAL SKILLS    ? Short learning curve.  ? Detail and quality oriented, require minimal direction.  ? Cooperative relationship with developers, Ability to communicate with both technical and non-technical people.  ? Good understanding of entire Software Development Life Cycle.    DECLARATION    I hereby declare that the above-mentioned information is correct up to my knowledge and I bear the responsibility for the correctness of the above mentioned particulars.    Place: Kolkata NAME: Kaustav Das  Date: 26th Feb, 2019