Associate Instructor, Python Associate Instructor, <span class="hl">Python</span> Associate Instructor, Python - Indiana University Bloomington Work Experience Associate Instructor, Python Indiana University Bloomington August 2016 to Present Prepare quizzes, grade homework, and conduct lab sessions for 50 undergraduate students Developer Financial Integrated Service Layer Development November 2015 to June 2016 Developed processes to convert data from various formats to integrate them into useful modules in health public  services.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the  XML and JSON format.  • Created ETL jobs to load JSON data and server data into MySQL and transported MySQL into the Data Warehouse.  • Communicated with clients and demonstrated writing skills in creating documentation, while working in an Agile  Environment. Programmer Analyst Cognizant Technology Solutions - IN November 2013 to June 2016 Data analyst United Healthcare Business Service April 2015 to November 2015 • Developed multiple MapReduce jobs in Java for claims data cleaning and preprocessing.  • Integrated Hadoop into traditional ETL, accelerating the extraction, transformation, and loading of massive structured and unstructured healthcare claim processing data.  • Handled all Medicaid, Medicaid HMO, Medicare, Medicare HMO claims from billing to payment/resolution, ensuring  effectiveness and accuracy of claim submission and processing for timely payment.  • Developed PLSQL stored procedures to analyze claims for data corrections.  • Troubleshoot ETL failures and performed manual loads using SQL stored procedures. Developer United Health Care Settlements Portal Development November 2013 to April 2015 • Developed a portal depicting the overall insurance settlement data for eight states in the United States.  • Developed front end using Java and Backend database was mainframe DB2. Education Master of Science in Data Science Indiana University - Bloomington, IN May 2018 Bachelor of Technology in Electronics and Communication Engineering Rajasthan Technical University June 2013 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Languages: Python, Java, R, C++, SQL, C  ETL Tools and Analytical packages Pandas, SciPy, NumPy, Scikit-Learn, Mule, Talend  Databases Mysql, db2, Microsoft SQL Server  Data Warehousing tools Hadoop  Web Development HTML, JavaScript, CSS, Java EE  Machine Learning Models Regression, Neural networks, SVM, Association rules, Random-forests