Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Onblick Over 1 year of IT experience as a Software Engineer, designing, developing, analyzing and testing software along with enhancing performance and dealing with problems in high-traffic multi-tier architectures dealing with both client-side and server-side applications.  • Expert knowledge and experience in Object oriented Design and Programming concepts dealing with algorithms, data structures and operating systems.  • Expertise in development using Python (libraries used: libraries- Beautiful Soup, numpy, scipy, Matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas, network, urllib2, MySQL dB, psycopg2 for postgres and pymongo for mongo DB connections) and IDEs - sublime text, Spyder, pycharm, emacs, vim, code-insiders, pydev, eclipse, atom-editor.  • Experience in python, Django, Pyramid and Flask Framework  • Good knowledge in GUI frameworks - Tkinter, WxPython, PyQt.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, XML, JSON, BSON, CSS, HTML, DHTML, XHTML, JavaScript and JQuery, RESTful, MVT architecture, AJAX.  • Working experience in implementing SOAP/RESTful web services in JSON, XML format.  • Experience in analyzing and handling large datasets using Oracle Relational Database 9g, 10g, 11g, Postgres, MySQL.  • Have good knowledge on No-Sql databases like Cassandra, Mongo dB and Redis(for caching).  • Good knowledge in maintaining various version controls systems such as SVN and GIT.  • Have good Knowledge of Agile Methodologies (Scrum).  • Experienced in Shell Scripting (BASH, SH), UNIX and Linux, Open stack.  • Experienced in writing SQL Queries, Stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, triggers in RDMS databases.  • Understanding of Python best Practices (PEP-8, PEP-232)  • Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Have Experience in working with Data Sciences using python and Common Networking Protocols and Architecture like HTTP, SSL.  • Good idea about testing tools like Bugzilla and JIRA.  • Maintained detailed documentation and architectural solutions in IT infrastructure and sales systems.  • Skilled in Debugging/troubleshooting issues in complex large code-base applications.  • Experienced in Unit testing, Integration testing, User acceptance testing, Functional testing using Pyunit, the de-facto python unit test framework for web based applications.  • Active Participation in Full Development Life Cycle (Requirements, Design, Architecture, Development, Testing).  • Experience with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Onblick - Dallas, TX July 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Developed full stack applications using python's Django framework as the back-end and jinja templating system.  • Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  • Used Test driven approach for developing the application and Implemented the unit tests using Python Unit test framework.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript..  • Developed Python scripts to monitor health of Mongo databases and perform ad-hoc backups using Mongo dump and Mongo restore.  • Developed Dynamic SQL queries in Oracle database using DBMS_SQL package to by-pass manual effort required for the tasks involved.  • Designed front end using UI, HTML, Bootstrap, Node JS, Angular JS CSS, and JavaScript.  • Involved in the Complete Software development life cycle (SDLC) to develop the application.  • Ensured high quality data collection and maintaining the integrity of the data.  • Cleaned data and processed third party spending data into maneuverable deliverables within specific formats with Excel macros and python libraries.  • Implemented the frontend and backend using, JavaScript, Python Framework, and Neo4j  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Placed data into JSON files using Python to test Django websites.  • Used Python scripts to update the content in database and manipulate files.  • Developed web based application using Django framework with python concepts.  • Generated Python Django forms to maintain the record of online users.  • Used Django API's to access the database.  • Involved in Python OOD code for quality, logging, monitoring, and debugging code optimization.  • Wrote Python modules to view and connect the Apache Cassandra instance.  • Developed tools to automate some base tasks using Python, Shell scripting and XML.  • Created Unit test and regression test framework for working and new code.  • Used Pyats to implement GUI for the user to create, modify and view reports based on client data.  • Developed efficient Angularjs for client web based application.  • Responsible for designing, developing, testing, deploying and maintaining the web application.  • Designed and developed the UI for the website with HTML, XHTML, CSS, Java Script and AJAX.  • Responsible for managing large databases using Pandas data frames and MySQL.  • Wrote and executed various MySQL database queries from Python-MySQL connector and MySQL db package.  • Involved in debugging and troubleshooting issues and fixed many bugs in two of the main applications which are main source of data for customers and internal customer service team.  • Implemented SOAP/RESTful web services in JSON format.  • Created Git repository and added the project to GitHub. Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django, scipy, Pandas, Spark, API, Bugzilla, SVN, Apache HTTP, Java, JQuery, MySQL, Linux, Eclipse, Shell Scripting, HTML5/CSS. Red hat Linux, RUBY, Cassandra, MongoDB, Redis Education Bachelor's in Computer Science Sri Venkateshwara University Masters University of Central Missouri - Warrensburg, MO Skills Git (1 year), HTML (1 year), JSON (1 year), PYTHON (1 year), SCRIPTING (1 year), Django, Java, C, Flask, Javascript Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Operating systems Windows, Ubuntu, , MacOS  Languages Java, C, Python  Scripting languages Html, CSS, AJAX, Java Script, PHP, AngularJS, JQuery  Markup languages HTML, XML, JSON  Servers Apache Server, NGINX, Apache Tomcat, IBM Websphere, open stock, RESTful web Services  Databases Oracle, My SQL, Query languages: PLSQL, Postgres  IDEs/ Tools Eclipse, Sublime text, Spyder, Jmeter, Pycharm  Revision Controlling Systems CVS, Git (Bit bucket, GitHub), SVN  Methodologies & tools Object Oriented Programming, UML, Agile Scrum