Application Developer Application <span class="hl">Developer</span> Application Developer - Accenture / State of NC Raleigh, NC A Full Stack Developer With focus on developing and improving real world applications that make a difference. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Application Developer Accenture / State of NC May 2016 to Present Worked as a part of a team on the development of the electronic vendor portal application's initial release and upgrades on the subsequent releases. Worked on Ariba Buyer customization. Worked on Oracle EBS Customization. Worked on creating and modifying Crystal reports. Worked on maintenance of eQuote application using the dynamo framework. Software developer June 2015 to January 2016 Multivision  • Was provided Training in developing applications that utilize spring framework, Junit, html, jQuery. Teaching Assistant University of New Hampshire January 2015 to May 2015 Responsible for handling labs and revision classes for First and second year students mainly in core java, swings. Python Programming Assistant University of New Hampshire January 2015 to May 2015 Assisted in collecting data through usage of scrapy framework and Anaconda Library written in python from website that lets people download 3D models of products and print them. Education MS in Computer science University of New Hampshire - Durham, NH August 2013 to May 2015 BE in Computer science T John Institute of Technology - Bengaluru, Karnataka August 2008 to May 2012 Skills Amazon Elastic Block Storage (1 year), ARIBA (1 year), ARIBA BUYER (1 year), BUYER (1 year), BUYING/PROCUREMENT (1 year) Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/janarreddy Additional Information SKILLS & ABILITIES  Frameworks/Modules: Spring framework, spring boot, spring batch, Spring webflow, spring security. SOAP Web service, Junit 4, AspectJ, Hibernate, Hibernate Search, Java, apache camel, apache MQ, Dynamo framework. Ariba Buyer, IBM MQ.  Servers: apache tomcat, IBM WebLogic  Code Management: Perforce  CI Tool: Jenkins  UI: thymeleaf, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery  IDE: Spring STS, SQL Developer, SOAPUI  Database/tools: Oracle EBS, crystal reports, PLSQL, Oracle 9i/12c, MsSQL.