Software Engineer ( Python) Software Engineer (<span class="hl">Python</span>) Python Developer Orlando, FL I am a highly curious individual who finds interest in many areas. In particular, I am a lover of computer software, foreign languages, and classical music. In particular, I enjoy programming in Python, Java, and Haskell, writing back-end code, and tinkering with different software libraries. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Engineer ( Python) Sonobi - Orlando, FL June 2014 to Present Responsibilities  • Maintain, extend, and optimize real time bidding (RTB) software infrastructure for online advertising using Python.  • Support data mining operations to shepherd terabytes of data via several warehousing process across multiple data centers.  • Document internal systems for training purposes and go-to knowledge.  • Manage the reporting pipeline to add new reports, shore up integrity of legacy reports and aggregations, and ensure the maintainability of the system.  • Rapidly built out a working prototype solution for an optimization problem using a genetic algorithm. Instructor Aristle Gifted Institute - Hong Kong May 2013 to March 2014 • Taught gifted students to enhance their talents by accelerating their multiple intelligences.  • Planned and developed curriculum for gifted, talented, and high functioning autistic students.  • Wrote monthly student reports on academic and social progress of gifted students.  • Communicated with high profile and often challenging parents/customers in a diplomatic manner.  • Taught specially tailored lesson plans to both highly gifted students and students with special needs.  • Master of ceremonies at multiple events hosted by the institute. Android Developer Longcat Labs - ??? July 2012 to November 2012 • Developed and published an app to interactively browse and search the Beijing subway system and tourist destinations using Open Street data to render maps from the device rather than being reliant on a network connection.  • Developed and published an app to browse an SQLite database catalog of both nuclear power plant parts suppliers and nuclear power plants in China.  • Performed maintenance on previously developed software, keeping them up to date. Web Developer Intern Stetson University - DeLand, FL May 2010 to August 2010 • Trained other interns in web technologies such as HTML, Javascript, and CSS.  • Developed a prototype web based board game for an on campus client using technologies such as MySQL, PHP, Javascript.  • Collaborated with the manager to redesign the campus directory database schema to provide more efficient search capabilities.  • Designed forms and parsed form data for the various functions occurring around the campus. Education Non Degree in Chinese Language Renmin University - ??? 2011 to 2012 Bachelor of Science in Computer Science Stetson University - DeLand, FL 2007 to 2011 Skills Python, Amazon Web Services (AWS), Linux/Unix, Java, C, C++, OpenCL, vim, Javascript, SQL, Flask Links http://github.com/rdavison Additional Information Languages: English (native), Spanish (native), Mandarin Chinese (limited working proficiency), Cantonese (limited working proficiency)  Interests: Music Performance (bassoon, 13 years), Dvorak keyboard, Haskell