Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Ruby on Rails Developer Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Vertical Ops - Orem, UT January 2016 to Present Responsibilities  Python software developer. Ruby on Rails Developer Game Gear March 2015 to September 2015 Built an advanced artwork approval system  ? Built an overdue notification system for internal management to track products going through the production line process.  ? RedisDB, Job scheduling  ? The system was old and terribly written so tracking down and fixing  bugs was a common requirement.  ? Built part of a new website using Foundation and fully responsive  design. (not live) Django Developer Perfect Pitch Tech August 2014 to January 2015 Split large Django Apps into smaller ones.  ? Redesigned PerfectPitchTech.com and TeleServe.com  ? comcustom events calandar system for ManGames.com  ? Google Material Design  ? AngularJS  ? Django Rest Framework Lead Developer / Partner Addibuy Inc July 2013 to January 2014 Built an advanced Auction system  ? SocketIO / WebSockets  ? Facebook and google OAuth API  ? Full DevOps Django Web Developer Velocity Webworks July 2011 to July 2013 Python / Django  ? Was on a team that built large scale projects  ? Individual project manager  ? Scaling apps  ? Multi-browser Testing including IE7  ? SSL Installation  ? E-Commerce Systems  ? Customer Support. Phone, e-mail, and in person Web Developer Utah Car and Truck Inc January 2010 to November 2010 Built and Maintained UtahCarandTruck.net  ? Joomla Backend  ? Custom PHP Joomla modules Education CS Dixie State College 2009 to 2011 Snow Canyon High School 2005 to 2008 Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/davejohnsonscg Additional Information SKILLS Django / Rails / Full Stack    Languages: Python, Ruby, Javascript, Coffeescript, PHP, Java, C++, Arduino  Frameworks: Django, Rails, AngularJS, Wordpress, Joomla, SMF  Web: HTML5, CSS3, SASS, LESS, Slim, Haml, Foundation v5, Bootstrap v3  Databases: MySQL, PostgreSQL, Redis, MongoDB, MSSQL  Repositories: Git, Mercurial, SVN, Github, Bitbucket  DevOps: CentOS, Ubuntu, Apache, Nginx, Postfix, Dovecot, Haystack/Solr, Vim  Other and API's: Google maps API, Authorize.NET, GoEMerchant, Websockets, MailCatcher,  Honeybadger, Capistrano, MailChimp, Jquery, Ajax, CAD, AutoCAD  Normal Env: Ubuntu 15.04, Jetbrains IDE's, Localdev, vim, Github, Jira, Slack/Hipchat    PROJECTS Websites / Arduino / Scripting    Since 2013: .A  Alpinecave.com recent project that will tie in Candition. AlpineCave will  be an online retailer of quality outdoor goods specifically geared toward the  canyoneering and hiking community.    Since 2011: .I  Candition.com built Candition in 27 days to learn Ruby on Rails, I found a  need and built a solution. Candition's purpose is to inform the canyoneering  community on the current conditions of slot canyons around the world. All  submissions are 100% user based and free.    Since 2008: SilverCG.com . Was my personal Blog filled with mountain biking adventures  and arduino projects, I was in the process of converting it to a portfolio website  up until I bought davejohnson.codes. I'll be converting it back into an Arduino  project blog.    Misc: Done work for Bogley.com, and Wildsurvive.com on the side. Arduino projects.