Java Developer Java <span class="hl">Developer</span> Arlington, TX Actively seeking a full-time software engineering position that will provide me an opportunity to utilize my technical skills. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Java Developer University of Texas at Arlington - Arlington, TX August 2015 to June 2016 Mav-Advisor   Technologies: Apache Tomcat, MySQL, JSP, HTML, CSS, Maven, JUnit, Cobertura, Selenium.   • Designed & developed a web-based advising application for the University that helps students to schedule an appointment with an advisor & tested it using JUnit, Cobertura and Selenium. iOS Mobile Application Developer HOVER Inc. - San Francisco, CA July 2015 to December 2015 Worked on the agile project to develop/debug the iOS application of Hover, which deals with generating 3D models of a house using captured images Android/ Mobile Application Developer University of Texas at Arlington - Arlington, TX August 2014 to December 2014 Grocery Organizer: Android application   Technologies: Java, Parse Database, Android Studio  • Developed an Android application for smart grocery shopping.  • Used Java in Android studio, Parse database as the backend. Used various APIs like speech to text, Calendars and Maps. Python Developer University of Texas at Arlington - Arlington, TX September 2014 to November 2014 Jobs Applications Prediction tool   Technologies: Python  • Developed a classifier for big data in Python that will predict which jobs a user will apply, based on the user and job profiles. iOS Mobile Application Developer Include Tech - Pune, Maharashtra February 2012 to July 2014 Some applications I worked on:  Verbs IM: A Simple Instant Messaging App for the iPhone and iPad  Technologies: SaaS, Objective-C, Swift, MongoDB, GitHub  • Used Objective-C, core data and various APIs to develop the app.   • Developed the publish/subscribe-messaging framework using MQTT.  Steps: An innovative task manager  Technologies: Objective-C, MySQL, GitHub  • Used Objective-C to develop and test the app and MySQL as the backend.  Scan: QR-Code scanner (Mac application)  Technologies: Objective-C, Github  • Used Objective-C to develop this scanner Mac application. Education Master's in Software Engineering University of Texas at Arlington - Arlington, TX 2014 to 2016 Skills Objective-C (3 years), Java (2 years), Android (2 years), IOS (3 years), Python (1 year), HTML (3 years), CSS (2 years), PHP (2 years), SQL (3 years), MySQL (2 years)