Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer • Over 3+ years of experience as an Single page and n-layer web applications using Python, Flask, ReactJs, Django, MySQL, CSS, HTML, Java script, MVC, AJAX.  • Involved in entire life cycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Good understanding in Object oriented design analysis.  • Experienced with Software Development Life Cycle, Database designs, agile methodologies, coding, testing of enterprise applications using IDE's such as PyCharm, WebStorm, Intellij and Visual Studio.  • Experienced in developing web application using Flask and Django.  • Experienced in python multiple libraries like Pandas, BeautifulSoup, urlib, numpy, scipy, json.s  • Experience in developing Single page Application using React Redux and Flux architectures.  • Experience in developing applications in Linux Environments such as Red Hat, CentOS, Ubuntu.  • Experience in Developing JSON based RestApI with Flask and Django rest ApI frameworks.  • Wrote AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings.  • Knowledge in Cloud platforms such as AWS EC2, Open Stack and Virtualization.  • Experienced in working with different operating systems like Windows, Ubuntu, Linux and UNIX.  • Experience in writing unit test and automation test using nose test, selenium, Robot Framework.  • Experience in writing SQL Queries, Stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, triggers.  • Familiar and developed JSON based REST Web services.  • Extensive use of Virtualization using Oracle Virtual Box and VMWare.  • Extensive experience with Object Oriented Design and SDLC methodologies using Rational Rose, Unified Modeling Language (UML).  • Understanding and Experience in shell scripting.  • Hands on experience with bug tracking tools such as JIRA and Bugzilla.  • Experienced in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM Process.  • Experience in using Version Control Systems like GIT, SVN. Good Experience with PEP-8 and Google coding Guidelines in Python.  • Good analytical and problem-solving skills and ability to work on own besides being a valuable and contributing team player.  • Excellent Interpersonal and communication skills, efficient time management and organization skills, ability to handle multiple tasks and work well in a team environment. Work Experience Python Developer Solar Turbines Sandiego, CA August 2017 to August 2017 Description: Solar turbines is a manufacturing sector. This project required data movement from the online systems to different downstream departments for decision and reporting purposes. Worked on varies python Modules and packages, Using Django MVC framework to develop the Web Application, Database modeling and design.    Responsibilities:  • Developed single page web application using Python, Django, ReactJS, HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Used panda's data framework for SAS business objects.  • Developed Views and Templates with Django view controller and template language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Implemented and enhanced CRUD operations for the applications using the Django ORM.  • Written Python Scripts to parse the XML documents and load the data in database.  • Developed JSON based rest API using Django Rest API Framework.  • Enhanced and developed admin interface using Django admin.  • Used React Axioms to use Ajax calls for GET, POST, DELETE and UPDATE requests.  • Wrote front end validations using ES6.  • Implemented react components and action dispatchers in React redux flow.  • Wrote python scripts to load and transform large data sets into MySQL database.  • Search engine optimization by replacing existing database with MongoDB (NoSQL Database).  • Wrote unit tests for views using Django unit test module and nose test.  • Used Selenium Libraries to write fully functioning test automation process.  • Worked on CI/CD environment on deploying application to Docker containers.  • Used Jenkins for Auto deployment and build management.  • Participated in requirement gathering and worked closely with the architect in designing and modeling.  • Worked in Agile development following Scrum process, Sprint and daily stand-up meetings  • Involved in the design, development and testing phases of application.  • Involved in code review and UAT for the modules built on daily basis.    Environment: Python, Django, React Js, MySQL, Linux, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, Apache Web Server, Git, Linux. Jr python developer LPL FINANCIAL, Sandiego March 2016 to June 2017 Description: LPL is the financial Advisor. My role is to develop a Web application for users for Retirement Plan Payments (RPP) to provide an automated web application for users to select, modify, and delete existing or new plans. This also allows users to manage their investments online to get the best market rates instantly.    Responsibilities:  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript  • Wrote python raw sql queries to django database agnostic for MySql and Oracle database.  • Created django class based REST API's for the application.  • Wrote JavaScript form validations for all the web pages in the application.  • Wrote ajax calls to get, post, delete REST API calls for upload and delete files.  • Used R analytics to perform data analysis and data representation via bar charts, graph charts.  • Wrote AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings.  • Developed TCP/IP, UDP networking scripts for internal file and data transfer.  • Used Python in-built libraries like, urllib, urllib2, os, multithreading and many advanced libraries to build automation libraries.  • Implemented automation script using Crontab in python to run the web crawler.  • Developed Python scripts to store read and write data to CSV files.  • Developed scripts to read and dump data to MySql database.  • Worked in Agile and scrum environment which includes daily standup and sprint planning.  • Created unit test and automation framework using nose test and selenium.  • Involved in Peer review and code review process.  Environment: Linux, Python, Django, Docker, Es6, Rest Framework, HTML, XML, JavaScript, jQuery, MySQL, Jenkins, Beautiful soup, Eclipse, Git, JIRA Software developer India Max Private Limited - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2015 to November 2015 Description: Internal applications were developed based on the client's requirements. GIT is used for maintaining versions of web applications. Django is used in backend development and UI is designed using HTML, CSS, and Bootstrap.    Responsibilities:  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, development, testing and deployment. Responsibilities include database design, code profiling and extensive documentation  • Experienced in writing indexes, views, constraints, stored procedures, triggers, cursors and user defined functions or subroutines in MySQL.  • Designed and implemented a dynamic image rendering which is consumed by PHP, JavaScript.  • Designed a Java application from the ground up that allows system administrators to configure and monitor an entire environment.  • Developed dynamic dashboard shows live configuration of using Java, Spring.  • Involved in designing and developing the front end of the application using Javascript, HTML, CSS and Bootstrap.  • Attended everyday Enterprise Workflow Stand-Up meeting to provide current status.  • Used Git as source control management giving a huge speed advantage on centralized systems.  • Integrated usage of CRUD operations, performed Inner/Outer joins, used store procedures, stored functions and cursors using MySQL.  • Played a vital role in team to ensure the time bound delivery.  Environment: Java, MySql, HTML, Javascript, Git, Web Services, CSS, Bootstrap, Eclipse Education Master's in technology University of central Missouri - Warrensburg, MO Skills CSS (1 year), DATABASE (1 year), DJANGO (2 years), Git (3 years), HTML (1 year) Links https://github.com/sushmitha0211 Additional Information SKILL SET:  Languages - PYTHON, Shell (Bash), C, C++, PHP,  HTML, JAVA SCRIPT, JQUERY, AJAX, CSS, HTML, XML  Web frameworks - FLASK, DJANGO, Node.js  Web server - APACHE SERVER, Apache HTTP, IIS 6.0  Database - ORACLE, MySQL, SQLite, PostgreSQL, MS SQL SERVER  Editors - vi, vim, Notepad++, Sublime text 3, PyCharm, Py Dev  Networking - FTP, IPC, TCP/IP, UDP, ZeroMQ  Operating systems - Mac OS X, Ubuntu, CentOS, Windows  Virtualization skills - VMware Workstation 10/11, Oracle Virtual Box  Tools - Jira, Git, Stash, SVN, Confluence, Jenkins