Freelance Web Developer Freelance Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Developer Saddle Brook, NJ Hard working web developer with a flair for creating elegant solutions in the least amount of time. Developed and maintained an online ecard website, customer web portal, and cms related web site. Passionate about python language and wanted to pursue it.    Web Technologies: Python, PHP, Perl, CMS, Forum, JavaScript  Operating System: MS-DOS, Windows  RDBMS: MySQL  Other Tools: MS Office, Smarty, HTML, CSS  Elementary Knowledge: Ajax, Apache, Linux, Lamp Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Freelance Web Developer April 2009 to May 2011 • Worked with clients on PHP 5 / 7, MySQL based web applications with a focus on projects.  • Manage Server Side Scripting and Front end Scripting. Create & Maintain Word Press websites.  • Modifying and extending open source applications like CMS, Joomla.  • Designed, developed, coded, tested and debugged system requirements for the purpose of conversions and development projects  • Modified different types of HTML, CSS related project. Python, PHP Developer Pixelsmedia Technologies - Kolkata, West Bengal January 2009 to March 2009 Roles and responsibilities:  • Developed dynamic and interactive website that ensured high traffic, page views, and User Experience.  • Designed and maintained databases using Python.  • Monitored quality metrics and executed automated tests.  • Tested and implemented applications built using Python.  • Support and maintenance of internal and external websites.  • Worked in internal projects using python. Web Developer Indusnet Technologies Ltd - Kolkata, West Bengal September 2008 to January 2009 Roles and responsibilities:  • Handled PHP backend development for dynamic database driven website  • Troubleshoot problems with PHP and other web technologies  • Modifying and extending open source applications like CMS, Vtiger. Web Developer Jhuns Infotech Pvt. Ltd - Kolkata, West Bengal January 2008 to August 2008 Roles and responsibilities:  • Handled PHP backend development for dynamic database driven website  • Handled support related project work.  • Modifying and extending open source applications like CMS, Joomla. Web Developer 123Greetings.com - Kolkata, West Bengal February 2007 to December 2007 Roles and responsibilities:  • Managed and maintained development of Perl and PHP backend for dynamic database driven websites  • Designed coded developed debugged and tested system specifications for conversion and development projects  • Kept track of website visitors through Perl scripting  • Managed updating of content on websites  • Designed and implemented Perl, MySQL solutions as per project specifications  • Collaborated with team members in the development of database structuring  • Designed, created and maintained CRON jobs, pulling internet traffic records, through Perl scripting. Education Master of Computer Application in Computer Application Doeacc 2006 Bachelor of Science in Mathematics in Mathematics University of Calcutta - Kolkata, West Bengal 2003 Skills PHP (4 years), Perl (3 years), MySQL (3 years), Python (Less than 1 year), Linux (1 year), HTML 5 (Less than 1 year), HTML (4 years), CSS (3 years), CSS3 (Less than 1 year)