Software Development Engineer In Test Software Development Engineer In Test Software Development Engineer In Test ? 4.7 Years of experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Quality Analysis (Automation and Manual) and Implementation of various stand-alone, client-server enterprise applications.  ? Complete Knowledge of Test Automation and manual testing.  ? Extensive knowledge in Java Core, Python, Selenium (Web driver and Remote Control), Jmeter, Java script, PowerShell, C#, ,Eggplant, Test Automation Framework, Shell Scripting, ASP .NET, REST API, Django, Arduino Microcontroller, Selenium, Eggplant, Robotics, UNIX and Linux.  ? Expertise Knowledge of Objected Oriented Concepts, Standard Template Library, Data Structures and Design patterns like MVC, MVVM etc.  ? Worked on Automation testing projects with Java, Python, Selenium Webdrivers, eggplant, PowerShell.  ? Good experience in developing testing Framework like BDD, Hybrid, Page Object Model, unittest, and pytest.  ? Developed a Test framework using Cucumber with Gherkin and Page Object Model also  ? Developed Testing Automation Frameworks like Data Driven, Behavior Driven and Hybrid.  ? Strong knowledge of database technologies like Oracle, MySQL, NoSQL, MS SQL SERVER.  ? Proficient in creating Stored Procedures, Functions, Views, Cursors using SQL/E-SQL.  ? Proficient in creating data structures and writing efficient algorithms.  ? Experience in multi-threading and synchronization.  ? Knowledge of Microsoft test Manager ,Team Foundation Server, JIRA.  ? Experience of testing products using VMs / multiple operating systems  ? Developed application using networking protocols like HTTP API's, TCP/IP, UDP, DHCP, and DNS.  ? Used socket programming for writing servers.  ? Developed robots by using servos and Arduino Microcontrollers.  ? Hands-on experience in Python scripting, Python STL, Pylons, Django, UI and web development.  ? Working experience with Python multithreading, paramiko, serial, database API's, Inter Process Communication and Networking(SSL Sockets, SSL Contexts , Certificates)  ? Created and executed automated software test plans, cases and scripts to uncover, identify and document software problems and their causes.  ? Transitioned software development efforts to a test-driven development (TDD) process, which brought QA testing in on the front-end of the development cycle for gains in code quality, software functionality and programmer productivity.  ? Assisted with user-acceptance testing (UAT) and defect tracking for three new software releases. Offered full-time UAT position after graduating from college (respectfully declined to accept software developer job.  ? Knowledge of SaaS Management Platform.  ? Knowledge of testing Framework like unittest  ? Knowledge of Embedded Control Software Architecture and Design..  ? Test Automation through Python and eggplant.  ? Experience in Firmware Testing.  ? Good Exposure in maintaining various version controls.  ? Experience in Agile and JIRA development techniques.  ? Keen on learning and adaptable to any platform.  ? Investigate potential defects, work with developers and analyst to isolate root cause, and drive resolution  ? Active Participation in full development life cycle (requirements, design, architecture, development, testing).  ? Hands-on experience in writing and reviewing requirements, architecture documents, test plans, design documents, quality analysis and audits.  ? Zeal to learn new language and technical skills.  ? Excellent analytical and problem solving skills and ability to work on own besides being a valuable and contributing team player. Work Experience Software Development Engineer In Test MediaMath Inc - New York, NY November 2014 to November 2014 Nov'14 - till no  Terminal One: Media Math's TerminalOne Marketing OS(TM) activates data, automates execution, and optimizes interactions across all addressable media - delivering greater performance, transparency, and control to all marketers and a better experience to every consumer. - See more at: http://www.mediamath.com/marketing-reengineered/terminalone-os/#sthash.n6gFVmde.dpuf    Roles and Responsibilities in the project:    • Developed BDD Framework for Test Automation using TestNg, Java, Selenium Webdriver and ANT, Maven.  • Prepared Traceability Matrix to show the test coverage requirement vs. Test scripts.  • Developed manual test scripts to evaluate Corporate Information Security Web based user authentication applications.  • Developed the Test Cases Client based on FSD'S and Business Rules; And for Web Client Test Cases based on Use Cases, Wire Frames, Annotated Documents and Business Rules.  • Hybrid framework with Selenium was developed and generic keywords were implemented.  • Used ANT to build and run the Selenium automation framework. Once the script got over, framework used to send the automation reports over email  • Certain portion of the project involved Flex designs. Flex application testing was also carried out using Selenium.  • Created and updated test scenarios, test plans, and test cases according to use case and design  • Participated in system walkthrough and inspection meetings to understand the business rules and system operation flows  • Created and executed test plans and scripts for all new functionality, regression, and stress testing conditions  • Published test results and progress metrics  • Used java script and flex for automating ajax and video related webpages.  • Directing Off-shore team from onsite and vendors from automation perspective.  • Identified and documented defects using JIRA to ensure applications functionality  • Good Exposure using ANT, generating custom reports and emailing them through framework  • Good exposure in Database testing using selenium.  • Configured test automation framework with Qmetry, Jenkins and Github.  • Executing SQL queries to view successful transaction for data validation  • Good Expertise on Exploratory Testing using Domain Knowledge  • Worked closely with Development team to resolve quality issues  . Environment: Java, Selenium( Web driver), Python, TestNg, BDD and Hybrid Framework, Cucumber, Maven, Shell Scripting, Jenkins, QMetry , GitHub, ANT, Manual Testing,, Eclipse, Shell Scripting, VNC, Agile and Scrum Methodology, Mac OS, Java script, flex. Automation Tester The Coca-Cola Company - Atlanta, GA September 2013 to November 2014 Freestyle Engineering and development: Coca-Cola Freestyle is a touch screen soda fountain introduced by The Coca-Cola Company in 2009. The machine features over 125 different Coca-Cola drink products and custom flavors. The machine allows users to select from mixtures of flavors of Coca-Cola branded products which are then individually dispensed. The machines are currently located in major Coca-Cola partners and retail locations as a part of a gradual and ongoing deployment. There is nothing like Coca-Cola Freestyle in the world of self-serve drink machines.  Roles and Responsibilities in the project:    • Developed Hybrid Framework for Test Automation using TestNg, Java, Selenium and ANT.  • Automated tool for continuous pouring mechanism with Python, Eggplant and Shell Scripting.  • Developed robots to perform Cartridge management as automation testing by using Arduino Microcontroller and servos.  • Created and executed automated software test plans, cases and scripts to uncover, identify and document software problems and their causes.  • Implement security features for the APIs.  • Created and executed test plans and scripts for all new functionality, regression, and stress testing conditions  • Published test results and progress metrics.  • Organize and facilitate reviews, inspections, and walkthroughs of test plans.  • Facilitate UAT Process in coordination with our Business Analysts  • Maximized the use of CollectD and RRD (Round-Robin Database) in developing the map, and generated a custom cost of network usage system that used LAMP and script with SNMP (Simple Network Management Protocol) in order to identify saturation level of drinks  • Maintaining correct values for Temperature, pressure, rerirc , solenoids of Gandalf dispensers through automated scripts.  • Created and executed test plans and scripts for all new functionality, regression, and stress testing conditions  • Published test results and progress metrics  • Framework development for end to end pouring for Bluebird and Gandalf dispensers.  • Created SSL Sockets and SSL Contexts to make inter process communication between C++ dll and Python.  • Multitasking from threads to increase the performance.  • Modules to communicate with IOC and IOM controllers.  • CDM interfacing to receive the responses at IOM end.  • Capturing all the Serial Logs for CDM, HMI, IOM and IOC.  • Designed and implemented automated testing tools and programs addressing areas including database impacts, software scenarios, regression testing, negative testing, error/bug retests and usability.  • Firmware development of python.  • Investigated potential defects, work with developers and analyzed to isolate root cause, and drive resolution.  • Added python logging framework.  • Test Automation through python, eggplant, Selenium.  • Acting as Onsite Coordinator.  • Reviewing work done by the team members.  • Working on Client specific tools and products.  .  .  Environment: Python 2.7, Java Core, Eggplant, Selenium( Web driver), TestNg, Hybrid Framework, Shell Scripting, Maven, Manual Testing, Arduino Microcontroller, Servos, C # , QnX, PowerShell, TFS, VMware Player, Eclipse, Shell Scripting, VNC, Agile and Scrum Methodology, Linux(Ubuntu), unittest Framework. Automation Tester Rockwell Automation - Milwaukee, WI September 2012 to September 2013 ViewE Edge Development & Testing: Rockwell is developing next generation HMI products used as operator interface in the industrial environment. These HMIs consist of touch panel and various buttons. Screen is used to display industrial process parameters and operation status in a graphical manner. Purpose of this project is to develop customized screens and screen components which can be integrated as per target application and also support back end communications to actual process control elements in the plant. The scope of this project involves development of highly user interactive screens for next generation HMI system.  Roles and Responsibilities in the project:    • Responsible for setting up networks through Design and Development.  • Testing of edges of using ViewE Designer tool with real life data from controllers.  • Testing the edges against Rockwell components with python  • Created and executed automated software test plans, cases and scripts to uncover, identify and document software problems and their causes.  • Implement security features for the APIs.  • Created and executed test plans and scripts for all new functionality, regression, and stress testing conditions  • Published test results and progress metrics.  • Organize and facilitate reviews, inspections, and walkthroughs of test plans.  • Development of EDGES using EDGE tool and Python image library.  • Framework to send responses to control elements from HMI responses.  • Created SSL Sockets and SSL Contexts to make inter process communication between .Net dll and Python.  • Development of EDGE tool. This is a IDE through which we develop our edges.  • Deploying the edge's on HMI ( Human Machine Interface)  • Added logging framework to capture the log to identify the GUI crashes and HMI responses on failures.  • Documented software defects using bug tracking system and reported defects involving program functionality, output, online screen and content to software developers.  • Delivered thorough QA testing reports that determined product quality and release readiness.    • Reviewing work done by the team members.    Environment: Python 2.7/3, Eggplant, Java Core , Shell Scripting, Selenium RC, Rest API, unites, C# , .NET, Oracle 11.2, Linux(Ubuntu), Django, Eclipse, Attachment Reflection X, NoSQL Tool Developer/Automation Tester General Electric (GE) - Jacksonville, FL January 2012 to September 2012 RailDOCS: It facilitates rail teams of GE Transportation with an easier online feature development process. It's a technology platform that allows them to build the features where a project sponsor with a proposal and conceptual plan that provides some level of operational improvement typically initiates Communications & Signals projects. All of these go through phases of Preliminary Engineering Authorization, Detailed Engineering, Construction and Authorization.    Roles and Responsibilities in the project:  • Responsible for development and enhancements of all the modules of raildocs automation framework and have them running quickly with testing of online features.  • Engineered stable, isolated environments per game team  • Created and executed test plans and scripts for all new functionality, regression, and stress testing conditions  • Created and executed automated software test plans, cases and scripts to uncover, identify and document software problems and their causes.  • Implement security features for the APIs.  • Created and executed test plans and scripts for all new functionality, regression, and stress testing conditions  • Published test results and progress metrics.  • Organize and facilitate reviews, inspections, and walkthroughs of test plans.  • Managed our servers in development, testing, certification and production.  • Used Linux profiler Valgrind for optimization of code.  • Implemented locking mechanisms using multi threading functionality.  • Delivered thorough QA testing reports that determined product quality and release readiness.  • Used python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users    Environment: Python 2.7, Java, Selenium, Manual Testing, C#, Multithreading, Linux, Shell Scripting, Java Script, JQuery, MySQL, GDB, Agile, Jira Django/ Python Developer Serco Learning - Derby November 2010 to January 2012 Global Online System (GOS): Serco Solutions is working in various domains in UK. The project is based on education domain & deals with various activities related to school & Universities. It was among one of the biggest project the iGATE had in near past and also the project has got very complex requirement with stringent deadline.  The task is to understand their requirements & develop a user friendly site keeping in mind that it will be used by Schools, Colleges & Universities. This project has also got Dream team award for the year 2010 and CEO Award for the year 2011.  Progresso is brand new learning MIS for (UK & Irelands) Schools modeled in the latest Microsoft technologies and is a Software-As-A-Service (SaaS) Solution.  Progresso is to empower UK school leaders, teachers and administrators, by allowing data to be easily collected, stored and shared thus providing quality information to guide their decision making. High level modules of this project are  -People (Learner and Staff), Attendance  -Scheduling and Progress  -Behavior management  -School Workforce Census  -Third Party Integration  -Examination & Assessment    Roles and Responsibilities in the project:  • Responsible for getting the teams up and running with game record features.  • Requirements and Analysis: Understanding the requirements of the client and act as a sole functional resource.  • Created and executed test plans and scripts for all new functionality, regression, and stress testing conditions  • Published test results and progress metrics.  • Interaction with client's development team.  • Created design document for third party integration.  • Unit Testing & Debugging.Created authentication modules, views, models using Django.  • Used the Python's modules numpy, matportlib etc. for generating complex graphical data, creation of histograms etc.  • Profiled python code for optimization and memory management.    Environment: Python, Selenium, Eggplant, Manual Testing, Django (MVC), Python 2.7, ASP.NET(MVC)Java Script, JQuery, JSON, Microsoft Azure cloud, XML, Sqlite, Agile, TFS, Selenium Python/Django Developer HtCampus.com February 2010 to July 2010 BAAIS Video: This project is related to development of user friendly website which should be able to address all the queries related to Schools, Colleges & Universities present across the world. Apart from all basic information it has some attractive tools like Salary Calculator, compare Colleges. It has some online registration feature too so that student can get directly registered to desired place. In very short span of period this HtCampus.com has gained lot of popularity among students, Parents, teachers and in everyone who is searching for such information.    Roles and Responsibilities in the project:    • Responsible for setting up networks through Design and Development.  • Responsible in understanding the business requirement and work accordingly.  • Development of user friendly web pages.  • Developing Business Logic according to MVC architecture in Django framework.  • Designed the algorithm and business logic for Salary Calculator tool and presenting into graphical web pages.  • Unit Testing & Debugging.  • Direct Interaction with client for understanding the business requirement.    Environment Django, python, Java Core, Linux, Windows, Shell Scripting, GDB, Tom Cad Apache, Microsoft Visio Education Masters in Technology BITS Pilani - Pilani, Rajasthan Bachelor of Technology in Computer Science Hi-Tech Institute of Engg. & Technology - Ghaziabad, Uttar Pradesh Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Operating Systems Unix, Linux (Ubuntu and Red Hat), QnX, Window CE ,Windows 2000, XP, Vista, 7,Mac OS  Web technologies Django , JavaScript, XML, HTML, .NET 4.0  Programming Languages/Scripting Language Java Core, Python , C#, C, E/SQL, Shell Scripting, XML, PowerShell, JavaScript  Database Oracle 11.2, MS SQL SERVER, SQLite, NoSQL  Internet Programming HTML, XML, CSS, AJAX, Web Services(SOAP/REST), REST API,flex  Software Tools Eclipse, Microsoft Visual Studio .Net 2012, MS Visio, Putty, Teraterm, Microsoft Test Manager, Team Foundation Server, JIRA  Version Control Tools SVN, ClearCase , Team Foundation Server, Code Collaborator. Git hub, Jenkins, Maven  Networking Protocols HTTP, TCP, UDP, SSH, TELNET  Automation Test Tools Selenium (Web Driver and Remote Control), Eggplant, Jmeter, TestNg, JUnit, Arduino Microcontroller, ANT, Cucumber, Gherkin