Junior Python Developer (Remote) Junior <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> (Remote) Software Developer Atlanta, GA • Versatile software developer with 2+ years of professional and 4+ years of academic experience in Python development, who is self-motivated and eager to continuously learn.    • Experience includes skills such as Python, XML, PostgreSQL, RML, ERP and CVS software, working with tools like PyCharm, Putty, Visual Studio, WinSCP, and using operating systems like Windows, Ubuntu and CentOS.    • Experience in communicating with all levels of an organization using technical and non-technical language. Capable of efficiently working alone or as a contributing member of a team. Excellent versatility at the moment of learning new skills or concepts, and rapidly adapting to different working environments. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Junior Python Developer (Remote) OpenSur - Montevideo, Departamento de Montevideo April 2014 to Present • Design, develop and customize Odoo modules with Python, XML, JavaScript, and PostgreSQL.  • Design and develop reports with Python, Qweb, and RML.  • Develop and maintain scrapers to obtain currency exchange rates.  • Research, test and integrate third party Python libraries and Odoo modules.  • Configure, install and maintain cloud servers of clients for the production and testing environments of Odoo in Ubuntu and CentOS servers.  • Consumption of Odoo’s API and third party SOAP APIs.   • Research and test new technologies and hardware to integrate to Odoo using Java and JavaScript.  • Lead the development team for three projects. Python Developer Infolincs, LLC - Shady Cove, OR April 2015 to March 2017 • Migrated a QuickBase application into a customized Odoo module.  • Designed, developed and tested an Odoo module with Python, XML, JavaScript, and PostgreSQL.  • Designed and developed reports with Python, Qweb, and RML.  • Installed and maintained the production environment in an Ubuntu cloud server.  • Reported directly to the CEO.  • Increased business's staff efficiency by a 50%. Software Developer B&B Professional Solutions - Montevideo, Departamento de Montevideo May 2015 to May 2016 • Analyzed, designed, developed and tested a customized Odoo module using Python, XML, and PostgreSQL.   • Reported directly to the CEOs. Orders Processing Manager and Customer Service Manager Swivid Technologies Inc - Boston, MA May 2013 to January 2014 • Supervised a team of two employees.  • Oversee the processing of orders from the website.  • Conducted the employee's training.  • In charge of customer service via email and of solving technical issues. .NET Intern TATA Consultancy Services S.A - Montevideo, Departamento de Montevideo October 2012 to January 2013 • Developed a real estate listing website using C#, ASP.NET, HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.   • Applied the MVC design pattern and applied Object Oriented Programming concepts.   • Designed and integrated a Microsoft SQL Server 2008 R2 database to the website.  • Member of a team of four interns, competing against other four teams of interns. Education B.S. in Computer Science Lindenwood University St. Charles - Saint Charles, MO May 2017 Skills ERP (2 years), Python (2 years), C# (1 year), Java (1 year), XML (2 years), PostgresSQL (2 years), RML (2 years), Odoo (2 years), OpenERP (2 years), .NET (1 year), Sql Server (Less than 1 year), Asp.Net (1 year), HTML (1 year), CSS (Less than 1 year), Javascript (1 year), Ubuntu (2 years) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/adrian-beloqui http://www.beloqui.com/ Awards Huntington University - Athletic Honor Roll 2014-12 Huntington University - Athletic Honor Roll 2015-05 Huntington University - Dean's List 2014-12 Huntington University - Dean's List 2015-05 Lindenwood University - Dean's List 2015-12 Lindenwood University - Dean's List 2016-05 Publications Module for Odoo 8 https://apps.openerp.com/apps/modules/8.0/account_check_printing/ 2016-09