Data Research Associate Data Research Associate Data Research Associate - John Wiley & Sons, Inc Hoboken, NJ Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Data Research Associate John Wiley & Sons, Inc - Hoboken, NJ November 2016 to Present • Maintained consistency of customer data migrated from different data sources in Oracle database.  • Researched, cleansed customer data and provided reports to data governance group.  • Collected data by Web Scraping for building database of data cleansing application.  • Decoded postal codes programmatically and filled in missing data of 22,000+ customer records with Python and reduced time by 2 weeks. Research Assistant Stevens Institute of Technology - Hoboken, NJ June 2016 to September 2016 • Assisted in building machine learning systems course for Big Data University focusing on data science projects deployments, system interfaces and the impact on downstream systems.  • Configured and tested Spark cluster environment of Hanlon Lab.  • Tested features (stability, scalability, etc.) of machine learning algorithms (SVM, Logistic Regression, Random Forest, Neural Networks, etc.) with Spark on cluster. Backend Python Developer Dalian University of Technology, Liaoning - CN September 2013 to June 2014 • Helped design and implement RESTful API using Python.  • Extended data models to support different data types in MySQL database.  • Maintained and implemented new features of Django applications. Education Master of Science in Business Intelligence & Analytics Stevens Institute of Technology - Hoboken, NJ May 2017 Bachelor's in Computer Science Dalian University of Technology September 2011 to July 2015 Skills PYTHON (4 years), SQL (4 years), Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (2 years), AWS (2 years), C++ (1 year), Flask (2 years), Django (2 years), R (2 years), SAS (2 years), Linux (4 years), Tableau (1 year), Java (1 year), C++ (1 year), C (1 year), HTML (1 year), Web Development (2 years), web scraping (3 years) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/renyu-zhang-565932105 https://github.com/mgmg1100 Additional Information SKILLS:    Programming Languages: Proficient in Python (4 years), R (2 years), SAS (2 years), Scala (1 year), SQL (4 years)  Basic Knowledge in Java, C/C++  Tools: Spark ( Python/Scala), Hadoop, AWS (EC2, S3), Linux, Excel (VBA)