Software Engineer/Data Engineer Software Engineer/Data Engineer Software Engineer/Data Engineer - CODING TEMPLE Chicago, IL Full-stack developer with hands-on experience in many facets of development including web  forms, interactive databases, encrypted data access, and data science. Demonstrated proficiency  in an array of different web technologies.With a strong understanding of data applied  knowledge in every aspect of Data Science. Using Numpy, Pandas, and SQL, I implemented  different Machine Learning algorithms using sci-kit learn, applied optimization techniques to  them and then tuned the hyper-parameters by following various performance metrics for  building better predictive models.  ? Experience as a software programmer using Python, Flask, PostgreSQL, ReactJS HTML  ? Experience in object-oriented programming(OOP) concepts using Python  ? Experience in frameworks like Flask, Angular, and Bootstrap UI  ? Expert knowledge of and experience in Object Oriented Design and Programming Algorithms  ? Experience with design, code, and debugging operations, reporting, data analysis, and web  applications using Python  ? Developed dynamic web pages to view the reports utilizing Django framework.  ? Expertise in transforming business requirements into building models, designing algorithms,  developing data mining and reporting solutions that scales across massive volume of unstructured  data and structured.  ? Proficient in Machine Learning techniques (Decision Trees, Linear/Logistic Regressors, Random  Forest, SVM, Bayesian, XG Boost, K-Nearest Neighbors) and Statistical Modeling in Forecasting/  Predictive Analytics, Segmentation methodologies, Regression based models, Hypothesis testing,  Factor analysis/ PCA, Ensembles.  ? Experience in designing visualizations using Tableau and PowerBI software and Storyline on web  and desktop platforms, publishing and presenting dashboards.  ? Hands on experience in implementing LDA, Naive Bayes and skilled in Decision Trees, Random  Forests, Linear and Logistic Regression, SVM, Clustering, neural networks and proficient knowledge  on Recommender Systems.  ? Highly skilled in using visualization tools like Tableau, Matplotlib for creating dashboards.  ? Extensive working experience with Python including Scikit-learn, Sci-py, Pandas and Numpy  developing machine learning models, manipulating and handling data. Work Experience Software Engineer/Data Engineer CODING TEMPLE - Chicago, IL January 2018 to Present Developed web applications using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AngularJS, Python, Django, and SQL..  ? Developed dynamic front and and backend applications using Python, Flask frameworks.  ? Data Analysis, Data Wrangling and development of algorithms in R and Python for data  mining and analysis  ? Python NumPy, SciPy, Pandas packages to perform dataset manipulation  ? Utilized CSS to make the application responsive/ designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS, and JavaScript.  ? Designed various time series forecasting models to predict the various major metrics  Used  ? Responsible for Creating/maintaining complex sql queries, custom queries, views, and stored procedures.  ? Understanding, ingesting and querying data using SQL and ensure smooth flow end to end  ? Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects  ? Developed User Interface using front-end technologies like HTML, CSS, JavaScript  Environment: Python, Flask, JavaScript, Pandas, SQL, MySQL, MongoDB Jr. Python Developer/Jr. Data Scientist CAMSOFT INC - Bridgewater, NJ January 2016 to December 2018 Work in a fast-paced environment while ensuring product quality  ? Created Business Logic using Python to create Planning and Tracking functions  ? Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data  manipulation and retrieval  ? Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, to build an interactive web-based solution  ? Used SQL database in MySQL, PostgreSQL, SQLite and MongoDB.  ? Experience using Web Services and API's in Python  Environment: Python, Flask, JavaScript, Pandas, SQL, MySQL Education Wayne State University- Irvin D Reid Honors College - Detroit, MI 2011 to 2015 Skills JAVASCRIPT (3 years), MYSQL (3 years), PYTHON (3 years), SQL (2 years), DATABASE (3 years) Links http://vamsiatluru.com Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Programming Languages Python, Java, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, SQL, R  Web Technologies/Development Numpy, Pandas, Flask, jQuery, AJAX, JSON,  Frameworks BootstrapUI  Database SQL, MySQL, SQLite, Mangodb  Tools/Methodologies GitHub, Tableau, Anaconda, Jupyter Notebook, Atom,  Agile Software Development, Scrum, Data Modeler,  Tableau  Cloud Technology  Software Microsoft Office (Word, Excel, PowerPoint)