Web Developer Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Developer Laredo, TX Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Web Developer Texas A&M International University - Laredo, TX January 2017 to November 2017 Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework  Developed the fornt end of the application by using HTML, CSS AJAX, JSON AND JQUERY and restful API's using Django.    Migrated Django databse from SQLite3 to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity. Also managed code version using GitHub.    Academic Analysis  Data Analysis on trade between US and MEXICO: Analyze data from several USA-Mexico border cities and derive conclusions about how certain city characteristics (e.g., per capita income, population, the number of international bridges, etc.) affect trade.  (Advisor: Ned Kock)  Analysis on apartment Resident survey data and found the order of importance of potential predictors and net promoters that affects the satisfaction of residents.  Development of Mobile application 'OUIKFIXX'- Residence Maintenance application which makes it easy for the residents to submit their complaint and make it more convenient on their side.  Database management project- Development of restaurant management system using VB.net.  Development and Publishing technical paper on "Automated Mobility on Visually Impaired People" which was design to help the Visually Impaired People to walk around. Python Developer Social Flixx - Pune, Maharashtra August 2015 to August 2016 Pune, Maharashtra  Developed web-based LAMD stack applications using Python and Django for large dataset analysis.  Created and optimized work flow automation tools to facilitate data interpretation and presentation via statistical modeling  techniques.  Deployed Placed data into JSON files using Python to test Django websites.  Managed Python scripts to update the content in database and manipulate files.  Deployed PyQt to implement GUI for the user to create, modify and view reports based on client data.  Design, develop, and deploy engaging web applications using Python. Education Master of Science in Management Information System Texas A&M International University - Laredo, TX 2017 Skills DJANGO (1 year), PYTHON (1 year), CSS (Less than 1 year), HTML (Less than 1 year), jQuery (Less than 1 year) Additional Information Skills  Front-End Software Software Tools  C++, JavaScript, Bootstrap, Jquery, HTML, CSS. MULTISIM, PROTEUS ISIS, ARES PCB DESIGN, PSPICE,  and MATLAB.  Back-end Software Microsoft Tools    Python 2.0/3.0, Microsoft SQL, Django, PostgreSQL, Shell scripting Microsoft Access, Microsoft Excel, Microsoft Azure, Microsoft  Power Point, Microsoft Word