Senior Developer Senior <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Developer - Imagine Learning Springville, UT Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Developer Imagine Learning - Provo, UT 2016 to Present • Architected rewrite of existing client application in 8 months.  • Improved product load times from 2 minutes to 20 seconds.  • Action-Command FSM rather than one off custom code per module.  • Created and maintained self-directing automation code.  • Created and maintained 23 activites in less than a year.  • Mentored team of 10 Mid-Level Python Engineer Verisys - South Jordan, UT 2015 to 2016 • Increased ETL system's efficiency by 13,000% (from 700/month to 700/day)  • Caught and handled over 900 previously unknown ETL errors.  • Created PoC to search previously unsearched records in two weeks.  • Built Elastic Cluster and Django system to search, score, and return high probability providers from a pool 70 million large.  • Upgraded legacy systems from Django 1.4.5 to 1.8+  • Redesigned and built core legacy systems to fit this decade.  • Worked with team to identify and remedy unknown code, slow queries, and future profit-gain PoCs. Technical lead Falling Dust - Provo, UT 2013 to 2015 • Lead team of developers and artists to fulfill technical needs of the project.  • Designed and coded two video games (mobile and web based).  • Assigned to aid in all areas of the project, from design plans to academic write-up.  • Took interactive technology segments of the project form inception, through planning, programming, and QA, all the way to launch. Education B.S. degree in Information Technology Brigham Young University - Provo, UT 2008 to 2015 Skills C#, C++, DJANGO, PHP, PYTHON Additional Information Skills and Interests  • Programming Languages: C++, C, C#, Ruby, Python, PHP, Lua  • ElasticSearch, Django, Unity3D, Linux, Automation, Good Unit Tests  • Language: Spanish, conversational writing and oral  • Teaching and learning through engagement  • Full time positions only. Mention 'Tool-smith' when recruiting.