Software Consultant Software Consultant Software Consultant - Capgemini America Inc Chicago, IL • Seasoned Computer Network Engineer for 3 years in Web Application Development and Back-end services using  PYTHON and DJANGO REST technologies, networks, servers, firewalls & IT Infrastructure Management Services.  • Have work experience in Linux platform.  • Have work experience in frameworks and technologies like Django, Django Rest, Django-CMS, OAuth 2.0, etc.,  • Having experience in databases like MySQL, PGSQL, SQLITE.  • Have experience in environments in Amazon AWS, NGINX.  • Having experience in UI designing using HTML, XHTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX.  • Have experience in shell scripting in Linux platform.  • Have experience in Code Management / Version control system like, Git hub, Bit Bucket etc.,  • Having exposure to JSON and REST Web service implementation and integration.  • Having Experience in Server scripting.  • Having Experience in Node Js for rest API Calls.  • Proven analytical ability, co-ordination skills and team management skills.  • Reliable, efficient team player with good communication skills and able to adapt quickly to new technologies.  • Love to debug / trouble shoot and bug fixing any issues in Python, CSS and JavaScript.  • To resolve the issue by Trouble Shooting by Tech Support side. Work Experience Software Consultant Capgemini America Inc August 2016 to Present Open Edx project: A Web based Application, which is totally for the on-line education and an open source project.  Responsibilities:  • Analysis the open source code.  • Deployed the project in AWS with proper configuration.  • Have created OAuth2 logins.  • Rest API creation for the Application as separate services for data analytics.  • Strong back-end section controlling all the functionalities has also been developed.  • Using Python 2.7, MySQL and MongoDB the code has been developed.  • Managed code using Git Hub.  • Integration of code.  Environment/Tools: NGINX, Python 2.7, Django 1.9, MySQL, MongoDB, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, J Query, CSS, Linux platform.    1  Lab monitoring project: A Rest Application, which is to monitor the Lab and Bay with assigned device. And also a dashboard for the Data analytics.  Responsibilities:  • Rest API for the Lab Monitoring to collect the Lab details.  • Deployed in AWS with NGINX.  • Model designing for the application.  • Strong back-end section controlling all the functionalities has also been developed.  • Using Python 2.7, PgSQL the code has been developed.  • Managed code using Git Hub.  • Integration of code.  Environment/Tools: NGINX, Python 2.7, Django 1.9, PgSQL, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Angular JS, CSS, Linux platform. Python-Django Web Developer DHL - Chennai, Tamil Nadu May 2014 to July 2015 iTechjobs: Resume & job portal: A job portal site that create easy interaction between candidates and recruiter. This portal had  a wide range of database action. This portal had many professional feature that attracts corporate people. User friendly way of screening resumes to select candidates using keywords.  Responsibilities:  • Requirement gathering and analysis.  • Involved in Design Analysis  • Database design and implementation.  • Template and User Interface design and implementation.  • Developed user interface functionalities for super admin interface, Admin/ secretariat interfaces and Advisor  • Strong back-end section controlling all the functionalities has also been developed  • Using Python 2.7, PGSQL the code has been developed.  • Managed code using Git-hub  • Performing the unit test for each module.  • Integration of code  Environment/Tools: AWS, Python 2.7, Django 1.7, PostgreSQL, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap CSS  SECURE ONLINE VOTING (WEB BASED): Secure On-line Voting application is a web based interactive system developed for Department of Information Technology - India. Its aims to tackle some real world problems like security loop holes, threats and  flaws in the existing Internet infrastructure. It also aims at maintaining security, accuracy, privacy and reliability.  Responsibilities:  • Requirement gathering and analysis.  • Analysis and System Design.  • Database design and implementation.  • Template and User Interface design and implementation.  • Front end features that includes user profiles, secured voting system features  • Strong back-end section controlling all the functionalities has been developed.  • Using Python 2.7, PGSQL the code has been developed.  • Performing the unit test for each module.  • Integration of code modules  Environment/Tools: Python 2.7, Ubuntu, Django 1.6, PostgreSQL, HTML, CSS, JQuery Back-end Support Engineer Fidelity Information Solutions - Chennai, Tamil Nadu October 2012 to March 2014 Vear project (Vear mobile Application): A Mobile application that support both android and iPhone, the application totally  based on Virtual and Augment reality, in this we have to maintain the user details and models of AR and VR.  Responsibilities:  • Database design and implementation.  • Deployed the open source project for image mapping.  • Have created shell scripting in Linux platform  • Rest API creation for the Application.  • Strong back-end section controlling all the functionalities has also been developed  • Using Python 2.7, PGSQL the code has been developed.  • Managed code using GitHub  • Performing the unit test for each module.  Environment/Tools: NGINX, Python 2.7, Django 1.9, PostgreSQL, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap CSS, Linux platform    2  Creator Dashboard (Web Application): A user interface web application for user or client can come and upload their 3D images or Videos. They can place the project and can be view through in mobile application. Maintain the user details and the projects  Responsibilities:  • Database design and implementation.  • Deployed the open source project for image mapping  • Coded some server scripting  • Separate Server for Node Js to make image process  • Using Node Js to create some API for asynchronous functions to process Images  • Rest API creation for the Application.  • Strong back-end section controlling all the functionalities has also been developed  • Using Python 2.7, PGSQL the code has been developed.  • Managed code using Git-hub  • Performing the unit test for each module.  • Integration of code  • To predict the output of system application using machine learning  Environment/Tools: NGINX, Python 2.7, Django 1.9, Node JS, PostgreSQL, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap CSS, Linux platform    Project  • Title: Design a Network Infrastructure for a small bank  Description: Deploying the infrastructure (LANs, firewalls, routers, switches, IDS and sensors, servers (DNS,  applications, databases, etc.) in MS VISIO, addressing scheme and any other security related systems,  including specifics about the configurations.  • Title: Network Topology  Description: Design a topology in wire shark which works with ports, serials, fast Ethernet and gigabit  Ethernet port. To plan IP addresses for each device, each port and IP pools for the DHCP (Dynamic Host  Configuration Protocol) servers.  • Title: Design a Data Centre  Description: Design a data center in virtual machine with SQL, DNS and WEB servers all controlled by smooth wall (firewall) and DMZ (De-militarized Zone).  • Title: Secure Multimodal Biometric Authentication System.  Description: It is an Authentication system which combines Multimodal Biometric & Cryptographic  mechanisms to authenticate an employee in an organization. Front End: JAVA Back End: MY SQL Education Master of Science in Information, Networking and Computer security New York Institute of Technology August 2015 to December 2016 Bachelor of Technology in Information Technology Anna University September 2008 to May 2012 Skills CSS (4 years), Django (4 years), Git (4 years), HTML (4 years), JavaScript (4 years) Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/divya-alamelu-sankaranarayanan-4717b643 Additional Information Technical Skills  Platforms Linux(Ubuntu), Windows(XP)  Languages Python, Node JS  Databases MySQL, PostgreSQL, MongoDB, SQLite.  Frameworks Django, Django Rest  Database Tools PgMyAdmin  Version Control Systems GIT  Web Technologies HTML, CSS, JavaScript, XML, JSON, REST.  Cloud Environment AWS, NGINX