Postdoctoral Associate Postdoctoral Associate Postdoctoral Associate - Florida International University Miami, FL Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Postdoctoral Associate Florida International University January 2015 to Present Working with Dr. Geoffrey Smith, the main goal of this postdoc is to study the effect of correlations between secrets in the context of quantitative information flow, using the framework provided by the general theory of g-leakage. Other directions of interest include computational variants of leakage and  relations with cryptographic techniques. Postdoctoral Fellow École Polytechnique & MSR-Inria (France) October 2014 to December 2014 Short post-doctoral position used to polish the final version of my PhD thesis and prepare journal  versions of the publications produced during the PhD. PhD student Inria (France) October 2011 to September 2014 Worked under the supervision of Dr. Catuscia Palamidessi and Dr. Konstantinos Chatzikokolakis. My  research was focused on a generalization of the notion of differential privacy, and the study of its  applications in different domains, with particular interest in the case of location privacy. During this  time, three papers on the topic were published in prestigious privacy and security conferences. Python and Plone Developer Menttes - Córdoba, Córdoba June 2010 to August 2011 Designed and implemented front end (HTML/JavaScript) and back end ( Python) of several web  systems and intranets using the Plone Content Management System. Education PhD in Computer Science École Polytechnique - Palaiseau (91) 2011 to 2014 Master's in Computer Science Universidad Nacional de Córdoba - Córdoba, Córdoba 2008 to 2011 Bachelor's in Computer Science Universidad Nacional de Córdoba - Córdoba, Córdoba 2005 to 2008 Skills Algorithms, Data Structures, Research, Privacy, Location Privacy, C++, Python, Programming Competitions Links http://nbordenabe.me Additional Information Skills  Programming Languages:  • Substantial experience with C and C++.  • Experience with Python, HTML and JavaScript.  • Some experience with Java (for college projects), and C# (with Unity).  Platforms and Tools:  • Experience with the Django Web framework and the Plone Content Management System.  • Some experience with the Unity game development ecosystem.  • Experience developing in Mac OS X and GNU/Linux.