Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Computer Science Graduate Student | Seeking Data Science Full time Roles - May 2019 Bloomington, IN Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Python Developer Indiana University Bloomington - Bloomington, IN September 2018 to Present Developing a learning analytics model to classify the student’s learning behavior based on their activity on IU’s online education environment (Canvas).  • Using machine learning techniques to analyze 11,926 server logs to extract 19 features and perform K-means clustering on the data to examine the relationship between the instructor ratings of engagement and student activity.  • Researching how these correlations will further help in improving online teaching and learning with suggestions for instructors, instructional designers and ways to improve student performance on various courses. Research Assistant Indiana University Computer Vision Laboratory - Bloomington, IN May 2018 to Present • Created a web interface for an image recognition project using Flask to test people on the dog - owner face matching task.  • Facilitated the project by creating a web survey which helped the team to improve deep network. Data Analyst Indiana University Computer Vision Laboratory - Bloomington, IN May 2018 to Present • Improve data governance and automated self-service reporting by creating robust data dictionary.  • Provide detailed information of the data to the users by consolidating and reporting the data lineage of the relational datasets.  • Develop technical definitions for attributes in cloud-based, higher education-focused data governance tool (Data Cookbook)  using ETL tool - Informatica and Oracle SQL Developer. Software Engineer Hexaware Technologies, Limited - Chennai, Tamil Nadu July 2015 to July 2017 • Utilized business data efficiently to build a centralized Data Warehouse for Deutsche Bank Project.  • Designed ETL components for the Real Estate Data which involved implementing the data flow logic using SQL queries.  • Monitored the source data by analyzing the existing logging mechanism and performed data quality checks which decreased  the load on the database and increased the performance of the project.  • Implemented data validation techniques to ensure Data Accuracy and reduced data testing and validation time and resources.  • Contributed to the team by helping to make better data-driven decisions by evaluating all the phases of SDLC. Education Master of Science in Computer Science Indiana University - Bloomington, IN August 2017 to May 2019 Bachelor of Engineering in Computer Science Technocrat Institute of Technology, RGPV University - Bhopal, Madhya Pradesh August 2011 to May 2015 Skills Python (2 years), SQL (3 years), R (Less than 1 year) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/hmahtta/