JR. DATA ANALYST JR. DATA ANALYST JR. DATA ANALYST - TELLIGEN TECH Fairfax, VA Data Scientist with 3 years of work experience as a programmer, developer and analyst. I  am currently working as Jr. Data Analyst and have been constantly improving my skills in  Machine Learning and Statistic concepts. I have accomplished my Master's in Computer  Science with Data Management, I did a project with WEKA tool about clustering,  classification using algorithms such as SimpleKMeans, NaiveBayes etc. Results of this  project made me passionately driven towards data science. Then I started Machine  Learning courses gained knowledge did capstone projects and solving some tasks in GitHub  and further got a job as a data analyst obtained hands-on skills working on huge datasets  and deploying applications on AWS instances and now looking for a data scientist job.  Authorized to work in United States with any employer. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience JR. DATA ANALYST TELLIGEN TECH April 2018 to Present Roles and Responsibilities:  • Developed a CRUD (Create, Read, Update, Delete) customer management web application  using Flask. Designed the components structure of application by deep diving into MVC  architectural pattern.  • Deployed Microsoft SQL Server BI Platform to assemble, manage and report data across multiple sources.  • Used SSIS to extract data from different external data source including txt, excel, Json,  xml, csv.  • Used SSAS to clean, transform, join, merge the data to meet the business requirement.  Processed SSAS cubes to load the data into a target data warehouse and create an index for the data which can be accessed by SSRS.  • Used SSRS to report data to customers. Used SQL query in Tableau to design internal  dashboards. Analyzed the metrics to explore business insights for business department.  Developed an email alert system to monitor essential business metrics.  • Built dashboards for demand planning and e-commerce teams utilizing Power BI.  • Built Shell scripts and used crontab to automate the daily execution of ETL process.  Designed custom log system to capture data issues due to sever crash or other bugs. Made the documentations for team members handling relative tasks. SQL DEVELOPER TELLIGEN TECH February 2017 to December 2017 Roles and Responsibilities:  • Involved in Creation of Tables, Indexes, Stored Procedures and User defined Functions  which were used to implement business rules.  • Performed Performance tuning on SQL queries, triggers and stored procedures.  • Generated SQL Queries using necessary Join conditions and used Indexes efficiently for good performance of queries.  • Performed the Creation, manipulation and supporting the SQL Server databases.  • Created stored procedures and triggers which were used to implement business rules. JR. PYTHON PROGRAMMER BIOCLINICA September 2014 to December 2015 Roles and Responsibilities:  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web  Framework.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS.  • Wrote python raw SQL queries to Django database agnostic for MySQL and Oracle  database.  • Created Django class based REST API's for the application.  • Wrote ajax calls to get, post, delete REST API calls for upload and delete files.  • Used R analytics to perform data analysis and data representation via bar charts, graph  charts.  • Wrote AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP-serializable  JSON strings.  • Developed TCP/IP, UDP networking scripts for internal file and data transfer.  • Used Python in-built libraries like, urllib, urllib2, OS, multithreading and many advanced  libraries to build automation libraries.  • Implemented automation script using crontab in python to run the web crawler.  • Developed Python scripts to store read and write data to CSV files.  • Developed scripts to read and dump data to MySQL database.  • Worked in Agile and scrum environment which includes daily standup and sprint  planning.  • Created unit test and automation framework using nose test and selenium.  • Involved in Peer review and code review process. Education MASTER'S in Computer Science VIRGINIA INTERNATIONAL UNIVERSITY BACHELOR'S in Computer Science JNTU UNIVERSITY Skills DATA MANIPULATION, DATABASES, SQL, HTML, PYTHON, project management, access, microsoft word, r Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/karthikpothula Additional Information Technical Skills  Python, Machine Learning, SQL, C    Other Tools/Utilities:    Microsoft Office, Drupal, Databases, HTML, Weka, Mathematics, Statistics, Quantitative  Analysis, Machine Learning, R Programming, Data Transforming, Data Visualization, Data  Cleaning, Data Munging, Data Manipulation, Debugging, Modelling, Probability.