Python Teaching Assistant <span class="hl">Python</span> Teaching Assistant Python Teaching Assistant - Responsify Work Experience Python Teaching Assistant Responsify - Brooklyn, NY August 2018 to Present · Teach and Facilitate Lab sections two days a week.  · Lead my own homework review session every Thursday for two hours, helping over thirty students per session.  · Grade and evaluate the code of over 300 students on correctness and good coding practices.  · Generate practice questions for students to use in addition to those provided by the professors.  · Proctor and participate in the grading of exams. Co-president, Code Talks - New York, NY May 2018 to Present Organize and schedule presentations for students where they can learn more about the field of computer science from professors, industry experts, and other students Web Developer Responsify - Brooklyn, NY December 2017 to Present • Develop a content management service (CMS) to organize writers, assign tasks, facilitate content, and create email templates.  • Created an alpha build of the platform on the Google Script platform that has full functionality.  • Created a web crawler that takes one-sixth of the time it would normally take to gather contact information.  • Programmed a script to systematically personalize email templates for different clients.  • Mapped out and developed the database for Responsify's content platform.  • Assist in the acquisition of new clients.  • Present at weekly scrum meetings to streamline and optimize development. Head Counselor American Immersion - Baltimore, MD June 2016 to August 2017 • Led a camp that teaches international students from Brazil and China how to speak English.  • Led a team of ten counselors for two years through a six week program.  • Communicated with the executive board of summer camps to arrange funding for the program.  • Counseled students on living in America and assimilating into the traditional American camp environment. Education Bachelors of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science New York University - Brooklyn, NY May 2019 Skills Python (4 years), Java (3 years), JavaScript (1 year), Object Oriented Programming (OOP) (4 years), C++ (2 years), Pandas (2 years), Relational Databases (2 years), REST APIs (1 year), Web Development (1 year), HTML/CSS (2 years), SQL (2 years), MongoDB (1 year), Machine Learning (1 year), Teacher Assistant (1 year), NumPy (2 years)