Webmaster Webmaster Python/Django Developer - Zulip San Francisco, CA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Webmaster San Mateo Union High School District - San Mateo, CA 2015 to Present Took over management of the district broken internal website built on Drupal content  management system. Within a month patched the site and got it back into production.  ? Utilizing Unix/Linux skillset, created the first testing environment for the web server, so that  the production site will have better uptime and performance.  ? Collaborated with staff, admin, and HR personnel throughout the district to write custom PHP,  Bash and Javascript scripts. Customize forms and web views to fit the unique needs of endusers and specific departments.  ? UI/UX designer for frontend of the district's Board Agenda website. Using pure HTML, CSS and Javascript created a simple design that allows parents, board members and other users with  little-to-no web experience easily navigate and obtain board agenda information  ? Built and design the Learning Management System using Moodle framework. The LMS is  utilized heavily for district professional development training. I created the UI/UX design for the first course set up on the system, which is currently serves as a template guide for other  instructors.  ? Film and edit district webinars and special events videos    1  Software Engineer  Phone: 559-213-4212 | Email: ajrmayberry@gmail.com  Linkedin: https://www.linkedin.com/in/akyyamayberry/  Github: https://github.com/hollywoodno IT Operations Technology Specialist II San Mateo Union High School District - San Mateo, CA 2014 to Present Research, purchase, set up and installation and maintenance of the district's computer  hardware, software and WAN; configure routers and hubs to address networked computers;  adjustments to LAN system to improve computing performance for endusers; and maintain  security software, patches, updates etc.  ? Work heavily with Active Directory User Accounts, Microsoft Office, deployment software and tools on both Windows and Mac platforms.  ? Write bash scripts to automate frequent and repetitive installation and deployment tasks.  ? Methodologically troubleshoot and document end-user computer, printer, IP phones and wireless/wired network issues throughout the district for HP, Dell, Mac, Chromebook, CISCO,  and Smart products. The efforts keeps endusers systems up and running smoothly, so that  they can focus on their tasks with minimum technological interruptions.  ? Exercise communication skills, empathy and patience to provide in-person and remote  helpdesk support and training for users with various levels of technical knowledge and comfortness. Python Developer Backend Django - San Francisco, CA 2014 to 2015 Contributed to Zulips custom implementation of Python and JS markdown, which allows  users to effortlessly type neatly formated text.  ? Write an enhancement features such as using Geo location, HTTP request and response  parsing, and Maxmind location dataset API, that alerts users when there are new logins to their account.  ? Hardcode SQL to upgrade Zulip's analytics system to create more subsets of the previous  analytic stats.  ? Performed various bug fixes on frontend using Javascript and backend contributing to Zulip's  near 100% test coverage. Education Software Engineering Fellowship Hackbright Academy March 2016 Associate Arts in Computer Networking and Information Technology City College of San Francisco 2012 to 2014 certification San Francisco State University 2005 to 2010 Skills Javascript (3 years), Linux (3 years), Mac (3 years), Unix (3 years), Unix/Linux (3 years) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/akyyamayberry https://github.com/hollywoodno Additional Information TECHNOLOGIES  Languages | Python, Swift, Bash, JavaScript (AJAX, JSON), HTML5, CSS3, SQL  Frameworks/Libraries | Django, Drupal, Flask, SQLAlchemy, jQuery, Bootstrap, Angular,  Database/Industry Tools | PostgreSQL, MySQL, AWS, PGAdmin3, Git, GitHub, Command Line,  Unix/Linux  Tools/Software | Microsoft Windows XP, 7, 8, Server, Office; Mac OSX, iOS and Server; Ghost,  Clonezilla, Fog, and MDT; ticketing systems; Wireshark; Meraki, Adobe Creative Suite; Final Cut Studio