Junior Python/Django Developer Junior <span class="hl">Python</span>/Django <span class="hl">Developer</span> Junior Python/Django Developer Austin, TX Python programming for many different industries. Extremely good problem solving skills. Great at working in high-pressure situations. Extensive knowledge of basic and higher mathematics. Available to put in extra hours or travel when needed. Experience with many versions of Python as well as their differences and features. Open to learning and using new systems involved in Python Programming. Automated JIRA processes using Python and bash scripts. Involved in database-driven web application development using a variety of frameworks such as Django on Python. Able to work with various operating systems like Mac OS, Windows, Linux, and Unix. Managed MySQL and SQLite databases.    QA Analyst who enjoys working in the fast-paced environment with daily challenges, improve skills, and learn something new.  Dynamic problem solver with passion for quality and practical experience in manual black box and white-box, static and dynamic testing. Adept at using both manual and automated testing tools to troubleshoot systems, integration, user acceptance, positive and negative, functionality, object, and regression. Develop use cases, user interface specifications, and user requirement specification documents. Liaise with developers, business analysts, and user representatives in application design and document reviews.  Superior analytical, troubleshooting, communication and presentation skill. Work Experience Junior Python/Django Developer iTransition - Minsk, BY March 2015 to May 2016 • Utilized Python, Django, jQuery etc. to design server applications and client interfaces.  • Evaluated development standards and procedures of engineering processes.  • Managed continuous maintenance and troubleshooting of Python Django projects.  • Handled development and management of front end user interfaces with help of HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Created and deployed applications on diverse range of platforms including Linux and Solaris.  • Collaborated with other developers to handle complicated issues related with deployment of Django based applications.  • Designed and configured database and back end applications and programs. Junior QA Analyst/Engineer iTransition - Minsk, BY February 2013 to March 2015 • In-class experience/real-world experience with programming/development with Python, Java  • Working on multiple projects at any given time  • Participates in special projects and performs other duties as requested  • Create test models for release testing (plans, data and scripts) including the identification, collection and/or creation of test data  • Manages test tasks and conducts tests using testing tools  • Develops test set-ups and maintains automation test platforms  • Executes test scripts manually and automatically, analyzes results, and writes test reports Education Master of Science in Computer Science Belarussian State University of Informatics and Radioelectronics - Minsk, BY September 2010 to June 2015 Skills CSS (1 year), database (1 year), Python (3 years), testing (2 years), testing tools (2 years) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/pavel-dzmitrenka-85b00115b http://Gitbub.com https://github.com/JustNike/blog_project Additional Information TECHNICAL SUMMARY    Programming languages: Python, HTML, CSS, JavaScript; Frameworks: Bootstrap, Django, JQuery; Database design and administration: MySQL, SQLite. Testing Tools: DevTools, Selenium, Jira, Appium.