Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - OpexEngine Waltham, MA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer OpexEngine May 2017 to Present Rebuilt and improved the company's benchmark creation scripts using python/pandas, which is the core code for the company's primary product  ? Created validation scripts to improve quality of customer data  ? Connected Python scripts to MySQL database hosted on AWS  ? Debugged existing PHP webapp Contract EDI Analyst Maxwell Health September 2016 to Present Implemented and tested 100s of EDI feeds to various carriers, transmitting health  insurance data in an electronic format. Exceeded JIRA ticket completion goals by 2x.  ? Self-directed script-based improvement of process with limited oversight  ? Trained others to become effective EDI analysts  ? Designed, developed, and deployed using Python and pandas library:  ? Validation software using Python ElementTree XML library to parse XML  structures  ? Software to review and summarize open enrollments to automate process  ? Management scripts to verify that all XMLs that should be generating are by comparing XMLs with JIRA Online Researcher Lustig, Glaser and Wilson P.C January 2016 to August 2016 Designed and developed keyboard macros using VBScript which integrated Internet  Explorer with IBM's PComm software, as well as Excel and a RMV database software to automate address searches Analytical Chemist Independent Projects July 2010 to March 2011 Designed and developed a 3D space simulation using JavaScript with WebGL  ? Used self-designed graphics engine based off of Three.js and self-designed  physics engine  ? Displayed hundreds of thousands of 3D objects simultaneously without lowered  frame rate  ? Designed and developed JavaFX project which tracks inventory for an demolitions  company, with a graphical GUI that connects to Amazon AWS RDS using Java/JDBC  Dow Chemical  Analytical Chemist, July 2010 - Mar 2011  ? Designed and developed a software simulation of diffusion in various geometries which included chemical reactions to model copper ion deposition in via (using Java) Education BS in Mathematics University of Massachusetts Amherst - Amherst, MA Skills PYTHON (2 years), MYSQL (Less than 1 year), JAVA (Less than 1 year), JAVASCRIPT (Less than 1 year), CSS (Less than 1 year) Additional Information KEY SKILLS  ? Java, JavaScript, Python, MySQL, HTML, CSS, Matlab  ? JavaFX, Three.js, WebGL, Pandas, PyMySQL  ? Mathematics, mathematical analysis