Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer Tampa, FL I'm a seasoned IT professional with nearly 4 years of overall experience. My experience includes software development using python, database administration with Oracle, using AWS to support applications and GIS development and analysis with ArcGIS. I have experience using Python to automate tasks and to write scrips for AWS Lamda. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Cognizant Technology Solutions - Tampa, FL November 2017 to Present       Participate with business team, developers, and QA team to understand the business needs for FIM, and to go over the requirements to see how feasible and practical the needs are from a software development perspective. Conduct testing of FIM to ensure that the new functionalities are working properly, and perform regression testing to guarantee that all aspects of the application are functioning. Also responsible for putting together a team to perform sanity checks on the application for ensure quality. Train new members of the team on how FIM works through the UI and teach them how to do sanity checks in UI and by verifying in the backend. Prepare platform-monitoring reports for management to show how the overall health of all of the servers is and if anything is down or needs attention. As a member of the GIS team, I assist with any issues that arise with GDBs or any ArcGIS services, such as a geoprocessing service that is down or environments that are performing poorly. GIS is a huge part of FIM, other responsibilities include: maintaining geospatial data and designing database structures in an SDE environment, receiving geodatabase (GDB) data from vendors so I can create a GDB to load it into the application, and worked on GIS data migration project. Developed spatial data overlay and created topologies for comparison test to check for accuracy in lines and polygons. Corrected errors with ArcPy scripts and geoprocessing tools. Support Analyst Intern Esri, Inc. Headquarters - Redlands, CA May 2015 to August 2015 Routinely work with analysts and developers to troubleshoot problems with software  • Recommend solutions to analysts and developers to solve client's problem  • Create new scripting tools using Python to improve workflows  • Test software for bugs and create detailed documentation for Development team to fix bugs Peer Consultant University of Illinois Writers Workshop - Urbana, IL April 2013 to May 2015 Tutored undergraduate and graduate students on a variety of writing  • Focused on producing better writers not papers  • Taught students proper methods for successful writing UIUC - Urbana, IL September 2014 to November 2014 Information Technology Intern ILLINOIS SECRETARY OF STATE - Springfield, IL May 2011 to July 2011 Made data retrieval more efficient by organizing large amounts of data in database  • Frequently handled sensitive data and paperwork  • Collaborated with other departments to complete assignments    TECHNICAL SKILLS  • Mastery of Microsoft Office programs  • Proficient with ArcGIS Desktop, Server, Portal, Adobe Illustrator and Avenza MAPublisher  • Know fundamentals of Python programming, SQL, HTML/CSS, JavaScript  • Some experience with PostgreSQL and ArcGIS JavaScript API Education Bachelor of Science in Geographic Information Science UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS - Urbana-Champaign, IL May 2015