Network Technical Engineer Network Technical Engineer Network Technical Engineer - Delphi Automotive PLC Indianapolis, IN Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Technical Engineer Delphi Automotive PLC - Kokomo, IN February 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  • Coordinate with team and sort out the network related issues using RCA (Root cause Analysis).  • Involved in implementation of (LAN) VLANs, VTP, Spanning Tree (STP), Trunking and Ether channel.  • Performed troubleshooting and Implementation of traffic filters on Cisco routes using Standard and Extended access-list.  • Involved in maintaining, operating and delivering applications and services using Cisco Prime infrastructure 2.0.  • Deployed Nexus 7K, 5K and 4500/3750 switches, ASA firewall and IPS as well as Cisco 2800/3800/3900/ASR routers,  • Configured Static routes and Access-lists in ASA firewall and staged/pushed rules in checkpoint, Fortigate firewalls.  • Configured IPSec tunnels between Pearson and IBM, which includes adding routes, groups and advertising them to another end of the tunnel.  • Involved in network design tools like Vector Prevision and Mentor Volcano.  • Maintained, modified and expanded primarily Cisco based networking environment consisting of multiple routers, switches, PIX firewalls, and Cisco VPN in local and remote data centers.  • Involved in troubleshooting and resolving hardware and software problems associated with LAN/WAN network and servers.  • Provided input and support for troubleshooting of IP technologies, including but not limited to Network connectivity, IP addressing (CIDR and VLSM), Routing Protocols (BGP and OSPF).  • Managing Cisco Layer 2, Layer 3 switches & Routers on the network.  • Designed and implemented switch network with Cisco Layer 3 switches (3750, 4500, 6500) in multi VLANs environment and inter-VLAN routing, HSRP, ISL trunk, Ether channel.  • Worked on F5 LTM for the corporate applications and their availability and Autosar concepts and its implementation.  • Performed health checks on F5 load balancers, develop irules and monitoring the status of the application servers.  • Designed, validated and implemented LAN, WLAN & WAN solution to suite client's needs.  • Performed maintenance, troubleshooting and setup of large IP Ethernet networks.  • Performed a variety of highly complex analytical duties in network design and IP services for network optimization and producing fundamental and detailed designs for implementation.  • Documented all the work done using Microsoft Visio and Excel. Network Analyst Citco Fund Services - Charlotte, NC April 2015 to January 2016 Responsibilities:  • Troubleshoot end user network connectivity.  • Assign IP address/Reclaim IPs and switch-ports  • Configure switch-ports for various groups  • Provides WAN report graphs to different administrators regionally  • Monitor all connected devices via monitoring tools  • Report circuit issues to IPS providers  • Solve LAN/WAN routing, switching, firewall, and name resolution issues  • Resolve and escalate system alerts issues appropriately from start to completion  • Create, open, resolve and close tickets via Remedy incident system  • Coordinate between internal and external departments as necessary to bring closure to pending issues  • Investigate, analyze and document technical issues, then provide recommendation to upper management  • Racking and cabling of various networking equipment to ensure operational status  • Erase and reload Routers and Switches and configure to company standards  • Upgrade Cisco ASA 5510 series firewall software version to the latest codes Support Engineer Info Park Software Pvt. Ltd June 2013 to November 2014 Responsibilities:  • Design, install and support the organization's local area network(LAN), wide area network(WAN), network segment or internet systems  • Maintain network hardware and software, analyze problems and monitor the network to ensure availability to system users  • Monitor network and take appropriate action as per alerts to avoid down time  • Provides guidance to Network Technicians during responses to emergency work requests; troubleshoots network failures and errors; and diagnoses, isolates, and resolves routine to moderately/highly complex network related problems ensuring timely results and minimal disruption of operations and reports findings to the Network Engineer.  • Assists the Network Engineer with developing, monitoring, and implementing network security procedures for safeguarding all networking systems.  • Performs facility surveys for network communications and makes recommendations to the Network Engineer for the layout and location of network components, equipment, cabling, and wiring  • Created Network diagrams and documentation in Visio. Python Developer Info Park Software Pvt. Ltd July 2011 to June 2012 Responsibilities:  • Worked with various phases of the project like analysis, design, development, and testing.  • Good comprehend of Business requirement document (BRD) and creation of Low level design document (LLD).  • Testing and adapting the new applications for voluminous data.  • Project was managed by Chef Release engineering team.  • Deployed web applications on LINUX Environment by using Django Application Server.  • Dealt on Database Objects, Tables and views.  • Developing API's for new clients and creating new business logics accordingly for both scheduled and immediate transfers.  • Constructed UTP, UTC for each module change and involved in System Integration testing (SIT).  • Worked on Python Modules and Packages and Created project designs utilizing MVC architecture components.  • Developed Webpages using CSS, HTML and JavaScript's.  • Extensive coding using several Python Modules and controls to rapidly build application.  • Used Python Data structures like sqlite3, lists, dictionaries, and tuples.  • Experienced in working with complicated List comprehensions and various built-in functions like map, filter etc.  • Query Optimization through SQL server tools for quick response time  • Provide support during developing phase by coordinating with production field.  • Worked with various bugs fixing issues. Skills Cisco (2 years), firewall (2 years), LAN (3 years), networking (3 years), Visio (2 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SUMMARY  • 5+ years of software and Hardware industry experience, with strong analytical skills and a broad range of computer expertise in Network security & engineering, Python programming and its related frameworks.  • Passionate about Information Security and regular follower of information security trends, best practices and ongoing threats in the cyber world.  • Well Known about Switch security and Network security firewalls technologies.  • Experience in Cisco routers, Cisco/Nexus switches and LAN/WAN Network Support for TCP/IP based devices  • Experience in Internetworking with devices such as routers, switches and firewalls.  • Expertise in Routing- Layer 3, Switching - Layer 2, TCP/IP protocol suite and OSI Model.  • Experience in LAN networking technologies (Spanning-Tree, VLAN, VTP, DTP, HSRP, VRRP, GLBP)  • Detailed understanding of layer 2 protocols like VTP, VLANs, STP, Port Security.  • Routers: Planning, Designing, Installing, Configuring of Cisco routers using various protocols like RIP (v1 and v2), EIGRP, OSPF, BGP and VPN (Site to site, GRE tunnel) network technologies like NAT(static, dynamic, PAT) and Troubleshooting the connectivity issues and application problems.  • Experience in implementation, configuration & troubleshooting of 802.1q, ISL, IP Tunneling, Access Control Lists (ACL) and Cisco IOS.  • Experienced in Desktop, Laptop and other network device configuration, troubleshooting and change management.  • Worked with MPLS in establishing peer ship with BGP protocol and have good knowledge in IP Addressing, Sub netting and VLSM.  • Good knowledge on security operations Palo Alto, ASA firewall, Checkpoint and Juniper SRX.  • Experience in IP address management and IP services and Layer 4/7 troubleshooting.  • Experience in SNMP tools i.e., Solar winds and TCP/IP fundamentals.  • Hands on experience in Ethernet Communication (Vector Prevision and Mentor Volcano)  • Analyzing and troubleshooting network problems, DNS, DHCP Server Configuration and Troubleshooting.  • Good knowledge and experience in Installation, Configuration and Administration of Windows Servers 2000/2003, Active Directory, FTP, DNS, DHCP, TFTP, Linux OS under various LAN and WAN environment  • Profound knowledge on various WAN technologies like HDLC, MPLS, PPP.  • Experience in development methodologies like Agile Scrum and Waterfall.  • Self-motivated and proactive leader with technical and exemplary communication skills.  • Results-driven, "can-do" attitude, proven problem solving and troubleshooting skills.    TECHNICAL SKILLS    Operating Systems: Windows, Linux, UNIX, MacOS.  Routers: Cisco 800, 1900, 2800, 2900 and 3900 Series Integrated Service Routers, Cisco ASR 900,  1000, and 9000 Series Aggregation Services Routers, Juniper CSE2000, Juniper E Series  Broadband Services Routers  Switches: Cisco Catalyst 3750, 4500 E Series, 4500-X Series, and 6500 Series Switches, Nexus 7k,  5k, 2k series switches.  Scripting: HTML, CSS, Java script, J-Query and Angular JS, Python  Networks Protocols: LAN/WAN, WLAN, TCP/IP, DNS, STP, LACP, NAT, PAT, RIP, EIGRP, OSPF, DHCP, VPN,  FTP, TFTP, IPv4, IPv6, VLAN, VTP, VPLS, MPLS, HSRP, ESRP, GLBP, SNMP.  Software: VMware, Microsoft Outlook, Microsoft Visio, Autosar, Microsoft Office, IBM Notes,  Cisco Security Manager Suite, SaaS, Riverbed Technologies, Steel fusion and Steelhead.  Tools & IDE: PowerShell, Jenkins (build process), Eclipse Pydev, Wing 3.1, Vector PREEvision,  Mentor Volcano South Fabric deployment tool, Sublime, Eclipse, NetBeans.