Jr. Python Developer Jr.<span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Jr. Python Developer - Samaritan Health Plans Having 2 years of IT experience in Software Development with proficiency in developing Enterprise-based technologies.    • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python and Flask    • Experienced in Python's modules Regular Expressions, and OS modules  • Having good exposing REST API  • Have good exposure to Python, Flask, Django  • Experience in Databases like MYSQL  • Designing with MVC Paradigm, object-oriented principles/methodologies  • Experience in Analysis, Development, Bug fixes, Enhancement, Support and Implementation of various web, stand-alone applications using Python, Flask in various domains. Work Experience Jr. Python Developer Samaritan Health Plans - US February 2018 to Present Environment: PyCharm, Flask, MySQL  Project Summary:  Samaritan Health Plans is part of an extensive network hospitals, doctors, clinics, specialists and caring professionals who work in tandem to provide organizations and individuals with the best care and service possible. SPSM(Samarithan Patient Safety Managment) project mainly focuses on Doctor and Patient relation. SPSM facilitates hospital to manage patient right from registering to the same. SPSM provides quick reference to the past history of the patient, their symptoms, previously prescribed drugs, allergies, family history etc. Doctors can use this information for further advices. So doctors can refer patient history which others might have treated before. In this SPSM system, patient will also be facilitated by User ID and Password to get online appointment with specific doctor. So patients will not have problems to get appointments with the doctor of their choice like available hospital name, available timings etc. SPSM will track all the patient details like History, Diagnosis, Investigation and their visits to analyses patient history.    Roles & Responsibilities:  * Working for a Python based API (RESTful Web Service) using Flask, SQL Alchemy to rate the Organizations on standardized rating scale.  * Developing server based web application to determine patient journey using Flask.  * Developing the Object Oriented Programming to enhance company product Management.  * Maintaining patient relationship management databases (MySQL).  * Utilizing the in handling the all the hits on Flask and other applications.  * Wrote functions and simple procedures for applying business logic.  Project #2: Jr. Python Developer Moody's July 2017 to February 2018 Environment: PyCharm    Project Summary:  Moody's Credit Rating is an application where an organization is analyzed, researched and the company ranks the creditworthiness of borrowers using a standardized ratings scale which measures expected investor loss in the event of default. Moody's Investors Service rates debt securities in several market segments related to public and commercial securities in the bond market. These include government, municipal and corporate bonds. In Moody's Investors Service's ratings system securities are assigned a rating from "Aaa" to "C", with "Aaa" being the highest quality and "C" the lowest quality.    Roles & Responsibilities:  • Working for a Python based API (RESTful Web Service) using Flask, SQL Alchemy to rate the Organizations on standardized rating scale.  • Developing server based web application to determine ratings of debt securities in the bond market using Flask  • Developing the Object Oriented Programming to enhance company product Management  • Maintaining customers relationship management databases (MySQL )  • Developing the Python code for ORP campaigns using HTML. Education B.Tech. NRI INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGIES