Job Seeker Baltimore, MD Eric specializes in front-end web design and running backend web applications based on Python/Django  framework. He is Salesforce certified and has experience working with machine learning libraries such  as Natural Language Toolkit and TensorFlow. His experience provides him a range of knowledge with a  focus on developing tools and applications. Eric is proficient with multiple languages, comfortable  tackling new challenges, and also is familiar with multiple development frameworks. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience George Hardigg and Associates February 2016 to Present - Web design, Salesforce certification and training  - Python-based Machine Learning for Open Source Intelligence Collection and Analysis  - TensorFlow for Linguistic Analysis of Open Source Web repositories George Hardigg and Associates April 2016 to December 2016 - Used Python and Django to create the backend for a project management app for architects.  - Maintained and updated Javascript code.  - Used Github to collaborate, and manage code base. Javascript Developer Zeresoft November 2015 to March 2016 - Developed multimedia software using Javascript.  - Created HTML and CSS code. Javascript Developer Port Twenty2 February 2015 to September 2015 - Developed the Javascript HTML5 based frontend for an e-learning site.  - Used Github. Linux Administrator Morphtool February 2014 to December 2014 Created a Javascript app that allows a user to create an animation of two images being  morphed together.  - Designed web based interface using HTML and CSS.  - Worked with Nginx running on a Linux server. Python Developer/ Linux Administrator PLMH Holding Company August 2013 to September 2014 - Performed modifications to the web site of a real estate company.  - Created and maintained software using Python and Django.  - Maintained and installed software on a Linux based web server.    George Hardigg & Associates, Inc. | www.ghajobs.com | 11707 Fairfax Woods Way #11201, Fairfax, VA 22030 | 703.220.8860 Javascript Developer Tdevelopers January 2013 to May 2013 Worked as part of a team to create a web based database interface for a medical client.  - Used Python, with Django to build a web application.  - Worked with PostgreSQL server on Linux platform.  - Used a unit testing framework to ensure code quality.  - Used Github.    Special Projects and Skills  3d Demo (2015) - Created a 3d graphics demo in Javascript, using pure HTML5, with no WebGL, which allows a user to explore a 3d scene created with vector mathematics.    Module Player (2015) - Created a C++ program that plays music in the .mod format - a music file  format which was used for numerous video games and demos in the late 80s and early 90s.    Ludum Dare Game Competition (2015) - Created the code, art, and music for an HTML5 Javascript  game using the ImpactJS Javascript framework, for the 48 hour internet game creation competition,  Ludum Dare.    Tools: Linux, Vim, Git, TensorFlow, Salesforce  Frameworks/Libraries: Django, Jquery, SDL, MySQL, PostgreSQL, Bootstrap Links http://www.ghajobs.com