Java, Python,ErlangNetwork Developer Java,<span class="hl">Python</span>,ErlangNetwork <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java, Python,ErlangNetwork Developer Santa Clara, CA • 4 years of IT Experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Testing, Deployment and Implementation of Multi-Tier distributed applications using Java, J2EE Technologies.  • 1 year Erlang Development, analysis and testing  • Good experience on net setting and Cisco routers setting  • Good experience on DevOps tools, like Jenkins, Ansible. etc  • Good understanding of design patterns and n-tier architecture.  • Excellent Java development skills using J2EE, Servlets, JSON, JMS, JDBC, and Java Beans.  • Strong front-end UI development skills using scripting languages like JSTL, HTML5, JavaScript, JQuery and CSS.  • Experience on XML and parsing methodologies like DOM and SAX.  • Experience in Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) and developing Web services using SOAP, REST, XML, WSDL, JAXP XML Beans.  • Experience on security design and development using Asymmetric cryptograph, Kerberos Protocol, Spring Security  • Extensive experience in design, development and implementation of Model-View-Controller frame works using Sprint boot, Struts and Spring MVC.  • Extensive experience in development and implementation of ORM framework Hibernate/ Hibernate with Spring Data Access.  • Strong database skills in DB2and MySQL.  • Expertise in programming with SQL, PL/SQL and Stored Procedures.  • Experienced with Java Multithreaded programming to develop multithreaded modules and applications.  • Expertise in designing applications using various J2EE design patterns like Singleton, Value Object, Data Access Object, Factory, Session Façadeand Business Delegate Service Locator etc.  • Expertise in using and configuring various web & application servers like GlassFish, Apache Tomcat, Jetty and JBoss.  • Proficiency in programming with different Java IDE's like IntellJ, Eclipse and Netbeans.  • Extensive experience in Linux, UNIX, Shell scripting.  • Used log4J for application logging and notification tracing mechanisms.  • Worked with various Version Control Tools includingGitHub, Subversion,Tortoise SVN and.  • Experience on NoSQLDataBase including MangoDB, ElasticSearch Work Experience Java, Python,ErlangNetwork Developer Cisco System - San Jose, CA June 2016 to October 2017 Project is the Cisco Network Services Orchestrator (NSO), is an industry-leading software platform that does just that. It is used in many service provider networks today to automate services across traditional and virtualized networks .Developing new packages on top of NSO, the Cisco Intelligent WAN (IWAN).Cisco Intelligent WAN (IWAN) is a comprehensive set of traffic control and security features for the wide-area network that have been integrated into Cisco branch-office routers. IWAN supplies you with all the business-grade capabilities of an MPLS VPN - such as quality of service (QoS), WAN optimization, and VPN tunneling.  • Used NSO to deploy service setting, on board device and services  • Configured CPE routers and trouble shooting routers  • Developed services in NSO with Java and Erlang APIs, CDB API  • Realized Lay2 Lay3 setting,  • Developed Founctional Package with Java, Erlang and Python  • Used SDN and NFV to implement network topology with multi-vrf through MPLS and INET  • Created and updated yang data structure  • Used Restful to push configure to devices with Java and Erlang  • Built Listener on Rabbit MQ with Java and erlang  • Create ESC and CSP on OpenStack  • Adjusted cisco-ios, nx, NFVIS, CSP, NED yang profiles  • Developed northbound services with Java logic and yang construct file  • Used Netconf, confD to deploy payloads  • Developed southbound connnections with CDB(constant database)  • Built Docker image container for different running environment  • Developed Services in environment of NSO, modifed yang file for new service  • Worked with tail-f team with NED(IOS, ASA, WAAS) changes  • Created Jenkins Job, with different plugins, multibranch plugins, pipeline.plugiins  • Create installer software for new Service install with Ansible and bash  • Developed with python scripts for real Device simulatation and testing.  • Use VM Mastro and VIRL to simulate real time devices  • Documenting with confluence Wiki system  • Worked on JSON, XML, CLI formatted payload for devices  • Used git as source and version control tools  • Used Ant as project building tools, and construct build.xml using Ant  • Involved in fixing defects and troubleshooting issues on Linux environment and wrote Shell scripts to automate jobs.  Environment: Java, Python, Erlang, NSO, Bash, Linux Ubuntu, Cisco PNP, Cisco IOS. CDB, Ant, Jenkins, Ansible, Docker, Yang Java Server Developer Goldman-sachs - Salt Lake City, UT June 2015 to April 2016 Project "Spectrum" is the system facilitates the portfolio reconciliation between Goldman-sachs(GS) and GS counter parties as per regulatory requirements. Portfolio is a collection of trades between GS and GS counter party. Portfolio Reconciliation is the process of comparing GS portfolio to the counter parties portfolio and highlighting any trade level discrepancies such as Market To Market values. The system is based on Java based Spring architecture. This "Spectrum" has a capability to groups over-the-counter(OTC) trades by portfolio, sends those protfolios out for reconciliation, and assists portfolio reconciliation operations(Port Rec OPS) in reporting and resolving trade breaks that come as part of the reconciliation results. The System also helps to provide consistency in process between two counter partiest. The "Spectrum" enables to build "Margin UI" to provide Port Rec OPS to retrieve OTC result from reconciliation, OPS use this UI to track the progress of reconciliation.  • Used UML for developing Use Cases, Sequence Diagrams and preliminary Class Diagrams for the system and involved in low-level design  • Extensively used IntelliJ IDE for building, testing, and deploying applications.  • Developed the whole frame work for the projects, based on Spring MVC.  • Developed the presentation layer and GUI framework based on spring framework involving JSP, HTML5, JavaScript, AJAX, CSS  • Involved in writing JavaScript functions and implementation of AJAX on presentation layer  • Involved in fixing defects and troubleshooting issues on UNIX environment and wrote Shell scripts to automate jobs.  • Implemented various functions in Unix Shell Scripts as per the internal standards.  • Implement Autosys to schedule Java app  • Developed various helper classes needed following Core Java multi-threaded programming and Collection classes.  • Used multithreading in programming to improve overall performance.  • Apply pre-commit build, continue build and integration build on Jenkins  • Deploy code on non-production environment.  • Trigger regression test and fixed debugs along with testing  • Product Restful web service with data fetched from DB2  • Used JSON and XML formats to transfer data from the server.  • Interact with Restful web service with Angular.js controllers  • Interact with Jira as project management system which tracing progresses within project  • Developed controllers, repositories, Service modules, form beans and validations  • Developed beans and persisted bean in the database using JDBC template and Hibernate  • Involved in connecting bean with database using Hibernate configuration file  • Involved in development of Spring DAO layer which invoked database queries.  • Developed Session Beans for the transactions in the application.  • Created SQL queries, Stored Procedures, Functions for the Database layer by studying the required business objects and validating them with Stored Procedures. Also used JPA with Hibernate provider.  • Written Maven scripts to build the entire module and deploy it on Glassfish application Server.  • Implemented monitoring and established best practices around usage of ElasticSearchNoSQL service  • Build Integration run and deploy code by Jenkins  • Implemented JUnit framework to write test cases for different modules and resolved the test findings  • ImplementesJBehave framework to construct scenarios to realize regression test  • Used Subversion for software versioning and as a revision control system.Ensure that coding standards are maintained throughout the development process by all developers.  Environment: J2EE, Glassfish, Spring 3.1, Hibernate 3.4, JMS,, JSP, Java, Servlet, XML, HTML5, Maven 3, Javascript, Linux 5 Shell script, DB2, JMS, JDK 1.7, JDK 1.8, DAO, JPA, JSP, Servlet, AJAX, SVN, JDBC, XML, CSS, HTML5, JUnit, Angular.js, JQuery, ElasticSearch Web application Developer and Web Designer IntershellInternationCorporation , Gloucester, MAGloucester April 2014 to December 2014 Apr 14 - Dec 14 Web application Developer and Web Designer, IntershellInternationCorporation , Gloucester, MAGloucester  Intershell International Corporation was founded in 1992, and has operated since as a seafood processing and distribution company. Intershell have always endeavored to provide high quality seafood products to our customers, locally, nationwide and internationally.Dynamic web site design and programming using J2EE, MySQL, HTML5, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript, and Perl.Set up and administration of web servers and server software. Online business consulting from securing domain names, project planning, logo and graphic identity development, to online marketing, search engine placement and promotion.  • Gathered and organized the content and updated the content through Content Management System (CMS)Designed and Developed new relative pages with Restful and ajax  • Modify internal processing system with legacy PHP code  • Handled java backend development for dynamic database driven website  • Implemented, prepared, executed and installed support to assure quality system changes  • Troubleshot problems with J2EE and other web technologies.  • Involved in the process of Design, Coding and Testing phases of the software development cycle.  • Designed User Interface (UI) web applications using with web technologies like HTML5, HTML DOM, DHTML, XHTML, XML, XSL, XSLT and CSS.  • Developing front end screens to be cross-browse & cross-platform based application while using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, JQuery, JSON, DOM and AJAX.  • This application was written in Ajax, OO Java Script, JSP, JQuery, HTML5 and CSS3.  • Developed different JQUERY component in MVC micro architecture framework which internally use various design pattern such as singleton, command, delegate, etc.  • Redesigning the entire site with CSS styles for consistent look and feel across all browsers and all pages.  • Worked on integrating JQuery APIs with MVC pattern.  • Designed / Developed Ajax Driven Web based application using JavaScript, Ajax, JSON, JSPs and Servlets.  • Co-ordinate with QA for testing, Production releases, Application deployment and integration.  • Designed UI patterns, UX patterns, GUI designs, page illustrations, and user conceptual designs, templates and banners  • Developed tree widgets that support drag- and - drop using Dojo tool kit.  • Designed the project technical documentation in a presentation manner by using Adobe Flash CS3, Microsoft Word 2007 and Microsoft PowerPoint 2007.    Environment: Java, J2EE, MySQL, MySQL Bench, BootStrap, CSS, HTML5, CMS, XML, JavaScript, JQuery, TCP/IP, IIS, Adobe Dreamweaver CS3, AJAX, SVN Education M.S Northeastern University 2012 to 2014 Bachelor Electronic Information Engineeringfrom Northwestern Polytechnical University - Xi'an, CN 2007 to 2011 Skills JAVA (4 years), LINUX (2 years), AJAX (1 year), J2EE (4 years), JSP (4 years), Python (2 years), Erlang (1 year), Yang (2 years), Javascript (2 years), JQuery (2 years), bash (4 years), Docker (1 year), Ansible (1 year), Jenkins (2 years), Git (3 years), Relational DB (4 years) Additional Information SKILLS  Programming Languages Java, Python, Erlang, PL/SQL, PHP, C  Java Technologies J2EE, JSP, Servlets, Tag Libraries, EJB, JSTL, JSF, JNDI, JDBC, JMS, Ajax, Restful Web service, SOAP Web services, Apache Axis, Maven 2.0,Jenkins  Methodologies Agile,SDLC  Security Technologies Symmetric cryptography, Asymmetric cryptography, Spring security, SSL Certificate, Kerberos Protocol, SSH  Frameworks Struts, Spring, Hibernate, Ansible, OTP, LDAP, Angular.js, Google Cloud  Web Servers Glassfish, Apache Tomcat, Jboss. Node.js  IDEs IntelliJ, Eclipse, NetBeans, Notepad++, Sublime  Automation Tools Jenkins, Ansible, Docker  RDBMS Oracle, MySQL, MS Access, MangoDB, ElasticSearch  Scripting Languages Java Script, JSTL, CGI, Bashand AJAX  Source Control GitHub, Subversion, SVN and  Operating Systems Windows 7/vista/XP/2000, Linux, UNIX