python developer training <span class="hl">python</span> <span class="hl">developer</span> training Yonkers, NY • Over 2 years of experience developing, maintaining and managing web applications.  * MYSQL Server  * JAVA Programming  * Access  * Web Designing  • Highly adaptable in rapidly changing technological advancements with very strong analytical and organizational skills. Work Experience python developer training Sunnah Tech - Warren, MI September 2017 to November 2017 • Performed arithmetic fucntions and operations with strings methods  • Created tuples,lists,arrays ,dictionary in the system using pycharm  • Build files I/O,objects ,constructors and inheritence  • Build loops ,conditionla loops   • Written reusable and testable code  • Integrated data storage solutions.  • Implemented data security and protection. Junior Application Developer Imarine Software - White Plains, NY September 2016 to December 2016 • Developed, designed and maintained databases which includes schemas, permissions and tables for database as appropriate for its use  • Installed, configured and upgraded the server to suit the database needs  • Designed automated systems to acquire information and make reports  • Created objects in database like tables, views, functions, triggers, etc. Assistant Project Handler (HTML/.NET Programmer ) July 2013 to December 2014 • Used .NET techniques to design, develop, implement and manage web applications based on clients' specifications  • Monitored and documented entire phases of project development; Created objects modeling and process flow diagrams  • Used HTML/CSS to update and modify website content/images and made sure it was compatible with browser based on client's requirements  • Updated website contents, and modified images to reduce page loading time  • Searched and cropped images relevant to page content  • Re-formatted HTML and CSS code to make website browser compatible    Responsibilities:  • Tested the applications and websites on different web browsers to ensure a standard user experience for the clients across all platforms  • Performed root cause analysis, bug fixing, unit testing, and user acceptance testing to validate client requirements  • Actively participated in group discussions and attended SCRUM meeting with clients. Java Developer training Sunnah Tech - Warren, MI June 2017 Warren MI (JAVA Programming)  June 2017 to Present    • Worked on multiple JAVA projects under the supervision of a certified J2EE developer using the Eclipse Luna IDE.  • Applied object oriented concepts to develop application using concepts such as arrays, loops, conditional logic, Class methods and constructors, Interfaces, Packages, access modifiers, Inheritance, Encapsulation, exception handling, casting, reading and writing to files and more.  • Wrote applications that successfully connected to MySQL database and performed SQL queries to retrieve data using JAVA and JDBC.  • Developed a web application using J2EE platform using concepts such as MVC pattern, Jsp, Servlets, HTML, Apache Tomcat Web Server 7.0, web.xml, and deploying the web application on a hosting server.  • Used the Java Spring MVC framework and database connectivity to create a portal that accepted input from the users and stored the information in the database and used JSTL to display the content to the browser. Used Maven plugin within Eclipse IDE for development.  Environment: Eclipse Luna, J2SE / J2EE, Java Spring, Java Spring MVC, Maven, JSTL, PERL UML, JSP, Servlets, HTML, XML, MySQL database, MySQL Workbench 6.2, Apache Tomcat 7.0, JDBC. Education Touro College - Graduate School of Technology - New York, NY February 2017 to May 2017 Master of Science in Information Systems Touro College at Manhattan - New York, NY May 2017 Responsive Web Design Shadan Women's College of Engineering and Technology January 2013 to May 2013 Bachelor of Engineering in Computer Science JNTU University May 2013 Skills HTML (2 years), .NET (1 year), CSS (1 year), DATABASE (Less than 1 year), ACCESS (Less than 1 year) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/zakera-yasmeen Additional Information SKILL SET:    • Programming Languages: C, C++, Java, .Net.  • Web Technologies/Mobile: HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript (used HTML, CSS and AJAX), jQuery  • Database/Cloud Services: MySQL, MS SQL Server, Oracle DBA, Access  • Operating Systems: Linux, Windows7/10, UNIX