Software Developer Software <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer - Milton Security Group Fullerton, CA Software Developer, Machine Learning Engineer and Mobile Application Developer with 3+ years of industry experience in building real-world applications. Currently, I am working as a Software Developer at Milton Security Group developing various machine learning models to detect network anomalies and indications of compromise. Previously, I have worked on developing back-end of an E-commerce website, developed a complete E-commerce Android application from scratch and modified and developed a machine learning algorithm for Fast multivariate Time Series. I have also developed many open-source projects in my past time.     I enjoy being challenged, working on projects that require me to work outside my comfort and knowledge set, as continuing to learn new languages, and development techniques are vital to me. I can (and often do) work well alone, but I’m at my best collaborating with others.    I am a recent graduate with the Masters in Computer Engineering at California State University - Fullerton.    Feel free to contact me directly either at kulkarnisamvid92@gmail.com or directly through this profile. Work Experience Software Developer Milton Security Group - Fullerton, CA July 2018 to Present • Responsible for developing scripts to parse logs using Logstash, insert into Elasticsearch and discover co-relation among various events  • Modified existing scripts for better handling of log files and extract appropriate information  • Developing various Automated High Performance Machine Learning models for anomalies detection and Indicators of Compromise in Python  • Developing various Machine Learning models for network traffic analysis and user login predictions using Python Machine Learning Graduate Research Assistant California State University - Fullerton, CA May 2017 to May 2018 • Assisting Dr. Anand Panangadan in developing a new algorithm for the Fast Multivariate Sequential Time Series Classification.  • Modified Dynamic Time Warping Algorithm using K Nearest Neighbor to analyze Time Series and used Z-Score to normalize the series  • Developed machine learning and statistical modeling techniques to evaluate the algorithm to improve performance, quality, accuracy, precision,  recall, and to classify the time series into various categories based on the input value and the training dataset.  • Developed code for both univariate and multivariate time series and created excel file comparison of accuracy of the algorithm. Full Stack Python Developer Web Drills Pvt Ltd - Kolkata, West Bengal June 2014 to December 2015 • Writing efficient code in JavaScript and Python that is usable and testable  • Collaborating with peers on the technical and business teams and focus on back-office data processing.  • Used the Python language to develop web-based data retrieval systems and experience in designing and developing RESTful APIs.  • Building cross-browser compatible and highly scalable web applications.  • Writing tests and participating in the unit testing, quality assurance process, analyzing code for problem resolution and performance optimization. Software Developer Intern Spick Technologies - Ahmedabad, Gujarat January 2014 to May 2014 • Conceptualized, designed, developed and deployed the Android application for Diamond Traders.  • Documented technical specifications and maintained all reports related to application development process.  • Communicated with clients face to face to gather requirements, provide suggestions for the expected application and demonstrated applications on each playback at the client site.  • Implemented various functionalities like buying, selling, and searching for diamonds based on multiple criteria like size, shape, color, etc.  • Designed and developed Back-end API for the website to connect to the Android application using RESTful service. Education Master of Science in Computer Engineering California State University - Fullerton, CA May 2018 Bachelor of Technology in Information Technology U.V. Patel College of Engineering May 2014 Skills PYTHON (3 years), DJANGO (2 years), Java (1 year), C (3 years), C++ (2 years), ELK (1 year), Apache Spark (Less than 1 year), MySQL (3 years), SQLite (3 years), Javascript, Android (1 year), Git, HTML 5 (2 years), CSS (2 years), jQuery (2 years), flask (1 year), PostgresSQL (1 year), elasticsearch (1 year), Machine Learning (2 years), MySQL (3 years), Android (1 year), Logstash (1 year), Kibana (1 year), Mongodb (1 year), PostgresSQL (1 year) Links http://linkedin.com/in/samvid-kulkarni http://github.com/samvid1992 Certifications/Licenses Machine Learning April 2018 to Present Machine Learning, Overall Percentage: 93.7%  License number: K6KK7634QXL9  Certification URL: https://www.coursera.org/account/accomplishments/verify/K6KK7634QXL9 Additional Information Technical Skills  Programming Languages: Python, Java, C/C++, Kotlin, Android, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Matlab, Octave  Database: MySQL, Oracle SQL, SQLite, PL/SQL, JDBC, ODBC, Mongodb, PostgreSQL  Libraries and Framework: Numpy, Pandas, Tweepy, Textblob, Matplotlib, Django, Jupyter Notebook, TensorFlow, Scikit-Learn, Struts, Hibernate, JSP, Servlet, JEB, Spring, J2EE  Tools and Technologies: Github, Web Services, Gradle, Maven, Hadoop, Spark, Logstash, Elasticsearch, Kibana