Sr. Ruby on Rails Developer Sr. Ruby on Rails <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Ruby on Rails Developer - State of Florida Tallahassee, FL • IT experience of 5+ years in analysis, design, development, and implementation phases of numerous client/server applications using Ruby, Ruby on Rails, REST, Java/J2EE, JavaScript, Oracle, MySql, PostgreSQL.  • 4 years of experience and excellent knowledge of Ruby on Rails.  • Experience working with latest front-end frameworks like Bootstrap.  • Experience in working in Waterfall model and Agile development environment.  • Proficient in Model-View-Controller (MVC) architectures using Rails.  • Experience in Agile Development, Github, Amazon EC2, Amazon AWS and Heroku.  • Extensively used Ruby gems like Devise, JQuery, will paginate, Paperclip, Bundler, Rspec, capybara.  • Good experience in Java script, XML, JQuery, HTML5, CSS and AJAX.  • Used JavaScript frameworks like Angular.js, Node.js.  • Experience in various stage of software development life cycle includes requirements, analysis, design, development, deployment and testing of an application for business outputs.  • Experience using version control using Git (github, bitbucket), SVN.  • Deployment experience includes Amazon EC2, Heroku.  • Experience using Amazon S3 for storage.  • Experience working in TDD (test driven development) and BDD (behavior driven development) approach using RSpec/Cucumber on multiple platforms like Linux (ubuntu, redhat, centos) and Mac  • Developed and Deployed applications on Application Servers like Puma, Nginx, Phusion Passenger, Thin and Unicorn.  • Developed ROR customer facing applications, which meet the requirements outlined in our application development specification.  • Exceptional ability to Quickly master new concepts and capable of working in-group as well as independently with excellent communication skills  • Experienced in Application Development using Python, RDBMS and Linux shell scripting and performance tuning.  • Experience in using Version Control Systems like GIT, SVN and CVS. Good experience in Linux Bash scripting and following PEP Guidelines in Python Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Ruby on Rails Developer State of Florida - Tallahassee, FL September 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Developed web applications in Agile development methodology using Ruby on Rails, JavaScript, JQuery, HAML, CSS, SASS, TDD, MongoDB and pair programming.  • Used Rails, AJAX, JSON and jQuery to design the front end of the application. Back end of the application is develop mainly using Active Records.  • Unit tested the code with RSpec and Jasmine tests, and manages the code with GitHub  • Implemented Broad new features sets in the Rails backend, coded frontend functionality in JavaScript and implemented UX/UI with responsive HTML5/CSS.  • User Interface for website with ERB, JQuery, RJS, Ruby, Ajax for View, Controller, Model in Ruby on Rails Framework on Mac OS X Operating System.  • Provided validations and scope for many models in the database and created many associations within those models.  • MVC frameworks for the back-end while the front-ends were built using the Bootstrap CSS Framework and HTML and experienced with REST and SOAP based API's.  • Developed client side validation code using JavaScript and JQuery.  • Used CSS and java Script along with Angular JS.  • Implemented Behavior Driven Development with Cucumber and Test-Driven Development with RSpec.  • Implementing change requests scoped for different releases and providing technical support.  • Experience in automated testing and continuous integration tools such as like Jenkins, Cruise control, or Hudson.  • Used AWS-S3 gem to handle message metadata deployments.  • Maintained Cross Browser compatibility & implement Responsive Design using Bootstrap, custom media.  • Implemented and enhanced CRUD operations for the applications using the MVC architecture of Rails framework and Ruby conducting code reviews.  • Caching contents for Rails is used and queries are optimized for analyzing and improving application efficiency.  • Provided SQL scripts for querying Postgres SQL database.  • Involved and participated in Agile Extreme Programming (XP) and daily scrums, weekly estimations and retrospectives and pair programming, sprint planning meetings, reviews.  • Refactored code as required while working on the features and enhancements.  • Fixing the bugs and tickets filed by quality assurance and product management team.  • Collaborate with Product Management and User Experience experts regarding product definition, schedule, scope and project-related decisions.  • Received appreciations and compliments from users and Client regarding changes to site features. Ruby on Rails Developer AT&T - Dallas, TX October 2016 to September 2017 Responsibilities:  • Involved in complete software development lifecycle (SDLC) of client's business process by using their current system and continuous client feedback.  • Developed the back-end of the application using Rails which communicates with MySQL.  • Implemented application using Ruby and basic MVC architecture.  • Developed and tested many features in AGILE environment using Ruby on Rails, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, Rspec.  • Created Omni Auth authentication for the users so that they can automatically get logged-in if they are logged on to the company main developer website.  • Developed SOAP & REST Webservices for third party integrations.  • Resolved some critical bugs that have persisted for a long time through debugging.  • Followed the Agile software development methodology in developing the application.  • Worked closely with the product and the testing teams to understand the requirements, make necessary improvements and resolving the bugs.  • Good proficiency in continuous integration tools like Jenkins.  • Worked on deployments with CI/CT with Jenkins and configure the internal AT&T Jenkins to build to lower and higher environments.  • Responsible for Code-Review and enforce business standards and code standards are in place.  • Coordinated with multiple teams to fix critical issues. Handled Knowledge transfer sessions about the developed modules to the other teams.  • Involved in testing code using Rspec, Cucumber.  • Involved in setting up production servers using app servers and web servers like nginx and passenger.  • Provided back end application support for AT&T API systems.  • Perform troubleshoot application/deployment issues after deployment.  • Provide production support 24x7 as required for emergency fixes and deployments.  • Interacted with business analysts and developers to resolve software related defects issues  • Experience in using Amazon EC2 and deployment using Heroku.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Wrote multiple programs in Python to monitor virtual machine usage data using API calls  • Was actively involved in unit and functional testing, debugging, security, and documentation efforts. Python Developer Health Net - Oregon City, OR September 2014 to October 2016 Responsibilities:  • Involved in analysis, specification, design, and implementation and testing phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and used agile methodology for developing application. Upgraded existing UI with HTML, CSS, jQuery and Bootstrap.  • Working as an application developer experienced with controllers, views and models in Django.  • Restful web services using Python REST API Framework.  • Developing GUI using Python and Django for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of python code using a web browser.  • Developing and tested many features for dashboard using Python 3.x, Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Involved in back end development using Python with framework Flask Restful web services using Python REST API Framework.  • Developed scripts using pandas to easily perform read/write operations to CSV files, manipulate and compare data by columns.  • Developed complex web, middleware, and back end systems in Python, SQL and Perl for Linux and Windows.  • Automated Regular AWS tasks like snapshots creation using Python scripts.  • Build servers using AWS, importing volumes, launching EC2, RDS, creating security groups, auto-scaling, load balancers (ELBs) in the defined virtual private connection.  • Implemented the application using Python Spring IOC (Inversion of Control), Django Framework and handled the security using Python Spring Security.  • Tested entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Responsible for handling the integration of database systems.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  • Developed Server-side automation using Node JS scripting and connecting different types of SQL and NoSQL stores from Node JS.  • Used object-relational mapping (ORM) solution, technique of mapping data representation from MVC model to Oracle Relational data model with an SQL-based schema.  • Working on Loading and transforming large sets of structured, semi structured and unstructured data using Hadoop/Bigdata concepts.  • Implemented Performance tuning and improved the Performance of Stored Procedures and Queries.  • Used Jenkins for continuous integration for code quality inspection and worked on building local repository mirror and source code management using Git hub.  • Used GIT to coordinate team development.  • Used IDE tool to develop the application and JIRA for bug and issue tracking and Used JIRA to assign, track, report and audit the issues. Education Bachelor's