Software Development Engineer Intern Software Development Engineer Intern Graduating student looking for full-time as a software engineer San Francisco Bay Area, CA Work Experience Software Development Engineer Intern A9.com - Palo Alto, CA January 2014 to Present ? Currently working on a web application portal for manual approval of display ads content   ? Developed web applications in Ruby on Rails, HAML and Coffeescript frameworks, namely a  web application that allow publishers to manage their traffic monetization via display  advertising  ? Built and maintained a Java RESTful web service for concurrent management of messages  ? Worked with Amazon Web Services such as SQS and S3 buckets Software Developer Intern Exinda Networks - Waterloo, IA May 2013 to August 2013 ? Designed and implemented user web interfaces in jQuery, Javascript, PHP and MySQL for their  customer licensing portal and internal business system  ? Developed web applications in the Model-View-Controller (MVC) architecture, using Yii as the framework  ? Build automated tests in Ruby, using Watir webdriver and Cucumber framework  ? Fixed bugs in Java REST APIs Python Developer (Part-time) Freelance January 2013 to August 2013 Responsibilities  ? Wrote crawling scripts to automate the process of parsing information from websites and  PDFs and outputting them in CSV format    Skills Used  Python Web Developer Ratehub.ca - Waterloo, IA January 2012 to April 2012 Waterloo, Ontario  ? Designed and developed database-driven web tools using LAMP  ? Implemented web designs and interfaces using HTML, CSS, Javascript and jQuery  ? Set up a French version of their website Software Development Engineer Korora - Waterloo, IA March 2011 to April 2011 Won second place out of 31 teams participating in the computer game contest  ? Supplied and wrote the programming code and techniques for the game structure and objects Education Bachelor in Computer Science, Applied Math minor, Software Engineering Option University of Waterloo 2010 to 2015 Skills Ruby on Rails, PHP, jQuery, HTML, CSS, Android Additional Information Projects: Scheduloo  https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.scheduloo.cs446&hl=en May - Aug 2014  ? Developed an Android app for scheduling waterloo events and classes  ? Integrated Facebook, and Google maps SDKs for user login and location mapping  ? Built a backend platform for the app which is a Java REST API serving a MySQL database