Backend Developer Backend <span class="hl">Developer</span> Backend Developer - URBN Playground Jersey City, NJ Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Backend Developer URBN Playground - New York, NY September 2018 to Present • Responsible for developing and maintaining the backend RESTFul API of the application in python.  • Generated reports using WTForms to be used by admins to view and make changes to the data from the frontend.  • Using test driven development for the application and implementing the unit tests using Python unittest framework.  • Environment: Python (Flask), Jinja, WTForms, WTForms-Alchemy, PostgresSQL, SQLAlchemy Full Stack Developer Intern at Relevant Systems Chicago, IL July 2018 to August 2018 • Responsible for gathering requirements, design, development, testing and deployment. Built multiple websites from scratch for the clients of the company.  • Developed the backend RESTful API for login authentication and scheduling appointments. Integrated with the frontend for the desktop version of the website.  • Environment: HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, AJAX, JavaScript, Python (Flask), SQLite, SQLAlchemy Python & UI Developer Sashi Infotech - Hyderabad, Telangana August 2014 to August 2016 • Designed and developed the frontend and backend for websites for various clients.  • Used Bootstrap for creating rich, responsive UI Screens for varying screen sizes and devices.  • Web application development using Python2.7, Django, MongoDB, JavaScript, HTML, XML and template languages.  • Environment: HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, Python (Django), MongoDB Education Masters of Science in Computer Engineering Stevens Institute of Technology - Hoboken, NJ May 2018 Bachelor of Technology in Electrical and Electronics Engineering JNTU College of Engineering - Hyderabad, Telangana 2011 to 2015 Skills PYTHON (2 years), BOOTSTRAP (2 years), CSS (2 years), HTML (2 years), JAVASCRIPT (2 years) Links https://github.com/bhavitha590 https://upwork.com/fl/bhavithadasaram Additional Information Skills    • Languages: Python, Java, C/C++, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, Matlab, R  • Tools: PyCharm, Eclipse, git, Qt, Apache Spark, Jupyter Notebook, Google Compute Engine (GCP), Excel  • Frameworks: Flask, Django  • Databases: SQL, MongoDB    • Operating Systems: Windows XP/7/8/10, Linux (Ubuntu)