Python Engineer/ Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> Engineer/<span class="hl">Developer</span> Freelance - PDFMerger Merced, CA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Engineer/ Developer HowLoud Inc - Los Angeles, CA September 2014 to April 2015 Start up)  ? Developed plans, scripts and applications for data pulling and analytics to populate our Dynamo databases.  ? Build test website(Asp.net/AWS) integrated with arcgis to demo products to potential clients Software Consultant/ Python Developer BeckMan Casting - Los Angeles, CA August 2014 to April 2015 Develop mailing applications to aid in broadcasting of casting calls. Developed  automated response generator to simulate human responses and avoid spam  filters for different mail servers. Software Consultant/Vba Developer John Mcneil Studio - Berkeley, CA August 2014 to September 2014 Develop applications(VBA automation) and tools to aid the creative design  team to automate tedious tasks and presentations Software Consultant/ Java Developer Demand Media Inc - Santa Monica, CA February 2014 to May 2014 Developed suite of apps to monitor our online services Software Consultant TwelveStone Capital - Santa Clara, CA February 2014 to April 2014 Developed interface app to fully automate the process the realtors used to find and contact potential clients.  ? Had over 300% efficiency rate by cutting manual tasks time from 6+ hours to less than 2 hours. Software Consultant Private Studio, Ca January 2014 to March 2014 Developed apps to aid client in organizing contacts for a film studio.  ? Developed an app that scrapes airline websites to determine the best pricing for a pre-entered route Software Consultant/PIC Programmer Sacramento, CA 2012 to 2013 Programmed an LCD interface in c for the PIC18F22K. Data transfer mode  coded for SPI transmission. Education Computer Science and Engineering University of California Merced - Merced, CA Skills C, C++, Python 3, Java, Sparc v9, VB, VB.NET, VBA, XML, Mips32, JUnit, X8086 asm, JSON,PIC microcontroller, html5, J2EE, C#, php, Managed C++, Asp.Net javascript, Django, CSS, JSP, Python 2 MySQL, Dynamodb, OpenGL, Processing, Swing,DirectX, Windows DOM, Boost 1.5+, POSIX, Selenium, AWS, .NET FrameWork, IronPython, IMAP, SMTP, MediaWiki, javafx, Arobe Acrobat SDK, Source SDK Subversion: git ,github, svn Applications : Make, GDB, Excel, PowerPoint, Visual Paradigm, MS Office, Openoffice, umlet, IDE : NetBeans 7+, Visual Studio 2008+, Eclipse, PyScripter,jGrasp, MPlab 8.9+, Processing, Mars, sqlite Operating Systems : Penguin, Solaris, Linux, Windows,Windows Server 2012, Ubuntu, Mac OSX Scripting : Powershell, Shell Script, Linux Command Line, Windows Cmd, Python Command Line, Apache Tomcat, GlassFish, UML, MySQL Links http://github.com/aamesi Additional Information Projects:  PDFMerger:  .Net Tool to automate merging of pdfs. Capable of combining pdfs from urls.  Utilizes Adobe SDK.  :  Service Monitors  Java Tools to monitor routers/ports/and scrape websites to provide a detailed  report about the companies services in real time. Written in swing with a GUI  that  was ported to Mobile. Allowed quick notification of server statuses. Later Linked to a MySQL Database to generate reports for server productivity.  MultiThreaded.  AutoSpond:  Java App utilizing imap, pops, and smtp to auto respond/ broadcast messages.  Allowed simultaneous responses(multithreaded) on different severs including  gmail, hotmail, and yahoo. GUI enabled.  Dream 2D?:  2D Physics Engine built from the ground up written in c++ using opengl for portability. Takes advantage of vector architectures to increase speed for  floating point calculations. Still currently a WIP.  Intelius Search?:  Screen Scraper to Streamline efficiency. The Realtors were manually pulling  information from a website, exporting to excel, and then manually inputting that  data into Intelius premiere. This program automated all of that increasing their  efficiency and doing a days worth of work in less than a quarter of the time by interfacing with a dom model(in vb) to create a bot that connected to Intelius  premiere, logged in, went through contacts in Excel and scrape their  information one bye one.  Sparc Assemble? r:  Written in Java and Cup. Wrote a Parser and "compiler" that would break down  C code into Sparcv9 instructions and run them on a Solaris Machine.  Supported procedures, structures, pointers, references, global variables, printf, as well as  arithmetic functions(including floats).  LinkedIn Search?:  Linkedin public and Linkedin Private Scraper. Written in python using  Beautifulsoup to crawl pages on the site and export data to csv files.  Connect 4?:  Written in Java to take advantage of OO design. Allowed for 1v1 matches against AI or human. Used BFS to determine which move the AI should make.  Cache Simulator?:  Cache Simulator written in C. Simulates L1,L2,L3, and n way associative  caches.  Mips32 CPU Simulator?:  Mips simulator written in c. Took 32 bit instructions(unsigned ints) and decoded them based on instruction type. Written in C.  ASCII Bomberman?:  Worked on a single player Bomberman clone. Graphics where done using  ASCII art. Used Posix API to manage concurrency. Written in C for Unix.  Mips32 Sprintf?:  Sprintf written in mips32.