Senior UI Developer Senior UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior UI Developer - PNC Bank New York, NY • Dedicated and passionate software Developer with over 3 years of professional experience in  designing and implementing User Interface (UI) Design, web applications, desktop & Android  applications by using various technologies like Java, JavaScript, jQuery, REST, JSON, AngularJS  2.0 and 6.0, HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, and AJAX GIT.  • Proficient in designing, developing and maintaining user interface for Android Applications using  Android SDK as a freelancer.  • Full knowledge of SDLC (Software development life cycle) and Mobile SDLC.  • Exceeded business and client requirements 100% of the time.  • Extensive tested high-quality android games that included fame functionality, server-side  integration and animations.  • Extensive experience in Object oriented programming (OOP) implementation to maintain a  modular design that is easier to modify and debug.  • Hand-on experience in using Material Design to create simple UI and easy UX for different layout  types.  • Data parsing and transmission between different states of the application.  • Developed and uploaded multiple apps to Google Play store Web service.  • Familiar with Version Control Tools like Git and CVS.  • Experienced in various methodologies like Waterfall and Agile.  • Strong communication, problem-solving ability, excellent performance in teamwork. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior UI Developer PNC Bank - Pittsburgh, PA April 2018 to Present PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. (stylized as PNC) is a bank holding company and financial services corporation  based in Pittsburgh. PNC is ranked 9th on the list of largest banks in the United States by assets. It is the 5th largest  bank by number of branches, 6th largest by deposits, and 4th largest in number of ATMs.  I have worked on project called "redesign" where most of the old fashioned ("Legacy PNC Design") were changed to Angular 6.0, JQuery. Using material components. Therefore, the customer can have a great User Experience  making the application very easy and clean to use.    Responsibilities:  • Used JSON framework to parse data packages from server responses from API services.  • Transformed code from JQuery to Vanilla Javascript.  • Produces clean, scalable, modular, well structured, testable code in Angular.  • Used Agile process where we discussed various stories with developers, BSA and all the teams to coordinate  with them in resolving the problems before going to production so QA could test and approve it.  • Implemented Material Angular framework to make a clean and simple way to use User Interface.  • Worked on projects from scratch to make them scalable and reusable components on future projects.  • Built JSP pages so it can be positioned in any view when required.  • Used JIRA and VersionOne for issue tracking, and web pack for minification.  • Ensure the application are properly integrated with the right APIs calls to communicate in real time.  • Worked with Agile software lifecycle methodologies. Create design documents when and as required.  Perform coding, debugging and testing.  • Following Scrum methodology to track the project details and updating the development status every day in the SCRUM Meetings, Sprint planning, Sprint Review, grooming and release planning.  • Worked in conjunction with back-end to do end-to-end testing to fetch resources from the app and backend  server.  • Used Git and Bitbucket to keep track of the project changes and version control.  • Used SmartGit to check in, do Pull Requests and Merge code for every sprint and release.  • Developed the User Interactive web application in a professional manner with using web technologies like HTML5, CSS3, JSP, Angular 6.0, JavaScript and Angular.JS , as per company's standards.    Environments: AngularJS 6.0, JQuery, JSP, Vanilla Javascript, JSON, Java, XML, Git, Spring MVC, Regex,  SCRUM, REST (web service), OracleDB, JIRA, VersionOne, SmartGit. UI developer Barclays Investment Bank - New York, NY April 2017 to December 2017 Barclays Online Banking is a British multinational investment bank and financial services company headquartered in London. Apart from investment banking, Barclays is organized into four core businesses: personal banking, corporate  banking, wealth management, and investment management.    Responsibilities:  • Developed the User Interactive web application in a professional manner with using web technologies like HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, Less, JavaScript and Angular.JS , as per company's standards.  • Discussed various performance related issues with developers and architect teams and coordinated with them  in resolving the problems before going to production and thereby giving a QA pass for the application  • Developed client side validation code using Angular.js.  • Implemented design process upon client approval and built out all assets: buttons, products shots, UI  components, etc and part of a team which designed and developed the layouts of Customer Relations Module.  • Front End UI developer with solid understanding of database designing, development, JavaScript Libraries  and installation of different modules.  • Written SQL Queries to interact with Oracle database. Well-versed in Object Oriented Programming (OOP)  with JavaScript.  • Worked with the team of architects and back-end Developersto gather requirements and enhance the application functionality and add new features. Developed and Implemented Web Services and used Spring  Framework. Collecting the set of features to be implemented in the application Used Eclipse Ide for development and SVN for Version Control.  • Used AngularJS Http Request to read data from web servers and process JSON data to render in the UI.  • Working with business system analyst to understand the requirements to ensure that right set of UImodules  been built.  • Take the design "brief" to record requirements, prepared rough drafts and discuss with the team  • Creating wireframes, mockups, prototype specifications and navigation maps for communication of designing ideas.  • Responsible for ensuring the pattern consistency across all pages.  • Converted wireframes into functional CSS3, HTML5 and JavaScript code.    Environments: Java, XML, Git, AngularJS, JQuery, JSON, Spring MVC, Regex, SCRUM, Retrofit, Material  Design, Jira. REST (web service), MySQL. Junior Android developer Grand Central Tech - New York, NY May 2016 to December 2016 As the Center of Excellence for New York's Tech Sector, Grand Central Tech provides all the critical resources for transformational startups to achieve scale. All under one roof. I Worked on different projects to accelerate different  startups on their own products.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in development of user interface using Java (OOP), XML and JSON.  • Used MVC design patterns for building the Single-Page (SPA) AngularJS application.  • Use Gson framework to create configuration files and data sets for an efficient, and flexible performance to build user interface.  • Implemented nested views and groupviews using XML to create the UI as per the business logical  requirements.  • Use Android Studio as IDE to compile android application's source code and simulate.  • Used SQLight to create custom tables to store different temporal kind of data (mostly used as cache)  • Designed navigation bar, sidebar filters for data, strict filters for exact match search (Regex  implementation) and other re-usable sections.  • Used JIRA for issue tracking, BitBucket for version control, and web pack for minification.  • Worked with Agile software lifecycle methodologies. Create design documents when and as required.  Perform coding, debugging and testing.  • Following Scrum methodology to track the project details and updating the development status every day in the SCRUM.  • Composing with improvement group, QA group, Scrum expert, Product Owner and Senior administration to refine requirements and address issues.  • Implemented RESTful API to fetch resources from the app to the java based backend server.    Environments: Java, XML, Git, AngularJS, JQuery, JSON, Spring MVC, Regex, SCRUM, Jira. REST (web  service), MongoDB. Junior Python Full Stack Developer Place Pixel - New York, NY February 2015 to December 2015 Place Pixel is a vast message board for every place on earth, spotlighting the hidden, quirky, and trending things that  make city life special. Think of it like a Reddit for real locations. The goal of my project was to create assets of places so the application has a vast data of places to populate it on their map. Therefore, I had to automate every  script so it can be re-usable for later use.    Responsibilities:  • Designed python scripts to scrape different data-sets from websites different targeted places.  • Programmed scripts that parsed the scraped data.  • Debugged and analyzed different python scripts from the company to automate then.  • Designed and automated python scripts to scrape different datasets.  • Developed unique and innovative solutions to problems. • Wrote Clean concise, and well documented code.  • Researched and used unfamiliar REST and SOAP based APIs.  • Programmed scripts that parsed the scraped data.  • Deployed and bug reporting.    Environments: Python2.7, and such popular pages as Requests, Soap, BeautifulSoap, SQL, NoSQL,  Docker, HTML, Javascript, Windows, Jira, Photoshop, AJAX. Junior Full Stack Developer Mr-draft January 2013 to May 2014 Mr-draft is a company that offers services such draft system installations, troubleshooting and repairs, beer line  cleaning, emergency service and custom build towers. The goal of my project was to create single page application so he can pay for ads so the company can be exposed to more people to know about it. I was selected to be in charge  of the website management since the development finished to add or remove things.    Responsibilities:  • Worked with web designers to develop user interfaces and prototypes for a web-based internal  system.  • Developed the application as Single Page Application using JQuery framework.  • Worked on front-end pages using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, and jQuery.  • Handled all the client side validations, slide show, hide and show controls, dropdown menus  and tab navigation using jQuery and Custom CSS API as the costumer chose.  • Extensively used AJAX to consume data from Backend RESTful Services.  • Developed cross-browser pages using CSS3, HTML5, and JavaScript, jQuery UI.  • Designed the documents File Picker system with Node JS.  • Used QUnit to test JavaScript Unit, tested JavaScript using Jasmine framework  • Used Git to control version update.  • Provided the L3 support for the front-end part of this application.  • Participated in all the team activities with the Agile methodology.    Environments: Angular.js, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, jQuery, AJAX, Adobe Experience Design (XD), Adobe  Photoshop, Node.js, Bootstrap, LESS/SASS, Responsive Web Design, Bootstrap, jQuery UI, JSON, DOM,  Agile, Eclipse and Windows, Jira. Education Bachelor's Skills Git (3 years), JAVASCRIPT (3 years), JSON (3 years), jQuery (3 years), HTML5 (2 years) Additional Information Skill Set:    Android Technologies: Android SDK, HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, JSON, SQL  Frameworks/Libraries: Android API, XML, AngularJS, Node.js, jQuery, Lodash, Bootstrap, LESS, SASS.  Databases: MySQL, MongoDB, Oracle Sql.  Programming Languages: Java, Python, PHP, AngularJS, JavaScript.  Methodologies: Agile, Waterfall, Test Driven Development  IDE & Tools: Android Studio, Eclipse, Sublime, Firebug, Developer Tools, Adobe Photoshop,  Dreamweaver, Adobe Experience Design (XD).  Testing Tools/Frame Work: Android Studio, Karma  Version Control: GIT, Bitbucket