Associate Programmer ( Python & Java) Associate Programmer (<span class="hl">Python</span> &amp; Java) Software Engineer - Data Scientist Tempe, AZ Work Experience Associate Programmer ( Python & Java) Infosys - Phoenix, AZ October 2018 to Present • Developed back-end software from scratch using Java, SQL, Spring and Hibernate.  1. During training we had to implement a hotel back-end that would validate credit card information, names, dates, email and phone numbers using Regex.  2. We had to implement a relational database and write bookings to the database.  • Integrate features using Python.  • Modified an existing code base of Java, Spring and Hibernate and implemented SQL queries and gave a front end interface using TypeScript, Bootstrap, HTML and CSS.  1. During training we had to implement a website for an online retailer (internal use only). There was an existing code base for the back end that needed modification.  2. We populated users and items from a database and displayed different items depending on the page, user and type of user (consumer or seller).  3. We had a fully functioning website that could be logged into, registered, view profile, edit profile and buy/sell items. Python Programmer / Intern Kelli Ward for U.S. Senate - Tempe, AZ January 2018 to September 2018 Worked with the candidate or a representative to come up with system requirements, design requirement documentation for future use, implemented requirements, design testing requirements and implement testing requirements to ensure bug-free code.    • We had a pay to use program that was crucial to the campaign and the campaign was informed that it would be down for 1 week before we had a major campaign event. I rewrote this application from scratch over the weekend. It was an application to send out text messages to a database of users and record responses for the candidate to view reports on. All of this needed to be done from the phone. I used the Twilio API for sending and receiving texts. Other libraries used were glob, flask and ngrok.  • I automated others jobs on the campaign by analyzing their daily tasks. One example was I automated a task that was to be done manually by two people everyday and would take about half a day. I wrote a multipurpose program that would only require them to put a CSV file in a folder and run the cells of a Jupyter Notebook. It kept track of voting information if someone has sent in a ballot, where they were from, if they moved or changed parties and a few other pieces of information. This was to go in tangent with the texting app and our calling in order to streamline who we reached out to.  • I wrote a twitter bot to keep track of tweets about various topics that the campaign needed to follow such as the candidate and opponents. I used the Twitter API to get tweets and filter in different ways and used sentiment analysis in order to group types of tweets to be viewed later. Software Engineer Intern (Extended Reality Developer) General Dynamics Mission Systems - Scottsdale, AZ August 2017 to May 2018 I worked on one long term project that used augmented reality (Microsoft Hololens) and virtual reality (HTC Vive) in order to map the environment from the Hololens to the virtual environment of the Vive. Then the Vive user's camera would scan them and they would be mapped into the Hololens environment inorder for two people to work remotely to reduce system downtime.    • I designed Hololens modules to be integrated into the extended reality application.  • I learned a new language and coding environment in order to perform my tasks on the project.  • I explored documentation and online code for the Hololens which had minimal usable documentation at the time. The documentation I wrote would be used for future internal projects.  • I assisted in trade studies and design of the system. Teaching Assistant and Executive Section Leader Arizona State University - Tempe, AZ August 2016 to May 2018 My duties included lecturing, writing course materials and leading other ASU 101 Section Leaders in the Computer Science Department. During this job I wrote the Python section for the CSE 240 class.     • The ASU Experience (ASU 101) – Executive Section Leader  • Intro to Programming in C++ (CSE 100) – Lab TA  • Assembly Programming and Computer Organization (CSE 230)  • A Survery of Programming Languages (CSE 240)  • Data Structures and Algorithms (CSE 310) – Recitation TA  Education Certificate in Cognitive, Linguistic and Symbolic Systems Arizona State University May 2018 BS in Computer Science (Software Engineering) May 2018 Skills Tensorflow (1 year), Python (3 years), C++ (3 years), R (1 year), Data Visualization (2 years), Data Analysis (1 year), Linear Regression (1 year), Statistics (1 year), SciKit-Learn (1 year), Pandas (1 year), Tableau (1 year) Additional Information Undergraduate Projects and Presentations  • Text Classification and Sentiment Analysis (Project)  • Sound Processing and Compression (Project)  • Spherical Conformal Mapping (Project)  • Facial Recognition Using Generalized Multidemsional Scaling (Project)  • Mapping Face Tracking to Computer Input (Project)  • System Security Review on Meltdown and Spectre (Presentation)  • De-Anonymization of Private Data / Differential Privacy (Presentation) 