Backend Developer Backend <span class="hl">Developer</span> Tempe, AZ A Computer Science Graduate with research experience in the area of image processing and biodata analysis. Have worked on  feature extraction and feature matching techniques during the research phase. Always an enthusiast to learn new things and apply  them in real world. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Backend Developer January 2016 to Present Resolving and debugging the application running part on the heroku server. The next stage oft he work includes to match profiles  based upon the interests of people. This app is purely developed in Python using Django REST API.  Movie Rating prediction using Twitter Analysis(ongoing)  The project deals with the prediction of imdb rating for a newly released movies based upon the response for the movie in twitter. The project is based on regression analysis and sentiment analysis. This project is developed in Python.  Compiler Design  As a part of acedemic curriculum, a python compiler has been designed which has support to perform functions on primitive data  types, do logical operations. Python Developer June 2016 to August 2016 Worked on a python application on django and redis server. The app used wsgi interface. The app is currently online and have  developed securities and user tangibility for the application.  Question Answering System on Remedia Corpus  A computer based question answering system wherein, when given a paragraph of text and some question based on the paragraph(such as who, what, where, when and why). The goal is to perfectly answer those questions and approaches such as  graph matching and bag of words are used while developing this project, the system currently delivers an accuracy of 45-50% which by the end of the project will increase. Parts of Speech Tagger September 2015 to November 2015 Designed a parts of speech tagger based on Hidden Markov Models and tested it on a test database of 25000 sentences and attainted an accuracy of 92.3 percent, the train dataset was 1 lakh sentences. This project was done in Python. Research Assistant IIITM Gwalior July 2014 to May 2015 Studied in-depth course of images analysis and face recognition and developed a new feature extraction and recognition algorithm  using linear binary patterns of the image. Where-in with as low as 4 training images, a person can be identified in realtime from a  database of over 10000 images. Internship Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh May 2014 to July 2014 Developed a php based software which facilitates the tracking of a given file at any given time in a given office. This was very  useful to mitigate the delay in the processing of stagnated files.    MAJOR UNDERGRAD PROJECTS  Energy conservation using LDD.  As a part of college development program formulated and devised a working model of energy conservation using Light detecting  diodes, Which have been successfully used in the streetlights of ABV-IIITM Gwalior.  E-commerce Based Cloth Color detection  Developed a Matlab based color detection application, which parses clothes section of an e-commerce website and from every  image it returns the most dominant color of the dress. Initial settings may be adjusted to produce clothes of only a required color.  Unique ID Management  Formulated a simple yet effective technique on how a unique id for each person can be useful. A working model of website was  built to show the apparent uses and how such an ID can be interlinked. This was revered as one of the best projects in the course. Co-ordinator and Event Head November 2012 to March 2013 Successfully organized, Planned and conducted every detail of TWARAN, a national level sports meet of ABV-IIITM gwalior  India. In which more than a 1000 students participated over a stretch of 4 days and successfully managed and coordinated a group of 200 students during the course of Twaran. Education Masters in Computer Science Arizona State University - Gwalior, Madhya Pradesh May 2017 Additional Information SKILLS  Programming Skills HTML, PHP, CSS, C, C++, Python, Java    Other skills Pymongo, Django, SPSS, Heroku, MS Office, Post Gre  Sql, Matlab, Photoshop  Interpersonal Skills Excellent verbal and written communication skills  Operating Systems Linux, Windows, Unix