Internship Internship Software Engineer Moscow, ID - Expertise in building back-end systems and functionality. | Python, Go  - Experience with SQL databases. | Postgres  - Experience with REST APIs, message queues and asynchronous processes. | Asyncio, Celery, RabbitMQ  - Experience with the cloud platforms. | AWS, Travis  - Experience with the containerization. | Docker, Swarm, Flocker  - Proficient with Unix platforms. | Linux, OS X  - Organising Bitcoin/Ethereum meetups in Moscow.  - Understanding of the cryptographic principles underpinning of Blockchain technologies. | ECDSA  - Experience with networking protocols. | TCP, UDP  - Passionate about:  - Bitcoin, Ethereum and other technologies are built on blockchain  - Building services and interaction between them Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Internship IPONWEB July 2015 to October 2015 - Working on complex high load projects deployed across the world  - Development of business logic in form of Lua programs.  - Functional testing of implemented business logic using Perl test framework.  - Support of offline backend data processing programs in Perl. Python Backend Developer MoscowTrip April 2015 to September 2015 An attempt to create an application which allow people to search for fascinating Moscow tourists trips.  - Implementing the main logic of interaction with Yandex Map cards. Python Backend Developer Absortium - Moscow, ID February 2015 to July 2015 Absortium - service which allows to pay for Ethereum smart contracts by BTC. Implementing Ethereum wallet.    - Implementing exchange, withdraw, deposit logic with Celery and RabbitMQ.   - Implementing logic of atomic access to accounts with PostgreSQL locks. - - Implementing interaction with Coinbase and Poloniex.    Github: https://github.com/absortium/deluge Software Developer Absortium - Moscow, ID 2015 to July 2015 Absortium - service which allows to pay for Ethereum smart contracts by BTC.  Implementing Ethereum wallet.  Implementing exchange service logic.  Implementing interaction with Coinbase and Poloniex. Python/? Developer T-Platforms - Moscow, ID August 2014 to February 2015 - Working on software for control units high performance computing clusters.  - Working on company internal scripts using Python script language.  - Coordination with other teams on integration issues. Laboratory Assistant National Research Nuclear University - Moscow, ID July 2014 to September 2014 - Implementing algorithm for extracting valuable data by using brain-computer interface (BCI). Python Developer FINTECH - Moscow, ID January 2014 to August 2014 - Investigate programs for vulnerabilities using Python and IDA Pro as main tools.  - Learning main vulnerabilities like stack, heap overflow, ROP gadgets attack. Education BS in Computer Science National Research Nuclear University MEPHI September 2011 to September 2015 Skills Python (3 years), Go (Less than 1 year), asyncio (Less than 1 year), RabbitMQ (Less than 1 year), Docker (Less than 1 year), AWS (Less than 1 year), PostgreSQL (2 years), Bitcoin (Less than 1 year), Ethereum (Less than 1 year), REST API (Less than 1 year) Links https://github.com/AndrewSamokhvalov https://ru.linkedin.com/in/andrewshvv