Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Web Developer aspiring to be a Data Scientist Hampton, NH Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Cheetay Logistics (Pvt.) Ltd August 2016 to March 2017 • Designed a food blog using Bootstrap and jQuery; wrote backend services to serve content using Django.  • Produced routine and ad hoc reports using MySQL and MS Excel.  • Researched and wrote scripts using the Python modules, csv (to import and export information), MySQLdb and sshtunnel (to connect to the database and execute queries) to update over 12 months of incorrect order status data.  • Troubleshot issues as well as defined the product roadmap based on the strategy and vision of the company; managed prioritization and trade-offs among customer experience and site performance.  • Wrote complete and detail-oriented product requirements documents, ensuring clear communication of those requirements to the business, design, usability and development teams.  • Helped the Operations Manager streamline workflow activities and manage Rider information.  • Responsible for the weekly email newsletters sent to subscribers. IT Representative Asia KAYMU - Rocket Internet SE July 2015 to July 2016 • Designed and developed the transactional, promotional and informational emails used to communicate with buyers and sellers using HTML and CSS; set up Google Analytics tracking and created reports on Google Spreadsheets to analyze the performance of the emails.  • Fetched URLs of product pages and scraped useful information from those URLs, using urllib2 and BeautifulSoup, from different e-commerce websites to research and recommend industry best practices to drive product personalization initiatives.  • Developed a Chrome Extension using HTML, JavaScript and CSS for the Content Team to flag products with erroneous data, used the Imgur API to post screenshots.  • Developed a web application using Web2py, Bootstrap and jQuery to ease the transition of the products from the old category tree to the new one after the category tree revamp.  • Part of the team that set up Zendesk, a CRM software, to ensure streamlined and smooth operations.  • Analyzed, identified shortcomings and helped improve existing listing review process.  • Detected data discrepancies on different platforms and worked in liaison with the Central IT Team to fix them. Front-End Web Developer Intern KAYMU - Rocket Internet SE June 2014 to August 2014 • Assisted the Product Manager in the day to day operations of the Production Department.  • Developed email marketing campaigns according to the design specifications provided by the Graphics Team using HTML and CSS. IT Systems Management Intern General Electric, GE June 2009 to August 2009 • Aided the CMMS & IT Manager during the implementation of IBM Maximo, a software to optimize the performance of assets and maximize return on investment. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science GIK Institute of Engineering Sciences and Technology September 2011 to June 2015 Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/adamqazi https://github.com/adamqazi Additional Information SKILLS  Programming/Scripting Languages: Python, C/C++, SQL/MYSQL, Javascript, HTML, CSS, Google Apps Script, JSON, XML  Frameworks and Tools: Django, Web2py, jQuery, Bootstrap, urllib2, BeautifulSoup, Google Analytics, Google Sheets, MS Excel, MS Word, Zendesk, JIRA, Experian Mail Solution, MailChimp