IT Technician IT Technician Head Editor Brooklyn, NY Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Technician Molod Spitz & DeSantis, PC - Times Square, NY April 2018 to Present • Provided on-site computer repair services, troubleshooting, software deployment, optimization and recommendations to a small law firm.  • Prepared new workstati¬¬ons locally and server side for resource integration   • Provided management and editing of the website (HTML, CSS) along with keeping up security measures such as DMZ Python Developer Per Scholas Institute for Technology - Bronx, NY May 2018 to July 2018 • Learned from an instructor led class with daily challenges and occasional projects.  • Logic tables, conditions and making decisions, Git, Bash, Web design, debugging, modules/cases/objects, Loops, OOP concepts. Project Leader/ Developer Hackchella - Midtown New York, NY April 2018 to April 2018 • Led a team of security and software professionals to create a Block chain application using Python and Java on both Windows and OSX machines.  • Had two days to compete against other developers and won best Block Chain application. Network Technician Per Scholas Institute for Technology - Brooklyn, NY December 2017 to March 2018 • Worked hands on with break and fix desktops, routers, management software and numerous operating systems including but not limited to Windows, Cisco, Mac, and Linux based distributions.  • Obtained two CompTIA certifications (Network+ and A+) through rigorous boot camp style training and obtained a certificate of excellence. Medical Scribe ScribeAmerica - Brooklyn, NY May 2017 to December 2017 • Personal assistant to the physician; performing documentation in the Electronic Heath Records, gathering information for the patient's visit, and partnering with the physician to deliver the pinnacle of efficient patient care.  • Prepared computerized physician order entry for review and discharge orders.    During time at medical center, worked along side IT professionals fixing database and network issues on Windows machines. Head Editor University of Bridgeport Scribe - Bridgeport, CT January 2016 to May 2017 • Manage University of Bridgeport's newspaper for 12-15 hours per week; facilitate weekly newspaper meetings to discuss issue topics, future articles and editorials, and student/faculty interviews.  • Edit and publish 5-7 newspaper issues per semester featuring articles about the local community, student relations on campus, business reviews, art and music, and student opinions. Marketing Educational Opportunity - Bridgeport, CT January 2016 to May 2016 Student Teacher  • Attended weekly meetings and classes to practice presentation skills and form opinions on prevalent issues.  • Assisted 30+ peers with academic assignments and exam preparation weekly after class; collaborated with professor to design curriculum and teaching materials based on student progress. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science University of Bridgeport - Bridgeport, CT May 2017 Skills Network Administration (1 year), Computer Hardware (2 years), Python (1 year), Medical Terminology (1 year), Electronic Health Records (1 year), SQL (1 year), Java (Less than 1 year), Windows Server 2012 (Less than 1 year), Hipaa (1 year) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/terrence-g-it/ Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+ March 2018 to March 2021 CompTIA Network+ March 2018 to March 2021 Driver's License Present Additional Information Technical Skills    Scribe America, Brooklyn, NY April 2017-December 2017  Medical Scribe  • Personal assistant to the physician; performing documentation in the Electronic Heath Records, gathering information for the patient's visit, and partnering with the physician to deliver the pinnacle of efficient patient care.  • Prepared computerized physician order entry for review and discharge orders.    Skills  Conversational in Spanish • Proficient in Microsoft Word and PowerPoint • Intermediate proficiency in  Microsoft Excel