Jr. Python Developer Jr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Jr. Python Developer • Experience of using Python modules like NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib, Pandas etc., for generating complex graphical data, creation of histograms, etc.  • Used Beautifulsoup library for web scraping.  • Experienced in implementing Model View Control (MVC) architecture using server-side application like Django for developing web applications.  • Experienced with JSON, XML based RESTful web services.  • Experience of working with various IDEs like Eclipse, Sublime Text, PyCharm, and NetBeans.  • Exposure to NumPy, SciPy, Pandas for performance calculations  • Exposure to Matplotlib for complex data visualization.  • Experience with selenium web driver for automate web pages.  • Knowledge on HTML, JavaScript, CSS3 media queries for responsive web design and Bootstrap framework.  • Familiarity with containerizing applications using Docker.  • Experience of dealing with Ansible to manage all the existing servers and automate the build process/configuration of new servers.  • Worked on various Operating Systems like UNIX, Linux, Windows, and Mac OS.  • Experienced with version control systems like Git, GitHub, CVS, and SVN to keep the versions and configurations of the code organized.  • Used ticketing systems like Jira and other proprietary tools for bug tracking and issue tracking.  • Dealt with Unit Testing.  • Experienced in handling errors and debugging issues in large scale applications. Work Experience Jr. Python Developer Communiclique - Reston, VA March 2017 to March 2018 • Worked on object-oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, Django and Linux.  • Used Beautifulsoup for web scraping.  • Experience with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web Services (AWS)  Worked on Amazon services like Amazon Cloud EC2.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Worked in waterfall methodology  • Experience with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins.  • Experience with Unit testing using unittest library.  • Designed Interface using Bootstrap framework. Education Master's in information systems management in information systems management California University of Management and Sciences - Arlington, VA November 2017 Bachelor of Technology in Technology Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University - Hyderabad, Telangana March 2015 Skills AWS (1 year), Bootstrap (1 year), Django (1 year), JSON (1 year), Linux. (1 year) Additional Information Technical Skills  Programming Languages: Python  Technologies: HTML5, XHTML, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap, XML, JSON, Angular 2 (Basics)  Frameworks: Django, Flask (Knowledge)  Libraries: NumPy, SciPy, Pandas, Matplotlib, Selenium web driver.  Version Control: Git, GitHub  Databases: MySQL, PostgreSQL  IDE's/Development Tools: PyCharm, Eclipse, Sublime Text.  Web Services: AWS, RESTful Web Services    Operating Systems: UNIX, Linux, Windows, Mac OS  Deployment Tools: Docker    Methodologies: Waterfall  Testing: Unit testing