Intern at AMAZON (Java, Javascript, CSS, HTML) Intern at AMAZON (Java, Javascript, CSS, HTML) Graduate student with two years of work experience looking for full time in Software Ann Arbor, MI Work Experience Intern at AMAZON (Java, Javascript, CSS, HTML) AMAZON.COM, Inc May 2011 to July 2011 • Worked on the project "Product Personalization", which involves rendering the website based on the type of product. Involved in the design and implemented the code which already supports future phases of the project.  • Acted as TPM and took complete ownership of the project. Discussed the business requirements and documented the functional specifications. Also wrote the technical spec and maintained good documentation. Associate Developer (Perl, Oracle SQL) ATHENA HEALTH, Inc September 2009 to July 2010 • I was involved in the development of "cron architecture" that is used to handle interdependencies of tens of thousands of cron  jobs scheduled for all the critical processes and also monitor them. Improved the code to make it 10 times faster.  • I was involved in maintenance of another project that involves involves establishing linkages to send and receive data and monitor them which transfer millions of claims every day and thus acquired good experience in perl scripting. Developer ( Python, C++) GLOBAL ANALYTICS PRIVATE LTD August 2008 to September 2009 • Worked as a Developer to produce real time decision making software using Python and C++ which should deal with huge  volumes of transactions sent by client, perform a business model and respond within a very short time.  • I have revamped the existing codes of some modules by which the speed increased more than 50 times. Education M.S in Electrical and Computer Engineering University of Michigan - Ann Arbor, MI B.Tech in Electrical Engineering Indian Institute of Technology Madras - Chennai, Tamil Nadu Skills C, C++, Java, Python, Perl, Javascript, HTML, CSS, XML , Oracle SQL, MYSQL Additional Information Operating Systems (C++)  • Implemented a thread library to support multiple threads in C++ on Linux. Also wrote a disk scheduler, a multithreaded  program that mimics issue and service of disk requests in operating system.  • Implemented a multithreaded, secure network file server. This project helped me understand file systems, socket  programming, client server systems and security protocols.    Handwritten Character Recognition ( MATLAB, C++)  • The concept of convolutional neural networks is used in recognizing handwritten characters of 'Telugu' ( a south Indian  language). The neural network was implemented in C++.    Design of 16-bit RISC Processor ( Cadece icfb & 130nm IBM CMOS Technology )  • A complete 16-bit Processor with all the components integrated successfully which runs at a frequency of 333MHz and can  execute 21 instructions ( 2 stage pipeline) is implemented ( both schematic and layout).  • Custom layouts: Kogge-stone adder, Barrel shifter, 512B SRAM, Register File  • Program counter, Controller and other components are synthesized using Verilog and APR tools. All these components are  then successfully integrated.    Design and Analysis of low power Subthreshold 8T SRAM ( Cadece icfb & 130nm IBM CMOS Technology )  • Design and layout of 512BSRAM (each bit cell is 8T SRAM) which runs at 400mv with all the required precharge circuitry, sense  amplifiers and decoder. This was awarded 'Most innovative project'.