Full stack Developer (Graduate Assistant) Full stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> (Graduate Assistant) Full stack Developer (Graduate Assistant) - Auburn University RFID Lab Auburn, AL - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  Passionate software engineer with strong educational background in computer science, 3+ years of  professional experience in developing full stack applications, android applications, Restful APIs,  developer & deployment tools. Interested in working for solving key problems and maintain up-to-date  knowledge about cutting-edge development tools. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Full stack Developer (Graduate Assistant) Auburn University RFID Lab - Auburn, AL December 2015 to Present Created web, mobile and other software applications to integrate RFID robots and readers using  Python, Java, .NET, Django, HTML, CSS and JS. (used in Amazon, Walmart & PVH audits)  - Optimized the performance of RFID tags in terms of inventory/location accuracy. (with Zebra & View) Software Engineer II Global Analytics India Pvt. Ltd - Chennai, Tamil Nadu June 2013 to July 2015 Developed high performance and user friendly websites for LendingStream and Zebit using Python,  MySQL and Django framework with HTML/CSS/Bootstrap.  - Created customer evaluation engine based on predictive models for the under banked customers. Python Developer Intern Global Analytics India Pvt. Ltd - Chennai, Tamil Nadu January 2013 to March 2013 Developed release process tool which is used to communicate and update the release specific  documents across teams. Created python unit test framework for the all the interfaces and services.  FEW PROJECTS - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  LendingStream Line of Credit Product Global Analytics Pvt. Ltd.  - Created customer evaluation engine based on the dynamically computed credit score using Python  script and MySQL database. Integrated predictive models to compute the credit score based on user profile and other data provider variables. (such as Experian, TraceSmart & CallCredit)  RFID Inventory Controller Robot Auburn University RFID Lab.  - Created a Robot Controller and an interface which gives better location accuracy of RFID tags than  other overhead devices. Introduced localization algorithm for robot navigation using tag population.  Course Builder Android App Auburn University HCI Lab.  - Created an e-learning android app that provides a friendly interface where an instructor can create on online courses and a mechanism for the students to view and utilize the courses materials. Education Master of Science in Computer Science Auburn University - Auburn, AL August 2015 to May 2017 Bachelor of Engineering in Computer Science and Engineering Anna University - Chennai, Tamil Nadu September 2009 to May 2013 Skills Python (3 years), Java (2 years), PHP (2 years), MySQL (3 years), HTML (2 years), Javascript (2 years), JQuery (2 years), SVN (3 years), Git (1 year), Bugzilla (2 years), Apache (2 years), CSS (2 years), JIRA (1 year), Tomcat (2 years), C (1 year), C# (1 year) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/arivunambi https://github.com/arivunambi Additional Information SKILLS - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  Languages Python, Java, PHP, C / C++ / C# and Shell  Database MySQL, MongoDB and SQL Server  Web Technologies HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery  Frameworks Django, Flask and Bottle  Build & Monitoring Tools SVN, Git, JIRA, Bugzilla, Eclipse  Web Services Apache and Tomcat  Operating Systems Windows, Linux (CentOS, Ubuntu, Kali)