Teaching Assistant (Java, Python, C) Teaching Assistant (Java, <span class="hl">Python</span>, C) Teaching Assistant (Java, Python, C) - Binghamton University Binghamton, NY Work Experience Teaching Assistant (Java, Python, C) Binghamton University - Binghamton, NY August 2017 to Present Assist professor in preparation of course material, guide students and conduct lectures and labs.  * Courses: CS-535 Introduction to Data Mining, CS-533 Information Retrieval, CS-350 Operating Systems. Software Developer Intern (Java, API Platform, Mac-OS) Binghamton University - Cincinnati, OH May 2018 to July 2018 Designed and developed an algorithm for automating on-call doctor scheduling from scratch in Java for a startup providing medical answering service to health care practices to route a call to a doctor thus eliminating operator error.  * Designed the schema, DML/DDL scripts and a rule engine to generate the schedule based on a set of rules like doctor's availability, weekly patterns, distribution of weekend shifts and national holidays for the application deployed on AWS.  * Consumed REST API provided by API Platform to interact with the Postgres database. Generated the schedule in JSON format to be displayed on Full Calendar.  * Reduced manual efforts and the time is taken for schedule generation from hours to seconds. Software Developer Amdocs - IN August 2014 to December 2016 Involved in the development of telecom software CRM solution tailored to meet the needs of communications service providers and enable customer service representatives to provide consistent informed responses to customers across every channel.  * Modified and input new code of three main backend modules of Amdocs CRM - Background Action Processor (BAP - responsible for asynchronous calls to external systems), Service Level Management (SLM - served as an agreement between client & service provider) & Rule Manager (a module that enforces various business rules) using the agile model. Assisted in design reviews.  * Implemented scalable rule managers to process rules on single CRM database in Java thus reducing rule processing time by 70 % & improvise performance. Debugged & reused the core C++ functionalities through the JNI framework.  * Developed and modified the locale/time zone API's thus enabling the user to view the application in a different locale.  * Awarded for representing CRM Core team for application deployment on production environment at the customer site. Education Master of Science in Computer Science Binghamton University, State University of New York December 2018 Bachelor of Science in Information Technology University of Mumbai - Mumbai, Maharashtra May 2014 Skills C (2 years), J2EE (2 years), Java (3 years), Linux (2 years), Oracle (2 years) Links http://linkedin.com/in/chavanprathamesh http://github.com/ChavanPrathamesh Additional Information SOFTWARE SKILLS  Microsoft Certified Specialist: Programming in HTML5 with JavaScript and CSS3  Languages: Java, C, C++, Python, SQL/PL-SQL  Technologies: J2EE, REST, JUnit, Oracle, Postgres, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JSON, XML, MVC, AWS  Tools: Git, Bitbucket, Eclipse IDE, Quality Centre, Linux, MS Visual Studio, Perforce, ANT, Maven, Weblogic, Jenkins