Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer Rochester, NY I am seeking a challenging internship or co-op which will allow me to utilize and expand my skills in  programming, software design and development, and analytics. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Hartz Capital June 2017 to December 2017 Developed Python code to automate daily financial investment analysis for Investment and Real Estate  Management firm. Using data from financial market databases, designed and developed programs to perform analysis of alternative investment strategies, comparing different potential returns derived from  historical market conditions. Technology Services Intern Hyde Park School District June 2016 to August 2016 Performed inventory tracking and initial system configuration for large-scale deployment of chromebooks for school district. Reconfigured cable layout in computer labs. Software Engineering Intern IBM - Poughkeepsie, NY June 2015 to August 2015 Assisted with development and management of support applications for the IBM Supply Chain  Engineering team. Developed database system and GUI editor for manufacturing process routing for computer systems. Developed system to track end-of-life parts. Cashier, Crossroads RIT, Rochester September 2014 to December 2014 Cashier and limited food preparation at on-campus dining facility. Web Developer Hyde Park, NY June 2014 to August 2014 Managed social media, redesigned website, performed general IT support for local recreation business. Intern Shanghai Sunrise - Shanghai, CN November 2012 to June 2013 Streamlined online catalog interface of non-profit organization, performed website maintenance. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science Rochester Institute of Technology - Rochester, NY 2013 to 2018 Skills Django (Less than 1 year), Eclipse (3 years), Excel (3 years), HTML (Less than 1 year) Additional Information Skills  Programming and Descriptive Languages: Python, C, Java, Django, HTML, SQL, JSON  Tools: IntelliJ, Vim, Eclipse, PyCharm, Emacs, Google Sheets/Excel, UNIX Terminal, VS Code  Digital Media Editing: Adobe Suite, ScreenFlow, Audacity (audio)