Software Analyst Software Analyst Software Analyst - Verizon Data Services India PVT LTD • Around 4.5 years of experience in Software development with Strong Expertise in Python Development/Scripting and has Strong impetus for innovation and problem solving through powerful technical skills.  • Worked across different python projects and developed standalone Python scripts which automates the time consuming and repeated tasks.  • Strong Debugging and problem-solving skills and used PyCharm interpreter for scripting and debugging.  • Built Portable applications/Modules using Python which handles huge Production files & used Multithreading concepts, Core Python libraries/API's which triggers automatic Email/Text notification to user based on project needs.  • Coded and executed various Oracle database queries interacting from Python using cx_Oracle Libraries and worked with millions of database records on a daily basis, finding common errors and bad data patterns and fixing them.  • Proficient in Oracle/SQL databases, Cassandra and has good knowledge in SQL Packages/Queries etc.,  • Involved in entire lifecycle of the project and having good Knowledge on SDLC and STLC life cycles.  • Earlier Worked in C/C++ projects and has good knowledge in Object Oriented Programming concepts  • An effective team player with good communication and presentation skills for efficient job execution to achieve organization wide goals. Work Experience Software Analyst Verizon Data Services India PVT LTD September 2017 to Present 1.6 Years Software Analyst ( Python Developer) HCL Technologies Limited - Chennai, TAMIL NADU, IN September 2017 to Present Duration September 2017 - Present (1.6 Years)  Programming Language Used  PYTHON SCRIPTING, Oracle SQL Developer, Cassandra Database, C/C++, Shell Scripting, Perl Scripting  Environments: Unix and Amazon Web Services (AWS) cloud box    Testing Tools Automation Testing tools like Selenium IDE Web Browser Testing tool.    PROJECT TITLE: (VERIZON JITR / Just In Time Rating and Billing Manager)  Roles and Responsibilities:  ? Using Python, Designed and Implemented PRE-CIF Module which generates necessary header information of customer usage and updates Oracle database real-time.  ? Attended Daily SyncUP call to gathered Requirement and regularly communicated with Onsite to avoid Design gaps and reworks.  ? Supported team by giving Knowledge Transfer and feedback wherever needed.  ? Properly ran Unit test and Integration testing to ensure Quality of Code before delivering.  ? Coded and executed various Oracle database queries interacting from Python using cx_Oracle Libraries and worked with millions of production database records on a daily basis, finding common errors and bad data patterns and fixing them. Also Adhered to Coding Standards followed.  ? Built Automation Python scripts which automates and save lot of time-consuming repeated tasks.    ? Built Regression Suite for testing which compares Millions of records thus ensuring Bug free code delivered  ? Involved in entire lifecycle of the project and having good Knowledge on SDLC and STLC life cycles.  ? Worked in Error Correction and Vision Rejection Module which actively detects Errors in millions of Call Data Record (CDR) Billing and Correcting as per the project needs.  ? Worked in Performance enhancement Project (JAVA to Python Migration) and responsible for effectively handling huge customer data with optimal processing.  ? Responsible for ensuring billing of customers without any line stoppage in Production servers.    PROJECT PROFILE 2:  Company HCL Technologies Limited, Chennai  Client  Konica Minolta is one of the leading Manufacturers of Multifunction Printing and Imaging solutions provider in Japan.    Project Title & Description  Multi-Function Printer 5Th Generation Model:  Development of GUI LCD Panel for Multifunction Printer (MFP's) Model which integrates copy, scan, fax etc., in single machine. Software Engineer HCL Technologies Ltd August 2014 to September 2017 PROJECT PROFILE 1:  Company Verizon Data Services India PVT LTD  Client  Verizon is the #1 wireless provider in the U.S. and a global leader in next generation communications technology, including 5G and the Internet of Things.    Project Title & Description  Wireless Division - JITR / Just In Time Rating and Billing Manager  Realtime Customer usage Rating of Data/Message/Voice usage and create End of Cycle Bill Generation as per the bill plan with Error Handling Mechanisms. Software Engineer - Developer GUI Development August 2014 to September 2017 Programming Language Used PYTHON SCRIPTING for Automation Solutions and C/C++ for GUI Development  Testing Tools  Automation Testing tools like Selenium Web Browser Testing tool, Unit Testing and Component Integration testing tools.    DETAILED ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES:  ? Enhancement/Development Phase (As a Developer)  ? To Understand the requirement WBS (Work Breakdown Structure) and Functional Control Specifications documents.  ? To Create Rough Design from the inputs and construct Detail Design document after fulfilling entry criteria for the same.  ? Implement/Code using Python, C/C++ as per Detail Design document. Perform Peer Code Review and code merging activities.  ? Compile and create ROM's which can be flashed into actual MFP machines / Oracle Virtual Box simulators for testing.  ? Fixing the bugs identified using GDB debugger.  ? Regularly Co-ordinate with Onsite in case of Query/Clarification regarding product requirement.  ? Support, Collaborate and managed team of 30 members and provided knowledge sharing sessions.    ? Testing Phase (As a Tester)  ? Perform Test Design/Planning for the Enhancement done and Execute UT (Unit Testing) and CIT (Component Testing)  ? Perform System Integration testing to test the overall Quality of the product delivered  ? Create detailed Test Reports to map identified bugs.  ? Check-in Quality Approved Code into servers like AccuRev maintained by client. Education BACHELOR in Electronics & Communication Engineering Jerusalem College of Engineering - Chennai, TAMIL NADU, IN 2014 St. Sebastian Matric Higher Secondary School 2010 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Programming Languages Python, Oracle SQL, C, C++/OOPs, Shell Scripting, Perl Scripting, HTML  Development Tools used PyCharm - Python IDE Interpreter, Putty, AWS Box  Databases Oracle SQL Developer and Cassandra Database  Code Repositories GITHUB, JIRA, Tortoise SVN Repositories.  Testing Tools Automation Testing (Selenium), QTP, Manual testing tools  Other Tools Oracle Virtual Box, WinSCP, FTP FileZilla, Notepad++, Win Merge, Beyond Compare etc.,  OS / Applications UNIX, Windows 10, Microsoft Office 2013