Trained in JAVA and Working in the position of Python developer Trained in JAVA and Working in the position of <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">developer</span> Trained in JAVA and Working in the position of Python developer - Wipro Technologies To secure a distinct role as Software developer by utilizing my technical skills and experience for the mutual growth and benefit. Work Experience Trained in JAVA and Working in the position of Python developer Wipro Technologies March 2017 to Present Experience in Automation Selinium technology, Experience in feature testing and performance testing.    Projects:  • Project: CES V2 (in progress)  Role: Rest API Python developer  Description: It is a Email security domain project where we have to implement  API's for implementing the feature settings    Responsibilities: Developing a python code for feature settings in Email security  Appliance  Responsible for delivering application single handedly to the  Client  Proactively attending and providing progess updates about tasks in agile meeting  Technologies & Tools: Python, Rest API, shell scripting, Linux, Vsphere Client.    • Project: Cisco Secure Development Lifecycle(CSDL)  Role: Python code integration and testing.  Responsibilities: Understanding the feature and integrating code to new appliance.  Testing the feature by analyzing different scenarios.  Responsible to complete the tasks assigned in given time.  Assigning tasks to junior engineers.  Responsible for delivering product in Agile methodology to clients and make them satisfied.  Technologies & Tools: Python, Shell scripting, linux, Vsphere client.    • Project: High performance Web Security Application(HP-WSA)  Role: Automation testing, Performance testing.  Responsibilities: Analyse the feature and write test scenarios.  Execute the existing automation scripts and fix the errors in test suites by analyzing the logs.  Finding bugs by doing reliable testing.  Responsible for delivering things to the customers satisfaction.  Running performance tests based on the requirement.  Technologies & Tools: Shell scripting, Linux, Selinium framework.    • Project: New Generation Web security appliance(NGWSA)  Role: New UI backend Development, Automation testing.  Responsibilities: Implementing backend code for newly created features in new  User Interface using python.  Developing Rest API for the features implemented newly.  Writing automation scripts for different API'S implemented.  Testing the feature through automation scripts.  Doing code commits in Jenkins.requirement.  Running performance tests based on the requirement.  Technologies & Tools: Python scripting, Rest API, pyATS, Jenkins tool, Kick.    Interested areas:  • Interested to work on Web technologies as a front end developer.  • Interested to work on java and python backend development.    Significant Highlights:  • Got good performer award in Organizational training.  • Got Victory League award for good performance in the team. Java developer Andhra Pradesh July 2016 to March 2017 state skill development corporation July 2016- March 2017  Trained in C, Linux and shell scripting and worked in the postion of junior software trainee in JAVA and got experience as a Java developer. Education B.Tech in Electronics and communication Engineering Sree Vidyanikethan Engineering College - Tirupati, ANDHRA PRADESH, IN 2013 to 2016 Diploma in Electronics and communication Govt. Polytechnic for women 2010 to 2013 Additional Information Technical Skills:  • Programming: Core java, Python Scripting  • Web Technologies: HTML5, Java Script  • Database: Oracle SQL  • Operating System: Windows, Linux    Personal skills:  • Good understanding and analyzing capability.  • Ability to work hard and smart.  • Good team worker.  Declaration:  I hereby declare that above information furnished is true to best of my knowledge.  K. Chandupriya