Full stack developer intern Full stack <span class="hl">developer</span> intern Full stack developer intern - Trueclap, Inc Orlando, FL Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Full stack developer intern Trueclap, Inc - Palo Alto, CA February 2018 to Present • Currently, involved in development of end to end web application using Django framework.  • Technologies: Python 3.6, Django 2.0, Gitlab, Teamwork, AWS, MongoDB Atlas Python Developer Intern Medi-IOT January 2018 to February 2018 • Involved in creating and formatting Modbus / RTU requests using Python.  • Importing data from Modbus I/O device using DIA.  • Technologies: Python, Digi ESP, DIA (DIGI), XML Graduate Research Assistant University of Central Florida August 2016 to August 2016 - Dec 2018    • Thesis Track: Developing compiler for a specification language called 'EVIDENTLY' using Xtext.  • Technologies: Xtext, Java 8, Xtend, Xbase, Eclipse Modelling Framework Software Engineer L&T Infotech December 2013 to May 2016 • Involved in design, development, and testing of the CITI KYC web application portal.  • Actively involved in UI enhancements using ExtJs and GWT.  • Responsible for root cause analysis and resolving various production issues at L3 level.  • Proficient in Object Oriented programming, Data modeling and design of UML diagrams.  • Technologies: Java 7, J2EE, GWT 2.6.0, ExtJs 4.2, Apache Maven 3.3, Junit, Mockito, Spring 3.0, Hibernate 3.0, JSON Graduate Engineer Trainee L&T Infotech August 2013 to December 2013 • Developed a Web based application prototype of broker management system using Struts, Spring and Hibernate.  • Technologies: Java 7, J2EE, Struts 3.0, JSP, Junit, Spring 3.0, Hibernate 3.0, Json, JQuery, AJAX, PL/SQL, XML  PROJECTS    Title: CITI KYC  Description: This web application is currently being used by CITI bank across the globe to on-board customers and is responsible for maintaining the customers' portfolio. The application was designed to calculate the risk involved in onboarding the customers.    Title: Parallelization of CYK Algorithm.  Description: The performance of the traditional CYK algorithm is increased by 50% using various parallelization techniques  using JAVA multi-threading concepts.    Title: Sarcasm Detection on Twitter data.  Description: In our implementation, large twitter dataset containing sarcastic and non-sarcastic sentiments are preprocessed and is  used to train three popular classifiers, SVM, Logistic Regression and Random Forest and their respective performance metrics are  compared.    Title: Canny Edge detector as an Android Application using JAVA  Description: A Computer vision application which converts an image into Edge Histogram on a click using Java, based on the principles of Canny Edge detector.    Title: Action Recognition in videos  Description: Action recognition using Histogram of Oriented Gradients (HOG) descriptors on UCF sports action dataset. The  project consisted of implementing three steps; computing HOG on selected video frames, training a Support vector machine  (SVM) classifier and evaluating it using Leave one out (LOO) cross validation scheme. Education Master of Science in Computer Science University of Central Florida August 2016 to Present Bachelor of Engineering in Information Science Visvesvaraya Institute of Technology - Belgaum, Karnataka August 2013 Skills JAVA (2 years), J2EE (2 years), APACHE (2 years), DATABASE (2 years), ANGULARJS (Less than 1 year) Links https://github.com/manasakashyapharinath https://www.linkedin.com/in/manasa-kashyap-harinath/ Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    • Languages and Frameworks: C, C++, Java, J2EE, Python, JavaScript (JQuery, ReactJS, AngularJS, NodeJS), HTML, CSS,  XML  • Web services: REST, SOAP, AWS  • Language development frameworks: Spoofax, Xtext, JastAdd.  • Other Frameworks: Spring MVC, Hibernate, Struts.  • Database: MySQL, POSTGRESQL, RDBMS, MongDB, MongoDB Atlas.  • Development tools: Eclipse, SQL Developer 2.1.1, Pycharm, Android Studio.  • Application build Framework: Apache Maven 3.0.9, Gradle  • Others: Git, Sublime, Subversion, JSP, JMS, Agile, Django, Sklearn, TensorFlow, NLTK, PL/SQL, Microservice.