Business Intelligence/.NET Developer Business Intelligence/.NET <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Engineer Hanford, CA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Business Intelligence/.NET Developer Electronic Recyclers International - Fresno, CA April 2019 to Present I utilize Tableau, Tableau Online, Microsoft Azure Data Factory, SQL and SSIS to create and maintain data pipelines that help our executive staff make informed business decisions. In addition to my duties as a .NET developer, I was picked to take over duties of the BI Developer role as well. Every day I work directly with the executive staff to improve our business model. Application Developer Electronic Recyclers International - Fresno, CA November 2018 to Present As a Developer at ERI, my responsibilities include contributing to an extremely diverse code-base, participating in daily standup meetings, improving business practices through software, providing support to employees and more. Every day, the team leaders outline their ideas for optimizing our application which means each day is a different challenge as we try to make life easier for our users. This, along with a multitude forward thinking employees, makes for a very exciting work environment Filemaker Developer iSolutions - San Francisco, CA January 2018 to Present As a developer at iSolutions, I had a broad range of responsibilities. I ran client meetings, which include discovery. I spent hours developing optimized solutions for a wide range of clients on iOS and Desktop and I have personally optimized iSolutions internal billing and invoicing platform. Developer Intern iSolutions - San Francisco, CA September 2017 to January 2018 Developed custom software applications for small and large-scale companies during this 6 month internship. Developed in FileMaker Pro, used Filemaker API as a backend and NodeJS together. Integrated a multitude of APIs including Uber, Twilio, Coinbase and more. Cybersecurity / Python Instructor CodeForFun - Fremont, CA April 2017 to September 2017 Mentored and taught cybersecurity concepts to 30+ students ranging in age from 12 - 16. Wrote problem sets and python scripts to challenge students on a daily basis. Freelance Engineer Scality - Fremont, CA August 2017 to August 2017 Utilized Docker, AWS and NodeJS to successfully integrate IPFS cloud backend into the Zenko stack over the course of a 5-day Hackathon. PHP Developer 42 - Fremont, CA July 2017 to August 2017 Created a shopping chart system that saved items for purchase as cookies for customers. Website referenced a self-made database and allowed for admins to have special privileges. Created in less than two days. NodeJS Developer CatFacts - Fremont, CA June 2017 to August 2017 Co-created a web-app that communicates with the Twilio API to send text messages to anyone via text or email. Personally designed searching algorithm, data management, and frontend features. Project Manager / Engineer 42 - Stairway_To_42 May 2017 to August 2017 Project Manager to group of 4 developers in designing, developing and presenting a project. Created a web-app that changes the color of the lights using PIGPIO and Python. Created an API to allow others to build apps that could change the lights as well. Software Developer Intern Developed custom software apps for companies such as Apple and Delta. Used FileMaker backend and Node together. Integrated a multitude of APIs including Uber, Twilio, Coinbase and more. Education Computer Science 42 Silicon Valley - Fremont, CA October 2016 to December 2017 B.S. in Communicative Disorders & Deaf Studies University of Fresno May 2015 Graphic Design & Video Game Production Center for Advanced Research & Technology - Fresno, CA June 2010 Skills C (2 years), Javascript (2 years), Project Management (1 year), Software Development (2 years), Python (2 years), Database Management (1 year), Database Development (1 year), Filemaker Pro (2 years), JSON (1 year), Integration (1 year), APIs (2 years), Solidity (Less than 1 year), SQL (1 year), Git (2 years), Social Media Management (1 year), Teamwork (3 years), Team Leader (2 years), noSQL (1 year), Docker (1 year), AWS (1 year), NodeJS (2 years), Heroku (1 year), XML, SQL Server, HTML, C# (1 year), .NET (1 year), Visual Basic (1 year), Visual Studio (1 year), jQuery, ASP, CSS, .NET (1 year), C# (2 years), SQL (2 years), Visual Basic (2 years), Visual Studio (2 years), Entity Framework (2 years), LINQ (1 year), Tableau (1 year), Vue.js (Less than 1 year), SSMS (2 years), SSIS (Less than 1 year) Links http://github.com/jeftekhari Certifications/Licenses FileMaker 17 Developer May 2018 to Present Driver's License