Data Analyst Intern Data Analyst Intern Data Analyst Intern - Department of Strategic Planning & Treasury at Dime Community Bank Apt, AR Experienced professional in Data Science, Software Engineering & scalable infrastructure with more than 3 years of International experience (from India to Jersey City and then NYC) and a track record of being able to consistently achieve superior results. I am passionate about data analytics prototypes that create efficiency and satisfies customer's needs. Work Experience Data Analyst Intern Department of Strategic Planning & Treasury at Dime Community Bank March 2019 to Present Data Warehouse and Reporting Database Design: Build recommendations and implement the most efficient way to migrate 1600 tables with millions of records of real time data from Oracle Database to Microsoft SQL server using  SSIS/ Python Oracle Connect. Design Operational Data Store and denormalized tables ideal for reporting purposes from the normalized Central Data Warehouse. Utilized strong knowledge of "Entity-Relationship" concept, Facts and  dimensions tables, slowly changing dimensions and "Dimensional Modelling (Star Schema and Snow Flake Schema)"  ? Data Manipulation and Retrieval to create insight-rich reports: Pull relevant data from the Data Warehouse and create  user-defined metrics in DI Studio jobs (using SQL Transformations) to incorporate into daily/weekly reports. Analyze data  extracts in SAS Visual Analytics to identify key patterns and trends. (Tools used - SAS DI Studio and Visual Analytics, Python, SQL Developer Fiserv DNA Publisher January 2019 to March 2019 Develop the data-analytics pipeline for the company using python and help designing their databases using complex SQL  queries on datasets.  ? Building infrastructure for real-time data updating  ? Create pipeline for data-processing and normalization  ? Use deep-learning to classify building architecture based on an image.Use NLP techniques to identify distinct persons and companies in a noisy dataset. Graduate Research Assistant Saint Peter's University September 2018 to March 2019 Worked as a Graduate Research Assistant of Data Science under Dr. Joseph Gilkey (Program Director of Data Science) to research and work on Text Analysis on yelp reviews by implementing NLP techniques on one of the industrial project. Main  aim is to integrate the topic modelling with sentimental analysis using Machine Learning Algorithms.  ? Helped Cyber Security Center team ingest data into Splunk tool to monitor, analyze, and report on information in order to make better decision. Full-Stack Developer Synnov Software LLP - Bengaluru, Karnataka January 2016 to June 2017 Worked as a full stack web developer taking care of content management system, SCSS, Magento, Continuous Deployment  and Integration over Git/SVN and AWS. Mentored team of 4 on frontend, backend, and overall Product Software  Development Life Cycle aspects.  ? Built data science platform processing 100GB worth of raw data on Hadoop to analyze sales pattern with MapR process.  ? Implemented ML / NLP algorithms to train set of information to predict sales and popular items on e Commerce platform. Full-Stack Developer Silicon Technologies Pvt Ltd - Ahmedabad, Gujarat May 2015 to January 2016 Continued as a full stack web developer and worked on the end-to-end software development life cycle leveraging  following technologies: C++ (Desktop Apps), Git, Bash, R language, PHP, Ajax, jQuery, MySQL JavaScript, CSS, Bootstrap. Web Developer | Analytics Engineer A.Live Mind Pvt Ltd - IN June 2014 to March 2015 Worked as a Web Developer and Analytics engineer to keep track of end-users and their activity on website; to further  increase user retention. I also developed real time web application in PHP language with frontend dashboard displaying  multiple statistics. Education Masters in Data Science in Data Science Saint Peter's University - Jersey City, NJ May 2019 Bachelor of Engineering in Computer Science in Computer Science Vadodara Institute of Engineering - Vadodara, Gujarat May 2014 Skills Ajax (Less than 1 year), algorithm (Less than 1 year), Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Less than 1 year), Ambitious (Less than 1 year), Android (Less than 1 year), API (Less than 1 year), Artificial Intelligence (Less than 1 year), AWS. (1 year), Bootstrap. (Less than 1 year), C+ (Less than 1 year), Clustering (Less than 1 year), CSS (Less than 1 year), Data Analytics (Less than 1 year), Data Mining (Less than 1 year), Data Visualization (Less than 1 year), jQuery (Less than 1 year), MySQL (Less than 1 year), Natural Language Processing (2 years), NLP (2 years), PHP (1 year) Links http://Linkedin.com/in/coderanika Additional Information T ECHNICAL S KILLS ?  ? Programming Languages: JavasScript (node), Python, PHP, C, C++, Java  ? Querying Languages: SQL (PostgreSQL, MySQL, Oracle, SQLite). No-SQL such as MongoDB  ? Statistical Programming languages: R, Python (Numpy, Pandas, Matplotlib, Tensorflow, NLTK, sklearn), SAS  ? Data Visualization Tool: Tableau, Splunk, Py Visualisation Libraries (Plotly, matplotlib, seaborn), C3.js, Highcharts  ? Frontend Technologies: CSS, Bootstrap, HTML, AJAX/JQuery, React, SVG/Canvas, Material Design  ? Design Framework: Mockups/Wireframe (MockFlow/moqups/draw.io), InVision  ? DevOps and Collaboration: Jenkins, BitBucket/GitHub, JIRA, Trello, MediaWiki/Confluence, Docker, Slack Webhooks  ? Cloud: AWS EC2/S3/Route53/RedShift, RESTFul API services, Gitlab, SSH  ? IDE and Tools: VS Code, Jupyter, Eclipse, PyCharm, vim/nano  ? Data Analytics/Data Mining: Predictive Modeling (Regression, Classification), Machine Learning (Supervised- Support  Vector Machines, Unsupervised-Clustering), Text Mining, Sentiment Analysis/Natural Language Processing (tensorflow,  NLTK, spacy, sklearn), Topic Modeling/NLP (LDA algorithm/LSI Algorithm), Neural Networks    S OFT S KILLS ?    ? Ambitious and assertive problem solver  ? Continues learning and improvement  ? Clear Communication to the leadership and stakeholders  ? Meticulous thinker, driven by feedback and greater organizational goals  ? Socially collaborative and persuasive  ? Witty sense of humor with empathetic nature and lifelong listener    A CCOMPLISHMENT AND I NTEREST ?  ? Given Presentation in Consumer Analytic Conference conducted on April 15 th 2019 how consumer data can be used by  restaurant business to define their marketing strategies in Saint Peter's University  ? Worked as a programming tutor for undergraduate student of computer science department of Saint Peter's university  helping student to understand core programming concepts, also took couple of lectures on array and object oriented  concepts under the supervision of Prof.Mitchell. Also helping students with the Artificial Intelligence project.  ? Given seminar on basics of Artificial Intelligence to the high school student in Saint Peter's University.  ? Workshop attended/contributed to: Ethical Hacking Workshop, Android Workshop, One Day State Level Seminar on  'Current Trends in BIG DATA'.  ? Shortlisted for finalist list of techNgage hackathon (NASSCOM, Kolkata, India)  ? Active member of Django-Thon / PyCon meetups conducted by Python open source community.