Job Seeker Cupertino, CA • Strong foundation in software engineering and programming principles across multiple platforms.  • Experienced in object-oriented programming; developing, testing, and debugging code; designing  interfaces; administering systems and networks; and can work in either team and self-directed settings. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Research Project - Irvine, CA September 2016 to December 2016 Researched, designed and implemented an application that automatically scheduled a student's classes  based on the academic year calendar.  • Gathered data related to courses from the UCI course catalog and saved them to a MySQL database.  • Used Gurobi, a state-of-the-art optimization solver, and Python to implement the model. Research Project - Irvine, CA January 2016 to September 2016 University of California, Irvine - Irvine  • Developed a program for a Sudoku shell to be used by students in the professor's Introduction to Artificial  Intelligence class.  • Implemented designs, including experimentation and multiple iterations.  • Wrote a basic AI agent that solved a Sudoku puzzle using a greedy and exhaustive approach to serve as a  basis for students to improve time and space complexity using techniques learned from the class.  • Prepared detailed reports concerning project specifications and activities. Python Developer Intern Algotochip - Sunnyvale, CA June 2013 to September 2013 Designed Python-based graphical user interface that visually displayed the steps in C-code being  converted to a digital chip implementation and stress-tested code to validate code changes.  • Modified legacy in-house software to correct errors, adapt to new hardware, and improve performance.  • Collaborated with product management to design, build and test systems. Education Master's in Computer Science UCLA - Los Angeles, CA September 2017 to December 2018 Bachelor of Science in Computer Science University of California - Irvine, CA 2016 Skills Python, Data Analysis Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/cyrus-tabatabai-902407a3