Android Developer Android <span class="hl">Developer</span> CompSci Student with a Knack for Machine Learning Brooklyn, NY github.com/sallylungs Work Experience Android Developer Buffalo, NY January 2019 to May 2019 ? Designed and developed UBLost, a university-wide indoor navigation app for Android devices  ? Implemented ARCore augmented reality aided navigation within University at Buffalo  ? Managed using GitHub Version Control System and met specifications using JUnit testing Python Data Programmer Buffalo, NY January 2017 to May 2019 ? Implemented Linear Regression on diabetes dataset and Linear Classification (using Perceptron, Logistic Regression, and Support Vector Machine hypothesis functions) on assigned classification sample dataset  ? Implemented Multilayer Perceptron neural network to classify handwritten digits  ? Fine-tuned parameters in existing deep neural network for analyzing hand-drawn image dataset to optimize accuracy and runtime  ? Coded program to process images (with functions such as resizing, cropping, mirroring)  ? Wrote program to estimate pi using Monte Carlo simulation Machine Learning Researcher/Programmer Curbell Medical - Buffalo, NY September 2018 to December 2018 Designed and developed convolutional neural network for human activity classification based on accelerometer time series data with 97% accuracy  ? Collaborated with software development, hardware development, and business team to create  product idea for wearable fall detection device for hospital patients Java Developer Buffalo, NY January 2018 to September 2018 ? Designed and developed game of Connect 4  ? Collaborated with team and developed game of Codenames  ? Managed using GitHub Version Control System and met specifications using JUnit testing iOS Developer New York, NY June 2018 to June 2018 ? Designed and developed game of Pong Data Analyst Intern "I Have a Dream" Foundation - New York, NY May 2017 to August 2017 ? Wrote Python programs to evaluate and compare the effectiveness of I Have a Dream  Foundation's various services for low income students nationwide  ? Informed high level benchmarking and budgeting decisions concerning services provided Statistics Research Project Leader Boston, MA January 2017 to May 2017 ? Led and performed a conclusive university wide study with 123 participants on the effects of social media usage in college students for statistics class at Boston University Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science University at Buffalo - Buffalo, NY Present Skills Java, Android, GIT, Python, Tensorflow, OCaml, Swift, Terminal, NumPy, ARCore