Software Engineer ( Python, Django, DRF, Swift, iOS) Software Engineer (<span class="hl">Python</span>, Django, DRF, Swift, iOS) Software Developer Miami, FL Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Engineer ( Python, Django, DRF, Swift, iOS) Jazwares - City of Sunrise, FL December 2016 to Present - Present ideas to improve jazwings.com  - Analyze, design, test, debug, maintain and document codes  - Produces detailed specifications and write the program codes using Python, Django, DRF, Vagrant and Git  - Integrates data from various back-end services and databases using Python, PostgreSQL and AWS.   - Developing a new Jazwings iOS application using Swift and xCode. Software Engineer Linbis - Miami, FL September 2016 to December 2016 - Working in Salesforce solution for catering company  - Working with ASP .Net and devexpress for report module Back-end developer OpenJAF - Havana, IL December 2015 to August 2016 Responsibilities included:  ? Developed and updated several modules for a travel agency platform such as export all sales and invoicing  information into QuickBooks, online shop for sales products, b2b portal, and core modules for handling Odoo  back-end  ? Upgraded the platform from OpenERP 7.0 to Odoo 8.0  ? Created a specific Odoo solution for a car agency  ? Worked with robotframework for testing Back-end developer TOWPeb - Madrid, Madrid provincia March 2013 to November 2015 Responsibilities included:  ? Developed www.hutton.es, payment module, back-end application and used LaCaixa and Braintree as payment  gateways  ? Developed www.buenviajeacuba.com, back-end application, newsletter module that integrated with the website  as well as the module to feed from RSS  ? Developed www.frifarma.com.do, back-end application and administrative site  ? Developed www.illaso.com, back-end application and administration site  ? Developed the front-end and back-end of Cuba Contemporanea Magazine Organize Application which is a  module that contains all company information Software Developer TOWPeb - Havana, IL September 2013 to July 2015 Responsibilities included:  ? Created a compiler for TIGER language  ? Developed a distributed application to managed the login of external applications  ? Created an analysis tool for clustering algorithms  ? Implemented several classification algorithms  ? Developed a multiplatform desktop search tool for local networks Education Bachelor's in Computer Science University of Havana - Havana, IL September 2009 to July 2015 Skills Python (4 years), Django (4 years), Odoo (1 year), Javascript (2 years), C# (5 years), .NET (5 years), Git (2 years), Swift (Less than 1 year), IOS (Less than 1 year) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/rolandocruzgabilondo Additional Information ? Fully-bilingual individual - English and Spanish  ? Excellent attendance and reliability  ? Extremely responsible, energetic, and hard worker