Data Engineer Consultant Data Engineer Consultant Software Engineer - Data New York, NY Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Data Engineer Consultant Cigna - New York, NY July 2018 to Present • Developed ETL programs in OOP Python and SQL to perform a variety of tasks related to maintaining existing data infrastructure - including Audit-Balance-Controls, and Data Validations.   • Heavy reliance on Git workflow (GitLabs) for maintaining and maintaining and enhancing existing codebase.   • Developed Database APIs for generating web pages with Flask Python Data Analyst Precision Global Consulting - New York, NY March 2018 to Present -Wrangle / Clean / Analyze data using Python with emphasis on Pandas library    -Scrape media websites and provide insights using BeautifulSoup / requests libraries    -Design MongoDB Schema    -Automate Data Entry / Analysis / Presentation using Python / Google Docs    - Build Dashboards for clients using Tableau Software Engineer Consultant AT&T - Middletown, NJ September 2017 to March 2018 * Built Apache Spark Applications using Python 3 (OOP Python / PySpark) and Scala (Kafka) in Windows / Linux environments.  * Designed a variety of developer tools in Python 3 for automating tasks  * Managed offshore resources to ensure high quality in code by debugging and helping write programs in Python. Developer Northwestern Mutual June 2016 to April 2017 * Saved team's time and provided insights by creating useful OOP Python programs; including server-side programming, automating file management, data visualizations, and data analysis in Linux environment.  * Successfully automated tasks for team members on IT support team by developing multiple Python scripts.  * Build and maintain SQL scripts, indexes, and complex queries for data analysis and extraction. GIS / Hydrologist Intern US Geological Survey 2012 to 2014 * Created models in Excel/Pandas to predict chances of flooding by analyzing data and working with statisticians.  * Utilized in-depth self-study to learn basic and intermediate R, and improved overall Excel data analysis abilities.  * Worked with team of Users and Stakeholders to quantify rivers statuses, including velocity, flow, and dimensions. Education Bachelor of Science in Mathematics University of Minnesota - Minneapolis-Saint Paul, MN 2016 Skills C+ (Less than 1 year), Data Analytics (2 years), Excel (3 years), Python (3 years), SQL (1 year) Certifications/Licenses Driver's License