Data Analyst- Python /Tableau Developer Data Analyst- <span class="hl">Python</span> /Tableau <span class="hl">Developer</span> Data Analyst- Python /Tableau Developer - Tetrus Corp Illinois • Data Scientist with 4+ years of experience in utilizing data science and analytical skills to uncover valuable insights for business development.  • Experienced in working with various Python IDE's using Pycharm, PyScripter, Spyder, PyStudio and PyDev.  • Experienced in developing Web-based Applications using Python, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, Angular JS and jQuery.  • Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  • Good knowledge of Web Services with protocols SOAP, REST.  • Experienced in working with various Python Integrated Development Environments like Net Beans, PyCharm, PyScripter, Spyder, Jupyter, PyStudio.  • Having experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Extensive experience with Amazon Web Services (AWS)  • Experience in developing web services (WSDL, SOAP and REST) and consuming web services with python programming language.  • Skilled experience in Python with using new tools and technical developments (Libraries Used: libraries-Beautiful Soup, Jasy, NumPy, Scipy, MatPlotLib, Pickle, PySide, Pandas dataframe, networkX, urllib2, Pychart, Highcharts) to drive improvements throughout entire SDLC.  • Involved in Unit testing, Integration testing, User-Acceptance testing, and Functional testing.  • Experienced in web applications development using Django/ Python, Flask/ Python, and Node.js, Angular.js, jQuery while using HTML/CSS/JS for server-side rendered applications  • Experience in using various version control systems like CVS, Git, GitHub and Amazon EC2.  • Knowledge about setting up Python REST API Frame work using Django.  • Experienced in using pandas from Numpy stack in Python to analyze the data in .csv file to calculate the number of errors for disk monitoring.  • Experienced in interacting with business users to identify their needs, gathering requirements.  • Good knowledge of Visualization, Dimensional Modeling and Normalization approaches.  • Experience in Tableau functions and developing, designing, implementing statistical/predictive models.  • Experience in working on version control systems GIT and used Source code management client tools like GitBash, GitHub, Git GUI and other command line applications etc.  • Well versed with Agile with SCRUM, Waterfall Model and Test-driven development methodologies.  • Developed web applications and RESTful web services and APIs using Python Flask, Django. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Data Analyst- Python /Tableau Developer Tetrus Corp - Princeton, NJ February 2017 to Present • Used Django/flask Framework in developing web applications to implement the model view control architecture.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create user-friendly website interface.  • Developed statistical and predictive models to support business insights that led to fact- based decision making.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create user-friendly website interface.  • Implementation of REST web services.  • Getting data from various 3rd party vendors like Spotify, YouTube, iTunes.  • Getting json files from spotify API using python.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Created a Python/Django based web application using Python scripting for data processing, MySQL for the database, and HTML/CSS/jQuery and High Charts for data visualization of the served pages.  • Implemented AWS solutions using S3, RDS, EBS, Elastic Load Balancer, and Auto scaling groups.  • Worked on HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AngularJS, Node.JS, Git, REST API, Mongo DB. Data Analyst University of Illinois at Springfield - Springfield, IL January 2016 to December 2016 • Conducted data/regression analysis on real time data sets SAS and Python.  • Provided database and record keeping support  • Conducted Internet research on businesses to find ethnicity and gender of companies.  • Web Scraped Internet websites, using Import.io, Python, and R, to gather demographic and contact information of companies.  • Experienced in data cleansing and analysis of clients' expenditure data with Excel, using pivot tables, formulas (v-lookup and others), data validation, conditional formatting, and graph and chart manipulation.  • Participated in establishing and implementing programming, testing and documentation standards  • Ensured accurate and consistent statistical analysis by meticulously going through the data and validating results. Business Intelligence Analyst Talent Oris Techsol PVT LTD - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2014 to July 2015 India    • Worked with the Business to load data from S3 to Redshift and develop various dashboards using Tableau over AWS Redshift.  • Responsible for data quality, data transformation through filtering, grouping, aggregation, and statistical calculation.  • Consult with clients and internal stakeholders to gather requirements and plan milestones in the research, development, and implementation phases of the project lifecycle.  • Cleaning and Blending multiple data sources to allow for different views on application data in a single dashboard  • Participated in daily stand-ups with clients on daily design and development effort  • Performed extensive GAP analysis in the project as there were numerous 'As-Is' and 'To-Be' conditions.  • Building, publishing customized interactive reports and dashboards, report scheduling using Tableau server.  • Provided 24/7-production support for Tableau users. Junior Data Analyst Umbilikal August 2013 to June 2014 • Worked on Interpret data, analyze results using statistical techniques and provide ongoing reports.  • Analyzed User Requirement Document, Business Requirement Document (BRD), Technical Requirement Specification and Functional Requirement Specification (FRS).  • Conducted GAP Analysis, SWOT Analysis, Cost Benefit Analysis, Risk Analysis and Impact Analysis.  • Collaborated with the stake holders for issue tracking and discussions on the requirements.  • Assisted to develop the Test Plan, Test Cases and Test Scenarios to be used in testing based on Business Requirements, technical specifications and/or product knowledge. Education Masters in Management Information Systems in Management Information Systems University of Illinois - Springfield, IL December 2016 Skills Business Intelligence (1 year), Excel (Less than 1 year), Python (1 year), SAS (Less than 1 year), Serial Attached SCSI (Less than 1 year) Additional Information SKILLS AND TECHNOLOGIES  Programming: Python, R, SAS, SQL, XML, HTML, JavaScript  Software: Tableau, Rstudio, SAS enterprise miner, MS Excel, Spark, Visio, MS Access, SAP, CRM, Business Objects Informatica, QlikView.  Competencies: Data Analytics, Data Science, Machine Learning, Business Intelligence, Business Analysis, Data mining, Data Warehousing, ETL, Statistical analysis, Predictive Analytics,  Operating Systems: Windows, Linux  Tools: R Studio, Tableau, Microsoft Office, Machine learning algorithms (Regression techniques)