Bookseller Bookseller Springdale, MD Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Bookseller Barnes and Noble Morgan State University, - Baltimore, MD February 2017 to August 2018 ·        Performed tasks as cashier: Taking payments, answering inquiries and text book ordering.  ·        Performed tasks as stock clerk ensure merchandise was properly displayed and available. Python Back-End Web Developer Intern PCI STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT - Columbia, MD June 2017 to August 2017 ·        Created a GUI Resume Parser Application using the Python Programming Language with the Open source Python framework Kivy.   ·        Created a GUI Five-person Team Builder Application using the Python Programming Language with the Open source Python framework Kivy. Student Facilitator Morgan State University Operating Staff - Baltimore, MD June 2016 to August 2017 ·        Provided an overlook of the university student center.  ·        Set up/ Broke down events held at the school.  ·        Facilitate and coordinate tasks. IT/ Project Management Intern Brailsford & Dunlavey, Inc., - Washington, DC June 2016 to August 2016 • Assisted project team members with the completion of planning, pre-development and/or implementation assignments.  • Performed data collection and analysis to include focus group leading and reporting, in-person and telephone interviews, survey design and analysis, site analysis, space planning, financial modeling, and print and internet research.  • Maintained project-related documents including drawings, project binders, client correspondences, meeting minutes, action items, invoices, and similar items.  • Assisted with project-related financial issues including budget monitoring, revenue and expense tracking, reconciliation, and reimbursement processing.  • Researched, analyzed and presented project-related data to project managers and executives so that they may make informed decisions on methodologies, strategies, or required tasks. Customer Service Representative Flynn & Ohara - Lanham, MD August 2012 to July 2014 Responsibilities  Provided Strong helpful Services to customers   Restocked Uniforms     Skills Used  Excelled in enhancing a Customer's well being while in store  Able to provide a clear and lengthy discussion with customers  Displayed Leadership Qualities in the workplace   excellent sales and negotiation skills  good communication and 'people skills'  confidence and motivation  determination and the drive to work towards targets  the ability to work well on your own and also as part of a team  good organisational and time management skills  Used listening skills to understand buyers’ needs and emotions  Used Proficient Research to help customers learn more about products Education Currently Pursuing in Information Science/Systems Morgan State University - Baltimore, MD 2014 to 2018 Skills Sales And Marketing (4 years), Project Management (1 year), Powershell (1 year)