GIS Analyst/GIS Web developer GIS Analyst/GIS Web <span class="hl">developer</span> GIS Analyst/GIS Web developer - Amerilink International Corp North Brunswick, NJ • Proficient in developing GIS Web Applications using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, AngularJS, PHP and Google/ArcGIS APIs.  • Over seven years' hands-on experience using GIS & Remote Sensing software, including ArcGIS Desktop, QGIS, ENVI, TerrSet.  • Proficient experience in data manipulation, geodatabase management, spatial analysis, and programming. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience GIS Analyst/GIS Web developer Amerilink International Corp - North Brunswick, NJ July 2016 to Present · Using M.E.A.N stack technology to upgrade our online booking website, and working with Restful APIs to query required data from back-end.  · Incorporate MVC software design pattern to build a global Hotel Search and Online Booking system, capable of multi languages for our clients all around the world.  · Lead a group of three to create a WAP version of the online booking system that have the basic functionalities compared to the Website version.  · Develop customized web applications using PHP, Angular, HTML5, CSS JSON, AJAX, Bootstrap for several projects that are capable for multi-devices and multi-browsers.  · Work with UI teams to develop front end web page capable for multi-browsers and promotion activities for the online system using Angular Framework..  · Assist in updating the back office system for sales and customer services to better serve their clients.   · Design, coordinate and prepare representations of Geographic Information Systems (GIS) databases.   · Use mySQL code to query data from our database that contains over 600000+ hotel infos, and create Ajax APIs to accomplish the communication between front-end and back-end.  · Enhances and promotes the utilization of GIS through technical support and training of end users.  · Analyzes GIS data and data processing procedures to ensure that user s' needs are addressed. Produce high quality cartographic products for reports, meetings and presentations.  · Assist in management of data, maps, graphics and other spatial materials as a member of a project team. Research Assistant / GIS Analyst Clark Labs - Worcester, MA October 2014 to May 2016 • Produced baseline mapping of coastal habitats and aquaculture for coast of Vietnam, Cambodia and Thailand.  • Performed change analysis using Land Change Modeler and process statistical analysis based on the output.  • Wrote python scripts to calculate the land use transition potentials using Multi Criteria Evaluation and create JSON files to store data to ArcGIS Server.  • Published web services and display maps using ArcGIS Online for better communication and visualization, and then tested web application. Teaching Assistant for Python Programming Clark University - Worcester, MA September 2015 to March 2016 • Tutored students in graduate level course for python programming  • Assisted professor design lab assignments, demonstrated and evaluated assignments.  • Provided supports with their final projects in creating Graphic User Interface (GUI) tool in ArcMap. Education Master of Science in GIS for Development and Environment Clark University May 2016 Bachelor of Science in GIS Shandong Agriculture University May 2014 Skills GIS (3 years), BOOTSTRAP (3 years), CSS (3 years), DATABASE (2 years), jQuery (3 years) Links http://zhuoyuezhou.weebly.com/portfolio.html http://www.linkedin.com/in/zhuoyuezhou Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  GIS: ArcGIS Desktop, QGIS, ArcGIS Online,  GeoServer, GeoDA, ArcSDE  Statistics: SPSS, R/R studio, Excel  Database: mySQL, Access    Programming: PHP, AngularJS, JavaScript, HTML,  CSS, Python, JQuery, Bootstrap, C  Remote Sensing: TerrSet, ERDAS, ENVI  Map/Imagery: autoCAD, CartoDB, Photoshop