Python/Django Developer <span class="hl">Python</span>/Django <span class="hl">Developer</span> Dallas, TX Actively seeking web development position. Legally authorized to work in the US. Work Experience Python/Django Developer UT Southwestern Medical Center - Dallas, TX August 2014 to Present Responsibilities  Applied Python/Django framework, together with HTML/Javascript/Bootstrap.css/MySQL skills to develop a web based information management system which has the capability to submit and retrieve essential data through dynamically generated forms, in order to help the clinic staff to do their regular scheduling and management work.  Worked in a fast paced environment. Solved several tasks in a week or even in one day.   Worked cooperatively with a team. Communicated frequently with other team members and users to modify and optimize the system.    Skills Used  Development platforms contained: Sublime Text, pyCharm, GIT, Linux(Ubuntu). Full-Time SEO/SEM Specialist GroupM China - ??? October 2010 to June 2012 • The SEO/SEM work is to help client’s official website to get a high ranking in search engines like Google and Bing, using techniques of website optimization or paid per click Ads.  • During 2 years of working experience in GroupM search team, I managed over 10 clients, convinced the clients of the importance and potential benefits of the search engine industry, efficiently established large quantity of accounts and made strategies and optimization suggestions, successfully raised clients’ website traffic by an average of 30%, consequently gained a 50% increase of investment from the clients after one year of great work.  • Meanwhile, I trained the whole team with the introduction of using of essential tools. I also trained every new team member to become a qualified team player.   • Most of my clients are multinational companies and world famous brands in various industries such as Microsoft, Mercedes-Benz, Starwood Hotels, P&G, BP. Full-Time Hardware Test Engineer Foxconn Technology - Wuhan, China April 2010 to August 2010 Responsibilities  Examine the hardware compatibility, assemble the newest hardware components and identify issues of the configurations, etc. Education Master of Science in Computer Science THE UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS AT DALLAS - Richardson, TX 2012 to 2014 BS in Computer Science Wuhan institute of Technology - Wuhan, China 2006 to 2010 Skills Python(Django), JAVA, Javascript, HTML5, C/C++, Oracle SQL, Google Adwords, Google Analytics, Marin, SEM, SEO, Digital Advertising, MS Office. Additional Information RELEVANT COURSES  Database Design Computer Algorithm Software Project Planning and Management  Advanced Computer Networks Advanced Operating Systems Advanced Programming Languages    Languages: Java, C/C++, Python  Database: Oracle, MySQL  Markup/Scripting Languages: HTML5, CSS, JavaScript  Functional Programming: Ocaml  Development Tools: Eclipse, Visual Studio, CodeBlocks, Xftp, Xshell  MS Office Tools: Excel, PowerPoint, Word    Medical center database system in Python  • Using Django framework to develop a web based hospital database management system which is able to store and access information of various aspects of a hospital in different web pages.    Operating System project in Java   • Using Java socket programming under UNIX environment(Xshell) to implement the Ricart-Agrawala algorithm for distributed mutual exclusion with the Roucairol-Carvalho optimization. The program used sockets to manipulate processes’ activities in OS and is able to observe the activities by the sufficient data acquired through running.    Database of ABC city library simulation   • Created a Library management System using Oracle SQL. The system is able to store the entire information of libraries, cities, readers and reading materials. Meanwhile, it has the ability of data inquiry, insertion, deletion and update.    Student Information Management System  Created a Student Information Management System using Visual C++. The project reflected a flexible use of C++ knowledge such as encapsulation of C++ functions, file input/output function, definition of different data types, etc.