Data Engineer Data Engineer Data Engineer - New Knowledge Work Experience Data Engineer New Knowledge March 2018 to Present Redesigned ETL pipeline to dramatically increase data loading speed by 20x  ? Developed scrapers in Python for various social media sites (e.g. Reddit, Facebook, Twitter)  ? Used Spark and Snowflake to calculate various analytics and served them in Postgres for our Metrics Dashboard  ? Interfaced with Data Scientists to productionize NLP and Computer Vision applications  ? Gained experience in creating microservices that communicated via Kafka and deploying through Kubernetes Python Consultant for Q2ebanking November 2017 to March 2018 Created custom web forms for Financial Institutions using Javascript, HTML, and CSS  ? Interfaced with Q2's Core API using Q2's custom Python framework and MSSQL  ? Gained experience working with payment systems for Financial Institutions Data Engineer Square Root, Inc June 2016 to November 2017 Helped design and maintain ETL Pipeline that feeds into Square Root's SaaS application  ? Used Kafka, Python, and SQL to create an automatic end-to-end process to feed stakeholder data into our  application  ? Created and maintained ETL servers and PostgreSQL DB's using Python, Chef, AWS, and Jenkins  ? Gained experience in working with offshore team and coordinating business efforts  ? Learn how to use libraries and tools for cleaning/displaying data in Python such as pandas, matplotlib, and IPython notebooks Lead Developer Wildcat Software August 2014 to May 2016 o Created iOS application for GiftClarity that helps nonprofits find potential donors  o Served on board for Wildcat Software for software architecture decisions  o Trained Junior Developers in software engineering principles and contributing to a team. Big Data Intern AT&T Big Data June 2015 to August 2015 o Created web app that gathers metadata from files in HDFS and visualizes connections  o Interfaced MongoDB, Flask, and Spark together to gather data and create a REST API  o Completed and received certificate for Data Science training from Hortonworks  o Learned directly how a business starts from a design to a deliverable product Big Data Intern AT&T Big Data June 2014 to August 2014 o Created web app using Ruby and MongoDB to show hierarchy of employees at AT&T Big Data  o Exposure to Hadoop and the tools used to access big data such as Hive and Pig  o Learned how to use version to control for collaboration on projects Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science Abilene Christian University - Abilene, TX January 2013 to May 2016 Links https://github.com/jtkilleen Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Programming Languages: Proficient in Python  Knows Ruby, C++, Javascript  Exposure to Java, Haskell, Prolog, Lisp, Standard ML, C#    Web Development: Knows Flask, Sinatra  Exposure to React.js, Node.js, Ruby on Rails, Django, .NET  Data Engineering: Proficient in SQL (Postgres)  Knows Snowflake, pandas, Numpy, Scipy, Kafka  Exposure to Spark, MongoDB, Hive, Pig, Hadoop    Mobile Development: Exposure to Objective-C and Swift for iOS and Java for Android    Various Libraries and  Software: Knows Git, Kubernetes, Docker, Chef, Bash, Jenkins, Kafka, AWS, Azure  Exposure to Conda, Jupyter, Tensorflow, Keras, OpenGL