Multimedia and Networking QA Engineer - Automation ( Python) Multimedia and Networking QA Engineer - Automation (<span class="hl">Python</span>) Multimedia and Networking QA Engineer - Automation ( Python) San Jose, CA • Software Automation Engineer specializing in Python.  • Thorough understanding of the C, Python, LINUX, Operating Systems(Inter-process Commuication, Multi-threading, Sockets) & Computer Networks.  • Worked in the QA Life cycle, which includes Design, Development, and Implementation of the entire QA process and documentation of Test Plans, Test Cases, Test Procedures and Test Script for Manual & Bug tracking tools. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Multimedia and Networking QA Engineer - Automation ( Python) Citrix Systems Inc - Santa Clara, CA February 2013 to March 2015 Job Responsibilities  • Continuously and proactively automate existing test cases using Python based ROBOT framework.  • Diagnose failures by working with developers on isolating defects.  • Set up and maintain test environments including Linux servers, Byte Mobile software, networks, and test tools on vSphere ESXi server.  • Develop Automation Scripts and programming libraries that interface with various devices and deal with repetitive tasks such as configuration and extraction of CLI outputs using Python.  • Development and execution of functional and system test suites to ensure product quality and conformance to specifications using both automated and manual testing processes. Design and develop code in Python to validate new product functionality.  • Responsible for automating the regression suite for Multimedia Optimization (Core feature of Citrix Bytemobile) using Python as a scripting language.  • Develop automated scripts to run on real chassis as well as VMware ESXI Server. QA Intern Webroot Inc - San Mateo, CA March 2012 to February 2013 Job Responsibilities  • Responsible for contributing to improvement of software development processes as well as ensuring that the software quality team follows the predefined process.  • Define test plans and test specifications for functional, integration and performance testing, as well as the manual execution of test cases, and reporting product failures.  • Load test web services as well as online applications.  • Create and execute complex database queries to validate database performance and data integrity.  • Escalation and resolution of issues with different teams during the UAT phase, getting the re-work done in a timely manner and re-testing the same.  • Prepared and executed scenarios for the Regression testing on new build.  • Prepared test data for positive and negative test scenarios for functional testing as documented in the test plan. Software Developer ARICENT Technologies Pvt Ltd September 2008 to December 2008 Project Title: XML Parser Environment: C, Data Structures & LINUX  Job responsibilities  • Worked collaboratively with all the teammates during various phases of software development.  • Created DOM module which analysed the DTD file by creating n-ary tree data structure containing all the elements with its attribute list.  • Developed various test cases for our project.  • Implementation of the various Operating System, Computer System, Data Structures and Computer Networks concepts. Education M.S. in Computer Engineering San Jose State University December 2012 B.TECH. in Information Technology National Institute of Technology - Bhopal, Madhya Pradesh June 2008 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  • Data Communication: TCP/IP Suite, Routing Protocols, HTTP, VLAN, DNS  • Scripting Languages: Shell, Perl, Python  • Programming Languages: C, C++, JAVA (Core), XML, HTML  • Tools: GDB, CVS, Valgrind, Splint, gcov, makefile, GCC, Wireshark, Putty, Ping, Traceroute, Test Track Pro, Confluence, SOAP UI, VMware ESXi, SSH, WinSCP, Perforce, Bugzilla  • Operating systems: Windows 98/2000/XP/7, LINUX, MAC OS X, RHEL