Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - DataCubes Schaumburg, IL Systems Engineering and Management graduate with a strong statistics background and experience in data analysis, data gathering, data visualization seeking a challenging opportunity. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer DataCubes - Schaumburg, IL January 2017 to Present - Designed and developed backend modules in python for parsing data from ACORD forms (Insurance application), validate data and load the data into a MySQL database and HBASE. PDF Miner, Beautiful soup, and Pandas were used.  - Developed algorithms to identify and extract tables from parsed text.  - Used supervised learning models for tagging and parsing different form versions.  - Worked with various web-based software development tools (GitHub, JIRA, Amazon Web Services)  - Knowledge in scrum-based, agile development life cycle Business Data Analyst Vcom Digital - San Antonio, TX September 2016 to January 2017 - Gathered data, wrangled data (imputed missing values by clustering, data mapping etc.) for analysis using Python.  - Created process maps and process documentation for business processes. Established processes for requirements  gathering and requirements documentation for projects.  - Created dashboards using Google Apps Script and Tableau. Created various templates in excel and VBA for daily use. Student Worker Parking and Transportation Department - Richardson, TX September 2015 to May 2016 - Automated the process of shift allocation of employees using Linear Programming. The model created in VBA considers various constraints and creates an optimized schedule. ( blog - with a detailed explanation).  - Drastically reduced completion time of monthly reports by building numerous spreadsheet applications and dashboards with Excel VBA via SQL querying. Production Engineer Pragati Automation Pvt. Limited - Bangalore, Karnataka July 2013 to June 2014 Bangalore -Engineering July 13 - June 14  - Developed, evaluated and improved Production Schedules. Performed root cause analysis reports on key performance metrics. Reduced the material replenishment lead time by 15%. Supply Chain Analyst Intern Café Coffee Day - Bangalore, Karnataka January 2013 to June 2013 - Analyzed data for the delivery load and schedule. Route optimization for café delivery network was done using TSP  - Categorized cafes by demand and recalculated the delivery cycle. Number of trips reduced by 25%    Projects  Python projects  - Coded Linear Regression (OLS) and KNN algorithms from scratch.  - Recreated plots and exercises from "Introduction to Statistical Learning with R" by Trevor Hastie using Python.  - Parsed data from interview transcripts, WhatsApp chat logs using regular expressions and NLTK. Data was transformed into a Data Frame to perform grouping and further analysis. Matplotlib was used for plotting.  - Created a recommendation system for media type for a patient care system.    Requirement Development & Integration for Complex Systems  - Developed and documented needs, wants and requirements for a Doctor- Patient Communication System.  - Used QFD and AHP for the analysis. Created RVTM's, stakeholder registry and feedback reports. Evaluated alternatives to reduce project cost by collectively weighing costs, risks, reliability, weight, performance, and other parameters;    Database Management - SQL  - Designed and created a Coffee Shop Database in MySQL to manage warehouse dispatch, coffee shop sales, customers, product, shipping, and holding costs. For reporting SQL Queries were written and Excel VBA, user forms were used to create a user interface, generate tables and dashboards. SAP BO (UDT, IDT) were used to create the universe design.    Business Intelligence, Data mining  - Used the Yelp Dataset Challenge data. Data Analysis, determined attributes that would help business owners improve their star ratings. The data was converted from JSON format to CSV using Python.  - SAS EM was used for Data Preprocessing, Imputation, Transformation, Building Decision Trees, and Regression Models.    Design of Experiments  - Carried out Statistical analysis of blood pressure as response variable to three lifestyle factors: alcohol consumption, caffeine intake and amount of daily exercise. 2^3 factorial design with blocking principles utilized.  - ANOVA, residuals and normality plots simulated on Minitab. Caffeine and exercise were found to be major contributors. Education Master of Science in Systems Engineering and Management University of Texas at Dallas - Dallas, TX May 2016 Skills EXCEL (4 years), SQL (2 years), PYTHON (2 years), DATABASE (2 years), MYSQL (2 years), Elasticsearch (2 years) Links http://linkedin.com/in/ydj91 Additional Information Technical Skills  Languages - Python 2.7,3.5, VBA, Python Libraries - Scipy, Pandas, Numpy, SciKitLearn, Pandas, BeautifulSoup  Tools/ Version control/IDE - Pycharm, Jupyter, Sublime text, JIRA, Bitbucket, Git  BI / Reporting - Excel, Tableau, SAS - Enterprise Miner, Qlikview, Minitab, JMP, Systat  Database - MySQL, SQL Server, Erwin, SAP Business Objects (UDT, IDT, Webi), MS Access