Bookseller Bookseller Springdale, MD Innovative, results-driven, and solutions-oriented recent graduate offering intern experience in web development and project management. Noted by management as being a problem solver with proven ability to work as a contributing team member as well as working independently exceeding expectations. Highly adept at assuming complex projects, working well under pressure, and meeting deadlines in high volume work environments. Overall goal is to secure a position in the field of Information Technology and Cyber Security where my skills, experience and education can be utilized. Work Experience Bookseller Barnes and Noble Morgan State University - Baltimore, MD March 2017 to September 2018 * Answered customers' questions and addressed problems and complaints in person and via phone.  * Operated a cash register to process cash, check and credit card transactions for text book ordering.  * Ensured merchandise was checked in on delivery and that damaged products were reviewed by manager.  * Routinely checked sales floor shelves several times a day and added new product and merchandise when stock levels are low and below department standards. Student Facilitator Morgan State University Operating Staff - Baltimore, MD March 2016 to September 2017 * Overseen and provided direction for the students and the University student center.  * Held accountable for facilitating, coordinating tasks, and setting up and breaking down events that were being held at the University. Python Back-End Web Developer Intern PCI STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT - Columbia, MD June 2017 to August 2017 * Implanted a GUI Resume Parser Application using the Python Programming Language with the Open source Python framework Kivy.  * Created a GUI Five-person Team Builder Application using the Python Programming Language with the Open source Python framework Kivy.  * Streamlined a development process that improved efficiency and ensures a high quality and easy-to-manage product.  * Managed workflow and communication with clients and colleagues across multiple web projects.  * Successfully executed over several web projects for clients ranging from different business sectors.  * Displayed knowledge of basic trouble shoot to resolve any web application issues and escalated to seasoned developers if necessary. Project Management Intern / IT intern BRAILSFORD & DU NLEAVEY - Washington, DC June 2016 to August 2016 * Assisted project team members with the completion of planning, pre-development and/or implementation assignments.  * Performed data collection and analysis to include focus group leading and reporting, in-person and telephone interviews, survey design and analysis, site analysis, space planning, financial modeling, and print and internet research.  * Presented weekly cost / revenue comparison report to project managers, providing financial status of project.  * Supported all project managers with PowerPoint preparations for project team handouts and overhead slides.  * Maintained project-related documents including drawings, project binders, client correspondences, meeting minutes, action items, invoices, and similar items.  * Assisted with project-related financial issues including budget monitoring, revenue and expense tracking, reconciliation, and reimbursement processing.  * Researched, analyzed and presented project-related data to project managers and executives so that they may make informed decisions on methodologies, strategies, or required tasks.  * Manipulated, Extracted and Re-implemented Big Data files within Company's SharePoint Site using Powershell Education Bachelor of Science in Cyber Security Morgan State University - Baltimore, MD 2018