Python Tutor <span class="hl">Python</span> Tutor Administrative Assistant Green Park, MO Flexible, hardworking programmer looking for apprenticeship, internship  or junior-level position focused on software development. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Tutor None; Personal - Chesterfield, MO May 2018 to Present Hired by a senior network engineer for help learning the Python programming language, and guidance for writing better scripts for automating several processes. Junior Developer Freelance IT Solutions - Orlando, FL January 2017 to Present Brought in to fix site-wide errors on several websites and handle server migration. Also developed new applications using the Scrum process. Was responsible for the early stages of design on these, most details of implementation, and handling all direct changes to development servers. Administrative Assistant Sher & Shabsin, P.C - St. Louis, MO June 2014 to Present Sorted documents, checked for debtor bankruptcy, eFiled lawsuits, sent letters. Webmaster Trinity Tickets - Birmingham, AL February 2017 to May 2017 Restored the functionality of the site (which had been broken and in disuse since 2014), modernized the interface and implemented manager’s preferred color palette. Overnight Remodeler Michael's Crafts - Green Park, MO June 2013 to June 2013 Moved and stocked shelves for summer reorganization. Food Service Associate Six Flags St. Louis - Eureka, MO June 2012 to August 2012 Served food, took orders, engaged customers.  Was often required to operate a stand or restaurant alone. Education BS in Computer Science University of Missouri-St Louis - St. Louis, MO August 2016 to May 2018 Computer Science and Telecommunications & Film University of Alabama - Tuscaloosa, AL August 2012 to May 2016 Design and Imperative Programming Lindbergh High School - St. Louis, MO August 2008 to June 2012 Skills Microsoft Office (10+ years), Windows (10+ years), HTML (10+ years), Java (10+ years), Python (5 years), C (3 years), C++ (3 years), CSS (3 years), Eclipse (2 years), Assembly (2 years), Final Cut Pro (3 years), Javascript (4 years), Mac OS X (6 years), Linux (4 years), Visual Studio (1 year), Xcode (1 year), Relational Programming (Less than 1 year), C# (1 year), .NET (Less than 1 year) Links http://linkedin.com/in/wrshiflet http://github.com/another-wes Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Object-Oriented Design & Languages  ? Java, C++, Python, Python3  Procedural & Imperative Programming Languages  ? Go, C90, C99, Assembly  Operating Systems  ? Windows, Linux, Mac OS  Web Design  ? HTML, CSS, some JavaScript and HTML5  Development Software  ? Eclipse IDE, Sublime Text, Microsoft Visual Studio, MPLAB IDE  PROJECTS  Circuit Logic Simulator (2014; Improved 2016): Java. An interactive learning tool  that demonstrates the behavior of computer circuits at the level of CMOS logic gates.  • Allows the user to create their own simulated CMOS circuits or modify default  ones by placing, deleting or rewiring logic gates on a virtual 32 I/O pin circuit board  - Supports all basic gates (AND, OR, NAND, NOR, XOR) with up to 4 inputs each,  plus simplified multiplexers and inverters  • Works with a database to store created circuits and user-designated names for  the I/O pins  - Can restore a default database consisting of half and full adders, a ripple-carry  adder, a demultiplexer and several encoders, including an accurate IC 74147 chip  Kruskal.py (2016): Python3. An open-ended variation of Kruskal's algorithm.  • Interprets an undirected graph from a file consisting integers and semicolons  • Efficiently generates and analyzes a minimum spanning tree  Heapsort.c (2016): C. A custom variation, optimized for C, of heapsort, which I have  implemented several times before and since in other languages.  • Sorts integers read from a ASCII file.