Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Durham, NC Master's graduate seeking to leverage experience in risk analysis, personnel management and  quality assurance for development position. Dedicated employee with outstanding attention to  detail and communication skills. Recently completed a course of study in backend development  and data science at The Iron Yard code school. Specific expertise in the following:  ? Project Management ? Database Management  ? Statistical Modeling . ? Python, HTML, CSS, JavaScript Work Experience Python Developer The Iron Yard - Durham, NC March 2016 to June 2016 Twelve week immersive class with intensive coursework in Python Engineering and a focus in Data Science Nuclear Quality Control Inspector Integrated Power Services July 2014 to August 2015 Execute and oversee aspects of 10CFR50 Appendix B nuclear quality assurance  program and ensure adherence to Nuclear Regulatory Commission requirements.  ? Implement database to track calibration/maintenance of 350+ measurement devices  ? Assisted in 75% reduction of NUPIC audit findings Technical Writer Integrated Power Services April 2014 to July 2014 Identify technical requirements and develop documents for nuclear quality processes.  ? Researched and wrote work instructions for mechanical and electrical test procedures  ? Provide IT support for internal work processes Technical Writer Integrated Power Services March 2013 to April 2014 Design and generate specialized reports for commercial customer approval.  ? Reviewed measurement and repair data supplied in customer reports Volunteer Management Intern Habitat for Humanity - Cleveland, OH January 2012 to February 2013 Cleveland, OH January 2012 - February 2013  Works in partnerships to eliminate substandard housing, enabling families and volunteers to improve their lives.  Volunteer Management Intern  Facilitate homebuilding process for partner families and manage store inventory.  ? Supervised volunteer groups and coordinated project activities  ? Managed donation process and assisted in permit applications  ? Updated inventory database  ? Reviewed and updated safety compliance documentation Actuarial Analyst Findley Davies - Cleveland, OH February 2011 to December 2011 Cleveland, OH February 2011 - December 2011  Partners with organizations to align people strategies with business strategies through design and implementation of human resource programs.  Actuarial Analyst  Analyze pension plan and retirementrelated issues with a focus on mitigating clients' risk  exposure while enhancing their financial performance.  ? Calculated benefits and actuarial valuations, and filed associated government forms  ? Updated and managed client databases  ? Assisted consultants and actuaries in plandesign studies and other related projects  ? Pursued actuarial credentials through the firmsponsored program Education Master of Arts in Economics Miami University - Oxford, OH August 2003 to December 2008 National Outdoor Leadership School - Lander, WY July 2007 Links http://github.com/gregajohnston http://linkedin.com/in/gregajohnston http://gregajohnston.github.io