Data Engineer/ Python Developer Data Engineer/<span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Data Engineer/ Python Developer - Medmeme, NY Princeton, NJ Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Data Engineer/ Python Developer Medmeme, NY 2017 to Present Technology stack: Python, JavaEE, Web scraping, MapR DB, PostgreSQL, AWS EC2, AWS S3, Apache Drill, StreamSets, Apache TIKA    • Worked hands on in AWS development and production environments. Deployed and maintained code across AWS environments.    • Scraped and collected data from various sources for approximately 50 million records.    • Analysed data with sklearn python module and applied topic modeling technique for our labeled data    • Applied named entity recognition on unstructured data to build meaningful records.    • Developed Java components to clean and clear noise in data using customized Boilerplate library and integrated it to the data pipeline.    • Developed a web crawler capable of crawling the world wide web using machine learning techniques.    • Involved in full software development project life cycle in Agile methodology. Software Development Engineer Duke Energy - Charlotte, NC 2015 to 2017 Technologies: Java, Java EE, JavaScript, XML, Hibernate, Spring, RESTful, Webservices, Oracle 11g, Eclipse    • Performed full lifecycle software development, including formulating a survey application that published survey results in the required format with detailed results.    • Streamlined the ability of users to find current content via design and implementation of a search functionality used to search for specific words or phrases.    • Compiled key data by leading requirement gathering meetings and subsequently incorporating findings in application design.  • Implemented J2EE standards, MVC2 architecture using Spring Framework.  • Implemented SPRING MVC architecture to develop presentation tier and business layer using components like dispatcher Servlet, extensively used spring ORM template for communicating the database.  • Used Spring 2.0 Managed beans to use windows session state framework to persist session to the database.  • Involved in development of REST APIs that allow sophisticated, effective and low-cost application integration.  • Integrated Spring, hibernate frameworks to work with one another.  • Used Source Integrity tool to build and deploy the application.  • Backend application layer is implemented using Spring in WebLogic Application Server environment. Software Design Engineer Intern GoodWorkLabs - IN 2013 to 2013 Performed comprehensive studies of various algorithms by investigating performance, design, and usability. Transformed the employee communicator application into a user-friendly tool by building and implementing a graphical user interface. Enabled sophisticated, effective, and low-cost application integration via participation in the development of REST APIs.  • Used Design patterns such as Service locator, Model View Controller, DAO, Singleton.  • Application was hosted in WebSphere Application Server environment.  • Involved in JUNIT testing for the component testing. Education MS in Computer Science in Computer Science San Diego State University - San Diego, CA 2015 BS in Computer Science & Engineering Jawaharlal Technological University 2013 Skills Java, Python Links http://www.vertiv.com Additional Information Innovative and technology-minded Data Engineer with experience driving the performance, usability, and feasibility of applications and components.  • Overall 4+ years of experience Analysis, Design, Development, Implementation, and Testing of various stand-alone and client-server architecture-based enterprise application software in python on various domain.  • Proficient with various python libraries like SciPy, NumPy, Matplotlib, Pandas, PyTables, pickle to enhance the performance throughout the SDLC.  • Good working experience loading Data Files in AWS Environment and Performed SQL Testing on AWS redshift databases  • Experience in AWS creating of EC2 instances, using S3 for data storage, Lambda, cloud formation.  • Excellent understanding of business operations and analytical tools for effective analysis of data.  • Significant experience in requirements analysis, designing, developing, testing and implementing various applications across diverse technology platforms.  • Proficient with various DBMS like MySQL, PostgreSQL, MongoDB.  • Expertise in using Hibernate, extensively used Criteria Queries, Projections, Unidirectional and Bidirectional associations  • Extensive experience in implementing and consuming Web Services (REST).  • Extensive experience in Multi-Threading, implemented Thread pooling concept.  • Hands on experience with Integrated Development Environments (IDE's) tools like Eclipse and IntelliJ IDEA  • Expertise in various Web development technologies like JavaScript, JQuery, HTML and CSS.  • Expertise in developing and deploying J2EE applications on web and application servers like Tomcat, Weblogic, JBoss EAP and Web Sphere  • Good experience in writing SQL, PL/SQL (Procedures, Functions, Triggers, Views and Cursors)  • Good experience in Change management using tools like SVN and GIT  • Motivated team player and self-starter with ability to work under minimal supervision possessing strong analytical, problem solving and great communicational skills    Core Languages & Technologies:  Cloud/Hadoop Technologies AWS EC2, AWS S3, AWS EBS, AWS Glacier, MapR DB, StreamSets, Apache Drill, Apache TIKA  Data analytics Frameworks Spacy, Scrapy, sklearn, NumPy  Java/JEE Technologies: Spring, Hibernate, Webservices, Servlets, JSP, MVC, JMS  Scripting Languages: AngularJS, HTML, CSS, Javascript, JQuery  Programming Languages: Python, Java, C, C++, SQL, PL/SQL, Swift, XML  Databases: Oracle, Microsoft SQL Server, MySQL  Application Servers: AWS, Weblogic, Apache Tomcat, IBM Websphere  IDE Tools: PyCharm, Spyder, Eclipse, Android Studio, XCode  Testing Junit, Mockito