Java and python Developer Java and <span class="hl">python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Dallas, TX Strong Organizational skills, educational background and ability to work in tandem with people, demonstrated by proven previous professional and volunteering experiences which empower me to contribute the University as a Research assistant. I am a Backend & Full Stack Web Developer who is passionate in developing complex and challenging systems with high operational efficiency. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java and python Developer Raven Software Solutions February 2016 to Present • Contributed to Servlet based application development.  • Assisted in maintaining and updating existing applications and modules.  • Helped design form validation programs using HTML and JavaScript.  • Contributed to development of client side and server side codes for external and internal web applications. Provided assistance and support to programing team members as required.  • Developed Object oriented Programing to enhance company product management.Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgresSQL with complete data integrity. Graduate Research Assistant Southeast Missouri State University - Southeast, Missouri, US May 2014 to December 2015 • Designed and simulation of delay in service time of a freeway service patrol in high traffic areas. The simulation and the algorithms are implemented in arena and Matlab  • Monitor project progress by tracking the activity and publishing project updates  • Prepare technical reports by collecting, analyzing and Summarizing information trends.    IEEE Paper Publishment:  • http://www.iosrjen.org/Papers/vol3_issue10%20(part-4)/G031044958.pdf Student Intern All India Radio & Dordarshan - Vijayawada, Andhra Pradesh December 2012 to May 2013 • Performed duties such as technical Maintenance and Fault Detection assistance.  • Managed a team of four Students working for Project completion during the course of internship. Customer Services Assistant A.N University - Guntur, Andhra Pradesh March 2012 to December 2012 • Provided services to A.N University Student Ordinate assisting them with customer support, Tech maintenance.  • Solved critical issues of Club's limitations and mishaps without the intervention of University authorities. Clerical Assistant A.N University - Guntur, Andhra Pradesh January 2012 to March 2012 • Provided assistance to students outside the campus during ANUSODHANA, a Cultural Symposium in Acharya Nagarjuna University.  • Performed clerical duties such as sending emails, data entry, typing forms, Word processing on PC, filing, making photo copies, making deliveries and other related duties. Education Master of Science in Computer Science southeast Missouri state university - southeast, Missouri, US 2015 Bachelor of Technology in Electronics and Communication A.N. University 2010 to May 2013 Links http://www.iosrjen.org/Papers/vol3_issue10%20(part-4)/G031044958.pdf Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Programming C++, HTML, Java.  Technical software MATLAB, Arena  Operating systems Windows 95/98/2000/XP, Vista, 7, Mac OSX  Application software MS Excel, MS PowerPoint, MS Word, Outlook, MS Access, Google Forms and Docs