Devops Engineer/ Python Developer Devops Engineer/<span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Devops Engineer/ Python Developer - Silicus Technologies Houston, TX • Over 3+ year of diversified experience in Linux administration, build and Release, Devops Tools, Cloud Computing, Networking.  • Strong experience on all Linux flavors.  • Excelled in OS patching to all Linux distributions including all versions by using Chef.  • Hands on experience on virtualization technologies, containers and cloud environment.  • Wrote custom Vagrant scripts to automate building of VM environments.  • Good knowledge on Docker container technology.  • Good knowledge on creatingAMI (Amazon machine images) that utilizes ELB (Elastic Load Balancer) and Auto Scaling. That Auto Scaling fired up new resources those will by default bootstrapped with the Chef-Server.  • Strong experience in python and shell scripting.  • Excelled in managing Repository managers like Nexus and Artifactory.  • Good understand of Knife, Chef Bootstrap process and also creating Roles, Environments, Data Bags in chefcookbooksand upload it to the chef server.  • Having good experience in Managing Cloud computing AWS components like EC2, AMI, volumes, snapshots, S3, ELB, auto scaling, cloud watch, CloudTrail, CloudFormation& IAM.  • Good knowledge on writing docker files for creating the containers and push containers to Docker private registry.  • Experience on monitoring tools like Nagious and Splunk.  • Knowledge on Ansible tool for configuration management and deployment. Wrote some Ansible playbooks for automation process.  • Good understanding and involved in blue-green deployment. Work Experience Devops Engineer/ Python Developer Silicus Technologies - Houston, TX September 2015 to Present Date  Houston, TX  Role: Devops Engineer/ Python Developer    Responsibilities:  Silicus is a technology consulting, software outsourcing and software development service company.    • Working as a Devops Engineer/ Python Devloper for supporting multiple projects doing automation for OS patching to the all Linux distributions and implemented monitoring tool in python for getting agent logs from all the Linux virtual machines.  • UsedChef tool for automatic OS patching to the all Linux distributions including all versions.  • Wrote cookbooks for doing automate the security patch, all patch and critical patch.  • Created multiple organizations for different clients and deployed the production servers in its organization.  • Configured the centralized server for collecting the all the reports.  • UsedChef handlers for generating reports in CSV format, and send all the reports to centralized server.  • Usedpythonas a monitoring tool for collecting the agent logs from the all Linux flavors.  • Implemented python scriptsby using stranded libraries for getting the all theagent logs (Inventory, Remote connections, Network usage andperformance counters) from the different flavors of Linux.  • Created configuration file for controlling the collection of agent logs.  • Generated all agent logs in json format.  • Mounted the Network shared drive to all agents for upload all agent logs (output json files) to Network shared drive.  • Configured master server for uploading agent logs from network sherd drive to Azure Blob storage.  • Used python API for uploading all the agent logs into Azure Blob storage.  • Good experience on Linux CLI.  • Used Git, Maven, Jenkins, Chef and Jira as tools for day to day build & release cycles.  • Experienced in authoring pom.xml files, performing releases with the Maven release plugin, Mavenizationof Java projects and managing Maven repositories.  • Managed Dependency Management within the teams by installing and configuring Nexus/Artifactoryrepository manager.  • Configured and maintained Jenkins to implement the CI process and integrated the tool with Ant and Maven to schedule the builds.    Environment: Ant, Maven, Git, Jenkins, Linux, Shell, Ruby, Python, Apache Tomcat, Artifactory, Chef, Azure. Build/ Jr.Devops Engineer SkoruzTechnologies, CA 2015 to August 2016 Responsibilities:    • Working as a Jr build/devopsengineer for the Applications and Services developed using SOA/Micro Services principles mostly in Java/J2EE frameworks for more than 5 different applications. Used Git, Maven, Jenkins, Ansible, AWS, Chef and Jira as tools for day to day build & release cycles.  • Hands on experience on automate the build process, built and deployed to the lower environment.  • Experienced in authoring pom.xml files, performing releases with the Maven release plugin, Mavenizationof Java projects and managing Maven repositories.  • Managed Dependency Management within the teams by installing and configuring Nexus/Artifactoryrepository manager.  • Setting up proxys for artifactory repository and create local repo's for releases and snapshots.  • Implement, maintain and support reliable, timely and reproducible builds for project teams.  • Researched and implemented code coverage and unit test plug-ins with Maven/Jenkins.  • Used Maven dependency management system to deploy snapshot and release artifacts to Nexus to share artifacts across projects.  • Configured and maintained Jenkins to implement the CI process and integrated the tool with Ant and Maven to schedule the builds.  • Work with development/testing, deployment, systems/infrastructure and project teams to ensure continuous operation of build and test systems.  • Own full lifecycle of build system - from analysis, development, implementation and support of builds, unit testing and deployments.  • Used Jira as ticket tracking and work flow tool.  • Good knowledge on Cookbooks with Test Kitchen and Docker containers even before uploading to chef server.  • Experience on writing Cookbooks and Recipes using Industry Best Practices for both Deployment Automation and Infra Configuration Management.  • Good understanding of Networking, VPC, Data center to Cloud Connective, Security etc in AWS Cloud.  • Working knowledge of following cloud services of AWS: EC2, S3, VPC, EBS, ELB, Auto scaling, Cloud Watch, Cloud Trail, IAM, SNS, SQS, RDS, Dynamo DB, Cloud Front etc.  • Good Knowledge of AWS CLI.    Environment: Ant, Maven, git, Jenkins, Linux, Shell, ruby, python, Apache Tomcat, Nexus, chef, aws. Linux Administrator Engineer Persistent Systems IncJun - Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh 2012 to March 2014 Responsibilities:    • Experience in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) in Agile, Scrum, and Waterfall methodologies.  • Experience in Deploying, Configuring and Hardening the RHEL 5.x, 6.x.  • Install, upgrade and manage packages via RPM and YUM package management  • Performing User administration, Setting SSH connection for users and password-less authentication and fixing logins issues.  • Installed and configured several hundred Red Hat Servers and VMware ESXi Virtual Environment.  • File System creation and mounting the same as per the requests.  • Worked on configuring SMTP, NFS, DNS, DHCP, FTP, FSTP, Telnet and RAID levels.  • Experience in working with MySQL databases, Apache Web server, Tomcat Application Servers.  • Experience I writing various type Shell scripting.  • Experience in Networking NIS, NFS, DNS, DHCP, FTP, FSTP, Telnet.  • Having Good experience in managing Kick start installations.  • Hands on experience on writing vagrant files to create vm.  • Creating the Private and public keys by using ssh-key gen.  • Experienced in configure Apache and web Applications.  Environment: RHEL 5.x/6.x, NFS, SMTP, Shell Programming, VMWare ESXi 5.x, 6X, Vagrant, KickStart, ESXI, DNS, Firewalls, Tomcat. Education M.S. NorthWestern Polytechnic University - Fremont, CA May 2014 to August 2015 B. Tech. Jawaharlal Nehru technological university - Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh October 2009 to May 2013 Skills maven (2 years), Jenkins (3 years), Git (2 years), Chef (2 years), Ansible (Less than 1 year), aws (1 year), Tomcat (2 years), Python (1 year), shell (2 years) Links https://github.com/python225 Certifications/Licenses aws certified developer - associate level May 2018 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:-    SCM Tool: Subversion (SVN), Jenkins, Jira,  GIT, GitHub.    Build Tool: Ant, Maven.    Servers: JBOSS, Apache Tomcat, nginx, Apache http.    Platforms: Ubuntu, RedHat, Suse RHEL    Repository: Artifactory, Nexus.    Scripting: Shell, Python, and Ruby.    Database System: RDS, Dynamo DB, mysql.    Configuration: Chef, Ansible.  Management tools    Cloud Computing: Amazon Web Services: EC2, IAM, Elastic Beanstalk, and  Elastic Load balancer (ELB), RDS (MySQL), Dynamo DB, S3,  Route 53, ECS, VPC, Monitoring, Glacier.