Graduate Assistant to Professor Ann Marie, Horcher, CMU Graduate Assistant to Professor Ann Marie, Horcher, CMU Graduate student | Information systems | SAP |Central Michigan University | Actively looking for Full-time positions starting May 2019. Mount Pleasant, MI Python/Django Web Developer with 1yr + experience in Django and Object-relational mapping (ORM). Systems Engineer with 1-year experience in network troubleshooting. Interested in learning new technologies; Enjoy working in both team and self-directed environments.     Pursuing Graduate studies at Central Michigan University, MI with SAP concentration. Actively looking for Full-time positions starting May 2019. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Graduate Assistant to Professor Ann Marie, Horcher, CMU Central Michigan University January 2018 to Present • Conduct 5 hours per week of classroom instruction  • Help with the implementation and assessment of assigned projects and programs  • Attend meetings for assigned projects and programs  • Post materials in "MyCourses" and respond to student questions posed verbally and electronically.  • Interacting with undergraduate students and resolving their problems  Skills:  • Ability to prioritize and manage work in stipulated time.  • Ability to work in a team environment and handle responsibilities individually.  • Ready to work on holidays and weekends.  • Proficient in computer, managing time, and coordinating with external agencies. Python Developer HCL Technologies - Bangalore, India June 2016 to September 2017 •  Worked on web application development and maintenance.  • Involved in Python, shell scripting and PL/SQL programming to resolve business problems.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed Python bug fixes of the applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  •  Used Code Collaborator for reviewing the code and document to meet the software quality, performed integrations with Jira, SVN and eclipse.  • Created Forms, views, models using Django.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in cloud.  • Coordinate with internal teams to understand user requirements and provide technical solutions.  • Assess and prioritize feature requests.  • Test and debug programs. System Engineer HCL Technologies - Bengaluru, Karnataka August 2015 to June 2016 ·      Monitors and logs TCP/IP traffic passing between a network and the computer on which it is executed.  ·      Trained in testing the network/traffic flow between different hosts and Wlans.  ·      Gather and document that provides descriptions of packet content in several formats, depending on the command used.  ·      Provide statistics about the number of packets received and captured at the operating node for network performance analysis, debugging and diagnosing network bottlenecks and other network-oriented tasks.  ·      Coordinated with the server and network teams. Education Master of Science in Information Systems in Information Systems Central Michigan University January 2018 to Present Master of Technology in Communication Systems (Integrated B.tech + M.tech) GITAM University - Visakhapatnam, Andhra Pradesh April 2013 to April 2015 Bachelor of Technology in Electronics and Communication Engineering GITAM University - Visakhapatnam, Andhra Pradesh June 2010 to April 2014 Skills C+ (Less than 1 year), CSS (Less than 1 year), Databases - Oracle, MongoDB, MYSQL, SQL SERVER, MS Access, Netezza. (Less than 1 year), Eclipse (Less than 1 year), Python -Django, Scripting Languages: Shell Scripting, Perl., Platforms: Windows, Macintosh, Red Hat Linux., SAP (Business Process Integration), Python - Object-Relational Mapping (ORM), OOPS, HTML 5, Java, Strategic Planning, Matlab, Vb.Net, Vmware, Visual Basic, Database Management, Telecommunications Additional Information ·     Qualified Python Developer experience using Python.  ·     Good Experience with Django, Flask high-level Python Web framework.  ·     Experienced Object-Oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python and C++.  ·     Experienced in working in Unix platforms.  ·     Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PL SQL database.  ·     Worked in agile and waterfall methodologies with high quality deliverables delivered on-time.  ·     Experienced in Networking with the TCP/IP protocols and applications.   ·     Academic experience of LAN/WAN infrastructures, protocols, and technologies.  ·     Real-time experience with Enterprise Resource Planning with SAP (Business Process Integration).   ·     Hands-on experience of best business practices, organizational elements, SAP configuration rules and master data.  ·     Gained hands-on experience in various aspects of SAP including SAP EEC, SAP BW / Business Intelligence, SAP configuration, ABAP and SAP Data Retention Tool.