Python/selenium Automation tester <span class="hl">Python</span>/selenium Automation tester Python/selenium Automation tester - Wipro Technologies • Having 4.8 years of extensive experience in Software Development & Automation Testing.  • A main area of expertise is Python Automation projects.  • Extensively working experience in preparation of Design Documents of User stories & Test cases.  • Good knowledge on Python concepts like Data Structures, OOPS, File Handling, Functions, Regular Expressions and Exception Handling & Python Selenium Binding Libraries.  • Experience on Automation testing Flow (Navigation, Unit & Integration testing).  • Extensively working on fixing the bugs while execution.  • Good knowledge on develop Web Application using Django Framework.  • Knowledge in using scripting and programming languages like HTML, Selenium, JavaScript.  • Good in design and managing RDBMS databases: PostgreSQL, MySQL  • Knowledge on Version control system using GIT and GitHub.  • Good knowledge of Software Development Life Cycle Agile Methodology (SCRUM).  • Good exposure to OS Platforms Windows and Linux.  • High degree of flexibility and ability to adapt to change in direction. Work Experience Python/selenium Automation tester Wipro Technologies November 2018 to Present Worked as a Software Developer in Ness Technologies, Bangalore from April 2017 to Oct 2018. Caller Ring-back Tone (CRBT) Development WIFI Networks September 2015 to March 2017 Environment: Python, MySQL, PyCharm, Linux, GIT, QC  Role: Developer    Project Description:  A Caller Ring-back Tone (CRBT): Also known as "Audible Ringing Tone" is the song or sound that is heard on the telephone line by the calling party after dialing and prior to the call being answered at the receiving end.  The requirement was to develop an application named Python AGI (Asterisk Gateway/Dial plan) which acts as an API interface that takes the customer requests for an activation of RBT service through different modes of channels: IVR, SMS, USSD, WEB/CCI, OBD and IBD. Whenever the customer calls the call land to telecom servers where it checks internally through the API asterisk gateway interface that tune/RBT has activated for each person, fetch the tune details trough Python: DBI interface and plays for the caller until caller hangs up the phone or receiver picks up the call.    Contribution:  • Requirement Analysis, Design, Implementation, Testing and Documentation.  • Integration and back end functionality.  • Involved in coding and implementation of new features.  • Involved in Database querying and project migration.  • Conducting and coordinating with interface teams to understand and analyse the production issues.  • Generating requested reports using Python Scripting and MySQL queries.  • Data backups &Reports automations using Python Scripting. Software Developer WIFI Networks April 2014 to March 2017 Education Bachelor of Technology in Computer Science Eng JNT University 2009 Additional Information Technical Skills:    Programming Languages: Python 3.6, HTML  Testing Tool: Selenium  Database: MySQL, PostgreSQL    Operating Systems: Windows, Linux.  Web Framework: Django  Version Control: Git, GitHub  IDE: PyCharm