Concept Contract Developer Concept Contract <span class="hl">Developer</span> Concept Contract Developer - Welo Boston, MA Work Experience Concept Contract Developer Welo - Worcester, MA 2019 to Present Worcester, MA 2019  Welo is a social, content-based, health & wellness platform that educates and enables people to live healthier lives.  Concept Contract Developer  Developed the backend platform that allowed users to register their email address to the company's MailChimp account to receive email updates and company advertisements. Created using Node.js, Express, Mongoose, MySQL, jQuery, HTML, and CSS. Python Developer Coding Temple - Boston, MA Present Developed full stack web applications using Flask, Python, React.js, SQL, HTML/CSS, and JavaScript.  Included in the applications built are custom designed relational databases, user role management, and salted  hashing password encryption for site security.    • Developed web applications using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Angular, Python, Django and SQL  • Developed dynamic frontend and backend applications using Python, Flask Frameworks  • Experience in building full stack E commerce Applications using Python, Flask, SQL, Bootstrap and JavaScript  • Experience working with APIs and implementing them to Frontend/Backend apps  • Data Analysis, Data wrangling and development of algorithms in Python for data mining and analysis.  • Python NumPy, SciPy, Pandas packages to perform dataset manipulation  • Utilized CSS to make the application responsive  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript  • Exported/Imported data between different data sources using SQL  • Worked in SQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization and denormalization Full Stack Web Developer Avatar Computing Systems Inc - Worcester, MA January 2017 to February 2018 Develop the overall structure of projects that start with translating the customer's requests into working pseudocode, designing a code first model structure with relationships between models to be translated into table data for SQL using  Entity Framework, scripting various CRUD functions for the models in the controllers, generating views for controller  functions and implementing any changes, additions or deletions requested by the customer.  • Project: An accountability app W where the goal was to allow a user to create an event that can be titled from a dropdown list of choices, given a start date from a jQuery plugin date selector, given an end date from the same  plugin and the choice of making it an all-day or half day event from a radio button list. Improved the ability to show  events to groups of people with different team statuses that were relevant to them in order to increase overall  security. Created using ASP.NET MVC 5, Entity, C#, SQL, jQuery, Bootstrap, HTML, CSS, and AJAX.  • Project: An army apparel catalog W where the goal of the site was to display a catalog of various military apparel  which displayed all the item details, what companies they were purchased from and how to acquire them. Simplified  adding items to the catalog in order to increase productivity by allowing the user to incorporate all the details of the product. Created using ASP.NET MVC 5, Entity, C#, SQL, jQuery, Bootstrap, HTML, CSS, and AJAX.    Expertise that Adds Company Value  Highly Motivated Responsible communicator Diagnostic and Creative Problem Solver Analytical Independent and Collaborative As Needed Exceed Project Goals Software Documentation Effective Listener Creative and Conceptual  Thinking Time Management Engineering Postgres Troubleshooting Server-Side Development Testing Agile  Software Development Web Application Software Development Full-Stack Development Communication Skills  Database Design HTML5 APIs Web Development Problem Solving  Technical Skills  Languages: Python, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, C#, Java Frameworks: Node.js, React.js, Express.js, ASP.NET, Entity  Database Tools: SQL, PostgreSQL, SQLite, MongoDB, Mongoose, SQL Server Management Studio, Postman Other  Tools: Git, Github, Heroku, jQuery, Ajax, JSON, Bootstrap, Jupyter Notebook, Visual Studio, Google Search    • Project: A customer matrix app - where the primary goal was to allow a user to store the credentials of a Customer, Project, Industry and Program into a SQL database and allow user to connect a customer to existing  projects, industries and programs upon creation and featured a working search function. Enabled the company  to select their own CSV files and populate the database with one click. Created using ASP.NET MVC 5, Entity, C#, SQL, jQuery, Bootstrap, HTML, and CSS. Mistahwhite.info November 2016 to December 2016 my current portfolio website that started as a Free Code Camp project in which projects  and skill set listings can be added without editing the front end.  Node.js, Express, Javascript, HTML, CSS, jQuery, MongoDB, Mongoose, Pug (Formally Jade)  November 2016 - December 2016  • First Impressions - a community media review site where users can review a media product (be it film, music, video game, or novel) with a character minimum of 300. Node.js October 2015 to February 2016 WeebWatch - a movie finder and updater that scourers the Gracenote api for Japanese animated films playing in theaters local to registered users. Java (Prototype), Python, HTML5, CSS3, Flask, PostgreSQL, React.js  November 2018 - Present Education Associates of Science in Computer Science Finger Lakes Community College - Canandaigua, NY Present StartUp Institute - Boston, MA 2014 to 2017 Associates of Science in Computer Systems Technologies Monroe Community College - Rochester, NY 2012 Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/peterallanwhite https://github.com/PeterWhite http://www.mistahwhite.info