Founder and Python Developer Founder and <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Engineer at Boeing Los Angeles, CA Full stack engineer currently working at Boeing who is looking for a better company and technical fit. Work Experience Founder and Python Developer Instarize - Los Angeles, CA May 2018 to Present Wrote a social media growth application that increases account interaction and impressions on Instagram using demographic targeting algorithms.      Application utilizes Instagram’s 3rd party APIs to generate account impressions, interactions and connections automatically to help businesses, influencers and creators reach a wider audience of potential customers or users.    Working with varies companies that include Warner Music, Muv, Skratch and others.     Deployed the Python code base to an Amazon EC2 server instance that allows the script to run for multiple users persistently on a server. Full-Stack Software Engineer Skratch Solutions LLC - Los Angeles, CA October 2018 to April 2019 Lead a team of newly hired developers in bringing development in-house, rather than having it outsourced by a team across the world. Learning on the fly was mandatory for this position.    Refactored old code, wrote documentation, created unit tests and developed new features for our React Native (Redux) app, Node.js backend, MongoDB database and React admin dashboard.    Wore multiple hats in an early startup environment. Helped with social media growth, UI design and overall business logic for the app. iOS Swift Mobile Developer & UX Designer Various Projects - Los Angeles, CA June 2016 to June 2018 Developed NoiseBot, an iOS app that provides a low cost, easy to use, 24/7 noise monitoring, reporting and enforcement solution that is initially targeted at consumer/residential situations. Available on the Apple App Store.    Worked on Camtest, an iOS social media app written in Swift that allows users to join ephemeral photo contests and win virtual coins/prizes. Using Cocoapods for 3rd party frameworks and Firebase for handling the backend. Software Engineering Intern Ticketmaster - Hollywood, CA June 2017 to September 2017 Developed a RESTful support/debugging tool that cross-referenced data from multiple MySQL databases to check data accuracy for a given live event ID as input.    Created project using Spring Boot, built using Maven (Java), and presented  on the front-end using Angular 2.0.    Won the 24 hour Ticketmaster Internship hackathon by creating a full-stack purchase application that allows customers to complete a ticket transaction for user recommended shows and events in a single click. Education Bachelor's in Computer Science UCLA - Los Angeles, CA September 2014 to August 2018 Skills Javascript, Git, HTML 5, MySQL, React, TypeScript, React Native, heroku, CSS, Front-end Development, Back-end Development, mobile development, Python, Angular, Redux, Java, JSX Links http://jasona-c.com https://github.com/jason11ac