Database Design Project(SQL) Database Design Project(SQL) ABAB Developer Binghamton, NY Work Experience Database Design Project(SQL) Research Project - Binghamton, NY October 2018 to January 2019 • Developed a management system for a retail business to store, manipulate and search products, keep a track of aall the purchases made by a customer and employees involved in all these purchases.  • Designed an ER model and transformed the model in relational schema.  LEADERSHIP EXPERIENCE Time-series data trend prediction( Python & R) NY, USA August 2018 to December 2018 . Handled real data-set from an e-commerce application in Python.   • Successfully obtained the sale quantity prediction from training data set.  ABAB Developer Tata Technologies - Pune, Maharashtra March 2018 to July 2018 • Developed a report displaying lists of purchase requisition with details Like MRP controller, release date and unit of measure • Modified standard layout Purchase orders script for loading company logo and address according to the client requirement.  • Modified the standard layout of as per client's specifications. Tata Technologies - Pune, Maharashtra March 2018 to July 2018 Web Developer Kaizen Infosys - Pune, Maharashtra November 2016 to February 2018 Developed an ecommerce web application, customer web portal, documentary launch website, and donations web application • Prototyped an average of 25 new product features per year • Regular attendee of web developer meetups and hackathons Kaizen Infosys - Pune, Maharashtra November 2016 to February 2018 Web Developer Kaizen Infosys - Pune, Maharashtra November 2016 to May 2017 Developed and executed the E-commerce portion of the website which involved adding products, making sure  Prices are correct, and availability of the product.  • Build customer Wordpress theme from scratch. Student Ambassador MKSSS's Cummins College - Pune, Maharashtra September 2016 to May 2017 Led tours to promote college to groups of up to 30 prospective students and parents IETE-approved National Conference on Signal Processing, Computer Modelling, Structural - Pune, Maharashtra June 2016 to May 2017 Developed a system for visually impaired people which helps them to learn the Braille script by hearing its  Hindi pronunciation to reduce their dependency on others.  • Extracted pattern is then matched with the standard pattern and converted to Hindi audio.  • Paper presented in IETE-approved National Conference on Signal Processing, Computer Modelling, Structural and Mechatronics (NCSPCMSM- 2K17). Research based project Research Based Project - Pune, Maharashtra July 2016 to December 2016 • In this research-oriented project, based on Apriori Algorithm I have designed a system that will take input from news feeds and convert it into different words by using the Optical Character Recognition tool.  • Established a trend regarding the financial market. Education Master of Science in Computer Science Binghamton University, State University of New York May 2020 MKSSS's Cummins College of Engineering - Pune, Maharashtra May 2017 Skills ABAP (Less than 1 year), Android (Less than 1 year), C+ (Less than 1 year), CSS (Less than 1 year), Java (Less than 1 year), HTML, Linux, Javascript, SQL (1 year)