Application Developer for Enterprise Systems Application <span class="hl">Developer</span> for Enterprise Systems Houston, TX Work Experience Application Developer for Enterprise Systems September 2017 to Present • Built an android application for convenience of students by allowing access to the features of the self-service portal.  • Developed a mobile application framework using JDeveloper which includes coding AMX, XML pages, data controls and data bindings.  • Designed an event registration and a course enrollment page among others for University of Houston's website using PeopleSoft tools.  • Responsible for a complete overhaul of the existing mobile application resulting in a cleaner UI, faster load time and lesser connectivity issues. Software Developer Ethon Health Care Solutions July 2016 to July 2017 • Responsible for developing a hospital management website which assists hospital staff and doctors in maintaining patient records using the MVC model in Java.  • Automated an email delivery system which notifies the patients of their appointment and billing information using Spring and Hibernate. Mini DBMS (C++) •         Implemented a query processing unit using C++ which does join, aggregate and data defined language operations.  •         Used YACC, LEX, Merge Sort, Binary Search Algorithm and GREP commands to efficiently process a given query.  Image Enhancement System ( Python, Opencv) •         Implemented Ideal, Gaussian, Butterworth and Notch filters using Numpy and Opencv to enhance a given image. Home Automation System (Socket Programming, Python, AmazonAWS) •         Built a physical authentication system using Raspberry Pi where admin user can view the person being authenticated and supervise the authentication process.  •         Used OpenCV and Amazon AWS for face recognition and Amazon Polly for voice recognition in the authentication process. Pattern Determining System (Java) Developed a pattern determining system using Apriori Algorithm to retrieve products which are frequently bought together in a product review dataset provided by Amazon Normalization Detection System ( Python, SQL) •         Given a set of tables, designed a system which gives a summary of normal forms that they satisfy.  •         Also decomposed the tables until they satisfy 3NF and checked if it is a lossless decomposition or not.   Storm data visualization (R, d3js, SQL) •         Visualized storm data to give precautionary measures and analyze the level of damage due to storm events.  •         Visualization techniques used are d3js, parallel coordinates, interactive charts and tableau. Zero Player Game (Scala, Python) •         Conway’s game of life is an infinite two dimensional grid which contains initial cells which keep on generating new world following certain rules.  •         Developed the game using both Scala and Python by maintaining immutability. Education Master's degree in computer science in masters University of Houston August 2017 to May 2019 Skills AWS (Less than 1 year), C+ (Less than 1 year), CSS (Less than 1 year), Erlang (Less than 1 year), HTML (Less than 1 year), Java. (1 year), JavaScript (Less than 1 year), JSP (Less than 1 year), MySQL (Less than 1 year), OPEN GL (Less than 1 year), OpenGL. (Less than 1 year), PHP (Less than 1 year), Python (Less than 1 year), Ruby (Less than 1 year), Scala (Less than 1 year), XML (1 year), Linux, SQL, SQL Server Certifications/Licenses Java Certification Oracle Certified Java Professional. Pega Systems     CSA, CSSA certified in Pega Systems. Additional Information TECHNOLOGIES KNOWN:  C++, Java, JavaScript, d3js, R, Python, Scala, Ruby, Amazon AWS, Erlang, Groovy, HTML, CSS, JSP, XML, PHP, MySQL Server, OpenGL.