Software Developer - I3 Global Contractor Software <span class="hl">Developer</span> - I3 Global Contractor Software Developer Richland, WA Software developer with three years experience building web applications with ASP.NET MVC, JavaScript and SQL Server.    Earned three Star Awards and a Special Recognition Award because of outstanding performance and ability to master new sites and languages quickly.    Reputation for excellent troubleshooting, independently learning new technologies like ASP.NET MVC and AngularJS, and developing scalable well-designed new applications. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Developer - I3 Global Contractor Mission Support Alliance February 2016 to Present Same job, same office as with Lockheed Martin but my contract was moved to I3Global. Designed 11 company  websites for MSA and their customers using ASP.NET MVC, ColdFusion, SQL Server, JavaScript, and AngularJS.  • Earned three Start Awards for using advanced SQL and AngularJS for making significant improvements to financial tracking sites and completing reports that hadn't been successfully completed in the past.  • Redesigned a class scheduling site for a large training facility using advanced JavaScript to dynamically  schedule classes, and display them in a readerboard page in front of classrooms. This site had problems and was rebuilt several times, now the customer is very pleased with the improved site.  • Building a web app for tracking buildings and structures on site with an advanced geographic map for finding them. Includes photos libraries, several safety assessments, and a reporting section for searching  records and exporting results to excel, word, and PDF.  • Strong communications skills from meeting with customers to gather requirements and experience with Agile, unit testing, writing test scripts, and documentation. Associate Software Developer Lockheed Martin August 2014 to February 2016 Used ColdFusion, ASP.NET MVC, and JQuery to design 13 financial calculation and reporting sites, multi-file uploads,  image libraries, exporting to PDF, Excel, and Word.  • Received commendation from the customer for building an amazon-like safety sign ordering application  because of its fast and intuitive user interface using Single Page Design.  • Earned a Special Recognition Award with a large financial bonus for helping develop a new project schedule  tracking web app by a seemingly impossible one month deadline that was legally and financially important. Senior Design Student Washington State University - Richland, WA August 2013 to May 2014 Worked on a Ruby on Rails website for tracking crop yields and worker productivity for Washington agriculture companies in a Linux environment. Designed the user interface and visual mapping of yield and productivity. ASP.NET Computer Science Intern Pacific Northwest National Laboratory - Richland, WA June 2013 to August 2013 In a Linux environment I improved the performance of a Python  Array package for running on supercomputers by 10-50% and presented my findings to PNNL researchers. Python Computer Science Intern PNNL June 2012 to August 2012 2013  Built up a demo website for a PNNL .NET platform. Education Bachelors of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science Washington State University - Richland, WA August 2010 to May 2014 Associate of Arts Columbia Basin College - Pasco, WA September 2008 to June 2010 Skills C# (2 years), Linux/Unix (2 years), Python (Less than 1 year), Visual Studio (2 years), TFS (2 years), Agile (Less than 1 year), JavaScript (3 years), JQuery (3 years), JQuery UI (3 years), AngularJS (Less than 1 year), Asp.Net (2 years), Asp.Net MVC (2 years), Entity Framework (2 years), Ajax (3 years), Web Development (3 years), Bootstrap (1 year), Advanced SQL Server (3 years), Oracle (1 year), Database Development (3 years), SSIS (1 year), SSRS ReportViewer for MVC (Less than 1 year), Web Security (2 years), Single Page Applications (1 year), User Interface Design (3 years), CSS (3 years), Software Documentation (1 year), SVN (1 year), ColdFusion (2 years), HTML (3 years), Unit Testing (Less than 1 year), MySQL (Less than 1 year) Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/dan-berghofer Awards Special Recognition Award 2015-09 Earned a Special Recognition Award with a large financial bonus for helping develop a new project schedule tracking web app by a seemingly impossible one month deadline that was legally and financially important. Three Star Wards Earned three star awards for excellent performance in various financial systems.