Lead iOS Developer - Contractor Lead iOS <span class="hl">Developer</span> - Contractor Lead iOS Developer New York, NY Swift and Objective C developer with 10+ projects. Extremely passionate about learning, building, fiddling, breaking, creating, and utilizing new technologies.     "Yes, I’ve made a great deal of dough from my fiction, but I never set a single word down on paper with the thought of being paid for it … I have written because it fulfilled me … I did it for the buzz. I did it for the pure joy of the thing. And if you can do it for joy, you can do it forever." — Stephen King    Learn more about my projects on my website: qasimabbas.com    • iOS Development: Core Audio, Core Data, Core Animation, Core Location, Storyboard, CFNetwork,  • Languages: Objective-C, Swift, C, PHP, JavaScript, NodeJS, AngularJS, Python, ReactJS, Ionic, HTML/CSS  • Databases: MySQL, MSSQL, MongoDB  • Development Software: Xcode, Eclipse, Git  • Technologies: RESTful web services  • Application / Web Servers: NodeJS, Apache, IIS, MEAN, LAMP  • Platforms: macOS (Unix), Ubuntu (Linux), Windows,  • Cloud services: Amazon AWS (EC2, S3), Azure Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Lead iOS Developer - Contractor Verizon - Piscataway, NJ February 2019 to Present Lead iOS Developer and Android Developer for B2B business critical applications with 1M+ requests per day. Responsibilities include full range of the development cycle including development, quality assurance testing, deployment to User Acceptance Testing, Production, and signing of Beta OS certifications of the application.     Utilize Sketch for prototyping, Xcode, Swift, and Objective C for iOS Development. Android Studio, Java, and preparing for a move to Kotlin from Java.    Work in an agile environment and interact with several teams for issues and features requested from the business.    Optimize codebase by using MVVM, protocol-oriented programming and reusable UI. Have codebase prepared for language and tool updates. Moving codebase from Objective C to Swift 5 for iOS. Lead iOS Developer - Contractor United Software Consultants Inc. - East Brunswick, NJ September 2018 to Present Responsibilities include entire range of an iOS Application build cycle. Work with small to midsize business clients developing native mobile applications with the iOS platform. This includes interacting with the client from the initial pre-planning and research, feasibility assessment, prototyping, and building the App to using the best application development methodology, and QA testing and maintenance. Project developed and managed in an Agile structure.    Creating an iOS application that handles DNS queries using Swift and CFNetwork to check statuses and health for administrative services and applications. iLab Assistant Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey - Piscataway, NJ September 2016 to December 2018 Administrating various Centos7 machines for 1000+ Computers Science students at RutgersUniversity. Guide 100+ students per week for the Computer Science Department for DataStructures, Computer Architecture, Systems Programming and various other courses Software Instructor (iOS, Java, Python) Steam Works Studio - Warren County, NJ February 2018 to May 2018 I taught students ranging from 4th grade to 8th-grade iOS Development, Java, and Python. As an instructor of this newly opened branch at SteamWorksStudion in Warren, I had to first go for training on the curriculum that needed to be taught briefly as well as contribute to modifying, and improving them for based off of alternate learning styles and certain teaching techniques for future instructors. Teaching Assistant Rutgers Graduate School of Education - Piscataway, NJ September 2017 to May 2018 Guide classroom development and assist in grading and assessing Data Structures and other various OOP concepts written in Python for 60+ Masters students. Lead instruction during office hours of concepts that were unclear to various students from lecture and assignment instructions.    Class: Python Methodologies for Data Science Lead Mobile Developer iconectiv - Piscataway, NJ May 2016 to June 2017 Hired as an Intern while studying at Rutgers University, iconectiv is a Telcordia Technologies, Inc company., formally known as Bell Communications Research (Bellcore).     Developed libraries on mobile platforms using Swift, Objective, Java, and AngularJS to facilitate faster and more modular application development within the company.     Tasked with presenting top-level executive management with the briefing on latest trends in technologies with the Mobile Development platforms. Full-time internship extended for another term. UNIX System Administrator Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey - Piscataway, NJ May 2016 to August 2016 Administrate and Maintain servers for 1000+ accounts for the Computer Science and MathDepartments at Rutgers University. Education Bachelor's in Computer Science Rutgers University - New Brunswick - New York, NY September 2014 to Present Skills Objective C, Xcode, Swift, C, Android, MVVM, Objective-C, Java Links https://github.com/QasimAbbas https://linkedin.com/in/qasim52 http://qasimabbas.com