DevOps Engineer DevOps Engineer DevOps Engineer - Walmart labs Union City, CA Software/DevOps/Infrastructure Engineer offering around 3 years experience solving complex problems with creative solutions, supporting development and operations environments.    • Perform release activities, stress tests, and cloud migrations on production Linux machines.    • Build Jenkins CI/CD pipeline.    • Worked as part of the Infrastructure team based on Amazon Web Services. Experienced with AWS pieces like EC2, S3, EBS volumes, Cloudwatch metrics. Comfortable with awscli and python's boto library (boto and boto3) to automate day to day AWS transactions like creation of buckets, uploading and downloading s3 objects etc.    • Administered Github Enterprise and CircleCi. Performed minimum downtime upgrades.    • Collected various metrics around these applications like the total number of commits in Github, number of users, number of seats, number of circle builders, jobs in queue etc apart from basic hardware level metrics. I can configure Jenkins too.    • Wrote python scripts to send the collected metrics via statsd to the Datadog (hosted monitoring app) to be able to see it on dashboard.    • Worked in the infrastructure maintained by SaltStack. I wrote salt states for some applications to make them deployable easily on hosts. I am aware of Chef also.    • Wrote automation for taking Github Enterpise daily backups and I also worked to design stategy for resoring from the Circleci and Github Enterprise backups.    • Familiar with general Linux administration commands. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience DevOps Engineer Walmart labs - Sunnyvale, CA May 2017 to Present Sunnyvale, CA May 2017 - till date  Walmart labs is an ecommerce company that serves millions of customers in 28 countries through ecommerce website.    Role: DevOps Engineer  Walmart has its own infrastructure, which is being accessed via an open source tool Oneops based on Chef and Openstack.  Responsibilities:  • Support monthly releases (build and deploy) which include deployment of code in CDN, Akamai netstorage, and the production instances which run on different flavors of linux.  • Write automation( python) to reduce everyday manual work like working on a creating a Self healing tool that can take actions on alerts from various sources like Splunk, Nagios etc.  • Building looper pipeline for some applications to facilitate automatic build and deployment. Looper is an wrapper built on top of Jenkins by Walmart labs. Infrastructure/DevOps Engineer Matterport Inc - Sunnyvale, CA May 2016 to April 2017 Sunnyvale, CA May 2016 - Apr 2017  Matterport is an immersive media technology company that builds 3D media solutions that power industries from real estate to entertainment, and everywhere in between. It has built the first end-to-end media platform that allows users to easily create, modify, navigate, and build on digital representations of real places.    Role: Infrastructure/DevOps Engineer  The AWS based infrastructure was maintained by configuration management tool SaltStack. I was responsible for maintenance of these applications and writing automation in order to minimize day to day work.  Responsibilities:  • End to end maintenance of the third party applications like Github Enterprise, CircleCi (CI tool) and Datadog (monitoting app).  • Wrote automation in python to take everyday github enterprise backups and upload them to AWS S3 bucket.  • Familiarity with software packaging using python setup.py and debian.  • Designing strategy for restoring the applications like Github and CircleCi from the backups  • Collection of important metrics to monitor for CircleCi and Github which can alert before the whole system goes down • Writing salt states for deploying various application from salt master to minions  • Autoscaling CircleCi builders.    ? Master Of Science Graduate School Project:  ? Research and Design on "Online Virtual Fitting Room"    The aim of this project is to create an online virtual trial room that reflects the realistic appearance and behavior of the garment. It should adapt to specific bodies of different persons depending on their body measurements. This will facilitate the shopping experience by letting customers to try-on apparel and/or mix and match accessories without being physically present in the retail shop.  Proposed Technologies:  Microsoft Kinect (motion sensor based technology) Windows SDK, PhoneGap for developing fitting room ui for mobile app, kindo for desktop UI, Spring JAX-RS for REST API, AWS S3 for file storage. Python developer Intern Magnus Technology Solutions Inc January 2016 to April 2016 Developed good understanding of Python, modules and third party libraries. Web application development using Python, Django framework, XML, CSS, HTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Wrote python code to perform some database operations.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Build all database mapping classes using Django models.  • Resolved ongoing problems and accurately documented progress of a project.  • Interacted with AWS services like EC2 instances and S3 buckets using AWS SDK for python - boto3. DevOps Engineer Training/intern Horizon Technologies Inc November 2014 to December 2015 The main idea of the internship was to understand why and how of the automation of operations on service platform. I worked on Chef - a configuration management tool. Used Git as version control system. Store the built artifacts in the artifact (Nexus) repository. I used Splunk as log monitoring tool.  Responsibilities:  • Performed all necessary day-to-day Git support for project, resolved merge conflicts.  • Wrote chef recipes for various package installations, build and deployment.  • Used Jenkins for automating ANT builds and continuous integration.  • Used JIRA as a Change Management/ Work Management/ SCRUM Agile Tool.  • Automation of daily tasks using Shell and Python scripts like cleaning up the space of old log files.  • Deployed application ear/war to Tomcat Application server.  • Helped in developing small web services for monitoring purposes like application health status etc. Jr. Java Developer Infosys Ltd - Pune, Maharashtra September 2013 to June 2014 Pune, India Sep 13 - Jun 14  Infosys Limited is an Indian multinational corporation that provides business consulting, information technology and outsourcing services.  Role: Jr. Java Developer    Responsibilities:  • Interactions with the business team to gather the requirements review the specifications and monitor the work.  • Developed the front-end web presentation layer on Spring MVC framework.  • Used J2EE design patterns like MVC and Singleton to provide a consistent, easily manageable and maintainable application.  • Developed JSP pages to handle client requests and carry out server side processing. Implemented client side validations using JavaScript.  • Developed Servlets, Java beans and Java helper classes responsible for delivering web component.  • Implemented logging using Log4j. Responsible for the co-ordination with the team members and attending meetings.  • Responsible for quality assurance of all web design projects including unit testing and debugging.  • Used JavaScript for client side validations and involved in developing JSPs for developing the view of the application.  • Consumed Web services for retrieving the revenue analysis data.  • Generated User interface screens using JSP, JavaScript, CSS and HTML. Responsible for unit testing and integration testing, bugs fixing, handling change requests.  • Used Ant script for build and deploy process. Deployed the application on Tomcat server.  • Interacting with team members to understand the business domain and helping them for solving the technical problems. M.Tech project August 2012 to September 2013 Team lead    Developed a cross platform mobile application 'BeWell'. User interface was at Mobile and admin UI was through a website. 'BeWell' was a location based hospital search application. It was an implementation of research on Context aware Location Based Services.  • Experience in developing UI using JSP, HTML, CSS, Javascript and jquery.  • Used JQuery and Ajax calls for transmitting Json data objects between frontend and controllers.  • Used Spring 3.2 annotation based framework.  • Knowledge of creating REST APIs using JAX-RS.  • Established Oracle database connectivity. Education Master of Science in Software engineering International Technological University May 2016 Master of Technology in Network Management and Information Security DAVV College, School of Computer Science & IT - Indore, Madhya Pradesh 2014 Bachelor of Technology in Computer Science & engineering Uttaranchal Institute of Technology 2012 Skills CHEF (1 year), PYTHON (1 year), AWS (1 year), BASH (Less than 1 year), ECLIPSE (Less than 1 year) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/suruchi-choudhary-20090a72 Additional Information Technical Skills:  ? Python ?AWS ?Devops ?Chef ?Jenkins ?SDLC ?Agile ?Linux ?JIRA ?Nagios ?Eclipse ?Debugging ? ?Github Enterprise ?Monitoring ?Datadog ?Collectd ?SaltSatck ?CircleCi ?PagerDuty ?Confluence ?AWS ?awscli ?Loggly ? Bash ?Akamai