BUSINESS ANALYST/RPA DEVELOPER (BLUE PRISM) BUSINESS ANALYST/RPA <span class="hl">DEVELOPER</span> (BLUE PRISM) BUSINESS ANALYST/RPA DEVELOPER (BLUE PRISM) - BANK OF AMERICA Morrisville, NC Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience BUSINESS ANALYST/RPA DEVELOPER (BLUE PRISM) BANK OF AMERICA January 2017 to Present • Preparing of Business Requirement Document by means of client interviews. Involved in Inception Phase and prepared Logical Data Models that contains set of diagrams and BRD's (Business Requirement Documents) supporting documents containing the essential business elements, detailed definitions, and descriptions of the relationships.  • Applying business and technical knowledge in assisting end-to-end design requirements for projects involving multiple lines of business.  • Built a PowerPoint presentations that captured the operation's performance, trends, and forecasts each week. The PowerPoint presentation was then distributed companywide each week to display the company's current state.  • Work closely with business partners to ensure requirements and functional designs are translated accurately into working technical designs and that test plans/scripts serve customer needs.  • As an RPA Consultant providing End to End to solution for Business process using Robotic Process Automation.  • Involved in prominent level RPA assessment and Solution designed for a business process.  • Regularly interacted with the core developers to help in fixing the defects in less time.  • Reviewed & fixed Business Process Production issues using Blue Prism  • Involved in managing robot's workloads using Blue Prism Work Queues.  • Worked with the Business Analysts in identifying and defining the requirements.  • Experience in staging and deploying the automation solution into test and live environments.  • Efficiently handled monitoring and troubleshooting the Blue Prism environment through Control room.  • Analyzed the feasibility of existing process suitable for automation  • Participated online meetings to demonstrate the capabilities of RPA for on-going projects and potential clients  • Experienced in building Blue Prism Processes and Business Objects for various business systems  • Worked with mainframe, windows, web application and surface automation  • Implemented Blue Prism User authentication by defining user roles, creating users and setting password policies  • Created, developed and maintained automated MI Reporting of Blue Prism processes in MS Access and Excel, also involved in running this in MS SQL Server using MS Access front-end.  • Experienced in using Blue Prism's Credential Manager for maintaining, securing and retrieving the user credentials  • Exposure to Blue Prism, Single Sign-on implementation using Microsoft Active Directory.  • Created Object Design Instruction for clear understanding of the activities performed during development.  • Made sure every small step is document to remove ambiguity.  • Created reusable automation framework with Meta-Bots and reusable libraries with data externalization for RPA implementation.  • Provided Exception handling at every possible scenario for a robust error-free development.  • Broke down processes into reusable objects using Object Studio and utilized them to build processes in Process Studio efficiently.  • Developed strategic partnerships with the business unit to develop a solid knowledge base of the business line, including the business plan, products and processes. BUSINESS DATA ANALYST/ PYTHON CENTENE HEALTHCARE CORP October 2015 to November 2016 • Worked with the Business unit to define Business requirements and analyze the possible technical solutions.  • Assisted in preparing documentation at each of stage of the requirements phase, which includes deliverables like Business Requirements Documents, Use Cases, Technical Specifications, Functional Design Documents  • Consistently worked with the CM (Content Management) and DA (Data analytics) teams.  • Implemented functionalities from legacy systems into a user experience system.  • Participated in JAD sessions to get a clear understanding of requirements.  • Created UML based Use Case Diagrams and process flow charts.  • Developed Class Diagram, Sequence Diagram and ER Diagram using MS Visio  • Worked with development team to create design documentation related to system specifications including components like, user interfaces, security and control, performance requirements, and data conversion.  • Ensure compliance with operational, Data security and control policies.  • Created test plans and test cases using HP Quality Center  • Participated in Daily Agile/Scrum meetings.  • Reduced the Prescription Processing Time from 2 days to the same day.  • Reduced outbound calls to Health Insurance by integrating with the New Eligibility Application thereby getting patient's eligibility details instantly.  • Collaborated with McKesson/External dispensing Pharmacies to set up Electronic Prescription transfers which reduced the Manual Faxing Claims by 20% and Inbound Calls from Physician's Office by 10%.  • Actively involved in formulating a new Process for the Prescription Processing Life Cycle reducing the whole turnaround time from 10 to 5 business days.  • Enhanced Non-Dispensing Pharmacy Call center application and reduced the IVR rejects from 70% to 10% by identifying and Fixing the Data discrepancies in File transfer process.  • Coordinated with Clients / PMO Teams during Project Initiations, Sizing, Defining Timelines and Delivery Dates  • Supported the testing team in tracing the requirements from Requirement Traceability Matrix and involved in the User Acceptance Testing.  • Expertise in building tables, writing SQL statements/queries, stored procedures and views using company defined best practices for security and efficiency.  • Develop and implement data collection systems and other strategies that optimize statistical efficiency and data quality.  • Tracked stories in JIRA for impediments and dependencies and worked with Scrum Master to ensure their resolution so project timelines and deliverables are not impacted.  • Developed and maintained SQL queries from scratch using SQL Assistant to pull data for ad hockreports. The SQL queries were used to build reports for executive reports. The reports included find missing checks and missing claims which saved the company millions. BUSINESS DATA ANALYST AMAZON - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2014 to July 2015 • Conducted GAP Analysis, SWOT Analysis, Cost Benefit Analysis, Risk Analysis and Impact Analysis.  • Involved in gathering, analyzing and documenting business and technical requirements. Analyzed project requirements to discover gaps, provide technical and functional solutions.  • Worked closely with BAs to gather and provide specific and crucial information through data mining using advanced SQL queries, OLAP functions etc.  • Discovered Data Lineage and read application material to understand workflows and complexity. Mined data from numerous source systems.  • Collected SQL queries and re-wrote them as necessary for pattern recognition and generation for events.  • Conducted workshops for user acceptance testing, training and support. Created Pivot tables in Microsoft excel for further analysis.  • Developed user test cases and validated test results during user acceptance testing (UAT).  • Created detailed documentation to explain the results achieved after performing validation.  • Performed data cleansing by analyzing and eliminating duplicate and inaccurate data.  • Gathered Tracking & Data requirements for respective applications & features and worked with the BI team to ensure the delivery of tags and data reports.  • Identified internal and external system requirements, design and configuration set-up, also created user documentation and co-ordinate training sessions.  • Dealing with the supply chain and logistics department JR. BUSINESS ANALYST/ SAP MM CONSULTANT RELIANCE INDUSTRIES May 2013 to June 2015 • Did gap analysis along with collection of Master Data in SAP templates. Preparation of BBPdocuments.  • Crafting of Business Blue Prints, Process documents and User Training manuals.  • Configuration of MM Organizational unit and assignment to overall structure.  • Creation of Master data for Material master, Vendor master and Purchasing Info Records.  • Customization of Price Determination Process.  • Customization of Stock Transport Orders with SD integration.  • Configuration of Release Procedures of PR and PO.  • Configuration of Various Document types, Number range for Purchasing Requisitions, Requestfor Quotation, Purchase Order, Material Master etc. Education Masters in Management Information systems University of Illinois - Gold, Illinois, US Robotic Surgery University of Illinois Skills SQL (3 years), EXCEL (2 years), TESTING (2 years), ACCESS (1 year), DATABASE (1 year) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Methodologies Waterfall, Agile-Scrum.  Requirements Management JIRA, Team Foundation Server (TFS), HP ALM-QC.  Database MS Access, MS SQL, SQL Server, Oracle 11g.  MS Office Tools Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Visio, Project, SharePoint.  Programming & Scripting Python, JavaScript, PHP, SQL.  Business Modelling tools MS Visio, Rational Rose,Bizagi  Modelling tools UML, MS Visio Version Control, MS Visual Source Safe(VSS)  Testing Tools HP Quality Center, JIRA, Load Runner.  Operating Systems Microsoft Windows /Xp/ vista/7/8. Linux  Domains Banking, Retails, Insurance  Web services AWS, Amazon S3, Google cloud platform.  Concepts Business Intelligence, Data Mining, Data warehousing  Software Tableau, SAS Enterprise e-miner, crystal reports, Hadoop