Applications Operations Analyst Applications Operations Analyst Software Engineer Rochester, NY https://github.com/andipanic Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Applications Operations Analyst Integratouch - Rochester, NY August 2017 to December 2017 Processed subscription billing accounts for SiriusXM. Analyzed the results of invoicing, refunds, and scheduling in a Linux environment. Daily work involved the use perl and python to compare daily differences in financial records. Python Developer Verisys Corporation - South Jordan, UT October 2015 to June 2016 Utilized python and the selenium browser automation package to collect current medical provider licensing and disciplinary action  information for all US state and territory medical boards. Helped create processes and procedures for quality assurance and proper  data collection.  Accomplishments  ? Refactored legacy code and updated form based frontends utilizing Django 1.9.  ? Helped create and maintain approximately 800 bots in a web scraping botnet.  ? Trained 6 Ruby team members to use Python and Selenium.  ? Added data sanitization regular expressions and AJAX error handling to forms. Network Operations Center Engineer Proofpoint, Inc - Draper, UT September 2014 to September 2015 Worked with remote team members to monitor and maintain more than 18,000 servers and 280 network devices across 8 international  data centers. Adhered to troubleshooting and escalation procedures as defined by the Operations department.  Accomplishments  ? Automated JIRA processes using python and bash scripts.  ? Created a script to identify and create over 300 JIRA tickets for hardware issues in a night.  ? Streamlined reports using scripts for data gathering and organization. Proofpoint Technical Support Engineer Sutherland Global Services - Rochester, NY May 2013 to September 2014 Provided technical support for CentOS based mail filter agents running various versions of Proofpoint Protection Server software.  Accepted additional projects for creating processes and procedures to improve the efficiency of the program.  Accomplishments  ? Consistent case closing rate of over 136% of goal.  ? Created processes and procedures for training. Stubhub Customer Service Representative Sutherland Global Services - Rochester, NY August 2012 to May 2013 Provided top notch customer support for individuals attending events of all kinds. Day to day tasks included helping to answer  customer questions, de-escalating dissatisfied customers, and redirecting calls to the proper department.  Accomplishments  ? Created a web application for checklist reminders and note taking. Education Music Production and Performance Monroe Community College - Rochester, NY January 2008 to December 2009 Roberts Wesleyan College - Rochester, NY August 2006 to December 2007 Skills Python (5 years), Javascript (5 years), Linux (10+ years), System Analyst, Production Support (3 years), Bash (8 years), Perl (5 years), HTML 5 (4 years), CSS3 (3 years), MySQL (4 years), JIRA (5 years), Apache (5 years) Links https://github.com/andipanic Additional Information ? Quickly learn and master new technologies; successful working in both team and self-directed settings.  ? Experience writing and refactoring legacy code in a fast paced environment.  ? Skilled at implementing scrum stories in a timely manner to address new features.  ? Experienced in object-oriented programming; developing, testing and debugging code.    TECHNICAL TOOLS  Bash, Perl, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, PHP, Python, Ruby, Java, C/C++, AWK, Sed, Django, Selenium, React, Firebase, MySQL,  MariaDB, PostgreSQL, Redis, MongoDB, Vim, Tmux/Screen, JIRA, Sendmail, Nginx, Apache, Linux