Project - Personal Assistant Project - Personal Assistant Personal Assistant Work Experience Project - Personal Assistant AWS Cloud March 2018 to April 2018 Developed an intelligent cloud based personal assistant with which you communicate using your voice or via text. It can help  you with daily tasks like searching for restaurants, setting reminders updating you about your friend's activities through text  and emails. It monitors your social media activity and feeds to make your personalized suggestions. Like suggesting a restaurant which has been posted frequently by your friends.  • Integrated various AWS service like Lambda, SNS, SQS, Lex, Cognito, DynamoDB, Elasticsearch, S3, API Gateway. Project - Credit card detector. March 2018 to April 2018 Developed a revolutionary model for first cleaning and then detecting outliers in datasets using pySpark's various libraries  like StringIndexer, OneHotEncoding, VectorAssembler, Principal Component Analysis, K-Means.  • Implemented multiple data clustering algorithm from which identified the outliers and then analysed the outliers on various  datasets. Best results were obtained while identifying fraud on a credit card usage dataset. Project - Election Predictions November 2017 to December 2017 • Implemented Supervised Learning Algorithms from scratch on Federal Election Commission data to determine whether a candidate wins an election or not. Algorithms include:  o Single Layer Perceptron and Multi-Layer Perceptron. Achieved an accuracy of 98%.  o KNN, Decision Tree (ID3). Achieved an accuracy of 97%. Project - Pacman Game, Artificial Intelligence ( Python) October 2017 to November 2017 the Pacman game using  • Informed search strategies (Hill Climber and Genetic Algorithms) and Uninformed search strategies (BFS, DFS and A*).  • Monte Carlo Tree Search (MCTS) algorithm along with heuristic enhancement.  RELEVENT COURSEWORK  Artificial Intelligence, Design and Analysis of algorithm, Cloud Computing, Big Data, Python for Data Science, Information Visualization Full Stack Developer Fiserv February 2015 to June 2017 Primary Full stack developer with full ownership of developing a component using Spring MVC framework, of a Reconciliation  tool, which is currently being used by more than 312 financial firms in USA and Europe combined. With banks like Bank of America, TD Bank, JP Morgan Chase, HSBC, Barclays being some of the biggest and oldest clients.  • Architected and developed 10+ enhancements for the product both on the frontend and backend, amounting to more than  30,000 lines of code displaying proficiency in jQuery, JavaScript, CSS, AJAX, Java and ExtJS, PL/SQL.  • Collaborated with the business analyst for designing and implementing the database for two new releases supporting a new  feature, on three different databases: Oracle, SQLServer, Sybase  • Solved over 30+ client's cases while working as part of 3rd tier support team showcasing immense debugging and analytical  skills. Won several major honours for this.  • Showcased extreme robustness in coding while working on product level customization and features for clients including  performance optimizations, customized reporting and widgets as product supported 18 different environments.  • Complied with Agile development model while working on both the releases. Took various roles as scrum master, CAR- coordinator, CC Auditor throughout the releases.  ACADEMIC PROJECT Full Stack Developer Fiserv February 2015 to June 2017 February 2015 to June 2017  Primary Full stack developer with full ownership of developing a component using Spring MVC framework, of a Reconciliation  tool, which is currently being used by more than 312 financial firms in USA and Europe combined. With banks like Bank of America, TD Bank, JP Morgan Chase, HSBC, Barclays being some of the biggest and oldest clients.  • Architected and developed 10+ enhancements for the product both on the frontend and backend, amounting to more than  30,000 lines of code displaying proficiency in jQuery, JavaScript, CSS, AJAX, Java and ExtJS, PL/SQL.  • Collaborated with the business analyst for designing and implementing the database for two new releases supporting a new  feature, on three different databases: Oracle, SQLServer, Sybase  • Solved over 30+ client's cases while working as part of 3rd tier support team showcasing immense debugging and analytical  skills. Won several major honours for this.  • Showcased extreme robustness in coding while working on product level customization and features for clients including  performance optimizations, customized reporting and widgets as product supported 18 different environments.  • Complied with Agile development model while working on both the releases. Took various roles as scrum master, CAR- coordinator, CC Auditor throughout the releases.  ACADEMIC PROJECT Education Master of Science in Computer Science and Engineering in Computer Science and Engineering New York University September 2017 to May 2019 Bachelor of Technology in Information Technology in Information Technology Uttar Pradesh Technical University September 2010 to May 2014 Skills JAVASCRIPT (2 years), ORACLE (2 years), PL/SQL (2 years), SQL (2 years), JAVA (2 years) Additional Information SKILLS  • Programming Languages: Java, Python, JQuery, pySpark, Spring MVC, Web Services, JSP servlet, JavaScript, PL/SQL  • Server & Tools: Tableau, WebSphere, JBoss, AWS, SVN, Git,  MAJOR HONOURS  • Oracle certified Java Programmer  • Won the 'Shining star' award for my outstanding performance in the department with over 300 employees, in the 1st quarter  of 2016 in Fiserv.  • Won a 'Pat on the Back' award for resolving Bank Of America's show stopper performance issue. Reduced the execution time  of a scheduled job from 17 hours to 25 mins.  • Received 3 'Star of the month' awards in year 2016 for best performance in a team of 36 people.