Java and Oracle ADF Developer Java and Oracle ADF <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java and Oracle ADF Developer Long Beach, CA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java and Oracle ADF Developer MedHealth Morocco/ Medasys France December 2016 to September 2017 • Design of dedicated web platform for health care providers.  • Design and Implementation of the specified faces along with the corresponding Java Beans and controllers.  • Design and implementation of Java framework for mass web data crawling over secured and fully authorized web connection to private online search services.  • Design and implementation of mass data search strategies and methods.  • Specify and Design of custom gamification procedures as new strategies for Health diagnostic and monitoring. (Personal scientific contribution, manuscript in progress)  • Development of the initial software version for further lifecycle phase.  • Performing unit Test and Quality assurance (QA)on the deployed solutions.    * Data source: Private and government Health Care online data search engines providers.    * End Client: Third Party contractor in France.  Private and government Health Care provider (Morocco)    * Programming technologies: Java (HtmlUnit 2.17, JavaSE8).  Google analytics.  Oracle ADF: Faces, (BC4J), Struts, JSF (2.0).  Dev. Environment: Oracle JDeveloper 11.1.1.9    * GitHub URL: Source Code not available for disclosure. Software Engineer and I.T consultant June 2016 to October 2016 • Prepare Full requirements specification and Design of a SAAS solution for analyzing and monitoring the real-time Health and Clinical Trials' data, by upgrading and customizing the open source project (OpenEMR).  • Deployment of the SAAS solutions on the corporate Apache server.  • Implementing the secure connection protocol to the deployed web solutions, including the key signing and certification of the service.  • Development of strategies for activity based budgeting.  • Design of optimization strategies supporting the clinical studies requirement in terms of expenses within the portfolio of the corporate.    * Contract duration: 3 months.    * End Client: Clinical Trials and Health research corporate. (Non-disclosure addendum) Java/ Python Backend Developer (Freelance) Los Angeles, CA February 2016 to May 2016 • Design and full stack development of custom Data Search Engine to collect data from multiple public real estate websites.  • Design and implementation of Java framework for generating bot collectors for mass web data crawling over secured online search engines.  • Development of visual data search contexts and methods. (Java and Python)  • Deployment of the solution as Java standalone software.  • Performed JUnit Test on the deployed solutions.  • Upgrade of the solution based on the QA phase requirements    * Programming technologies: Java (JavaFx, Spring MVC, HtmlUnit 1.12/2.17, Selenium3).  Python2.7/3.4 (Scrapy)    * Data source: Real Estate Online Data search engine provider. (Authentication provided)  * End Client: Private Real Estate corporate (Southern California, Los Angles) Java programmer and Telecom OSS engineer 3GCOM / Ericsson - Rabat, MA May 2013 to March 2014 Telecom OSS Engineering tasks:  ? 3G/SRAN technologies swap.  ? Node-B integration (Ericsson Telecom networks)  ? Networks Statics extraction, analysis and optimization from 3G/LTE networks    Java development tasks:  ? Development of cost/time effective management framework to handle the underlying telecommunication processes on the client's networks.  ? Automatization of the 3G/SRAN swap procedures and Node-B integration procedures by making use of:  ? Python and Perl flexibility in handling procedural bash commands on the host operating system.  ? Java for data extraction and parsing over multi-typed data objects, and also for the implementation of the GUI.    * Involved programming technologies: Java (Swing/AWT, XPath, Sax/Dom), Perl, C  Python (MySQL- python-1.2.4, pyexcelerator-0.6.4) Java Junior programmer Department of Economy and Finance - Rabat, MA May 2009 to December 2009 Design and development of Java standalone solution for automatizing the withholding check procedure:  ? Design and Implementation of CRUD user friendly interface including multiple views, dynamic record preview tables endorsed by mouse/keyboard clique actions customization.  ? Integration of double sided views containing a scanned document preview panel and the Digitalized data inputs.  ? Conception and implementation of Java methods for data extraction and parsing from structured XML datasets  ? Junit test successfully performed on solution  ? Use of Java productivity framework to push the solution to End production.    * Involved programming technologies: Java (Swing, AWT, JSE1.6, SAX, Dom, XPath, JNI)  * Project Sources: Software and data base materials under foreign governmental copyright, granted by the Moroccan department of economy and finance. (Confidential material). Education PHD in Computer Science and Mathematics FACULTY OF SCIENCE RABAT, UNIVERSITE MOHAMMED V - RABAT, MA December 2018 MASTER in Computer Science and Telecommunication FACULTY OF SCIENCE RABAT, UNIVERSITE MOHAMMED V - RABAT, MA July 2012 BS in Mathematics and Computer Science FACULTY OF SCIENCE RABAT, UNIVERSITE MOHAMMED V - RABAT, MA December 2010 Skills AWT (1 year), integration (1 year), INTEGRATOR (1 year), Java (2 years), parsing (1 year) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/adnane-belmamoun-softwareeng https://github.com/AdnaneBelmamoun Certifications/Licenses NIDA Clinical Trials Network certificate of GOOD CLINICAL PRACTICES August 2016 to August 2019 NIDA Clinical Trials Network certificate of GOOD CLINICAL PRACTICES    MODULE: STATUS:  Introduction N/A  Institutional Review Boards Passed  Informed Consent Passed  Confidentiality & Privacy Passed  Participant Safety & Adverse Events Passed  Quality Assurance Passed  The Research Protocol Passed  Documentation & Record-Keeping Passed  Research Misconduct Passed  Roles & Responsibilities Passed  Recruitment & Retention Passed  Investigational New Drugs Passed Additional Information Technical Skills  • Programming languages: (Expert)  ? Java 6/7/8: Core Java Concepts Inheritance, Polymorphism, Abstraction, Encapsulation, Interface, Generic object handling, Input /Output handling, Collections, Multithreading, Exception Handling  * Ability to Implement Advanced Graphical Interface (JavaFX, Swing/ AWT)  * Ability to integrate and re-use new Java frameworks  * Ability to debug any documented pre-written Java code  ? J2EE 6/7: Tomcat7.0/8.0, Servlets 3.0/3.1, JSP 2.2/2.3, JDBC 4.0/4.1, EJB3.0, Frameworks Apache Struts 2, pring3.0 and Spring MVC.    ? Python 2.7/3.6:  ? Web frameworks: Django, Bootstrap, Scrapy, HtmlUnit  ? Data parsing frameworks: Beautiful Soup, PyQuery, lxml, Element Tree.  ? Data Base frameworks: SQLAlchemy, SQLObject, Python DB-API V2  ? GUI frameworks: WxPython, PyGTK, PyQT, Tkinter(3000-py2.4)  ? Computer Vision Frameworks: PIL1.1.7, Pyqtgraph.  ? Productivity frameworks: Java scripting, pywin32, py2exe, py2app, PyInstaller.    • Database Management Systems and languages: (Expert)  ? Oracle (11g, 12c)  ? Oracle SQL Developer  ? Web/App Servers Tomcat, JBoss, WebLogic (11g, 12c)  ? MySQL Community Edition 5.5  ? Database Utilities MySQL Work Bench  ? SQL, PLSQL, MS SQL Server 2008, Triggers, Views, Criteria, and Toad    • Pattern Recognition and machine Learning: (Expert (More than 4 years))    * Design and implementation of multi-layer perceptron's (MLP's) also known as neural networks for patterns recognition in non-linear classification problems such as:  ? Biometric Features detection and recognition (Faces, fingerprints, eyes and even behavior).  ? Optical Characters Recognition (printed and handwritten).    * Design and implementation of machine learning strategies for unsupervised neural networks (MLP's).  * Implementing the latest MLP's technics in the research state of the art.    • Computer Vision Skills:  * Full stack low level 2d and 3D image objects processing (Edge Detection, smoothing, segmentation, clustering, reconstruction, denoising).  * Image and video processing using non-linear MLP's.  * Implementing the latest algorithms in the state of the art.    • Software Forensics Assessment Skills:  * Penetration testing Frameworks: Metasploit on kali 2.0 and backtrack3r2 (3 years)  * Network Mapping tools: Nmap, Stitch (4 years)  * Reverse engineering: decompile, debug, recompile  * Network assessment tool: Openvas3 on Debian 8.  * Exploit implementation languages: Python, C, Curl, Perl.    • Telecommunication Engineering Skills:  * RBS (NodeB) installation, troubleshooting and integration over 3G and LTE telecommunication networks.  * 3G/ LTE technology swap and integration.  * Design and implement automated procedures for Rolling and Sanitizing the network.  * 2G networks Assessment and optimization.  * Designing and implementing automated statistic collecting procedures and network optimization simulations.    • Development Methodologies: AGILE and UML    • Development environment: Oracle JDeveloper 11.1.1.3,  Eclipse IDE's (Juno to Neon3) and NetBeans,  Android Studio, Dreamweaver.    • Testing frameworks: Junit.  • Version Control Systems: SVN, GIT  • 3D Industrial Design tools: Sketchup, Solid works.    • Operating Systems: Linux (Debian, Redhat, Fedora distros)  Extensive knowledge of UNIX command system  Forensic Linux Distros: Backtrack3r2/ kali2.0  AIX (IBM) / Windows    • Less used modular and oriented object languages: C, C++, Perl.  • Back-End web technologies: PHP (6, and7), HTML, JSON, Curl, XML.  • Web Service frameworks: JAX-RS (RESTful), JAX WS (SOAP)    • Additional programming background: (1 to 2years experience)  * VB.Net, ASP.Net, JavaScript, AngularJS, NodeJS, JQuery, CSS  * Development API: Amazon API, PayPal API, Facebook API, Google API  * Search Optimization SEO, SMO, SMM, Google Analytics.  * Mobile App Development on Android studio. (1-year experience)