Python Developer - AI <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> - AI Computer/Software Engineer/ Developer Dearborn Heights, MI COMPUTER ENGINEER  Solutions-focused computer engineer with advanced programming skills ( Python) and experience working on system development and enhancement projects.Additionally, profoundly knowledgeable with Machine Learning Algorithms and Artificial Intelligence. Leverages administrative skills using MS OneNote for Meeting Minutes, Excel, PowerPoint, and Outlook to manage business communications, and speaking engagements. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer - AI Ford Motor Company - Taylor, MI August 2018 to Present • Worked in an Agile environment  • Performed TDD programming using python  • My contribution included working as a backend developer on an AV (Autonomous Vehicle) research project which was based on AI agent architecture module.   • The program was a VCA (Virtual Chaffer Agent)   • Researched machine learning algorithms to make the AV program learn based on customer needs  • Gained sufficient knowledge and worked with git as a version control tool. e-Drive and Software Engineering Intern MERCEDES BENZ RESEARCH/DEVELOPMENT - Redford, MI February 2018 to Present Worked on an android cell-phone app development and unit/module testing project.  Programmed interfaces using JAVA and created a REST & WEB API using python.   Became familiarized with the handling of JSON data and with "git" as a development tool.  Co-implemented a cloud-based server backend development for WEB APIs using Python as a REST API.  Attended and summarized SAE conference related papers. Computer Engineering Lecturer and Researcher Final International University, Kyrenia, TRNC - Adana February 2017 to September 2017 Researched and taught a computer engineering curriculum on C++ object-oriented programming, MATLAB, Deep Learning Neural Network and Data Mining.  Taught and demonstrated key C++ programming language e.g. classes, inheritance, and Polymorphism.   Used Iris database and MATLAB/accompanying tool box to reduce image noise and to enhance face.  Researched the effectiveness of implementing Deep Neural Network to the field of speaker recognition under adverse environment conditions.  Coached students 1-on-1 and in small groups on how to apply learned theories in the workplace. Linux System Engineer and Computer Engineering Lecturer Cukurova University - Adana September 2015 to February 2017 Set up and lectured practical projects in Linux for Security and Bash Scripting to enhance both network security and to achieve higher system flexibility.  Utilized the GITHUB community to test several code penetration testing projects under KALI LINUX and integrated projects with the system’s existing tools.  Improved LINUX operating system for both Client and Server by applying essential command line data processing tools such as SED and AWK. Education Master of Science in computer engineering in computer engineering Cukurova University February 2011 to May 2015 Bachelor in Computer Engineering in cooperation Al-Mamoun Private University - Sunderland September 2005 to June 2010 Skills Bash (2 years), Java (2 years), Linux (2 years), Scripting (2 years), testing (1 year), Information Security (Less than 1 year), Python (2 years), JSON (1 year), REST API (1 year), Android (Less than 1 year), Microsoft Azure (Less than 1 year), PostgresSQL (1 year), Flask Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/dia-abdulkarim/ Additional Information Skills  Linux systems    Penetration testing in LINUX    LINUX Bash scripting    Java Object Oriented Programming    C programming    C++ Programming    MATLAB programming    Python    Computer and Linux Project Coordinator