Software Engineering Co-Op Software Engineering Co-Op Software Engineering Co-Op at Health Care Originals Inc. Rochester, NY To obtain a Cooperative Education position in the development and testing of computing systems and software products during the Summer of 2019 or Spring of 2020. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Engineering Co-Op H - Rochester, NY January 2019 to Present Working on the Mobile and Web Development and the Cloud Services of HCO. Responsible for maintenance of the product and implementation of new features within the Mobile App and the Web Development side. Student Lab Assistant Rohester Institute Of Technology - Rochester, NY August 2018 to January 2019 I was a grader for CSCI-142 which is a JAVA Course. It teaches the very basics of JAVA, from the introduction to the syntax all the way to the use of Data-Structures and implementing different algorithms such as Dijkstra's and Prim's algorithm. It also includes the use of JavaFX.  I will be graded the projects of the students and will be helped the professor during office hours in the Lab. Python Developer Intern SaltyClouds - Austin, TX June 2018 to August 2018 Worked with ISORA, an information security risk and inventory control application. Used JavaScript, HTML and the Django framework, to create an executive summary in ISORA and a heatmap to show the general trend of from the collected data. Worked in the backend where I had to facilitate proper collection of data for frontend developers and for the heatmaps. ML Researcher Rochester Institute of Technology - Rochester, NY May 2018 to June 2018 Assisted to make the classification of disease mutation in the protein genome through an ML approach by plotting the data. DROIDS (Detecting Relative Outlier Impacts in molecular Dynamic Simulation) is a GUI-based pipeline that works with AMBER16, Chimera 1.11 and CPPTRAJ to analyze and visualize comparative protein dynamics on GPU accelerated  Linux graphics workstations. ANDROID PROGRAMMING INTERN TAPPLENT KARNATAKA, INDIA - IN December 2017 to January 2018 Utilized the skills in Android Programming by working on a Specific feature, Conversation, in the main product of the Enterprise Company, Tapplent Inc. Worked on the specific feature of the Tapplent Product called conversations. HEAD OF PROMOTION AND SALES BHUMI KARNATAKA, INDIA - IN November 2014 to April 2016 Oversaw the promotions and the sales for the nationwide event, Nakshatra. Created a proper schedule to streamline the process. Made a record-breaking sale of 30,000 rupees. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science in Mechanics of Programming ROCHESTER INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY Skills Java, Python Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/nikhilraina-info https://github.com/nxr5013