Job Seeker To find a position where I can use my organizational, communication, content development, IT  and Microsoft expertise in a healthy and learning environment. To grow and use the knowledge  of sales and telemarketing for the growth of the company and for my growth within the  company. Work Experience Behance Link 2018 to Present Organized an event with a concept that is completely new in  Dhaka. The whole hype for the event was created solely online on Facebook. My work  included content development, handling logistics, influencing the audience to stay interested and see the organization as a relevant organization, managing groups and pitching and dealing with clients. UI/UX Designer, App Developer and Python programmer Behance Link 2017 to Present Please take a look at my Github and Behance profile profile to see my present work.  Github: https://github.com/tashfeenMustafa  Behance Link: https://www.behance.net/tashfeenc15bc1 Teacher, Researcher and App Developer Behance Link December 2017 to May 2018 The Tech Academy is a social enterprise that teaches children ( ages 8-14)  computer programming and electronics to develop better critical, analytical and problem  solving skills. So far, 150 students have been trained through their curriculum that includes:  Software development via PROCESSING IDE ( An open source programming developed at the  MIT Media Lab) & Hardware Automation, Mechatronics, Devices and Robotics via Arduino  boards. My job included working on their web app, taking classes of kids, making the course  outline, class outline and class challenges, and researching on various topics for projects and clients. Content Executive Chromatic June 2017 to September 2017 Chromatic was a digital  marketing agency. Clients included The Holy Crab, Sushi Tei, Grilled, and other restaurants of the likes. My job was to post daily/weekly contents for Chromatic's clients on their social  media platform and doing online/physical campaigns. Freelance Front End Web Developer 2015 to 2017 My expertise with web development  lie in HTML5, CSS3, Javascript, Wordpress, AngularJS, Bootstrap, Firebase, PHP. I am  constantly learning and expanding my skill sets with new tools and technologies. Currently I  am learning Node.js and Express.js. I also focus on clean and modern designs with appealing and engaging typefaces and smooth interactions. All the websites I build are responsive to all  screen sizes. Project Manager ICT Component at Leaping Boundaries June 2015 to March 2016 a  non-profit project aiming to provide platform for underprivileged girls. Work involves  recruiting volunteers, collaborating with partners for volunteer training, planning and executing different aspects of the project to teach programming to underprivileged girls  following the current trend of #WomenInTech, developing content, user interface, and user  interaction for a web-based interactive learning game for children and managing and developing the organization's website design and development which will include an  e-commerce type auctioning platform, homepage and blog built using HTML, CSS,  WordPress and AngularJS. Engineering Intern ICT Component at Leaping Boundaries October 2015 to February 2016 a digital creative  agency. Work involved making/editing websites for clients using web technologies such as Lead Organizer/Curator of TEDxAIUB AngularJS 2015 to May 2015 2015 .(May 2015 - December 2015) Work involved  problem solving, project management, team management, approaching and handling  sponsors, multitasking, planning, execution, promotion, marketing, recruiting speakers and many other things. As the Lead Organizer of TEDxAIUB 2015, I had experience in many  different aspects of the event, having to manage a whole team of more than 20 people,  approaching and handling multiple sponsors, fast thinking and immediate problem solving  skills.  ? Coordinator for a startup called Codenitto, a non-profit organization teaching computer  science as an extracurricular activity. Work was engage, help and interact with learners with their coding lessons and projects and coordinating an orientation.    Key Skills In Coding:  - Most experience with: ReactJS, Node.js, Python, SQL, C, HTML, CSS, JavaScript,  jQuery, Processing, WordPress, Bootstrap, AngularJS, PHP  - Least experience with: MySQL, Node.js, Express.js.  - Extensive knowledge with APIs.  - GitHub, Bower, NodeJS, npm.    Personal Projects & Professional Experience:  These are a list of personal projects I have kept myself busy with for practice and self  development. These websites/webapps have been completely created by myself with some of the mentioned technologies and programming languages above:    - A website homepage template: http://codepen.io/tashfeenMustafa/full/xGovrz/  - A WikiPedia Search using WikiPedia API to pull in WikiPedia pages:  http://codepen.io/tashfeenMustafa/full/MKmXGX  Built using AngularJS, HTML and Bootstrap  - A Weather App using Open Weather Map API:  http://codepen.io/tashfeenMustafa/full/XmmyZE  - A random quote generator: http://codepen.io/tashfeenMustafa/full/JYYRzK  - Made a microsite for Bangladesh YouthFest while working for WebAble:  youthfest.bbf.digital  - Made a website for a crowd-sourced app for RastaRObosta as a favor for the founders which was pivotal to bringing in 3k+ downloads in less than a month. Unfortunately the website is no more on the internet.  - A redesign for a non-profit organization called Leaping Boundaries:  http://leapingboundaries.org  - Freelancer Account:  http://www.upwork.com/o/profiles/users/_~01bceec4003f5f0dd9/    At the moment, I am working on how to create animations using Processing and data collected from various social media APIs, and how to make web applications with backend using Node.js and  Express.js. Education B.SC in Computer Science Independent University March 2018 to Present B.SC in (Engineering) CSE, Summer Semester American International University 2014 to 2016 Links https://www.behance.net/tashfeenc15bc1