Teaching Assistant, Applied MATLAB programming, Instructor Teaching Assistant, Applied MATLAB programming, Instructor Teaching Assistant, Applied MATLAB programming, Instructor Denver, CO Work Experience Teaching Assistant, Applied MATLAB programming, Instructor Dr. George Edwards March 2018 to May 2018 I was a teacher assistant for MATLAB programming with an application based approach. Teaching Assistant, Digital Design, Instructor Dr. Robert Whitman - Denver, CO September 2017 to November 2017 University. Python Developer and Data Analyst Ayandeh Bank - Tehran, IR 2016 to 2017 Analysis of bank big data transactions from pos systems and customers demographic information to cluster customers based on different features. Clustering would help business intelligence unit for long-term decision making. Java Developer, Developing an ontology based wiki in Iran telecommunication research center - Tehran, IR 2014 to 2016 Design and Implementation of an ontology for company information. This work involved Natural Language Processing techniques like tokenization, pos tagging, and NER to extract entities from raw text and then export it to ontology. It was designed with Protege and implemented with Apache Jena and TDB store. The UI was a web-based Django application. Teaching Assistant, Digital Signal Processing, Instructor Dr. Hossein Sameti September 2014 to November 2014 Sharif University of Technology. .NET Developer Tehran, IR 2013 to 2014 Designing a .NET 4.5 network-based application to connect and monitor a wide variety of IP cameras like RedLeaf, Sony, Panasonic, etc. Adding video manager and control the different camera capabilities in a unified software. Education PhD in Computer Engineering University of Denver - Denver, CO 2017 to Present MSc in Computer Engineering in Computer Engineering Sharif University of Technology 2012 to 2015 BSc in Computer Engineering in Computer Engineering Shahid Beheshti University 2007 to 2012 Skills .NET (1 year), VISUAL STUDIO, PYTHON (2 years), JAVA (2 years), MATLAB (4 years) Links http://github.com/roholazandie Additional Information Computer skills  Programming Python (Tensorflow, Keras, Numpy, Scipy, Pandas, PyMC3, nltk, gensim, spacy, net-  Software workx), MATLAB (Statistics and Machine Learning, Neural Network, Optimization,  Fuzzy Logic, and GA toolboxes), Java (Stanford nlp toolbox, Mallet), C# (.NET  framework 4.5, Async programming, LINQ, WPF, WCF), Apache Jena, Apache Spark,  Apache Kafka  Environment Pycharm, Eclipse, netbeans, Visual Studio  Database Mysql, MongoDB, SQL Server, Elasticsearch