Mobile application developer (hybrid and native) Mobile application <span class="hl">developer</span> (hybrid and native) Mobile application developer (hybrid and native) Omaha, NE Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Mobile application developer (hybrid and native) Worldview LTD - Omaha, NE October 2017 to January 2018 • Lead the team of 7 for the Mobile application development on Xamarin- visual studio, Cross-platform app development tool for Android and IOS  • Designing and developing mobile application for Android/iPhone mobile devices with extensive user interface development.  • Working on a special camera feature in the application  • Using OpenCV camera for auto contour detection and measuring objects  • Camera program is specially designed for medical firm's usage  • Using a reference object on the camera frame, able to detect and measure the wounds and cuts on the body  • Implemented the camera program on python with already saved images  • Decoding the OpenCV-Android program to debug this on android device  • Wrapping the Java-OpenCV code into c# to use in Xamarin. Forms to debug on to IOS devices  • Implementing unique design for portrait and landscape mode.  • Used web views, list views & populated lists to display the lists from database using simple adapters.  • Responsible for consuming the REST services, getting JSON response and parsing them to get the required information.  • Worked on various NDK apps for material design layouts. Full stack web Development Stevens Institute of Technology - Hoboken, NJ August 2017 to December 2017 • Developing a fully working web page with places that can have camping facilities.  • Works similar as Airbnb: Commenting, payment portals, Data management features are also worked out  • Worked with: HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, jQuery, node js, mongo DB, APIs are also used Mobile application developer (Full-time Intern) Prokarma - Omaha, NE July 2017 to October 2017 • Lead the team of 15 for the android development platform and collaborated with the iOS/Android development team to ensure similarity in the development  • Designed and developed mobile application for Android mobile devices with extensive user interface development.  • Implemented unique design for portrait and landscape mode.  • Used web views, list views & populated lists to display the lists from database using simple adapters.  • Responsible for consuming the REST services, getting JSON response and parsing them to get the required information.  • Worked on various NDK apps for material design layouts.  • Integrated location-based services using Google Maps API to display locations of the nearest stores.  • Implemented SQLite databases to monitor shipments.  • Worked on cloud computing and AWS: s3, Route 53, Lambda, etc.  • Implemented customized web view component to load an SWF file and HTML data.  • Implemented the required GUI by making modifications to the xml files.  • Handling XML data using efficient parsing techniques such as DOM parser.  • Work closely with the web application development team to ensure proper integration between mobile application and web application. FULLSTACK WEB DEVELOPER CO-OP UnitedHealth Group - Plainsboro, NJ March 2017 to July 2017 • Designing and developing web applications with extensive user interface development  • Implementing unique designs based on the screen sizes. Extensive usage of HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, DOM manipulations, jQuery, Node JS, etc.  • Collaborating with mobile application development teams and gaining experience with Android/IOS application development platforms  • Experience working with APNS (Apple Push Notification Service) - pop-up alerts, badges, action sheet and integration of various social networking APIs like Facebook, twitter into application.  • Expertise in working with public APIs such as Google Maps, Facebook and FCM. Team lead and Java Coder Stevens Institute of Technology - Hoboken, NJ January 2017 to March 2017 • Took charge of assembling the Arduino Uno R3 Mega 2560, a servo motor and ultrasonic sensor to a breadboard; placing obstacle in the range of the sensor; and calibrating the detection of the obstacle on a screen  • Used the Arduino IDE for coding the program in java and integrating it to the system  • The angle of the obstacle and the distance to the radar is calculated and projected on the screen Python programmer and presenter Stevens Institute of Technology - Hoboken, NJ August 2016 to December 2016 Hoboken, NJ, USA  Project Name: Web Scraping and Cleaning using Python Aug 2016-Dec 2016  Role: Python programmer and presenter  • Held responsibility in scraping the data from 1966 NBA draft to 2014 draft  • Take charge of extracting the data through comma-separated values (CSV) files  • Eliminated unwanted data and managed the plotting of graph SOFTWARE ENGINEERING INTERN NEC-Laboratories - Princeton, NJ April 2016 to December 2016 • Experienced working with OpenCV libraries, python and other Image Processing Tools  • Experienced Working with Docker platform, huge datasets, APIs and machine learning  • Experienced working on the Data Analytics  • Involved in R&D conducted by the firm Team Leader Stevens Institute of Technology - Hoboken, NJ September 2016 to November 2016 • Developed effective and efficient mirror project showing the temperature, time, calendar, and to-do list  • Implemented the project by utilizing Python language  • Held responsibility in assembling and Java programming SQL Developer Cognizant Technological Services - Chennai, Tamil Nadu October 2015 to July 2016 • Plan, design, and implement application database code objects, such as stored procedures and views.  • Build and maintain SQL scripts, indexes, and complex queries for data analysis and extraction.  • Provide database coding to support business applications using Sybase T-SQL.  • Perform quality assurance and testing of SQL server environment.  • Develop new processes to facilitate import and normalization, including data file for counterparties.  • Work with business stakeholders, application developers, and production teams and across functional units to identify business needs and discuss solution options.  • Ensure best practices are applied and integrity of data is maintained through security, documentation, and change management. Team lead January 2016 to May 2016 5. Andhra Pradesh Skill Development Centre • Vijayawada, AP, India  Project Name: Development of Bluetooth Controlled Electronic Home Appliance  Jan 2016-May 2016  Role: Team lead  • Effectively operated the existing Android Automation Circuit and MIT App Inventor tool  • Initiated and tested various simulations to identify the concepts of wireless connectivity, control systems, micro controller working, hosts, and virtual machines  • Utilized the Keil compiler and MIT App Inventor software, as well as the 8081 microcontroller at89c51 controller  • Created an effective cooking device that can be controlled when far away from house java developer internship DELTA Technologies & Management Services - Hyderabad, Telangana January 2015 to September 2015 • Used Agile methodology for developing the application.  • Deployed the application on the JBoss server using ANT tool using struts architecture with the JSP client  • Configured Struts Dyna Action Forms, Message Resources, Action Message, Action Errors, Validation.xml, and validator-rules.xml  • As part of the lifecycle development prepared the class model, sequence model, and flow diagrams by analyzing Use cases using Rational Tools.  • Used Multithreading concepts in application Management for alternate uses and implemented Exception Handling and Errors.  • Reviewing and analyzing data model for developing the Presentation layer and Value Objects.  • Extensive use of Struts Framework for Controller components and view components.  • Involved in writing the exception and validation classes using Struts validation rules.  • Used OR mapping tool Hibernate for the interaction with the database.  • Developed various java objects (POJO) as part of persistence classes for OR mapping.  • Developed tabs with rollover effect using JavaScript plus other effects  • Developed web services using SOAP and WSDL with Axis for Integrating.  • Developed, implemented, and maintained an asynchronous, AJAX based rich client for improved customer experience using XML data and XSLT templates.  • Involved in writing the parsers for parsing and building the XML documents using SAX and DOM Parsers.  • Developed SQL stored procedures and prepared statements for updating and accessing data from the database.  • Developed the Dao's using SQL and Data Source Object.  • Development carried out under Eclipse Integrated Development Environment (IDE). Frontend Programmer Aditya Engineering College November 2014 to December 2014 Surampalem, AP, India  Project Name: Web and Mobile Application for College Notifications  Microsoft Incubation Centre _ Nov 2014-Dec 2014  Role: Frontend Programmer  • Introduced the 'Aditya Connect' application available on Android Play Store and iOS App Store  • Evaluated all student's performance and notified with college news  • Used the Windows server and Hypertext Preprocessor (PHP) for backend functions. Coded on JavaScript  • Hypertext HTML/CSS and Bootstrap used Education Master of Computer and Electrical Engineering in Digital Systems Architecture Stevens Institute of Technology - Hoboken, NJ December 2017 Bachelor of Science in Electrical and Communication Engineering in Electrical and Communication Engineering Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University - Kakinada, Andhra Pradesh 2014 Skills Android (1 year), HTML (1 year), Java (1 year), JavaScript (1 year), SQL (1 year) Additional Information Hardworking, results-driven, and dedicated professional, pursuing a challenging engineering position to proactively utilize knowledge and skills acquired from education. Armed with strong understanding of software development engineering, systems learning methodologies, and information technology. Adept at developing innovative software applications and technologies with applied fundamental principles, architecture, and systems modelling. Recognized for highly analytical and technical skills, excellent team player, and communication capability.    ? Core Competencies  • With 2-3 years of experience as Software Developer, Designing and Development of Native Android Applications for Smartphone and Tablet and on Java based Applications including apprenticeship and internship.  • Experience in developing Android Application using Android Studio, Eclipse IDE, Android SDK, ADT plug-in.  • Very Good understanding of Android Back-end and UI guidelines.  • Proficient in object-oriented concepts and programming languages like Objective-C, Swift.  • Proficient with Python and OpenCV  • Experience in SWIFT to migrate projects from Objective-C to Swift.  • Experience working on HLS Video Streaming  • Chatbot experience design  • Strong skills in SQL development.  • Knowledge to build apps with Xamarin Studio and Cordova.  • Experienced Working on Image Processing and OpenCV  • Experience in working on web development technologies, using the hypertext languages and other back-end coding.  • Proficient with UI/UX development and other front-end technologies.  • Proficiency of web includes: HTML5, CSS, Bootstrap, Javascript -jQuery, NodeJS.  • Experience as a Scrum Core Team Member in the internal process using Scrum Agile methodology and Sprint using the Rally tool where the programmers, testers and the product owners discuss to deliver value of the project at the end of each sprint session.  • Proficient with core concepts of Android like Activities, Services, Content Providers, and Broadcast Receivers.  • Experience on Android UI components such as List view, Customized List view, Menus, Compound Buttons, Alert Dialog boxes, Action bars, and Spinners for various layouts in Application development.  • Experience with cloud computing and worked and previous work experience with Amazon Web Services.  • Well versed with concepts of OOPS, MVC and MVP design patterns.  • Excellent knowledge in implementing Material Design and optimizing techniques using Recycler View, Card View, and View Pager.  • Experience working with APNS (Apple Push Notification Service) - pop-up alerts, badges, action sheet and integration of various social networking APIs like Facebook, twitter into application.  • Highly knowledgeable in various programming language and platforms, as wells as web-based programs and traditional programs, such as Java and C++  • Familiarity with software development methodologies and processes, which included the prototyping, iterative, waterfall, incremental and spiral development, and types of agile methodologies  • Efficiently skilled at researching, designing, developing, and test operating systems-level software, as well as network application software in diverse industries, including medical, communications, business, and general computing applications  • Adeptness in providing specifications, identifying operational feasibility, writing code, and documenting functionality  • Armed with strong understanding of data structures, algorithms, and software design patterns, as well as creating flow charts, SQL Queries, and documenting application process for future maintenance and upgrades    Operating Systems: Windows (10/8.1), Ubuntu, Mac.  IOS Applications: Objective-C, Swift (all versions), Cocoa2D and Cocoa development for iPhone and iPad devices in XCode Interface builder, Xamarin, -UIKit, Cocoa touch, Core Data.  Android Tools: OpenGL-ES, Phone Gap, Apache Cordova, layout design, fragments, multi-threading, NDK sensors, Beacons. OpenGL-ES, layout design, fragments, Xamarin, multi-threading, lifecycle, NDK sensors, multi-touch, profiling NFC, Beacons, Retrofit.  Xamarin Tools: Xamarin. Forms, Xamarin. Android / IOS, Visual Studio, AXML, multi-threading, Java Wrapping  Scripting languages: HTML, DHTML, XML, JavaScript, JSON, AXML, XSL, XSLT, JSP, JSTL, Maven3.0, Ant 1.5/1.7, AJAX, jQuery.  Databases: Oracle, MySQL, MSSQL Server, MongoDB, SQLLite3.  IDE: Android Studio, Eclipse, IntelliJ, Net Beans, Visual Studio (Xamarin Studio).  Version controls: SVM, GitHub, GUI.