Graduate Research Assistant Graduate Research Assistant Graduate Research Assistant - University of Tennessee at Chattanooga (UTC) Chattanooga, TN I am a machine learning graduate research assistant with strong background in computer science and a good experience in software engineering Work Experience Graduate Research Assistant University of Tennessee at Chattanooga (UTC) - Chattanooga, TN January 2019 to Present Using machine learning to investigate the link between response-time on mobile apps and brain health. Data Engineer and Development Team leader Dot Energy Consulting - Khartoum, SD November 2017 to December 2018 Built a prediction system for the network faults from the old alarms combining supervised and unsupervised learning methods (data cleansing, stemming, tokenization, clustering and building the final learning model) ? Built a new unified interface between different systems for Zain Telecom company (Zain Group).  ? Information extraction from the old data (free texts) into a new interface using NLP/machine learning tools such as NLTK.  ? Building containerized end to end data pipelines.  ? Hired and trained the new development team (three new developers). Cofounder & Part time Full-Stack Python Engineer MobiGo October 2016 to November 2017 Led a team of 3 engineers on the technical implementation of Pocket, a payment mobile/web application which enables service payment and money transfer.  ? Designed the system architecture on AWS and the RESTful APIs for mobile and web interfaces using Django.  ? Led the testing phase with the authorities, resulting in a launch ready product. Principal Android Developer My Small Community - Dubai, AE August 2016 to November 2017 Added 50% of the current features of the app and rewrote the entire legacy code into a more maintainable version.  ? Fixed the bugs, wrote automated tests and Python scripts for content testing.  ? Added a caching layer to the system and optimized the code for poor resourced devices. Teaching Assistant | Software Engineering & Machine Learning University of Khartoum October 2015 to August 2016 Conducted tutorials, prepared lab materials and supervised student projects in the following courses: Algorithms and Data  Structures, Software Development, Artificial Neural Networks, and Software Engineering Data Analysis Engineer University of Khartoum March 2016 to July 2016 Built a reporting tool for Sudani (the #2 largest telecommunications company in Sudan) sales distribution app.  ? Wrote the tool in SQL and scikit-learn with 2 engineers to support 5 types of reports: sales, distributions of points of sales, calculating the critical POS, the neat income and the network coverage percentage per area.  ? Deployed the tool allowed the company to monitor their status between the competitors in term of sales, market share and network coverage, automated over 80% of the manual reporting.  ? Collaborated with the core system designer (a third party contractor) to integrate the tool into the live system. Cofounder and Backend Developer Semicolon ICT March 2014 to March 2014 - Mar 2106 ? Implemented various back end projects using: PHP (with CodeIgniter framework), JavaScript, HTML and CSS, database management (MySQl, PostGresql) ? participated in business development unit by introducing new project ideas and improving models for the exciting ones. MOOCS 2013 to 2013 It is a traditional Sudanese game that was brought into the world of computer games..  ? Designed Developed the end-to-end game using Java/Swing.  ? Wrote 3 different levels of difficulty (Legal, Algorithmic and Intelligent). Docam - Control Home by Face Recognition 2013 to 2013 built a system that controls home entrance by face recognition.  ? Built the backend part in C++/OpenCV and deployed it in a microcontroller.  ? Designed and developed a mobile application for the owner's phone as the main interface. The owner can also add new authorized persons through the mobile app. Electrical and Electronic Students Exhibition 2013 to 2013 https://www.linkedin.com/in/alnouralharin/ Education MSc. in Computer Science University of Tennessee at Chattanooga - Chattanooga, TN 2019 to Present BSc. in Electronic Systems Software Engineering University of Khartoum 2010 to 2015