Semantic Wiki Developer, Wiki Sysop - Python, PHP, JavaScript Semantic Wiki <span class="hl">Developer</span>, Wiki Sysop - <span class="hl">Python</span>, PHP, JavaScript Software Engineer, Web Development Bellevue, WA Work Experience Semantic Wiki Developer, Wiki Sysop - Python, PHP, JavaScript The Boeing Company - Phantom Works - Bellevue, WA 2007 to 2009 Designed, developmented, coded, administered Wiki for structured collaboration. Created forms for structured input. Automated inclusion of hidden semantic metadata, customized Wiki skin, corrected and improved base wiki code, proposed, coded, and installed extensions and developed semantic queries for constantly updating information. Two applications developed for the Modeling, Simulation, Analysis and Experimentation community across Boeing. One Wiki allows structured collaboration and sharing of information. The second Wiki collects the needs of the community which can be ranked and fed into the Boeing investment process to secure funds for projects.   • Users Groups: Participated in Semantic Media Wiki and Semantic Forms users groups, worked with developers to report and fix bugs, and gave input in design decisions.  • Contract Development: Involved in the requirements, texting and approval of the development by a contractor of extensions for a Rich Text Editor to work in Semantic Form fields.   • Publications: Participating Author – Boeing Technical Excellence Conferences (BTEC) Presentation and Abstract – Semantic Wikis For Capturing Collective Intelligence In a Corporate Environment  • Forum: Prepared material and manned an exhibit representing the MSA&E Community of Interest Collaborative Environment, AskMe and WikiBoK at Northwest Technical Excellence Knowledge Management Forum 2008.  • Applications/Languages Used: MediaWiki including Semantic MediaWiki, Semantic Forms, Semantic Drilldown, FCKeditor, Tag Cloud, and other extensions, Python, PHP, JavaScript, HTML, CSS  • Customer/Peer Feedback: Two Boeing Achievement Awards and One Boeing Accomplishment Award AJAX Web Developer - JavaScript, ASP The Boeing Company - Phantom Works - Bellevue, WA 2005 to 2006 Web Application with AJAX Elements for Collaboration - Boeing Collaborative Document Reviewer (BCDR)  Developed functionality to create and display comments on graphic elements/figures of web viewable documents, allowing comment to be tied to zoomed or panned section of the graphic. Developed an archive function to create standalone web viewable documents with hidden information and embedded dynamic HTML.  • Publications: Participating Author in paper presented at Boeing Technical Excellence Conferences (BTEC) – Ajax Elements of the Boeing Collaborative Document Reviewer  • Applications/Languages Used: Dynamic HTML, JavaScript, ASP, HTML DOM Object, XML Http Request, XHTML, XPath, and IGViewer (Boeing Application)  • Customer/Peer Feedback: Boeing Achievement Award Software Engineer - XML Schema - XSLT The Boeing Company - Phantom Works - Bellevue, WA 2004 to 2004 XML Schema Interoperability – Strategic Architecture  Generated and developed XSLT code to translate XML documents using graphical XML mapping tool to map schemas.  • Applications/Languages Used: Map Force, Stylus Studio, and XSLT  • Customer/Peer Feedback: Received Peer Recognition XML Web Developer - Java The Boeing Company - Phantom Works - Bellevue, WA 2003 to 2004 Semantic Processing, Filtering, Ontologies in Pub/Sub Environment – Total Domain   Researched semantic processing using ontologies for filtering messages in Pub/Sub environment.   Developed ontology driven customizable Editor (with XML template) for creating Subscriptions (Filters). It functioned on different pub/sub systems and ontologies without reprogramming, providing customization of terminology and level of user expertise.  • Industry Influence: Identified compatibility issues between the currently available ontology editors and between editors and reasoners and influenced tool providers to resolve compatibility issues.   • Inventions: Co-Inventor – Submitted invention disclosure for customizable interface for semantic filtering.  • Publications: Co-Author – Paper presented at International Semantic Web Conference ISWC2003 A Semantic Infosphere.  • Applications/Languages Used: XML Languages/Schemas: RDF, RDF Scheme, and OWL. Ontologies Builders/Editors: OilEd, Protégé, Construct. Ontology Server: Cerebra Server. Database Query Language: XQuery. Development Language: Java. Software Engineer - Data Modeler The Boeing Company - Phantom Works - Bellevue, WA 2003 to 2003 Modeling, Data Dictionary and Logical Data Modeling – FCS, US Air Force – 2003  Designed and created integrated data dictionary identifying significant terminology representing concepts and concept relationships, and prototype logical data model for the Army’s Future Concept Systems.  • Applications/Languages Used: Lexer, a Boeing developed dictionary editor, evaluator, and database lexicography tool, to create and analyze the data dictionary. Indexer, a Boeing developed tool for document/data Mining and knowledge acquisition and analysis able to examine over 100 documents at one time. Software Engineer - Knowledge Management - JavaScript, Perl The Boeing Company - Phantom Works - Bellevue, WA 2002 to 2002 Knowledge Management Technologies – 2002  Updated and added functionality to an application that maps text-to-concepts in a controlled vocabulary/ontology. Delivered with the NLP Topic Classifier as a web service for documents indexed within a web portal. Developed a prototype that demonstrated retrieval of documents tagged with metadata from concepts in a controlled vocabulary.  • Applications/Languages Used: AeroNet, NLP Topic Classifier, LISP, HTML, JavaScript, and Perl. Web Developer - JavaScript and Perl The Boeing Company - Phantom Works - Bellevue, WA 2001 to 2001 Thesaurus Browser, Technology Bookshelf (TBS) – 2001  Developed web application for the selection of appropriate metadata to associate with documents for easy retrieval from an electronic Bookshelf. It included server side application that used data mining and knowledge engineering applications to suggest metadata from ontology of controlled terms by analysis of the document text.  • Applications/Languages Used: Boeing developed Classifier, Auto-Tagger, Text-to-Concepts application, Fan_Out application, AeroNet Ontology, Dynamic HTML, JavaScript, and Perl. Software Engineering - Metadata Mapping The Boeing Company - Phantom Works - Bellevue, WA 2000 to 2001 Metadata Mapping and Retrieval of Structured Data   Researched and prototyped Glossaries and Data Dictionaries mapping to controlled vocabulary to provide retrieval with familiar terminology. Prototyped retrieval of structured data using metadata by adapting and integrating tools from data mining and ontology tools previously used for retrieval of documents.   • Publications: Co-Author – RDF Representation of Metadata for Semantic Integration of Corporate Information Resources. World Wide Web WWW 2002 International Workshop on Real World Applications of RDF and Semantic Web Applications  • Applications/Languages Used: Boeing developed Classifier, Auto-Tagger, Text-to-Concepts application, Fan_Out application, AeroNet Ontology, Dynamic HTML, JavaScript, and Perl. Education MS in Computer, Information, and Control Engineering University of Michigan - Ann Arbor, MI January 1973 to January 1976 BA in Music, with distinction, Minor in Mathematics University of Redlands - Redlands, CA January 1969 to January 1973 Skills JavaScript, CSS, DHTML, Ajax, DOM Object, Perl, PHP, Python, ASP, Java, Prolog, C, C++ Additional Information CORE COMPETENCIES    • Apply new technology to business issues   • Implement prototype and production applications  • Research and investigate new technology  • Semantic Wiki development and administration  • Web AJAX Applications  • Modeling, Knowledge Management and Data Mining    SKILLS    PROGRAMMING: JavaScript, CSS, DHTML, Ajax, DOM Object, Perl, PHP, Python, ASP, Java, Prolog, C, C++  WIKI: MediaWiki, Semantic MediaWiki, Semantic Forms, Special Pages, Magic words, and extensions.  XML: XML, RDF, OWL, XPath, XQuery, XSLT, XML Spy, MapForce, Stylus Studio, XML Http Request  DATABASE: MySQL, Oracle, DB2, TERADATA, SQL