Senior Embedded engineer (C, C++, Java) Senior Embedded engineer (C, C++, Java) Senior Embedded engineer (C, C++, Java) - Comcast Austin, TX • 5+ years of experience in product development and product management on networking, security and embedded products.  • Highly skilled in programming C and C++.  • Have sound Knowledge in Audio domain.  • Designed and implemented automation scripts for audio specific test cases.  • Involved in Development, Unit testing, Regression testing.  • Involved in fixing Audio related issues.  • Assure system verification (System testing/Product testing) on Hyperlite/ASA and/or hardware changes before releasing.  • Wrote test programs, validation and testing.  • Experienced in Android Framework, Android Interfaces (Audio, Automotive, sensors) and Android Source Building with Custom Library modules.  • Integrated Low level modules at kernel level in android devices source code.  • Good understanding and hands on experience in Android source building with custom modules integration.  • Worked on different C based compilers and libraries.  • Gained experience in using the defect flow model, configuration tools and inspection method of reviews.  • Real time firmware design and development on resource constrained small-embedded systems running without OS as well as mid-range systems running pre-emptive multitasking RTOS kernels.  • Strong knowledge of OS internals, data structure.  • Trained on Device Driver Development. Work Experience Senior Embedded engineer (C, C++, Java) Comcast August 2017 to Present • Worked on android based home security devices.  • triaging and fixing issues on firmware and AOSP.  • Involved porting AOSP changes from KitKat to Nougat.  • Used maven build system for firmware and AOSP.  • Involved in Qualcomm Snapdragon APQ8009 IOE bring up.  • Interacting with on-shore and off-shore development teams. Software Engineer II (C, C++, Java) Qualcomm Technologies May 2017 to August 2017 • Involved in validating and implementation the MirrorLink 1.0 on android platform.  • Worked with different automotive clients (QNX, Linux, Qualcomm snapdragon) to validate MirrorLink with Android phone (server).  • Used Connected Car Consortium (CCC) certified CTS test system for MirrorLink testing.  • Thorough understanding of VNC, UPnP, HTTP, TCP, UDP, USB CDC/NCM protocols.  • Worked on Miracast porting from android N to O build.  • Involved in functional testing using Gtest frame work on android O. Embedded Android Software Developer (C, C++, Java, Python) Panasonic Automotive Systems Company of America November 2016 to May 2017 The goal of this project is to design and implement of audio specific changes to android based automotive project.  • Android Audio platform bring up.  • Analyzed and provide fix for Audio Multimedia Framework.  • Worked on HAL layer changes for suspend/resume in automotive.  • Modified the vendor HAL plugin with respected DIRANA driver.  • Building the android source code and flashing.  • Socket Communication Module to send the messages to upper layers with IPC.  • Designed and implemented automation scripts for audio specific test cases.  • Involved in fixing Audio related issues.  • Interacting with on-shore and off-shore development teams for requirements gatherings.  • Involved in Bluetooth related fixes in android platform. Member of Technical Staff CISCO - Chennai, Tamil Nadu December 2014 to September 2015 • Drive process driven product designs relative to end of line programming and test.  • Assure system verification (System testing/Product testing) on Hyperlite/ASA and/or hardware changes before releasing.  • Wrote test programs, validation and testing.  • Worked with the design of the project.  • Involved in the static analysis of the implemented code.  • Involved in design & development of I2C functions.  • Responsible for designing software spec of bypass relay future in Hyperlite.  • Design and implementation of hardware bypass relay on Hyperlite firewall.  • Implemented the CLI's with parser mechanism for bypass relay.  • Involved in Unit testing, Regression testing.  • Problem diagnosis and resolution the issues as a team player and independently. Member of Technical Staff CISCO - Chennai, Tamil Nadu February 2014 to December 2014 • Involved in design and implementation of snmp based on Netsnmp module on Security Service Platform (SSP). This project deals with developing the NetSnmp MIB's with all supported scalar objects, tabular objects and traps using mib2c compiler and tasted with ASA firewall.  • Customer requirement Study.  • Used Mib2c to generate Netsnmp comde.  • Expertise in Netsnmp and SR SNMP agent.  • Developed and implemented algorithms for Optimizing performance issues  • Responsible for designing the logic and implementing the NetSNMP Get and  • GetNext logic for tables and scalars.  • Involved in Development, Unit testing, Regression testing. Software Programmer HP - Bengaluru, Karnataka August 2012 to February 2014 • The ISO/ANSI C standard defines a library of functions, as well as related types and macros, to be provided with any implementation of ANSI C.  • This project deals with the development & maintenance of OpenVMS utilities. OpenVMS is a multi-user, multiprocessing virtual memory-based operating system (OS) designed for use in time sharing, batch processing, real-time (where process priorities can be set higher than OS kernel jobs), and transaction processing.  • It is known for its consistency, virus free operation and UP time. We can run more than one thing on the system like Application server, Web server, Mail server, Fileserver. It offers high system availability through clustering, or the ability to distribute the system over multiple physical machines  • Root cause the problem in the CRTL for the issue reported by the customer.  • Developed and implemented algorithms for Optimizing library functions.  • Worked with the design of the project.  • Involved in Bug fixing and Enhancement work.  • Involved in Development, Unit testing, Regression testing. Embedded Electronic trainee CDAC - Bengaluru, Karnataka March 2012 to August 2012 • Trained on Device Driver Development, Embedded programing and RTOS internals.  • Played with OS internals and creating system calls.  • Gained knowledge on Networking Design and Basics of Program Writing & Coding Practices, Overview of C Programming language, Embedding Assembly code in C program, Debugging and Optimization of C programs, Handling portability is- sues in C, Hardware, Time, Space and Power aware Programming, Introduction to Data Structures, Algorithms and Abstract Data Types, Complexity of Algorithms, Linked Lists, Stacks, Queues, Searching and Sorting Algorithms, Trees.  • OSI Reference Model and TCP/IP Protocol Suite, LAN Protocol Suite, Application Layer Protocols, Socket Programming, Wireless LAN: IEEE 802.11, Bluetooth, RFID, and Cellular Communication: 2G & 3G.  • Introduction to 8-bit Microcontrollers, RISC / CISC and Harvard / Princeton, Architectures, Embedded Memory, Timers / Counters, UART, SPI, PWM, WDT, Input Capture, Output Compare Modes, I2C, CAN, LED, Switches, ADC, DAC, LCD, RTC, Emerging Bus Standards (USB, PCI), Programming in Assembly and Embedded C. Education Master of Science in Computer Science in Computer Architecture Silicon Valley University - San Jose, CA PG Diploma in Embedded Systems Designing CDAC-ACTS - Bengaluru, Karnataka Analog and Digital Communications Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University - Hyderabad, Telangana Skills android (1 year), automotive (Less than 1 year), C (5 years), Git (3 years), Java (1 year), C++ (5 years) Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/dinesh-reddy-739b41a9 Additional Information Technical Skills:  • Programming C, C++ and java.  • Version control systems like SVN, Git, Perforce.  • Operating system fundamentals (thorough knowledge on Linux/Android OS architectures).  • Android Interfaces (Audio, Automotive, sensors)  • Audio Multimedia Framework