Object Recognition In Video - Computer Vision (Matlab) Object Recognition In Video - Computer Vision (Matlab) San Lorenzo, CA To find an entry-level full-stack/back-end software engineer internship /full-time position. Can start work as soon as possible, no visa restriction.? Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Object Recognition In Video - Computer Vision (Matlab) April 2018 to June 2018 • ? Implement a program by using matlab to find traces of the same item in 6000 different video frames and  • select five most similar frames.  • ? Build the Visualizing the vocabulary by using K-means method to scan more than 600 frames.  • ? Used SIFT descriptor to match each frames to test if the items are the same. Loan Prediction - Machine Learning ( Python, scikit-learn) January 2018 to March 2018 • ? Built the loan prediction program by applied the scikit-learn library in Python.  • ? Based on the data of known results, predict the probability of repayment of the new lender.  • ? Coordinated the opinions of members and selected the appropriate algorithms such as boosting regressor  • and gradient boosting classifier to process the given data sets. Wordlist Builder Program(Java) September 2017 to December 2017 • ? Designed parser to parse online web page, and collects English words from the web page.  • ? Wrote script to match online texts with English vocab, and calculate word frequency. User-level Thread Library - Operating System (C) September 2017 to December 2017 • ? Implemented a User-level Thread Library by using C. It included the basic builtin commands, input/output redirection methods, pipeline commands and background commands.  • ? Researched the related resources like the GNU C library. Front-End Developer Intern Yimi Technology? - Liuzhou, China December 2016 to January 2017 Pictures Display Website(JavaScript, HTML5, CSS, Node.js, ReactJS, Sqlite3, AJAX, JSON)  • ? Implemented a responsive website layout for the mobile and web version to match the given design.  • ? Set up a server-side server that can handle both static and dynamic queries by Node.js.  • ? Supported website to handle more than 1000 pictures with sqlite3 module(Database).  • ? Used React Component automatic adjustment the produces’ pictures display layout.  • ? Orchestrated the AJAX request and JSON to get the related photos loading quickly.  • ? Manipulated database so users can add or delete self-defined tags to all photos and save updates.  Course Scheduler Program(Java)  • ? Implemented course event and course scheduler to allow user to add and remove courses on internal calendar.  • ? Communicated frequently with Course Scheduler users, and changed the data input interfaces, according to their feedback. Seasonal Items Promoter Costco Wholesale - San Leandro, CA August 2016 to September 2016 Introduces products and its brand to customers, answered them questions and helped them pick the items from totally 18 flavors.  Made food samples and distributed them to customers. Math & Physics Tutor MESA Program in Chabot College, Part-time - Hayward, CA September 2015 to December 2015 Worked with students one on one to support their academic goals.  Worked independently but campus resources to answer questions. Usher/Customer Service Saigon Seafood Restaurant - Newark, CA April 2013 to July 2015 Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science University of California - Davis, CA June 2018 Skills AJAX (Less than 1 year), JSON (Less than 1 year), PYTHON (2 years), FRONT-END (Less than 1 year), Git (2 years), Javascript (Less than 1 year), Java (1 year), c++ (4 years), c (Less than 1 year), HTML (8 years), CSS (2 years), Matlab (4 years), NodeJS (Less than 1 year) Additional Information SKILLS  Front-End HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, Ajax, JSON, React, SVG, Canvas  Back-End Java, Python, C, C++, Node.js, SQLite  Other Skills Photoshop, Illustrator, Lightroom, Latex, Matlab, R, Prolog, Git, npm, Maven