R&D Intern R&amp;D Intern Student Foster City, CA Looking for fulltime SDE/SDET position. Work Experience R&D Intern Findream LLC - Mountain View, CA September 2014 to Present Responsibilities  Full-stack Engineer on web application. Teaching Assistant and Grader Washington University in St. Louis - St. Louis, MO September 2013 to May 2014 Algorithm Implementation WUSTL - St. Louis, MO September 2013 to December 2013 Designed solutions for resolving collisions on hash table by open addressing with double hashing.  Implemented PriorityQueue, Multigraph Data Structure to figure out the shortest path for people’s airline flight plan by given queries.  Game Design: Snake Game. Time Management System, Web development and application WUSTL - St. Louis, MO May 2013 to December 2013 Developed a system that helps managers/workers manage their work time sheet efficiently by calculating working hours and making schedule.  Team leader, focused on web design and development by using HTML, CSS, PHP, Python, mySQL, Javascript, Django, Socket.IO, Google open ID for the back-end and Bootstrap to customize the web pages. SAMSUNG-Bluetape Project, Webpage design WUSTL - St. Louis, MO May 2013 to December 2013 Worked with Samsung on project that aimed at providing a campus-wide platform for information of campus flyers that users can use to make their own schedule of events and activities.   Worked on the design of website application using HTML, CSS, PHP, JAVASCRIPT. Online Shopping System, Java web application WUSTL - St. Louis, MO May 2013 to December 2013 Used object-oriented design pattern to realize a bookstore website which allows users to log in/out, add/remove items by using JDBC/JPA/Hibernate, based on Apache Tomcat servlet and PostgreSQL database. Website Testing Intern Evetos, LLC - St. Louis, MO June 2013 to August 2013 Responsibilities  Group member of testing of the website, which focus on event planning.   Participated in website feature design, gathered data and wrote test plans and cases to ensure the functionality of all parts of the website regarding to the various roles of the users. iOS Application Design, Software Engineering Workshop WUSTL - St. Louis, MO January 2013 to May 2013 Led team in writing an iPhone app where users are able to create/trim their own ringtones by using Objective-C language. Users can export the edited ringtone as .mp3 format so that they can be used anywhere they want.  iPhone/iPad game design: Tic-Tac-Toe and Battleship. Python Developer Python - St. Louis, MO September 2012 to December 2012 Realized networking communications in Python Education Master of Science in Electrical Engineering, major GPA:3.66, GPA:3.52 Washington University in St Louis - St. Louis, MO 2012 to 2014 Bachelor of Engineering in Communication Engineering University of Science & Technology Beijing 2008 to 2012 Skills Java development, Web Development and design, iOS development Additional Information Languages&Technology: Java, Objective-C, PHP, HTML, CSS, Python, Javascript, Amazon aws, Node.js, Ajax, Apache, jQuery, C, C++, SQL, Matlab, Linux.  Applications: Eclipse, Xcode, Komodo, Photoshop, Virtual Studio.