Python developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">developer</span> Python developer - Dominion Energy Richmond, VA • Around 7 years of IT experience as a PYTHON SoftwareEngineer, designing, developing, analysing and testing software along with enhancing performance and dealing with problems in high-traffic multi-tier architectures dealing with both client-side and server-side applications.  • Expert knowledge and experience in Object oriented Design and Programming concepts dealing with algorithms, data structures and operating systems.  • Expertise in development using Python (libraries used: libraries- Beautiful Soup, numpy, scipy, Matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas, network, urllib2, MySQL dB, psycopg2 for postgres and pymongo for mongo DB connections) and IDEs - sublime text, Spyder, pycharm, emacs, vim, code-insiders, pydev, eclipse, atom-editor.  • Experience in python, Django, Pyramid and Flask Framework  • Good knowledge in GUI frameworks -Tkinter, WxPython, PyQt.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, XML, JSON, BSON, CSS, HTML, DHTML,XHTML, JavaScript and JQuery, RESTful, MVT architecture ,AJAX.  • Working experience in implementing SOAP/RESTful web services in JSON, XML format.  • Experience programming in HTML, CSS and JavaScript, GoLang, Python for web applications.  • Experience in analyzing and handling large datasets using Oracle Relational Database 9g, 10g, 11g, Postgres, MySQL.  • Have good knowledge on No-Sql databases like Cassandra, Mongo dBand Redis(for caching).  • Good knowledge in maintaining various version controls systems such as SVN and GIT.  • Have good Knowledge of Agile Methodologies (Scrum).  • Experienced in Shell Scripting (BASH, SH), UNIX and Linux, Open stack.  • Experienced in writing SQL Queries, Stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, triggers in RDMS databases.  • Developed Machine Learning algorithms with Spark Mlib standalone and R/ Python.  • Hands-on experience in NoSQL database Cassandra installation.  • knowledgeablein serving through Apache Tomcat, Web logic servers and using NGINX and Apache server for load-balancing and reverse-proxy.  • Understanding of Python best Practices (PEP-8, PEP-232)  • Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Experience and knowledge in AWS data lake storing and data analytics and spark data frames for processing and manipulating very large data files  • Understand the Basic Concepts of BIG DATA technologies and processing using SPARK processing (Pyspark).  • Have Experience in working with Data Sciences using python and Common Networking Protocols and Architecture like HTTP, SSL.  • Good idea about testing tools like Bugzilla and JIRA.  • Maintained detailed documentation and architectural solutions in IT infrastructure and sales systems.  • Skilled in Debugging/troubleshooting issues in complex large code-base applications.  • Experienced in Unit testing, Integration testing, User acceptance testing, Functional testing using Pyunit, the de-facto python unit test framework for web based applications.  • Active Participation in Full Development Life Cycle (Requirements, Design, Architecture, Development, Testing).  • Experience with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins.  • Expert knowledge over J2EE Design Patterns like MVC Architecture, Singleton, Factory Pattern, Front Controller, and Data Access Object. Work Experience Python developer Dominion Energy - Richmond, VA January 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Developed full stack applications using python's Django framework as the back-end and jinja templating system.  • Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  • Developed python web applications connected to MongoDB using pymongo and Redis for caching.  • Used Test driven approach for developing the application and Implemented the unit testsusing Python Unit test framework.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Worked with millions of database records on a daily basis, finding common errors and baddata patterns and fixing them.  • Developed Python scripts to monitor health of Mongo databases and perform ad-hocbackups using Mongo dump and Mongo restore.  • Developed Dynamic SQL queries in Oracle database using DBMS_SQL package to by-pass manual effort required for the tasks involved.  • Implemented Microservices in GoLang.  • Designed and developed an entire module called CDC (change data capture) in python and deployed in AWS GLUE using Pyspark library and python  • Designed front end using UI, HTML, Bootstrap, Node JS, Angular JS CSS,and JavaScript.  • Involved in the Complete Software development life cycle (SDLC) to develop theapplication.  • Ensured high quality data collection and maintaining the integrity of the data.  • Designed a workflow for data passing from AWS gateway server to AWS S3 for both encrypted and decrypted formats and then to custom developed delta process module  • Assist with building processes to insure continuity in the task that we complete as a team. To include the Windows Server Build Guide used by the Cloud services team  • Cleaned data and processed third party spending data into maneuverable deliverables within specific formats with Excel macros and python libraries.  • Wrote and executed several complex SQL queries in AWS glue for ETL operations in Spark data frame using sparksql  • Implemented the frontend and backend using, JavaScript,PythonFramework, and Neo4j  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Built a delta file from full file by identifying only INSERTS, UPDATES and DELETES by using python and pyspark modules and store it in S3  • Familiar with key data science concepts (statistics, data visualization, machine learning, etc.). Experienced in Python, R, MATLAB, SAS, PySpark programming for statistic and quantitative analysis.  • Worked on Cassandra de-normalized data modeling for multi-node cluster.  • Gained excellent knowledge of Cassandra internal architecture, gossiping protocols and ring topology.  • Working experience in creating REST webservice protocols in python to access AWS and Reltio  • Contributed in migrating data from Oracle database to Apache Cassandra (a NoSQL database) using SSTable loader.  • Assisted the business analyst team in the capacity of a Data Science specialist for modeling unstructured data, extraction and visualization using Python.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Placed data into JSON files using Python to test Django websites.  • Used Python scripts to update the content in database and manipulate files.  • Developed web based application using Django framework with python concepts.  • Generated Python Django forms to maintain the record of online users.  • Developed a mapping process for delta file to JSON format for AWS glue consumption and created and call the glue  • Used Django API's to access the database.  • Involved in Python OOD code for quality, logging, monitoring, and debugging code optimization.  • Wrote Python modules to view and connect the Apache Cassandra instance.  • Developed tools to automate some base tasks using Python, Shell scripting and XML.  • Developed existing network mapping microservices using python nmap and deployed it on kubernetes  • Used Pyats to implement GUI for the user to create, modify and view reports based on client data.  • Developed efficient Angularjs for client web based application.  • Responsible for designing, developing, testing, deploying and maintaining the web application.  • Designed and developed the UI for the website with HTML, XHTML, CSS, Java Script and AJAX.  • Responsible for managing large databases using Pandas data frames and MySQL.  • Wrote and executed various MySQL database queries from Python-MySQL connector and MySQL db package.  • Involved in debugging and troubleshooting issues and fixed many bugs in two of the main applications which are main source of data for customers and internal customer service team.  • Implemented SOAP/RESTful web services in JSON format.  • Created Git repository and added the project to GitHub. Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.    Environment: Python 2.7, GoLang, Django, scipy, Pandas, Spark, API, Bugzilla, SVN, Apache HTTP, Java, JQuery, MySQL, Linux, Eclipse, Shell Scripting, HTML5/CSS. Red hat Linux, RUBY, Cassandra, MongoDB, Redis. Python Developer Vanguard - Malvern, PA February 2017 to December 2017 Responsibilities:  • Analysis and Design of application.  • Created UI using JavaScript and HTML5/CSS.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Implemented business logic using Python/Django with jinja templating system.  • Worked with millions of database records daily, finding common errors and bad data patterns and fixing them.  • Exported/Imported data between different data sources using SQL Server Management Studio.  • Maintained program libraries, users' manuals and technical documentation.  • Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  • Developed server-side software modules and client-side user interface components deployed entirely in Compute Cloud of Amazon Web Services (AWS)  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Thorough knowledge in various front-end tools like HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript, XML, JQuery, Angular JS, and AJAX  • Implementing the microservices using Java/J2EE.  • Hands-on experience in writing and reviewing requirements, architecture documents, test plans, design documents, quality analysis, audits and generating technical documentation for the project.  • Building/Maintaining Docker container clusters managed by Kubernetes, Linux, Bash, GIT, Docker, on AWS. Utilized Kubernetes and Docker for the runtime environment of the CI/CD system to build, test deploy  • Extensively involved in all phases of data acquisition, data collection, data cleaning, model development, model validation and visualization to deliver data science solutions.  • Familiarity with Java and Python Client drivers for building client-side applications interacting with Cassandra database.  • Assign Job to AWS Data pipeline service to access log data in AWS S3  • Experience in provisioning and managing multi-data center Cassandra cluster on Amazon Web Services.  • Experience with Cassandra Performance tuning in improving the write/read throughput and latency.  • Built various graphs for business decision-making using Python matplotlib library.  • Fetched twitter feeds for certain important keyword using python-twitter library and used it for sentimental analysis.  • Developed Restful microservices using Flask and Django and deployed on AWS servers using EBS and EC2  • Used Python library Beautiful Soup for webscrapping.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  • Created most important Business Rules which are useful for the scope of project and needs of customers  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud  • Used SQL Alchemy to generate ORM model for the project to connect python backend code to postgres database  • Work with team of developers on python applications for RISK management.  • Took part in various lifecycle phases such as Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Used Pandas and Scikit-learn libraries for statistics Analysis.  • Created most important Business Rules, which are useful for the scope of project, and needs of customers.  • Used python flask framework to develop Restful API's service.  • Created Restful API's to integrate and enhance functionalities of the application. Also Utilized Restful API in communicating with third parties  • For sending and receiving the data between multiple systems RESTful Web-Services were implemented.  • Used Docker and Ansible to fully automate the deployment and execution of the benchmark suite on a cluster of machines.  • Utilized continuous integration and automated deployments with Jenkins, Ansible and Docker  • Designed the architecture of the hardware environments and methodology of the code  • Created AWS S3 buckets, configuring buckets with permissions, logging, versioning and tagging.  • Used BOTO3 software development kit for AWS S3 services.  • Participated in Performance tuning and query optimization in AWS Redshift  • Managed Amazon redshift clusters such as launching the cluster by specifying the nodes and performing the data analysis queries.  • Applied NLP techniques and increased accuracy  • Used NLP to rank the documents and data.  • Performed tokenization in NLP.  • Experienced in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM Process.  • Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all of its commands.  • Refactored existing project to make it more Restful and thread-safe.  • Added unit tests and improved existing ones using assert and pyunit.  • Designed RESTful XML web service for handling AJAX requests.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django, HTML5/CSS, UNIX, MS SQL Server 2013, Jasper, Reports, JavaScript, Eclipse, Red Hat Linux, Shell Scripting, RESTful, MVC3. Python Developer Webster Bank - Bristol, CT July 2016 to January 2017 Responsibilities:  • Involved in the Design, development, test, deploy and maintenance of the website.  • UI was developed using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript  • Developed single page application using Backbone.js along with JQuery.  • Responsible for setting up Python REST API framework using DJANGO.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python modules like math, glob,  • random, itertools, functools.  • Developed Wrapper in Python for instantiating multi-threaded application.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating  • language to created user-friendly website interface.  • Responsible for search engine optimization to improve the visibility of the website.  • Used D3.js library for visualizations like transitions, line charts and bar graphs.  • Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  • Designed and developed the presentation layer/client end and handled all the client sidevalidation using JavaScript.  • Wrote validation scripts in SQL to validate data loading.  • Use GIT for version control.  • Performed Unit and system testing.  Environment: Python, Django, MySQL, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, Apache Web Server, Git,Red hat Linux. Python Developer Client Samhitha It October 2013 to November 2015 Responsibilities:  • Write Python scripts to parse JSON documents and load the data in database.  • Use Python and Django to interface with the JQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Experience in writing branching and merging python code using git.  • Created projects and portal sites in Web portal using python Django.  • Experience in setting up App pools and web sites in Python.  • Features for dashboard were developed and tested using CSS, JavaScript, Django, Bootstrap.  • Created the front end of the app using Angular JS.  • Responsible for writing/modifying scripts using sh,ksh, and Bash for day-to- day administration.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django including Tastypie Web Framework using Git.  • Create database using MySQL, wrote several queries to extract data from database.  • Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  • Dynamic implementation of SQL server work on website using SQL developer tool.  • Designed front end using UI, HTML, Bootstrap, Node JS, underscore JS, Angular JS, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Follow AGILE development methodology to develop the application.  • Designed, developed and maintained PostgreSQL database architecture.  • Used and customized apache server to for checking our developed project.  • Used Test driven approach (TDD) for developing services required for the application.  • Implemented Integration test cases.  • Write multi-thread scripts to obtain optimal performance.  • Used AJAX to reduce page reloads.  • Used the Model View controller (MVC) framework to build modular and maintainable applications.  • This project also used other technologies like JQuery for java script manipulations, bootstrap for the front-end html layout.  • Created tables, stored procedures, triggers and views for data access and manipulation.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.6, HTML5, CSS, XML, MySQL, MongoDB, JavaScript, Angular JS, JQuery, CSS Bootstrap, JavaScript, Eclipse, Git, GitHub Linux, Redis, Shell Scripting Python Developer Client NSG February 2012 to October 2013 Responsibilities:  • Used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users.  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation.  • Used Python with jinja templating for full-stack web development.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS, JQuery, JSON and JavaScript.  • Used Bootstrap as a mechanism to manage and organize the html page layout.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL db package.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Developed entire front-end and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django module to deliver certain format of data.  • Used Django Database API to access database objects.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application    Environment: MySQL, HTML, Python 2.0, Django 1.4, CSS, XML, MySQL, JavaScript, Linux, Shell Scripting, PHP, AJAX Education Master's Skills Django, Html, Bootstrap, Python, Flask, Matplotlib, Numpy, Mysql, Oracle, Pl/sql, Postgresql, Sql, Css, Linux, Unix, Java, jquery, Soap, Kafka, Mongodb, PHP, Android, Git, Javascript, ASP Additional Information Technical Skills:  • Programming Languages: Python-3.5 & 2.7, UML (design), Java, SQL, PL/SQL, kubernets and Ansible.  • Python Libraries: Python, Django, Flask, Beautiful Soup, httplib2, Jinja2, HTML/CSS,  Bootstrap, jQuery, Numpy, matPlotLib, PySide, Scipy, wxPython, PyTables.  • Frameworks: Django, web2py, pyramid, Flask,  • Databases: Oracle, MySQL, PostgreSQL, MongoDB,Kafka  • CloudTechnologies: AWS, Rackspace Cloud, Amazon S3.  • BugTrackingTools: Jira, Bugzilla, Rational.  • Protocols: TCP/IP, HTTP/HTTPS, SOAP, SNMP, SMTP, REST.  • Methodologies: Agile, Scrum and Waterfall  • OperatingSystems: Linux, Unix, Windows.