Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Eli Lilly Indianapolis, IN • Having 7+ Years of Experience as web/application developer software development and design using python, Django, Java, Webapp2, Angular.js, HTML/CSS, JavaScript and jQuery  • Experienced in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, Subroutines, functions on SQL, PL/SQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Experienced in understanding principles and best practices of Software Configuration Management (SCM) processes, which include compiling, packaging, deploying and Application configurations  • Good knowledge in working with application server - Apache Server, Tomcat (6.0, 7.0, 8.0), Nginx, WebLogic (10.0, 10.3, 11g), WebSphere (7.0, 8.5).  • Created a python, Django web-based application using Python scripting for data processing and MySQL for database, HTML, CSS, jQuery for data visualization.  • Experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts  • Expertise in MVW frameworks like Django, Angular JS, JavaScript, jQuery and Node JS.  • Used Ansible and Ansible Tower as Configuration management tool, to automate repetitive tasks, quickly deploys critical applications, and proactively manages change.  • Ability to work on own initiative and as a part of team. Willingness to learn new Technologies, openness to new ideas and ability to learn very quickly.  • Proficient in Front end development experience using Python 3.6/2.7, Django 1.7/1.8, HTML, XML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, JQuery, JSON and, Angular.js, Node.js.  • Using Amazon EC2 command line interface along with Bash/ Python to automate repetitive work.  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast HTTP server and Amazon AWS architecture.  • Involved in designing and developing of Automation Test cases using Selenium WebDriver, Java, and TestNG.  • Development, Quality Assurance and Management teams to ensure cross communication and confirmed approval of all production changes.  • Connected continuous integration system with GIT version control repository and continually build as the check-in's come from the developer.  • Working experience in UNIX and Linux shell environments using command line utilities.  • Creating Python scripts to automate daily networking tasks (Ex. auto Config generation, retrieving information from network devices, parsing data, etc.) - including a custom Fortigate firewall Config generator (which included multi-threaded functionality to generate Configs for multiple firewalls at once).  • Used Python/Django MVC framework to design and develop the application.  • Experience in Kubernets which provide a platform for automating deployment, scaling and operations of application containers across clusters of hosts.  • Good knowledge in various stages of SDLC (Software Development Life Cycle), Software Testing Life Cycle (STLC) and QA methodologies from project definition to post-deployment documentation.  • Experienced in understanding principles and best practices of Software Configuration Management (SCM) processes, which include compiling, packaging, deploying and Application configurations.  • Good experience with Python frameworks like Flask and WebApp2.  • Performed Unit testing, Integration Testing and generating of test cases for web applications using Junit and Python Unit test framework Hudson/Jenkins in the builds triggered by each push to GIT.  • Proficient in SQL databases MS SQL, MYSQL, Oracle and NO SQL databases MongoDB, Cassandra.  • Ability to work on own initiative and as a part of team. Willingness to learn new Technologies, openness to new ideas and ability to learn very quickly.  • Have Experience in List Comprehensions and Python inbuilt functions such as Map, Filter and Lambda. Work Experience Python Developer Eli Lilly - Indianapolis, IN March 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Interacted with Business team to gather requirements.  • Extensive experience with AWS services like S3, ELB, EBS, Auto-Scaling, Route53, Storefront, IAM, Cloud Watch, RDS etc.  • Extensively involved in infrastructure as code, execution plans, resource graph and change automation using Terraform. Managed AWS infrastructure as code using Terraform.  • Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  • Created Terraform scripts for EC2 instances, Elastic Load balancers and S3 buckets. Implemented Terraform to manage the AWS infrastructure and managed servers using configuration management tools like Chef and Ansible.  • Developed file cleaners using Python libraries and made it clean.  • Worked on MVC architecture using PHP, Python as controller.  • Build numerous Lambda functions using python and automated the process using the event created.  • Created an AWS Lambda architecture to monitor AWS S3 Buckets and triggers a thumbnail create event whenever a user uploads a new picture.  • Worked on packages like socket, REST API, Django.  • Hands on experience in migrating Business from a physical data centre environment to AWS.  • Experienced in setting up EC2 instances, security groups and Setting up databases in AWS using S3bucket and configuring instance backups to S3 bucket.  • Performed S3 buckets creation, policies on IAM role based polices, MFA and customizing the JSON template  • Automated various service and application deployments with ANSIBLE on CentOS and RHEL in AWS.  • Wrote ANSIBLE Playbooks with Python, SSH as the Wrapper to Manage Configurations of AWS Nodes and Test Playbooks on AWS instances using Python. Run Ansible Scripts to provision Dev servers.  • Worked in MySQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization.  • Deployed the project into Jenkins using GIT version control system.  • Learned to index and search/query large number of documents inside Elastic search.  • Taken part in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Experience in Python advanced packages and modules like Requests, Scrapy, BeautifulSoup, Multithreading, Pandas, Numpy, Scipy, Matplotlib, wxPython, QT, Regex expressions, SQL Alchemy, SQL based database connectiors JDBC/ODBC and Py-Virtual Environment.  • Understanding of secure-cloud configuration, Cloud Trail, cloud-security technologies (VPC, Security Groups, etc.) and cloud-permission systems(IAM)  • Experience in Installing Jenkins/Plugins for GIT Repository, Setup SCM Polling for Immediate Build with Maven and Maven Repository and Deployment of apps using custom modules through Puppet as a CI/CD Process.  • Extensive use of version controlling systems like GIT and SVN.  • Loaded the data into Spark RDD and do in memory data Computation to generate the Output response.  • Configured and maintained Jenkins to implement the CI process and integrated the tool with Ant and Maven to schedule the builds.  • Created Maven POMs to automate build process for the new projects and integrated them with third party tools like SonarQube.  • Responsible for installing and administrating the SonarQube for code quality check and Nexus repository and generating reports for different projects. Also, integrated them into Jenkins.  • Helped to understand the process of SonarQube through Presentations and other business value measurement.  • Prepared scripts to ensure proper data access, manipulation and reporting functions with R programming languages.  • Formulated procedures for integration of R programming plans with data sources and delivery systems.  • Involved in writing queries in SparkSQL using Scala.  • Hands on experience in Apache Spark creating RDD's and Data Frames applying operations like Transformation and Actions and converting RDD's to Data Frames.  • Worked with View Sets in Django-REST framework for providing web services and consumed web services performing CRUD operations.  • Used Python Library Beautiful Soup 4 for Web Scraping to extract data for building graphs.  • Used AngularJS as the development framework to build a single-page application.    Environment:  Python 3.6/2.7, Django 2.0/1.6, HTML5, CSS, AWS, API Gateway, Java, J2EE, REST API, Spring framework, AngularJS, HTML, Amazon S3, CloudWatch, eclipse, MS-SQL Server, GIT, Jira, Jenkins, Kubernets, Confluence. Python Developer OneMain Financial June 2016 to February 2018 Responsibilities:  • Involved in analysis, specification, design, and implementation and testing phases of Software  • Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and used agile methodology for developing application. Upgraded existing UI with HTML, CSS, jQuery and Bootstrap.  • Working as an application developer experienced with controllers, views and models in Django.  • Used Salt Stack to configure and manage the infrastructure.  • Restful web services using Python REST API Framework.  • Involved in designing and deploying multitude applications utilizing almost all of the AWS stack (Including EC2, Route53, S3, RDS, Dynamo DB, SNS, SQS, IAM) focusing on high-availability, fault tolerance, and auto-scaling in AWS Cloud Formation.  • Automated Regular AWS tasks like snapshots creation using Python scripts.  • Build servers using AWS, importing volumes, launching EC2, RDS, creating security groups, auto-scaling, load balancers (ELBs) in the defined virtual private connection.  • Managed Virtual servers (Ubuntu, Linux and Windows) on AWS EC2 using Open-Source Chef server.  • Deployed and monitored scalable infrastructure on Amazon Web Services (AWS) & configuration management using Chef  • Implemented the application using Python Spring IOC (Inversion of Control), Django Framework and handled the security using Python Spring Security.  • Launched Kubernetes to provide a platform for automating deployment, scaling and operations of application containers across clusters of hosts.  • Tested entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Responsible for handling the integration of database systems.  • Developed Server-side automation using Node JS scripting and connecting different types of SQL and NoSQL stores from Node JS.  • Used object-relational mapping (ORM) solution, technique of mapping data representation from MVC model to Oracle Relational data model with an SQL-based schema  • Implemented Performance tuning and improved the Performance of Stored Procedures and Queries.  • Installed and configured py Builder for application builds and deploying it.  • Used Selenium Library to write fully functioning test automation process that allowed the simulation of submitting different we request from multiple browser to web application  • Developed and Deployed SOAP based Web Services on Tomcat Server  • Used Jenkins for continuous integration for code quality inspection and worked on building local repository mirror and source code management using Git hub.  • Used IDE tool to develop the application and JIRA for bug and issue tracking.  • Wrote unit testing codes using unit test, resolving bugs and other defects using Firebug,  • Used JIRA to assign, track, report and audit the issues.  • Used GIT to coordinate team development.    Environment: Python, Django, Django-CMS, SSO, Kubernetes, PostgreSQL, MySQL, Bootstrap JS, HTML5, CSS3, Agile, REST, JSON Python Developer Catholic Health - Denver, CO July 2015 to May 2016 Responsibilities  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Build all database mapping classes using FLASK models.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python to build an interactive web based solution.  • Extensive experience in implementing Continuous Integration and Continuous Delivery (using Jenkins) in an AWS Environment.  • Created Test plans. Worked on SQL scripts to load data in the tables.  • Connected continuous integration system with GIT version control repository and continually build as the check-in's come from the developer.  • Launched Kubernetes to provide a platform for automating deployment, scaling and operations of application containers across clusters of hosts.  • Coding groovy, domain class to handle the business logic.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on FLASK Framework.  • Developed custom screens using HTML5, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap, Jinja and Angular.js.  • Developed monitoring and notification tools using Python.  • Expert knowledge of mobile application development along with various patterns native, web and hybrid concept.  • Involved in business logic discussions and use case design.  • Reviewed product requirement documents, functional specifications, and involved in developing test strategy, test plan and test case documents.  • Experience in Selenium Automation using Selenium Web Driver, Java and Unit Test Framework.  • Created Selenium web-driver automation scripts using Python to validate functionality on various browsers.  • Very good understanding of Microsoft Azure cloud platform. Experience with managing cloud delivery platforms, Azure/Aws.  • Established framework to setup Continuous Integration environment using Jenkins, Nexus.  • Extensive experience in implementing Continuous Integration and Continuous Delivery (using Jenkins) in an AWS Environment.  • Used Couchbase Python SDK to build applications that use Couchbase Server.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Involved in developing selenium automation framework using TestNG. Developed Maven targets to execute automation suites from command line.  • Worked on AWS Cloud and Created instances in EC2.  • Participated in weekly release meetings with Technology stakeholders to identify and migrate potential risks associated with the releases.  • Experienced in designing Test Plans and Test Cases, Verifying and Validating Web based application.  • Imported and managed multiple corporate applications into Subversion (SVN).    Environment: Python, Windows, MySQL, flask, Numpy, SQLAlchemy, Kubernetes, MySQL, MySQLdb, HTML, CSS, JQuery, JavaScript. Python Developer Limited Brands - Chicago, IL January 2014 to June 2015 Responsibilities:  • Developed Views and Templates with Django view controller and template language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Configured the Django admin site, dashboard and created a custom Django dashboard for end users with custom look and feel. Used Django APIs for database access.  • Used Python and Django for XML, JSON processing, data exchange and business logic implementation.  • Built database Model, Views and API's using Python for interactive web based solutions.  • Used Python scripts to update the content in database and manipulate files.  • Created UI using JavaScript and HTML5. Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Worked on Jenkins continuous integration tool for deployment of project.  • Played a key role in a development wide transition from Subversion to Git, which resulted in increase in efficiency for the development community.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Implemented RESTful Web-Services for sending and receiving the data between multiple systems.  • Used Python Library Beautiful Soup for web Scrapping    Environment: Python 2.7, Java Script, HTML, Angular JS, JQuery, JSON, AJAX, XML, CSS, SQL, MySQL, Bootstrap, Restful Web Services, Beautiful Soup, Jenkins, GitHub, SVN, Linux, PyCharm. Python Developer Polaris - IN May 2012 to December 2013 Responsibilities:  • Participated in the complete SDLC process and used Python to develop website functionality.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL. Built application logic using Python  • Used MYDQL for database access.  • Used Python to extract information from XML files  • Participated in requirement gathering and worked closely with the architect in designing and modeling.  • Worked on installing and setting up the channels by using Django. Used JavaScript and JSON to update a portion of a webpage.  • Involved in gathering and analyzing system requirements.  • Performed joins, group by and other operations in MapReduce using Python.  • Followed Agile Methodologies to manage full life-cycle development of the project  • Implemented monitoring and established best practices around using elastic search.  • Effectively communicated with the external vendors to resolve queries.  • Involved in doing AGILE (SCRUM) practices and planning of sprint attending daily agile (SCRUM) meetings and SPRINT retrospective meetings to produce quality deliverables within time.  • Environment: Python, Django Framework, JavaScript, CSS, SQL, MySQL, LAMP, jQuery, Adobe Dreamweaver, Apache web server.  Environment: Python, Django, MY SQL, Linux, Git, Agile, HTML, CSS, Eclipse, Linux, Shell Scripting. Skills C++, Django, Git, Hadoop, Javascript, Bootstrap, Json, Mapreduce, memcached, Php, Python, Flask, Matplotlib, Numpy, Svn, Xml, Sql server, Mysql, Postgresql, Sql Additional Information Technical skills:    Languages • Python, C++, C, SQL, Java and PHP  Web Development • HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap, AJAX, XML JSON  Frameworks  • Django, Flask, CherryPy, Pyramid, NodeJS, Angular JS, JSP, Numpy,  • Matplotlib, Servlets    Servers • Apache Tomcat, Apache HTTP, JBOSS  Databases • PostgreSQL, MySQL, Cassandra, Redis, MongoDB, SQL Server  Big Data Technologies • Hadoop, MapReduce and Spark  Methodologies • Agile (Scrum), Waterfall  Tools  • Git, SVN, Mercurial, Memcached, Jira, SSIS, Data Migrator, Visual  • studio    IDE • Notepad++, Eclipse, IDLE, Pycharm, Pyscripter  OS • Windows, Linux, Unix