Python developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">developer</span> Python developer - Verizon Wireless Township of Warren, NJ ? 6+ years of experience as an Analysis, Design, Development, Management and Implementation of various stand-alone, client-server enterprise applications using Python.  ? Strong experience in developing software in Python using libraries- Beautiful Soup, numpy, scipy, matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas data frame, network, urllib2, MySQL dB for database connectivity and IDEs - sublime text, PyStudio, PyScripter, Spyder, PyCharm, and PyDev.  ? Handy Experience in developing web applications implementing Model View Control architecture using Django, Flask, and springweb application frameworks.  ? Installed/Configured/Maintained Apache Hadoop clusters for application development and Hadoop tools, including: Hive, Pig, HBase, Zookeeper and Sqoop.  ? Extensive experienced as a Web/Application Developer and Cloud Engineer as coding with analytical programming using Python, Django, HTML, CSS, JavaScript.  ? Actively involved in each phase of software Development life cycle (SDLC) experience in AgileSoftwareMethodology.  ? Experienced in designing web pages and Graphical user interfaces, front end layouts on the web by using HTML, DHTML, CSS, Bootstrapframework, PHP, XML, JavaScript, node Js and Angular Js.  ? Performed mapping of JSON/XML formatted data with relational databases like MySQL, PostgreSQL and SQLite.  ? Expertise in full life cycle application development and good experience in Unit testing and Test-Driven Development (TDD) and Behavior driven Development.  ? Hands on experience with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins.  ? Hands on experience with version control tools such as SVN, GitHub, and GitLab.  ? Developed the project in Linux environment and Used Agile Methodology and SCRUM Process. Used Shellscripting for building and deploying java application to target environments.  ? Experience in scripting languages including Shell Scripting, PERLScripting and build automation using ANT, MAVEN and other UNIX, Windows system level programming.  ? Strong experience in DevOps Environment by enhancing Continuous Delivery and infrastructure change by using Chef, Ansible, Kubernetes and Docker to deploy code with GIT, Jenkins.  ? Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python) Architecture and Wrote Automation test cases using Selenium Web Driver, JUnit, Maven, and Spring.  ? Good experience in Shell Scripting, SQL Server, Unix and Linux, Open stock.  ? Excellent Interpersonal and communication skills, efficient time management and organization skills, ability to handle multiple tasks and work well in a team environment. Work Experience Python developer Verizon Wireless - Township of Warren, NJ September 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Associated with various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the application like requirement gathering, Design, Analysis and Code development.  ? Worked with team of developers on Python applications for RISK management.  ? Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users.  ? Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation.  ? Experienced in ORM programming in converting data between incompatible type systems in OOPlanguages.  ? Developed flask Restful API endpoints for accessing through UI and uploading ETL data.  ? Contribute to major development initiatives with codebases utilizing Python, Django, R, MySQL, MongoDB, jQuery and React.  ? Performed Compatibility testing of applications for dynamic and static content of browsers using HTMLIds and XPath in Selenium.  ? Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework with GIT.  ? Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQLdb package.  ? Experienced in using Pig, Hive, Sqoop, Oozie, ZooKeeper, HBase and ClouderaSpark, Ansible, Docker and Git.  ? Used IDE tool to develop the application and JIRA for bug and issue tracking and Used JIRA to assign, track, report and audit the issues.  ? Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Java, Bootstrap, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  ? Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  ? Worked on cross browser compilation and Responsive Web Design using HTML5, CSS3 and Bootstrap.  ? Implemented the Backbone JS for DOM manipulation as this is the light web framework compared to Angular JS.  ? Created the environment specific settings for a new deployment and updated the deployment specific conditional checks in code base to use specific checks.  ? Collaborated with internal teams to convert end user feedback into meaningful and improved solutions.  ? Resolved ongoing problems and accurately documented progress of a project.  Environment: Python, Django, MongoDB, Selenium, Pandas, Java, JQuery, Zookeeper, Bootstrap, MySQL, Linux, Ajax, Java Script, Apache, JIRA, Cassandra, HTML5 and CSS, Angular JS, Backbone JS. Python developer Sirius XM Holdings, Inc - Irving, TX June 2017 to August 2018 Responsibilities:  ? Translated the customer requirements into design specifications and ensured that the requirements translate into software solution.  ? Application was based on service-oriented architecture and used Python 2.7, Django1.5, JSF 2.1, Spring 3.2.5, Ajax, HTML, CSS for the frontend.  ? Developed Automation Scripts for Regression using Selenium WebDriver and Python.  ? Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online financial users.  ? Worked on Integration of Selenium RC/WebDriver with existing API to test Framework.  ? Used PandasAPI to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  ? Cleaned data and processed third party spending data into maneuverable deliverables within specific formats with Excel macros and python libraries. Used TDD (Test driven development) methodology.  ? Experienced Python on LINUX for execution.  ? Actively involved in developing the methods for Create, Read, Update and Delete (CRUD) in Active Record.  ? Implemented database access using Django ORM.  ? Designed and developed ETL processes that were used to integrate data between various sources using Informatica, PowerCenter 9.  ? Designed and developed Oracle PL/SQL Procedures, Functions, and Database Triggers and involved in creating and updating Packages to meet business requirements.  ? Used Python library BeautifulSoup for web scrapping to extract data for building graphs.  ? Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, OracleDB, PostgreSQL, and VMWareAPI calls.  ? Experience in writing SubQueries, StoredProcedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  ? Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  ? Designed RESTful XML web service for handling AJAX requests.  ? Worked in development of applications especially in Linux environment and familiar with all of its commands.  ? Used Amazon Cloud EC2 along with Amazon S3 bucket to upload and retrieve project history.  ? Skilled in using collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  ? Troubleshooting ETL issues in SQL Server Integration Services.  Environment: Python, Django, Selenium, HTML5, CSS, VMware, Oracle DB, Pandas, Spring, MS SQL Server 2013, Jasper, Reports, JavaScript, Ajax, Eclipse, Linux, Shell Scripting, RESTful, MVC3. Python developer Blackboard Insurance - New York, NY May 2016 to May 2017 Responsibilities:  ? Converted Visual Basic Application to Python, MSQL.  ? Used python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  ? Created Reports using JASPER.  ? Used Thales asynchronous theorem for applying encryption and decryption of ISO standard message in Python programming.  ? Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  ? Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS, JQuery and JavaScript.  ? Developed user-friendly modals for the form submissions using simplemodal.js, JQuery, Ajax and JavaScript.  ? Developed PowerShell scripts to configure the upgraded Exchange environment, migrate users, then monitor and maintain the new environment.  ? Used Python modules such as requests, urllib, urllib2 for web crawling.  ? Wrote scripts in Python for extracting data from HTML file.  ? Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all of its commands.  ? Using version control tools like Zookeeper Curator, Guava, Logging (slf4j, logback, log4j), Junit.  ? Performed different testing methods like unit testing, Integration testing, webapplication testing and selenium testing.  ? Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  ? Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQLdb package.  ? Thorough knowledge in various front-end tools like HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript, XML, JQuery, Angular JS, and AJAX.  ? Experience in working with Drag and Drop Calculation, and Geographic Search by using Tableau.  ? Spark Streaming collects data from Kafka in near-real-time and performs necessary transformations and aggregation to build the common learner data model and stores the data in NoSQL store (MongoDB)  ? Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language. Good experience with Unix, Linuxscripting/unittesting/Loadtesting, Performancestress/endurance testing and Integration Testing; tools and frameworks- Junit, PyUnit, HPVUGENLoadRunner, Selenium Web driver, Controller, Dynatrace, Performance Center, QC, JIRA.  ? Build back-end application with Python / Django, work with Docker, RabbitMQ, Celery, Jenkins.  ? Used data types like dictionaries, tuples and object-oriented concepts-based inheritance features for making complex algorithms of networks.  ? Experience in debugging and troubleshooting programming related issues.  Environment: Python, Django, VBscripts, Jasper, Gerrit, MySQL, Zookeeper, Unix, HTML, CSS, JQuery, JavaScript, Apache, Ajax, simplemodal.js, Git, PowerShell, Selenium, Linux, Bootstrap, GitHub, Beautiful Soup, JIRA, Panda, Jenkins. Python Developer Vindhya Infotech Private Limited June 2014 to November 2015 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in analysis, specification, design, and implementation and testing phases of Software  Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and used agile methodology for developing application.  ? Working as an application developer experienced with controllers, views and models in Django  ? Used Salt Stack to configure and manage the infrastructure  ? Restful web services using Python REST API Framework.  ? Implemented the application using Python Spring IOC (Inversion of Control), Django Framework and handled the security using Python Spring Security.  ? Tested entire frontend and backend modules using Python on DjangoWeb Framework  ? Responsible for handling the integration of database system.  ? Developed Server-side automation using Node JS scripting and connecting different types of SQL and NoSQL stores from Node JS.  ? Used object-relational mapping (ORM) solution, technique of mapping data representation from MVC model to Oracle Relational data model with an SQL-based scheme.  ? Implemented Performance tuning and improved the Performance of Stored Procedures and Queries.  ? Installed and configured py Builder for application builds and deploying it.  ? Used Selenium Library to write fully functioning test automation process that allowed the simulation of submitting different we request from multiple browser to web application.  ? Developed and Deployed SOAP based Web Services on Tomcat Server.  ? Used Jenkins for continuous integration for code quality inspection and worked on building local repository mirror and source code management using Git hub.  ? Used IDE tool to develop the application and JIRA for bug and issue tracking.  ? Wrote unit testing codes using unit test, resolving bugs and other defects using Firebug.  ? Used JIRA to assign, track, report and audit the issues.  ? Used GIT to coordinate team development.  Environment: Python, Django Web Framework, HTML, CSS, NoSQL, JavaScript, JQuery, Sublime Text, Jira, GIT, py Builder, unit test, Firebug, Web Services. Program Analyst Careator Technology Private Limited June 2013 to May 2014 Responsibilities:  ? Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  ? Involved in the complete Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including Requirement Analysis, Design, Implementation, Testing and Maintenance.  ? Utilize in-depth knowledge of functional and Technical experience in Java/J2EE and other leading-edge products and technology in conjunction with industry and business skills to deliver solutions to customer.  ? Designed the front end of the application using Ember.js, HTML and CSS3.  ? Used Hibernate for mapping data representation from MVC model to Oracle Relational data model with a SQL-based schema.  ? Implemented Spring Batch jobs for ensuring sending alerts to clients based on configured business rules.  ? Implemented multithreading for parallel processing of requests using various features of Concurrent API.  ? Worked on Oracle 11g databases and wrote SQL queries as well as stored procedures for the application.  ? Assisted with production support activities using JIRA when necessary to help identify and resolve escalated production issues based on the SLA.  ? In addition, if the fix requires a code change, documented the Change Request and assign to the respective teams and tracked them to closure.  ? Wrote documents in support of the SDLC phases. Documents include requirements and analysis reports, design documents, and technical documentation.  ? Used Eclipse as IDE for developing the application.  ? Studying the existing environment and accumulating the requirements by interacting with the clients on various aspects.  Environment: Java, JSP, Servlets, spring, HTML, CSS, AJAX, Hibernate, XML, Maven, Oracle, JavaScript, Eclipse. Education Master's Skills CSS (5 years), HTML (5 years), DJANGO (4 years), jQuery (4 years), PYTHON (4 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:  Frameworks Django, Flask, Zope, PyJamas, Jython, Struts and CSS Bootstrap.  Web Technologies HTML, CSS, Java Script, JQuery, AJAX, XML, AngularJS, NodeJS.  Programming Languages Python, Java, C/C++, PERL, SQL and PL/SQL.  Scripting languages CSS, AJAX, Java Script, JQuery, PHP, PowerShell Scripting.  Application servers Apache Tomcat, Nginix, JBoss, WebLogic, WebSphere.  Databases Oracle (9i, 10g, 11g), My SQL, Apache Cassandra, MongoDB.  IDE's/ Development Tools NetBeans, Eclipse, PyCharm, PyScripter, PyStudio, and Sublime Text.    Operating Systems Windows, Red hat Linux 4.x/5.x/6.x, MAC OSX, Unix.  Protocols TCP/IP, HTTP/HTTPS, SOAP, SMTP.  Testing Tools Selenium, Bugzilla, Crucible and JIRA.    Methodologies Agile, Scrum and Waterfall.