Software Developer Software <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer - Financial Software and Systems Texas City, TX • 1+ years of experience in App development and Web services.  • Coming from Computer Science Engineering background, has strong programming  knowledge in C, Java, Python, JavaScript, jQuery and HTML.  • Experience developing user interfaces, testing, performance optimization, debugging and  troubleshooting.  • Academic project experience in steganograpy, visual cryptography and search engine  design and development. Work Experience Software Developer Financial Software and Systems - Chennai, Tamil Nadu July 2017 to Present Spring,web development and web services, app devlopment Python Developer SRM University September 2016 to December 2016 TECHNICAL SKILLS  • Programming Languages:  C, Java, Python, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery Software Developer FSS - Dallas, TX March 2016 to May 2016 With the growing need to store, send and receive data in a secured manner, an encryption  approach is implemented where the data is transformed into differenr forms and can be returned  back to its original form when needed. This can be achieved by using steganographic techniques and visual cryptography. Education Technology SRM University June 2013 to May 2017 NRI Junior College - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2011 to April 2013 Secondary State Board May 2010 to April 2011 Nalanda Good Samaritan High School - Hyderabad, Telangana Skills algorithms (Less than 1 year), application design. (Less than 1 year), Data structures (Less than 1 year), Database (Less than 1 year), Database systems (Less than 1 year) Additional Information • Operating systems:  Windows, Linux  • Database systems:  Oracle DB  • Applications:  MATLAB, MS Office  CORE COMPETENCIES  • Problem-solving ability  • Data structures & algorithms  • Creative thinking  • Technical writing  • Excellent communication skills  • Effective in a cross-functional environment    EXPERIENCE DESCRIPTION  Software Developer  Financial Software and Systems (FSS), Chennai, India  #Project: Spring Web Services (Feb 2018 - Present)  Responsibilities:  • Developing user interface (UI) screens using HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Designing and developing web applications using Java and Spring framework.  • Designing spring 5 rest services  #Project: Web Development (Nov 2017 - Jan 2018)  Responsibilities:  • Evaluating end-user requirements, custom designing solutions, troubleshooting for  complex information systems management.  • Designing, developing and deploying applications using python and J2EE technologies.  • Contribute to the design and development of application features.  • Integrating complex technical processes to develop solutions and implementing  application design.  #Project: R&D (Jul 2017 - Oct 2017)  Responsibilities:  • Participated in R&D activities to develop a sound payment app like 'Tez'.  • Analyzed data to created core component spec and presented it to the team.  • Worked closely will other developers to define the technical scope of the mobile app and  its features.  • Contributed to the design and development of the app using Python.    Python Developer  SRM University, Kattankulathur, India  #Project: Search Engine Design (Sep 2016 - Dec 2016)  Responsibilities:  • Independently built a search engine using C programming.  • The logic behind the design had three functions - crawler, indexer and searcher.