Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - United Airlines Chicago, IL • Over 6 years of experience as an Analysis, Design, Development, Management and Implementation of various stand-alone, client-server enterprise applications using Python.  • Building Data Pipelines using Shell Script, AWS Lambda, Mongo DB and Python.  • Strong experience in developing software in Python using libraries- Beautiful Soup, numpy, scipy, matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas data frame, network, urllib2, MySQL dB for database connectivity and IDEs - sublime text, PyStudio, PyScripter, Spyder, PyCharm, and PyDev  • Sound experience in working with different python editors like PyCharm, PyScripter, PyStudio, Sublime Text, Emacs and Spyder.  • Having experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Experience in implementing server-side technologies with restful API and MVC design patterns in node JS and Django framework.  • Implemented automation using Selenium WebDriver, Python.  • Experienced with full software development life-cycle, architecting scalable platforms, object-oriented programming, database design and agile methodologies  • Strong Experience in Automating Web Application Testing using Selenium WebDriver with Testing Framework.  • Build all database mapping classes using Django models with the help of ORM like SQL Alchemy.  • Expert in analyzing test results and preparing test/defect summary report for Sr. Management.  • Experience in Python, Django, Zope, Pyramid Framework  • Strong exposure testing applications on different browsers like IE, Firefox, and Chrome.  • Expertise in locating the web elements using XPATH and CSS.  • Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL and Python) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python) Architectures.  • Good experience in setting up REST API using Django.  • Firm knowledge of different phases of Software Testing and Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including Agile Methodology and Waterfall.  • Worked on Python Testing frameworks like zope, pytest, and nose and Robot framework.  • Good Experience in Linux Bash scripting and following PEP Guidelines in Python.  • Good knowledge in front end technologies such as HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, Node.JS, Angular.JS, XML, Ajax and JQuery.  • Experience in Performance Tuning, Query Optimization, Client/Server Connectivity, and Database Consistency Checks, Backup and Recovery.  • Good knowledge of web services with protocols REST.  • Experience in working on Application Servers like Tomcat and Web Servers like Apache server.  • Experience in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache.  • Good Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, PHP, C++, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript andJQuery,MVC3,RESTful,RUBY,AJAX  • Good experience in Shell Scripting, SQL Server, Unix and Linux, Open stock.  • Expertise in Object-Oriented design and coding. Good knowledge of various Design Patterns and UML.  • Have good idea about development tools like Bugzilla, Jira, Confluence, and Ax soft.  • Expert in maintaining technical documentation for projects.  • Good analytical and problem-solving skills and ability to work on own besides being a valuable and contributing team player.  • Excellent Interpersonal and communication skills, efficient time management and organization skills, ability to handle multiple tasks and work well in a team environment. Work Experience Python Developer United Airlines - Chicago, IL December 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web-based solution.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Good knowledge using various Python libraries to speed up development (libraries used: boto3, PySpark, PyMongo, Psycopg, MySQL Connector for database connectivity, etc.).  • Created Glue scripts using PySpark and AWS Glue libraries using Python.  • Made use of advanced python packages like NumPy, Scipy for various sophisticated numerical and scientific calculations.  • Used Angular.JS built-in directives, custom directives and services for developing interceptor and complex UI data table grids.  • Designed and Built Data pipelines to serve various business use cases such as ingesting into AWS S3 Data Lake, exporting data to consumers like ServiceNow, Sales Force, Oracle Cloud etc.  • Performed data exchange between systems in various formats such as JSON, CSV, Parquet, etc.  • Designed AWS Lambda functions in Python an enabler for triggering the shell script to ingest the data into Mongo DB and exporting data from Mongo DB to consumers.  • Designed Collections, performed CRUD operations, utilized aggregate pipelines in MongoDB.  • Implemented techniques for performance optimization such as Indexes, shard keys for Efficiency.  • Utilized AWS services like EC2, Lambda, Glue, DynamoDB, S3, KMS, CloudWatch, SNS, SQS for various data engineering tasks.  • Designed data engineering pipelines with several capabilities including data ingestion, Error Handling, capturing logs, scheduling, Checks and balances, event trigger, generating extracts, posting messages on MQ etc. in Python and AWS Lambda.  • Creating pipelines to load data into Snowflake using external stages to support downstream power BI dashboard.  • Built a pipeline to post messages to on premises IBM MQ from Local using small Python with pymqi.  • Created Glue scripts using PySpark and AWS Glue libraries using Python.  • Created Angular.JS controllers, services and used Angular.JS filters for filter functionality in search box and integrator functionalities.  • Utilized Python specific tools including Django, Django Rest Framework, Django ORM, Flask, SQL Alchemy, Pandas, Numpy.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Handled all the client-side validation using JavaScript.  • Performed testing using Django's Test Module.  • Used python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Worked with team of developers on Python applications for RISK management.  • Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation.  • Involving in scrum meeting, internal sprint reviews and sprint retrospective.  • Used JQuery for selecting DOM elements when parsing HTML.    Environment: Python, Django, PYQT, Java, XML, JQuery, DOM, JSON, Numpy, Pandas, Angular JS, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, JSON, Rest, GIT, MY SQL, Windows and LINUX, VS code, AWS Lambda, MongoDB Python Developer Johnson & Johnson - New Brunswick, NJ November 2017 to December 2018 Responsibilities:  • Created Python and Bash tools to increase the efficiency of call center application system and operations; data conversion scripts, AMQP/Rabbit MQ, REST, JSON, and CRUD scripts for API Integration.  • Used Celery with Rabbit MQ, MySQL, Django, to create a distributed worker framework.  • Recording of Scripts (Web, Web Services HTML) using Vugen and Soap UI and script validation through co correlations, parameterizations and other methods. Scripting- web and web services.  • The application was based on service-oriented architecture and used Python 2.7, Django1.5, JSF 2, Spring 2, Ajax, HTML, CSS for the frontend.  • Created server-monitoring daemon with Psutil, supported by Django app for analytics, which I created. Also researched big data solutions with Cassandra database.  • Experience with Data migration from Sqlite3 to Apache Cassandra database. Cassandra data model designing, implementation, maintaining and monitoring using DSE, Dev Centre, Data Stax Opscenter.  • Build the Silent Circle Management System (SCMC) in Django, Python, Node.JS and Oracle dB while integrating with infrastructure services.  • Created a Python/Django based web application using Python scripting for data processing, MySQL for the database, and HTML/CSS/JQuery and High Charts for data visualization of the served pages.  • Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, JQuery and REST API calls.  • Automated Rabbit MQ cluster installations and configuration using Python/Bash.  • Deployed the project into Heroku using GIT version control system.  • Improved the coding standards, code reuse. Increased performance of the extended applications by making effective use of various design patterns (Front Controller, DAO).  • Worked extensively with Bootstrap, Angular.js, Javascript, and JQuery to optimize the user experience.  • Carried out various mathematical operations for calculation purpose using python libraries.  • Built various graphs for business decision-making using Python mat plot lib library.  • Fetched twitter feeds for certain important keyword using the python-twitter library.  • Used Python library Beautiful Soup for web scrapping to extract data for building graphs.  • Executing regression tests on each release and verified bugs found from automation test in Bugzilla.  • Planning, implementing and converting manual test cases to automation test cases.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.4, Cassandra, Rabbit MQ, Soap UI, Node.JS, REST API, Bash, PyDev, HTML5, CSS, , MySQL, JavaScript, Angular JS, Backbone JS, JQuery, CSS Bootstrap, SQL server, JavaScript, Eclipse, GitHub, AWS, Linux, Shell Scripting, Visual Basic. Python Developer Augusta technology - Hyderabad, Telangana March 2015 to June 2017 Responsibilities:  • Converted Visual Basic Application to Python, MSQL.  • Used python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Created Reports using JASPER.  • Used Thales asynchronous theorem for applying encryption and decryption of ISO standard message in Python programming.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Implemented schema and data migration for the postgres database using South migration tool.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS, JQuery and JavaScript.  • Developed user-friendly modals for the form submissions using simplemodal.js, JQuery, Ajax and JavaScript.  • Experience in building the war with help the putty and deployed into cloud environment using the cloud controller and experience in solving the cloud issue.  • Designed and maintained PowerShell based troubleshooting procedures for bulk changes  • Developed PowerShell scripts to configure the upgraded Exchange environment, migrate users, then monitor and maintain the new environment  • Used Python modules such as requests, urllib, and urllib2 for web crawling.  • Worked on writing and as well as read data from csv and excel file formats.  • Performed QA testing on the application.  • Developed approaches for improving NLP pipeline.  • Create custom VB scripts in repackaging applications as needed.  • Wrote scripts in Python for extracting data from HTML file.  • Designed the frontend web pages using HTML, JavaScript, Angular JS, JQuery and AJAX. Used CSS for better appearance. Writing templates for front end pages where we include HTML pages and JavaScript files knowledge of cross-browser and cross-platform development of HTML and CSS based websites in Windows like IE 6, IE 7, IE 8 and FF.  • Interactive in providing change requests, trouble reports and requirements collection with the client.  • Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all of its commands.  • Experience in debugging and troubleshooting programming related issues.  • Improved performance by using more modularized approach and using more in built methods.  • Improved caching system for the test webserver.  • Collaborated with internal teams to convert end user feedback into meaningful and improved solutions.    Environment: Python, Django, VB scripts, Jenkins, Jasper, Gerrit, MySQL, Unix, HTML, CSS, JQuery, JavaScript, Apache, Ajax, simplemodal.js, Git, PowerShell. Python Developer OSI technologies Pvt Ltd - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2013 to February 2015 Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript  • Made Django web based apps for Insurance premium calculations.  • Used data types like dictionaries, tuples and object oriented concepts based inheritance features for making complex algorithms of networks.  • Involved in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis  • Collaborate with Product Management and User Experience experts regarding product definition, schedule, scope and project-related decisions.  • Build SQL, NOSQL queries implementing functions, packages, views, triggers, and tables.  • Handling the day to day issues and fine tuning the applications for enhanced performance.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Used Oracle database in developing the project and used SQL statements and procedures to fetch the data from the database  • Used CVS as version controlling tool.  • Used Eclipse as IDE for developing the application  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  • Experience with advanced CSS concepts and also building table-free layouts.  • Used update strategy, lookups, stored procedures and filter.  • Studying the existing environment and accumulating the requirements by interacting with the clients on various aspects.    Environment: Python 2.6, Django 1.2, MySQL, Linux, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, Eclipse, Oracle, NO SQL. Skills C++, Django, Git, Jenkins, Json, Python, Flask, Reporting tools, Subversion, Xml, Mysql, Oracle, Sql, Css, Tomcat, Dynamodb, Apache, Linux, Unix, Eclipse Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/priya-g-5a340a191 Additional Information Technical Skills:    Languages Python, C, C++, Core Java  Markup Languages HTML5, CSS, JSON, XML  Frameworks Django, Flask  Protocols TCP/IP, HTTP/HTTPS, SOAP  Version Control Tools Subversion and GIT  Scrum Methodologies Waterfall and Agile  Operating Systems Windows95/98/NT/2000/XP/7/8/10, Unix, Linux (CentOS and Ubuntu)  Databases MySQL, MS SQL, Oracle, Mongo dB  Deployment Tools Jenkins, Hudson  IDE Tools PyCharm, Eclipse, PyStudio, IntelliJ  Web Servers Apache, Tomcat, HTTP Server  Bug Reporting Tools JIRA, Bugzilla and Collab Net  MS Office Tools MS Word, MS PowerPoint, MS Excel  AWS Services S3, Lambda, SNS, CloudWatch, SQS, DynamoDB