Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Media Services Los Angeles, CA 8 years of IT experience, as strong background in Object Oriented Programming and Web/Application Developer. Looking for a position to fit myself in an integral part of a team and dynamical professional environment. A punctilious, fast learner offering the ability to access an organization's need and create a complementary, robust web presence.  Core Qualifications:  • Dedicated technical profession having 6+ years of programming experience, committed to maintaining technical skills and to be up-to-date with industry knowledge.  • Proven track record of implementing data driven web back ends with Python and Django.  • Experience with objects oriented programming, full development life cycle and worked with Agile and Waterfall methodologies.  • Extensive experience with multiple technologies Python, PL/SQL, Oracle and PostgreSQL.  • Good Experience with Django, a high-level Python Web framework.  • Backend applications using Python/Flask/Django and SQL/ PostgreSQL.  • Have good knowledge on NoSQL databases like Cassandra and Mongo DB and SQL databases like MySQL, PostgreSQL, SQLite3.  • Knowledge of Git repository hosting services.  • Ability to work through a solution end-to-end, meet project deadlines, and deliver solutions in a supportable manner.  • Knowledge of reporting tools like Tableau, Microsoft Excel, ReportLab.  • Excellent team player and strong analytical and building team spirit.  • Integration of applications with designing database architecture and server scripting, studying and establishing.  • In depth knowledge of HTTP and RESTful architecture.  • Organized production using Apache Servers with mod Python and AWS.  • Displayed and proved capability to learn any new technology and work on it.  • Documenting and maintaining reports and helping with the software release process.  • Ability to successfully multi-task and prioritize work.  • Proficient in:  • Software development using Python (libraries used: Pandas, Numpy, Spicy, Python-Twitter)  • IDEs - Sublime Text, PyCharm, Eclipse LUNA  • Good Working knowledge of Web Services | HTML | CSS | Bootstrap Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Media Services - Los Angeles, CA December 2018 to Present Media Services, is a leading payroll and production resource for the entertainment industry, exceeding client's expectation for over 35 years. Clients here range from feature film, and TV studio and producers to commercial and music video production houses along with web series developers, corporate media departments and live event organizers.    Description: Working on a project that will be used in commercial and end-user applications for payroll online and desktop applications products specially for the entertainment industry.    Responsibilities:  • Analyzed and gathered system requirement specifications and translated that requirements into the software solutions.  • Implemented web applications in Django and Flask frameworks following MVC architecture.  • Worked with millions of database records on a daily basis, finding common errors and bad data patterns and fixing them.  • Exported/Imported data between different data sources using SQL server Management Studio.  • Maintained program libraries, user's manuals and technical documentation.  • Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL DB package.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed features and applications based on consumer by using Python, Django, HTML.  • Used python libraries for statistical analysis, NumPy for Numerical Analysis.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.    • Implemented code in Python to retrieve and manipulate data.  • Also using Bootstrap as a mechanism to manage and organize the HTML page layout.    Environment:  Python, Django, HTML5/CSS, MS SQL Server 2008, MySQL, JavaScript, JIRA. Python Developer TransCash - Los Angeles, CA September 2016 to November 2018 TransCash, works on the principle of two set of Visa Debit Cards, one being reloadable and the other funded from the principle card. This two card system provides the easiest and least expensive method to share funds with family members anywhere, anytime. The user is free to use the card at a million plus ATMs and POS that accepts Visa Debit Cards worldwide.    Description: The project was to design, develop, migrate and maintain the Front End Applications. This application was an internal application of the company. This was used to provide User Interface to the Accounts department to help to reconcile the transactions originating from the processors daily XML extract.  Responsibilities:  • Used Django framework for application development.  • Assisted in reduction of cost and optimization of supplier selection for the CRM Applications.  • Provide a command line interface and XML based outputs for integration into existing build infrastructure.  • Used Graphical User Interface Testing and API driven Testing.  • Used several Python libraries like wxPython, NumPy and matPlotLib.  • Using features that support complex data structures, first class functions by using PERL.  • Experience in working on Freeform Calculation, and Lasso and Radial Selection by using Tableau.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python.  • Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Used Pandas to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Designed and developed data management system using PostgreSQL.  • Created Python and Bash tools to increase efficiency of call center application system and operations; data conversion scripts, REST, JSON and CRUD scripts for API Integration.    Environment:  HTML, Python, SVN, CSS, PostgreSQL, REST, Flask, Bootstrap, Psutil, Tableau, Tomcat, Apache Python Developer Williams-Sonoma - San Francisco, CA July 2014 to September 2016 Williams-Sonoma, is a consumer retail company that sells kitchen wares and home furnishings. It's a multi-channel specialty retailer of high quality products for the home. Each of divisions is focused on a specialty market. The flagship Sonoma catalog features a range of more than 300 professional, often exotic, products for the kitchen.    Description: Worked closely with Python developers, quality assurance team, creative team, product manager to design the inventory system for the company. This inventory system tracks the record from the manufacturing of the product to the delivery and it's warranty validations.    Responsibilities:  • Translated the customer requirements into design specifications and ensured that the requirements translate into software solution.  • Application was based on service oriented architecture and used Python, Django, Ajax, HTML, CSS for the frontend.  • Worked on backend of the application, mainly using Active Records.  • Created UI using JavaScript and HTML5/CSS.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Writing backend programming in Python.  • Used JavaScript and XML to update a portion of a webpage and Node.js for server side interaction.  • Implemented web applications in Flask and Django frameworks following MVC architecture.  • Develop consumer based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML, behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pair based programming.  • Performed Unit testing, Integration Testing, GUI and web application testing using Rspec.  • Used many regular expressions in order to match the pattern with the existing one.  • Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis and Numpy for Numerical analysis.  • Developed asynchronous notifications by using tornado.    Environment:  Python, Django, HTML5/CSS, MS SQL Server, Jasper Reports, JavaScript, Eclipse, Linux, Shell Scripting. Python Developer CashCall - Orange, CA March 2012 to June 2014 CashCall, was one of the nation's premier lenders. It specializes in low interest mortgage and home refinancing for borrowers with good to excellent credit. CashCall Mortgage streamlines the application and lending process, reducing their own costs and passed that savings on to customers.    Description: My project with the company was with tools and calculator. This tool allows user to get the estimate prices for getting quotes for payment, will they qualify for a loan or not, best loan for the individual and other property factors.    Responsibilities:  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Wrote Python scripts to XML documents and load the data in the database.  • Designed and developed application front-end GUI using JSP, HTML, JavaScript, CSS, Ajax.  • Designed controller and business logic using SpringMVCmodule.  • Developed forms using HTML and performing client side validations using JavaScript, JQuery and Bootstrap.  • Extensively developed stored procedures, triggers, functions and packages in oracle SQL, PL/SQL.  • Utilized Python in the handling of all the hits on Django, Redis, and other applications.  • Implemented SOAP using web services to interact with various devices to pull real-time data on the network.  • Loading, analyzing and extracting data to and from Oracle Database with Python.  • Used standard Python modules e.g., csv, itertools, jinja for development.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Cleansing data generated from weblogs with automated scripts in Python.  • Using Mongo DB-NoSQL database for storing the information.  • Used SVN repository for software configuration management and version control.  Environment:  Django, Python, Waterfall, JavaScript, Mongo DB, XML, SOAP based web services, Apache Web Server, Hibernate ORM, Tomcat. UI Developer SYNC Technologies, Inc - Nadiad, Gujarat November 2011 to February 2012 SYNC Technologies, Inc. is an emerging Information Technology Services Company, to support its global customers and caters to the need of worldwide business.    Responsibilities:  • Built Web pages that are more user-interactive using JQuery plugins for Drag and Drop, Autocomplete, AJAX, JSON, Angular JS, JavaScript and Bootstrap.  • Used JQuery and AJAX for service calls on pages to interact with the server for information.  • Experience on working with multiple CSS properties like layouts positioning, padding, Pseudo classes, Pseudo elements.  • Responsible for design and development of Web Pages using PHP, HTML, JOOMLA, CSS including Ajax controls and XML.  • Code Business Logic component using PHP.  • Developed UI using JavaScript, HTML, CSS, JavaScript validations and XML.  • Implemented applications in JavaScript and MYSQL.  • Worked extensively with the File management and image libraries.  • Performed Client-side validations using JavaScript.  • Fixed Bugs and provided support services for the application.  • Tested/Debugged web browser using Firebug.  • Utilized various JavaScript and JQuery libraries, AJAX for form validation and other interactive features.  • Developed a forum where users can leave their feedback, which can later be approved or deleted by the concerned administrator.  • Implemented and designed user interface for web based customer application aligned to W3C standards.  • Developed data formatted web applications and deploy the script using client side scripting using JavaScript.    Environment: MySQL, CSS, Twitter Bootstrap, JavaScript, JQUERY, Dreamweaver CS5, AJAX, MS Office, ECLIPSE, JSON. Education Bachelors in Computer Applications in Computer Applications Sardar Patel University - Gujarat, IN Skills DJANGO, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, BOOTSTRAP, PYTHON