Python Automation Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> Automation <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Automation Developer - Apple California City, CA • Around 7 years of experience as a Web Application Developer using Python and Django, FLASK  • Worked in Python Integrated Development Environments like PyCharm, Visual Studio Code.  • Experience object-oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, XML, CSS, HTML and JavaScript.  • Experience in creating python scripts for accessing data using Xpath through DOM.  • Experience in development of automation framework using Selenium Webdriver.  • Experience in developing python scripts for automation and performing functional tests and data validation.  • Excellent knowledge of OOPS, Multi-Threading and Collections concepts and in Python.  • Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS, Bootstrap and JavaScript.  • Experience in developing JSON based RESTful Webservices  • Expertise in working with server-side technologies including databases, Restful API and MVC design patterns.  • Hands on Experience in creating command-line Applications using python.  • Experience in creating Ansible playbooks.  • Experienced in Git, VSS version-control system for tracking source code.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and SQL Server database.  • Excellent debugging, problem solving, optimization and testing skills.  • Highly motivated, dedicated, quick learner and have proven ability to build and manage a team and work individually.  • Excellent written and oral communication skills with results-oriented attitude. Work Experience Python Automation Developer Apple - Sunnyvale, CA December 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Building work flows (platform: Cisco CUCM & CUC product automation) in Python for voice and video service users.  • Worked on Automating Rest API's with MySQL database.  • Created Restful end-points for CUCM users and deployed it as a micro-service using Ansible.  • Developed Command line applications in python andFLASK as a micro service and deployed using Ansible.  • Did upgrades and changes in workflow automation in python.  • Worked on Parsing xml to JSON and running migrations to DB using SQLAlchemy ORM.  • Experience in developing RESTFULWeb Services with Python programming language.  • Created test cases for the workflow development using Pytest.  • Used SQLAlchemy object-relational mapper for database migrations.  • Used GitHub for Python source code version control.    Environment: Python3, Flask, Linux, Ansible, GIT, MySQL, Postgresql, SOAP, JSON, Restful Web Services. Python Developer Applied Materials - Santa Clara, CA June 2017 to December 2018 Worked on development of Product pipeline management and Budget tracking system  Responsibilities:  • Back end web application architecture design and development in python using Django framework.  • Developed UI using HTML/CSS3 and JavaScript.  • Used Python for server-side development.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Used JSON based and RESTful API for information extraction  • Created database using MySQL, wrote several queries and used Django to extract data from database.  • Worked on automation, setup and administration of build and deployment tools such as Jenkins.  • Used GitHub for Python source code version control.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Worked closely with engineering design and product management teams to achieve critical milestones and ensure timely product delivery.  • Worked on Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment.    Environment: Python3, Linux, GIT, Django, JavaScript, MySQL, HTML, CSS, JSON, Restful Web Services. Python Automation Developer Simply Hired Inc - Sunnyvale, CA May 2014 to May 2017 Worked on developing applications, support and automation solutions.  Responsibilities:  • Used Django framework to design and develop the application.  • Used HTML5/CSS, Bootstrap, and JavaScript for UI development.  • Developed Python scripts using multithreading module.  • Used Restful API's with JSON, XML to extract Network traffic information.  • Created the Automation scripts using Python for testing applications as well as the integration of these application (API's &UI's) based on REST calls using Python, phrasing the JSON responses.  • Used JSON based and RESTful API for information extraction  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Used GitHubfor Python source code version control, Jenkins for automation.  • Worked with Marketing and Sales teams to enhance applications to suit their needs  • Debug application deployments on multiple environments.  • Worked with offshore teams and internal clients to Design and analyze the requirements of in-house applications.  • Worked on Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment.    Environment: Python 2.7,3, Django, MySQL, Jenkins, Linux, HTML, CSS, JSON, Restful Web Services, JavaScript, Apache, Linux. Python Developer TCS - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2012 to March 2014 Worked on developing in-house business applications, support and automation solutions  Responsibilities:  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Participated in the complete SDLC process.  • Created Business Logic using Python 2.7.  • Used FLASK framework for application development.  • Utilized PyTest, the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications.  • Wrote Python OO Design code for manufacturing quality, monitoring, logging, and debugging code optimization.  • Involved and played a leading role in database migration projects from Oracle to MongoDB  • Deployment and Build of various environments including Linux and UNIX  • Installed and maintained web servers Tomcat and Apache HTTP Web servers in UNIX.  • Involved in Installation and setting up Python /Linux test beds.  • Worked with JSON based REST Web services.  • Worked on automation, setup and administration of build and deployment tools such as Jenkins  • Used RESTful API with JSON for extracting Network traffic/Memory performance information.  • Created database using MySQL, wrote several queries and used FLASKto extract data from database.  • Created specific images using Python Imaging Library for the custom images used for each book.  • Effectively communicated with the external vendors to resolve queries.  • Used GIT for the version control.    Environment: Python 2.7,3, MySQL, Windows, Linux, HTML, CSS, jQuery, JavaScript, Linux. Education BS in Computer Science B.M.S College of Engineering - Bengaluru, Karnataka Skills Visual studio, C#, Django, Git, Html, Javascript, Flask, Xml, Database, Ms sql server, Sql server, Mysql, Postgresql, Sql, Ajax, Asp, Css, Dhtml, Asp.net, Linux Additional Information Technical Proficiency    • Languages:Python3/2.7, C#, JavaScript.  • Database:MYSQL, Postgresql, MS SQL Server  • Framework:Django, Flask, ASP.net  • Web technologies: HTML, DHTML, XHTML, XML, jQuery, AJAX, CSS  • Operating Systems:Windows, Mac, Linux  • Versioning Tools:GIT, VSS  • Development IDE's:PyCharm, Visual Studio Code, Eclipse