Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Intel San Jose, CA • Over 6+ years of experience in development of all phases of SDLC including design, development, testing, implementation and support using Python technologies.  • Experience in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript.  • Expertise in working with different databases like SQL, MySQL, PostgreSQL and Good knowledge in using NoSQL databases like MongoDB.  • Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache, NGINX.  • Hands on experience in working with various Version Control Systems, mostly GIT, CVS and SVN.  • Experience in implementing with server side technologies with Restful API and MVC design patterns with Django framework  • Experience with Amazon Cloud EC2, Simple Storage Service S3 and Amazon SQS.  • Excellent debugging, problem solving, optimization and testing skills.  • Highly motivated, dedicated, quick learner and have proven ability to build and manage a team and work individually. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Intel - Santa Clara, CA January 2018 to August 2019 Worked on development of spare parts processing system for Intel. This included Order processing, Invoicing and parts procurement and management.  • Designed and developed Application using Python/Django and MySQL  • Responsible for setting up Python REST API framework using DJANGO.  • Used SOAP and RESTful API for information extraction from various applications.  • Worked on cloud service, design, develop cluster on AWS service like EC2, Elastic cache.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django module to do predictive analysis of data.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed database layer including Tables and Stored procedures in MYSQL.  • Using GIT version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  Environment: Python, Django, MySQL Restful, AWS, HTML5/CSS3, JavaScript, Apache, and Linux. Python Developer GILEAD SCIENCE - Foster City, CA September 2017 to December 2018 Worked on development of application to manage Vendors and their Billings.  Responsibilities:  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Created Business Logic using Python 2.7.  • Used Django framework for application development.  • Created database-using MySQL wrote queries and Django API's to extract data from database.  • Created specific images using Python Imaging Library for the custom images used for each book.  • Wrote scripts in Python for extracting data.  • Developed rich user interface using CSS, HTML, JavaScript  • Effectively communicated with the external vendors to resolve queries.  • Used Git for the version control.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.4, MySQL, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Apache and Linux. Python Engineer Sinopec - Beijing, CN June 2013 to August 2016 Worked on development of customer support and complains registration system. This is a Post sales and Customer feedback and complains management system.  Responsibilities:  • Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Rewrite existing Python/C++/ Java module to deliver certain format of data.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using python.  • Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code  • Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  Environment: Python, Django, Java, MySQL, Linux, CSS, JavaScript, and Apache Web Server Education Master's in Applied Mathematics, Concentrate in Computer Science University of California-Berkeley December 2016 to December 2018 Skills Django, Git, Html, Javascript, Python, Flask, Svn, Xml, Database, Sql server, Mysql, Postgresql, Sql, Apache, Linux, Linux/unix, Unix, Dhtml, Cvs Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/frank2xu Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  • Languages: Python, Java, Shell Script, C++, SQL  • Framework: Django, Flask  • Database: MySQL, SQL Server, MongoDB, PostgreSQL  • Web Technologies: JavaScript, pY2EXE, HTML, DHTML, XHTML, XML  • Version Tools: Git, CVS, SVN  • Web servers: Apache, NGIX  • Operating systems: Linux/Unix, Windows, Ubuntu, Redhat, MAC OS