Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Axos Bank San Diego, CA Work Experience Python Developer Axos Bank - San Diego, CA September 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  ? Participated in the complete SDLC process.  ? Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web based solution.  ? Used Python, Django and Pyramid frameworks to develop applications and responsible for both back-end programming and front-end functionality using Ajax, Angular.JS, and other technologies.  ? Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  ? Worked on UI using HTML5, CSS3 and Angular JS.  ? Created User Controls and simple animations using Python.  ? Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  ? Developed multi-threaded standalone app in Python to view Circuit parameters and performance.  ? Developed Python batch processors to consume and produce various feeds.  ? Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  ? Developed Business Logic using Python on Django Web Framework.  ? Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  ? Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL with complete data integrity.  ? Created PHP/MySQL back-end for data entry from Flash.  ? Used JQuery and Ajax calls for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  ? Used GitHub for version control.  ? Developed SQL Queries, Stored Procedures, and Triggers Using Oracle, SQL, PL/SQL.  ? Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  ? Wrote a Python module to connect and view the status of an Apache Cassandra instance.  ? Deployed and configured Atlassian Jira, both hosted and local instances for issue tracking, workflow collaboration, and tool-chain automation.  ? Maintained version control of Python by using GIT. (Merge, Branch, Push, and Commit).  ? Developed multi-threaded standalone app in Python to view performance.  ? Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  ? Performed Version control using GIT.  ? Wrote validation scripts in SQL to validate data loading.  ? Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  Environment: Python, Django, HTML, JQuery, AJAX, Angular JS, XHTML, XML, GitHub, Flash, SQLite, MYSQL, SQL, PLSQL, JIRA, Oracle and Windows. Python Developer Pennymac - Westlake Village, CA January 2017 to August 2018 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web based solution.  ? Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS.  ? Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  ? Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  ? Rewrite existing Java application in Python module to deliver certain format of data.  ? Worked on front end frame works like Bootstrap for responsive webpages and AngularJS for Single page application.  ? Developed Python batch processors to consume and produce various feeds.  ? Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL with complete data integrity.  ? Created test harness to enable comprehensive testing utilizing Python.  ? Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  ? Performed testing using Django's Test Module.  ? Used python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  ? Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users  ? Used JIRA tool to create and update stories and for tracking project status.  ? Created Data tables utilizing PyQt to display customer and policy information and add, delete, update customer records.  ? Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  ? Used JQuery for selecting particular DOM elements when parsing HTML.  ? Worked with JSON based REST Web services.  ? Using GIT version control tool to coordinate team-development.  Environment: Python, Django, PYQT, XML, Angular JS, JQuery, DOM, JSON, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON, Rest, MY SQL, GIT, JIRA, Windows and LINUX. Python Developer Del Sur Mortgage - Napa, CA January 2016 to December 2016 Responsibilities:  ? Designed views and templates with Python Django's view controller and templating language to create a web interface.  ? Provided GUI utilizing PyQt for the end user to create, modify and view reports based on client data.  ? Prepared test data files using Linux Shell scripts, Perl script as per the business requirements.  ? Worked in consuming RESTful web services using jQuery and React.js along with JSON parsing to render the response data to User Interface.  ? Developed multi-threaded standalone application in Python to view Circuit parameters and performance.  ? Used JavaScript and JSON to update a portion of a webpage.  ? Involved in back end development using Python with Flask framework.  ? Developed web applications implementing MVT/MVC architecture using Django, Flask.  ? Used JIRA as Issue Tracking Tool.  ? Worked on API's deploying queries, status codes, requests to retrieve data in JSON format  ? Coordinated with team members to improve quality assurance and mitigate risks.  Environment: Python, PyQt, PyQuery, Django, MVW, HTML/CSS, Shell Scripting, JSON, SQL, UNIX, Windows, NumPy, jQuery, JIRA, GitHub, MVC. Python Developer Cambridge Technology Enterprises - IN September 2013 to August 2015 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in the Design, development, test, deploy and maintenance of the website.  ? UI was developed using HTML, AJAX, CSS.  ? Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  ? Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python.  ? Developed internal auxiliary web apps using Python Flask framework with CSS / HTML framework.  ? Implemented Test Driven Development (TDD) strategy for the project.  ? Developed Python batch processors to consume and produce various feeds.  ? Created database access layer using JDBC and PL/SQL stored procedures.  ? Responsible for search engine optimization to improve the visibility of the website.  ? Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  ? Use Git for version control.  ? Wrote validation scripts in SQL to validate data loading.  ? Trained users and did production support.  Environment: Python, Django, MySQL, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, Apache Web Server, Git, Linux. Python Developer Mroads - IN May 2012 to August 2013 Responsibilities:  ? Application architecture designed as per the requirements using spring framework.  ? Requirement Analysis and Estimation of project timelines.  ? Developed Python batch processors to consume and produce various feeds.  ? Generated PDF daily and Monthly statements using Aspose PDF Kit.  ? Developed internal auxiliary web apps using Python Flask framework with CSS / HTML framework.  ? Implemented Test Driven Development (TDD) strategy for the project.  ? Worked on Socket communication layers and multithreading on Linux.  ? Created database access layer using JDBC and PL/SQL stored procedures.  ? Coordinate with SMEs, other architects, and senior technical staff to identify client's needs, document assumptions, and build-out new requirements and move code through user acceptance testing.  Environment: Python, HTML, CSS, TDD, SQL, MYSQL and Windows. Education B.Tech in Computer Science Engineering in Computer Science Engineering Avanthi Institute of Engineering 2012 Skills Django, Git, Html, Javascript, Perl, Python, Flask, Subversion, Svn, Xml, Sql server, Sql server 2008, Mysql, Oracle, Sql, Apache, Linux, Linux/unix, Unix, Ajax Additional Information Technical Skills:  Languages Python, Shell Script, Perl, SQL  Python Framework Django, Webapp2, Flask  Web Technologies AJAX, JavaScript, HTML, DHTML, XHTML, XML, JQuery  Versioning Tools Subversion, GIT, Perforce, SVN, CVS  Web servers Apache, WebLogic, WebSphere  Databases MySQL, SQL Server 2008 , Oracle  Operating systems Linux/Unix, Windows Variants