Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - WELLS FARGO Work Experience Python Developer WELLS FARGO - New York, NY August 2015 to Present Description:  API Gateway Channel is an integration application developed for integrating various digital clients (Intuit, Turbo Tax etc.) to access banks data for Account Validation, Tax docs for tax filing and so on.  Responsibilities:  • Written Nova, Glance, Neutron, Cinder, Keystone, Hashborad, Swift, python client API to integrate with existing Application.  • Create a strategic architectural design of the platform with networking (vlans, firewalls, load balancers), hypervisors (kvm and VMware), workflow and orchestration (OpenStack APIs, Smart Cloud Orchestrator), security (keystone, LDAP), Inventory and monitoring, licensing, backup/restore.  • Understanding python files in openstack environment and make necessary changes if needed.  • Using Cinder to enable persistent storage for applications like databases deployed in Openstack cloud tools.  • Design roles and groups for users and resources using AWS Identity Access Management (IAM)  • Creating Cloud watch alerts for instances and using them in auto scaling launch configurations  • Developed Cloud infrastructure like compute, storage, and platform Restful services to implement OpenStack API  • Create a custom dashboard using JSF replacing an existing Horizon dashboard using the RESTful API provided by Openstack  • Used JSP, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, CSS3, and HTML5 as data and presentation layer technology  • Involve in intense User Interface (UI) operations and client side validations using AJAX toolkit.  • Developing applications using RESTFUL architecture using Node.js and PHP as backend languages.  • Designed Cloud Infrastructure as a Service environment using open source technology OpenStack to enable portability of cloud services across hybrid cloud environments.  • Experience with messaging solutions (e.g., ActiveMQ, RabbitMQ, and ZeroMQ)  • Design and development of user interfaces and client displays using Java Script, JSP, CSS and troubleshoot various issues in Python code and fix them with code enhancements- code used various python libraries such as PyJamas and Jython.  • Implementing multi-tier application provisioning in OpenStack cloud, integrating it with Ansible/Puppet.  • Utilized continuous integration and automated deployments with Jenkins, Ansible and Docker.  • Used HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON designed and developed the user interface of the website.  • Dynamic implementation of SQL server work on website using SQL developer tool and working with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins.  • Involved in the Complete Software development life cycle (SDLC) to develop the application and Worked closely with software developers and DevOps to debug software and system problems.  • Followed AGILE development methodology to develop the application and Used the GO Programming Language to refactor and redesign the legacy databases.  • Use Test driven approach (TDD) for developing services required for the application and Implemented Integration test cases and Developing predictive analytic using Apache Spark Scala APIs.  • Design front end using UI, HTML, Bootstrap, Node JS, underscore JS, Angular JS, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django including Tastypie Web Framework using Git.  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation  • Develop consumer based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML, behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pair based programming.  • Design and developed data management system using PostgreSQL.  • Wrote Python OO Design code for manufacturing quality, monitoring, logging, and debugging code optimization.  Environment:- Python 2.7/3.x, Windows, SQL and python libraries such as Numpy, sqlalchemy, sqlDB. Python Developer Onlife Health - Brentwood, TN January 2015 to August 2015 Description:  Onlife Health is a health and wellness Company that saves health care money by keeping people healthy. The aim of the project was to design and develop Enterprise Data warehouse.  Responsibilities:  • Followed the SDLC activity to fulfill the business requirements and use cases.  • Developed Python Scripts to transform data and to drive execution of SQL server.  • Create a current state process map and documentation  • Updated and maintained a web server in Unix environment and developed document flow reports using Python  • Create database triggers for data validations in Oracle  • Created job scheduling for periodic load processing using SQL and shell scripts  • Responsible for capacity planning, space management, problem resolution, database monitoring and performance tuning of Production Databases  • Analyzed business needs and drafted process maps  • Implemented discretisation, binning and data wrangling in Python  • Automated the addition of transactions to database tables by writing required packages using SQL  • Designed Unix Scripts to automate the verification of the information inserted in the database which was extensively used in Admin Module  • Worked with Agile methodology to ensure delivery of high quality work  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller  • Designer for developing various jobs to extract, cleansing, transforming, integrating and loading data into Data Warehouse  • Involved in tuning and optimization of SQL statements and Managed Backend using Python and MVC framework Django  • Worked on development and maintenance of SQL code embedded in PL/SQL  • Managed and support outages during urgency and Supported compliance to all regulatory and audit requirements  • Provided 24x7 support during application deployment  • Established a connection between Oracle and Python for the transformation module  • Implemented hash tables in Unix shell scripting to retrieve data faster  • Responsible for scripting data manipulation using SQL  • Performed periodic analysis of business critical systems to provide issue resolution if needed  • Maintained complete documentation of trading module, system maintenance requirements  Environment: Python, DBI/DBD, Oracle 11g, PL/SQL, SQLPLUS, SQL*Loader, Unix Python Developer Microsoft, Redmond January 2013 to December 2014 Description:  Microsoft Certifications To generate the required operational reports for the business, the team had to extract data manually from multiple sources, which were in a multitude of formats, and convert sources into a single standard format before compiling the reports.  Responsibilities:  • Gathered all requirements for developing and analyzing requirement of projects.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django including Tasty pie Web Framework using Git.  • Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  • Developed Ruby on Rails 3 web applications using MongoDB and back-ground processes using Resque and Redis  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Used Test driven approach for developing the application and Implemented the unit tests using Python Unittest framework.  • Developed Ruby/ Python scripts to monitor health of Mongo databases and perform ad-hoc backups using Mongo dump and Mongo restore.  • Familiar with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services (AWS)  • Dynamic implementation of SQL server work on website using SQL developer tool.  • Experienced in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM Process.  • Designed front end using UI, HTML, Bootstrap, Node JS, underscore JS, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Involved in the Complete Software development life cycle (SDLC) to develop the application. Also used Numpy for Numerical analysis.  • Followed AGILE development methodology to develop the application.  • Used and customized apache server to for checking our developed project.  • Used Test driven approach (TDD) for developing services required for the application.  • Implemented Integration test cases.  • Worked on MongoDB database concepts such as locking, transactions, indexes, Sharding, replication, schema design  • Used Git to resolve and coding the work on Python and portlet.  • Used several Python libraries like wxPython, numPY and matPlotLib.  • Was involved in environment, code installation as well as the SVN implementation.  • Build all database mapping classes using Django models and Apache Cassandra.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  ENVIRONMENT: Python 2.7, PyQT, PyQuery, MVW, HTML5, CSS3, DOM, Shell Scripting, JSON, Rest, Apache Web Server, Django, SQL, UNIX, Windows, MongoDB, PostgreSQL, and Pythonlibraries such as Numpy, IPython, sqlalchemy, Django Tastypie. Python Developer Microsoft - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2011 to November 2012 Description:  Microsoft Certifications To generate the required operational reports for the business, the team had to extract data manually from multiple sources, which were in a multitude of formats, and convert sources into a single standard format before compiling the reports.  Responsibilities:  • Participated in the complete SDLC process and used PHP to develop website functionality.  • Coding in LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and PHP) environment.  • Developed GUI HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS 5 and JavaScript (jQuery)  • Worked mainly on Core Java, C++, STL, data structures, UNIX, multithreading.  • Built application logic using Python2.7.  • Used Apache Couchdb (NoSQL) in AWS Linux instance in parallel to RDS MySQL to store and analyze job  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML  • Wrote AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Datatables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings.  • Used the Django Framework to develop the application and Used Django APIs for database access.  • UIS system design ( Python Object Oriented Design approach, developing various Modules/packages/utilities, e.g.: Cryptography - Encryption/Hashing, Foundation Utilities, and Personal Management, error/exception management etc.)  • Used python to extract weekly hotel availability information from XML files.  • Used Web Services to get travel destination data and rates.  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures on MYSQL.  • Developed shopping cart for Library and integrated web services to access the payment (E- commerce)  Environment: Python, Windows, Django, MySql, Linux, HTML, CSS, JQuery, JavaScript, Apache. Programmer Analyst Global Inc. Solutions September 2010 to May 2011 Description:  Implementation of BI as a reporting tool to develop various reports for the analysis of Child Support Enforcement Program.  Responsibilities:  • Updated and maintained a web server in Unix environment  • Worked on development and maintenance of SQL code embedded  • Work with team of developers on Python applications for Inventory Management  • Created HTML forms and used Perl scripting language for online querying and reporting for order entry module and Inventory module  • Involved in SQL debugging and support and Managed and support outages during urgency  • Designed the front end of the application using Python, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON and JQuery  • Supported compliance to all regulatory and audit requirements  • Performed periodic analysis of business critical systems to provide issue resolution if needed.  • Wrote Unix Korn scripts to manipulate the data and then load it into database  • Used SQL to filter and load data from other production databases  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript  • Wrote Python code embedded with JSON and XML to produce HTTP GET request, parsing HTML data from websites  • Designed an HTML interface for a JavaScript- and Perl-driven price  • Monitored and trouble shooted the data loading problems of Informatica  • Maintained complete documentation of trading module, system maintenance requirements.  • Developed tables and SQL packages, procedures and functions  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database  • Used Oracle SQL to generate schema and retrieve data  • Designing mobile search application system requirements and coded back-end and front-end in Python  • Wrote scripts in Unix shell and Perl to streamline indexing process  • Involved in data load using SQL and SQL*Loader and Resolved ongoing problems and accurately documented progress of Python  • Worked on performance tuning and monitoring of database  • Involved in requirement analysis, database design, coding, testing, implementation and review.  • Developed SQL code to work with Workflow design  • Used Python to interface with the JQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  Environment: Perl, DBI/DBD, SQL, Oracle PL/SQL, SQLPLUS, SQL*Loader, UNIX, HTML, JavaScript, Informatica. Education Bachelor's Skills PYTHON (8 years), SQL (8 years), CSS (8 years), HTML (8 years), DJANGO (8 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:-    Frameworks: Django, web2py, Flask, Struts, pylons and CSS Bootstrap, TurboGears, web2py, Openstack  Web Technologies: HTML, CSS, DOM, SAX, Java Script, JQuery, AJAX, XML, Angular.JS  Programming Languages: Python, Java, SQL and PL/SQL.  Version Control: Git (GitHub), SVN, CVS  IDE's Tools: NetBeans, Eclipse, PyCharm, and Sublime Text.  Web Services: AWS, Amazon S3, Google Cloud Platform    Operating Systems: Windows, Red hat Linux, MAC OSX.