PYTHON DEVELOPER <span class="hl">PYTHON</span> <span class="hl">DEVELOPER</span> PYTHON DEVELOPER - Cisco San Jose, CA • Have 6 years of experience with full software development life-cycle, architecting scalable platforms, object-oriented programming, database design and agile methodologies.  • React and Functional Driven JavaScript expert in SPAs, UI Components, Mobile web and Performance optimization.  • Built Web application using Python, Django, Flask, JavaScript, AJAX, HTML and template languages.  • Used Apache to deploy production site.  • Experience in developing web-based applications using Python 3.4/2.7, Django.  • Experienced in MVC frameworks like Django, Angular JS, React JS, Java Script, jQuery.  • Developed web applications and RESTful web services and APIs using Python Flask, Django, Pyramid.  • Proficient in importing/exporting large amounts of data from files to Teradata and vice versa.  • Developed the DW ETL scripts using BTEQ, Stored Procedures, Macros in Teradata.  • Development of scripts for loading the data into the base tables in EDW using FastLoad, MultiLoad and BTEQ utilities of Teradata.  • Created numerous scripts with Teradata utilities BTEQ, MLOAD and FLOAD.  • Experienced in Python's modules Numpy, MatPlotLib, Pickle, Pandas, Pyside, Scipy, wxPython, PyTables PyQt, Scikit-learn etc. for generating complex graphical data, creation of histograms etc.  • Expertise in using Redux library function.  • Strong experience using Web Services and API's in python.  • Experience in using Design Patterns such as MVC and frameworks such as Django, Flask.  • Proficient in SQL databases MySQL, PostgreSQL, Oracle and MongoDB.  • Hands on experience working in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL and Python/PHP) Architecture.  • SQL Reference Mapper, using Regular Expressions Successfully mapped over a hundred thousand SQL references inside of SQL Object source code, VB code, SSRS reports, and DTS packages.  • Worked on various applications using python integrated IDEs Eclipse, PyCharm, NetBeans.  • Good experience in developing web applications and implementing Model View Control (MVC) architecture using server-side applications like Django, Flask and Pyramid.  • Written and developed scripts for automating tasks using Jenkins and UNIX shell programming.  • Performed Unit testing, Integration Testing and generating of test cases for web applications using Junit and Python Unit test framework.  • Familiar and worked on various Operating Systems like UNIX (Sun Solaris, AIX), Linux and Windows.  • Experience in developing web Services with Python programming language.  • Experience in using UNIX shell Scripts for automating batch programs.  • Good knowledge in maintaining various version controls systems such as GIT, SVN, CVS and Source Tree.  • Experience in Application Development and Object-Oriented Programming Analysis and Design (OOAD).  • Experience Object Oriented Programming (OOP) concepts using Python, C++ and JAVA. Work Experience PYTHON DEVELOPER Cisco - San Jose, CA July 2018 to Present Responsibilities:    • Involved in the development of front end of the application using Python 2.7, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JSON and JQuery and worked on backend of the application, mainly using Active Records.  Developed dynamic web pages using Python, Django Frameworks.  • Developed monitoring and notification tools using Python.  • Improved the application by designing and developing it using HTML and JavaScript.  Used data structures like dictionaries, tupples, object-oriented class-based inheritance features for making complex algorithms of networks.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing python, in order to build an interactive web-based solution.  • Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users.  • Wrote a Python module to connect and view the status of an Apache Cassandra instance.  Developed MVC prototype replacement of current product with Django.  • Significantly improved report generation efficiency by caching, reusing and improve the security level of data.  • Worked on automation and continuous integration process with Cloud bees Enterprise Jenkins.  Used Jenkins for Continuous Integration and deployment into Tomcat Application Server.  • Installed and configured Jenkins for Automating Deployments and providing an automation solution.  • Integrated GIT into Jenkins to automate the code check-out process.  • Wrote scripts to integrate API's with third party applications. Python/Django based web application, PostgreSQL, and integrations with third party email, messaging, storage services.  Wrote Python normalizations scripts to find duplicate data in different environments.  • Engaged in understanding PHP Code and re-build the code in Python.  • Worked on serializing data using Serializes in Django Rest Framework.  • Rewrite existing Java, C++ application in Python.  • Generated Python Django forms to record data of online users and used PyTest for writing test cases.  • Implementing change requests raised by user for server configuration, kernel tuning, software installation and OS hardening, Managing Linux VMs using Puppet as per some projects requirement.  • Used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Developed Python OO Design code for manufacturing quality, monitoring, logging, and debugging code optimization.  • Responsible for analysis, design, development and integration of Market Risk applications with FLEX/JAVA/ PYTHON.  • Used Python to place data into JSON files for testing Django Websites.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web-based solution.  • Wrote Python routines to log into the websites and fetch data for selected options.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django, Beautifulsoup, HTML5, AWS, CSS/CSS3, Bootstrap, XML, JSON, JavaScript, jQuery, Restful Web services, Apache, Linux, Git, Amazon s3, Jenkins, MySQL, Mongo DB, T-SQL, Eclipse PYTHON DEVELOPER BOFA - Plano, TX February 2017 to April 2018 Responsibilities:    • Developed strategic partnerships with the business unit to develop a solid knowledge base of the business line, including the business plan, products and processes.  • Created Use-Case diagrams and State diagrams using MS Visio.  • Created entire application using Python, Django, MySQL and Linux.  • Implemented and tested many features for dashboard using Flask, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture.  • Creation and deployment of AWS EC2 environments for proof of concept of design assumptions.  • Introduced to encapsulate the existing structures used by Keymap and help S3 Index/Keymap scale infinitely.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation.  • Utilized PyUnit, the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications.  • Wrote Python OO Design code for manufacturing quality, monitoring, logging, and debugging code optimization.  • Designing ETL process and creation of ETL design and system design documents.  • Involved in Installation and setting up Python /Linux test beds.  • Worked with JSON based REST Web services.  • Architecting and deploying AWS EC2 and S3-based environments  • Worked in Python on a SQL database.  • Delivered presentations on Project Status and Current Open Issues Report to Users, Stakeholders and other involved groups.  • Conducted weekly meetings with the development and testing team to relay any changed requirements and updates on the development and testing.  • Played a key role in the planning, testing, and implementing system enhancements and conversions.  • Worked closely with project manager in handling the whole project.  Environment: Python 3.x, Django, Flask, Shell Scripting, AWS, Pandas, PyUnit, OOAD, MS Visio, HTTP, JSON, PHP, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JavaScript, Bootstrap, Apache Web Server, MYSQL, GitHub, LINUX. PYTHON DEVELOPER NFC - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2015 to April 2016 India  Responsibilities:  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators, and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Developed Business Logic using Python on Flask Web Framework.  • Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) for improved efficiency of storage and fast access.  Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Involved in front end and utilized Bootstrap and Angular.js for page design.  Created Data tables utilizing PyQt to display customer and policy information and add, delete, update customer records.  • Worked on UI using HTML5, CSS3 and Java Scripts.  • Developed multi-threaded standalone app in Python and PHP to view performance.  • Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Working in team of Architects and Developers to build and deploy Python Flask Peewee Linux AWS.  • Involved in writing stored procedures using MySQL.  Environment: Python, Flask, Vugen, SoapUI, Node.JS, REST API, Bash, PyDev, Spyder, Agile. PYTHON DEVELOPER iGATE - Hyderabad, Telangana January 2013 to April 2015 India  Responsibilities:    • Involved in development of entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Involved Developed dynamic web pages using python Django Frameworks and used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation Installation and setting up Python/Unix test beds and supported Apache Server on Linux Platform.  • Used the continuous integration (CI/CD) tool Jenkins for automating the build processes.  • Created Database tables, functions, stored procedures and wrote prepared statements using PL/SQL.  • Used REST and SOAPUI for testing web service for server-side changes.  • Embedded AJAX in UI to update small portions of the web page avoiding the need to reload the entire page.  • Wrote scripts in Python for extracting data from HTML file.  • Involved in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support. Maintaining the scripts using the version Control.  • Involved in development of Python APIs to dump the array structures in the Processor at the failure point for debugging.  • Developed user interfaces using HTML and JavaScript.  • Created a Git repository and added the project to GitHub.  • Utilized Agile process and JIRA issue management to track sprint cycles.  Environment: Python, DJango, Git, Jenkins, HTML, CSS, Rest, Soap, MySQL, SQL, PyQt, PyUnit Skills Visual studio, C++, Html, Javascript, Bootstrap, Php, Python, Visio, Xml, Sql server, Sql server 2008, Mysql, Oracle, Oracle 10g, Sql, Apache, Linux, Solaris, Unix, Css Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Languages C, C++, Python, JavaScript, PHP, XML, JAVA, SQ  Databases MySQL, SQL Server 2008, Oracle 10g  Web Technologies JavaScript, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap  Operating Systems UNIX, Linux, Solaris, Windows, DOS, VMware  Application Tools MySQL Workbench, PyCharm, eclipse, Jupyter, visual studio  Version Control GitHub  Application Servers Web logic, JBoss, IBM WebSphere, Apache tomcat5.5  Development IDE PyCharm, Pydev Eclipse, Vim, Net beans, MS Visio, Sublime Text, Notepad++  Methodologies Agile, Scrum, Waterfall