Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Fifth Third Bank Cincinnati, OH • Having 5 years of experience as a Web Application Developer and coding using Python, Django, Java, Spring.  • Experienced with full Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), architecting scalable platforms, object oriented programming, database design and agile methodologies.  • Good Experience with Django, a high-level Python Web framework.  • Experience in developing web-based applications using Python 2.7/2.6, Django 1.4/1.3, PHP, Flask, Webapp2, Angular.js, VB, C++, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Experienced in LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python) Architecture.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, Java, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML and JavaScript.  • Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache.  • Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Familiar with JSON based REST Web services.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Wrote AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings.  • Experience with WAMP and LAMP environments.  • Proficient in Front end development experience using HTML, XML, CSS, JQuery, JSON, JavaScript, CSS and Bootstrap.  • Experience with Web Development, Web Services, Python and the Django framework.  • Experience in working on Application Servers like WebSphere, WebLogic, Tomcat, Web Servers like Apache Server, NGINX and Integrated Development Environments like PyCharm, Eclipse, MyEclipse, JDeveloper and RAD.  • Experience configuring and developing with different Database servers including MySQL, MSSQL, Oracle and Mongo Db.  • Experience in using UNIX shell Scripts for automating batch programs.  • Experience includes Database Design, Analysis and Development with MySQL, Oracle 10g/9i, SQL Server.  • Hands on experience programming with C++ PYTHON, DJANGO and AJAX technologies.  • Experienced in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM Process.  • Strong Knowledge of web application security and access control.  • Highly motivated, dedicated, quick learner and have proven ability to build and manage a team and work individually.  • Excellent written and oral communication skills with results-oriented attitude.  • Excellent debugging, problem solving, optimization and testing skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Fifth Third Bank - Cincinnati, OH April 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Analyzed and Designed application and created UI using JavaScript and HTML5/CSS. Implemented business logic using Python/Django.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Created backend database T-SQL stored procedures and Jasper Reports.  • Worked with millions of database records on a daily basis, finding common errors and bad data patterns and fixing them.  • Exported/Imported data between different data sources using SQL Server Management Studio.  • Maintained program libraries, users' manuals and technical documentation.  • Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Thorough knowledge in various front end tools like HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript, XML, JQuery, Angular JS, and AJAX  • Hands-on experience in writing and reviewing requirements, architecture documents, test plans, design documents, quality analysis and audits.  • Built various graphs for business decision-making using Python Matplotlib library.  • Fetched twitter feeds for certain important keyword using python-twitter library.  • Used Python Library Beautiful Soup for Web Scrapping.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Deployed with Fabric on AWS on EC2 instance with Postgres RDS and S3 file storage.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  • Created most important Business Rules which are useful for the scope of project and needs of customers  • Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  • Work with team of developers on python applications for RISK management.  • Taken part in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Implementation, Testing and support. Created project designs utilizing MVC architecture components.  • Used Pandas library for statistics Analysis and added support for open stock.  • Created most important Business Rules which are useful for the scope of project and needs of customers.  • Designed the architecture of the hardware environments and methodology of the code  • Experienced in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM Process and added unit tests and improved existing ones.  • Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all of its commands.  • Refactored existing project to make it more Restful and thread-safe.  • Designed Restful XML web service for handling AJAX requests.    Environment: Python, Django, HTML5/CSS, SVN, UNIX, T-SQL, Jasper, Reports, JavaScript, Eclipse, Shell Scripting, RESTful, Amazon BotoPil, Linux, Windows. Python Developer Apache - Houston, TX March 2016 to March 2018 Responsibilities:  • Translated the customer requirements into design specifications and ensured that the requirements translate into software solution.  • Application was based on service oriented architecture and used Python, Django, JSF, Spring, Ajax, HTML, CSS for the frontend.  • Designed the front end of the application using Python, Java, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON and JQuery.  • Analyzed system requirements specifications and also in client interaction during requirements specifications.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Writing backend programming in Python.  • Used JavaScript and XML to update a portion of a webpage and Node.js for server side interaction.  • Implemented web applications in Flask and spring frameworks following MVC architecture.  • Used spring, JDBC and JPA at persistence layer (DAO).  • Used Adobe CQ for helping with reusing the components and templates for creating different web pages.  • Develop consumer based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML, behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pair based programming.  • Used Numpy for Numerical analysis for Insurance premium.  • Performed Unit testing, Integration Testing, GUI and web application testing using Rspec.  • Experience with advanced CSS concepts and also building table-free layouts.  • Worked on front end frame works like CSS Bootstrap for development of Web applications.  • Experienced in writing SQL Queries and implementing stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, Cursors, triggers.  • Collaborate with Product Management and User Experience experts regarding product definition, schedule, scope and project-related decisions.  • Analyzed digital consumer experiences based on foundation of the Adobe CQ/AEM product suite.  • Manage, collaborate and coordinate the work of an offshore development team.  • Special skills in developing user friendly, simple yet effective web based applications.  • Deployed the project into Heroku using GIT version control system.  • Worked in PostgreSQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization and denormalization.  • Used many regular expressions in order to match the pattern with the existing one.  • Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  • Skilled in using collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  • Work with team of developers on python applications for RISK management.  • Taken part in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Used Pandas library for statistics Analysis.  • Improved code reuse and performance by making effective use of various design patterns.  • Created most important Business Rules which are useful for the scope of project and needs of customers.  • Designed the architecture of the hardware environments and methodology of the code.  • Experienced in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM Process.  • Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all of its commands.    Environment: Python, Django, HTML5, CSS, XML, PostgreSQL, Java, JavaScript, Angular JS, Backbone JS, JQuery, CSS Bootstrap, Puppet MS SQL Server, Nginix server, Jenkins, Mongo DB, T-SQL, Eclipse, Git, GitHub, Linux, Windows. Python Developer Caterpillar - Peoria, IL August 2014 to February 2016 Responsibilities:  • Used Django framework for application development.  • Developed user interface using, CSS, HTML, JavaScript and JQuery& Ruby on rails.  • Assisted in reduction of cost and optimization of supplier selection for the CRM Applications.  • Ensured high quality data collection and maintaining the integrity of the data.  • Cleaned data and processed third party spending data into maneuverable deliverables within specific formats with Excel macros and python libraries.  • Used several python libraries like wxPython, numPY and matPlotLib.  • Involved in environment, code installation as well as the SVN implementation.  • Build all database mapping classes using Django models and cassandra.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code  • This project also used other technologies like JQuery for java script manipulations, bootstrap for the front-end html layout.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Developed, tested and debugged software tools utilized by clients and internal customers.  • Coded test programs and evaluated existing engineering processes.  • Designed and configured database and back end applications and programs.  • Performed research to explore and identify new technological platforms.  • Collaborated with internal teams to convert end user feedback into meaningful and improved solutions.  • Resolved ongoing problems and accurately documented progress of a project.    Environment: Python, Scipy, Pandas, BugZilla, SVN, C++, Java, JQuery, MySQL, Linux, Eclipse, Shell Scripting, HTML, CSS. Red hat Linux, Apache RUBY, Cassandra, Windows. Skills C++, Django, Git, Html, Bootstrap, Jenkins, Json, Python, Flask, Scripting, Svn, Xml, Jdbc, Mysql, Oracle, Sql, Sqlite, Eclipse, J2ee, Java