Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Bank of America • Over 5+ Years of experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Testing, Customization, Bug fixes, Enhancement, Support and Implementation of various web, stand-alone, client-server enterprise applications using Python, C, Django, Django Rest Framework in various domains. Good experience in Python, Django, Zope, Bottle.py, Pyramid Framework.  • Having experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Experience in the Hadoop ecosystem components like HDFS, Spark with Scala and python, Zookeeper, Yarn, MapReduce, Pig, Sqoop, HBase, Hive, Flume, Cassandra, MongoDB, Oozie, Kafka, Flume, and TEZ.  • Experience in utilizing SAS Functions, SAS Procedures, and Macros for data updates, data cleansing, and reporting.  • Experience with Apache Kafka JMS and Rabbit MQ as the message oriented middleware.  • Working Knowledge of Pandas, Numpy, Scipy. Good working knowledge of Deep Learning Python libraries.  • Working knowledge of data science architectures, design patterns, and modules such as Keras, TensorFlow, Scikit-Learn, NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib, H2o, and ML-Lib.  • Good understanding of cloud based DAG and Apache Air Flow.  • Experience of software development in Python (libraries used: libraries- BeautifulSoup, numpy, scipy, matplotlib, python-twitter, OpenCV, Pandas dataframe, networkx, urllib2, MySQLdb for database connectivity) and IDEs - sublime text, Spyder, pycharm, emacs.  • Experienced in MVW frameworks like Django, Angular.js, Java Script, JQuery and Node.js.  • Proficient in Front end development experience using HTML, XML, CSS, JQuery, JSON and Javascript, CSS, Bootstrap.  • Expert knowledge of and experience in Object oriented Design and Programming concepts.  • Experience object oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, C++ and PHP.  • Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, Python/PHP) Architecture.  • Experience with JSPm Servlets, Web Services (SOAP, REST) and Tomcat. Effective in executing multiple tasks and assignments ahead of schedule. Created and maintained effective budgets.  • Proficient in SQL databases MySQL, Oracle and no-SQL databases MongoDB, Cassandra, Sqlite 3.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Excellent experience with Python development under Linux OS (Debian, Ubuntu, SUSE Linux, RedHat Linux, Fedora)  • Good knowledge of server Apache Tomcat, Web logic.  • Hands on SVN, Git, JIRA, Bugzilla, Axosoft, Amazon EC2/S3.  • Experience in leading multiple efforts to build Hadoop platforms, maximizing business value by combining data science with big data.  • Import the historical data from RDBMS into HDFS using Sqoop.  • Experience in installing, configuring and using eco-System components like Hadoop MapReduce, HDFS, Hbase, Pig, Flume. Hands-on experience in Unix and Linux Kernels.  • Ability to manage (Multiple) project tasks with changing priorities and tight deadlines. Ability to work well in a team. Open to Team related tasks, team meetings, team interaction and conference calls.  • Demonstrated ability to work well with a wide variety of people at various levels, foster cooperation and collaboration among individuals in the work unit, help team resolve conflicts constructively and ability and willingness to communicate when help is needed.  • Experienced in design patterns such as MVC using Django, Flask and deploying application on Apache tomcat server, containerizing applications using Docker.  • Strong expertise in development of web-based applications using Python, Java, HTML, XML, KML, Angular JS, CSS, DHTML, JavaScript, JSON and jQuery.  • Responsible for design and development of Web Pages using PHP, HTML, JOOMLA, CSS including Ajax controls and XML.  • Responsible for designing, developing, testing, deploying and maintaining the web application. Experience with Design, code, and debug operations, reporting, data analysis and web applications utilizing Python.  • Experience in Setup hosting on AWS EC2 instance and used Amazon SES for email delivery and hands-on experience on SCM tools like GIT, containers like Docker etc.  • Backend applications using Python/Flask/Django and SQL/ PostgreSQL. Hands-on experience in writing and reviewing requirements, architecture documents, test plans, design documents, quality analysis and audits.  • Familiar with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services (AWS) and Responsible for setting up Python REST API framework and spring frame work using Django  • Good experience in developing web applications implementing MVT architecture using Django, Flask, web application frameworks, with good understanding of Django ORM and SQL Alchemy.  • Experience in AWS Cloud services such as EC2, S3, EBS, VPC, ELB, Route53, Cloud Watch, Security Groups, Cloud Trail, IAM, Cloud Front, Snowball, RDS and Glacier.  • Responsible for writing Python code to simplify lists in Python with list comprehension and Python OOP. Worked with POSTMAN for API testing. Developed REST APIs and created User Model for application.  • Expertise in test automation and continuous delivery of web applications, client server applications, web services/REST APIs Testing, with Python.  • Have good knowledge on NoSQL databases like Mongo DB and SQL databases like MySQL, PostgreSQL, SQLite3.  • Good experience in software development using Python and using its libraries and modules like NumPy, Pandas, SciPy Pickle, Jupiter, SciPy, Python-twitter, Matplotlib, urllib2 for data analytics and rapid development.  • A self starter with a positive attitude, willingness to learn new concepts and acceptance of challenges. Work Experience Python Developer Bank of America - Englewood, CO July 2018 to Present • Involved in the development of front end of the application using Python 3.4, HTML5, CSS3, bootstrap 3.0, AJAX, JSON and Jquery. Designed a Web Application based on Multi-Tier Architecture using the current most popular web technologies like HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and RESTful Web Services.  • Created a Python/Django based web application using Python scripting for data processing, MySQL for the database, and HTML/CSS/jQuery and High Charts for data visualization of the served pages.  • Involved in development of Python APIs to dump the array structures in the Processor at the failure point for debugging.  • Achieved business process automation via applications developed using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Used Pyspark, SparkSQL in making pipelines to extract data coming from MDL in spark environment.  • Used POSTGRE SQL, also worked with Hadoop.  • Built data pipelines and Machine Learning (ML) models that run in production in collaboration with software engineers using the tools like Numpy, SciKit.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity. Used Scala programming to perform transformations and applying business logic.  • Involved in converting Hive/SQL queries into Spark transformations using Spark RDDs, Python and Scala.  • Used Scala to convert Hive/SQL queries into RDD transformations in Apache Spark.  • Designed some of the SAS data models using Base SAS and SAS Macros.  • Modified and created SAS datasets from various input sources like flat files, CSV, and other formats, created reports and tables from existing SAS datasets.  • Assisted in the migration of existing SAS programs from SAS 9.2 to SAS 9.4 and validate the resultant datasets.  • Performed Compatibility testing of applications for dynamic and static content of browsers using HTML Ids and XPath in Selenium.  • Developed Automation Scripts for Regression using Selenium Web Driver and Python.  • Worked on Integration of Selenium RC/WebDriver with existing API to test Framework.  • Designed recognition models for both handwritten and text-based characters capable of continuous learning using deep neural networks leveraging both Keras and TensorFlow machine learning frameworks in addition to NumPy.  • Designed and implemented open source AI frameworks - Pytorch, TensorFlow, Scikit-learn, Apache Open Source (Kafka, Storm, Spark) for NLP and ML Algorithms.  • Tracking operations using sensors until certain criteria is met using Air Flow technology.  • Explored DAG's, their dependencies and logs using Air Flow pipelines for automation.  • Used Air Flow to keep track of job statuses in repositories like MySQL and Postgre databases.  • Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, Jinja, Oracle DB, PostgreSQL, and VMWare API calls.  • Developed consumer-based features and applications using Python, Django, tasty pie, pyramid, Flask, Web2py, HTML, jinja and other web technologies.  • Created Python and Bash tools to increase efficiency of retail management application system and operations; data conversion scripts, AMQP/ Rabbit MQ, REST, JSON, and CRUD scripts for API Integration.  • Developed and maintained parsing modules, which read CSV, XML and JSON data from files and other REST services, processed the data. Extensively used Django micro service framework for simple request and response.  • Utilized tools such as Python, Tableau, R etc. to perform complex data analysis and visualizations.  • Used Machine learning concepts- common families of models, feature engineering & selection, cross-validation and parameter tuning  • Created a Python/Django based web application using Python scripting for data processing, MySQL for the database, and HTML/CSS/jQuery and High Charts for data visualization of the served pages.  • Developed Microservices by creating REST APIs and used them to access data from different suppliers and to gather network traffic data from servers.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package  • Involved in development of Web Services using REST for sending and getting data from the external interface in the JSON format.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Created Restful back-end service deployed on Li bode cloud VPS's using django web framework and SQL Alchemy ORM for data persistence.  • Created UI using JavaScript and HTML5. Designed and developed data management system using MySQL. Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  • Installed Wit be, Python, Jira, test Rail as part of server setups. Built AWS server for deployment and data processing. Implemented a Continuous Delivery pipeline with Docker, Jenkins and GitHub, Nexus, Maven and AWS AMI's.  • Involved in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support. Maintaining the scripts using the version Control.  • Involved in Web application penetration testing process, web crawling process to detect and exploit SQL Injections Vulnerabilities.  • Wrote automate Python Script for testing program to store machine detection alarm when Pump experience overloading to Amazon cloud.  • Developed UI using CSS, HTML, JavaScript, AngularJS, jQuery and JSON. Developed dynamic webpages through HTML5, CSS, JavaScript and AJAX.  • Extracted the actual data of HTML format and predicted raw data; interpreted and stored predicted one in well-organized JSON files.  • Used Chef, deployed and configured Elasticsearch, Log stash and Kibana (ELK) for log analytics, full text search, application monitoring in integration with AWS Lambda and CloudWatch.  • Created Terraform scripts for EC2 instances, Elastic Load balancers and S3 buckets. Implemented Terraform to manage the AWS infrastructure and managed servers using configuration management tools like Chef and Ansible.  • Designed and managed build and release methodologies using Wit be Tool. Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture.  • Used Apache CouchDB (NoSQL) in AWS Linux instance in parallel to RDS MySQL to store and analyze job market info  • Implemented programming automations using Jenkins and Ansible on Unix/Linux based OS over cloud like Docker.  • Built an AWS and REDIS server for storing the data and performed defect analysis and interaction with Business Users during UAT/SIT. Developed Restful Microservices using Django and deployed on AWS servers using EBS and EC2.  • Involved in CI/CD pipeline for deploying to dev, QA and prod environments using Jenkins, Bamboo and Docker.  • Designed, configured, and deployed Amazon Web Services (AWS) for applications utilizing the AWS stack (Including EC2, Route53, S3, RDS, Cloud Formation, Cloud Watch, SQS, IAM), focusing on high-availability, fault tolerance, and auto-scaling.  • Built servers using AWS: Importing volumes, launching EC2, RDS, creating security groups, auto-scaling, load balancers (ELBs) in the defined virtual private connection.  • Created network architecture on AWS VPC, subnets, Internet Gateway, Route. Perform S3 buckets creation, configured the storage on S3 buckets, policies and the IAM role-based policies.  • AWS Import/Export accelerates moving large amounts of data into and out of AWS using portable storage devices for transport.  • Worked on creating and documenting POC for helping migrate the current application to micro service architecture. The architecture included Docker as the container technology with Kubernetes and worked on with REST API.  • Automated the continuous integration and deployments using Jenkins, Docker, Ansible and AWS Cloud Templates. Created Docker images, upload/download in and out from the Docker Hub.  • Designed, developed, implemented, and maintained solutions for using Docker, Jenkins, Git, and Puppet for Microservices and continuous deployment.  • Worked on NoSQL technologies like MongoDB, Cassandra and relational databases like Oracle, SQLite, PostgreSQL, Dynamo DB and MySQL database.  • Implemented Docker containers to create images of the applications and dynamically provision slaves to Jenkins CI/CD pipelines.  • Development of code in Python and move developed code into Company's Source control Bitbucket and Deploy into Company's Sever using CI/CD procedures like Jenkins on Scrum-basis.  • Containerized and Deployed the ETL and REST services on AWS ECS through the CI/CD Jenkins pipe  • Organized data exchange and integration with customers and third-party systems using CSV, XLS, XML, DBF, JSON, REST, and SOAP. Python Developer Infosys October 2015 to December 2017 • Involved in software development life cycle (SDLC) of tracking the requirements, gathering, analysis, detailed design, development, system testing and user acceptance testing.  • Extensive usage of User Controls and ASP.NET server controls.  • Developed and program Python scripts of automation procedure with provided API and JSON data to connect and communicate embedded hardware system, based on design documents and business objectives, including developer testing activities, like unit testing, regression testing, integration testing.  • Trained staff on effective use of Jenkins, Docker, GitLab and Kubernetes.  • Coordination of Middleware project components into releases for deployment into testing regions and production.  • Wrote SQL and implemented ORM using JPA and developed front end features using React/Redux/ES6 with Web pack.  • Analyzed global trading data, wrote SQL stored procedures to extract trading data from multiple databases to report Global Trading Metrics (blocks, allocations, notional, late and not confirmed trades.  • Designed, Configured and managed public/private cloud infrastructures utilizing Amazon Web Services (AWS) including EC2, Auto-Scaling, Elastic Load Balancer, Elastic Beanstalk, S3, Cloud Front, RDS, VPC, Route53, Cloud Watch, Cloud Formation, IAM, EBS, RDS, SNS, SQS, Redshift.  • Managed continuous build and share progress with Confluence, Bamboo and SVN.  • Instituted configuration and systems management via Ansible; inventoried and standardized system configurations and package installations; trained other team members in the use of Git and Ansible.  • Conducted system requirements sessions and documented requirements.  • Deliver Big Data Products including re-platforming Legacy Global Risk Management System with BigData Technologies such as Hadoop, Hive and HBase. Worked with NoSQL Mongo DB and heavily worked on Hive, Hbase and HDFS.  • Involved in designing application system requirements and coded back-end and front-end in Django/ Pythonand Used React-Router to turn application into Single Page Application.  • Managed local deployments in Kubernetes, creating local cluster and deploying application containers.  • Developed front-end code with Ajax call in AngularJS and jQuery to retrieve data as JSON Object from controllers in back-end RESTful Server.  • Performed AWS Cloud administration managing EC2 instances, S3, Cloud Formation, SES and SNS services.  • Involved in designing user interactive web pages as the front-end part of the web application using various web technologies like HTML5, JavaScript, AngularJS, JQuery, AJAX and implemented CSS3 for better appearance and feel.  • Implement modules into Node JS to integrate with designs and requirements.  • Designed a network of web pages, where the user progresses through an application by selecting links, resulting in the next page being transferred to the user and rendered for their use using REST  • Integration Test Coordinator and manager for Enterprise Testing Services (ETS) organization, specializing in E-commerce projects.  • Architecture and development of REST Services powered web-based SaaS application for large-scale video processing using custom DV Labs video compression software able to reduce the size of video by over 50% without a loss in perceived quality (Java, Groovy, Python, AWS SQS, Jenkins, MySQL, NginX, REST Services)  • Managed code versioning with GitHub, Bit Bucket and deployment to staging and production servers.  • Involved in building stable React components and stand-alone functions to be added to any future pages.  • Implemented task object to interface with data feed framework and invoke database message service setup and update functionality.  • Performed security patching, configured Apache and NGINX Vhosts, optimized Varnish on Linux hosts (Ubuntu, CentOS, Amazon Linux) via SSH and sudo.  • Developed remote integration with third party platforms by using RESTful web services.  • Improved code reuse and performance by making effective use of various design patterns and refactoring code base.  • Created proof-of-concept using responsive web design, Node.js, React JS, HTML5 and CSS3.  • Developed single page application by using Angular JS backed by MongoDB and NodeJS.  • Involved in development of a Map based application for integral analysis purpose.  • Experience in debugging and troubleshooting programming related issues.  • Installed and Configured the Apache, Nginx, Tomcat web, application servers for Dev and Integration Test Environments.  • Modified existing SAS programs and created new programs using SAS macro variables to improve ease and speed of modification as well as consistency of results.  • Extracted acting data from the database using SAS/Access, SAS SQL procedures and create SAS data sets.  • Used Selenium Library to write fully functioning test automation process that allowed the simulation of submitting different we request from multiple browser to web application.  • Performed different testing methods like unit testing, Integration testing, web application testing and selenium testing.  • Aggregated the CPU and GPU temperature for the model as the model was using TensorFlow as bank-end.  • Implemented Machine Learning, Computer Vision, Deep Learning and Neural Networks algorithms using TensorFlow and designed Prediction Model using Data Mining Techniques with help of Python, and Libraries like NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib, Pandas, scikit-learn.  • Developed custom screens using HTML5, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap, Jinja and Angular.js.  • Created Data tables utilizing MySQL utilized Jinja to access data and display it in the front end.  • Managed application server load and processing tasks using Celery and Rabbit MQ. Python Developer CGI Group August 2013 to September 2015 • Involved in the Complete Software development life cycle (SDLC) to develop the application.  • Developed standalone application using Python, Unix/Linux scripting.  • Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into Oracle database.  • Developed python applications using Multithreading concepts  • Worked on CSV files while trying to get input from the Oracle database  • Managed large datasets using Oracle and Teradata.  • Wrote python scripts to parse JSON and load the data in database.  • Worked in stages such as analysis and design, development, testing and debugging.  • Organized data exchange and integration with customers and third-party systems using CSV, JSON.  • Worked in Oracle database on simple queries and writing cursors.  • Deployment of the standalone application using the Linux server.  • Managed large datasets using Oracle.  • Used Test driven approach for developing the application and Implemented the unit tests using Python Unit test framework.  • Taken part in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Documented the design solutions and created stories for client requirements.  • Rewrite existing Python module to deliver certain format of data. Skills JSON (5 years), LINUX (5 years), PYTHON (5 years), TESTING (5 years), AJAX (3 years) Additional Information Skills    Operating systems Windows, Linux, MAC, UNIX    Languages Java, C, C++, Python 3.x/2.x, Ruby on Rails    Scripting languages CSS, AJAX, Java Script, JQuery, PHP, Shell Scripting    Analytics Tools SAS, Tableau, Databricks    Markup languages HTML, XML, JSON, Bootstrap    Servers Apache Tomcat    Databases Oracle, My SQL, Postgress, Apache Cassandra, MongoDB.    Virtualization xen, vmware, virtualbox, openstack, vagrand, docker, lxc, lxd,    IDEs/ Tools Eclipse, Toad, Sublime text, PyCharm, Pgadmin, SQLite    Revision Controlling Systems CVS, GitHub    Methodologies & tools Object Oriented Programming, UML, Agile Scrum, Waterfall    MS office tools Microsoft Excel (Super user), Microsoft word, Microsoft PowerPoint, PPTPlex    Microservices Docker, Ansible, Jenkins    Cloud Services AWS, Azure, Kubernetes    Testing Frameworks PyUnit, Splunk, Selenium    Message Queue ActiveMQ, RabbitMQ