Sr. Python Developer Sr.<span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - Techsparq Raleigh, NC • Around 8 years of IT Experience in designing, developing, testing and implementing of various stand-alone and client-server architecture-based enterprise application software in Python on different domains.  • Skilled experience in Python with proven expertise in using new tools and technical developments (libraries used: libraries- Beautiful Soup, Jasy, numpy, Scipy, matplotlib, Pickle, PySide, Python-twitter, Pandas dataframe, networks, urllib2, MySQL dB for database connectivity) to drive .com  • Good experience in developing web applications implementing Model View Control architecture using Django, Flask, Pyramid and Zope Python web application frameworks.  • Experienced in working with various Python Integrated Development Environments like Net Beans, PyCharm, PyScripter, Spyder, PyStudio, PyDev and Sublime Text.  • Basic understanding of protocols/technologies like HTTP, LDAP, JDBC, SSL, Servlet/JSP, SQL, HTML, XML.  • Good knowledge on front end frame works like CSS Bootstrap.  • Experience with Design, code, and debug operations, reporting, data analysis and web applications utilizing Python.  • Worked DevOps methodologies and cloud infrastructure automation tools like AWS, Chef by using Terraform.  • Used Spark API over Cloudera Hadoop YARN to perform analytics on data.  • Exploring with the Spark improving the performance and optimization of the existing algorithms in Hadoop using Spark Context, Spark-SQL, Data Frame, Pair RDD's, Spark YARN.  • Used all major ETL transformations to load the tables through Informatica mappings.  • Good Experience with Django, a high-level Python Web framework.  • Sound experience in Object Oriented Programming using concepts like Multi-Threading, Exception Handling and Collections.  • Knowledge about setting up Python REST API Frame work using Django.  • Extended Testing framework by adding some helper classes and methods  • Good at writing SQL Queries, Stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, triggers using relational databases like Oracle, MySQL, DB2.  • Having good knowledge in using NoSQL databases like Apache Cassandra (1.2, 2.0 and 2.1), Kubernetes and Mongo DB (2.6, 2.4), Orient DBF net.  • Having experienced in Agile Methodologies, PCI, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, Data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Worked on various operating systems like Windows, UNIX and LINUX.  • Experienced in Shell Scripting and UNIX commands. Work Experience Sr. Python Developer Techsparq - Portland, OR October 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed the User Interface for the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS, JavaScript and JSON.  • Successfully migrated the database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data Integrity.  • Developed merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  • Used Django Database APIs to access database objects.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Handled all the client-side validation using JavaScript.  • Expertise in writing Constraints, Indexes, Views, Stored Procedures, Cursors, Triggers and User Defined Function.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Embedded AJAX in UI to update small portions of the web page avoiding the need to reload the entire page.  • Implemented data analysis with various analytical tools such as Python/SQL, Pandas, NumPy, Matplotlib, Statsmodels, Gensim, Jupyter Notebook, and Anaconda.  • Used jQuery for all client-side data manipulation.  • Worked on data queries to obtain lists of references from online databases for analysis.  • Used Perl in web automation and in developing web chat box for the customers.  • Used Test driven approach for developing the application and Implemented the unit tests using Python Unit test framework.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Maintenance and continues development of the applications in PL/SQL procedures, ETL modules and shell scripting using best practices.  • Implemented of Automation framework, database testing using AutoEasy.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • We have implemented pyspark for Transformation and Actions in Spark.  • Implemented various Spark Actions and Transformations by creating RDD's in HDFS.  • Developed Spark scripts by using Scala IDE's as per the business requirement.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Implemented task object to interface with data feed framework and invoke database message service setup and update functionality.  • Cleaned data and processed third party spending data into maneuverable deliverables within specific formats with Excel macros and Python libraries.  • Supporting the data warehousing application to make sure the jobs are run as scheduled and the SLAs are met.  • Maintaining the application for daily operations and scaling according to Business requirements.  • Involved in the Complete Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) to develop the application.  • Followed AGILE development methodology to develop the application.    Environment: Python 2.7, PyQt, PyQuery, Agile, SDLC, MVC, HTML5, CSS3, DOM, Angularjs, Shell Scripting, JSON, Rest, Apache Web Server, Django, SQL, Windows, PostgreSQL, Numpy, SQLAlchemy. Python Developer Dell - Austin, TX September 2016 to October 2018 Responsibilities:  • Developed and designed e-mail marketing campaigns using HTML, JavaScript and CSS  • Good knowledge in various phases of SDLC Requirement Analysis, Design, Development and Testing on various Development and Enhancement Projects.  • Extensive experience in designing and implementing various web applications in both LAMP (Linux, Apache, MY SQL, PHP) Environments.  • Having Good Experience in Object Oriented Concepts (OOPS) with C# and Python.  • Working with backend Python automation, CI pipelines, Docker and cloud provisioning/automation.  • Worked on - Continuous Integration (CI): Gradle, Maven, Ant, Jenkins, Git  • Excellent Experience in Code Refactoring and Udeploy. Solid ability to code in JavaScript.  • Good knowledge on IBM WebSphere Application Deployment and maintenance of an application on Application Server using clusters concept and IBM Tivoli Monitoring.  • Develop, test, deploy and maintain the application.  • Worked with UI team to maintain and monitor the application using JAVA and python.  • Dev.eloped web-based applications using python 2.7/2.6, Django 1.4/1.3, PHP, Flask, Webapp2, Angular.js, VB, C++, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Developed UI screens using Angular JS (Custom Directives, Validation and Promises)  • Developed Angular Controllers, Services, Filters and HTML templates using Angular Directive.  • Rewrite existing Java application in Python module to deliver certain format of data.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse csv files and load the data in database.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using python.  • Developed automated testing framework for command-line based tests on Linux using  • Objected Oriented Perl and for selenium-based tests using python.  • Developed Test Cases using Easy Mock and used POSTMAN to test REST Calls.  • Worked in agile environment and developed CI/CD (Continuous Integration and Continuous Deployment) pipeline through Jira, GitHub, Team City, Pypi, Docker Hub, Supported Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Expert in writing python modules to extract/load asset data from the MySQL source database.  • Wrote and executed various MySQL database queries from python -MySQL connector and MySQL database package.  • Using python/Django, HTML, CSS, Sass, JavaScript, SQL, and PostgreSQL, maintaining and adding software    Environment: Python, Django, Web Framework, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, MongoDB, Linux, Javascript, JQuery, AJAX, JSON, Sublime Text, Jira, Git, Django-cms, SSO, database access, Django-cms plugins, Bootstrap, Agile, Eclipse, Weblogic, GitHub, Junit, Agile, UML, JSP, Xml, SOA. Sr. Python Developer Fairfax, VA August 2014 to September 2016 Responsibilities  • Designed and developed the User Interface for the project using HTML, CSS, JavaScript and AJAX.  • Developed views and templates with Django's MVT (model, view and template) to create a user-friendly website.  • Worked on MVC architecture using PHP, Python as controller.  • Worked on packages like socket, REST API, Django.  • Involved in front end and utilized Bootstrap and Angular.js for page design.  • Created Business Logic using Python to create Planning and Tracking functions.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, to build an interactive web-based solution.  • Designed and created backend data access modules using PL/SQL stored procedures.  • Design and implemented custom Bash scripts for controlling the data flow from the PostgreSQL database.  • Wrote REST APIs, as part of developing web-based applications using Django REST framework.  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA.  • Used Django Database API to access database objects.  • Worked with Level two support team, DBAs and infrastructure team to improve the efficiency and capacity of our system.  • Utilized Punit, the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  • Risk analysis for potential points of failure (database, communication points and file system errors).  • Extensive use of version controlling systems like GIT and SVN.  • Actively worked as a part of team with managers and other staff to meet the goals of the project in the stipulated time.  • Worked on ETL tasks like pulling, pushing data from and too various servers.  • Tested and evaluated results for inclusion into software product.  • Designed and deployed machine learning solutions in Python to classify millions of previously unclassified Twitter users into core data product  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular form for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval to handle time series data and do data manipulation  • Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis using R Studio  • Automating Email Process, Downloading and uploading the files through Perl Scripting.  • Worked on front end frame works like CSS, Bootstrap for development of Web application.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Integrate the dynamic pages with Angular JS and j-query to make the pages dynamic  • Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met  • Used Machine learning techniques like unsupervised Classification, optimization and prediction.  • Worked on Python open stack API's  • Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript, also used Bootstrap as a mechanism to manage and organize the html page layout  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL db package  • Associated with working cloud computing platforms like open stack.    Environment: Python, Django, Flask, PHP, C++, HTML, CSS, jQuery, AJAX, XHTML, AngularJS, JavaScript, XML, GitHub, Flash, MYSQL, PL/SQL. Python Developer Celgene, NY July 2011 to August 2014 Responsibilities:  • Involved in writing System Requirements based on the User requirements and business walk through.  • Involved in developing the design document.  • Involved in End to End implementation of the project.  • Involved in creating the project architecture diagram.  • Involved in preparing engineering specification with OOA and OOD.  • Used Rational Rose Enterprise to develop Use Case diagrams, Class diagrams, Collaboration & Sequence  • Diagrams, State Diagrams, and Data Modeling.  • Developed application logic using Python, Java script, Java.  • Used JMS for updating Mailing plans and tracking them.  • Worked with Google Push Notifications Server and Apple Push Notification Servers.  • Implemented REST API for web client, mobile client , desktop clients.  • Extracted and loaded data using Python scripts and PL/SQL packages.  • Supported Java application for Media portal management.  • Debugging and testing of the applications & fine tuning performance. Provided maintenance support in production environment.  • Skilled in using collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  • Creating the automated build and deployment process for application, re-engineering setup for better user experience, and leading up to building a continuous integration system for all our products.  • Deployment of application on Web logic 8.1 for testing and development team.  • Validate test content in IOS , Android and windows emulators  • Consumed Web Services using SOAP for getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Involved in preparing technical design document.  • Used Connect SOAP rule to fetch the Web Services.  • Used SOAP UI to test the external service.  • Used JIRA for project tacking.  • Involved in testing the application.  • Making changes in accordance with client requirement and client interaction.    Environment:Stack: Python, Open Tok, Custom Scheduler Js JQuery, JavaScript, Html, Css & Bootstrap  Version Control: Git  Database: MySQL.