Full Stack Web Developer Full Stack Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Web Developer - Pay Global Jersey City, NJ ? Around 2 years of experience IT Industry with proficiency in Design & Development of Python, Django, and Flask  ? Experienced with full software development life-cycle, architecting scalable platforms, object-oriented programming, database design, and agile methodologies  ? Proficient understanding of web markup, including HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, and LESS/SASS  ? Proficient understanding of client-side scripting and JavaScript frameworks, such as jQuery and React.js  ? Working knowledge of advanced JavaScript libraries and frameworks, such as NodeJS, and ReactJS  ? Extensive experience in Python web frameworks like Django, and Flask in implementing MVC, Singleton, factory architecture  ? Good experience of software development in Python using libraries such as Numpy, Matplotlib and Pandas data frames  ? Hands-on experience with SQL, PL/SQL, Open Interfaces, and APIs  ? Proficient in using Relational Databases like MySQL, SQL Server, and SQLite.  ? Extensive experience in processing large datasets with millions of records for data transformation including data cleansing, data scrubbing, data profiling and applying business logic rules to incoming data  ? Experienced with Version Control using GIT. Github, Gitlab, Bitbucket  ? Ability to learn and adapt quickly to the emerging new technologies and paradigms  ? Practical experience with working on multiple environments like development, testing, production  ? Highly motivated, dedicated, quick learner and have proven ability to build and manage a team work individually  ? Familiarity with development best practices such as code reviews and unit testing  ? Continuously manages multiple deadlines and competing priorities through proactively planning and managing tasks and resources  ? Able to work in a highly dynamic environment and ready to take up challenges Work Experience Full Stack Web Developer Pay Global - Jersey City, NJ October 2018 to Present Description:  Pay Global is a Full-Service Freight Forwarding Agency. The main object of this project is to build a transaction/checkout platform which provides a better experience for freight forwarding services.  Responsibilities:  ? Managed and supervised client portfolio by trading on equity, options, and futures  ? Worked with the stakeholders to gather requirements.  ? Use a variety of programming languages such as JavaScript, HTML, React, and CSS in order to create user-friendly web layouts and pages  ? Involved in building database Model, APIs, Forms and Routes utilizing Python Django, in order to build an iterative web-based solution.  ? Developed Python-based API (RESTful Web Service) to track the events and perform analysis using Django.  ? Performed debugging and troubleshooting the web applications using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development  ? Participated in the development of application architecture and blueprints to define application components, platforms, interfaces, and development tools.  ? Used Git for version control  ? Monitored and troubleshoot web applications  ? Work in a multidisciplinary team with other professionals such as back-end developers and web designers  ? Provided technical assistance for maintenance, integration, and testing of software solutions during development and release processes. Python Developer Moyi Technology - Jersey City, NJ August 2017 to September 2018 Description:  Moyi is a Tech startup focusing on providing solutions for small to medium business using the latest technologies. The project is to build an online platform for a local health care product business. We used Django to build our Web-services, used MySQL as a database. We build our own internal python libraries also I worked on UI using HTML, CSS, vanilla JavaScript and ReactJs.  Responsibilities:  ? Used Python libraries such as Pandas and Matplotlib to visualize the data  ? Used other packages such as BeautifulSoup for data parsing  ? Designed and developed the UI of the website using Node JS, HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS, and JavaScript.  ? Developed WeChat mini program using Python on Django Web Framework (Django-REST framework, Django-REST swagger, Django environ, etc)  ? Developing back-end components to improve responsiveness and overall performance  ? writing and testing code, debugging programs and integrating applications with third-party web services  ? Performed data migration and developed Python / Django-based web application, SQL DB, and integrations with third-party email messaging, storage services.  ? Designed and developed a horizontally scalable APIs using Python Django.  ? Used Django Rest API's to access database objects.  ? Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  ? Participated in requirement gathering and worked closely with the architect in designing and modeling.  ? Improve functionality of existing systems  ? Worked with the team to customize WordPress security installations.  ? Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures on MYSQL.  ? Designed and developed a horizontally scalable APIs using Python Django. Education Bachelor in Applied Mathematics University of Arizona Skills Bootstrap (1 year), CSS (2 years), database (1 year), Django (2 years), Eclipse (Less than 1 year), Excel (Less than 1 year), Git (1 year), HTML5 (3 years), Java (Less than 1 year), JavaScript (2 years), jQuery (1 year), MS SQL Server (Less than 1 year), MySQL (2 years), Python (2 years), SQL (2 years), SQL Server (Less than 1 year), Unix (Less than 1 year), React Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Languages Python 3.7, Java,  Database MySQL, MS SQL Server, PLSQL, SQLite  Web Technologies HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, ES6, JQuery, ReactJs, Bootstrap  Framework Django, Flask, Matplotlib, Pandas, Numpy, ReactJs  Platforms Mac OS, Window, Unix/Linux  Other Tools VS Code, Git, Eclipse, Excel, Workbench