Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Eli Lillyand Company Indianapolis, IN • Around 6+ years of vibrant experience in developing as a Web/Application Developer, server-side programming and coding with analytical programming using Python, Django, C++.  • Developing MVC web-based applications using Python web frameworks like Django, Pyramid, Flask and Web2Py, Singleton.s  • Expertise on Data bases such as MYSQL, Oracle, PL/SQL, PostgreSQL and NOSQL databases like MongoDB, Cassandra.  • Expertise in establishing database connections for Python by configuring packages like MySQL - Python and running various queries.  • Experience in python libraries like Pandas, Matplotlib, Numpy, to manipulate and visualize the data using interactive charts.  • Experiencing developing forms using HTML and performing client-side validations using JavaScript, JQuery and Bootstrap.  • Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, Python /PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, Python /PHP) Architecture.  • Experienced in Python's modules like numpy, regular expressions, collections, dates & times and OS modules.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Developed Restful API's integrating web exe with Django and Python implementations with data exchange through JSON and XML formats.  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  • Hands-on experience in writing and reviewing product specifications, technical specifications, test plans,and quality analysis.  • Designed Puppet Modules to manage configurations and automate installation process and developed automation scripting in Python using Puppet to deploy and manage Java applications across Linux servers.  • Created Python scripts to automate AWS services which include web servers, ELB, Cloud Front distribution, databases, security groups,and application configuration  • Good Experience in Linux Shell Scripting (Bash) and following PEP Guidelines in Python.  • Experience in handling database issues and connections with SQL and NoSQL databases like MongoDB (2.6, 2.4) by installing and configuring various packages in python (Teradata, MySQL dB, MySQL connector, Pymongo,and SQL Alchemy).  • Proficient in writing SQL Queries, Stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, triggers using relational databases like DB2 and MySQL.  • Configured AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) Groups and Users for improved login authentication.  • Good idea using debugging tools like Bugzilla, and JIRA.  • Proficient in designing Model, View, Database Architecture for a given requirement or problem statement irrespective of the underlying technology.  • Excellent analytical and problem-solving skills with efficient time management and result oriented attitude.  • Good interpersonal, very hands-on attitude and approach, Inquisitive, Self-determined to learn and improve. Work Experience Python Developer Eli Lillyand Company - Indianapolis, IN April 2018 to Present Description:Eli Lilly and Company is an American pharmaceutical company headquartered in Indianapolis, Indiana, with offices in 18 countries. Its products are sold in approximately 125 countries.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in all the stages of software development life cycle like design, development, implementation,and testing.  • Used Django/flask Framework in developing web applications to implement the model view controller architecture.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Used MySQL as thebackend database and MySQL dB of python as a database connector to interact with MySQL server.  • Involved in the development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Developed Views and Templates with Python and using Django's view controller and template language for the Web application.  • Designed and Developed User Interface using front-end technologies like HTML, CSS, JavaScript,jQuery, AngularJS, Bootstrap and JSON.  • Worked in Apache CGI, Cherrypie, python and Bash programming on Red Hat virtual machines to maintain and automate Splunk server deployments and other in-house IT operations.  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange,and business logic implementation.  • Involved in design, implementation and modifying the Python code and MySQL database schema on-the-back end.  • Had regular interactions with customers and gathered requirements in Big Data collation, summation, filtering and normalizing the data.  • Exposure to Multi-Threading factory to distribute learning process back-testing and into various worker processes.  • Created and populated digital brochures using PageTurnPro and built photo galleries on the website in the Django CMS and using DjangoCMS plugin.  • Carried out various mathematical operations for calculation purpose using python libraries.  • Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators,and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  Environment: Python 3.6, Django 1.10,1.11, MySQL, Shell Scripting, REST, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, Java, JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, AJAX, Matplotlib, PyTest, Sublime, JIRA, SVN. Python Developer Cisco - Sanjose, CA, US June 2017 to March 2018 Description:Cisco Systems, Inc. is an American multinational technology conglomerate headquartered in San Jose, California, in the center of Silicon Valley.  Responsibilities:  • Created Python and Bash tools to increase the efficiency of the retail management application system and operations; data conversion scripts, AMQP/RabbitMQ, REST, JSON, and CRUD scripts for API Integration.  • Developed Python-based API (RESTful Web Service) to track the events and perform analysis using Django.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Worked on several python libraries like Python, NumPy,andmatplotlib and used XML Web Services using SOAP to transfer information to the Credit Monitoring Systems.  • Involved in Using Python, Flask,andAngularJS for the design, development,and deployment of the application.  • Build backend security services for Cisco platforms such as web & email security appliances and cloud services, firewall, and next-generation backend intelligence systems.  • Designed and developed new features for an application using HTML, JSTL, JavaScript,andXSL  • Developed Java utility classes for common application functionality like database access, error logging,and configuration file  • Actively involved in developing the methods for Create, Read, Update and Delete (CRUD) in Active Record.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL with complete data integrity.  • Responsible for transforming design mock-ups to W3C standards compliant HTML pages using HTML, XHTML, CSS.  • Worked on Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Created a Python/Django based web application using Python scripting for data processing, MySQL for the database, and HTML/CSS/JQuery and High Charts for data visualization of the served pages.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.    Environment: Python 3.6, MySQL, Shell Scripting, REST, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, AJAX, Matplotlib, PyTest. Developer Alliant Credit Union - Chicago, IL October 2016 to May 2017 Description:Alliant Credit Union is a member-owned financial cooperative headquartered in Chicago, Illinois. Alliant provides exclusive benefits to employees, retirees, and members of qualifying organizations and their family members; any member of the Foster Care to Success; and individuals who live or work in a qualifying community and their family members.  Responsibilities:  • Designed and Developed UI for creating Dashboard application using AngularJS, D3, C3, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Developed and implemented Python scripts to automate retrieval, parsing and reporting of configuration parameters from Network Devices connected to customer networks.  • Involved in user interface design and development using JSP, Servlet, HTML5, CSS3,andJavaScript.  • Wrote and tested Python scripts to create new data files for Linux server configuration using a Python template tool.  • Modified controlling databases using SQL generated via Python and Perl code, collected and analyzed data with Python programs using SQL queries from the database of data collected from the systems under tests.  • Involved in write application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and hence building a type-ahead feature for zip code, city,and county lookup using jQuery, Ajax,and jQuery UI.  • Collaborate with Product Management and User Experience experts regarding product definition, schedule, scope,and project-related decisions.  • Worked on updating the existing clipboard to have the new features as per the client requirements.  • Skilled in using collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user-defined objects.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Involved in the Web/Application development using Python, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JSON,andjQuery.  • Cleaned data and processed third-party spending data into Maneuverable deliverables within specific format with Excel macros and python libraries such as NumPy, SQL Alchemy,and Matplotlib.  • Prototype proposal for Issue Tracker website using Python/Django connecting MySQL as Database.    Environment: Python, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JSON, jQuery, MySQL, NumPy, SQL Alchemy, Matplotlib, Hadoop, Pig Scripts.    Project 4 PythonDeveloper Harris Corporation October 2015 to September 2016 FL, US. Oct 15 - Sep 2016    Description: Harris Corporation is an American technology company, defense contractor and information technology services provider that produces wireless equipment, tactical radios, electronic systems, night vision equipment.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in the software development lifecycle (SDLC) of tracking the requirements, gathering, analysis, detailed design, development, system testing and user acceptance testing.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Involved in designing user interactive web pages as the front-end part of the web application using various web technologies like HTML, JavaScript, Angular JS, jQuery, AJAX and implemented CSS for better appearance and feel.  • Actively involved in developing the methods for Create, Read, Update and Delete (CRUD) in Active Record.  • Implemented and modified various SQL queries and Functions, Cursors and Triggers as per the client requirements.  • Managed code versioning with GitHub, BitBucket,and deployment to staging and production servers.  • Implemented MVC architecture in developing the web application with the help of the Django framework.  • Used Celery as task queue and Rabbit MQ, Redis as messaging broker to execute asynchronous tasks.  • Designed and managed API system deployment using a fastHTTP server and Amazon AWS architecture.  • Involved in code reviews using GitHub pull requests, reducing bugs, improving code quality, and increasing knowledge sharing  Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.4, HTML5, CSS, XML, MySQL, JavaScript, Backbone JS, JQuery, Mongo DB, MS SQL Server, JavaScript, Git, GitHub, AWS, Linux, Shell Scripting, AJAX, JAVA. Java Developer Cosset Technologies Pvt Ltd - Bengaluru, Karnataka February 2013 to March 2015 Description: Cosset Technologies is the supplier of leader items and answers for its US-based gathering organizations Triago LLC and Stone breeze Systems Inc. Why do we call our items issue solvers? Since we realize that they have been produced in the fire of rising industry requests and needs.  Responsibilities:  • Effectively using SPRING framework on developing a controller, model, and Adapter layers.  • Worked on writing SQL queries for Oracle.  • Involved in designing and generating web services using SOAP, WSDL,and UDDI.  • Developed interactive web application using ExtJS  • Developed a web-based reporting system with JSP.  • Developed UI using HTML 5, Bootstrap, jQuery and JSP for interactive cross-browser functionality and complex user interface.  • Responsible to verify that the Software Configuration Management plan is followed in the project for the STG Billing application.    Environment:SQL, SOAP, WSDL, ExtJS, JSP, JMS, HTML 5, Bootstrap, jQuery Education Bachelor's Skills Application server, Design patterns, Python, Matplotlib, Numpy, Pandas, Svn, Visio, Eclipse, J2ee, Jboss, Database, Mysql, Tomcat, Web logic, Web services, Websphere, Soap, Apache, Ooad Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Python Libraries Beautiful Soup, NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas data frame, urllib2  Database Oracle11g, MySQL 5.x,and SQLServer  IDE Tools Eclipse, Web Logic, Rational Rose, LDAP, Methodology, Clear Case/Clear Quest  Web Services SOAP, REST, WSDL  Methodologies OOPS/OOAD, UML, J2EE Design Patterns  Version Control SVN, Clear case, CVS  Tools RAD, Eclipse, Edit Plus, Apache Ant, log4j, JUnit, Visio, ANT, Maven  Web/App. Servers WebSphere Application Server 8.0, Apache Tomcat, Web Logic 11g/ 12c, JBoss 4.x/5.x