Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - American Airlines • Experience of 5+ Python programming, web and desktop GUI based application development, website and console application development, database designing and development, SDLC, object-oriented designs and analysis, requirement analysis, software testing and debugging, system or program troubleshooting, networking, code review and optimization, software enhancements, data security and protection techniques, object relational mapping, SQL and relational databases, continuous integration and deployment methods, project management  • Experienced in Python, HTML5, CSS3, XML, JSON, jQuery, Bootstrap, MS SQL Server, Postgres, Oracle, custom and ODBC interfaces, object database and standard database API, Python Rest APIs, AWS, SQL, Django, and Flask frameworks, SOAP UI, Windows and Linux OS  • Proficient in analysis of user requirements or technical specifications as well as write and execute reliable, testable and efficient code for Python based applications  • Experienced in implementing Object Oriented Python, Hash Tables (Dictionaries) and Multithreading, Django, MYSQL, Exception Handling and Collections using Python.  • Experienced in Professional Web Apps development using Django and Flask inclusive of experience in UI using AngularJS  • Utilized software development in Python (libraries used: libraries -numpy, scipy, matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas data frame, networkx, urllib2, MySQL dB for database connectivity) and IDEs - sublime text, Spyder, emacs.  • Experienced in working with various Relational Database Management Systems (RDBMS) like MySQL, Microsoft SQL Server, Oracle & non- relational databases (NoSQL) like MongoDB and Cassandra.  • Proficient in developing Web Services with Python programming language - implementing JSON based RESTful and XML based SOAP webservices.  • Experienced in using Design Patterns such as MVC, Singleton and frameworks such as DJANGO, Ability in handling Django ORM (Object-Relational Mapper) and SQL Alchemy.  • Experienced in using Version Control Systems like GIT, SVN and CVS to keep the versions and configurations of the code organized.  • Utilized CI/CD tools like Jenkins for Continuous Integration, Ansible for continuous deployment.  • Experienced in multi-tier application provisioning in Openstack cloud and integrating it with Chef/Puppet  • Utilized Hudson/Jenkins, Build Forge for continuous integration and for End to End automation for all build and deployments.  • Experienced with containerizing applications using Docker and Exp in maintaining and executing build scripts to automate development and production builds.  • Experienced in Amazon Web Services (AWS) cloud platform like EC2, Virtual private clouds (VPCs), Storage models (EBS, S3, instance storage), Elastic Load Balancers (ELBs)  • Experienced in developing ColdFusion Components, custom tags and modified CF Objects.  • Experienced with Unit testing/ Test driven Development (TDD), Load Testing.  • Experienced in building tools such as ANT, Apache MAVEN, and JENKINS.  • Experienced in deploying applications in heterogeneous Application Servers TOMCAT, Web Logic and Oracle Application Server. Work Experience Python Developer American Airlines - Fort Worth, TX July 2018 to Present Fort Worth  • Associated with various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the application like requirement gathering, Design, Analysis and Code development.  • Worked with designers, analysts, developers or software engineers to write and execute reliable and efficient Python programs and related SQL queries for desktop GUI, enterprise, web, scientific and numerical applications as per user or business requirements as well as established coding standards  • Analyzed and translated client requirements into technical or design specifications as well as creating developers' guides for high-quality and efficient software project development as required  • Created a Python/Django based web application using Python scripting for data processing, MySQL for the database, and HTML/CSS/jQuery and High Charts for data visualization of the served pages.  • Developed Restful microservices using Flask and Django and deployed on AWS servers using EBS and EC2.  • Designed and developed scalable AWS APIs using Flask web framework in Python and Integrated with AWS API Management, Logical Apps and other AWS services.  • Implemented REST API's in Python using micro-framework like Flask with SQL Alchemy in the backend for management of data center resources on which OpenStack would be deployed. Designed and developed a horizontally scalable APIs using python Flask.  • Developed project's web page as Single Page Application (SPA) by using AngularJS and JavaScript API and build delivery driver application.  • Conducted data analysis using Python libraries such as Pandas, Numpy and Matplotlib.  • Tested and developed features for dashboard using CSS, AngularJS and Bootstrap.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Developed web applications and RESTful web services and APIs using Python, Django and PHP.  • Extensively used Selenium Library to write fully functioning test automation process that allowed the simulation of submitting different requests from multiple browsers to web applications.  • Developed rich UI web application using JavaScript libraries like jQueryUI, data grid, jscolor, and high charts.  • Worked on designing, coding and developing the application in Python using Django MVC.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to created user-friendly website interface.  • Designed and developed components using Python with Django framework. Implemented code in python to retrieve and manipulate data.  • Python & Django creating graphics, XML processing of documents, data exchange & business logic implementation between servers.  • Used Python programming and Django for the backend development, and Angular for frontend connectivity and MongoDB for database.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for local timestamp data manipulation and retrieval and storing it into MongoDB.  • Implemented and used custom-built query script to store, index and read large sets of Object data (like Mongo DB)  • Worked in RDBMS implementation using, SQL, PL/SQL, DB2, MySQL on Oracle database.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Worked on the MySQL migration project to make the system completely independent of the database being used.  • Managed datasets using data frames and MySQL, queried MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector MySQL dB package to retrieve information.  • Wrote documentation for system administration and cloud administration audiences as well as REST API consumers at docs.openstack.org.  • Generated graphical reports using python package NumPy and Matplotlib. Worked on Python OpenStack APIs and used Numpy for Numerical analysis.  • Automated the existing scripts for performance calculations using NumPy and sql alchemy.  • Developed PHP and Perl application to enhance and automate the data collection-to-extraction process. Migrated PHP and PERL applications from UBUNTU Unix to Red Hat Linux environment.  • Recorded Scripts (Web, Web Services HTML) using Vugen and SoapUI and script validation through co correlations, parameterizations and other methods.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Designed and implemented custom Bash scripts for controlling the data flow from the PostgreSQL database.  • Organized data exchange and integration with customers and third-party systems using CSV, XLS, XML, DBF and REST.  • Used XML Webservices using SOAP to transfer the amount to transfer application that is remote and global to different financial institutions.  • Designed and Developed REST Webservices to interact with various business sectors and used SOAP protocol for webservices communication  • Wrote Python modules to view and connect the Apache Cassandra instance.  • Configure backup, alerts, repairs and monitoring of Cassandra clusters, in conjunction with Nagios/Opscenter and custom scripts.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Automated different workflows, which are initiated manually with Python scripts and UNIX shell scripting. Python Developer Infosys October 2015 to December 2017 India  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in Python.  • Responsible to create organized responsive design and developed user interaction screens using React, Django, HTML5, CSS/CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, jQuery.  • Developed Python and Django for the backend development and front-end application using React, Webpack, Redux and MySQL for database.  • Responsible for setting up Python REST API framework using Django.  • Used React JS in components like JSX, creating React components, Virtual DOM, React Props, Lifecycle methods, working with React States and Events.  • Worked on Model View Component (MVC) architecture implemented for development of the project and used Django Rest Framework to develop REST API.  • Used different python libraries like SciPy, NumPy, and Pandas to create models for predictive analysis.  • Used the Django framework developed models, customized admin page, views, templates and effective ORM implementation with My SQL.  • Wrote Python modules to extract/load asset data from the MySQL source database.  • Used PyUnit, the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications.  • Worked with Unit testing/ Test driven Development (TDD), Load Testing and responsible for consuming web services (REST) with python programming language.  • Worked on JSON and XML data of web application assets and its attributes.  • Used Ansible to configure and manage the infrastructure and worked on Jenkins cloud Bees for CI/CD in production environment. Worked on Docker containers and Automation (Ansible) and Deploying on AWS environment (EC2)  • Created Amazon EC2 Cloud Instances using Amazon Web Services and configuration of launched instances with respect to specific applications. Jr. Python Developer CGI Group August 2013 to September 2015 India  • Ensured high-quality data collection and maintaining the integrity of the data. Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS, and JavaScript. Designed and developed the data management system using MySQL.  • Designed and developed scalable Azure APIs using Flask web framework in Python and Integrated with Azure API Management, Logical Apps and other Azure services.  • Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  • Involved in hospital projects such as gunshot events and patient readmission. Primarily using R packages for data manipulation, modeling ( machine learning) and reporting.  • Handled all the client-side validation using JavaScript and jQuery. Used Django Database API's to access database objects  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Collaborated with SaaS teams on AWS cost optimization projects  • Docker and Kubernetes were used as the best ecosystem to deploy and manage Micro-service.  • Conducted data analysis using Python libraries such as Pandas, Numpy and Matplotlib.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/creating new code.  • Build all Database Mapping classes using Django Generic, Class and functioned based methods.  • Graphical data representation using python modules like NumPy, SciPy, Pandas, Pygal and installed using pip command toolkit.  • Data Exchanges and sorting as per customer requirement between Database and Files.  • Enhanced existing automated solutions, such as the Inquiry Tool for automated Asset. Education Master of Science in Information System The University of Texas - Arlington, TX 2019 Skills AWS (5 years), CSS (5 years), DJANGO (5 years), jQuery (5 years), MYSQL (5 years) Additional Information COMPUTER SKILLS    Programming Languages: Python 2.X, Python 3.X, C, C++, SQL  Web technologies: HTML, CSS, XHTML, Java Script, jQuery, AJAX, XML, JSON  Webserver: WebSphere, Web logic, Apache Tomcat, NGINX  Databases: MySQL, PLSQL, Oracle, Microsoft SQL, PostgreSQL, MongoDB  Python Web frameworks: Django, Pyramid, Flask, web2Py.  Development IDE: PyCharm, Pydev Eclipse, Net beans, MS Visio, Sublime Text, Notepad++  Operating Systems: Linux, Windows 10/8/7/Vista/XP, Mac  Web Services: SOAP, RESTful, AWS  Version Control: Git-Hub, Sub Version  Build Tools: GNU, Apache Ant, Apache Maven, Buck, Bit-Bake, Boot, Grunt  Methodologies: Agile, Scrum, Waterfall