Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Alpine Bank Chicago, IL ? Results oriented Software Engineer with 8 years experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Testing, and Implementation of various internet-based applications. Proficient in a variety of platforms, languages like Python using various frameworks like Django, Flask.  ? Experienced in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) methodologies such as Agile and Waterfall methodologies with high quality deliverables delivered on-time.  ? Solid experience in Analysis, Design and Development, Testing, Implementation, production support and maintenance of various Web Applications using Python, Django, C/C++, MySQL.  ? Experienced in developing Web-based Applications using Python, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, Angular JS and JQuery.  ? Strong Working experience on several standard Python packages like NumPy, SciPy, pytables, matplotlib, Pickle, Beautiful Soup, Python-twitter, urllib2 etc.  ? Experience with Design, code, debug operations, reporting, data analysis and web applications utilizing Python.  ? Expert in using Django Authentication system, Django templating system, creating models and forms.  ? Experience with different IDE's like Sublime Text, PyCharm.  ? Proficient in developing web-based applications using PHP, MYSQL, Flask, Jinja, HTML, XML, JSON, CSS, Java Script & AJAX.  ? Expertise in working with different data bases like Microsoft SQL Server, Oracle MySQL, PostgreSQL and Good knowledge in using NoSQL databases MongoDB.  ? Proficient in developing complex SQL queries, Stored Procedures, Functions, Packages along with performing DDL and DML operations on the database.  ? Experience in working with Python ORM Libraries including Django ORM.  ? Good Command of web services with protocols SOAP, REST.  ? Experience in working on source code management tools like SVN, GIT (GitHub), Creating GIT repositories with specified branching strategies.  ? Extensively worked with automation tools like Jenkins, to implement the End-to-End Automation.  ? Ability to learn and adapt quickly to the emerging new technologies and paradigms.  ? Efficient team member with excellent work/time management skills, communications and Interpersonal Skills, ability to work under strict deadlines.  ? Have flexibility and ability to learn and use new technologies and also to work in team environment as wells as independently to get things done. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Alpine Bank - Glenwood Springs, CO July 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Involved in SDLC Agile Methodology (Scrum).  ? Used Python, Django and Pyramid frameworks to develop applications and responsible for both back-end programming and front-end functionality using JavaScript, Ajax, Angular.JS, and other technologies.  ? Used AJAX for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers and wrote Python scripts to parse XML and JSON documents and load the data in database.  ? Implemented RESTful Web-Services for sending and receiving the data between multiple systems.  ? Developed dynamic web pages to view the reports generated using Django Framework.  ? Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  ? Designed and developed data management system using MongoDB and MySQL.  ? Developed build and deployment scripts using Maven as build tools in Jenkins to move from one environment to other environments.  ? Implemented SqlAlchamy (ORM) which is a python library for complete access over SQL as python objects.  ? Implemented AJAX for dynamic functionality of a webpages for front end applications.  ? Created GIT configuration record for builds using derived objects generated during build audit process.  ? Used JIRA as Issue Tracking Tool & Setup Docker on Linux and configured Jenkins to run under Docker host.  ? Worked on front end frame works like Bootstrap for responsive webpages and AngularJS for Single page application.  ? Involved in writing SQL Queries, Stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, triggers.  ? Worked with defect tracking tool like Jira.  ? Used Git version control system for maintain version of code & Used agile methodology.  Environment: Python, Django, Jenkins, MySQL, MongoDB, REST, AJAX, HTML, SQLAlchemy, Shell scripting, Sublime, XHTML, Git. Python Developer Alden State Bank - New York, NY June 2016 to July 2018 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in development of entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  ? Involved Developed dynamic web pages using python Django Frameworks and used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation Installation and setting up Python/Unix test beds and supported Apache Server on Linux Platform.  ? Used the continuous integration (CID) tool Jenkins for automating the build processes.  ? Implemented a continuous Delivery pipeline with Jenkins and GitHub, whenever a new GitHub branches are created Jenkins automatically attempts to build a new Docker container from it.  ? Modified queries, functions, cursors, triggers and stored procedures for MySQL database to improve performance, while processing data.  ? Created Database tables, functions, stored procedures and wrote prepared statements using PL/SQL.  ? Automated the existing scripts for performance calculations using NumPy and Sqlalchemy.  ? Used REST and SOAPUI for testing web service for server-side changes.  ? Embedded AJAX in UI to update small portions of the web page avoiding the need to reload the entire page.  ? Wrote scripts in Python for extracting data from HTML file.  ? Involved in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support. Maintaining the scripts using the version Control.  ? Involved in development of Python APIs to dump the array structures in the Processor at the failure point for debugging.  ? Worked on different cross browsing capability issue for IE, Chrome, Firefox and Safari.  ? Utilized PyQt to provide GUI for the user to create, modify and view reports based on client data.  ? Developed complex web, middleware, and back end systems in Python, SQL and Perl for Linux and Windows.  ? Created PyUnit test scripts and used for unit testing & Used Git for the version control.  ? Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  ? Developed user interfaces using HTML5 and JavaScript.  ? Created a Git repository and added the project to GitHub.  ? Utilized Agile process and JIRA issue management to track sprint cycles.    Environment: Python, DJango, Git, Jenkins, HTML, CSS, NumPy, SQLAlchemy, Rest, Soap, MySQL, SQL, PyQt, PyUnit Python Developer Thrive Market - Los Angeles, CA May 2014 to June 2016 Responsibilities:  ? Developed web applications in Django Framework's model view control (MVC) architecture.  ? Expertise in Python and Django Framework to develop application.  ? Made use of advanced python packages like NumPy, Scipy for various sophisticated numerical and scientific calculations.  ? Utilized Python specific tools including Django, Django Rest Framework, Django ORM, Flask, SQLAlchemy, Pandas, Numpy.  ? Designed and Developed REST Webservices to interact with various business sectors and used SOAP protocol for webservices communication.  ? Knowledge of agile development (SCRUM) and continuing integration.  ? Used Pandas datamining library for statistics Analysis & NumPy for Numerical analysis.  ? Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web-based solution.  ? Built various graphs using Matplotlib package which helped in taking business decisions  ? Created Restful API's to integrate and enhance functionalities of the application. Also Utilized Restful API in communicating with third parties.  ? Worked on automation using the Python scripting language, Git.  ? Involved and played a leading role in database migration projects from Oracle to MongoDB.  ? Worked with continuous integration and automation using JENKINS & Used JIRA for tracking and Updating Project issue.  ? Designed and developed Use-Case, Class and Object Diagrams using UML Rational Rose for Object Oriented Analysis/Object Oriented Design techniques.  ? Generated Python Django forms to record data of online users and used PyTest for writing test cases.  ? Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using JSON and involved in AJAX driven application by invoking web services/API and parsing the JSON response.  ? Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Jenkins, MongoDB and custom tools developed in Python.    Environment: Python, Django, Oracle, Linux, REST, PyChecker, SQLAlchemy, PyCharm, Sublime, HTML, Java script, jQuery, JSON, Shell scripting, GIT. Python Developer Hughes Network Systems - Germantown, MD April 2011 to May 2014 Responsibilities:  ? Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  ? Designed object model, data model, tables, constraints, necessary stored procedures, functions, triggers, and packages for Oracle Database.  ? Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  ? Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  ? Developed Business Logic using Python on Django Web Framework.  ? Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  ? Write scripts using python modules and its libraries to develop programs that improve processing of access requests.  ? Utilized PyUnit, the Python Unit test framework, for all Python applications and used Django Database API's to access database objects.  ? Used PyQuery for selecting particular DOM elements when parsing HTML.  ? Designed and created backend data access modules using PL/SQL stored procedures and Oracle.  ? Worked in an agile development environment.    Environment: Python, Django, HTML5, CSS, XML, AJAX, MySQL, JavaScript, JQuery, Pyquery, PostgreSQL, T-SQL, JavaScript, Eclipse, Git, Linux, Shell Scripting. Education Bachelor's Skills Ajax (8 years), Django (8 years), Git (8 years), Linux (8 years), Python (8 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:  Programming Languages Python, JavaScript  Python Packages NumPy, SciPy, pytables, matplotlib, Pickle, Beautiful Soup, Python-twitter, urllib2  Frameworks Django, Pyramid, Flask, AngularJS  Web Technologies HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, XML, JSON, AJAX  Web Services REST, SOAP, WSDL.  Databases MYSQL, MongoDB, Oracle  Software/IDE Sublime Text, PyCharm, Eclipse, Notepad++  Operating System Mac OS, Windows, Linux.  Software Management GIT, SVN, Maven, Gradle, CVS.