Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - Fast Switch, Ltd North Hollywood, CA • 8 years of Professional IT experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Testing of Enterprise Applications and Database Development.  • Extensive knowledge in Python, Java, MySQL, Oracle, Unix and Linux.  • Hands on experience in data processing automation using python.  • Hands on experience in SQL and PL/SQL and writing stored procedures.  • Good Knowledge Objected Oriented Concepts, Data Structures and Design patterns.  • Web development using Python, Django.  • Building out the next-generation public-facing web site with an advanced Django-based web frameworks.  • Developed/supported application on LAMP stack (PHP, MYSQL and Apache).  • Good experience with Amazon Cloud EC2, Simple Storage Service S3 and Amazon SQS.  • Strong knowledge in SQL concepts - CRUD operations and aggregation framework.  • Experience in the design of Mongo DB database - Indexing and Sharding  • Good Knowledge on hibernate, springs, struts and web services.  • Have good experience in MATLAB coding.  • Proficient in developing websites and web applications using PHP, MYSQL, HTML 4.01/5, XML, JSON, CSS, Java Script & AJAX.  • Good Knowledge of Waterfall and Agile methodologies and experienced on this.  • Good Exposure in maintaining various version controls like GIT and SVN.  • Experience in Agile development techniques and Test Driven Developments.  • Keen on learning and adaptable to any platform.  • Excellent experience in designing and maintaining complex SQL queries and developing PL/SQL stored procedures.  • Highly proficient in design/development of standalone and web applications using JavaScript, XML, DHTML, Ajax, Tomcat and Apache Application server over various platforms (UNIX, Linux, and Windows).  • Active Participation in full development life cycle (requirements, design, architecture, development, testing).  • Good experience in building and testing Google app search engine using python.  • Experienced in developing UNIX shell scripts and bash scripting.  • Participated in all phases of the System Development Life Cycle Analysis (SDLC).  • Practical experience with working on multiple environments like development, testing, production.  • Experience in Implementation of MVC/ MVW architecture using Django, and RESTful, Soap web service and SoapUI  • Hands-on experience in writing and reviewing requirements, architecture documents, test plans, design documents, quality analysis and audits.  • Excellent analytical and problem solving skills and ability to work on own besides being a valuable and contributing team player. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Python Developer Fast Switch, Ltd - Dublin, OH April 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Participate in requirement gathering and analysis phase of the project in documenting the business requirements by conducting workshops/meetings with various business users.  • Worked with team of developers on Python applications for RISK management.  • Developed Python/Django application for Google Analytics aggregation and reporting.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Worked on Python Open stack API's.  • Used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Worked very closely with designer, tightly integrating Flash into the CMS with the use of Flashvars stored in the Django models. Also, created XML with Django to be used by the Flash.  • Used HTML, CSS, JQuery, JSON and Javascript for front end applications.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Also used Bootstrap as a mechanism to manage and organize the html page layout.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQLdb package.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures on MYSQL.  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile).  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.    Environment: Python, Amazon AWS S3, MySQL, HTML, Python 2.7, Django 1.4, HTML5, CSS, XML, MySQL, MS SQL Server, JavaScript, AWS, Linux, Shell Scripting, AJAX, Cassandra. Python Developer PredicaInc - Farmington Hills, MI October 2015 to April 2018 Responsibilities:  • Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users.  • Created PHP/MySQL back-end for data entry from Flash. I had to assist the Flash developer send the correct data via query strings.  • Developed monitoring and notification tools using Python.  • Created Data tables utilizing PyQt to display patient and policy information and add, delete, update patient records.  • Wrote Python routines to log into the websites and fetch data for selected options.  • Designed Cassandra schema for the APIs.  • Handled all the client side validation using Javascript.  • Good experience with Oops concepts.  • Designed and created backend data access modules using PL/SQL stored procedures and Oracle.  • Good experience in writing SQL Queries and implementing stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, Cursors, triggers.  • Experience in using collections in Oracle for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  • Developed Python/Django application for Google Analytics aggregation and reporting.  • Developed and executed User Acceptance Testing portion of test plan.  • Generated Python Django forms to record data of online users and used PyTest for writing test cases.  • Involved in capturing the requirements for serial functional interface and other software requirements specification document.    Environment: Python, MySQL, Django, Cassandra, Flask, PHP, XML, Linux, HTML, Java script, Windows. Python Developer Systems Technology - Dearborn, MI August 2013 to October 2015 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Participated in the complete SDLC process.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Created a Python based GUI application For Freight Tracking and processing.  • Used Django framework for application development.  • Developing applications using RESTFUL architecture using Node.js and PHP as backend languages.  • Implemented the validation, error handling, and caching framework with Oracle Coherence cache.  • Good experience with Test Driven Development.  • Created database using MySQL, wrote several queries to extract data from database.  • Setup automated con jobs to upload data into database, generate graphs, bar charts, upload these charts to wiki, and backup the database.  • Wrote scripts in Python/Oracle for extracting data from HTML file.  • Effectively communicated with the external vendors to resolve queries.  • Used Perforce for the version control.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.4, HTML5, CSS, XML, MySQL, JavaScript, Backbone JS, JQuery, Mongo DB, MS SQL Server, JavaScript, Git, GitHub, AWS, Linux, Shell Scripting, AJAX, JAVA. Python Developer Exotic Automation & S - Farmington Hills, MI June 2011 to August 2013 Responsibilities:  • Used SDLC process and used PHP to develop website functionality.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, NodeJS, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework on MySQL  • Used Django APIs for database access  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL. Built application logic using Python 2.7.  • Used Django APIs for database access.  • Used Python to extract weekly hotel availability information from XML files using underscore JS.  • Parsed XML file using Python to extract data from database  • Participated in requirement gathering and worked closely with the architect in designing and modelling.  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures, trigger and function on MYSQL.  • Developed shopping cart for Library and integrated web services to access the payment (E-commerce).  • Designed and developed a horizontally scalable APIs using Python Flask.  • Designed Cassandra schema for the APIs  • Java implementation on given project  • Developed shopping cart for Library and integrated web services to access the payment.  • Used Php language on lamp server to develop page.  • Developed dynamic interaction page on .net MS visual basic-2014, using SQL developer tools.    Environment: Python 2.6/2.7, JavaScript, Django Framework 1.3, SQL, MySQL, LAMP, JQuery, Adobe Dreamweaver, Apache web server, PHP, Lamp, underscore JS. SQL developer tool. Education Bachelor of Engineer in Engineer Stanford University Skills Django, Git, Html, Wcf, Python