Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Advance Auto Parts Raleigh, NC • 5 Years of experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Management and Implementation of various stand-alone, client-server enterprise applications using Python, Django, Shell Script and AWS.  • Building Data Pipelines using Shell Script, AWS Lambda, Mongo DB and Python.  • Vigorous knowledge in progressing web applications and effectuating Model View Control architecture using Django web application framework.  • Developed business CRUD operations using RESTFUL services.  • Experience in Development and testing ETL data processes  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML data and load the data in database.  • Experience in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, JSON, CSS, HTML5, Java Script.  • Experienced with full software development life cycle (SDLC), architecting scalable platforms, object-oriented programming, database design and agile methodologies.  • Experience with object-oriented programming (OOPS) concepts using Python.  • Worked on various applications using python integrated IDEs like Eclipse, PyCharm.  • Experienced with version control systems like Git, Code Commit, Bit Bucket to keep the versions and configurations of the code organized.  • Excellent working knowledge in Unix and Linux shell environments using command line utilities  • Hands on experience working in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python) Architecture.  • Good knowledge using various Python libraries and Clients to speed up development (libraries used: boto3, PySpark, PyMongo, Psycopg, MYSQL Connector for database connectivity, etc.).  • Experience in Performance Tuning, Query Optimization, Client/Server Connectivity, and Database Consistency Checks, Backup and Recovery.  • Good knowledge of web services with protocols REST.  • Experience in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache.  • Experience with Unit Testing, System Integration Testing (SIT) and User Acceptance Testing (UAT).  • Expertise in Production support and Knowledge of deployment using Hudson and Jenkins.  • Experience in writing test scripts, test cases, test specifications and test coverage.  • Good amount of experience in handling errors/exceptions and debugging issues in large scale applications.  • Worked in the team and faced challenges during the project development and production process.  • Hands-on experience in writing and reviewing requirements, architecture documents, test plans, design documents, quality analysis and audits.  • Excellent analytical and problem-solving skills with efficient time management and result oriented attitude.  • Good interpersonal, very hands on attitude and approach, intrusive, Self-determined to assimilate and progress.  • Dedicated to tasks and provide good results and a good team player with strong communication skills.  • Willingness to work in a highly dynamic environment and ready to take up challenges. Work Experience Python Developer Advance Auto Parts - Raleigh, NC April 2019 to Present Responsibilities:  • Designed and Built Data pipelines to serve various business use cases such as ingesting into AWS S3 Data Lake, exporting data to consumers like ServiceNow, Sales Force, Oracle Cloud etc.  • Performed data exchange between systems in various formats such as JSON, CSV, Parquet, etc.  • Designed AWS Lambda functions in Python an enabler for triggering the shell script to ingest the data into Mongo DB and exporting data from Mongo DB to consumers.  • Designed Collections, performed CRUD operations, utilized aggregate pipelines in MongoDB.  • Implemented techniques for performance optimization such as Indexes, shard keys for Efficiency.  • Utilized AWS services like EC2, Lambda, Glue, DynamoDB, S3, KMS, CloudWatch, SNS, SQS for various data engineering tasks.  • Designed data engineering pipelines with several capabilities including data ingestion, Error Handling, capturing logs, scheduling, Checks and balances, event trigger, generating extracts, posting messages on MQ etc. in Python and AWS Lambda.  • Creating pipelines to load data into Snowflake using external stages to support downstream power BI dashboard.  • Built a pipeline to post messages to on premises IBM MQ from Local using Python code with pymqi.  • Created Glue scripts using PySpark and AWS Glue libraries using Python.  • Scanning DynamoDB table for attributes, updating items and creating Tables in DynamoDB.  • Proactively analyzed the output file as part of production roll out.  • Deploying code to different environment and perform thorough testing in each environment using Code Commit.  • Perform Unit testing, System Integration Testing, Regression Testing.  • Extensively used JIRA for project planning such creating stories, tasks and log activities on day-to-day basis.  • Working successfully in a team environment using Agile Scrum methodologies.  Environment: Python, Shell Script, MongoDB, AWS, Linux, JIRA, Bit Bucket, Code Commit, Git Bash, PySpark, AWS Lambda, SNS, S3, EC2, CloudWatch, SQS, DynamoDB, EMR, Snowflake, Kafka. Python Developer Newell Brands - Hoboken, NJ December 2018 to April 2019 Responsibilities:  • Writing python scripts to migrate data from different e-commerce websites to STIBO system.  • Designing and testing ETL data processes, capturing and analyzing business requirements, and developing reports.  • Excellent understanding of ETL process, data integration, data manipulation and data transformation and Python.  • Design, develop and maintain workflows and mappings using the appropriate data load technique.  • Writing Python scripts to extract data from XML'S.  • Identify and analyze data discrepancies and data quality issues and work to ensure data consistency and integrity.  • Work with Data Analysts to understand requirements and develop reports  • Writing python scripts to migrate data from different e-commerce websites to STIBO System (PIM).  • Performing bug fixes and perform manual testing and unit testing after the code is developed.  • Adding features on the portal and creating forms using Django Framework.  • Possess good experience with Object Relational Mapping(ORM).  • Good problem-solving skills and excellent communication skills.  • Working successfully in a team environment using Agile Scrum methodologies.  • Possess Excellent interpersonal skills and working with colleagues at various levels of the organization and across multiple locations.  Environment: Python, PIM, JIRA, Bit Bucket, XML, HTML, Windows Python Developer AdviNow Medical - Scottsdale, AZ January 2018 to November 2018 Responsibilities:  • Django Framework was used in developing web applications to implement the model view control architecture.  • Wrote and executed various MySQL database queries from Python using Python MySQL connector and MySQL dB Package  • Expertise in working with different databases like MySQL and PostgreSQL  • Hands on experience working in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python/PHP) Architecture.  • Familiarity with HL7 messages and FHIR standards.  • Possess good experience in Django ORM.  • Dealing with scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files. And writing scripts to migrate data from one database to another.  • Creating endpoints for posting data to consumers and for getting the data from consumers.  • Hands on experience with Django Web Framework and REST API's.  • Analyzed performance test requirements and developed test plans and have done debugging to understand test objective requirements  • Experience in building endpoints to let the external sources consume the data.  • Experience with object-oriented programming (OOP), model-view-controller (MVC) and test-driven development (TDD).  • Has experience implementing asynchronous programming models.  • Familiarity with containerization technologies like Docker.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Writing test scripts, test cases, test specifications and test coverage  • Experienced with full software development life cycle (SDLC), architecting scalable platforms, object-oriented programming, database design and agile methodologies.  • Experienced with Unit Testing, System Integration Testing (SIT)  Environment: Python, Django, Flask, HTML5, CSS, JSON, MySQL Server, PostgreSQL, Git, Linux, JIRA. Python Developer United Airlines - Chicago, IL January 2017 to December 2017 Responsibilities:  • Used Python, to place data into JSON files for testing Django Websites.  • Updated and manipulated content and files by using Python scripts.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Generated Python Django Forms to Record data of online users.  • Experience in Python and Django in creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation.  • Worked with Flask to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Developed tools using Python, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Involved development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Worked on rebranding the existing web pages to client according to the type of deployment.  • Worked on updating the existing clip board to have the new features as per the client requirements.  • Skilled in using collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures on MySQL Server.  • Used Maven to Validate, compile and deploy the files.  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile)  • Analyzed performance test requirements and developed test plans and have done debugging to understand test objective requirements.  Environment: Python, Django, HTML5, CSS, XML, MySQL Server, Maven, JIRA, Linux. Python Developer Walmart - Sunnyvale, CA May 2015 to December 2016 Responsibilities:  • Performed efficient delivery of code based on principles of Test-Driven Development (TDD) and continuous integration to keep in line with Agile Software Methodology principles.  • Different testing methodologies like unit testing, Integration testing, web application testing, Selenium testing were performed.  • Python/Django based web application, MY SQL integrations with 3rd party email, messaging, storage services.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python.  • Designed, implemented, validate and Tested custom scripts.  • Extensive use of version controller GIT.  • Managed, developed and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, Oracle DB.  • Handled potential points of failure through error handling and communication of failure.  • Troubleshoot the process execution and worked with other team members to correct them.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications. that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  • Good knowledge on NumPy, SciPy Libraries.  • Developed the required JSON Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing JSON documents.  • Debugging of custom software running on Windows and Linux operating systems is performed.  • Responsible for user validations on client side as well as server side.  • Automated the existing scripts for performance calculations using NumPy.  • Interacted with QA to develop test plans from high-level design documentation.  Environment: Python, XML, Oracle, Eclipse, Git, GitHub, Linux. Python Developer Covan Tech Private Limited - Hyderabad, Telangana February 2014 to December 2014 Responsibilities:  • Created entire application using Python, Django, My SQL.  • Developed applications especially in Linux environment and familiar with all its commands.  • Involved in development of Web Services using REST for sending and getting data from the external interface in the JSON format. Worked with Linux like OS on regular basis.  • Improved code reuse and performance by making effective use of various design patterns.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working with new code.  • Construct SQL queries implementing functions, packages, views, triggers, and tables.  • Involved in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support. Maintaining the scripts using the GIT version control tool.  • Maintaining customer database using MS EXCEL.  • Proactively worked with managers and development staff to meet project goals within expected timelines.  • Migrating code from Java, C++ to Python.  Environments: Python, SQL, MS SQL, Linux, Agile, GIT, Eclipse, JIRA. Skills Django, Javascript, Bootstrap, Jenkins, Json, Python, Flask, Reporting tools, Xml, Jira, Linux, Mysql, Postgresql, Sql, Dynamodb, Nosql, Html5, Soap, Css, Deployment Additional Information Technical Skills:    Languages Python, SQL, Shell Script  Markup Languages HTML5, CSS, JSON, XML, JavaScript, Bootstrap  Frameworks Django, Flask  AWS Services S3, Lambda, SNS, CloudWatch, SQS, DynamoDB  Protocols TCP/IP, HTTP/HTTPS, SOAP, SFTP  Version Control Tools Code Commit, Bitbucket and GitLab  Scrum Methodologies Waterfall and Agile  Operating Systems Windows, Linux (CentOS and Ubuntu)  Databases (NoSQL, Relational) Mongo DB, MySQL, PostgreSQL, DynamoDB, Snowflake  Deployment Tools Jenkins  IDE Tools PyCharm, Eclipse  Bug Reporting Tools JIRA