Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Navistar Springfield, OH • Overall 7 years of industrial experience as professional developer and has more than 4 years of experience in Designing, Developing, Deploying and maintaining web application based on Django - Python platforms  • More than 2 years of experience in developing Web Applications using Django and Flask inclusive of experience in UI using JavaScript, AngularJS and React-Redux.  • Experience in application development using PYTHON, Django, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, and jQuery, MySQL, PostgreSQL and SQLite.  • Designing and developing full-stack applications across multiple platforms using modern industry-adopted languages and frameworks.  • Worked on a new web app built in React and Redux using ES6.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework with GIT.  • Good experience of software development in Python (libraries used: Beautiful Soup, NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib, Pandas data frame, urllib2, MySQL dB for database connectivity) and IDEs - sublime text, PyCharm, Microsoft Visual Code.  • Strong knowledge of Object-Oriented Design and Programming concepts and Experience in Object Oriented Programming (OOP) concepts using Python, C++.  • Experienced in Working on Big Data Integration and Analytics based on Hadoop, Spark and No-SQL databases like HBase and MongoDB.  • Hands-on experience in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment.  • Experience in developing Web Services (REST API) with Python programming language.  • Experience in using Design Patterns such as MVC, Singleton and frameworks such as DJANGO.  • Basic knowledge on Rest API, JSON Parsing, jQuery and Angular JS  • Experience in Shell Scripting, SQL Server, UNIX and Linux.  • Developed consumer-based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML, Behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pair-based programming.  • Good knowledge of Apache server, Apache Server Tomcat, and Web logic in application servers.  • Experience in designing the automation framework using Shell scripting.  • Experience in Amazon Web Services (AWS) cloud platform like EC2, Virtual private clouds (VPCs), Storage models (EBS, S3, instance storage), Elastic Load Balancers (ELBs).  • Created EBS volumes for storing application files for use with EC2 instances whenever they are mounted to them.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Used python scripts to parse XML and JSON reports and load the information in database.  • Designed and developed presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Experienced in writing PERL script to extract data from text files, web automation and converting the file formats.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on SQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Experience with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins  • Experience with Unit testing/ Test driven Development (TDD), Load Testing.  • Used Python library Beautiful Soup for web scrapping.  • Experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and Sprints experience in a Python based environment.  • Highly motivated, dedicated, quick learner and have proven ability to work individually and as a team. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Navistar - Springfield, OH December 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Contributed to development of security policies and processes.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Refactor Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Development of Python APIs to dump the array structures in the Processor at the failure point for debugging.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Written functional PHP unit test cases for Data Layer, and Search server classes using Django, Curl, XML, JSON, REST base services and MongoDB.  • Creating restful web services for Catalog and Pricing with Django MVT, Jersey, MySQL, and MongoDB.  • Interact with backend using Java and Hibernate Framework.  • Involved in Coding of Enterprise Java Beans, which implements business rules, and business logic.  • Involved in developing the Java classes and JavaBeans.  • Representation of the system in hierarchy form by defining the components, subcomponents using Python and developed set of library functions over the system based on the user needs.  • Used Selenium Library to write fully functioning test automation process that allowed the simulation of submitting different requests from multiple browsers to web application.  • Involved in the development of guidelines/checklist for streamlining of activities for Data Management (DM) in study step-up to close-out phase.  • Tracked status and progress of data management for allocated projects/trials  • Represented data management and coordinated with internal/external teams.  • Played a key role in the Data Quality Improvement by reducing data errors.  • Created Data tables utilizing PyQt to display customer and policy information and add, delete, update customer records.  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation.  • Utilize in-depth knowledge of Technical experience in LAMP and other leading-edge products and technology in conjunction with industry and business skills to deliver solutions to customer.  • Worked PHP as a server side scripting language, for web pages.  • Used PHP to write dynamically generated pages quickly.  • Worked on middle tier and persistence layer. Created service and model layer classes and Value objects/POJO to hold values between java classes and database fields.  • Representation of the system in hierarchy form by defining the components, subcomponents using Python and developed set of library functions over the system based on the user needs.  • Used REST and SOAPUI for testing web service for server side changes.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.8, Celery, MongoDB, MySQL, AJAX, SOAP, REST, JQuery, JavaScript, Bootstrap, PyCharm, Apache Spark, AWS (EC2, S3, RDS), Google Cloud. Python Developer State of Oregon - Salem, OR September 2017 to November 2018 Responsibilities:  • Created APIs, database Model and Views UtilizationPythonin order to build responsive web page application.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed manyPython bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the CSS, HTML, JavaScript, and JQuery.  • Python/Django based web application, PostgreSQLDB, and integrations with 3rd party email, messaging, storage services.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed inPythonand Bash.  • Developed GUI using webapp2 for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of Python code using a web browser.  • Added support for Apache web server and RDS to host static/media files and the database into AmazonCloud.  • Developed user friendly and sophisticated graphicalrepresentation of the catalogue of items that would be configured for a piece of equipment.  • Hands-on experience in writing and reviewing requirements, architecture documents, test plans, design documents, quality analysis and audits.  • Taken part in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Generating various capacity planning reports (graphical) using Python packages like Numpy, matplotlib.  • Automated different workflows, which are initiated manually with Python scripts and UNIX shell scripting.  • Python Object Oriented Design code for manufacturing quality, monitoring, logging, and debuggingcodeoptimization.  • Carried out various mathematical operations for calculation purpose using python libraries.  • Built various graphs for business decision making using Python matplotlib library.  • Fetched twitter feeds for certain important keyword using python-twitter library.  • Used Python library BeautifulSoup for web scrapping to extract data for building graphs.  • Job scheduling, batch-job scheduling, process control, forking and cloning of jobs and checking the status of the jobs using shellscripting.  • Monitoring Python scripts run as daemons in the UNIX/Linux system background to collect trigger and feed arrival information. Helped calculating SLA misses.  • Work on SCR's (source change request). involved working on Perl, Python,PHP and ShellScripting.  • CreatedPython/MySQL back-end for data entry from Flash. I had to assist the Flash developer send the correct data via query strings. Used Wireshark, live http headers, and Fiddler2 debugging proxy to debug the Flash object and help the developer create a functional component.  • Ensured code quality by writing unit tests using Pytest.  • Used JIRA for bug tracking and issue tracking and added several options to the application to choose particular algorithm for data and address generation.    ENVIRONMENT: Python, Django, HTML5, CSS, XML, AJAX, MySQL, JavaScript, Angular JS, Backbone JS, JQuery, Pyquery, Bootstrap, Mongo DB, Postgre SQL, T-SQL, JavaScript, Eclipse, Git, GitHub, AWS, Linux, Shell Scripting Python Developer Shell - Atlanta, GA September 2016 to August 2017 Responsibilities:  • Exposed to various phases of Software Development Life Cycle using Agile - Scrum Software development methodology.  • Implemented Design Patterns like Singleton, Factory, Template and DAO patterns.  • Selecting appropriate AWS services to design and deploy an application based on given requirements  • Used AWS Beanstalk for deploying and scaling web applications and services developed with Java, PHP, Node.js, Python, Ruby, and Docker on familiar servers such as Apache, and IIS.  • Developed strategy to migrate Dev/Test/Production from an enterprise VMware infrastructure to the IaaSAmazon Web Services (AWS) Cloud environment including runbook processes and procedures.  • Leveraged AWS cloud services such as EC2, auto-scaling and VPC to build secure, highly scalable and flexible systems that handled expected and unexpected load bursts.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into AmazonCloud.  • Coded various business process methods required for creation of Web Services related to customer information and provider information, using JAX-WS, SOAP, WSDL and JAX-RS, REST web services.  • Worked with Requests, Pysftp, Gnupg, ReportLab, Numpy, Scipy, Matplotlib, HTTPLib2, Urllib2, Beautiful Soup and Pandas python libraries during development lifecycle  • Created Data tables utilizing PyQt to display patient and policy information and add, delete, update patient records.  • Developed high-performance distributed queueing system. Scala, Redis, Akka, closure, MQ messaging, Json Developed new functionality for interactive healthcare system.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Implemented presentation layer using CSS framework, NodeJS, AngularJS, Angular2, Angular4,Wire-Framing and HTML5.  • Responsible for setting up AngularJS framework for UI development. Developed html views with HTML5, CSS3, JSON and AngularJS, Angular2, Angular4,Adobe flash.  • Used Ansible for automating cloud deployment process.  • Created new JSP views to incorporate backend functionality to display on the UI screens using client rich technologies like JQuery, JavaScript, HTML, CSS files.  • Taken part in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Python/Django based web application, PostgreSQLDB, and integrations with 3rd party email, messaging, storage services.  • Developed Restful API's using Python Flask and SQLAlchemy data models as well as ensured code quality by writing unit tests using Pytest.  • Job scheduling, batch-job scheduling, process control, forking and cloning of jobs and checking the status of the jobs using shellscripting.  • Worked on PythonOpenStack APIs and used Numpy for Numerical analysis.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to created user-friendly website interface.  • Involved in deployment using Docker Container on AWS.  • Involved in configured DNS, DHCP, Active Directory, with strong focus on Domain Controller maintenance including Windows Server.  • Developed Restful API's using Python Flask and SQLAlchemy data models as well as  • Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, OracleDB, PostgreSQL, and VMWareAPI calls.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, MySQL, Jenkins, and custom tools developed in Python.  • Managed datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL, queried MySQL database queries from Python using Python -MySQL connector MySQLdb package to retrieve information.  • Develop consumer based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML, Behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pairbasedprogramming.  • Designed and developed integration methodologies between client web portals and existing software infrastructure using SOAP API's and vendor specific frameworks.  • Designed, developed, implemented, and maintained solutions for using Docker, Jenkins, Git, and Puppet for microservices and continuous deployment.  • Utilized PyUnit, the PythonUnit test framework, for all Python applications and used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Used JIRA for bug tracking and issue tracking and added several options to the application to choose particular algorithm for data and address generation.  • Implemented Log4j mechanism for logging at different modules within the application.  • Implemented Test Driven development (TDD) using frameworks like Junit, Mockito and Easy mock.    Environment: Python 2.7, DJango 1.7, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, Bootstrap, Apache Web Server, AJAX, JQuery, Pandas, MySQL, Restful APIs, JavaBeans, Servlets, Agile, Scrum, Heroku, JIRA, GIT. Python Developer Hans InfoTech - IN December 2013 to May 2016 Responsibilities:  • Developed strategic partnerships with the business unit to develop a solid knowledge base of the business line, including the business plan, products and processes.  • Created Use-Case diagrams and State diagrams using MS Visio.  • Created entire application using Python, Django, MySQL and Linux.  • Implemented and tested many features for dashboard using Flask, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture  • Creation and deployment of AWS EC2 environments for proof of concept of design assumptions  • Introduced to encapsulate the existing structures used by Keymap and help S3 Index/Keymap scale infinitely  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation  • Utilized PyUnit, the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications.  • Wrote Python OO Design code for manufacturing quality, monitoring, logging, and debugging code optimization.  • Designing ETL process and creation of ETL design and system design documents.  • Involved in Installation and setting up Python /Linux test beds.  • Worked with JSON based REST Web services.  • Architecting and deploying AWS EC2 and S3-based environments  • Worked in Python on a SQL database.  • Delivered presentations on Project Status and Current Open Issues Report to Users, Stakeholders and other involved groups.  • Conducted weekly meetings with the development and testing team to relay any changed requirements and updates on the development and testing.  • Played a key role in the planning, testing, and implementing system enhancements and conversions.  • Worked closely with project manager in handling the whole project.    Environment: Python 3.x, Django, Flask, Shell Scripting, AWS, Pandas, PyUnit, OOAD, MS Visio, HTTP, JSON, PHP, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JavaScript, Bootstrap, Apache Web Server, MYSQL, GitHub, LINUX. Python Developer Zensar technologies - Hyderabad, Telangana September 2012 to November 2013 Responsibilities:  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Work with team of developers on python applications for RISK management.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript  • Made Django web based apps for Insurance premium calculations.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python.  • Rewrite existing Java, C++ application in Python.  • Used Django APIs for database access.  • Used Python to extract weekly hotel availability information from XML files.  • Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis.  • Used Apache Couchdb (NoSQL) in AWS Linux instance in parallel to RDS MySQL to store and analyze job market info.  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  • Developed ColdFusion Components, custom tags and modified CF Objects.  • Designed the architecture of the hardware environments and methodology of the code.  • Involved in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment  • Wrote AJAX framework to transform Datasets and tables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings.  • Build SQL, NO SQL queries implementing functions, packages, views, triggers, and tables.  Environment: Python 2.x, Django 1.4, Java Script, Matplotlib, Plotly, HTML, JQuery, JSON, AJAX, XML, CSS, Oracle, MySQL, Bootstrap, SOAP Web Services, Beautiful Soup, Jenkins, SVN, Linux, Eclipse. Education Master's Skills Django, Docker, Git, Javascript, Perl, Php, Python, Ruby, Scripting, Css, Sharepoint, Microsoft sql server, Sql server, Mysql, Oracle, Pl/sql, Sql, Android, Ios, Linux