Senior Python Developer Senior <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Python Developer - MR. Cooper Santa Ana, CA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Python Developer MR. Cooper - Santa Ana, CA July 2018 to Present • Designed and developed the User Interface for the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS, JavaScript and JSON.  • Successfully migrated the database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data Integrity.  • Developed merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  • Used Django Database APIs to access database objects.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Handled all the client-side validation using JavaScript.  • Pyspark performance optimization; Worked extensively with AWS support to optimize performance of this Pyspark application. Addressed dynamic allocation, cluster vs client mode, data frame API vs spark SQL in iterative loops.  • Expertise in writing Constraints, Indexes, Views, Stored Procedures, Cursors, Triggers and User Defined Function.  • Involved in data modeling the tables in Cassandra.  • Created several tables as a part of data modeling and determined the performance of the table through load testing with Cassandra -stress tool.  • Restoring the backups through sstableloader tool in Cassandra  • Familiar with all the internal tools of Cassandra.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Embedded AJAX in UI to update small portions of the web page avoiding the need to reload the entire page.  • Worked in using React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations and Flux concept  • Developed user interface by using the React JS, Flux for SPA development.  • Implemented react JS code to handle cross browser compatibility issues  • Implemented data analysis with various analytical tools such as Python/SQL, Pandas, NumPy, Matplotlib, Stats models, Gensim, Jupyter Notebook, and Anaconda.  • Worked on data queries to obtain lists of references from online databases for analysis.  • Used Perl in web automation and in developing web chat box for the customers.  • Used Test driven approach for developing the application and Implemented the unit tests using Python Unit test framework.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Maintenance and continues development of the applications in PL/SQL procedures, ETL modules and shell scripting using best practices.  • Implementing customer data collection with PySpark analytics  • Implemented of Automation framework, database testing using AutoEasy.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Implemented pyspark for Transformation and Actions in Spark.  • Implemented various Spark Actions and Transformations by creating RDD's in HDFS.  • Developed Spark scripts by using Scala IDE's as per the business requirement.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Implemented task object to interface with data feed framework and invoke database message service setup and update functionality.  • Cleaned data and processed third party spending data into maneuverable deliverables within specific formats with Excel macros and python libraries.  • Supporting the data warehousing application to make sure the jobs are run as scheduled and the SLAs are met.  • Maintaining the application for daily operations and scaling according to Business requirements.  • Involved in the Complete Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) to develop the application.  • Followed AGILE development methodology to develop the application.    Environment: Python 3.x, Django, Cassandra 2.1, Go language, Pyspark, Shell Scripting, AWS, Pandas, PyQt, PyQuery, Flash, DOM, JSON, PHP, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JavaScript, Bootstrap, Apache Web Server, MYSQL, GitHub, LINUX. Python Developer XORIENT - Pune, Maharashtra July 2013 to July 2017 • Involved in analysis, specification, design, and implementation and testing phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and used agile methodology for developing application.  • Participate in requirement gathering and analysis phase of the project in documenting the business requirements by conducting workshops/meetings with various business users  • Worked with team of developers on Python applications for RISK management  • Worked on Python Open stack API's, used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files  • Implemented machine learning schemes using Python libraries Scikit-learn and SciPy.  • Experience in MVC architecture using Django for web based application in OOP concepts.  • Worked on several python packages like Matpoltlib, Pillow, NumPy, SQL Alchemy, and sockets.  • Designed and deployed machine learning solutions in Python to classify millions of previously unclassified Twitter users into core data product  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular form for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval to handle time series data and do data manipulation  • Worked on front end frame works like CSS, Angular JS, Bootstrap for development of Web application.  • Developed views and templates with Python and view controller of Django and templating language to create a user-friendly interface using MVC architecture.  • Responsible for Data extraction mining cleansing from several databases like SQL Server, Oracle and other external files using SAS Miner, SSIS.  • Worked with batch files and ran SAS programs using UNIX shell scripts.  • Extensively Worked with Biostatisticians and clinical data managers to provide SAS program that analyze the data, generate reports, tables,  • Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) for improved efficiency of storage and fast access.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Using Git version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript, also used Bootstrap as a mechanism to manage and organize the html page layout  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL db package  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile)    Environment: Python 3.3.0 and above versions , Django, Windows, Linux, Angular JS, libraries - (NumPy, SciPy, Pandas, PyCharm, PyQuery, Matpoltlib), SQL Alchemy, MVC, HTML5, Shell Scripting, JSON, AWS, Apache Web Server, SQL, UNIX. Python Developer ATOS - Pune, Maharashtra April 2012 to June 2013 • Used the Django Framework to develop the application.  • Created specific images using Python Imaging Library for the custom images used for each movie.  • Involved in creating and scheduling of python based ETL scripts and batch files using celery and celery beat.  • Created thin clients for the aggregators in PHP and DotNet.  • Involved in creating data models and database designing and optimizing the database for better performance.  • Worked with and developed RESTful web services, SOAP web services, .net web API 4.  • Updated and manipulated content and files by using python scripts.  • Implemented web applications in Flask and Tornado and spring frameworks following MVC architecture.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation.  • Integrated elastic search for image and data searching.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Managed datasets using MySQL, queried MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package to retrieve information.    Environment: Python 3, Django, HTML, CSS, XML, MySQL, JavaScript, Backbone JS, JQuery, CSS Bootstrap, MongoDB, T-SQL, JavaScript, Eclipse, Git, GitHub, AWS, Linux, Shell Scripting. Education Master's in Computer Science Sacred Heart University August 2017 to July 2018 Bachelor of Computer Applications in Computer Applications Sardar Vallabh Bhai Institute of Technology - Gujrat June 2009 to March 2012 Skills C#, Django, Docker, Git, Html, Javascript, Bootstrap, Reactjs, Jenkins, Php, Python, Flask, Matplotlib, Numpy, Pandas, Svn, Xml, Mysql, Oracle, Pl/sql, CSS, HTML 5, Jquery Links http://linkedin.com/in/pavan-kumar-4a8292190