Python/Django Developer <span class="hl">Python</span>/Django <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python/Django Developer - Vanguard Dallas, TX • 8+ Years of professional experience in Analysis, Design, Development and Implementation of various client-server applications using Python.  • Experienced with full software development life-cycle, designing and architecting scalable platforms, object-oriented programming, database design and agile methodologies.  • Experienced in MVC frameworks like Django.  • Experience object-oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python.  • Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, Python /PHP) and (Linux, Apache, MySQL, Python /PHP) Architecture  • Experienced in Python's modules like NumPy, regular expressions, collections, dates & times and OS modules.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, FLASK, XML, CSS, HTML.  • Experience with Unit testing/ Test driven Development (TDD), Load Testing.  • Used Pylint as to catch the bugs before the deployment.  • Good experience in PL/SQL programming including complex SQL queries using stored procedures and Triggers in Oracle, SQL Server using TOAD and Query Manager.  • Performed DevOps for Linux Mac and Windows platforms.  • Gained good working experience on DevOps Environment by working on various technologies/applications like Ansible, Chef, GIT, SVN, Jenkins, Docker.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Developed Restful API's integrating web exe with Django and Python implementations with data exchange through JSON and XML formats.  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  • Involved in implementing the complete Application in the in-build Spring MVC Architecture.  • Hands-on experience in writing and reviewing product specifications, technical specifications, test plans and quality analysis.  • Designed Puppet Modules to manage configurations and automate installation process and developed automation scripting in Python using Puppet to deploy and manage Java applications across Linux servers.  • Excellent analytical and problem-solving skills with efficient time management and result oriented attitude.  • Experience in Cloud computing window Azure (AWS)  • Experience in maintaining all the tools like Bamboo, Bit Bucket, Confluence, JIRA, and GIT.  • Experience in deploying applications in heterogeneous Application Servers TOMCAT, Web Logic and Oracle Application. Server.  • Good experience in Amazon AWS concepts like EMR, S3 and EC2 web services which provides fast and efficient processing of Big Data.  • Good experience with cloud platforms like Amazon AWS and Google App Engine.  • Created Python scripts to automate AWS services which include web servers, ELB, Cloud front distribution, databases, security groups and application configuration  • Good interpersonal, very hands on attitude and approach, Inquisitive, Self-determined to learn and improve.  • Good Experience in Linux Shell Scripting (Bash) and following PEP Guidelines in Python.  • Experience in handling database issues and connections with SQL and NoSQL databases like MongoDB (2.6, 2.4) by installing and configuring various packages in python (Teradata, MySQL dB, MySQL connector, PyMongo and SQL Alchemy)  • Proficient in writing SQL Queries, Stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, triggers using relational databases like DB2 and MySQL.  • Experience in administering and supporting the CM tools including Subversion and CVS on UNIX environments.  • Configured AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) Groups and Users for improved login authentication.  • Good idea using debugging tools like Bugzilla and JIRA.  • Proficient in designing Model, View, Database Architecture for a given requirement or problem statement irrespective of underlying technology. Work Experience Python/Django Developer Vanguard - Charlotte, NC April 2017 to Present Description: The Vanguard Group is an American registered investment advisor based in Malvern, Pennsylvania with over trillion in assets under management. It is the largest provider of mutual funds and the second-largest provider of exchange-traded funds. In addition to mutual funds and ETFs, Vanguard offers brokerage services, variable and fixed annuities, educational account services, financial planning, asset management, and trust services    Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed Python/Django framework for REST Services.  • Imported/Exported data between different data sources using SQL Server Management Studio.  • Created and tested many features for dashboard using python and JavaScript.  • Maintained program libraries, user's manuals and technical documentation.  • Managed large datasets using MySQL and Panda data frames.  • Executed various MySQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Reviewed all the architecture documents, test plans, design documents, quality analysis and audits.  • Develop data cleansing, retrieval, migration tools (ETL)  • Experience in working on source controller tools like GitHub (GIT)  • Worked with multiple DevOps methodologies and tools Continuous Integration (CI) / Continuous Delivery tools (Jenkins) Infrastructure.  • Experience in creating custom VPC's and IAM roles, users, groups.  • Experience in AWS and familiar with EC2, Cloud watch and Elastic IP's and managing security groups on AWS.  • Primary duties include Build and Deployment of the java applications onto different environments like Dev, QA, UAT and Production. Analyze and resolve compilation and deployment errors related to code development, branching, merging and building of source code.  • Worked across different graphs for business decision making purposes using Python matplot library.  • Deployed many Python bugfixes of the two main applications that are main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  • Keeping mind of customer requirements and scope of project created some important Business Rules.  • Performed various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete using SQL queries.  • Worked across the Life cycle of the projects combining Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Imported Data from the relational database into SAS files as per detailed specifications.  • Used SAS macros to increase the efficiency of the cod and automate the report run.  • For developing statistical Analysis have used Pandas library.  • Architectural development of the hardware environments and methodology of the code is implemented.  • Refactored existing project to make it more RESTFUL and thread safe.  • Developed Processes using Python to feed data into MS SQL Server.  • Unit test were improved, and the existing ones were also fixed.  • Created project designs using MVC architecture components.    Environment: Python, Django, HTML5/CSS, UNIX, MySQL, MS SQL Server 2013, T-SQL, Eclipse, Linux, Shell Scripting, RESTful, MVC, Unix/Linux, VMware, Ansible, MAVEN, C, GIT, Jenkins, Chef, Docker, ANT, Apache. Python Developer T-Mobile - Seattle, WA July 2015 to February 2017 Description: T-Mobile is the brand name used by the mobile communications subsidiaries of the German telecommunications company Deutsche Telekom AG. Deutsche Telekom transformed its structure to adopt a regional setup (Germany, Europe, USA) by combining its previously separated fixed and mobile subsidiaries to form integrated local businesses, T-Mobile International itself was merged into Deutsche Telekom AG.    Responsibilities:  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, BootstrapJS, CSS, XML & HTML.  • Develop installer scripts using Ant, Python, Unix for various products to be hosted on Application Servers.  • Implemented business logic for integrating third party API's using Python.  • Designed and developed the application using Angular2 framework along with HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript.  • Worked with millions of database records on daily basis, finding common errors and bad data patterns and fixing them.  • Maintained program libraries, user's manuals and technical documentation.  • Used Python libraries like Beautiful Soup, NumPy and SQL Alchemy.  • Worked on Python OpenStack APIs and used NumPy for Numerical analysis.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture.  • Work with team of developers on python applications for RISK management.  • Taken part in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Developed efficient Angular.js for client web-based application.  • Extensively used ANT tool to do the builds, integrated ANT to Eclipse and did local builds. Integrated Maven with Jenkins for the builds as the Continuous Integration process.  • Using Chef and AWS allowed me to reduce costs for the department and eliminate unwarranted resources. Automated provisioning of cloud infrastructure with Chef.  • Responsible for on boarding Application teams to build and deploy the code using GitHub Jenkins, Nexus and Ansible.  • Experience with setting up Chef Infra, bootstrapping nodes, creating and uploading recipes, node convergence in Chef SCM.  • Working with backend python automation, CI pipelines, Docker and cloud provisioning/automation.  • Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, jQuery and RESTAPI calls.  • Designed the architecture of the hardware environments and methodology of the code:  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Thorough knowledge in various front-end tools like HTML, DHTML, CSS, XML, jQuery.  • Created PHP/MySQL back-end for data entry from Flash  • Used Python based GUI components for the front-end functionality such as selection criteria.  • Created test harness to enable comprehensive testing utilizing Python.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django, CSS, HTML, UNIX, Angular, MS SQL Server 2013, T-SQL, Linux, Shell Scripting, RESTful, MVC3, Git. Python Developer Schulmberger - Dallas, TX February 2014 to June 2015 Description: Schlumberger Limited is the world's largest oilfield services company. Schlumberger employs approximately 100, 000 people representing more than 140 nationalities working in more than 85 countries. Schlumberger has four principal executive offices located in Paris, Houston, London, and the Hague. Schlumberger is incorporated in Willemstad, Curacao as Schlumberger N.V and trades on the New York Stock Exchange, Euronext Paris, the London Stock Exchange, and SIX Swiss Exchange    Responsibilities:  • Extracted and loaded data using Python scripts and PL/SQL packages.  • Associated with preparing engineering specification with OOA and OOD. Used UML Tools to develop Use Case diagrams, Class diagrams, Collaboration and Sequence Diagrams, State Diagrams and Data Modeling.  • Developed various reports using Python and Oracle DB.  • Used Apache Active MQ for updating the orders, trades to various subscribers.  • Worked on P&L tracking system to update in near real-time system.  • Created Data layer in MYSQL.  • Imported and managed multiple corporate applications into GIT.  • Integrated GIT into Jenkins to automate the code check-out process.  • Implemented a CI/CD pipeline involving Git, Jenkins, Chef, and Docker, for complete automation from commit to deployment.  • Involved in Configuration Automation and Centralized Management with Ansible and Implemented Ansible to manage all existing servers and automate the build/configuration of new servers.  • Involved in writing various Custom Ansible Playbooks for deployment orchestration and developed Ansible Playbooks to simplify and automate day-to-day server administration tasks.  • Installed and Configured Chef Enterprise and Chef Workstation hosted as well as On-Premise; Bootstrapped Nodes; Wrote Recipes, Cookbooks and uploaded them to Chef-server.  • Worked with the Database Schema design and normalization for database accessed by the procedural PHP pages.  • Supported Java application for Media portal management.  • Generated SWIG interfaces to co-ordinate between C++, Java and Python, used JNI for communication between C++ and Java.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using python.  • Debugging and testing of the applications and finetuning performance. Provided maintenance support in production environment.    Environment: Python, Java, JavaScript, HTML/CSS, MySQL, PL/SQL, JDBC, Unix Shell Scripting, Unix/Linux, VMware, Ansible, MAVEN, C, GIT, Jenkins, Chef, Docker, ANT, Apache, Tomcat, Artifacts, AWS TCP/IP, UDP, SNMP, Red Hat Linux Python Developer Anthem - Des Moines, IA December 2012 to February 2014 Description: Anthem Inc. is an American health insurance company founded in the 1940s, prior to 2014 known as WellPoint Inc.It is the largest for-profit managed health care company in the Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association. It was formed when Anthem Insurance Company acquired WellPoint Health Networks Inc, with the combined company adopting the name WellPoint, Inc, trading on the NYSE for the combined company began under the WLP symbol.    Responsibilities:  • Requirement gathering and analysis phase of the project in documenting the business requirements by conducting workshops/meetings with various business users.  • Used Django/ Python web-framework to develop application.  • Developed Scripting based frameworks on python using Linux Platform used by embedded engineers for automating mundane tasks.  • Built some frameworks which allow writing scripts in python, which will send and receive data over serial port to communicate with device firmware.  • Developed some test scripts in Python that are used to test embedded systems via their debug UART port.  • Used Perl for creating tools to help integrate and generate C code from Excel Input or XML files.  • Extensively used Python requests urllib and urllib2 module to call web services.  • Worked on Python OpenStack APIs and used NumPy for Numerical analysis.  • Worked on real time in memory distributed systems.  • Used MVC framework to build modular and amp maintainable applications.  • Designed and developed transactions and persistence layers to save/retrieve/modify data for application functionalities using Django and PostgreSQL.  • Involved in building database Model and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web-based solution.  • Developed UI screens using HTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript and jQuery  • Done Integration of user-facing elements developed by a front-end developer with server-side logic.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard, created using Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Experience in using Pylint to check for errors in Python code, tries to enforce coding standards and get details about code complexity.  • Involved in problem solving with algorithm and data structures using Python.  • Used AWS for application deployment and configuration.  • Designed and implemented test procedures for failover/ recovery scenarios.  • Created numerous reports using reportlab and xlrt/xlwt python packages.  • Developed Network modules, Socket programming and Web server hosting capabilities of Python for some applications (ex. IoT devices)  • Resolved ongoing problems and accurately documented progress of Python project.  • Used agile development techniques like pair programming, test driven development (both unit tests and functional tests), continuous integration and iterative development.  • Complete software development was designed and implemented using Agile Methodology and SCRUM Process.  Environment: Python, Django, NumPy, Amazon (AWS, EC2, S3), PostgreSQL, Pylint, JIRA, Linux, Perl Scripting, Socket programming, SVN. Python Java Developer ARIS Global - Bengaluru, Karnataka June 2010 to October 2012 Responsibilities:  • Involved in the Analysis, design and architecture of the application.  • Worked on requirement gathering and High-level design.  • Created PHP/MySQL back-end for data entry from Flash i had to assist the Flash developer send the correct data via query strings.  • Used HTML/CSS, XML and JavaScript for UI development.  • Converted Visual Basic Application to Python, MySQL.  • Generated Python Django Forms, Crispy forms to record data, login and signup of online users  • Experience in development test automation.  • Wrote UNIX shell scripts to fetch, parse, and load data from external sources.  • Designed and Implemented a Random Unique Test Selector Package on processing large volume of data using Python and Django ORM.  • Involved in building applications using ReactJS by building re-usable UI Components.  • Skilled in using collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  • Created large datasets by combining individual datasets using various inner and outer joins in SAS/SQL and dataset merging techniques of SAS/BASE.  • Used SAS PROC SQL Pass through Facility to work with Oracle database.  • Created data base tables, functions, stored procedures and wrote prepared statements using PL/SQL.  • Modified queries, functions, cursors, triggers and stored procedures for MySQL database to improve performance, while processing data.  • Extensive code reviewing using GitHub pull requests, improved code quality, and also conducted meetings among peer.  • Responsible for Parsing XML data using XML parser and Testing, fixing of the bugs and coding modifications.  • Database Administration activities like taking backup, checking log messages, looking for database optimization.  • Used Redis as messaging broker to execute asynchronous tasks.  • Designed and implemented a dedicated MYSQL database server to drive the web applications and report on daily progress.    Environment: MySQL, Linux, HTML, CSS, jQuery, JavaScript, Apache, ReactJS, Linux Education Bachelor's Skills CSS (8 years), DATABASE (8 years), LINUX (8 years), PYTHON (8 years), MYSQL (7 years) Additional Information Technical Skills    Programming Languages Python, C, C++, Java, shell scripting.    Operating Systems Windows, Mac OS, Linux, Debian, Ubuntu  Web Technologies HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, XML, DOM, AJAX, jQuery, JSON and CSS Bootstrap, Perl.  Frameworks Django, Flask, Pyramid, PyJamas, Jython, Cython  Python Libraries ReportLab, NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib, HTTPLib2, Urllib2, Beautiful Soup, Pickle, Pandas  Cloud Services Amazon Web services, Google app Engine.  IDE'S Sublime Text 2, Vim, PyCharm, PyDev, NetBeans, Eclipse.  Database MySQL, Sqlite3, Postgresql, Cassandra, Redis and mongo DB.  Deployment tools Heroku, Amazon EC2, Jenkins and Fabric  Protocols TCP/IP, HTTP/HTTPS, SOAP, REST  Version Control Systems CVS, SVN, Git and GitHub.  Agile Methodologies TTD, SCRUM