Python developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">developer</span> Python developer - T. Rowe Price San Francisco, CA • Experienced professional with 5+ years of technical exposure in diverse technologies like Python, Django, PostgreSQL, Linux, MySQL and AWS.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, DJANGO, GTK, QT, C++, JSON, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Hands-on experience in SOAP and RESTful web services.  • Hands-on experience in relational database connections like DB-API connection management and query-based access to databases like PostgreSQL and MySQL in Python.  • Experienced in MVW frameworks like Django, Angular.js, Java Script, JQuery and Node.js.  • Having working Knowledge of Amazon AWS S3.  • Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  • Having experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Experienced in working on Application Servers like WebSphere, WebLogic, Tomcat, Web Servers like Apache server, NGINX and Integrated Development Environments like PyCharm, Eclipse, MyEclipse, JDeveloper and RAD.  • Expertise in PIP (community most used Python Package Manager), PyVows (BDD tool for Python).  • Expertise in working with GUI frameworks-Pyjamas, Jytho, guidata, PyGUI, PyQt PyWebkitGtk and Experienced with Elasticsearch, Log stash and Kibana (ELK).  • Expertise in Crypto Blockchain (Bitcoin, Monaro, Bitcoin Cash) E-commerce platform built utilizing Python with Flask back-end and Jinja/JavaScript front-end.  • Good experience in Shell Scripting, SQL Server, UNIX and Linux, Open stack. Involved in Unit testing, Integration testing, User-Acceptance testing, and Functional testing.  • Experience in working with different operating systems Windows 98 / NT / 2000 / XP / Vista / 7 / 8, UNIX, and MAC OS X.  • Excellent written and oral communication skills with results-oriented attitude.  • Experienced in Microservices architecture using technologies such as Docker, AWS Lambda, Serverless design patterns. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python developer T. Rowe Price - San Francisco, CA November 2018 to Present Developed and designed Python based API (RESTful Web Service) to interact with company's website.  ? Successfully implemented Django framework to design server applications.  ? Wrote Python code and actively participated in the procedure to automate processes.  ? Build and test functionality within a production pipeline.  ? Implemented Python code to fix bugs and provides upgrades to existing functionality.  ? Created Business Logic using Python to create Planning and Tracking functions.  ? Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web-based solution.  ? Developed Business Logic using Python on Django Web Framework.  ? Utilized PyQt to provide GUI for the user to create, modify and view reports based on client data.  ? Developed complex web, middleware, and back end systems in Python, SQL for Linux and Windows.  ? Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  ? Involved in front end and utilized Bootstrap and Angular.js for page design. Created Data tables utilizing PyQt to display customer and policy information and add, delete, update customer records.  ? Used PyQuery for selecting particular DOM elements when parsing HTML. Used Wireshark, live http headers, and Fiddler debugging proxy to debug the Flash object and help the developer create a functional component. Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  ? Worked with python editors like PyCharm, PyScripter, PyStudio, PyDev, Wing IDE and Spyder.  ? Worked with open-stack services such as NOVA, SWIFT, KEYSTONE, NEUTRON, CINDER and GLANCE. Used J2EE Design patterns (Singleton, Service Locator and DAO).  ? Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  ? Developed Kafka producer and consumers, HBase clients, Spark, shark, Streams and Hadoop MapReduce jobs along with components on HDFS, Hive.  ? Leveraged AWS cloud services such as EC2, auto scaling and VPC to build secure, highly scalable and flexible systems that handled load on the servers.  ? Worked on Microservices architecture using technologies such as Docker, AWS Lambda, Serverless design patterns.  ? Worked on analyzing Hadoop stack and different big data analytic tools including Pig, Hive, HBase database and DynamoDB.  ? Used Amazon Elastic Beanstalk with Amazon EC2 instance to deploy Django project into AWS. Configured continuous integration with Jenkins on Amazon EC2.  ? Connected continuous integration system with GIT version control repository and continually build as the check-in's come from the developer.  ? Involved in converting Hive/SQL queries into Spark transformations using Spark RDDs, Python and Scala.  ? Container management using Docker by writing Docker files and set up the automated build on Docker HUB and installed and configured Kubernetes.  ? Created Data- pipelines and configured EMR Cluster to offload the data to Redshift.  Configured Data- pipelines (with EMR Cluster) to offload the data to Redshift.  ? Configured and administered Jenkins for continuous integration and deployment into Tomcat Application Server and to improve reusability for building pipelines.  ? Created data pipelines in AWS using AWS native services like Lambda,EC2 and are aware of big data transformation. Python Developer HP - Palo Alto, CA September 2017 to October 2018 Writing REST APIs, as part of developing web-based applications for insurance premium calculations, using Django REST framework.  ? Heavily leveraged Python's graphics APIs for creating graphics and serialization libraries for encoding data in XML/JSON formats.  ? Also involved in writing REST APIs using Django framework for data exchange and business logic implementation.  ? Experience in using collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  ? Design and implemented custom Bash scripts for controlling the data flow from the PostgreSQL database.  ? Assisted the development team in sending the correct data via query strings using PostgreSQL as the back-end for storing data.  ? Using SQL Alchemy with Flask and PostgreSQL as database for developing the web application.  ? Used REST and SOAP API for testing web service for server-side changes.  ? Developing scripts for build, deployment, maintain and related task using Jenkins, Maven, Python, Bash.  ? Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  ? Managed code versioning with GitHub, Bitbucket and deployment to staging and production servers.  ? Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  ? Wrote Python scripts to XML documents and load the data in the database.  ? Designed and developed application front-end GUI using JSP, HTML, JavaScript, CSS, Ajax.  ? Designed controller and business logic using Spring MVC module.  ? Developed forms using HTML and performing client-side validations using JavaScript, JQuery and Bootstrap.  ? Extensively developed stored procedures, triggers, functions and packages in oracle SQL, PL/SQL.  ? Utilized Python in the handling of all the hits on Django, Redis, and other applications.  ? Implemented SOAP using web services to interact with various devices to pull real-time data on the network.  ? Loading, analyzing and extracting data to and from Oracle Database with Python.  ? Used standard Python modules e.g., csv, itertools, jinja for development.  ? Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  ? Cleansing data generated from weblogs with automated scripts in Python.  ? Using Mongo DB-NoSQL database for storing the information.  ? Used SVN repository for software configuration management and version control. Python Developer BNY Mellon - IN August 2012 to March 2015 Involved in the Design, development, test, deploy and maintenance of the website. UI was developed using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  ? Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework. Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python.  ? Developed internal auxiliary web apps using Python Flask framework with CSS / HTML framework. Implemented Test Driven Development (TDD) strategy for the project.  ? Developed Python batch processors to consume and produce various feeds. Created database access layer using JDBC and PL/SQL stored procedures.  ? Responsible for search engine optimization to improve the visibility of the website. Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  ? Used Angular.JS built-in directives, custom directives and services for developing interceptor and complex UI data table grids.  ? Created Angular.JS controllers, services and used Angular.JS filters for filter functionality in search box and integrator functionalities.  ? Utilized Python specific tools including Django, Django Rest Framework, Django ORM, Flask, SQL Alchemy, Pandas, NumPy.  ? Performed Unit testing, Integration Testing, GUI and web application testing using Spec.  ? Involved in writing SQL Queries and implementing stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, Cursors, triggers.  ? Deployed the project into WebLogic using GIT version control system.  ? Worked in MySQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization and renormalization.  ? Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete. Python Developer Accenture - IN July 2011 to July 2012 Participated in front-end development using Angular JS, JavaScript, jQuery, HTML, CSS and bootstrap. Experience with Requests, NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib, and Pandas python libraries during development  ? Developed python scripting to automate parameter upload into Oracle Database from Excel. Used python to generate reports for management, showing the quality of data migration and migration data load success percentage overtime, to understand the area of improvement.  ? Have Knowledge of multi-threading, multi-processing, asynchronous, GIL in python. Have experience in JWT based authentication for RESTFUL API.  ? Experience of working with relational databases like Oracle, SQLite, PostgreSQL, MySQL, DB2 and non-relational databases like MongoDB.  ? Help the bank and functional product consultant on the gap, fitment and changes. All the existing REST API are built in Flask, for future project, where the number of users is more, we are implementing in Django REST API framework, recently done POC for feasibility.  ? Worked on Django in built library Testcase library for continuous integration and also Django ORM (object relational mapper)  ? Used bulk collections for better performance and easy retrieval of data, by reducing context switching between SQL and PL/SQL engines.  ? Created database objects like tables, views, procedures, functions, dynamic SQL and packages using PL/SQL developer.  ? Developed PL/SQL procedure to merge tables, when we are integrating commercial loans with consumer loans. Skilled in Object-Oriented Design and Programming using Python. Education Bachelor's Skills Amazon web services, Hadoop, Bootstrap, Reactjs, Json, MYSQL, Javascript, CSS, Jquery, Git, PHP, HTML 5 Additional Information SKILLS    • Python  • Scala  • SQL  • PL/SQL  • SAS  • PEP8  • PIP  • Spark  • Requests  • Scrapy  • SQLAlchemy  • BeautifulSoup  • NumPy  • SciPy  • matplotlib  • EmberJS  • ReactJS  • Bootstrap  • Big Data  • Hadoop technologies  • Linux  • Unix  • AJAX  • JQuery  • JSON  • XML  • XSLT  • LDAP  • OAuth  • SOAP  • REST  • Selenium  • Splinter  • PyChecker  • Komodo  • PyCharm  • PyScripter  • PyShield  • Spyder  • Jupyter  • MySQL  • Teradata  • SQL Server  • InfluxDB  • MongoDB  • IntelliJ  • Kafka  • Swagger  • OpenStack  • Amazon Web Services (AWS)  • NumPy  • PyDev  • Data pipelines