Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Progressive Insurance Boston, MA • Over 5+ years of professional experience as a Python developer with broad range of expertise in web based applications.  • Experience with full software development life-cycle, architecting scalable platforms, objects oriented programming, database design and agile methodologies.  • Expertise in Backend Web Technologies using Python, Django, Flask, Java and REST API.  • Experience with Design, code, and debug operations, reporting, data analysis and web applications utilizing Python.  • Experienced with Python frameworks like Webapp2 and, Flask.  • Expert knowledge of and experience in Object oriented Design and Programming concepts.  • Good Knowledge of Python and Python Web Framework Django.  • Excellent hands on experience in developing web based applications using Django and Flask which  involves MVC Architecture.  • Very strong experience writing API's/ and Web Services in PHP and in Python.  • Experienced in working on Application Servers like WebSphere, WebLogic, Tomcat, Web Servers like Apache server, NGINX and Integrated Development Environments like PyCharm, Eclipse, MyEclipse, JDeveloper and RAD.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, QT, C++, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Good Experience in HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Angular.JS, Bootstrap, JQUERY, JSON and AJAX to deliver cutting-edge user interfaces and components.  • Familiarity with developing for and deploying to cloud-based environments, specifically AWS and EC2.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Sound Knowledge on RDBMS concepts and extensively worked with Oracle, SQL Server 2008, MYSQL.  • Expertise in working with different databases like Oracle, MySQL, PostgreSQL and Good knowledge in using NoSQL database MongoDB.  • Extensive experience in implementation of the version control software SVN and GIT.  • Excellent working knowledge in UNIX and Linux shell environments using command line utilities.  • Have the ability to understand complex systems and be in command of the details to provide solutions.  • Ability to learn and adapt quickly to the emerging new technologies and paradigms.  • Excellent communication, interpersonal and analytical skills and a highly motivated team player with the ability to work independently. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Progressive Insurance - Cleveland, OH August 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web-based solution.  • Generated Python Django Forms to Record data of users.  • Rewrite existing Java application in Python module to deliver certain format of data.  • Developed Python batch processors to consume and produce various feeds.  • Worked on developing internal testing tools which were written in Python. Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users.  • Wrote Python routines to log into the websites and fetch data for selected options.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface Used PyQuery for selecting particular DOM elements when parsing HTML.  • Used Wireshark, live http headers, and Fiddler2 debugging proxy to debug the Flash object and help the developer create a functional component.  • Used Jenkins for continuous integration services and used Pandas library for statistical Analysis.  • Used the Django Framework to develop the application and Build all database mapping classes using Django models.  • Involved in developing web applications and implementing Model View Control (MVC) architecture using server-side applications like Django.  • Worked with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services (AWS).  • Involved in AJAX driven application by invoking web services/API and parsing the JSON response.  • Developed internal auxiliary web apps using Python Django framework with Angular.js and CSS/HTML framework.  • Set up rules and policies with a Node.js/ Python back end.  • Developed complex web, middleware, and back end systems in Python, SQL and Perl for Linux and Windows.  • Created a Git repository and added the project to GitHub.  • Utilize PyUnit, the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications.  • Utilized Agile process and JIRA issue management to track sprint cycles.  • Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.    Environment: Python, Django, PyUnit, PyQuery, DOM, HTML, CSS, Angular.js, Wireshark, Ajax, JSON, Git, SQL, Jira, Agile, LINUX and Windows. Python Developer SunTrust Bank - Atlanta, GA June 2017 to July 2018 Responsibilities:  • Built database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web-based solution  • Use Python unit and functional testing modules such as unit test, unittest2, mock, and custom frameworks in-line with Agile Software Development methodologies.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Utilized PyQt to provide GUI for the user to create, modify and view reports based on client data.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Rewrite existing Java application in Python module to deliver certain format of data.  • Developed dynamic web pages using Python Django Frameworks.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Using Django_evolution and manual SQL modifications was able to modify Django models while retaining all data, while site was in production mode.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python.  • Used Python plotly, numpy library to visualize data point using interactive charts. Designed data visualization to present current impact and growth.  • Involved in development of Python based Web Services using REST for sending and getting data from the external interface in the JSON format and to track sales and perform sales analysis using Django and PostgreSQL.  • Developed UI using CSS, HTML, JavaScript, Angular.JS, JQuery and JSON.  • Used Test Driven Approach for developing the application and implemented the unit tests using Python Unit Test framework called PyUnit.  • Responsible for search engine optimization to improve the visibility of the website.  • Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  • Performed testing using Django's Test Module.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code  • Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.    Environment: Python, Django, PyQt, Java, MySQL, Linux, HTML, XHTML, PyUnit, Numpy, Angular.js, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, Rest, Apache Web Server, HTML, JSON Numpy and Windows. Python Developer TJX - Framingham, MA September 2016 to May 2017 Responsibilities:  • Involved in all aspects of the development process from product inception to scaling in production.  • Developed custom reports using HTML, Python and MySQL.  • Developed monitoring and notification tools using Python.  • Implemented REST API's in Python using micro-framework like Django with SQL Alchemy in the backend for management of data center resources on which OpenStack would be deployed.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to created user-friendly website interface  • Used Pandas Data frame for analyzing data, data structures, manage large data files and converting Large CSV files to Parquet files.  • Used Python based GUI components for the front-end functionality such as selection criteria.  • Written queries in MySQL and Native SQL.  • Created PyUnit test cases for unit testing.  • Involved in Developing a Restful service using Python Django framework.  • Worked with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services (AWS).  • Added the navigations and paginations and filtering columns and adding and removing the desired columns for view.  • Used GitHub for version control.  • Implemented admin sites to manage database information with Django and MySQL.  • Used PyQuery for selecting particular DOM elements when parsing HTML.  • Worked in an agile development environment.    Environment: Python, Django, Java, MySQL, Linux, HTML, XHTML, CSS, PyUnit, PyQuery, DOM, JSON and Windows. Python Developer Inteq Software Private Limited June 2014 to August 2016 Responsibilities:  • Designed, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Rewrite existing Java application in Python module to deliver certain format of data  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python.  • Responsible for search engine optimization to improve the visibility of the website.  • Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  • Performed testing using Django's Test Module.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  • Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.    Environment: Python, Django, Java, MySQL, Linux, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, Apache Web Server. Skills DJANGO, Git, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, PYTHON, FLASK, Subversion, SVN, XML, AJAX, DHTML, WEBLOGIC, WEBSPHERE, SQL SERVER, MYSQL, ORACLE, SQL, APACHE, LINUX, LINUX/UNIX