Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer Austin, TX • Around 7 years of experience as a Python Developer, proficient coder in multiple languages and environments including Python, REST API, AWS, C, C++ and SQL.  • Develop ETL packages using SSIS to insert datasets to SQL server and generate project reports using SSRS and SQL.  • Worked on various applications using python integrated IDE Eclipse, PyCharm, NetBeans.  • Good experience in developing web applications and implementing Model View Control (MVC) architecture using server-side applications like Django, Flask and Pyramid.  • Expertise in working with different databases like Microsoft SQL Server, Oracle, MySQL, PostgreSQL and Good knowledge in using NoSQL databases MongoDB  • Hands on experience working in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python/PHP) Architecture.  • worked on automating and configuring the Network devices with python.  • Worked on different python modules like Netmiko, Paramiko, Napalm, Telnet.  • Experience in writing ansible playbooks for different CISCO devices like Nexus and Arista.  • Worked in the AWS Environment, used AWS tools like RDS, Cloud watch, EC2, Elastic load Balancer, Route53, KMS, SNS, S3, Lambda Functions, IAM.  • Good experience in handling errors/exceptions and debugging the issues in large scale applications.  • Worked in developing the Active Directory AD Environment in Windows system, uses in the process of developing the applications, systems using the LDAP protocol.  • Performed code reviews and implemented best Pythonic programming practices  • Experience in writing test scripts, test cases, test specifications and test coverage.  • Experience in Design, Development, Testing, Automation, Enhancement and Maintenance of Applications and Tools.  • Experience with Version Control, ideally SVN, CVS and GIT.  • Experience in design, development, testing, automation, Enhancement and maintenance of applications and tools.  • Mastering Web Application Development using html, JavaScript.  • Have flexibility and ability to learn and use new technologies and to work in team environment as wells as independently to get things done. Work Experience Python Developer LPL Financial LLC - San Diego, CA September 2017 to January 2019 Responsibilities:  • Developed web applications and RESTful web services and APIs using Python, Django and PHP.  • Experience with Django a high-level Python Web framework.  • Automated JIRA processes using Python and hash scripts.  • Responsible for setting up Python REST API framework using Django.  • Developing Python Framework using Django to perform scan software unit monitoring.  • Built a RESTful API to save and retrieve geolocations using a remote server in Java using Spring, MongoDB.  • Responsible in using the AWS tools like RDS, Cloud watch, EC2, Elastic load Balancer, Route53, KMS, SNS, S3, Lambda Functions, IAM.  • Responsible in used various python tools and modules, to handle network devices more easily without writing lot of python code.  • Responsible in automating and configuring the network devices Using python.  • Responsible in establishing the SSH connections to routers and switches, used python Modules like Netmiko, Paramiko, Napalm, Telnet.  • Responsible in leverage Napalam for network automation and used GNS3 for testing purpose for labs.  • Responsible in executing CLI commands automatically, on network devices upon login and emulated several network operating systems in virtualized environment.  • Developed the Active Directory AD in windows platform to call and sharing the information of the users, systems and application, by using LDAP Protocol.  • Developed user interface using JSP, JSTL and Custom Tag Libraries and AJAX to speed the application.  • OOP in PHP to extend or update functionalities. The project uses MySQL as the database.  • Developed HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JSP pages for user interaction and data presentation.  • Creation of REST Webservices for the management of data using Apache CXF (JAX-RS)  • Create webservice component using REST, SOAP, WSDL, XML and XSLT to interact with the middleware  • Worked in RDBMS implementation using, SQL, PL/SQL, DB2, MySQL on Oracle database.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Experience in working with Python ORM Libraries including Django ORM.  • Used GitHub repository for version control.    Environment: Python 2.7 and 3.6, Django 1.8, MongoDB, MySQL, AJAX, SOAP, REST, jQuery, Bootstrap, PyCharm, Active Directory, Apache Spark, PHP, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JSON, UI, XML, Ajax, Shell Script, ORM, RDS, Cloud watch, EC2, Elastic load Balancer, Route53, KMS, SNS, S3, Lambda Functions, IAM, Netmiko, Paramiko, Napalm, Telnet, SSH, GNS3 Python Developer Sun Trust - Atlanta, GA January 2015 to August 2017 Responsibilities:  • Experienced with full software development life-cycle, architecting scalable platforms, object-oriented programming, database design and agile methodologies  • Built Web application using Python, Django, Flask, JavaScript, AJAX, HTML and template languages.  • Used Apache to deploy production site.  • Strong experience using Web Services and API's in python.  • Experience in using Design Patterns such as MVC and frameworks such as Django, Flask.  • Proficient in SQL databases MySQL, PostgreSQL, Oracle and MongoDB.  • Good knowledge in maintaining various version controls systems such as GIT, SVN, CVN and Source Tree.  • Experience in Application Development and Object-Oriented Programming Analysis and Design (OOAD).  • Experience object-oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, C++ and java.  • Experienced in working with various Python Integrated Development Environments like IDLE, PyCharm, Atom, Eclipse and Sublime Text.  • Involved in Unit testing and Integration testing of the code using PyTest.  • Experience in working with Python ORM Libraries including Django ORM.  • Used GitHub repository for version control.  • Hands-on experience in writing and reviewing requirements, architecture documents, test plans, design and maintaining documents, quality analysis and helping with the software release process.    Environment: MySQL, MongoDB, GIT, API's, OOP, PyCharm, PyTest, IDLE, OOAD, Django, Flask, JavaScript, AJAX, HTML, SVN, GitHub, Git, Django ORM, Atom, Eclipse, PostgreSQL, PyTest. Web application Developer CMC Ltd - Hyderabad, Telangana November 2013 to July 2014 Responsibilities:  • Designed and implemented dynamic Web content and Web-server application using MS-SQL, HTML, XML, AJAX, Web services.  • Created and maintained SQL databases at remote locations, data was shared by these databases to run Phone Sales, Production, Shipping, Inventory, and an E-Commerce Web site.  • Developed front-end via HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery.  • Managed Backups, Queries, Stored Procedures, and Disaster Recovery for SQL databases  • Developed real-time; credit card processing, gift card processing.  • Integrated VB Script, AJAX, Java Script, and module for application touch screen, bar code scanner, credit card swipe, receipt printer and cash drawer.  • Identified, recommended, and prioritized new Web features and applications in conjunction with business leaders and department managers.  • Co-ordinated development decisions with client, team, and manager.  • Created different reports for management, marketing and development department needs.  Environment: MS-SQL, HTML, CSS, XML, AJAX, Web services, JavaScript, JQuery, VB Script. Junior Python Developer Egrove Systems - Chennai, Tamil Nadu June 2012 to October 2013 Responsibilities:  • Analysis and design of application.  • Django framework that was used in the Developing web applications to implement the model view control architecture.  • Develops processing, recovery, archiving procedures for systems. provides production procedure for programs.  • Responsible in develops relationships with financial development teams to resolve the pricing related issues.  • Responsible for investigating new technologies, tools and processes and make recommendations for adoption.  • Exposer on implementing authentications using ORM libraries.  • Used SQL alchemy as ORM for writing the ORM queries.  • Responsible in creating a database and its validations and authorization with MySQL.  • Works directly with the project owners across the business and plan, manage and execute key projects.  • Responsible in Working with various Python integrated development environments like PyCharm, Idle, and Jupyter Notebook.  Environment: Pycharm, Idle, Jupyter Notebook, MySql, Spyder 2.7 & 3.6, MongoDB, GitHub, Git, XML, JSON, Angular, JQuery. Education Master's Skills C++, Embedded systems, Git, Html, Javascript, Json, Oop, Python, Matplotlib, Numpy, Pandas, Scripting, Svn, Xml, Pl/sql, Sql, Css, Tomcat, Web sphere, Jira Additional Information Technical Skills:    Operating systems Windows, Linux, Unix  Programming Languages Python 2.7/3.3/3.6, C, C++  Scripting Languages CSS, JavaScript, Shell Scripting  Servers RESTful Web Service, Apache Tomcat, IBM Web Sphere  Python Libraries NumPy, Pandas data frame, Beautiful Soup, Matplotlib  Tools PyCharm, PL/SQL Developer, FileZilla, Apache Tomcat  Version Control Tools GitHub, SVN  Tracking Tools JIRA, Git, VersionOne  Markup languages HTML, XML, JSON  Methodologies Agile Scrum, UML, OOP  Environment Embedded Systems