Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Cisco Charlotte, NC ? Professional qualified Python developer with over 7+ years of experience in python including Machine Learning, Data Mining and Statistical Analysis.  ? Involved in the entire python project life cycle and actively involved in all the phases including data extraction, data cleaning, statistical modelling and data visualization with large data sets of structured and unstructured data.  ? In depth knowledge of different web frameworks Django, Pyramid.  ? Good knowledge in GUI frameworks - Tkinter, WxPython, PyQt.  ? Experienced with machine learning algorithm such as logistic regression, random forest, Xgboost, KNN, SVM, neural network, linear regression, lasso regression and k-means.  ? Implemented Bagging and Boosting to enhance the model performance.  ? Strong skills in statistical methodologies such as A/B test, experiment design, hypothesis test, ANOVA.  ? Extensively worked on Python 3.5/2.7 (Numpy, Pandas, Matplotlib, NLTK and Scikit-learn)  ? Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, Flask, XML, JSON, BSON, CSS, HTML, DHTML,XHTML, JavaScript and JQuery, RESTful, MVT architecture ,AJAX.  ? Experience in implementing data analysis with various analytic tools, such as Anaconda 4.0Jupyter Notebook 4.X, R 3.0 (ggplot2, Caret, dplyr) and Excel.  ? Solid ability to write and optimize diverse SQL queries, working knowledge of RDBMS like SQLServer2008, NoSQL databases like MongoDB3.2  ? Strong experience in Bigdata technologies like Spark 1.6, Spark sql, pySpark, Hadoop 2.X, HDFS, Hive 1.X  ? Experience in visualization tools like, Tableau9.X, 10.X for creating dashboards.  ? Excellent understanding Agile and Scrum development methodology.  ? Used the version control tools like Git 2.X  ? Passionate about gleaning insightful information from massive data assets and developing a culture of sound, data-driven decision making.  ? Ability to maintain a fun, casual, professional and productive team atmosphere.  ? Experienced the full software life cycle in SDLC, Agile and Scrum methodologies.  ? Skilled in Advanced Regression Modelling, Correlation, Multivariate Analysis, Model Building, Business Intelligence tools and application of Statistical Concepts.  ? Developed predictive models using Decision Tree, Random Forest, Naïve Bayes, Logistic Regression, Cluster Analysis, and Neural Networks.  ? Experienced in Machine Learning and Statistical Analysis with Python Scikit-Learn.  ? Experienced in Python to manipulate data for data loading and extraction and worked with python libraries like Matplotlib, Numpy, Scipy and Pandas for data analysis.  ? Worked with complex applications such as R, SAS, Matlab and SPSS to develop neural network, cluster analysis.  ? Expertise in transforming business requirements into analytical models, designing algorithms, building models, developing data mining and reporting solutions that scales across massive volume of structured and unstructured data.  ? Worked with NoSQL Database including Hbase, Cassandra and Mongo DB.  ? Experienced in Big Data with Hadoop, HDFS, Map Reduce, and Spark.  ? Experienced in Data Integration Validation and Data Quality controls for ETL process and Data Warehousing using MS Visual Studio SSIS, SSAS, SSRS.  ? Proficient in Tableau and R-Shiny data visualization tools to analyze and obtain insights into large datasets, create visually powerful and actionable interactive reports and dashboards.  ? Automated recurring reports using SQL and Python and visualized them on BI platform like Tableau.  ? Worked in development environment like Git and VM.  ? Excellent communication skills. Successfully working in fast-paced multitasking environment both independently and in collaborative team, a self-motivated enthusiastic learner. Work Experience Python Developer Cisco - Charlotte, NC October 2018 to Present Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Extensively involved in all phases of data acquisition, data collection, data cleaning, model development, model validation and visualization to deliver python solutions.  ? Built machine learning models to identify whether a user is legitimate using real-time data analysis and prevent fraudulent transactions using the history of customer transactions with supervised learning.  ? Extracted data from SQL Server Database, copied into HDFS File system and used Hadoop tools such as Hive and Pig Latin to retrieve the data required for building models.  ? Performed data cleaning including transforming variables and dealing with missing value and ensured data quality, consistency, integrity using Pandas, NumPy.  ? Developed web based application using Django and flask framework with python concepts.  ? Generated Python Django forms to maintain the record of online users.  ? Tackled highly imbalanced Fraud dataset using sampling techniques like under sampling and oversampling with SMOTE (Synthetic Minority Over-Sampling Technique) using Python Scikit-learn.  ? Utilized PCA, t-SNE and other feature engineering techniques to reduce the high dimensional data, applied feature scaling, handled categorical attributes using one hot encoder of scikit-learn library.  ? Developed various machine learning models such as Logistic regression, KNN, and Gradient Boosting with Pandas, NumPy, Seaborn, Matplotlib, Scikit-learn in Python.  ? Experience in Installing Jenkins/Plugins for GIT Repository, Setup SCM Polling for Immediate Build with Maven and Maven Repository and Deployment of apps using custom modules through Puppet as a CI/CD Process.  ? Worked on Amazon Web Services (AWS) cloud services to do machine learning on big data.  Developed Spark Python modules for machine learning & predictive analytics in Hadoop.  ? Implemented a Python-based distributed random forest via PySpark and MLlib.  ? Used cross-validation to test the model with different batches of data to find the best parameters for the model and optimized, which eventually boosted the performance.  ? Experimented with Ensemble methods to increase the accuracy of the training model with different Bagging and Boosting methods and deployed the model on AWS.  ? Created and maintained reports to display the status and performance of deployed model and algorithm with Tableau.    Technology Stack: Machine Learning, AWS, AWS Redshift, Python (Scikit-learn, SciPy, NumPy, Django Pandas, Matplotlib, Seaborn), SQL Server, Hadoop, HDFS, Hive, Pig Latin, Apache Spark/PySpark/MLlib, GitHub, Linux, Tableau. Python developer Florida Blue - Jacksonville, FL September 2017 to September 2018 Roles & Responsibilities:    ? Provided Configuration Management and Build support for more than 5 different applications, built and deployed to the production and lower environments.  ? Evaluated the performance of Various Classification and Regression algorithms using R language to predict the future power.  ? Worked with several R packages including knitr, dplyr, SparkR, CausalInfer, spacetime.  ? Involved in Detecting Patterns with Unsupervised Learning like K-Means Clustering.  ? Implemented end-to-end systems for Data Analytics, Data Automation and integrated with custom visualization tools using R, Mahout, Hadoop and MongoDB.  ? AWS Import/Export accelerates moving large amounts of data into and out of AWS using portable storage devices for transport.  ? Implemented business logic using Python/Django and flask with jinja templating system.  ? Gathering all the data that is required from multiple data sources and creating datasets that will be used in analysis.  ? Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to created user-friendly website interface.  ? Implemented the frontend and backend using, JavaScript, Python Framework, and Neo4j  ? Performed Exploratory Data Analysis and Data Visualizations using R, and Tableau.  ? Perform a proper EDA, Univariate and bi-variate analysis to understand the intrinsic effect/combined effects.  ? Worked with Data governance, Data quality, data lineage, Data architect to design various models and processes.  ? Independently coded new programs and designed Tables to load and test the program effectively for the given POC's using with Big Data/Hadoop.  ? Designed data models and data flow diagrams using Erwin and MS Visio.  ? Hands on standard of SCM tools (Git), CI/CD (Jenkins/Maven) process.  ? Developed triggers, stored procedures, functions and packages using cursors and ref cursor concepts associated with the project using Pl/SQL  ? Created various types of data visualizations using R, python and Tableau.  ? Used Python, R, SQL to create Statistical algorithms involving Multivariate Regression, Linear Regression, Logistic Regression, PCA, Random forest models, Decision trees, Support Vector Machine for estimating the risks of welfare dependency.  ? Identified and targeted welfare high-risk groups with Machine learning algorithms.  ? Conducted campaigns and run real-time trials to determine what works fast and track the impact of different initiatives.  ? Developed Tableau visualizations and dashboards using Tableau Desktop.  ? Used Graphical Entity-Relationship Diagramming to create new database design via easy to use, graphical interface.  ? Clean and analyze data by using Hive and Pig on AWS Hadoop cluster  ? Created multiple custom SQL queries in Teradata SQL Workbench to prepare the right data sets for Tableau dashboards  ? Perform analyses such as regression analysis, logistic regression, discriminant analysis, cluster analysis using SAS programming.  ? Used Meta data tool for importing metadata from repository, new job categories and creating new data elements.  ? Scheduled the task for weekly updates and running the model in workflow. Automated the entire process flow in generating the analysis and reports.    Technology Stack: Python, Django Erwin 8, AWS, AWS EC2, AWS Redshift Teradata 13, SQL Server 2008, Oracle 9i, SQL*Loader, PL/SQL, ODS, OLAP, OLTP, SSAS, Informatica Power Center 8.1. Python Developer NSG India Pvt Ltd - Hyderabad, Telangana March 2016 to April 2017 Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Analyzed the data using Python and Spark; performed feature engineering to clean the data for further analysis.  ? Implemented exploratory analysis on complex data sets using SQL.  ? Performed correlation analysis to narrow down and choose the best attributes for building machine learning model.  ? Assisted in building a predictive model in Python using classification techniques such as decision trees to help identify which applicants would sign their loan application improving their sales by 31%.  ? Created customized reports in tableau for data visualization.  ? Worked closely with stakeholders and subject matter experts to elicit and gather business requirements.  ? Worked directly with the Dev team to ensure product backlog was understood to the level needed and to keep sprint on track.  ? Log monitoring and generating visual representations of logs using ELK stack. Implement CI/CD tools Upgrade, Backup, Restore, DNS, LDAP and SSL setup.  ? Facilitated Agile team ceremonies including Daily Standup, Backlog Grooming, Sprint Review, Sprint Planning etc.  ? Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  ? Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  ? Used Pandas, Numpy, seaborn, SciPy, Matplotlib in Python for developing various machine learning algorithms and utilized machine learning algorithms such as linear regression, multivariate regression for dataanalysis.  ? Responsible for data extraction and transformation (ETL) from AWS DynamoDB with HIVE, Impala and AWS EMR to conduct the analysis from billions of customer historical transaction records.  ? Assisted python team to gather the Requirements, Develop Process Model and detailed Business Policies and modified the business requirement document.  ? Credibly challenge remediation data analytics to ensure reasonable, complete, accurate, and consistent requirements, strategies, data logic, and implementation.  ? Create business intelligence reports using Tableau as needed.  ? Analysis of detailed logical flow chart to object-oriented python language.  Bug fixing, feature adding, and code optimizations.  ? Created database using Postgre SQL, wrote several queries to extract data from database.  ? Wrote scripts in Python for extracting data from HTML file.  ? Tracked Velocity, Capacity, Burn Down Charts, and other metrics during iterations.  ? Using Python, I have automated a process to extract data and various document types from a website, save the documents to specified file path, and upload documents into an excel template.    Technology Stack: Python, Django, AWS Redshift, SQL/Server, Oracle, MS-Office, Teradata, Informatica, ER Studio, XML, Business Objects, HDFS, Teradata 14.1, JSON, HADOOP (HDFS), Python, Map Reduce, PIG, Spark, R Studio MAHOUT, JAVA, HIVE, AWS. Python Developer Hyderabad, Telangana January 2014 to January 2016 Roles & Responsibilities:    ? Involved in Design, Development and Support phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC)  ? Performed data ETL by collecting, exporting, merging and massaging data from multiple sources and platforms including SSIS (SQL Server Integration Services) in SQL Server.  ? Used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  ? Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users.  ? Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation.  ? Worked with cross-functional teams (including data engineer team) to extract data and rapidly execute from MongoDB through MongDB connector for Hadoop.  ? Rewrite existing Python/Django module to deliver certain format of data.  ? Used Django and flask Database API to access database objects.  ? Performed data cleaning and feature selection using MLlib package in PySpark.  ? Performed partitional clustering into 100 by k-means clustering using Scikit-learn package in Python where similar hotels for a search are grouped together.  ? Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django including Tastypie Web Framework using Git.  ? Created Unit test and regression test framework for working and new code.  ? Used Python to perform ANOVA test to analyze the differences among hotel clusters.  ? Implemented application of various machine learning algorithms and statistical modeling like Decision Tree, Naive Bayes, Logistic Regression and Linear Regression using Python to determine the accuracy rate of each model.  ? Determined the most accurately prediction model based on the accuracy rate.  ? Used text-mining process of reviews to determine customers' concentrations.  ? Delivered analysis support to hotel recommendation and providing an online A/B test.  ? Designed Tableau bar graphs, scattered plots, and geographical maps to create detailed level summary reports and dashboards.  ? Developed hybrid model to improve the accuracy rate.  ? Delivered the results to operation team for better decisions and feedbacks.  ? Worked in PL/SQL Programming (Stored procedures, Triggers, Packages) using Oracle (SQL, PL/SQL), SQL Server2008 and UNIX shell scripting to perform job scheduling.    Technology Stack: Python 2.7, Django 1.6, HTML5, CSS, XML, MySQL, MongoDB, JavaScript, Angular JS, JQuery, CSS Bootstrap, JavaScript, Eclipse, Git, GitHub Linux, Redis, Shell Scripting. Data Analyst Gramener - Hyderabad, Telangana July 2012 to October 2013 Roles & Responsibilities:    ? Worked with project team representatives to ensure that logical and physical ER/Studio data models were developed in line with corporate standards and guidelines.  ? Involved in defining the source to target data mappings, business rules, data definitions.  ? Worked with BTEQ to submit SQL statements, import and export data, and generate reports in Teradata.  ? Responsible for defining the key identifiers for each mapping/interface.  ? Responsible for defining the functional requirement documents for each source to target interface.  ? Document, clarify, and communicate requests for change requests with the requestor and coordinate with the development and testing team.  ? Work with users to identify the most appropriate source of record and profile the data required for sales and service.  ? Used python flask framework to develop Restful API's service.  ? Document the complete process flow to describe program development, logic, testing, and implementation, application integration, coding.  ? Involved in defining the business/transformation rules applied for sales and service data.  ? Define the list codes and code conversions between the source systems and the data mart.  ? Worked with internal architects and, assisting in the development of current and target state data architectures.  ? Coordinate with the business users in providing appropriate, effective and efficient way to design the new reporting needs based on the user with the existing functionality.  ? Remain knowledgeable in all areas of business operations in order to identify systems needs and requirements.    Technology Stack: Python, Django, Erwin r7.0, SQL Server 2000/2005, Windows XP/NT/2000, Oracle 8i/9i, MS-DTS, UML, UAT, SQL Loader, OOD, OLTP, PL/SQL, MS Visio, Informatica. Skills Ms visual studio, Visual studio, Amazon web services, C/c++, C++, Django, Hadoop, Html, Jenkins, Json, Perl, Python, Flask, Matplotlib, Numpy, Pandas, Scripting, Software development, Visio, Xml Additional Information Skills:    DBMS SQLServer2008, NoSQL, MongoDB3.2  Programming Languages. C/C++, SQL, Java, Perl, Hadoop, Oracle and Python, ML  Scripts. Html, XML, shell scripting, Advanced PL/SQL, SQL, IDE's Splunk, Eclipse/Net Beans, SQL Developer, IntelliJ  Operating systems Windows XP/NT/2000, Red Hat, Ubuntu, Debian, Fedora, CentOS, Solaris, Mac OS  Reporting Visualization, MS Visual Studio SSIS, SSAS, SSRS.  Python Framework Django Flask, Pyramid, web2py  Software Development Lifecycle Agile Methodology, Scrum framework  Analytics Tools JMP PRO, SAS, Tableau, UCI NET, NodeXL, MVC3  Python Libraries Pandas, NumPy, urlilib, matplotlib, UnitTest, JSON, CSV, XML, XLS  Cloud Microsoft Azure, Amazon Web Services, PCF, OpenStack  Continuous Integration Tools Jenkins, Hudson, AnthillPro, BuildForge, uBuild,TeamCity  Others Microsoft Office, Microsoft Visio, Microsoft Visual Studio2008