Senior Python Developer AWS Senior <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> AWS Senior Python Developer AWS - T-Mobile • 6+ years' experience as full stack AWS python developer, capable of designing and developing cloud-based applications as per the requirements of the clients, in the required time Work Experience Senior Python Developer AWS T-Mobile - Bothell, WA August 2017 to Present • Design and Develop cloud AWS API gateway and lambda functions for developing Rest API using python  • Developed web application using flask framework  • Developed Block chain logging functionality by consuming sawtooth rest api's  • Developed python classes, methods and database interactions using standard design patterns  • Developed Object relational mappings for interacting with MYSQL Database  • Design and develop APIs that access AWS services or other web services, as well as data stored in the Cloud AWS NOSQL Database.  • Determine system performance standards by performance tuning and finding issues from server logs using AWS cloud, cloud watch and Elastic search services  • Monitor application performance for ensuring better operations by using CloudWatch AWS services which provides monitoring, alarming and logging for AWS cloud resources and the applications run on AWS.  • Managing Amazon Elasticsearch Services to makes it easy to deploy, operate, and scale Elasticsearch for log analytics, full text search, application monitoring.  • Designing and Developing Authorization and Authentication for API's using JavaScript (node JS) scripts for authenticating the clients by providing the credentials and authorizing them using bear tokens generated from API's  • Design and Develop Azure OpenID connection and OAuth 2.0 for authentication and authorization using JavaScript (node JS) and involving in Configuring the applications to use azure active directory by using open id connection for authenticating the application users and Authorizing the access token of users to access the application resources  • Documenting technical specifications or requirements for server less applications and other AWS Service management related projects  • Analyze project data to determine specifications or requirements and Collaborate with others to determine design specifications or details.  • Managing Docker and Git Application server software's for infrastructure setup for code development  • Develop testing routines or procedures using Oracle Java for Cloud AWS lambda functions for testing the code deployed in AWS Lambda and API gateway for setting an automation testing environment  • Designing, Developing and Accessing database performance for amazon DynamoDB NoSQL to provide a fast and flexible NoSQL database service for the API, s that need consistent, single-digit millisecond latency at any scale.  • Designing and developing Cloud AWS Serverless Application using Angular Js  • Provide technical support for software maintenance by working with CSR and network engineering team to provide applications a Doman management using AWS Cloud Route 53 service to maintain both private and public zones which enables applications to create records for their routing.  • Used postman to test the rest API  • Used Jenkins build tool for continuous integration and deployment  • Developed AWS DNS management tool using python in AWS environment  • Developed unit tests and integration tests using python AWS Python Developer Ennovar - Wichita, KS March 2016 to May 2017 Responsibilities:  • Involved in developing rest API for developing organization access management portal  • Involved in UI Development with angular, HTML, CSS, ajax  • developed email service by using smtp python library  • Involved in developing AWS automation tool using AWS SDK Boto3  • Involved in developing serverless rest api's and deployments in AWS  • Experience in writing code in lambda integrated with API gateway  • Used flask framework for developing web platform for managing corporate users, groups and their access  • Creating servers, AMIs, storage blocks in S3, taking snapshots, VPCs, subnets, load balancing and auto-scaling in Assigning and implementing fully automated server build, management, monitoring and deployment solutions spanning multiple platforms, tools and technologies including Jenkins, Amazon EC2 and packaging, deployment and testing.  • Installation and configuration of Git, merging code from develop branch to master branch and make it ready for deployment.  • Pushing Code from Git to make available for release through automation script using Jenkins.  • Knowledge on GIT and Jenkins Continuous Integration of Server-Installation, Configuration, Design and Administration, and integrating these tools with other systems.  • Exclusively worked on windows & Linux AMI for hardening.  • Handled cloud administration tools and management frameworks.  • Configured Cloud watch alerts.  • Deployed and monitored salable infrastructure on Amazon web services (AWS) & configuration management  • Launching and configuring of Amazon EC2 (AWS) Cloud Servers using AMI's (Linux/Ubuntu) and configuring the servers for specified applications using Jenkins  • Setup and launch Amazon Linux and Windows ec2 instances, network interface with Elastic IP's. Python Developer Tata Consultancy Services - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2012 to January 2016 India  • Involved in each phase of Software Development life cycle.  • Actively involved in mock screens development and project start-up phase.  • Efficiently managed the tasks and working and delivering features in a fast-paced scrum environment  • Involved in Agile development following SCRUM process and daily stand-up meetings  • Involved in developing front end in angular JS  • Developing and consuming RESTful APIs using python.  • Used MySQL database for storing data in backend  • Coordinating with clients and closing production issues relating to software development  • Developed serverless REST API in AWS using lambda and API gateway services in python  • Built Web application using Python, Flask, JavaScript, AJAX, HTML and template Languages  • Experience in using Design Patterns such as MVC and frameworks such as Flask  • Used the Model View controller (MVC) framework to build modular and maintainable applications  • Building reusable code and libraries for future use.  • Build all database mapping classes using flask models with the help of ORM  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Maintained and improved the security level of data.  • Responsible for security standard implementation and data protection.  • Utilized PyUnit, the Python unit test framework for testing the functionality of the application.  • Involved in front-end designing using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and Bootstrap.  • Operated all the user side validation using JavaScript and AJAX  • Configured and managing security groups and VPC.  • Configured and managing ELBs.  • Configured and managing S3 storage.  • Created AMI images of the critical ec2 instance as backup using GUI.  • Created RDS database in AWS. Education Masters in Computer Science Wichita State University - Wichita, KS B.S. in Computer Science MVGR College of Engineering, Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University - Kakinada, Andhra Pradesh Skills API, DOCKER, Git, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, JENKINS, OBJECT ORIENTED, OBJECT ORIENTED PROGRAMMING, OOP, PYTHON, REQUIREMENT ANALYSIS, SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT, Subversion, MYSQL, NOSQL, AUTHENTICATION, CSS, REST, EC2, JIRA Additional Information SKILLS    • Experienced with AWS services Lambda, Route53, Cloud Watch, API Gateway, S3, Dynamo dB, AWS Secret manager, EC2 and IAM  • Experience in full life-cycle development of software's using Object Oriented Programming/ methodologies (OOPs).  • Proficiency with NOSQL databases such as DYNAMO DB environment  • Experience in front end development using angular JS  • Experience in all phases of SDLC like Requirement Analysis, Implementation and Maintenance, and extensive experience with Agile and SCRUM.  • Experience in AWS boto3 SDK  • Experience in web frameworks flask  • Good Experience in implementing Authentication and authorization mechanism for securing rest API  • Experience in developing AWS serverless applications  • Good Knowledge in Server-side JavaScript's using NodeJS  • Experience in working with third-party APIs  • Experience in software development on AWS Lambda, API Gateway and S3 Bucket  • Experience handling data/APIs from client-side communication to back-end collection, manipulation, and analyzation  • Experience with Object Oriented Programming (OOP) concepts using Python  • Experience in REST API Development  • Experience in developing unit and integration tests  • Experience in Jenkins and Docker for deployments  • Experience in microservices  • Experience in working closely with QA team in fixing the reported bugs/defects and checking cross platform Compatibility.  • Good experience in process like Agile Scrum methodologies.  • Managing production issues in terms of software deliveries and overnight activates.  • Good initiator, quick learner and excellent team-player with strong personal and group communication skills.    TECHNICAL SKILLS    Programming Languages Java, JavaScript, Python  Tools MS Office, Jira, Rally  Other Tools POSTMAN  Web Technologies HTML 5, CSS, Angular JS, Node js  Methodology SDLC Agile (Scrum)  Cloud AWS, Azure  Application/Web Servers Docker  Databases MySql, NoSQL  Development Tools Eclipse3.2/3.0/2.1.1, sublime text, PyCharm  Version Control Subversion, GIT  DevOps tools Jenkins, Maven  Operating Systems Windows, Unix and Linux