Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Busey Bank Peoria, IL • Experienced professional with 5 years of technical exposure in diverse technologies like Python, Django, Flask, PostgreSQL, Linux, Java, MySQL and AWS.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, GTK, QT, C++, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript.  • Handy experience in developing Web-Applications implementing Model View Control architecture using Django, Flask web application frameworks.  • Hands-on experience in SOAP and RESTful web services.  • Hands-on experience in relational database connections like DB-API connection management and query based access to databases like PostgreSQL and MySQL in Python  • Having working Knowledge of Amazon AWS S3.  • Expert knowledge of and experience in Object oriented Design and Programming concepts.  • Experience with Design, code, and debug operations, reporting, data analysis and web applications utilizing Python.  • Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache.  • Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like Angular JS, HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Familiar with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services.  • Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  • Having experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Experienced in working on Application Servers like WebSphere, WebLogic, Tomcat, Web Servers like Apache server, NGINX and Integrated Development Environments like PyCharm, Eclipse, MyEclipse, JDeveloper and RAD.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Well-versed in ticketing system such as Altassian JIRA.  • Effectively involved in handling releases, managing merges and deployments.  • Hands-on experience in writing and reviewing requirements, architecture documents, test plans, design documents, quality analysis and audits.  • Highly efficient in working in fast paced environment and multiple issues at a time.  • Highly motivated, dedicated, quick learner and have proven ability to build and manage a team and work individually.  • Excellent written and oral communication skills with results-oriented attitude. Work Experience Python Developer Busey Bank - Champaign, IL October 2018 to Present This project is an online banking application consisting of various modules like personal Banking, Loan Locking, Pricing, Withdraw, Extend Load Expiry, Funding, Closing, Mortgages, Re-finance, Investment banking, stocks, bonds, Mutual funds, insurance and portfolio/wealth management. It also generates reports based on clients' loan status like loans missing, collateral documents, loans purchased, loans pending settlement review, loans not cleared for settlement.The personal banking module consists of managing Checking and Savings accounts, balance transfers, bill payments, deposit methods and individual retirement accounts and money transfer. FMS (Funds management system) provides a single source of financial information for the Fund Managers.  Responsibilities:  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Participated in the complete SDLC process.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web based solution.  • Worked on Angular JS framework to develop interactive websites based on client needs.  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Worked on UI using HTML5, CSS3 and Java Scripts.  • Created User Controls and simple animations using Java Script and Python.  • Working in team of developers to build and deploy Django, Linux, AWS.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Developed Python batch processors to consume and produce various feeds.  • Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  • Created PHP/MySQL back-end for data entry from Flash.  • Involved in Developing a Restful API'S service using Python Django framework.  • Used GitHub for version control.  • Developed internal auxiliary web apps using Python Django framework with Angular and Twitter Bootstrap CSS / HTML framework.  • Developed SQL Queries, Stored Procedures, and Triggers Using Oracle, SQL, PL/SQL.  • Wrote a Python module to connect and view the status of an Apache Cassandra instance.  • Maintained version control of Python by using GIT.  • Developed multi-threaded standalone app in Python to view performance.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Performed Version control using GIT.  • Wrote validation scripts in SQL to validate data loading.  • Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  Environment: Python, Django, HTML, AJAX, XHTML, JavaScript, Angular JS, XML, GitHub, Flash, SQLite, MYSQL, SQL, PLSQL, Oracle and Windows. Python Developer OpticsPlanet, Northbook, IL January 2017 to September 2018 This project was an Ecommerce web based application which allowed the customer to get a view of all the products in the store and buy them online. The application mainly dealt with the online payment and billings. It provides a search feature which uses Regular Expression or pattern matching with a user interface called Search box through which consumers can access and view latest and top selling products/offers. It uses Secure Good payment Gateway solution for customer to make a payment.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web based solution.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Implemented web applications in Django frame works following MVC architecture.  • Rewrite existing Java application in Python module to deliver certain format of data.  • Developed all client-side logical implementation part of applications with Angular JS.  • Developed Python batch processors to consume and produce various feeds.  • Created test harness to enable comprehensive testing utilizing Python.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  • Involved in Developing a Restful API'S service using Python Django framework.  • Used python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Created Data tables utilizing PyQt to display customer and policy information and add, delete, update customer records.  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  • Worked with JSON based REST Web services.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code  • Using GIT version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Developed SQL Queries, Stored Procedures, and Triggers Using Oracle, SQL, PL/SQL.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  Environment: Python, Django, PYQT, Java, XML, DOM, JSON, HTML, Angular JS, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, JSON, Rest, GIT, MY SQL, Windows and LINUX. Python Developer Clover Health - Bengaluru, Karnataka July 2014 to December 2016 Project: Physician Healthcare Portal  Physician Healthcare Portal system was developed for physicians to maintain their patients' records. This system collects patient information from several systems into a centralized Patient Information Repository and does the content analysis to map the incoming content from other systems into a standard XML format. Every system will be authenticated before sending the data into a Patient Information Repository.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in the Design, development, test, deploy and maintenance of the website.  • UI was developed using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python.  • Developed internal auxiliary web apps using Python Django framework with CSS / HTML framework.  • Implemented Test Driven Development (TDD) strategy for the project.  • Developed Python batch processors to consume and produce various feeds.  • Created database access layer using JDBC and PL/SQL stored procedures.  • Responsible for search engine optimization to improve the visibility of the website.  • Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  • Use Git for version control.  • Wrote validation scripts in SQL to validate data loading.  • Trained users and did production support.  Environment: Python, Django, MySQL, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, Apache Web Server, Git, Linux.    Project #2:  Client: Estee Lauder  This project was an Ecommerce web based application which allowed the customer to get a view of all the products in the store and buy them online. The application mainly dealt with the online payment and billings. It provides a search feature which uses Regular Expression or pattern matching with a user interface called Search box through which consumers can access and view latest and top selling products/offers. It uses Secure Good payment Gateway solution for customer to make a payment.  Role: Python Developer  Responsibilities:  • Developed custom reports using HTML, Python and MySQL.  • Developed monitoring and notification tools using Python.  • Documented the revised workflow using confluence wiki.  • Created Data tables utilizing PyQt to display customer and policy information and add, delete, update customer records.  • Used Python based GUI components for the front end functionality such as selection criteria.  • Implemented navigation rules for the application and page outcomes, written controllers using annotations.  • Written queries in MySQL and Native SQL.  • Added the navigations and paginations and filtering columns and adding and removing the desired columns for view.  • Worked in an agile development environment.  • Used GitHub for version control.  • Used PyQuery for selecting particular DOM elements when parsing HTML.  Environment: Python, PyQT, PyQuery, MySQL, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, DOM, Ajax, agile, Web Services (SOAP), XML, PL/SQL, and Oracle SQL Developer. Skills Django, Html, Javascript, Json, Python, Flask, Matplotlib, Numpy, Pandas, Xml, Sql server, Mysql, Oracle, Sql, Ajax, Dhtml, Linux, Linux/unix, Unix, Mongodb