Freelancer, Python Developer, Front-end Developer Freelancer, <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span>, Front-end <span class="hl">Developer</span> Chicago, IL Resulted-oriented python developer with 3 years' programming experience, currently enrolled computer science master with a Math centric undergraduate degree, skilled in areas including data analysis and web development. Interested in machine learning and possible optimizations on a distributed platform. Work Experience Freelancer, Python Developer, Front-end Developer August 2015 to Present • Develop and maintain www.thaiarrangement.com built by Flask  • Design developer-friendly APIs to process requests and program scripts to generate and refresh access token for each device.  • Build a poll system www.leaderpoll.com features multiple images editing (zooming and cropping) and uploading to amazon S3.  • Wrote distributed image processing algorithms using Celery and Redis.  Personal Projects  CNN Applies to Street View House Numbers Detection (Source Code)  • Created multiple convolutional layers CNN (Convolutional Neural Networks) using Tensorflow, made prediction accuracy up to 79%.  • Wrote distributed image preprocessing tasks, largely speeded up image read and transform procedure.  LSI Based Query Search System Using Streaming Matrix Sketch (Source Code)  • Reduced time cost of low-rank approximation procedure by replacing SVD with frequency direction algorithm  • Combined efficiency of frequency direction algorithm with LSI's (Latent Semantic Indexing) excellent performance on text mining and information retrieval, acquired great improvement on search process in large number of articles without losing accuracy.  Solve TSP Using Dynamic Programming and Genetic Algorithm(Source Code)  • Applied top-down dynamic programming algorithm on solving TSP (Traveler Salesman Problem) and significantly reduced time cost.  • Wrote Genetic Algorithm to find the best path gained by every evaluation and compared its performance with the results created by multiple algorithms including brute force algorithm and DP.  Car Prices Prediction and Analysis(Ongoing)  • Create vehicle prices crawler to gather data from cars.com features restarts from last position and changes IP address periodically.  • Able to clean data automatically and draw multiple 2-D graphs for a particular vehicle. Python Developer, Web Developer, Scripts Developer Lbadvisor - ??? March 2015 to August 2015 • Designed ReSTful APIs and generated AngularJS based web apps.    • Wrote Distributed Web Crawler to gather public user information for Social Media Analysis  • Created Single sign-on (SSO) similar to Google login APIs for multiples sites to simplify login procedure. Education Master of Computer Science in Computer Science Illinois Institute of Technology - Chicago, IL September 2015 to Present Bachelor of Computation and Information Science in Mathematics Capital Normal University - ??? September 2011 to June 2015 Additional Information • Technologies: Vim, Git, Nginx, JQuery, Angularjs, Bootstrap, Numpy, Pandas, Matplotlib, MySQL, PostgreSQL