Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Santander Bank New York, NY Work Experience Python Developer Santander Bank September 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Developed Views and Templates with Django view controller and template language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Created APIs, database Model and Views Utilization Python in order to build responsive web page application.  • Used Git version control for code sharing in order to save the committed changes that are made to the project files by using different commands.  • Developed Python based API (RESTful Web Service) to insert, delete and update campaign rules in JOB Config DB using Django, SQLAlchemy and PostgreSQL. Deployed all the API's on AWS EC2.  • Contributed for Quantum (Spark Execution Framework-Scala Classes) which is an inner-sourced big data framework that enables users to easily ingest, process, and act on batch and real-time data using open source technologies.  • Managed Amazon redshift clusters such as launching the cluster by specifying the nodes and performing the data analysis queries.  • Python based API (RESTful Web Service) to track the events and perform Statistical analysis using Django  • Automated Testing Framework has been built to comply with CI/CD pipeline using Nose Test and PyTest.  • Worked with the team in setting up Airflow in distributed mode using Rabbit MQ and Celery for executing the jobs on AWS EC2.  • Developed programs in Spark based on the application for faster data processing than standard MapReduce.  Developed spark programs using Scala, involved in creating Spark SQLQueries and Developed Ooziest workflow for sparkjobs.  • Performed Unit testing, Integration Testing, GUI and web application testing using Rspec.  • Automated the continuous integration and deployments using Jenkins, Docker, Ansible and AWS Cloud Templates.  • Developed automated process for builds and deployments by using Jenkins, Ant, Maven, Shell Script.  • Worked in MySQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization.    Environment: Python 3.7, Django 1.4, HTML5, CSS, XML, MySQL, JavaScript, Angular JS, Backbone JS, JQuery, CSS Bootstrap, Mongo DB, T-SQL, JavaScript, Eclipse, Git, GitHub, AWS, Linux, Shell Scripting. Python Developer Fidelity Investments - Bostan July 2015 to August 2016 Responsibilities:  • Implemented Python alongside using various libraries such as matPlotLib for charts and graphs, MySQL dB for database connectivity, PySide, Pickle, Pandas data frame, network, urllib2.  • Develop programs to automate the testing of controller in CI/CD environment using Python, Bash script, Git and Linux command line.  • Developed Python based API (RESTful Web Service) to track the events and perform analysis using Flask.  • Designed and developed Application based on the Flask MVC Framework using MVC design pattern.  • Successfully migrated the Flask database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  • Involved in Developing configuration management, packaging, disaster recovery and delivery systems based on zc.buildout and Python.  • Used Test driven approach for developing the application and Implemented the unit tests using python Unit test framework.  • Implemented visualization using Elastic search, kibana and LogStash on Apache server.  • Used Redis cache for storing commonly used info and propagate the changes using RabbitMQ.  • Used EC2 Container Service (ECS) to support Docker containers to easily run applications on a managed cluster of Amazon EC2 instances.  • Virtualized the servers using the Docker for the test environments and dev-environments using Docker containers.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Handled real-time data feeds through Apache Kafka and designed and Set up environment of MongoDB with shards and replica sets (Dev/Test and Production)  • Provided automation, used Configuration Management Tool, Chef and Integrate the dynamic pages with JavaScript, Bootstrap and j-query to make the pages dynamic.  • Using Ansible inventories to define groups of hosts Exceptional Customer Service  • Creating Ansible playbooks Using Ansible playbooks to configure systems to a specified state.  • Creating and using Ansible templates to create customized configuration files for hosts technical Support  • Creating Ansible roles using Ansible Vault in playbooks to protect sensitive data.    Environment: Python 3.x/2.7, Flask, HTML5/CSS, MS SQL Server 2013, MySQL, JavaScript, Eclipse, Linux, Shell Scripting, JQuery, GitHub, JIRA. Jr. Software Python - Hyderabad, Telangana March 2013 to June 2015 Responsibilities:  • Created UI using JavaScript and HTML5/CSS and developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Exported/Imported data between different data sources using SQL Server Management Studio and maintained program libraries, user manuals and technical documentation.  • Built various graphs for business decision-making use of Python matPlotLib library and fetched twitter feeds for certain important keyword using Python-twitter library.  • Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete and worked with team of developers on Python applications for RISK management.  • Refactored existing project to make it more RESTful and thread-safe and added unit tests and improved existing ones.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.4, MySQL, Windows, Linux, HTML, CSS, JQuery, JavaScript, Apache, Linux, Quality Center. Education Master's in Computer Science Chicago State University Bachelors in Electronics and Communication Engineering JNTU Skills BOOTSTRAP (4 years), CSS (4 years), LINUX (4 years), SQL (4 years), DJANGO (3 years) Additional Information Skills  BOOTSTRAP (4 years), CSS (4 years), LINUX (4 years), PYTHON (4 years), SQL (4 years)  Technical skills:    Frameworks: Django, PyJamas, Jython, CSS Bootstrap  Programming Languages: Python, C, SQL and PL/SQL.  Version Control: SVN, Git, GitHub, Bitbucket.  Databases: Oracle (9i, 10g, 11g), RDBMS, My SQL, DynamoDB, Amazon RDS.  IDE's/ Development Tools: NetBeans, Eclipse, PyCharm, PyScripter, PyStudio and Sublime Text.  Operating Systems: Windows, Red hat Linux 4.x/5.x/6.x, Ubuntu.  Protocols: TCP/IP, HTTP/HTTPS, SOAP, SMTP  Deployment Tools: Heroku, Jenkins  Testing Tools: Unit test, Pytest, nose  Project Management tools: JIRA, Scrum