Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - T-mobile Seattle, WA • Over 8+ years of experience as an Analysis, Design, Development, Management and Implementation of various stand-alone, client-server enterprise applications using Python.  • Strong experience in developing software in Python using libraries- Beautiful Soup, numpy, scipy, matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas data frame, network, urllib2, MySQL dB for database connectivity and IDEs - sublime text, PyStudio, PyScripter, Spyder, PyCharm, and PyDev  • Sound experience in working with different python editors like PyCharm, PyScripter, PyStudio, Sublime Text, Emacs and Spyder  • Having experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Experience in implementing server-side technologies with restful API and MVC design patterns in node JS and Django framework.  • Implemented automation using Selenium WebDriver, Python.  • Experienced with full software development life-cycle, architecting scalable platforms, object-oriented programming, database design and agile methodologies  • Strong Experience in Automating Web Application Testing using Selenium WebDriver with Testing Framework.  • Build all database mapping classes using Django models with the help of ORM like SQLAlchemy.  • Expert in analyzing test results and preparing test/defect summary report for Sr. Management.  • Experience in Python, Django, Zope, Pyramid Framework  • Strong exposure testing applications on different browsers like IE, Firefox, Chrome.  • Expertise in locating the web elements using XPATH and CSS.  • Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL and Python) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python) Architectures.  • Good experience in setting up REST API using Django.  • Firm knowledge of different phases of Software Testing and Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including Agile Methodology and Waterfall.  • Worked on Python Testing frameworks like zope, pytest, nose and Robot framework.  • Good Experience in Linux Bash scripting and following PEP Guidelines in Python.  • Good knowledge in front end technologies such as HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, Node.JS, Angular.JS, XML, Ajax and JQuery.  • Good knowledge in Object-Oriented Analysis, Design and development of applications using Core Java, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, RMI, Multithreading, Eclipse and Tomcat.  • Good understanding of NoSQL databases such as MongoDB, Datastax, Redis and Apache Cassandra.  • Familiar with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services.  • Proficient in writing SQL Queries, Stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, triggers using relational databases like Oracle, DB2, MySQL and MSSQL Server.  • Skilled in debugging/troubleshooting issues in complex applications.  • Expertise in Object-Oriented design and coding. Good knowledge of various Design Patterns and UML.  • Followed Agile Methodologies (Scrum), involved in daily standup meetings.  • Experienced in unit testing and testing using Selenium.  • Good Experience on Selenium IDE and creating Scripts in selenium --RC by using Python  • Experienced in developing applications using Amazon web services like EC2, Cloud Search, Elastic Load balancer ELB, S3, Cloud Front, Route 53.  • Experienced in Version controlling tools like Dimensions, Git, CVS and SVN and build Tools like Hudson, Clear Case and Ant.  • Good Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, PHP, C++, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and JQuery, MVC3, RESTful, RUBY, AJAX  • Good experience in Shell Scripting, SQL Server, Unix and Linux, Open stock.  • Expertise in Object-Oriented design and coding. Good knowledge of various Design Patterns and UML.  • Have good idea about development tools like Bugzilla, Jira, Confluence, and Axosoft.  • Expert in maintaining technical documentation for projects.  • Good analytical and problem-solving skills and ability to work on own besides being a valuable and contributing team player.  • Excellent Interpersonal and communication skills, efficient time management and organization skills, ability to handle multiple tasks and work well in a team environment. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Python Developer T-mobile - Seattle, WA June 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Associated with various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the application like requirement gathering, Design, Analysis and Code development.  • Worked with team of developers on Python applications for RISK management.  • Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation.  • Experienced in ORM programming in converting data between incompatible type systems in OOP languages.  • Developed flask Restful API endpoints for accessing through UI and uploading ETL data.  • Contribute to major development initiatives with codebases utilizing Python, Django, R, MySQL, MongoDB, jQuery and React.  • Work with multiple team to develop services and coordinate releases.  • Used PHP as an HTML embedded scripting language, in front end web development.  • Prepare Test scripts for different applications using QTP & Selenium  • Run a Regression test on Selenium after every build.  • Automation of internal web application through Selenium 2 WebDriver.  • Performed Compatibility testing of applications for dynamic and static content of browsers using HTML Ids and XPath in Selenium.  • Developed ETL (Extract Transform Load) software for DB2 columnar database fact and dimension tables.  • Develop data models for applications, metadata tables, views or related database structures.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework with GIT.  • Involved in designing and deploying multitude applications utilizing almost all the AWS services Including EC2, Route53, S3, RDS, Dynamo DB, SNS, SQS, IAM focusing on high-availability, fault tolerance, and auto-scaling in AWS Cloud Formation.  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture.  • Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQLdb package.  • Used NoSQL database Apache Cassandra to load the data in database.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Utilized Python libraries wxPython, numPY, Twisted and Mat PlotLib.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Responsible for writing/modifying scripts using sh and Bash for day-to-day administration.  • Used IDE tool to develop the application and JIRA for bug and issue tracking and Used JIRA to assign, track, report and audit the issues.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Java, Bootstrap, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Carried out various mathematical operations for calculation purpose using python libraries.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Performed research to explore and identify new technological platforms.  • Collaborated with internal teams to convert end user feedback into meaningful and improved solutions.  • Resolved ongoing problems and accurately documented progress of a project.    Environment: Python, Django, MongoDB, Selenium, Amazon Aws, Pandas, Java, JQuery, Bootstrap, MySQL, Linux, Ajax, Java Script, Apache, Cassandra, HTML5 and CSS Sr. Python Developer Amerisource Bergen May 2015 to June 2018 Responsibilities:  • Translated the customer requirements into design specifications and ensured that the requirements translate into software solution.  • Application was based on service-oriented architecture and used Python 2.7, Django 1.5, JSF 2.1, Spring 3.2.5, Ajax, HTML, CSS for the frontend.  • Developed Automation Scripts for Regression using Selenium Web Driver and Python.  • Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online financial users.  • Worked on Integration of Selenium RC/WebDriver with existing API to test Framework.  • Created Materialized Views, tables, complex SQL queries, and Correlated sub queries, Nested Queries, Views and Function Based Indexes for effective Business Application Development.  • Maintain Selenium scripts in between releases. Reproduce failed automated test cases manually  • Provide cross-browser (Chrome, Firefox, MSIE, Safari, Opera) and cross-platform (Windows 8) testing of the application's web pages.  • Build web scrappers using Python to extract counterparty ratings for credit risk monitoring.  • Automated data extraction, Transformation and Loading(ETL) process using python  • Used PandasAPI to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Designed an automated program for the entire reporting, qualification and payout process using R program, resulting in a significant improvement in work-time efficiency.  • Built linear and logistic regression models to predict risk and revenue factors including credit  risk, severity, attrition, over-limit fee, etc.  • Cleaned data and processed third party spending data into maneuverable deliverables within specific formats with Excel macros and python libraries. Used TDD (Test driven development) methodology.  • Experienced Python on LINUX for execution.  • Actively involved in developing the methods for Create, Read, Update and Delete (CRUD) in Active Record.  • Implemented database access using Django ORM.  • Designed and developed ETL processes that were used to integrate data between various sources using Informatica, PowerCenter 9.  • Designed and developed Oracle PL/SQL Procedures, Functions, and Database Triggers and involved in creating and updating Packages to meet business requirements.  • Used Python library BeautifulSoup for webscrapping to extract data for building graphs  • Played a key role in a development wide transition from Subversion to Git, which resulted in an increase in efficiency for the development community.  • Enhanced existing automated solutions, such as the Inquiry Tool for automated Asset Department reporting and added new features and fixed bugs.  • Created modules to transform incoming XML trade data into trade objects, parse trade data and create outbound FPML (Financial Products Markup Language) sent to DTCC repositories.  • Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, OracleDB, PostgreSQL, and VMWare API calls.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Used many regular expressions in order to match the pattern with the existing one.  • Worked with team of developers on Python applications for RISK management.  • Responsible for inserting deleting and updating all financial data using MySQL.  • Skilled in using collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  • Troubleshooting ETL issues in SQL Server Integration Services  • Involved in Unit testing and Integration testing.  • Created voice-controlled application for client using Jasper  • Used Robot Framework, RIDE and developed few test suites for testing application.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using python.  • Creation of SQL Logins, Roles and Authentication Modes as a part of Security Policies for various categories of user.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Implemented the validation, error handling, and caching  • Used Test driven approach (TDD) for developing services required for the application.  • Worked in development of applications especially in Linux environment and familiar with all of its commands.  • Refactored existing project to make it more RESTful and thread-safe.  • Added unit tests and improved existing ones.  • Designed RESTful XML web service for handling AJAX requests  • Created project designs utilizing MVC architecture components.  • Used JIRA for bug tracking and issue tracking.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.    Environment: Python, Django, Selenium, HTML5, CSS, VMware, Oracle DB, Pandas, Spring, MS SQL Server 2013, Jasper, Reports, JavaScript, Ajax, Eclipse, Linux, Shell Scripting, RESTful, MVC3. Python Developer Express Scripts Inc - Franklin Lakes, NJ April 2011 to May 2015 Responsibilities:  • Converted Visual Basic Application to Python, MSQL.  • Used python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Created Reports using JASPER.  • Used Thales asynchronous theorem for applying encryption and decryption of ISO standard message in Python programming.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Implemented schema and data migration for the postgres database using South migration tool.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS, JQuery and JavaScript.  • Developed user-friendly modals for the form submissions using simplemodal.js, JQuery, Ajax and JavaScript.  • Experience in building the war with help the putty and deployed into cloud environment using the cloud controller and experience in solving the cloud issue.  • Designed and maintained PowerShell based troubleshooting procedures for bulk changes  • Developed PowerShell scripts to configure the upgraded Exchange environment, migrate users, then monitor and maintain the new environment  • Used Python modules such as requests, urllib, urllib2 for web crawling.  • Worked on writing and as well as read data from csv and excel file formats.  • Performed QA testing on the application.  • Developed approaches for improving NLP pipeline.  • Create custom VB scripts in repackaging applications as needed.  • Wrote scripts in Python for extracting data from HTML file.  • Designed the frontend web pages using HTML, JavaScript, Angular JS, JQuery and AJAX. Used CSS  • for better appearance. Writing templates for front end pages where we include HTML pages and  • JavaScript files knowledge of cross-browser and cross-platform development of HTML and CSS  • based websites in Windows like IE 6, IE 7, IE 8 and FF.  • Interactive in providing change requests, trouble reports and requirements collection with the client.  • Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all of its commands.  • Experience in debugging and troubleshooting programming related issues.  • Improved performance by using more modularized approach and using more in built methods.  • Improved caching system for the test webserver.  • Collaborated with internal teams to convert end user feedback into meaningful and improved solutions.    Environment: Python, Django, VB scripts, Jenkins, Jasper, Gerrit, MySQL, Unix, HTML, CSS, JQuery, JavaScript, Apache, Ajax, simplemodal.js, Git, PowerShell. Education Bachelor's Additional Information Technical Skills:    Frameworks Django, Flask, Zope, PyJamas, Jython, Struts and CSS Bootstrap  Web Technologies HTML, CSS, Java Script, JQuery, AJAX, XML, AngularJS, NodeJS  Programming Languages Python, Java, C/C++, PERL, SQL and PL/SQL.  Scripting languages CSS, AJAX, Java Script, JQuery, PHP, PowerShell Scripting  Versioning Tools SVN, CVS, Git, GitHub, Bambo, BitBucket  Analytic Tools JMP PRO, SAS, Tableau, UCI NET, NodeXL, MVC3  Application servers Apache Tomcat, Nginix, JBoss, WebLogic, WebSphere  Databases Oracle (9i,10g, 11g), My SQL, Apache Cassandra, MongoDB  IDE's/ Development Tools NetBeans, Eclipse, PyCharm, PyScripter, PyStudio, and Sublime Text.    Operating Systems Windows, Red hat Linux 4.x/5.x/6.x, MAC OSX.  Protocols TCP/IP, HTTP/HTTPS, SOAP, SMTP  Deployment Tools Heroku, Amazon EC2  Testing Tools Selenium, Bugzilla, Crucible and JIRA.  Protocols TCP/IP, HTTP/HTTPS, SOAP, SMTP