Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - DTCC, NY New York, NY Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Python Developer DTCC, NY January 2018 to Present Responsibilities: -  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Developed Business Logic using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Write scripts using python modules and its libraries to develop programs that improve processing of access requests.  • Worked on various complex modules in python including ceODBC, pyODBC, JSON, XML, Requests, profiler.  • Utilized PyUnit, the Python Unit test framework, for all Python applications and used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Used PyQuery for selecting particular DOM elements when parsing HTML.  • Designed and created backend data access modules using PL/SQL stored procedures and Oracle 9i.  • Worked in an agile development environment.  • Used HTML, CSS, JQuery, JSON and JavaScript for front end applications.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Designed object model, data model, tables, constraints, necessary stored procedures, functions, triggers, and packages for Oracle Database.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Used Wireshark, live http headers, and Fiddler debugging proxy to debug the Flash object and help the developer create a functional component.    Environment:Linux, Windows, AWS, EC2, VPC, Glacier, RDS, Aurora, SQLAlchemy, Docker, Angular JS, Angular2, Angular4, Node JS, Python 3.5, Django 1.7, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, Redis, RabbitMQ, Bootstrap, AJAX, JQuery, Pandas, SOAP, Rest, PyUnit, PostGreSQL, Shell Script, MySQL, Servlets, Agile, Enterprise Scheduler, Bitvise SSH Client, Scrum, Heroku, JIRA, GIT. Python Developer World wide Express - Dallas, TX July 2016 to December 2017 Responsibilities  * Responsible for analyzing various cross-functional, multi-platform applications systems enforcing Python best practices and provide guidance in making long term architectural design decisions.  * Coded model level validation using Python programming with emphasis in web security.  * Handled Business logics by backend Python programming to achieve optimal results.  * Implemented jQuery to improve the overall usability of the website interface and AJAX functionality to speed up web application.  * Developed views and templates in Django to create a user-friendly website interface.  * Configured Django to manage URLs and application parameters.  * Extensively used Python / Django Framework for developing backend of web applications.  * Used Django APIs for database access.  * Developed web services using Restful technology to support JSON and XML.  * Created new connections through applications for better access to MySQL database and involved in writing SQL & PLSQL - Stored procedures, functions, sequences, triggers, cursors, object types etc.  * Used Play Framework with Scala.  * Designed RabbitMQ/MongoDB pipeline for routing/storing of email bounce handling records.  * Implemented AJAX to update necessary section of webpages and hence, avoiding the need for reloading the entire web page.  * Developed and tested many features in an Agile environment using Python, Django, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap.  * Creating and configuring virtual development environments with Chef and Virtual Box.  * Managed code with unit tests and GitHub.  * Developed Capistrano scripts to automate deployment on various environments.  * Used GIT as Source control repositories with regular code reviews and pull/merge requests.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.7, CSS, HTML, Bootstrap, JavaScript, AJAX, jQuery, Pandas, MYSQL, Restful API's, Linux, Servlets, JavaBeans, SCRUM, Agile, Heroku, JIRA, GIT Python Developer HCSC - Chicago, IL December 2013 to May 2016 Responsibilities:  • Created server-monitoring daemon with Psutil, supported by Django app for analytics, which I created. Also researched big data solutions with Cassandradatabase.  • Worked on development of customer support and complains registration system. This is a Customer feedback and complains management system.  • Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website.  • Coding and execution of scripts in Python/Unix/VB  • Development of Application using Java and Python  • Recording of Scripts (Web, Web Services HTML) using Vugen and SoapUI and script validation through co correlations, parameterizations and other methods. Scripting - web and web services  • Data set up using SQL/ORACLE/Teradata.  • Resolving Complexity in the scripts of the website due to the complex logic and correlations  • Script validation sometimes becomes challenging as it demanded many web based logic rather than correlation and parameterization.  • Running load/endurance tests using Vugen, ALM and controller, server monitoring, analysis using Dyanatarce, UNIX putty, SQL logs and other tools and reporting the performance. Analyzing errors and exceptions using putty logs (UNIX), etc.  • Testing in citrix protocol with scripts and scenario.  • Execution of batch jobs in Control M, Perfmon and other tools  • Scripting and validation of scripts through correlation, parameterization and web based logic testing (Smoke test, Load test, Endurance) using Controller for a duration further analysis, checking response times, CPU utilizations, memory leaks of servers and other performance characteristics of the website through capturing Perfmon logs and creating PAPAL reports and creating test reports.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django/Java module to deliver certain format of data  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using python.  • Responsible for search engine optimization (SEO) to improve the visibility of the website handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code  • Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Environment: Python 2.7, C+, HP LOAD (VUGEN, Controller, etc.) Putty, SQL, Teradata, SoapUI, ControlM, Perfmon, Django Web Framework, MySQL, Linux, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, Apache Web Server. Python Developer TCS/CITI Bank - Pune, Maharashtra March 2010 to April 2012 Responsibilities:  • Involved in the development of front end of the application using Python 2.7, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JSON and JQuery and worked on backend of the application, mainly using Active Records.  • Developed dynamic web pages using Python, Django Frameworks.  • Developed monitoring and notification tools using Python.  • Improved the application by designing and developing it using HTML and JavaScript.  • Used data structures like directories, topples, object oriented class based inheritance features for making complex algorithms of networks.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing python, in order to build an interactive web based solution.  • Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users.  • Created Data tables utilizing PyQt to display patient and policy information and add, delete, update patient records.  • Wrote a Python module to connect and view the status of an Apache Cassandra instance.  • Experience defining data objects, models and data definitions for Financial business systems by mapping its various components as required for Data Migration/Conversion/Integration.  • Design & create ETL processes as needed to meet business requirements and ensure successful data migration for project implementation.  • Perform Data Profiling, Assessment, and Data Cleansing as required to meet data migration goals.  • Developed MVC prototype replacement of current product with Django.  • Significantly improved report generation efficiency by caching, reusing and improve the security level of data.  • Worked on automation and continuous integration process with Cloud bees Enterprise Jenkins.  • Used Jenkins for Continuous Integration and deployment into Tomcat Application Server.  • Installed and configured Jenkins for Automating Deployments and providing an automation solution.  • Integrated GIT into Jenkins to automate the code check-out process.  • Wrote scripts to integrate API's with third party applications. Python/Django based web application, PostgreSQL, and integrations with third party email, messaging, storage services.  • Wrote Python normalizations scripts to find duplicate data in different environments.  • Used Jenkins for automating Builds and Automating Deployments. Used Jenkins for the continuous integration process, automation and assisted in the code coverage and analysis by generating reports  • Followed Agile Methodologies to manage full life-cycle development of the project and used JIRA to keep track of the • Managed builds and wrote Build scripts for JAVA and WebSphere based applications.  • Create and setup automated nightly build environment for Java projects using Maven.  • Performed the development in using LAMP and WAMP open source web service stacks.  • Engaged in understanding PHP Code and re-build the code in Python.  • Worked on serializing data using Serializes in DjangoRest Framework.  • Rewrite existing Java, C++ application in Python.  • Generated Python Django forms to record data of online users and used PyTestfor writing test cases.  • Implementing change requests raised by user for server configuration, kernel tuning, software installation and OS hardening, Managing Linux VMs using Puppet as per some projects requirement.  • Used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Developed Python OO Design code for manufacturing quality, monitoring, logging, and debugging code optimization.  • Responsible for analysis, design, development and integration of Market Risk applications with FLEX/JAVA/ PYTHON.  • Used Python to place data into JSON files for testing Django Websites.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web based solution.  • Wrote Python routines to log into the websites and fetch data for selected options.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django, Beautifulsoup, HTML5, AWS, CSS/CSS3, Bootstrap, XML, JSON, JavaScript, JQuery, Restful Web services, Apache, Linux, Git, Amazon s3, Jenkins, MySQL, Mongo DB, T-SQL, Eclipse.. Education Masters in computer science western illinois university 2013 Bachelors in Computer science IIT - Chennai, Tamil Nadu 2010