Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Nike ? Having 5 years of IT Industry experience in designing, developing and maintaining large-scale systems/applications.  ? Significant expertise in Python 2.7, 3.2 and 3.5.  ? Experienced with full software development life-cycle, architecting scalable platforms, object oriented programming, database design and agile methodologies  ? Expert knowledge of and experience in Object Oriented Design and Programming concepts.  ? Experience in writing REST APIs in Python for large-scale applications.  ? Experience using Python's REST framework.  ? Significant experience in using Python's application development frameworks such as Django.  ? Experience in real-time configuration and management of MySQL, MongoDB, Cassandra and PostgreSQL databases on a large scale.  ? Worked on several Python packages like Numpy, Beautiful Soup, Pickle, PySide, Scipy, PyTables.  ? Familiar with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services.  ? Good experience in writing SQL queries and implementing stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, cursors, triggers.  ? Significant application development experience in Ubuntu, RedHat and Windows environments.  ? Extensive usage of developmental tools such as Eclipse, PyCharm and Sublime Text, version control tools like Git and Apache SVN.  ? Experience in adopting security best practices during development and production.  ? Experience in testing and debugging applications using PyUnit, PyTest and JUnit frameworks.  ? Experience in writing test cases from the requirements and also, writing various test scripts for the applications.  ? Experience working in a Test-Driven Development environment and software development lifecycles such as Waterfall and Agile (Scrum)  ? Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  ? Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  ? Worked in agile and waterfall methodologies with high quality deliverables delivered on-time.  ? Maintained detailed documentation and architectural solutions in IT infrastructure and sales systems. Work Experience Python Developer Nike - Hillsboro, OR March 2017 to Present Description:  Use of Python, SQL, and AWS to query data out of FlexPLM Production instance to check for data quality measures. This is a component of Digital Optimization that ensures data is managed accurately and consistently. FlexPLM application which business users are using for product development. As different functionalities go live, new users start using it and hence, the information that is entered into the system needs to be audited. The reports built from the query and Python are used for dash boarding and audit reports that inform where errant data needs to be cleansed. By enabling clean data, data can be trusted to accelerate data and analytics initiatives that can unlock new value streams and opportunities.    Responsibilities:  ? Working with complex datasets including Python's native lists, dictionaries and tuples.  ? Used Pandas Data frame for analyzing data, data structures, manage Large data files and converting Large CSV files to Parquet files.  ? Responsible for analyzing various cross-functional, multi-platform applications systems enforcing Python best practices and provide guidance in making long term architectural design decisions.  ? Wrote and executed various Oracle database queries from python using Python- cx  Oracle connector.  ? Handled Business logics by backend Python programming to achieve optimal results and Wrote Python scripts to parse XML, CSV and text files and load the data into AWS S3 buckets and call files from AWS S3 to Tableau using AWS Athena Service.  ? Launched AWS EC2 Cloud Instances using Amazon Web Services (Linux/ Ubuntu/RHEL) and Configured launched instances with respect to specific applications and Software's.  ? Experience in designing and deploying AWS Solutions using EC2, S3, AWS EMR, Athena and AWS Redshift.  ? Developed Spark code using Python and Spark-SQL for faster testing and processing of data.  ? Launched AWS EMR Instance using Amazon Web Services using spark application, implemented Spark using PySpark and Spark SQL for faster processing of data.  ? Experience in writing Terraform scripts for AWS infrastructure.  ? Connected continuous integration system with GIT version control repository and continually build as the check-in's come from the developer.  ? Used Python, JSON processing, data exchange and business logic implementation  ? Co-ordinated with developers, Business Analyst and Mangers to make sure that code is deployed in the Production Environment.  ? Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  ? Worked on development of SQL queries and stored procedures for normalization and renormalization in Oracle SQL Developer.  ? Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  ? Skilled in using Collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  ? Wrote Python OO Design code for manufacturing quality, monitoring, logging, and debugging code optimization.  ? Involved in Installation and setting up Python /Linux test beds. Worked with JSON based REST Web services.  ? Work with our current application teams to understand our current applications and make migration recommendations and to-be architectures in AWS  ? Involved in reviewing business requirements and analyzing data sources form Excel/Oracle SQL Server for design, development, testing, and production rollover of reporting and analysis projects within Tableau Desktop.  ? Created views in Tableau Desktop that were published to internal team for review and further data analysis and customization using filters and actions.  ? Developed story telling dashboards in Tableau Desktop and published them on to Tableau Server which allowed end users to understand the data on the fly with the usage of quick filters for on demand needed information.  ? Scheduled data refresh on Tableau Server for weekly and monthly increments based on business change to ensure that the views and dashboards were displaying the changed data accurately.  ? Engaged in Design, Development, Deployment, Testing, Implementation of the application.  Environment: Python 3.6, UNIX, Oracle SQL Developer 12g, RESTful, AWS S3, Amazon EC2, AWS Athena, Amazon EMR, Pandas, Jenkins, Docker, , JSON Sublime, Linux, Windows, Tableau.p Python Developer CVS Health - Phoenix, AZ October 2016 to March 2017 Description:  CVS is an American retail Pharmacy and Health care company. It Includes CVS Pharmacy, CVS Caremark and CVS Specialty. CVS Health provides evidence-based healthcare solutions in the areas of Radiology, Radiation Therapy, Cardiology, Lab Management, Oncology, Pain Management and Sleep Management. Exports Services is a platform comprised of over 30 products that range from UI, Web Services, Windows Services, and Database Systems. The day to day maintenance for these platforms entrails building new database scripts, creating new web services, implementing new customers onto the platform, and enhancing existing products.    Responsibilities:  ? Designing, developing and managing REST APIs utilizing Django's Rest framework and overlooking the API system.  ? Responsible for developing an automated system to identify redundant server instances with the same session IDs and mark them for deletion, thereby freeing the memory by a significant amount at times.  ? Development of web applications using Python frameworks as Django.  ? Successful migration of the default Django's database (SQLite) to PostgreSQL to improve efficiency, integrity and security of data.  ? Involved in database-driven web application development using a variety of frameworks such as Django on Python.  ? Proficient in PostgreSQL development (tables, views, joins) and migrations from SQLite databases preserving the integrity. Also proficient in database normalization process and the various normal forms.  ? Experience working with complex datasets including Python's native lists, dictionaries and tuples.  ? Designed and developed templates using Django's template library and utilized them using Django's forms library.  ? Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python and was responsible for search engine optimization to improve the visibility of the website.  ? Experience working with version control systems such as Git and Apache SVN for maintaining a consistent state throughout the application development process.  ? Followed Scrum along with Test-Driven Development to develop applications, services and software solutions.  ? Responsible for constantly communicating the progress and issues to the higher management and making necessary changes to the application based on flexibility, scalability and security issues.  Environment: Django 1.10, JSON, Mango DB, RISK management, SOAP, REST, GitHub. Python Developer Exposure on Multi-Threading - Herndon, VA August 2015 to August 2016 Responsibilities:  ? Developed web applications in Django Framework's model view control (MVC) architecture.  ? Exposure on Multi-Threading factory to distribute learning process back-testing and into various worker processes.  ? Performed efficient delivery of code based on principles of Test Driven Development (TDD) and continuous integration to keep in line with Agile Software Methodology principles.  ? Different testing methodologies like unit testing, Integration testing, web application testing.  ? Python/Django based web application, PostgreSql DB, and integrations with 3rd party email, messaging, storage services.  ? Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash  ? Design and implemented custom scripts.  ? Develop consumer based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML and Test Driven Development (TDD)  ? Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  ? Responsible for tracking and monitoring project status in JIRA (Agile)  ? Developed Python web services for processing JSON and interfacing with the Data layer.  ? Worked on deployment of project on to Amazon S3.  ? Used GIT version control.  ? Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures for normalization and renormalization in MYSQL.  ? Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  ? Skilled in using Collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  ? Engaged in Design, Development, Deployment, Testing, Implementation of the application.  ? Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all of its commands.  ? Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.4, HTML5, CSS, XML, MySQL, Script, C++, Angular JS, Backbone JS, JQuery, CSS Bootstrap, Mongo DB, MS SQL Server, T-SQL, Script, Eclipse, Git, GitHub, AWS, Linux, Shell Scripting. Python developer Innovative Technologies June 2014 to December 2015 Description:  Innovative Technologies private limited deliver software solutions in a manner that materially improves customer experience by applying new and disruptive technology to customer's business situations. Provides an intelligent business decision enabling service designed to grow customer's business and give them the best returns on intelligence.    Responsibilities:  ? Responsible for using the best technologies to add features to the existing system and services.  ? Involved in all aspects of the development process from product inception to scaling in production.  ? Responsible for driving software development best practices for the team and also, mentoring and developing junior engineers.  ? Working in collaboration with project managers and higher management in cross-functional teams within Sales and Account Management, to understand business requirements and develop efficient, elegant approaches to their implementation.  ? Writing REST APIs, as part of developing web-based applications for insurance premium calculations, using Django's REST framework.  ? Heavily leveraged Python's graphics APIs for creating graphics and serialization libraries for encoding data in XML/JSON formats.  ? Also involved in writing REST APIs using Django framework for data exchange and business logic implementation.  ? Experience in using collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  ? Design and implemented custom Bash scripts for controlling the data flow from the PostgreSQL database.  ? Assisted the development team in sending the correct data via query strings using PostgreSQL as the back-end for storing data.  ? Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  ? Responsible for configuring NoSQL databases like Apache Cassandra and Mongo DB to for increasing compatibility with Django.  ? Designed and created backend data access modules using PL/SQL stored procedures.  ? Good experience in writing SQL Queries and implementing stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, cursors, triggers.  ? Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA.  ? Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many bug fixes for applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  ? Handled potential points of failure through error handling and communication of failure.  ? Risk analysis for potential points of failure (database, communication points and file system errors)  ? Troubleshoot the process execution and worked with other team members to correct them.  ? Actively worked as a part of team with managers and other staff to meet the goals of the project in the stipulated time.  ? Developed and executed User Acceptance Testing portion of test plan.  ? Generated Django forms to record data of online users and used PyTest for writing test cases.  ? Extensive use of version controlling systems like GIT and SVN.  ? Involved in capturing the requirements for serial functional interface and other software requirements specification document.  Environment: Python, Django, MySQL, SVN, Unit Test.