Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - Schlumberger Sugar Land, TX ? 9+ years of experience in developing web-based applications and design using Python, Django, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JAVA, AngularJS, jQuery and C++.  ? Good Experience in programming and object oriented programming using Python and C++.  ? Experience in using Beautiful Soup python package for parsing HTML and XML documents.  ? Worked on the front end applications experience using HTML and CSS.  ? Expertise in creating SQL Databases like oracle and non-SQL databases MongoDB.  ? Applications using Python integrated IDE's like IntelliJ, Eclipse and PyCharm.  ? Knowledge of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), Agile and Waterfall Methodologies and Familiar with concepts and devices such routers, switches and TCP/IP protocols and OSI layer.  ? Experienced in Working on Big Data Integration and Analytics based on Hadoop, Spark.  ? Experience with RDBMS which is the basis for most of the modern Databases.  ? Experience in using Design Patterns such as MVC, Singleton and frameworks such as DJANGO.  ? Strong Experience in Big data technologies including Apache Spark, Hadoop, HDFS, Hive.  ? Knowledge with developing API's and also building Web Services.  ? Experience in writing Subqueries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  ? Worked with developing the application using Python, AJAX, JSON and jQuery.  ? Experience with Angular JS to develop interactive websites.  ? Wrote AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings  ? Experience with Java Script manipulation using jQuery.  ? Developed dynamic web pages including front end and back end using Python and Django Frameworks.  ? Worked on Bootstrap framework for designing user friendly interface.  ? Experience in handling errors/exceptions and debugging issues in large scale applications.  ? Familiar working and using Git repository.  ? Strong at Problem solving and Analytical Skills.  ? Highly dedicated, quick learner and have ability to work individually and as a team. Work Experience Sr. Python Developer Schlumberger - Sugar Land, TX April 2017 to Present Schlumberger is the world's largest oilfield services company. Schlumberger is incorporated in Willemstad, curaçao as Schlumberger N.V. There are over 100,000 employs working in this company representing 140 nationalities.    Responsibilities:  ? Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  ? Worked on designing, coding and developing the application in Python using Django MVC.  ? Experience in implementing and working on the python code using shell scripting.  ? Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many python bug fixes.  ? Worked on integrating Python with Web development tools for developing Web Services in python using XML, JSON.  ? Worked on server side applications with Django using python programming.  ? Collaborated within a team using an agile development workflow and widely-accepted collaboration practices using Git.  ? Working on python's UNITTEST and PYTEST frameworks.  ? Strong Experience with python automation in automating Rest APi and UI automation using Selenium webdriver using Python.  ? Analyzing business requirements, responsible for manually testing functionality and then automation using python.  ? Experience using node.js for server side scripting to create web pages.  ? Worked on front end part using Reactjs to design the web pages.  ? Testing Restful webservices with JSON payload using POSTMAN and automating them using python framework.  ? Created dynamic web pages using node.js before the page is sent to user's web browser.  ? Knowledge on NVMe and SAS, regarding transfer of data between client systems and SSD's.  ? As we have vast number of libraries in React, It made us easy to work and make reuse of components that are created only once.  ? We used RBAC and ACL to define the business roles for the users to provide them with the access by maintaining the security with their application.  ? Stored the data in an Apache Cassandra Cluster Used Impala to query the Hadoop data stored in HDFS.  ? Used third party web service API's like google for User registration, App engine, for search and Custom search.  ? Created and maintained Technical documentation for launching Hadoop Clusters and for executing Hive queries and Pig Scripts.  ? Used Python/ HTML / CSS to help the team implement dozens of new features in a massively scaled Google App Engine web application.  ? Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in python and Bash.  ? Performed job functions using Spark API's in Scala for real time analysis and for fast querying purposes.  ? Involved in converting Hive/SQL queries into Spark transformations using Spark RDDs, Python and Scala.  ? Designed and developed scalable Azure APIs using Flask web framework in Python and Integrated with Azure API Management, Logical Apps and other Azure services.  ? Built Azure APIs in the cloud using Python, also used it for Azure active directory, single sign-on and OAuth.  ? Managed datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL, queried MySQL database queries from python using python-MySQL connector MySQLDB package to retrieve information.  ? Designing and tightly integrating Flash into the CMS with the use of FlashVars stored in the Django models. Also created XML with Django to be used by the Flash.  ? Conducted systems design, feasibility and cost studies and recommend cost-effective cloud solutions such as Amazon Web Services (AWS).  ? Configured AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) Groups and Users for improved login authentication.  ? Wrote bash shell scripts on local setups to automate jobs.  ? Experience in working with number of public and private cloud platforms like Amazon Web Services (AWS), Microsoft Azure and RackSpace.  ? Worked on Micro services for Continuous Delivery environment using Docker and Jenkins.  ? Worked on creation of custom Docker container images, tagging and pushing the images.  ? Reviewed and implemented instrument pricing and modeling methodologies in collaboration with technical engineers. Analyzed and documented how instrument prices move as underlying market data sources change.  ? Utilize PyUnit, the python Unit test framework, for all python applications.  ? Worked on the MySQL migration project to make the system completely independent of the database being used. Used Spring IBatis to implement this.  ? Implemented Restful web service to interact with Redis Cache framework.  ? Providing a responsive, AJAX-driven design using JavaScript libraries such as JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS and Bootstrap.js - Using Subversion for version control.  ? Development of python APIs to dump the array structures in the Processor at the failure point for debugging.  ? Written test cases using PyUnit and Selenium Automation testing for better manipulation of test scripts.  ? After creating services using REST/Web API's they are tested using Postman.  ? Used Postman to save time whenever we make a new request without looking at the response.  ? Planning and Implementing, Disaster Recovery and Fault Tolerance for AWS services.  Environment: Python, Django Framework, Azure APIs, Shell Scripting, Spark, ReactJS, Google APIs,SOAP, REST, Hadoop, RBAC,ACL, Pandas, NVMe,Docker,Postman, node.js, MySQL, Selenium ,Scala, Flash, AWS, Windows, unix Python Developer Reuters, IL, US June 2015 to March 2017 Thomson Reuters is a multinational mass media and information firm. It shares are cross listed on the New York Stock Exchange and Toronto Stock Exchange. More than 45,000 employs in more than 100 countries.    Responsibilities:  ? Developed web applications in Django Framework's model view control (MVC) architecture.  ? Thorough knowledge in various front end tools like HTML, CSS, JavaScript, XML, jQuery, Angular JS, and AJAX. Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  ? Developed custom screens using HTML5, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap and Angular.  ? Involved in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  ? Used GitHub for python source code version control, Jenkins for automating the build Docker containers.  ? Experience in Container management using docker by writing docker files and set up the automated build on docker HUB.  ? Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  ? Involved in Developing a Restful API'S service using Python Flask framework.  ? Fetched twitter feeds for certain important keyword using Python-twitter library.  ? Deployed the project into Heroku using GIT version control system.  ? Developed a Spark job in Java which indexes data into ElasticSearch from external Hive tables which are in HDFS.  ? Developed Spark, Streams and Hadoop MapReduce jobs along with components on HDFS, Hive.  ? Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture.  ? Implemented CSS3, DOM Api, DOJO and Ajax to create a dynamic and interactive experience.  ? Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  ? Created Data tables to display customer information and add, delete, update customer records using python, MySQL and XHTML.  ? Wrote scripts to Import and Export data to CSV, EXCEL formats from different environments using Python and made a Celery action using REST API call.  ? Developed python web services for processing JSON and interfacing with the Data layer.  ? Used python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  ? Worked with Flask to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  ? Built various graphs for business decision-making using python matplotlib library.  ? Developed data analytic tools using python Pandas, and visualizations using Matplotlib and Bokeh.  ? Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures for normalization and renormalization in MYSQL.  ? Developed most of the application part in Linux environment and very much familiar with all its commands.  ? Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML/QML format.  ? Worked on HDFS to store and access huge datasets within Hadoop.  ? Used Python Library Beautiful Soup for web Scrapping.  Environment: Python, Django, JavaScript, jQuery, HTML5, Bootstrap, DOM, GitHub, AJAX, Beautiful Soup, Flask,Docker, XHTML, MySQL, XML, JSON, AWS,Linux, Shell Scripting, Bootstrap, Pandas Python Developer NEC Corporation - Irving, TX June 2013 to May 2015 NEC Corporation of America is the principal subsidiary of the multinational IT Company NEC in the United States.  NEC Corporation of America's products and services include:  automated fingerprint identification systems, carrier professional services, document solutions equipment, enterprise communications equipment, enterprise content management, OpenFlow networking equipment, identity management, leasing and financial services, optical networking equipment, Business Intelligence, Corporate Performance Management, Data warehousing, Master Data Management, Predictive Analytic services, Big Data, retail applications, servers, software, storage equipment.    Responsibilities:  ? Created python Modules for internal purpose basing on the requirement and created the entire frame work from scratch.  ? Developed scripts using pandas to easily perform read/write operations to CSV files, manipulate and compare data by columns.  ? Developed GUI using python and Django for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of python code using a web browser.  ? Created and updated views with python and Django view controller and template language to create new functionalities to the website.  ? Developed and maintained parsing modules, which read CSV, XML and JSON data from files and other REST services, processed the data.  ? Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture.  ? Perform Jenkins administration, updating plugins, setting up new projects and debugging build problems.  ? Expertise in developing web-based open stack applications using Python and Django for large dataset analysis.  ? Assisted in Creation of Python scripts for data access and analysis to aid in process and system monitoring, and reporting.  ? Responsible in writing RDBMS databases like SQLqueries to query database and queries Censhare for data and returns it as a structure on success responses and throws exception on any errors.  ? Used PythonIDE's such as PyCharm, sublime text for developing the code and performing unit test and SIT.  ? Built development environment using bug-tracking tools like JIRA and version controls such asGit, GitLab and SVN.  ? Used advanced packages like Mock, patch and Beautiful soup (b4) in extracting the Data during development phase and perform unit testing.  ? Developed an embedded software data driven test automation framework in Linux/ Python. Designed test cases and authored test plans.  ? Experienced in monitoring, developing and transforming data using SQL Server Integration Service (SSIS) and SQL Server Analysis Service (SSAS).  ? Debugging and testing of the applications & fine-tuning performance.  ? Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  Environments: Python, Django, CSV, XML, JSON, AWS, RDBMS, PyCharm, JIRA, Git, GitLab, SVN, REST, SIT. Python Developer Illumina, CA September 2011 to May 2013 Illumina, Inc. is an American company that develops, manufactures and markets integrated systems for the analysis of genetic variation and biological function. It provides a line of products.    Responsibilities:  ? Worked on coding, developing and designing application in Python using Django MVC.  ? Created entire application using Python, Django, MySQL and Linux.  ? For design and development of the system we used OOD concepts.  ? Involved in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM process including Sprint planning, backlog grooming, Daily Stand ups, Code review, Gant Chart.  ? Developed views and templates with python and Django's view controller and templating language to create.  ? Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  ? Developed tools using python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  ? Responsible for Design and maintenance of databases using Python. Developed Python based APIs by using Flask, SQL Alchemy and PostgreSQL.  ? Created Workbooks and dashboards for analyzing statistical billing data using Tableau 9.0.  ? Developed the presentation layer using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery and AJAX and Used jQuery libraries for all client-side JavaScript manipulations.  ? Handled potential points of failure through error handling and communication of failure.  ? Exposure on Multi-Threading factory to distribute learning process back-testing and the into various worker processes.  ? Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  ? Exposure on Multi-Threading factory to distribute learning process back-testing and the into various worker processes.  ? Developed ColdFusion Components, custom tags and modified CF Objects.  ? Experience in managing MongoDB environment from availability, performance and scalability perspectives.  ? Built various graphs for business decision making using Python Matplotlib library.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django, HTML, CSS, Javascript, MySQL, Shell scripting, jQuery, Angular, Eclipse, JSON, DOM, Github, PHP,Bootstrap, Tableau, Apache web server, Flask, wireshark. Python Developer Integraph September 2009 to August 2011 Integraph is a Information Technology service company, offering many services to the customers.    Responsibilities:  ? Wrote Python routines to log into the websites and fetch data for selected options.  ? Developed rich user interface using CSS, HTML, JavaScript and jQuery.  ? Database is created using MySQL and wrote many queries to extract the data from the database.  ? Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework on MySQL  ? Worked on HTML, CSS, JavaScript,Git, REST API, Mongo DB, IntelliJ IDEA.  ? Wrote Python Script to parse XML documents and load all the data from the available database.  ? Used CherryPy, Django, SQL Alchemy for the backend development of web-services.  ? Cassandra schema is designed for the APIs.  ? Worked on Tableau reports and resulting reports of the application.  ? Developed and maintained various automated web tools for reducing manual effort and increasing efficiency of the Global Shipping Team.  ? For the application development Django Framework is used.  ? Worked on csv and excel file formats to read and write the data.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.4, Windows, Linux, MySQL, CSS, Apache web server, HTML, JavaScript, XML, MongoDB. Education Bachelor's Skills C++, DJANGO, Git, HTML, JAVASCRIPT Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILL:    Languages: Python,C++, Java,SQL, Shell Script,ReactJS, Node.js, Spring, PHP, Hibernate, Struts.  Frameworks: Django, Pyramid, Flask, CSS Bootstrap.  Technologies: HTML, CSS, Javascript, jQuery, XML, DOM, CSV, AJAX, Angular JS, Excel, Text.  Methodologies: Agile, Waterfall and SCRUM.  Databases: MYSQL, PostgreSQL, Oracle non-SQL database MongoDB.  Version Controls: Git and SVN.  Python libraries: Pandas, Numpy, Matplotlib, Pytables, SciPhy, Flask, Beautiful soup, Bootstrap, jQuery.  Web Servers: Apache Webserver, IIS, HTTP server, Web Logic, JBoss  Operating System: Linux, UNIX, Mac and windows.  Reporting tools: Tableau, MS-Word and MS-Powerpoint  Cloud Technology: Cloud Formation, EC2 and AWS