Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - State Street North Quincy, MA • Around 7 years of experience as a Web/Application Developer and coding with analytical programming using Python.  • Experience in analysis, design, and development, testing, implementation and maintenance of various web applications using Python and Django.  • Experience with Django and Flask a high-level Python Web framework.  • Experienced with full Software Development Life-Cycle (SDLC), architecting scalable platforms, Object Oriented Programming, Database Design and Agile Methodologies.  • Experience with Requests, Numpy, Scipy, Matplotlib, and Pandas python libraries during development lifecycle.  • Experience with automation/configuration management using tools like Ansible, Puppet, Chef and SaltStack.  • Knowledge on Open Stack Environment Implementation and the architecture using API to integrate between multiple utilities (storage, Monitoring, computing, Authentication & Authorization.  • Worked with python libraries from Python Package Index (PyPI).  • Experience with Jenkins and Enterprise GitHub. Worked on Jenkins continuous integration tool for deployment of project.  • Experienced in using MVC/MVT architecture using RESTful, Soap Web services and high-level Python Web frameworks like Django and Flask.  • Experience in end to end design and deploy rich Graphic visualizations with Drill Down and Drop down menu option and Parameterized using Tableau.  • Worked on Loading and transforming large sets of structured, semi structured and unstructured data using Hadoop, Bigdata concepts.  • Proficient in SQL databases MSSQL Server, MySQL (RDBMS), Oracle DB, Postgres and MongoDB.  • Working experience on JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web Services (AWS) Such as EC2, Lambda, ELB, SQS (Queuing Services), VPC and cloud watch.  • Working knowledge on Kubernetes to deploy scale, load balance, and manage Docker containers with multiple namespace versions.  • Having experienced in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL, PL/SQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Basic understanding of protocols/technologies like HTTP, LDAP, JDBC, SSL, Servlet/JSP, SQL, HTML, XML  • Knowledge in Data mining and Data warehousing using ETL Tools and Proficient in Building reports and dashboards in Tableau (BI Tool).  • Experience in implementing PEP8 coding standards.  • Familiar with Agile and Waterfall development methodologies. Followed Agile Methodologies (Scrum) involved in daily stand-up meetings.    TECHNOLOGY AND TOOLS: Work Experience Sr. Python Developer State Street - North Quincy, MA February 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed the server module and resolved issues and responsible for its enhancements.  • Architected and developed Python and Django for the backend development and front-end application using React, Webpack, Redux, and ES6/7 and PostgreSQL for the database.  • Worked on Django ORM module for signing complex queries.  • Defined different Django API profiling techniques for faster rendering information.  • Used Ansible, Vagrant, and Docker for managing the application environments.  • Worked with Splunk for testing the performance and debugging server level problems.  • Developing Python Framework using Django to perform scan software unit monitoring.  • Designed the front end of the application using Python, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON and Query.  • Used Django-celery with the help of RabbitMQ message broker for large processing.  • Utilized the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Implemented various Validation Controls for form validation and implemented custom validation controls using Object Oriented JavaScript.  • Used React JS in components like JSX, creating React components, Virtual DOM, React Props, Lifecycle methods, working with the React States and Events.  • Developed Restful Micro Services using Flask and Django and deployed on AWS servers using EBS and EC2.  • Developed views and templates with Django view controller and template to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Worked on Django and RabbitMQ queues.  • Actively involved in analysis of the system requirements specifications and involved in client interaction during requirements specifications.  • Performed Unit testing, Integration Testing.  • Involved in designing mobile search application system requirements and coded back-end and front-end in Django/ Python.  • Carried out various mathematical operations for calculation purpose using Python libraries numpy.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL with complete data integrity.  • Used Circle CI for continuous integration and delivery platform over GIT.  • Used Django Migrations for designing and expanding of the database.  • Automated most of the daily task using python scripting.  • Involved in the CI/CD pipeline management for managing the weekly releases.  • Worked on Jira for managing the tasks and improving the individual performance.  • Built various graphs for business decision making using Python matplotlib library.    Environment: Python 2.6/2.7, JavaScript, Django Framework 1.3, CSS, SQL, MySQL, LAMP, JQuery, Adobe Dreamweaver, Apache web server. GitHub, Ansible, HTML5/CSS, PostgreSQL, Amazon Web Service (AWS), S3, EC2, EBS, PyCharm, Microsoft Visual Code, Linux, Shell Scripting, JIRA. Python Developer GE Energy - Houston, TX July 2017 to January 2018 Responsibilities:  • Involved in software development life cycle (SDLC) of tracking the requirements, gathering, analysis, detailed design, development, system testing and user acceptance testing.  • Actively involved in developing the methods for Create, Read, Update and Delete (CRUD) in Active Record.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Involved in designing user interactive web pages as the front end part of the web application using various web technologies like HTML, JavaScript, Angular JS, JQuery, AJAX and implemented CSS for better appearance and feel.  • Knowledge of cross-browser and cross-platform development of HTML and CSS based websites in Windows like IE 6, IE 7, IE 8 and FF.  • Used AJAX to modify small portions of the web pages by sending a request to the server avoiding the need of reloading the entire web page  • Implemented and modified various SQL queries and Functions, Cursors and Triggers as per the client requirements.  • Managed code versioning with GitHub, Bit Bucket and deployment to staging and production servers.  • Implemented MVC architecture in developing the web application with the help of Django framework.  • Used Celery as task queue and RabbitMQ, Redis as messaging broker to execute asynchronous tasks.  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture.  • Involved in code reviews using GitHub pull requests, reducing bugs, improving code quality, and increasing knowledge sharing  • Implemented monitoring and established best practices around using elastic search.  • Experience using Content Management Systems: WordPress and Django CMS plugins.  • Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users  • Performed testing using Django's Test Module.  • Developed SQL Queries, Stored Procedures, and Triggers Using Oracle, SQL, PL/SQL.  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Install and configuring monitoring scripts for AWS EC2 instances.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.7, HTML5, CSS, XML, KML, MySQL, JavaScript, Angular JS, JQuery, CSS Bootstrap, RESTful, MS SQL Server, MongoDB, Elastic Search, Ubuntu server, Windows 12 Server, Amazon s3, Jenkins, Map Box, My SQL, Mongo DB, GitHub, Bit Bucket, Linux, and Windows. Python developer Rockwell Collins - Cedar Rapids, IA September 2016 to June 2017 Responsibilities:  • Worked on development and enhancement of automated tools for testing, integration and global application development.  • Work with team of developers on python applications for RISK management.  • Held overall responsibility of coordination of implementations of software builds and releases  • Provided analytics to help determine optimal way to assemble releases  • Tracked any additions, deletions or change in scope on the published release plan including efficient tracking of defects.  • Built the release plan roadmap and keep maintained for communication  • Worked on UI modification using HTML, CSS.  • Developed Application logic using Python 2.7 and Django framework.  • Wrote backend data access Logic using MYSQL and SQL Server  • Used Web Services to extract Supplier inventory for various high end items.  • Integrated the application with different internal system.  • Designed and implemented a distributed, QA infrastructure for automated testing of a multi process software product.  • Involved in Unit, integration and smoke testing.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed entire front end and back end modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Designed and developed data center management system using MySQL.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using python.  • Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.8, MySQL, Windows, Linux, HTML, CSS, JQuery, JavaScript, Apache, Linux. Python Developer ISpace October 2015 to August 2016 Responsibilities:  • Automation for execution of tests in batch using Shell scripting in python.  • Development of data structures, XML parsing using Python.  • Usage of advance features like pickle/unpick in python for sharing the information across the applications.  • Used Django database API's to access database objects.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Generated graphical reports using python package Numpy and matPlotLib.  • Representation of the system in hierarchy form by defining the components, subcomponents using Python and developed set of library functions over the system based on the user needs.  • Development of Python APIs to dump the array structures in the Processor at the failure point for debugging.  • Wrote programs to parse excel file and process many user data with data validations.  • Create Cassandra database to handle the user's data (server-client).  • Developed front end page using HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using python.  • Developing and maintenance of the tool that abstracts the information for the user.  • Implemented multiple high performances MongoDB.  • Utilized various IDEs and internal debug tools during debugging.  • Analyzing the data in design database.  • Used SVN for version control.  • Maintaining the data with different levels of access privileges.    Environment: Python, Django, Linux, HTML, CSS, MongoDB, Cassandra, Web services, SVN. Python Developer Nivisol Technologies May 2012 to September 2015 Responsibilities:  • Designed and maintained databases using Python and developed Python based API (RESTful Web Service) using Flask, SQL Alchemy and PostgreSQL.  • Designed and created backend data access modules using PL/SQL stored procedures and Oracle.  • Designed and developed components using Python with Django framework. Implemented code in Python to retrieve and manipulate data.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation  • Created data access modules in python.  • Used functional programming, data aggregation with pagination, and parsing using Jackson library.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Developed multi-threaded standalone app in Python and PHP to view performance  • Used PySpark Data frame for creation of table and performing analytics over it.  • Participated in developing view pages using HTML5, CSS3, and Tag Libraries.  • Actively involved in production support and resolved the production issues depending upon priority of issues.    Environment: Python, Django, PYQT, JQuery, DOM, JSON, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, JSON, Rest, PHP, SVN, MY SQL, Windows and LINUX. Education Bachelor's Skills .NET (Less than 1 year), Apache (2 years), AWS (1 year), CSS (7 years), databases (3 years), HTML (7 years), Integration (2 years), INTEGRATOR (2 years), JavaScript. (7 years), Jira (1 year), Linux (7 years), MongoDB (1 year), MS SQL Server (1 year), MySQL (2 years), Oracle (4 years), PL/SQL. (4 years), Python (7 years), SQL (6 years), SQL Server (1 year), web server. (1 year) Additional Information Operating Systems: Unix, Linux, Ubuntu, Solaris, Windows and MacOS  Programming Languages: Python, PL/SQL, Java, CSS,HTML,JavaScript  Databases: Oracle 10/11g, MySQL, SQL Server and PostgreSQL, MongoDB  Tools: PyCharm, PL/SQL Developer, Spyder, Visual Studio, Visio, IBM Websphere,  Integration Tools: Jenkins and Web Builder  Message Broker: RabbitMQ, IBM MQ  Web Server: Apache Webserver  Defect Tracking: JIRA and VersionOne  Cloud services: AWS, Microsoft Azure