Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - CBI Laboratories Inc Fort Worth, TX • Around 7 Years of experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Management and Implementation of various stand-alone, client-server enterprise applications.  • Good experience in Python, Django, Zope, Bottle.py, Pyramid Framework.  • Working Knowledge of Pandas, Numpy, Scipy. Good working knowledge of Deep Learning Python libraries.  • Experience of software development in Python (libraries used: libraries- BeautifulSoup, numpy, scipy, matplotlib, python-twitter, OpenCV, Pandas dataframe, networkx, urllib2, MySQLdb for database connectivity) and IDEs - sublime text, Spyder, pycharm, emacs.  • Having experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Experienced in MVW frameworks like Django, Angular.js, Java Script, JQuery and Node.js.  • Proficient in Front end development experience using HTML, XML, CSS, JQuery, JSON and Javascript, CSS, Bootstrap.  • Expert knowledge of and experience in Object oriented Design and Programming concepts.  • Experience object oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, C++ and PHP.  • Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, Python/PHP) Architecture.  • Experience with JSPm Servlets, Web Services (SOAP, REST) and Tomcat. Effective in executing multiple tasks and assignments ahead of schedule. Created and maintained effective budgets.  • Proficient in SQL databases MySQL, Oracle and no-SQL databases MongoDB, Cassandra, Sqlite 3.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Excellent experience with Python development under Linux OS (Debian, Ubuntu, SUSE Linux, RedHat Linux, Fedora).  • Good knowledge of server Apache Tomcat, Web logic.  • Hands on SVN, Git, JIRA, Bugzilla, Axosoft, Amazon EC2/S3.  • Experience in leading multiple efforts to build Hadoop platforms, maximizing business value by combining data science with big data.  • Import the historical data from RDBMS into HDFS using Sqoop.  • Experience in installing, configuring and using eco-System components like Hadoop MapReduce, HDFS, Hbase, Pig, Flume. Hands-on experience in Unix and Linux Kernels.  • Ability to manage (Multiple) project tasks with changing priorities and tight deadlines. Ability to work well in a team. Open to Team related tasks, team meetings, team interaction and conference calls.  • Demonstrated ability to work well with a wide variety of people at various levels, foster cooperation and collaboration among individuals in the work unit, help team resolve conflicts constructively and ability and willingness to communicate when help is needed.  • A Self starter with a positive attitude, willingness to learn new concepts and acceptance of challenges. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer CBI Laboratories Inc - Fort Worth, TX March 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Used Django framework for application development.  • Developed user interface using, CSS, HTML, JavaScript and JQuery& Ruby on rails.  • Assisted in reduction of cost and optimization of supplier selection for the CRM Applications.  • Ensured high quality data collection and maintaining the integrity of the data.  • Cleaned data and processed third party spending data into maneuverable deliverables within specific formats with Excel macros and python libraries.  • Used several python libraries like wxPython, numPY and matPlotLib.  • Involved in environment, code installation as well as the SVN implementation.  • Build all database mapping classes using Django models and cassandra.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code  • This project also used other technologies like JQuery for java script manipulations, bootstrap for the front-end html layout.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Developed, tested and debugged software tools utilized by clients and internal customers.  • Coded test programs and evaluated existing engineering processes.  • Designed and configured database and back end applications and programs.  • Performed research to explore and identify new technological platforms.  • Collaborated with internal teams to convert end user feedback into meaningful and improved solutions.  • Resolved ongoing problems and accurately documented progress of a project.    Environment: Python, Scipy, Pandas, BugZilla, SVN, C++, Java, JQuery, MySQL, Linux, Eclipse, Shell Scripting, HTML5/CSS, Apache RUBY, Cassandra, Red hat Linux. Python Developer Credit Suisse - Morrisville, NC April 2016 to February 2018 Responsibilities:  • Analyzed and Designed application and created UI using JavaScript and HTML5/CSS. Implemented business logic using Python/Django.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Created backend database T-SQL stored procedures and Jasper Reports.  • Worked with millions of database records on a daily basis, finding common errors and bad data patterns and fixing them.  • Exported/Imported data between different data sources using SQL Server Management Studio.  • Maintained program libraries, users' manuals and technical documentation.  • Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Thorough knowledge in various front end tools like HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript, XML, JQuery, Angular JS, and AJAX  • Hands-on experience in writing and reviewing requirements, architecture documents, test plans, design documents, quality analysis and audits.  • Built various graphs for business decision-making using Python Matplotlib library.  • Fetched twitter feeds for certain important keyword using python-twitter library.  • Used Python Library Beautiful Soup for web Scrapping.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Deployed with Fabric on AWS on EC2 instance with Postgres RDS and S3 file storage.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  • Created most important Business Rules which are useful for the scope of project and needs of customers  • Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  • Work with team of developers on python applications for RISK management.  • Taken part in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Implementation, Testing and support. Created project designs utilizing MVC architecture components.  • Used Pandas library for statistics Analysis and added support for open stock.  • Created most important Business Rules which are useful for the scope of project and needs of customers.  • Designed the architecture of the hardware environments and methodology of the code  • Experienced in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM Process and added unit tests and improved existing ones.  • Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all of its commands.  • Refactored existing project to make it more Restful and thread-safe.  • Designed Restful XML web service for handling AJAX requests.    Environment: Python, Django, HTML5/CSS, SVN, UNIX, T-SQL, Jasper, Reports, JavaScript, Eclipse, Linux, Shell Scripting, RESTful, MVC3 Amazon AWS S3 CLI, Amazon BotoPil. Python Developer Parker Drilling Co - Houston, TX January 2014 to March 2016 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Developed user interface using CSS, HTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Wrote Python modules to extract/load asset data from the MySQL source database.  • Designed and implemented a dedicated MYSQL database server to drive the webapps and report on daily progress. Used Django framework for application development.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Created entire application using Python, Django, MySQL and Linux.  • Utilize PyUnit, the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications.  • Enhanced existing automated solutions, such as the Inquiry Tool for automated Asset Department reporting and added new features and fixed bugs.  • Created database using MySQL, wrote several queries to extract/store data.  • Developed, tested and debugged software tools utilized by clients and internal customers.  • Coded test programs and evaluated existing engineering processes.  • Designed and configured database and back end applications and programs.  • Created a Git repository and added the project to GitHub.  • Performed research to explore and identify new technological platforms.  • Collaborated with internal teams to convert end user feedback into meaningful and improved solutions.  • Resolved ongoing problems and accurately documented progress of a project.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Worked with millions of database records on a daily basis, finding common errors and bad data patterns and fixing them. Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  • Exported/Imported data between different data sources using SQL Server Management Studio.  • Maintained program libraries, users' manuals and technical documentation.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL db package.  • Carried out various mathematical operations for calculation purpose using python libraries.  • Built various graphs for business decision making using Python matplotlib library.  • Fetched twitter feeds for certain important keyword using python-twitter library.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.    Environment: Python, Django, HTML5/CSS, MS SQL Server, MySQL, JavaScript, Eclipse, Linux, Shell Scripting, JQuery, GitHub. Python Developer Cisco Systems Inc - San Jose, CA September 2012 to December 2013 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Participated in the complete SDLC process.  • Developed user interface using CSS, HTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Wrote Python modules to extract/load asset data from the MySQL source database.  • Designed and implemented a dedicated MySQL database server to drive the web apps and report on daily progress.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Utilized PyUnit, the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications.  • Enhanced existing automated solutions, such as the Inquiry Tool for Automated Asset Department Reporting and added new features and fixed bugs.  • Developed, tested and debugged software tools utilized by clients and internal customers.  • Coded test programs and evaluated existing engineering processes.  • Designed and configured database and back end applications and programs.  • Created a Git repository and added the project to GitHub.  • Collaborated with internal teams to convert end user feedback into meaningful and improved solutions.  • Resolved ongoing problems and accurately documented progress of project.    Environment: Python, Django, HTML5/CSS, MySQL, JavaScript, Eclipse, Linux, Shell Scripting, JQuery, GitHub, Angular.JS, JIRA. Education Bachelor's Links http://Bottle.py