Sr. Python developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">developer</span> Sr. Python developer - Whole Foods Austin, TX • 6+ years of experience as an Application Developer and coding with analytical programming using Python, Django.  • Experience in object-oriented programming (OOP) concepts like Multi-Threading, Exception Handling and Collections using Python.  • Proficient in SQL databases MYSQL, Oracle.  • Good knowledge in maintaining various version control systems such as GIT, SVN.  • Having experienced in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL, PL/SQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Experience in working with various Python Integrated Development Environments like IDLE, PyCharm, Atom, Eclipse, PyDev and Sublime Text.  • Good experience in software development using Python and using its libraries and modules like NumPy, Pandas, Pickle, Jupyter, Python-twitter, Matplotlib, urllib2 for data analytics and rapid development.  • Experience with the Python Scientific Stack (SciPy).  • Involved in Unit testing and Integration testing of the code using PyTest.  • Proficient in performing Data analysis and Data Visualization using Python libraries.  • Experience in full software development lifecycle (SDLC), Agile/Scrum Methodology with high quality deliverables delivered on-time.  • Experience in UNIX/Linux shell scripting for job scheduling, batch-job scheduling, automating batch programs, forking and cloning jobs.  • Exposure to CI/CD tools - Jenkins for Continuous Integration, Ansible for continuous deployment.  • Hands on experience in installing, configuring and using Hadoop ecosystem components like HDFS, MapReduce Programming, Hive, Yarn, Sqoop, Hbase, Impala, Oozie, Kafka, Spark.  • In depth understanding of Spark Architecture including spark core, Spark SQL, Data Frames.  • Experienced in writing MapReduce programs in python to process large datasets using Map and Reduce Tasks.  • Experienced in requirement gathering/analysis, design, development, testing, and production rollover of reporting and analysis projects.  • Hands on experience on Tableau Desktop version 10.2, Tableau Reader and Tableau Server.  • Produced attractive visuals/dashboards to convey the story inside the data.  • Built dashboards using techniques for guided analytics, interactive dashboard design, and visual best practices.  • To achieve Continuous Delivery goal on high scalable environment, used Docker coupled with load-balancing tool.  • Virtualized the servers using Docker for the test environments and dev-environments needs, also configuration automation using Docker containers.  • Also involved in administration tasks such as publishing workbooks, setting permissions, managing ownerships, providing access to the users and adding them to the specific group and scheduled instances for reports in Tableau Server.  • Worked in all phases of BW/BI full life cycles including analysis, design, development, testing, deployment, post-production support/maintenance, documentation and end-user training. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Python developer Whole Foods - Austin, TX January 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Used UML Rational Rose to develop Use-case, Class and Object diagrams for OOA/OOD techniques.  • Built database model, Views and API's using Python for interactive web-based solutions.  • Placed data into JSON files using Python to test Django websites. Used Python scripts to update the content in database and manipulate files.  • Developed web-based application using Django framework with Python concepts.  • Generated Python Django forms to maintain the record of online users.  • Used Django API's to access the database.  • Involved in Python OOD code for quality, logging, monitoring, and debugging code optimization.  • Skilled in using Collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  • Developed responsive UI using HTML5/CSS3, AngularJS and JavaScript.  • Developed database layer including Tables and Stored procedures in MYSQL.  • Used JSON based and RESTful API for information extraction  • Worked with Marketing and Sales teams to enhance applications to suit their needs  • Debug application deployments on multiple environments.  • Wrote Python modules to view and connect the Apache Cassandra instance.  • Created Unit test/ regression test framework for working/new code.  • Installed and maintained web servers Tomcat and Apache HTTP in UNIX.  • Utilized standard Python modules such as CSV, itertools and pickle for development.  • Developed efficient Angular.js for client web-based application.  • Responsible for designing, developing, testing, deploying and maintaining the web application.  • Designed and developed the UI for the website with HTML, XHTML, CSS, Java Script and AJAX.  • Used the Python's modules numpy, matplotlib, etc. for generating complex graphical data, creation of histograms etc.  • Developed and designed automation framework using Python and Shell scripting.  • Involved in debugging and troubleshooting issues and fixed many bugs in two of the main applications which are main source of data for customers and internal customer service team.  • Implemented SOAP/RESTful web services in JSON format.  • Associated with debugging the applications monitored on JIRA using Agile methodology.  • Attended many day-to-day meetings with developers and users and performed QA testing on the application. Involved in working with Python open stock API's.  • Developed Spark Code using Python for faster processing of data.  • Responsible for managing large databases using MySQL.  • Wrote and executed various MySQL database queries from Python -MySQL connector and MySQL db package.  • Experience in using containers like Docker.    Environment: Python 2.7,3.3, Django 1.4, HTML, CSS, AJAX, Tomcat, Apache HTTP, Angular.js, JSON, Restful, XML, JavaScript, OOD, Shell Scripting, GIT Hub, MYSQL, Cassandra, JIRA. Python Developer JP Morgan Chase - Houston, TX July 2016 to December 2017 Responsibilities:  • Developing backend components to improve overall performance of the application.  • Improving the functionality of existing systems.  • Collecting the data using a scripting language such as SQL.  • Prepared the scripts using python which will adjust and organize the views used for better analysis of the data.  • Explore and analyze data sets produced as data frames from the python scripts with tools like Excel.  • Visualizing the data insights and communicate the analysis and findings achieved to teams across the organization of JPMorgan Chase.  • Recognizing and adopting the best practices in reporting and analysis like data integrity, test design, analysis, validation and documentation.  • Creating the data sets for the data model prepared by Ingestion and Enrichment API'S.  • Developed a Python script for automation of the process of triggering and ingestion using python modules such as Pandas, Pyspark, functions, decorators, generators and data structures.  • Creating different data frames by using python pandas for validating the results of different scenarios.  • Developed a Python Script for converting the Parquet files produced by Hadoop Cluster to dashboard readable files by using Pandas Data frames.  • Developed an UI Navigation bar to view all the dashboards by using JavaScript.  • Developed effective dashboards according to the requirements of the clients by using Tableau Desktop.  • Experience on testing the dev and QA servers and used scrum methodologies in software development lifecycle.  • Understand the requirements to plan, define and clarify dashboard goals, objectives.  • Worked with cross functional team and business user to develop Business requirement document (BRD), define key performance indicators (KPIs) and identify data sources.  • Hands-on experience in setting up new task and troubleshooting existing task setup and other issues.  • Preparing Dashboards using calculations, parameters, calculated fields, groups, sets and hierarchies in Tableau.  • Creating users, groups, projects, Data connections, settings as tableau administrator.  • Used Python to place data into JSON files for testing Django Websites.  • Used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Used the Django Framework to develop the application.  • Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users.  • Used Django APIs for database access.  • Wrote a Python module to connect and view the status of an Apache Cassandra instance.  • Used Python unit and functional testing modules such as unit test, unittest2, mock, and custom frameworks in-line with Agile Software Development methodologies.  • Built multifunction readmission reports using python pandas and Django framework.  • Implemented unit testing, regression testing on the developed reports.  • Used Agile Methodology and SCRUM Process.  • Participated in requirement gathering and analysis phase of the project in documenting the business requirements by conducting workshops/meetings with various business users.  • Implemented web applications in Flask and spring frameworks following MVC architecture.  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation.  • Hands on experience with bug tracking tools such as JIRA and Bugzilla.  • Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis.  • Code review using GitHub, testing, fixing of the bugs and coding modifications. Wrote unit test cases for testing tools.    Environment: Python, Django, Web Framework, Abacus Studio, Hue, Impala, Tableau Desktop 10.2, Tableau Server, Linux, Erwin Data Modeler, Visual Studio, Intel IJ, Javascript, JQuery, AJAX, JSON, Sublime Text, Jira, GitHub, Bitbucket, Agile, JSP, Xml. Python Developer Thomson Reuters - Carrollton, TX January 2015 to June 2016 Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed customer preferences portal in Python using Django framework.  • Extensive use of Python / Django Framework for developing some backend components.  • Used secured web services for communication and integrations with other enterprise applications.  • Achieved business process automation via applications developed using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Used Numpy, Scipy, Matplotlib libraries for n-dimensional representation of data and plotting graphs.  • Analyzed the code completely and have reduced the Python code redundancy to an optimal level.  • Improved the website part of the application using Django, and REST API.  • Implemented Ajax calls to get, post, delete REST API calls for upload and delete files.  • Created custom user with overriding key field and adding more fields other than that provided by the Django out-of-box features.  • Customized user registration with two steps (in-active user creation and email activation).  • Designed User Interface to leverage HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Enhanced the design of user interface using Bootstrap framework for Django.  • Worked on writing and as well as read data from CSV and excel file formats.  • Implemented web scraping using Python's Beautiful Soup library.  • Built and deployed Docker containers to break up monolithic app into microservices, improving developer workflow, increasing scalability, and optimizing speed.  • Created a Continuous Delivery process to include support building of Docker Images and publish into a private repository.  • Created Containers in Docker.  • Performed Data framing, Data Analysis, and Data representation using Python Pandas.  • Involved in Sprint planning sessions and participated in the daily Agile SCRUM meetings.  • Conducted scrum as part of the SCRUM Master role.  • Fixed existing user interface bugs with CSS and JavaScript functionalities.  • Wrote python scripts to perform CRUD operations on MySQL database.  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile).  • Good Experience in error and exceptional handling.  • Proven ability in working with Shell scripting for designing automation framework.  • Experience in writing test plans, test cases, test specifications and test coverage.  • Involved in unit testing using pytest.  • Performed QA testing on the application.  • Worked on Jenkins continuous integration tool for deployment of project. Deployed the project into Jenkins using GIT version control system.  • Held meetings with design team and worked for the entire project with limited help from the design team.  • Helped various teams to deploy the application on GCP, IBM soft layer and Microsoft Azure.  • Managed Build, Reporting, and documentation using Maven.  • Maintaining release boards in JIRA and ensuring release velocity.    Environment: Python, Django, Django REST framework, Bootstrap Framework, Nodejs, Jenkins, GIT, Ruby, Jira, Microsoft AZURE. Python Developer Altran - Norcross, GA July 2013 to December 2014 Responsibilities:  • Developed Python Django forms to record data and the Login module page for users.  • Designed email marketing campaigns and created interactive forms that saved data into database using Django Framework.  • Worked in Test driven development with Behave in Python.  • Creating Behave scripts using Gherkin syntax.  • Used collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different your defined objects.  • Wrote Python routines to log into the websites and fetch data for selected options.  • Performed efficient delivery of code based on principles of Test-Driven Development (TDD) and continuous integration to keep in line with Agile Software Methodology principles.  • Implemented a login module for user, registration of the products, placing the order and tracking the order.  • Improving the performance while processing data by modifying functions, queries, cursors, triggers and stored procedures for MySQL database.  • Worked on Unit testing, Integration testing and Web application testing.  • Code review using GitHub, testing, fixing of the bugs and coding modifications.  • Performed research to explore and identify new technological platforms.  • Collaborated with internal teams to convert end user feedback into meaningful and improved solutions.  • Embedded AJAX in UI to update small portions of the web page avoiding the need to reload the entire page.  • Wrote unit test cases for testing tools.  • Enhanced existing automated solutions, such as the Inquiry Tool for automated Asset Department reporting and added new features and fixed bugs.  • Developed views and templates with python3.6.1 and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Participated in the complete SDLC process and used PHP to develop website functionality.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS, BIG DATA and JavaScript.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using python on Django Web Framework.  • Designed and developed Use-Case, Class and Object Diagrams using UML Rational Rose for Object Oriented Analysis/Object Oriented Design techniques.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL. Built application logic using python.  • Used Django APIs for database access.  • Participated in requirement gathering and worked closely with the architect in designing and modeling.  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures on MYSQL.  • Developed shopping cart for Library and integrated web services to access the payment (E-commerce).  • Effectively communicated with the external vendors to resolve queries.  • Used GIT for the version control. Application Developer Bayer Corporation - Pittsburgh, PA June 2012 to June 2013 Responsibilities:  • Led four application development projects, and act as a subject matter expert (SME) while administrated all phases of software development life cycle (SDLC).  • Designed, developed, and implemented four n-tire/multi-tier applications - three web based, and one desktop based. Developed a billing solution, a payment tracking system, and an inventory management system.  • For web applications development projects, used PHP as the development language. Used HTML and CSS for UI design, JavaScript for application functionality and MySQL for supporting database server.  • For desktop-based application development, used C# .Net as the development language, and Oracle as the database server. Wrote code in SQL Programming for database queries.  • Published sales and production reports monthly and offered PowerPoint presentations to several teams like marketing team, production team, and finance team.  • Collected sales, production, inventory data from various sources such as sales directory, production data and stored them in MS Excel spreadsheets. Analyzed medium-to-high volume production and sales data with MS Excel and published monthly reports.    Environments: JavaScript, HTML, CSS, PHP, MySQL, Agile methodology, SQL programming, and MS Visual Studio. Skills Visual studio, C++, Django, Git, Html, Javascript, Jenkins, Json, Python, Flask, Matplotlib, Numpy, Pandas, Svn, Xml, Ajax, Css, Jira, Tableau desktop, Tableau server Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  • Programming Languages: Python, C, C++, Shell programming  • Web Technologies: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, XML, JSON  • Frameworks: Django, Flask, Pyramid, Web2py  • Python Libraries: NumPy, SciPy, Pandas, Jupyter, Matplotlib, Urllib2, Python-twitter  • Version Control: Git, GitHub, SVN, Bitbucket  • Deployment Tools: Jenkins  • Operating Systems: UNIX, Linux, Windows, Mac OS  • IDE's/DEV Tools: PyCharm, Eclipse, Sublime Text, Visual Studio, JIRA, Putty, Intel IJ  • Methodologies: Agile, Scrum  • BI Tools: Tableau Desktop 10.2, Tableau Desktop 2018.1, Tableau Server