Python/Django Developer <span class="hl">Python</span>/Django <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python/Django Developer - ALK Abello New York, NY Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python/Django Developer ALK Abello - Port Washington, NY January 2018 to Present The Project was developed using Python technologies as a back end and front-end was developed using Angular, and deployment was done over to AWS EC2. The system consisted of an end-to-end manufacturing management application which works independently if needed. The first module contained an inventory system which allows the system to perform several tasks such as Inventory real-time tracking, Re-conciliation, Yearly Count, Track returns, etc. The second module was used by the Compounding department to record every aspect of the manufacturing process as per the regulations. The final module was used for testing, storing test results into database, creating new tests, validating tests, and running diagnostics. I was responsible for the development of Inventory module primarily along with other modules as when needed.    Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Involved in analysis and design of supply-management application and participated in requirements gathering and worked with architect in designing and modeling the application.  ? Built back-end of inventory management application with Django Web framework, creating a connection to a MySQL database and querying inventory data to store and handle medicine raw materials, reagents, and supplies.  ? Created, Deleted, Updated Models, Views and Templates as needed using Python and Django to connect the SQL database to templates.  ? Migrated from SQLite database to PostgreSQL and created query programs including SELECT, UPDATE, ORDER BY, INSERT, and GROUP BY, PostgreSQL had the proper security settings for a production environment.  ? Made extensive use of Python modules like Collections, Requests, BeautifulSoup, Matplotlib, Re, OS to extend Python's default functionality, make HTTP request, scrape data, and visualize it.  ? Created dynamic, validated forms using Django built-in forms and JavaScript to receive user input and ensure proper data format was sent to the database.  ? Consumed third-party APIs using python HTTP Requests to import supply information from suppliers.  ? Made use of AWS S3 buckets and Bitnami virtual machine to both store and extract documents/data and test the application.  ? Responded to client's needs and suggested/implemented agreed changes.  ? Used Python and participated in entire SDLC to build application that replaces SAP functionality.  ? Customized Django built-in forms using ModelForms, Forms, Form validation to improve the functionality of the application.  ? Created custom exceptions from Python's BaseException class in Python to create specific errors for users to handle.  ? Collaborated with testing team and responded to concerns and bugs using JIRA.  ? Modeled and scraped data as needed using BeautifulSoup during investigations of new features or issues.  Environment: Python, Django REST API, Pharm, VS Code, Jupyter Notebook, MySQL, SQL, CRUD, AWS, EC2, S3, JIRA, GIT, PyUnit Python Developer One Blood Inc - Miami, FL November 2016 to January 2018 I worked as part of the development team improving their system of samples and patient records. Their system was outdated and needed to be updated to comply with new federal regulations. Major technologies used were Python Django Web Framework and Angular for the front-end. The system contained separate modules for Tests, Patients, Samples, and protocols.    Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Participated in the SDLC by working with team on designing, building and testing Donor Portal application to increase donor participation and accuracy of tests.  ? Wrote multiple Django Querysets/SQL Queries using the ORM system and MySQL Workbench to create user button commands to extract donor and testing data from the management system.  ? Utilized MVT paradigm to build a responsive and secure application using Django Web Framework. Using Models to create database tables, Views to process and display donor, blood sample and testing data and Templates to display on the application.  ? Worked with large MySQL tables and data using queries like SELECT, UPDATE, ORDER BY, INSERT, and GROUP BY to create views and organize information displayed on the application.  ? Maintained program library and technical documentation adding new features and removing as needed.  ? Performed troubleshooting, fixed and modified code to remove bugs using unit tests and PyUnit.  ? Worked with development team using Agile Methodology.  ? Performed data analysis using Pandas and related libraries like NumPy, SciPy to find patterns in blood types and donor information to improve donations.  ? Added unit tests and improved existing ones using unit test module.  ? Deployed application using AWS EC2 and all its components utilizing existing user groups, VPCs, and load balancing settings and modifying and creating settings where appropriate.  ? Wrote scalable, highly reusable code using PEP 8 principles so current and future colleagues can read, understand and use the code.  Environment: Python, Django, Flask, Angular, REST API, Pharm, VS Code, Jupyter Notebook, MySQL, SQL, CRUD, AWS, EC2, Blood bank, Unit Test, PyUnit, GIT Python Developer Miami Dade County Mosquito Control - Miami, FL March 2016 to September 2016 As part of a team my role was to maintain the system modules that handled forms for recording positive cases and the module that kept track of the physical locations of mosquito poison wells. The project was built with Python Django Web Framework and Angular for the front-end.    Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Collaborated in the SDLC process by working with teammates on building, testing, and deploying Mosquito Control portal to organize communications between the teams working on the ground.  ? Performed complex query operations using SELECT, UPDATE, ORDER BY, INSERT, and GROUP BY on MySQL tables and data to create views and organize information to print team and weekly reports.  ? Employed the MVT system in Django to maintain and modify application. Using Models to create database tables, Views to process and display patient/case/mosquito information, and Templates to display data to the team and local government.  ? Combined the querying capabilities of MySQL and Django Querysets to store positive-case demographic information, mosquito trap contents and geographical coordinates so that the medical team could make house visits to affected households and neighborhood area.  ? Performed troubleshooting, fixed and modified code to remove bugs using unit tests and PyUnit.  ? Collaborated with development team working through JIRA using SCRUM methodology.  ? Added unit tests and improved existing ones using PyUnit module.  ? Interacted with AWS EC2 instances using Lambda functions to add, remove and modify content in the application system.  ? Wrote scalable, highly reusable code using PEP 8 principles so current and future colleagues can read, understand and use the code.  Environment: Python, Django Angular, Pharm, VS Code, Jupyter Notebook, MySQL, SQL, CRUD, AWS, EC2, Blood bank, unit test, PyUnit, GIT, Pharm Data Scientist Sonic Healthcare Group - Hicksville, NY April 2014 to February 2016 Project scope here was to reduce costs by analyzing test and patient data to determine the most effective ways to complete all the tests on schedule and on budget.    Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Gathered, aggregated and cleaned patient/testing data from a host of sources including consuming APIs, MySQL databases and MongoDB and scraping using BeautifulSoup from external websites.  ? Explored patient and testing data using Python modules like NumPy, SciPy, Scikit-Learn, Pandas.  ? Visualized data using Seaborn module and Matplotlib to better understand data, created scatterplots, bar graphs, pie charts, histograms.  ? Normalized data using an appropriate method (log, square, square-root, etc.), used NumPy or a custom function when appropriate.  ? Worked with dimensionality reduction techniques like PCA to reduce large datasets into management chunks.  ? Used regression models like Linear Regression, Decision Trees, and Random Forests to fit data and predict continuous variables.  ? Employed several classification algorithms including Naïve Bayes, Random Forest, Support Vector Machines, Logistic Regression to predict classes.  ? Used clustering methods like K-Means and KNN to find hidden patterns in data and create new labels.  ? Used Regularization techniques such as L1 and L2 and Elastic net to balance variance - bias tradeoff.  ? Presented results to team members and management using PowerPoint.  Environment: Jupyter Notebook, Anaconda, Python, Pandas, SciPy, NumPy, Scikit-Learn, Pharm, Excel, PowerPoint, Antrim, Apollo Education Bachelor's Degree in Information Technology in Information Technology Queens College - Flushing, NY 2014 Skills Amazon web services, Django, Front-end, Git, Html, Javascript, Bootstrap, Typescript, Vs code, Python, Flask, Numpy, Pandas, Mysql, Postgresql, Sql, Sqlite, Elastic beanstalk, Ebs, Ec2