Python developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">developer</span> Python developer - State of Nebraska, Nebraska Nebraska City, NE • 8 years of experience as a Web/Application Developer and coding with analytical programming using Python, C++.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, XML, HTML, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Good experience of software development in Python language and IDEs -sublime text, Spyder, PyCharm, Eclipse, etc.  • Experience in various modules like rest framework, mock, NumPy etc.  • Good knowledge on NoSQL databases like Cassandra, MongoDB.  • Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  • Experience in using Design Patterns such as MVC, Singleton and frameworks such as Django.  • Experience in using Version Control Systems like GIT, SVN and CVS. Good experience in Linux Bash scripting and following PEP Guidelines in Python.  • Architecture using Django, Flask, Pyramid Pythn web application frameworks.  • Extensively worked on Hudson/Jenkins, Build Forge for continuous integration and for End to End automation for all build and deployments.  • Python programming on handling warnings, Exception handling, concrete exceptions, binary data services.  • Experience in various modules like rest framework, mock, NumPy etc.; • Good experience in Shell Scripting, SQL Server, UNIX and Linux.  • Developed web applications and RESTful web services and APIs using Python Flask, Django and PHP.  • Web pages on the internet are generated by servers running LINUX.  • Experience in using Git, GitHub and deploying them.  • Added several options to the application to choose the algorithm for data and address generation.  • Using Subversion control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Experienced in using various version control systems like GitHub enterprise.  • Expertise with automated testing tool such as Selenium testing.  • Extensive work experience on Black Box testing Integration testing and System testing and Automation testing.  • Developed automation frameworks using selenium web drive • Experience with Unit testing/ Test driven Development (TDD), Load Testing.  • Experience in maintaining all the tools like Bamboo, Bit Bucket, Confluence, JIRA, and GIT.  • Experience in administering and supporting the CM tools including Subversion and CVS on UNIX environments.  • Experience in using debugging tools like Bugzilla, and JIRA.  • Complete Knowledge on SDLC models, Agile (Scrum, Kanban). Work Experience Python developer State of Nebraska, Nebraska January 2016 to Present Responsibilities: • Complete development and expertise in Rest framework in Django.  • Involved in Developing a Restful service using Python Django framework.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework with GIT.  • Dealing with client regarding the requirements of the projects and taking care of production issues and bugs.  • Perform Jenkins administration, updating plugins, setting up new projects and debugging build problems.  • PowerShell scripting management for mass deployments/changes • Application deployment via PowerShell/One Click • PowerShell scripting and automation • Develop Interactive front end to visualize data from backend and represent in graphical manner to batter understanding for user.  • Experienced in hand-coding HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, and other UI technologies.  • Developed the entire project using PostgreSQL. Migrating from other databases to PostgreSQL.  • Expertise in developing web-based open stack applications using Python and Django for large dataset analysis.  • Front-end web development using HTML/CSS, JQuery, Bootstrap as well as back-end development using SQL.  • Used Test driven approach for developing the application and Implemented the unit tests using Python Unit test framework.  • Worked on Atlassian tools like Bamboo, Jira, and confluence.  • Created Branches, Labels and performed Merges in Stash and GIT.  • Administering Code Repositories in SVN and Bit bucket.  • Involved in the complete Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) to develop the application.  • Followed AGILE development methodology to develop the application.  • Used Test driven approach (TDD) for developing services required for the application.  • Implemented Integration test cases.    Environment: Python, Django, Git, Python oops, Linux, Postgres, HTML5, CSS3, Angular 2.0, PostgreSQL, and python libraries such as NumPy, etc. Python developer Morningstar - Chicago, IL July 2012 to December 2015 Responsibilities: • Involved in Developing a Restful service using Python Django framework.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework with GIT.  • Designing Celery and multithreading for scheduling the tasks and multiple activities.  • Develop Interactive front end to visualize data from backend and represent in graphical manner to batter understanding for user.  • Experienced in hand-coding HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, and other UI technologies.  • Experience with JavaScript Frameworks Ext JS, AngularJS, jQuery • Experienced in web applications development using Flask and Django in Python.  • Expertise in developing web-based open stack applications using Python and Django for large dataset analysis.  • Parsed the unstructured data into semi-structured format by writing complex algorithms in pyspark.  • Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  • Experience in report writing using SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS) and in creating various types of reports like table, matrix, and chart report, web reporting by customizing URL Access.  • Provide high-level technical support and administration for GIS-based routing software.  • Ensure data integrity, performing extensive quality control checks of GIS data and non-spatial database.  • Front-end web development using HTML/CSS, JQuery, Bootstrap as well as back-end development using Golang and SQL.  • Used Test driven approach for developing the application and Implemented the unit tests using Python Unit test framework • Worked on Atlassian tools like Bamboo, Jira, and confluence.  • Reviewed and implemented instrument pricing and modelling methodologies in collaboration with technical engineers. Analyzed and documented how instrument prices move as underlying market data sources change.  • Involved in the Complete Software development life cycle (SDLC) to develop the application.  • Full Stack Developer for custom Drupal 7 build. Responsibilities included site maintenance, new feature development and user support.    Environment: Python 2.7, PyQuery, Angular.js, Shell Scripting, JSON, Rest, Apache Web Server, Django, SQL, UNIX, Windows, PostgreSQL, and python libraries such as NumPy, etc. Python Developer Cyient - Bengaluru, Karnataka January 2010 to June 2012 Responsibilities: • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Participated in the complete SDLC process.  • Developed rich user interface using CSS, HTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Created Business Logic using Python 2.7.  • Used Django framework for application development.  • Created database using MySQL, wrote several queries and Django API's to extract data from database.  • Created specific images using Python Imaging Library for the custom images used for each book.  • Wrote scripts in Python for extracting data from HTML file.  • Effectively communicated with the external vendors to resolve queries.  • Used Git for the version control.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django, MySQL, Windows, Linux, HTML, CSS, JQuery, JavaScript, Apache, Linux. Education Bachelor of Engineering in Computer Science and Engineering in Computer Science and Engineering Anna University - Chennai, Tamil Nadu Skills Android studio, C++, Django, Javascript, Jenkins, Python, Flask, Svn, Xml, Database, Db2, Ms access, Sql server, Mysql, Oracle, Sql, Sybase, Bugzilla, Jira, Tomcat Additional Information Technical Skills:  Programming Skills C, C++, Python, JavaScript, XML, JAVA, SQL  Frameworks Django and Flask  IDE(s) PyCharm, Eclipse, Android Studio, Spyder  Database SQL, MS Access, SQL Server, MYSQL and Sybase, Oracle, DB2  Operating Systems LINUX, UNIX, VMware and WINDOWS  Web Services REST, SOAP and AWS  Servers Apache Tomcat and Web Logic  Version Control ToolsGit, GitHub and SVN  Development Process Waterfall, Agile and Scrum.  Bug Tracking Tool JIRA, Bugzilla  Deployment Tools Heroku Jenkins