Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - Florida Department of Health Sacramento, CA • 7+ years of IT experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Implementation and Testing of various stand-alone and client-server architecture based enterprise application software in Python on various domains.  • Handy experience in developing Web-Applications implementing Model View Control architecture using Django, Flask frameworks.  • Experienced in developing Web-based Applications using Python, CSS, HTML, JavaScript.  • Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  • Good knowledge of Web Services with protocols SOAP, REST.  • Involved in Unit testing, Integration testing, User-Acceptance testing, and Functional testing.  • Expertise in working with server side technologies including databases, Restful APL and MVC design patterns.  • Strong knowledge in SQL concepts - CRUD operations and aggregation framework.  • Well versed with Design and Development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Experience in working with different operating systems like UNIX, and MAC OS X.  • Good Analytical and Problem-Solving skills and ability to work on own besides being a valuable and contributing team player.  • Having experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Pythonbased environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Experience in working with Python ORM Libraries including Django ORM.  • Hands on experience in working with various Version Control Systems, mostly GIT.  • Good Communication and interpersonal skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Python Developer Florida Department of Health - Tallahassee, FL August 2017 to Present Description: Florida Department of Health administers healthcare programs, such as Medicare, Medicaid, Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP), and these three major national healthcare programs benefit about 100 million Americans.    Responsibilities:  • Worked in comprehending and examining the client's business requirements.  • Used Django frameworks and Python to build dynamic webpages.  • Developed tools for monitoring and notification using Python.  • Enhanced the application by using HTML and Java script for design and development.  • Used data structures like directories, tuples, object oriented class based inheritance features for making complex algorithms of networks.  • Created PHP/MySQL back-end for data entry from Flash and worked in tandem with the Flash developer to obtain the correct data through query string  • Involved in designing database Model, API's, Views using python to build an interactive web based solution.  • Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users.  • Implemented Data tables to add, delete, update and display patient records and policy information using PyQt.  • Implemented a module to connect and view the status of an Apache Cassandra instance using python.  • Developed MVC prototype replacement of current product with Django.  • Improved the Data Security and generated report efficiently by caching and reusing data.  • Created UI using JavaScript and HTML5/CSS3.  • Managed datasets using Panda data frames and MYSQL. Queried the database queries using Python-MySQL connector and retrieved information using MySQLdb.  • Recorded the online users' data using Python Django forms and implemented test case using Pytest.  • Developed the application using the TestDriven methodology and designed the unit tests using Python Unit test framework.  • Created web application prototype using jQuery and Angular JS.  • Deployed the project into Heroku using GIT version control system,  • Maintained and Updated the application in accordance to the clientele's requirement    Environment: Python 3, Django 1.6, Tableau 8.2, Beautiful soup, HTML5, CSS/CSS3, Bootstrap, XML, JSON, JavaScript, JQuery, Angular JS, Backbone JS, Restful Web services, Apache spark, Linux, Git, Amazon s3, Jenkins, MySQL, Mongo DB, T-SQL, Eclipse. Python developer Optum - Saint Paul, MN September 2016 to July 2017 Responsibilities:  • Used Python to build their pricing, risk management and trade management platform.  • Experience in Numpy/ Scipy, Pandas ( Python data analysis library) for all sort of data analysis.  • Supported the bank website in creating user profiles, we can also do the simple banking transactions for the withdrawls, deposit and transactions is accompanied by password check by securing  • individual account holder's privacy with the banking management scripts in Python.  • Built a restful microservice with the use of flask  • Developed the web applications with the use of the Django and flask.  • Backend skills in creating SQL objects like Tables, Stored Procedures, Views, Indexes, Triggers, Rules, Defaults, user defined data types and functions.  • Using Django_evolution and manual SQL modifications was able to modify Django models, while retaining all data, while sight was in production mode.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python.  • Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Involved in Unit testing and Integration testing for the application.  • Develop and validated unit test cases using PYUNIT.  • Performing code coverage and Pep8 standardization.  • Involved in daily Scrum meetings and follows agile methodology.  Environment: Python, Django, Panda API, JSON, Shell Scripting, HTML, Javascript, JQuery, XML, SOAP, Agile, SQL. Python developer Wisgnex, Santaclara CA January 2015 to August 2016 Responsibilities:  • Analysis of requirements and implement different functions according to design.  • Developed the back-end web services for the worker using python and REST APIs.  • Wrote scripts in Python for Extracting Data from JSON and XML files.  • Implemented MVC architecture in developing the web application by Django framework.  • Used Test driven approach for developing the application and Implemented the unit tests using Python Unit test framework.  • Used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users.  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Involved in writing python scripts for Unit testing, Automation testing and used Jenkins for Integrations testing by creating jobs.  • Used Git and JIRA for code submissions and issue tracking.  • Performing code coverage and Pep8 standardization.  • Involved in daily Scrum meetings and follows agile metholodology.  Environment: Python, Django, Panda API, JSON, HTML, CSS, Javascript, JQuery, XML, SOAP, Jira, Agile, SQL, Mysql. Python developer Mskills, Hyderabad IND May 2012 to December 2014 Responsibilities:  • Involved in the Design, development, test, deploy and maintenance of the website.  • UI was developed using HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python.  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing of documents, data exchange and business logic implementation between servers  • Responsible for search engine optimization to improve the visibility of the website.  • Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  • Wrote validation scripts in SQL to validate data loading.  • Use Git for version control.  • Performed Unit and system testing.    Environment: Python, Django, MySQL, HTML, XHTML, CSS, JavaScript, Apache Web Server, Git, Linux. Python Developer Code&Pixcel, Hyderabad IND March 2010 to April 2012 Responsibilities:  • Used Agile Methodology and SCRUM Process.  • Developed UI using HTML, AJAX, Java script and jQuery and JQuery UI.  • Re-engineered various modules for implementing changes and creating efficient system.  • Developed rich UI web application using java script libraries like JQuery UI, data grid  • Designed and developed components using Python and implemented code in Python to retrieve and manipulate data.  • Used MySQL as backend database and MySQL dB of Python as database connector to interact with MySQL server.  • Used Restful APIs to access data from different suppliers.  • Support the scripts configuration, testing, execution, deployment and run monitoring and metering.  • Used Restful API's to gather network traffic data from Servers.  • Supported Apache Tomcat web server on Linux Platform.  • Developed and executed User Acceptance Testing portion of test plan.  • Debugging Software for Bugs.    Environment: Python, Django, HTML Restful API, Mysql, Shell Scripting, PL/SQL, UNIX, Linux Education Bachelor's Skills database (7 years), Django (8 years), HTML (8 years), MySQL (7 years), Python (8 years) Additional Information Technical Skills  • Web - Technologies: CSS, Java Script, JQuery, HTML, AngularJS  • Programming Language: Python, Java  • Frameworks: Django  • Data Base Technologies: Mysql, NoSQL database  • Version control: Git  • Operating System: Windows7/8, Red hat Linux 4.x/5.x/6.x, and MAC OSX