Sr. Python,Django, Angular Developer Sr.<span class="hl">Python</span>,Django, Angular <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python,Django, Angular Developer - Doran Jones New York, NY ? Around 9+Years of Experience in creating multiple Web Based Software applications using Python, Django, Angular, Node JS and Express JS.  ? Involved in all phases of software development life cycle (SDLC) including gathering Requirements, Analysis, Design, Implementation, Testing and Maintenance of Python web applications  ? Experience in developing APIs for the application using Python, Django, MongoDB, Express JS, Angular, and NodeJS.  ? Familiar with the installation of various packages such as express, mongoose, body-parser etc. using the node package manager (npm).  ? Proficiency in creating single page applications (SPA) using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Angular, Bootstrap.  ? Experience in developing applications using Model Template View architecture using Python and Django web application framework.  ? Experience in building MEAN applications using MongoDB, Express.JS, Angular, Node JS, creating Web services components of Restful Web services to interact with UI Interfaces using REST API with Node JS, Express JS.  ? Experience in implementation of Django object-relational mapping layers (ORM) effectively.  ? Experience in setting up REST API Framework using Python Django Rest Framework  ? Good experience in Object Oriented Concepts (OOP) in Python.  ? Experienced with Python Data Science libraries such as Numpy, Matplotlib and Pandas for data manipulation and analysis.  ? Knowledge in working with Python web scraping modules such as BeautifulSoup and Requests.  ? Proficiency in implementing and working with CRUD operations inside MySQL, SQLite and MongoDB  ? Understanding of Python's best practices (PEP-8) and unit testing.  ? Experience in working with various Python Integrated Development, PyCharm, Eclipse, Sublime Text and Notepad++  ? Strong familiarity with Agile, Scrum Methodologies in Software Development.  ? Experience in deploying the web application using Amazon Web Services  ? Experience in using version control systems like GitHub  ? Excellent client interaction and presentation skills and proven experience in working independently as well in a team with good leadership qualities. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Python,Django, Angular Developer Doran Jones - New York, NY April 2018 to Present Description: Doran Jones IT Consulting - The Risk and Regulatory Compliance Specialists  Project Management - Analysis - Development - DevOps - QA - Applied Data Services    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in all the phases of SDLC including Requirements Collection, Design & Analysis of the Customer Specifications, Development and Customization of the Application.  ? Using Node JS, Express JS, handled HTTP Request/Response calls using Angular Router module and developed a Single Page Application.  ? Created methods (get, post, put, delete) to make requests to the Node API server and tested Restful API using postman.  ? Used Mongoose in order to access the MongoDB from Node JS and used Angular CLI and NPM for scaffolding the Angular Application.  ? Used Angular services to consume the REST API's and retrieve data from database and Angular Pipes to filter the data to display it in the view.  ? Assisted in developing the MVT design of the staff/user and login modules run on Django Framework.  ? Used Django's built-in authentication for the purposes of Login authentication and security.  ? Created and managed the admin customization by building extended user models using Django framework.  ? Used MongoDB as the database for this Django Web application.  ? Used Python packages like NumPy, Pandas to perform and display the analysis on medical records.  ? Assisted in developing the user interface using HTML5, CSS3, Angular and Bootstrap.  ? Involved for debugging and troubleshooting the code and participated in deploying the application using AWS.  ? Maintained the Version and Backups of the source using GitHub.    Environment: Angular, Angular-CLI, Python, Django, REST, AWS, MongoDB, Mongoose, Node.js, NPM, Express, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, bootstrap, JSON, Chart.js, JQ-Widgets, Visual studio code, GitHub, Postman Python, Django Developer Whole Foods Market Inc - Austin, TX July 2017 to March 2018 Description: Whole Foods Market Inc. is an American supermarket chain that specializes in selling organic products. It has 479 stores in North America and the United Kingdom. The project involved addition of modules and new functionality to the existing supply chain software system in the Enterprise Resource Planning modules. This project deals with the inventory, cart, order placement, shipping, payment and checkout modules in the supply chain. I was involved in the development of the inventory module. This module is built up using Django Framework and it furnishes the details of the goods/products in the stock. The products are grouped into certain product categories depending on the similarity in nature. Functionalities include displaying the availability and shortcomings of products and the product search function iterates through all the products and product categories as per the search query and displays the results.    Responsibilities:  ? Participated in Agile and Scrum meetings which included Sprint planning, Daily Scrums or Standups and involved in designing, developing and testing the application.  ? Integrated with MySQL database for this project using pymysql module and mysql-connector and developed the database management system using MySQL Workbench.  ? Designed and developed front-end and back-end modules using Python on Django Framework and also implemented the search function on the website using Querysets.  ? Used Django Paginator and implemented pagination on each page.  ? Created forms and form validations in Django forms using Python.  ? Involved in creating data models in Django and used Django Framework for a Model-View-Template design pattern.  ? Managed relational database applications with Django ORM Framework and MySQL database.  ? Created Django REST API's using Python that are used to access the database.  ? Developed a RESTful web services using Python and Django to retrieve and save data  ? Created responsive user interface using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap and JavaScript    Environment: Python, Django REST framework, JSON, MySQL, Workbench, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap, GitHub, Microsoft Visual Studio, Pycharm IDE, Postman. Python,Django Developer Teaneck, NJ September 2015 to June 2017 Description: Cognizant is an American multinational corporation that provides IT services, including digital, technology, consulting, and operations services. It United States. Cognizant is included in the NASDAQ-100 and the S&P 500 indices    Responsibilities:  ? Used Django Framework to create the models, views and template design for the website  ? Used Numpy and Pandas to perform analysis  ? Designed Django REST web services using Python and Django to get and post data.  ? Worked with Django Class Based Views for creating API's.  ? Managed relational database applications with Django ORM Framework and MySQL database.  ? Created methods (get, post) to make requests to the API server and tested Restful API using postman.  ? Integrated the project with MySQL database and carried out the get and post operations on postman using the API's  ? Used Agile methodology in developing the website.  ? Took part in designing and developing the website using HTML, CSS.  ? Used Bootstrap to make the website responsive.  ? Used GitHub as version control software    Environment: Python, Django REST framework, MySQL, Workbench, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, JSON, Numpy, Pandas, Github, Pycharm IDE, Postman Python Developer VoxTechInc - Wilmington, DE March 2013 to August 2015 Description: VoxTech exists to solve the critical issues facing our clients, both large and small. Our unique approach is not only what differentiates us, but also what makes us successful. We provide a broad range of services and solutions to help organizations facilitate change, achieve their vision and optimize performance and productivity.    Responsibilities:  ? Lead our frontend and backend web engineering efforts, providing the team with  ? mentorship, guidance and career development opportunities  ? Collaborate with other members of the leadership team, including the Director of Mobile  ? Engineering, to continuously improve our development process, delivery standards and output quality  ? Assess the technical feasibility of newly-created product ideas and continuously propose  ? implementation solutions while identifying risk throughout the design and development lifecycle  ? Guide cross-functional project teams in developing estimates and overall implementation  ? plans while leading effective cross-disciplinary collaboration throughout the project development lifecycle  ? Prepare and deliver technical proposals and presentations to project stakeholders and  ? prospective clients, with the ability to influence decision makers with clear and defensible rationale  ? Promote and advocate for writing logical, pragmatic code, frequently performing code reviews Python Developer Icon Interactive, t - Ann Arbor, MI August 2011 to February 2013 Description: ICON Interactive is a full-service digital agency that represents the merger of extraordinary design and powerful technology. Each initiative, each project, receives the full weight of both sides of the brain, rendering beautiful imagery that engages the eye, and functional control that gives real purpose    Responsibilities:  ? Content Management System -- Django or other  ? Experience w/Microservices Architecture  ? Python Flask REST API + uWSGI + nginx web server  ? Elasticsearch for keyword and tag search  ? Splunk Site metrics and dashboard  ? Performance tuning  ? Cloud Computing (AWS)  ? Amazon SQS for asynchronous processing  ? Amazon S3 for web traffic data * GitHub  ? SQL /Relational Databases  ? Stripe- python for app-integrated vendor contacts e-commerce Python Developer MLWIZ Team - Boston, MA October 2009 to July 2011 Responsibilities:  ? Work with product, design, and business  ? partners and plan future enhancements for the order  ? management platform (such as creative approvals and reserving inventory).  ? Collaborate with the team on architectural choices.  ? Develop a deep understanding of the business  ? environment and strategy.  ? Adopt and/or develop tools for testing,  ? deployment and automation Education Bachelor's Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Programming Languages Python, JavaScript, TypeScript, SQL, Java  Databases SQLite, MySQL, MongoDB, Oracle  Web Developments Bootstrap, HTML5, CSS3, REST  Frameworks Django, Flask, Angular, Node.js, Express.js  Libraries BeautifulSoup, Pillow, NumPy, Pandas, matplotlib, Tkinter, JWT, pymysql  Tools Eclipse, PyCharm, Microsoft Visual Studio, Postman, Git, GitHub  Servers Windows, Linux, MacOS, AWS