Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - PNC Bank Pittsburgh, PA • 8+ years of experience in IT Industry with proficiency in Design & Development of Python, Java/J2EE, Django, flask projects  • Experience in Multi-Tier distributed Enterprise applications  • Extensive experience in system analysis, design, development and implementation of web based and client/server application using HTML, Angular JS, BootStrap, underscore JS, Node JS, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, JSP, JDBC, XML, XSLT, Python, Django, PHP  • Working knowledge in multi-tiered distributed environment, OOAD concepts, good understanding of Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC)  • Developed Java/J2ee applications using Hibernate, XML, Android, XSLT, and Basic ASP.net applications including using Core Java concepts like OOPS, Multithreading, Garbage Collections, and Collection etc.  • Experience in Implementation of MVC/ MVW architecture using Servlet, Django, and RESTful, SOAP web service and SOAPUI  • Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache, Tomcat and WebSphere.  • Extensively followed development methodologies such as Agile (SCRUM), Water Fall  • Excellent Experience of Databases such as MySQL, Oracle 8g/9g/10g, Microsoft SQL Server, PostgreSQL, SQL/PLSQL concepts  • Good Knowledge of using IDE Tools like Eclipse, NetBeans, Android Studio, Visual Studio, IDLE.  • Experience on Ruby Reg-Ex for pattern and Text matching.  • Good command on full life cycle application development.  • Designed and developed video and blogging website on PHP using WordPress on wamp server using MySQL database  • Experience with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins  • Developed ColdFusion Components, custom tags and modified CF Objects  • Experience with Unit testing/ Test driven Development (TDD), Load Testing in JIRA, JENKIN.  • Wrote AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings Work Experience Sr. Python Developer PNC Bank - Pittsburgh, PA April 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Responsible for using the best technologies to add features to the existing system and services.  • Involved in all aspects of the development process from product inception to scaling in production.  • Accountable for driving software development best practices for the team and also mentoring and developing junior engineers.  • Working in collaboration with project managers and higher management in cross-functional teams within Sales and Account Management, to understand business requirements and develop efficient, elegant approaches to their implementation.  • Writing REST APIs, as part of developing web-based applications for insurance premium calculations, using Django's REST framework.  • Heavily leveraged Python's graphics APIs for creating graphics and serialization libraries for encoding data in XML/JSON formats.  • Correspondingly involved in writing REST APIs using Django framework for data exchange and business logic implementation.  • Involvement in using collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  • Used React-router to turn application into single page application  • Design and implemented custom Bash scripts for controlling the data flow from the Postgre SQLdatabase.  • Assisted the development team in sending the correct data via query strings using Postgre SQL as the back-end for storing data.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Responsible for configuring NoSQL databases like Apache Cassandra to for increasing compatibility with Django.  • Designed and created backend data access modules using PL/SQL stored procedures.  • Good experience in writing SQL Queries and implementing stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, cursors, triggers.  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA.  • Actively worked as a part of team with managers and other staff to meet the goals of the project in the stipulated time.  • Developed and executed User Acceptance Testing portion of test plan.  • Generated Django forms to record data of online users and used PyTest for writing test cases.  • Extensive use of version controlling systems like GIT and SVN.  Environment: Python, Django, MySQL, NOSQL, PL/SQL, GIT, SVN, Unit Test Linux, REST APIs, Apache Cassandra, Windows, PyTest, Jira. Python Developer T-Mobile - Bellevue, WA January 2017 to April 2018 Responsibilities:  • Developed Strategic partnerships with the business unit to develop a solid knowledge base of the business line, including the business plan, products and processes.  • Used UML Tools to develop Use Case diagrams, Class diagrams, Collaboration and Sequence Diagrams, State Diagrams and Data Modeling.  • Developed application logic using Python, Java script, Java, C++.  • Used JMS for updating Mailing plans and tracking them.  • Used Java Server Pages for content layout and presentation.  • Worked extensively with Bootstrap, JavaScript, and jQuery to optimize the user experience.  • Enhanced existing automated solutions, such as the Inquiry Tool for automated Asset Department reporting and added new features and fixed bugs  • Created database using MySQL, wrote several queries to extract/store data.  • Developed, tested and debugged software tools utilized by clients and internal customers  • Extracted and loaded data using Python scripts and PL/SQL packages  • Supported Java application for Media portal management.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using python.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  • Debugging and testing of the applicati    Environment: Python, Django, HTML/CSS, MS SQL Server 2012, MySQL, Script, Eclipse, GIT, GitHub, AWS, Linux, Shell Scripting. Python Developer Rockwell Collins - Cedar Rapids, IA August 2014 to December 2016 Rockwell Collins is a pioneer in the design, production and support of innovative solutions for our customers in aerospace and defence. Our expertise in flight-deck avionics, cabin electronics, mission communications, information management and simulation and training is strengthened by our global service and support network spanning 150 countries. Working together, our global team of nearly 20,000 employees shares a vision to create the most trusted source of communication and aviation electronics solutions.    Responsibilities:  • Performed Systems Analysis and detail application design  • Worked on development and enhancement of automated tools for testing, integration and global application development. This includes detail description of availability. Also enhanced the check out and registration process.  • Work with team of developers on python applications for RISK management.  • Managed full-life development cycles  • Held overall responsibility of coordination of implementations of software builds and releases  • Provided analytics to help determine optimal way to assemble releases  • Tracked any additions, deletions or change in scope on the published release plan including efficient tracking of defects.  • Automating analysis of large data sets  • Built the release plan roadmap and keep maintained for communication  • Worked on UI modification using HTML, CSS.  • Developed Application logic using Python 2.7 and Django framework.  • Wrote backend data access Logic using MYSQL and SQL Server  • Used Web Services to extract Supplier inventory for various high end items.  • Integrated the application with different internal system.  • Designed and implemented a distributed, QA infrastructure for automated testing of a multi process software product.  • Involved in Unit, integration and smoke testing.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed entire front end and back end modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Designed and developed data center management system using MySQL.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using python.  • Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  • Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.8, MySQL, Windows, Linux, HTML, CSS, JQuery, JavaScript, Apache, Linux. Python Developer Activision Blizzard - Santa Monica, CA February 2012 to July 2014 Activision Blizzard global family of specialty retail brands that makes the most popular technologies affordable and simple. As the world largest multichannel video game retailer, sell new and pre-owned video game hardware, physical and digital video game software, video game accessories as well as new and pre-owned mobile and consumer electronics products merchandise primarily through our Activision Blizzard EB Games and Micromania stores.  Responsibilities:  • Automation for execution of tests in batch using Shell scripting in python.  • Development of data structures, XML parsing using Python.  • Usage of advance features like pickle/unpickle in python for sharing the information across the applications.  • Used Django database API's to access database objects.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Generated graphical reports using python package Numpy and matPlotLib.  • Representation of the system in hierarchy form by defining the components, subcomponents using Python and developed set of library functions over the system based on the user needs.  • Development of Python APIs to dump the array structures in the Processor at the failure point for debugging.  • Wrote programs to parse excel file and process many user data with data validations.  • Create Cassandra database to handle the user's data (server-client).  • Developed front end page using HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using python.  • Collecting the several usage models and functions from the team members.  • Developing and maintenance of the tool that abstracts the information for the user.  • Implemented multiple high performances MongoDB.  • Utilized various IDEs and internal debug tools during debugging.  • Analyzing the data in design database.  • Used SVN for version control.  • Maintaining the data with different levels of access privileges.  Environment: Python, Django, Linux, HTML, CSS, MongoDB, Cassandra, Web services, SVN. Jr. Python Developer Harrisburg, PA October 2011 to January 2012 Responsibilities:  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Utilized PyQt to provide GUI for the user to create, modify and view reports based on client data.  • Used Python based GUI components for the front end functionality such as selection criteria.  • Developed monitoring and notification tools using Python.  • Deployed the entire code using Linux parameters of the virtual machines for UAT phase.  • Worked on Technologies: QT, QML, C++, QNX, UML, JavaScript and Json.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, HTML, Bootstrap, and REST API calls using the JSON.  • Used GitHub for version control.  • Integrating the application with Django REST framework for building the API's.  • Worked with on AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings.  • Extensively used XLSX reader and writer modules to read, write and analyze data and project the results as per the client request.  • Good Experience in Linux Bash scripting and following PEP-8 Guidelines in Python.  • Using Django evolution and manual SQL modifications was able to modify Django models while retaining all data, while site was in production mode.  • Improved the coding standards, code reuse. Increased performance of the extended applications by making effective use of various design patterns (Front Controller, DAO)  • Utilized STL and C++ algorithms to achieve optimal design efficiency.  • Creating Restful web services for Catalog and Pricing with Django MVT, MySQL and Oracle.  • Using SQLAlchemy with Flask and PostgreSQL as database for developing the web application.  • Used REST and SOAP API for testing web service for server-side changes.  • Developing scripts for build, deployment, maintain and related task using Jenkins, Maven, Python, Bash.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to Postgresql with complete data integrity.  • Automated tasks with tools like Puppet and Ansible.  • Setup Docker on Linux and configured Jenkins to run under Docker host.  • Managed code versioning with GitHub, Bitbucket and deployment to staging and production servers.  • Taken part in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Continuous improvement in integration workflow, project testing, and implementation of continuous integration pipeline with Jenkins  Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.10, MySQL, Python Scripting, MongoDB, AJAX, SOAP, REST, jQuery, JavaScript, Bootstrap, PyCharm, AWS (EC2, S3, RDS). Java Developer Dallas, TX June 2010 to September 2011 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Design, Development and Support phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC)  • Reviewed the functional, design, source code and test specifications  • Involved in developing the complete front end development using Java Script and CSS  • Author for Functional, Design and Test Specifications  • Implemented Backend, Configuration DAO, XML generation modules of DIS  • Analyzed, designed and developed the component  • Used JDBC for database access  • Used Data Transfer Object (DTO) design patterns  • Unit testing and rigorous integration testing of the whole application  • Written and executed the Test Scripts using JUNIT  • Actively involved in system testing  • Developed XML parsing tool for regression testing  • Prepared the Installation, Customer guide and Configuration document which were delivered to the customer along with the product  Environment: Java, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, JDK 1.5.1, JDBC, Oracle10g, XML, XSL, Solaris and UML Education Bachelor's Skills DJANGO (7 years), HTML (7 years), JAVASCRIPT (7 years), PYTHON (7 years), CSS (7 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:  Languages Python, Java, Perl, C, C++, HTML, CSS, Ant, Maven, JavaScript and Shell Script  Python Framework Django, Flask framework  Databases MySQL, MongoDB, SQL Server, Oracle and PostgreSQL  Versioning Tools Git, SVN, CVS Web servers Apache, Flask  Operating systems Linux/Unix, Windows