Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Fidelity Investments • 6+ years of experience as a Python Web/Application Developer with strong focus on analytical programming - performed data analysis and data visualizations  • Experienced with full software development life-cycle, architecting scalable platforms, database design and agile methodologies.  • Experience in object-oriented programming (OOP) concepts like Multi-Threading, Exception Handling and Collections using Python.  • Experienced in design patterns such as MVC using Django, Flask and deploying application on Apache tomcat server, containerizing applications using Docker.  • Good experience in software development using Python and using its libraries and modules like NumPy, Pandas, Pickle, Jupyter, SciPy, Python-twitter, Matplotlib, urllib2 for data analytics and rapid development  • Proficient in Python OpenStack API'S and GUI framework - Pyjamas (for web)  • Strongly follow PEP-8 coding standard and test a program by running it across test cases to ensure validity and effectiveness of code using PyChecker and PyLint.  • Involved in Unit testing and Integration testing of the code using PyTest.  • Proficient in SQL databases MYSQL, PostgreSQL, Oracle and MongoDB.  • Having experienced in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL, PL/SQL and PostgreSQL database with ETL and Teradata experience  • Experience in Continuous Integration (CI): Gradle, Maven, Ant, Hudson/Jenkins and good knowledge in maintaining various version control systems such as GIT, SVN, CVN.  • Experience in UNIX/Linux shell scripting for job scheduling, batch-job scheduling, automating batch programs, forking and cloning jobs.  • Experience in Third Party tools like CollectD, SNMP, Karaf, Yang, Yaml, OSGi  • Worked on Java: Zookeeper Curator, Guava, Logging (slf4j, logback, log4j), Junit  • Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Fidelity Investments - New York, NY August 2017 to Present Description:  This application primarily helps the Operational/Risk/Compliance team to report & analyze operational loss events and their impacts across the bank operations globally. Loss events are either grouped as linked losses or non-linked losses according to the nature of the events. The application also has features to record Root causes which resulted in the loss event and come up with Action plans to address such loss events. The loss events are then associated with multiple Processes, Risk & Control measures based on the loss and insurance recovery amounts.    Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed customer preferences portal in Python using Django framework.  • Automating the deployment of applications as portable, self-sufficient containers that can run on the cloud or on-premises using Docker.  • Created custom user with overriding key field and adding more fields other than that provided by the Django out-of-box features.  • Customized user registration with two steps (in-active user creation and email activation)  • Designed User Interface to leverage HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Implemented Ajax calls to get, post, delete REST API calls for upload and delete files.  • Implemented web scraping using Python's Beautiful Soup library.  • Worked with Pandas for automatic and explicit data alignment, easy handling of missing data and performed Data framing, Data Analysis, and Data representation  • Worked on writing and as well as read data from CSV and excel file formats.  • Worked on data analysis and data mining algorithms using teradata  • Used Numpy, Scipy, Matplotlib libraries for n-dimensional representation of data and plotting graphs.  • Achieved business process automation via applications developed using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Managed Build, Reporting, and documentation using Maven.  • ETL process for continuously bulk importing catalog data from MySQL into Elastic search  • Wrote python scripts to perform CRUD operations on MySQL database.  • Experience in automation via Bash/shell scripting and Python programming.  • Involved in Unit testing and Integration testing of the code using PyTest.  • Involved in Sprint planning sessions and participated in the daily Agile SCRUM meetings. And monitored on JIRA (Agile)  Environment: Python, Django, Django REST framework, Bootstrap Framework, Nodejs, Jenkins, GIT, Zeus, JBOSS, Ruby, Cassandra, Jira, Microsoft AZURE. Python Developer AT&T - Dallas, TX July 2016 to August 2017 Description:  AT&T's Hosting and Application Services deliver a range of hosting and management capabilities that provide organizations with a global, secure network infrastructure and managed hosting services. Designed to support business applications with leading technologies, high-performing facilities, comprehensive capabilities and the leading-industry customer portal, AT&T's expansive portfolio includes security, storage, intelligent content distribution, load balancing, multiple-carrier failover IP connectivity, utility computing and virtual services offerings, professional services, VPN and data networking integration and more.    Responsibilities:  • Developed and designed e-mail marketing campaigns using HTML, JavaScript and CSS.  • Experience in Implementation of MVC/ MVW architecture using Servlet, Django, and RESTful, SOAP web service and SOAPUI.  • Good knowledge in various phases of SDLC Requirement Analysis, Design, Development and Testing on various Development and Enhancement Projects.  • Extensive experience in designing and implementing various web applications in both LAMP (Linux, Apache, MY SQL, PHP) Environments.  • Having Good Experience in Object Oriented Concepts (OOPS) with C# and Python.  • Experience in analyzing and handling large datasets using Oracle Relational database.  • Working with backend Python automation, CI pipelines, Docker and cloud provisioning/automation.  • Experience in building frameworks in Python for Test Automation.  • Worked on - Continuous Integration (CI): Gradle, Maven, Ant, Jenkins, Git  • Excellent Experience in Code Refactoring and Udeploy. Solid ability to code in JavaScript.  • Experience in Bash Shell Scripting, SQL and Java Full stack web development using Python.  • Good knowledge on IBM WebSphere Application Deployment and maintenance of an application on Application Server using clusters concept and IBM Tivoli Monitoring.  Environment: Python, Django, Web Framework, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, MongoDB, Linux, Java script, JQuery, AJAX, JSON, Sublime Text, Jira, Git, Django-cms, SSO, database access, Django-cms plugins, Bootstrap, Agile, Eclipse, Web logic, GitHub, Junit, Agile, UML, JSP, Xml, SOA. Python Django Developer Johnson and Johnson - Raritan, NJ June 2015 to July 2016 Description: Johnson and Johnson is a prominent leader in the medical devices, pharmaceutical and consumer packaged goods industry over a large period of time. The Extended Enterprise Information Exchange (EEIX) is an online management application. It provides easy access to information about purchase requests including creation and manipulation and provides added visibility to your forecast. The initial phase of the application allows for managing purchase orders and processing forecast information, but there is the capability of expanding for other important management components. The essential purpose of EEIX is to simplify the management of communication between Verizon and its suppliers. Suppliers will be able to use EEIX to submit Engineering Change Requests, review an Engineering Change Notice, view Supplier Performance metrics, communicate with Johnson and Johnson Accounts Payable Department, and many more tasks that are important that allows for easier management of exchanging their information.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in design for front and back-end architecture.  • Implemented the lazy load for each page using Django Paginator.  • Developed Django web page comprised of navigation bar, customer page using Django template.  • Used Django Session for better performance of the web page.  • Performed Django model design pattern and ORM for Back-end server.  • Created the module transforming the web page to pdf file using Python.  • Assisted in Node.js Server deployment with Heroku.  • Extensive work in big data collecting using Python module such as Selenium, BeautifulSoup4 for web scraping.  • Used Numpy to analyze customer preference and Pandas and Matplotlib to visualize the result.  • Assisted for the prediction of customer preference using Tensor flow.  • Rendered and utilized the customer service page using CSS, HTML, and JavaScript.  • Created user-defined decorator to render HTML page.  Environment: Python, Selenium, BeautifulSoup4, Numpy, Tensor Flow, Matplotlib, Django, Django-rest-framework, Django-Paginator, CSS, HTML, Bootstrap, Heroku. Python Developer Thomson Reuters - Raleigh, NC May 2014 to June 2015 Description:  PNA is a digital content delivery platform which delivers digital content to consumers. PNA is responsible for registering consumers who wish to receive their digital content using one or more digital  Delivery channels, managing the consumer's delivery instructions and delivery consents, ingesting digital content destined for consumers from various brands, matching content to correct consumers, distributing consumer content to the appropriate channel and offering a federated content retrieval system.    Responsibilities:  • Develop, test, deploy and maintain the application.  • Worked with UI team to maintain and monitor the application using JAVA and Python.  • Developed web-based applications using Python 2.7/2.6, Django 1.4/1.3, PHP, Flask, Webapp2, Angular.js, VB, C++, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Developed UI screens using Angular JS (Custom Directives, Validation and Promises)  • Developed Angular Controllers, Services, Filters and HTML templates using Angular Directive.  • Rewrite existing Java application in Python module to deliver certain format of data.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse csv files and load the data in database.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python.  • Developed automated testing framework for command-line based tests on Linux using  • Objected Oriented Perl and for selenium-based tests using Python.  • Developed Test Cases using Easy Mock and used POSTMAN to test REST Calls.  • Worked in agile environment and developed CI/CD (Continuous Integration and Continuous Deployment) pipeline through Jira, GitHub, Team City, Pypi, Docker Hub, Supported Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Expert in writing Python modules to extract/load asset data from the MySQL source database.  • Wrote and executed various MySQL database queries from Python-MySQL connector and MySQL database package.  • Using Python/Django, HTML, CSS, Sass, JavaScript, SQL, and PostgreSQL, maintaining and adding software  Environment: Python 2.7/2.6, Django1.4/1.3, Angular.js, VB, C++, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, SQl, PostgreSQL, Jira, REST API, Mongo DB. Python Developer Eliassen Group - Austin, TX April 2013 to May 2014 Description:  company is an IT Enabled Services, Consulting & Software Development. Cloud Computing Company operating and supporting clients across the locations. Understanding that each business is unique and that your office has to work for you, optimizing your businesses efficiency. We are, therefore, committed to hiring the most qualified technicians and engineers in each of our divisions in order to ensure that we will always provide you with the most suitable solution for your IT needs. It succeeded in putting first real & much appreciated model "Service in Cloud" via integrating various tools & technologies.    Responsibilities:  • Created the environment specific settings for a new deployment and update the deployment specific conditional checks in code base to use specific checks.  • Extensively used OOD concepts in overall design and development of the system.  • Used UML Rational Rose to develop Use-case, Class and Object diagrams for OOA/OOD techniques.  • Prepared and analyzed reports using Python libraries and involved in environment Setup.  • Involved in database scrapes, folder cleanup, applying data retention using Airflow.  • Produce SAS Graphical reports showing GPLOT charts as well as PIE and BAR charts for analysis while providing the drill down capabilities.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the JQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Assisted with the addition of Hadoop processing to the IT infrastructure.  • Implementing customer data collection with PySpark/Hadoop analytics.  • Developed Hadoop integrations for data ingestion, data mapping and data processing.  • Used XML for dynamic display of options in select box and description on web page.  • Resolved user problems in a timely and accurate manner as a member of the End-User support team.  • ETL process for continuously bulk importing catalog data from MySQL into Elastic search  Environment: Python 3.x, Django 1.7, Java Script, Coffee Scripting, Elastic Search, Kafka, Airflow, DAG, LESS, HTML, Angular JS, JSON, AJAX, XML, CSS, MySQL, PySpark, SAS/SQL, Hadoop Bootstrap, Restful Web Services, Beautiful Soup, Jenkins, GitHub, Ansible, Linux, PyCharm. Education Master's