Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - CSWG Keene, NH • Over 6+ years of experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Management and Implementation of various stand-alone, client-server enterprise applications in Python.  • Experienced with full software development life-cycle, architecting scalable platforms, object-oriented programming, database design and agile methodologies.  • Experience object-oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python and C++.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, DJANGO, C++, XML, CSS3, and HTML5.  • Experience with Web Development, Python and the Django framework.  • Experienced in Python's modules NumPy, matplotlib for generating complex graphical data, creation of histograms etc.  • Experience with, Reportlab, Numpy, Matplotlib, HTTPLib2, Urllib2 and Pandas python libraries during development lifecycle.  • Experience in working with AWS VPC, EC2, and S3 cloud platform. Created multiple VPC, Subnets in AWS as per requirements.  • Experience with Unit testing/ Test driven Development (TDD), Load Testing in JIRA and Jenkins.  • Experience in developing web applications implementing MVC architecture using Django framework and SQLAlchemy.  • Hands on experience in working with WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, Python/PHP) Architecture.  • Good experience in developing web applications and implementing Model View Control (MVC) architecture using server-side applications like Django, Flask and Pyramid.  • Hands on experience in working with Python ORM libraries including Django ORM, SQL Alchemy.  • Working knowledge in multi-tiered distributed environment, OOAD concepts, good understanding of Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC).  • Good knowledge of web services with protocols SOAP and REST.  • Experience in using various version control systems like CVS, Git, GitHub and Amazon EC2 and deployment using Heroku.  • Proficient in writing SQL Queries, Stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, triggers using relational databases like Oracle and MySQL.  • Highly motivated, quality minded developer, with proven ability to deliver applications against tight deadlines.  • Possess good interpersonal, analytical presentation Skills, ability to work in Self-managed and Team environments. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer CSWG - Keene, NH July 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Worked with full software development life-cycle (SDLC), architecting scalable platforms, object oriented  • Programming, database design and agile methodologies  • Developed Views and Templates with Python and using Django's view controller and template language for the Web application.  • Performed testing using Django's Test Module.  • Wrote small code to test their behaviour and web-based desktop applications.  • Implemented Microservices architecture in developing the web application with the help of Flask framework.  • Worked with Python ORM Libraries including Django ORM and have good knowledge on Project management tools. Used Apache to deploy production site.  • Worked on several standard Python packages like Numpy, matPlotLib, Pandas and PyTables etc.  • Developed dynamic web pages using Python Django Frameworks.  • Involved in creating initial website prototype from Django skeleton and building out Views, Templates using CSS for whole site following Django MVC architecture.  • Involved in using various version control systems like CVS, Git, Bitbucket. GitHub and Amazon EC2 and deployment.  • Used Web Services and API's in python.  • Involved in development of Python based Web Services using REST for sending and getting data from the external interface in the JSON format and to track sales and perform sales analysis using Django and PostgreSQL.  • Involved SQL databases MySQL, PostgreSQL.  • Involved in object oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python.  • Worked with various Python Integrated Development Environments like IDLE, Pycharm, Atom, Eclipse, PyDev and Sublime Text.  • Used Security groups, Network ACL's, Internet Gateways, Route tables to ensure a secure zone for organization in AWS public cloud.  • Created S3 bucket in the AWS environment to store files and configured S3 bucket with various life cycle policies to archive the infrequently accessed data to storage classes based on requirement.  • Wrote Python application to read data from S3 bucket and ETL activities to transform data and move it to Redshift database.  • Worked with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services (AWS).  • Worked with Requests, Numpy, Scipy, Matplotlib, and Pandas python libraries during development lifecycle.  • Worked with UNIX / Linux internals, basic cryptography & security.    Environment: Python, Django, AWS, Flask, BitBucket, GitHub, AWS, Eclipse, Numpy, Pandas, MAtplotlib, Scipy, Angular.js, HTML, CSS, UNIX, LINUX, Agile and Windows. Python Developer First Republic Bank - San Francisco, CA March 2017 to June 2018 Responsibilities:  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web based solution.  • Responsible for setting up Python REST API framework using Django.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Developed web applications in Django Framework model view control (MVC) architecture.  • Involved in Python OOP code for quality, logging, monitoring, and debugging code optimization.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Developed Python batch processors to consume and produce various feeds.  • Design and documentation of REST APIs using Django Rest framework for collection and retrieval of high volume data which is results of search query.  • Used AWS to build cloud instances EC2, storage buckets S3, RedShift, Security Groups, VPC etc.  • Wrote Python scripts to gather data from different vendors and created S3 buckets to store files.  • Developed Business Logic using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL with complete data integrity.  • Used JQuery and Ajax calls for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  • Used JQuery for selecting particular DOM elements when parsing HTML.  • Worked on UI using HTML5, CSS3 and Java Scripts.  • Used GitHub for version control.  • Attended everyday Enterprise Workflow Stand-Up meeting to provide current status, thus implementing Agile (Scrum) Methodology with Test Driven Development.    Environment: Python, Django, AWS, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, XML, JQuery, AJAX, GitHub, DOM, SQL, Oracle, Agile and Windows. Python Developer JC Penney - Plano, TX December 2015 to February 2017 Responsibilities:  • Designed the Web application Using Python on Django Web Framework pattern to make it extensible and  • Flexible.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS, JQuery, and JavaScript.  • Used the Model View controller (MVC) framework to build modular and maintainable applications  • Building reusable code and libraries for future use.  • Developed scalable applications using Django framework.  • Maintained and improved the security level of data.  • Developed internal auxiliary web apps using Python Flask framework with CSS/HTML framework.  • Utilized PyUnit, the Python unit test framework for testing the functionality of the application.  • Profiled Python code for optimization and memory management.  • Implemented locking mechanisms using multithreading functionality.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.    Environment: Python, Django, PyUnit, JavaScript, HTML, XHTML, CSS, Ajax, JQuery, SQL, LINUX, Windows. Python Developer Ebix Software India Pvt. Ltd June 2013 to November 2015 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for analyzing various cross-functional, multi-platform applications systems enforcing python, best practices and provide guidance in making long term architectural design decisions.  • Designed and developed Use-Case Diagrams, Class Diagrams and Object Diagrams using UML Rational Rose for OOA/OOD techniques.  • Rewrite existing Java application in Python module to deliver certain format of data.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the JQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile).  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.    Environment: JAVA, J2EE, HTML, CSS, Shell Scripting, PL/SQL, Oracle, Linux and Windows. Education Master's Skills C++, Django, Html, Python, Flask, Matplotlib, Numpy, Pandas, Xml, Ms sql server, Sql server, Oracle, Pl/sql, Sql, Sqlite, Css, Dhtml, Web services, Linux, Sdlc, PHP, Javascript