Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Matrix Medical Network Phoenix, AZ • Around 9 years of experience in Design, Development and analysis of Python, Django and client-server technologies-based applications.  • Experienced in HTML/HTML5, DHTML, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, XML and JSON.  • Expert in Object Oriented Design and Programming concepts using Python and Java.  • Worked on several python packages like Numpy, matPlotLib, Beautiful Soup, Pickle, PySide, Scipy, wxPython, PyTables etc.  • Worked on various applications using python integrated IDEs Sublime Text, PyCharm, NetBeans, and Spyder  • Good experience in developing web applications and implementing Model View Control (MVC) architecture using server-side applications Django, Flask and Pyramid.  • Developed web applications using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, XML and JSON.  • Worked with dockers for containerization.  • Used Jenkins for continuous Integrity and Deployment.  • Implemented responsive web pages using HTML5/CSS3 and Bootstrap.  • Familiar with XML/JSON based SOAP and REST web services.  • Good experience in handling errors and exceptions.  • Experienced in debugging the issues.  • Experience of routing protocols like EIGRP, OSPF, RIP, BGP, and MPLS.  • Hands on experience with various application servers and web servers including Apache http servers, Web logic and WebSphere.  • Experience in relational databases like Oracle 11g/10g/9i/8i, MS SQL server, developing PL/SQL packages, Stored Procedures, Functions, Views, Indexes, Triggers, XML join, user defined data types and other complex queries.  • Proficient in developing complex SQL queries, Stored Procedures, Functions, Packages along with the DDL and DML queries  • Experience in project deployment using Jenkins/Heroku and using web services like Amazon Web Services (AWS) EC2 and AWS S3  • Expertise in establishing database connections for Java and Python by configuring packages like JDBC, MySQL- Python.  • Evaluating data file submissions and developing/maintaining SSIS packages for ETL processes  • Extensive experience in developing applications using Java API, Swing, HTML3/4/5, Flex, JavaScript, CSS2/3, JQuery, JDBC, JSF, JMS, XML  • Good knowledge in Installation and Configuration of Oracle Identity Manager (OIM), Oracle Access Manager (OAM), WebLogic Server and SOA suite for deploying identity management stack.  • Experience with SaaS (Software as a Service), PaaS (Platform as a Service), and IaaS (Infrastructure as a Service) solutions.  • Developed J2EE applications on IDE's like Eclipse, My Eclipse, Google GWT, and Rational Application Developer  • Experience in designing the automation framework using Python, Corn and Shell scripting.  • Experience on LAMP & WAMP. (Windows, Apache, MySQL and PHP) architecture.  • Familiarity with development best practices such as code reviews, unit testing with unit test and integration testing with pyvows.  • Experience in writing test scripts, test cases, test specifications and test coverage.  • Involved in all the phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  • Experienced in developing applications using agile methodologies like Test Driven Development (TDD), Scrum and also using Waterfall methodology.  • Worked on various operating systems Windows XP/7/8/10, UNIX and Linux.  • Data manipulation.  • Utilized standard Python modules such as csv, robotparser, itertools and pickle for development. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Matrix Medical Network - Scottsdale, AZ September 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Providing daily reports to the development team and the manager, participate in both the design and development phase.  • Participated in Daily stand-up meetings and provided status on work progress  • Strong understanding of MySQL database. Wring Queries on Existing schema for Analysis.  • Created database using MySQL and wrote several queries to extract data from database.  • Designed and developed a horizontally scalable APIs using Python Flask. FSpicy  • Designed the front end of the application using Python, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON and JQuery. Worked on backend of the application.  • Developed automation scripts to test storage appliances in Python.  • Developed server-based web traffic statistical analysis tool using Flask, Pandas and had implemented and tested python-based web applications interacting with MySQL.  • Developed and tested many features in an Agile environment using Python, Django, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap.  • Responsible for designing and deploying new ELK clusters (Elasticsearch, Logstash, Graphite Kibana, beats, Kafka, zookeeper etc.  • Implemented AngularJS controllers to maintain each view data  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON, XML, Angular JS and Node JS.  • Created Confusion Matrix using R table and Python sklearn metrics to evaluate each machine learning classifiers.  • Working with container-based deployments using Docker, working with Docker images, Docker Hub and Docker registries and Kubernetes.  • Performed testing using Django's Test Module.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Working in team of developers to build and deploy Flask, Linux, AWS.  • Involved in maintaining and editing Python scripts for application deployment automation  • Working on various Integrated Development Environments like Pycharm, Anaconda Spyder.  • Developed a portal to manage and entities in a content management system using Flask.  • Created, activated and programmed in Anaconda environment. Wrote programs for performance calculations using NumPy.  • Used Dockers for containerization.  • Implemented Model View Control (MVC) architecture using server-side applications like Django and Flask for developing web applications.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Created Python scripts used to generate reports.  • Worked on creating the Docker containers and Docker consoles for managing the application life cycle.  • Perform the calculation via python functions and spit the result in JSON format back to the Alexa/Google assistant and Chatbot  • Setup Docker on Linux and configured Jenkins to run under Docker host.  • Rewrite existing Java application in Python  • Built various graphs for business decision making using Python matplotlib library.  • Create, activate and program in Anaconda environment  • Applied HTML, HTML5, Java scripting and CSS for generating daily reports.  • Using the Numpy, Anaconda and ARCGIS module.  • Developed automatic generated reports using python and SQL.  • Design and implement the python scripts based on the requirement.  • Analyze the data using the Daily reports and work based on the requirement and targets, which discussed in the stand-up meetings.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many python bug fixes.  • Creation of python scripts for data access and analysis to aid in process and system monitoring.  • Involved in Agile methodology and scrum process.  • Participated in Design, Develop and deployment of the project.  • Implement code in python to retrieve and manipulate data.    Environment: Python 2.7, AWS, Devops, Django, Django Rest, Flask, CI/CD, GitHub, Ansible, HTML5/CSS, PostgreSQL, Amazon Web Service (AWS), S3, EC2, EBS, PyCharm, Microsoft Visual Code, Linux, Shell Scripting, JIRA. Python Developer BCBS - Jacksonville, FL August 2016 to September 2018 Responsibilities:  • Designed front end and backend of the application using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Develop consumer-based features and applications using Python and Django in test driven Development and pair-based programming.  • Good experience in developing web applications and implementing Model View Control (MVC) architecture using server-side applications like Django and Flask.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Java, Bootstrap, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Created interactive data charts on web application using High charts JavaScript library with data coming from Apache  • Worked with AWS S3 service for storage.  • Used Elastic Bean stalk service to Deploy the product in AWS  • Wrote ANSIBLE Playbooks with Python, SSH as the Wrapper to Manage Configurations of AWS Nodes and Test Playbooks on AWS instances using Python. Run Ansible Scripts to provision Dev servers.  • Worked on frontend frameworks like CSS Bootstrap for development of Web application.  • Worked in MySQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization and denormalization.  • Created a full web stack using AWS Infrastructure(Beanstalk, multiple lambdas, Amazon Aurora, API Gateway etc) to create a fully functioning API using GraphQL technology with multiple data sources.  • Used Apache Spark Scala as machine learning language for model creation and predictions using Logistic Regression algorithm  • Coordinated with software team to make use of artificial intelligence and big data analysis methods to work within cross-functional teams to engage the clients and broader customer base  • Used Python based GUI components for the front-end functionality such as selection criteria.  • Connected continuous integration system with GIT version control repository and continually build as the check-in's come from the developer.  • Used Dialogflow for specifying user intents about the various questions that the end user can ask the chatbot/Alexa/Google assistant  • Worked on distributed test automation execution on different environment as part of Continuous Integration Process using Selenium Grid and Jenkins.  • Worked with View Sets in Django-REST framework for providing web services and consumed web services performing CRUD operations.  • Wrote ANSIBLE Playbooks with Python, SSH as the Wrapper to Manage Configurations of AWS Nodes and Test Playbooks on AWS instances using Python. Run Ansible Scripts to provision Dev servers  • Used Flask framework for application development.  • Designed and implemented a dedicated MYSQL database server to drive the webapps and report on daily progress.  • Developed python Script for moving files from drop box to Amazon server  • Consumed external APIs and wrote RESTful API using Django REST Framework and AngularJs.  • Developed views and templates with python and Django view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly Website interface.  • Developed internal project in Flask to generate report from google analytics on daily, monthly and weekly basis.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.    • Used Python Library Beautiful Soup 4 for Web Scraping to extract data for building graphs.    • Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all its commands.    Environment: Python 3.6/2.7, Django 2.0/1.6, HTML5, CSS, AWS, API Gateway, Java, J2EE, REST API, Spring framework, AngularJS, HTML, Amazon S3, CloudWatch, eclipse, MS-SQL Server, GIT, Jira, Jenkins, Confluence. Python Programmer Fifth Third Bank - Cincinnati, OH July 2014 to August 2016 Responsibilities:  • Create an application using Django using RESTful API.  • Ensured high-quality data collection and maintaining the integrity of the data. Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS, and JavaScript. Designed and developed the data management system using MySQL.  • Designed and developed scalable Azure APIs using Flask web framework in Python and Integrated with Azure API Management, Logical Apps and other Azure services.  • Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Involved in hospital projects such as gunshot events and patient readmission. Primarily using R packages for data manipulation, modeling ( machine learning) and reporting.  • Handled all the client-side validation using JavaScript and jQuery.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Collaborated with SaaS teams on AWS cost optimization projects  • Mesos and Kubernetes were used as the best ecosystem to deploy and manage Micro-service.  • Conducted data analysis using Python libraries such as Pandas, Numpy and Matplotlib.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/creating new code.  • Build all Database Mapping classes using Django Generic, Class and functioned based methods.  • File handling for the client data in files like .txt and .xlxs file for data retrieval and storing purpose. Graphical data representation using python modules like NumPy, SciPy, Pandas, Pygal and installed using pip command toolkit.  • Performed data integration, transformation, reduction by developing Spark jobs in Scala  • Data Exchanges and sorting as per customer requirement between Database and Files.  • Enhanced existing automated solutions, such as the Inquiry Tool for automated Asset Department reporting and added new features and fixed bugs.  • Used PEP coding convention for making the code more understandable.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.    Environments: Django, JavaScript, MySQL, NumPy, SciPy, Pandas API, PEP, PIP, unit and regression testing, Rest Framework, Python libraries, Data handling, and sorting. AWS/ Python Developer Blackboard Insurance - New York, NY June 2012 to July 2014 Responsibilities:  • Booting up nodes using prebuilt images on Amazon EC2. Uploading, Copying, Downloading, and Deleting files using Amazon S3.  • Worked on loading CSV/TXT/DAT files using Scala language in Spark Framework to process the data by creating Spark Data frame and RDD and save the file in parquet format in HDFS to load into fact table using ORC Reader.  • Worked on various applications using Python integrated IDEs Eclipse, PyCharm, and Net Beans.  • Designed and developed an entire module called CDC (change data capture) in python and deployed in AWS GLUE using PySpark library and python  • Built database Model, Views and API's using Python for interactive web based solutions.  • Used Python scripts to update the content in database and manipulate files.  • Wrote and executed several complex SQL queries in AWS glue for ETL operations in Spark data frame using SparkSQL.  • Deploy and manage Azure storage for SQL DB's ( SaaS and PaaS applications), SQL Server on Azure, Windows and Linux instances among other azure cloud services  • Automated most of the daily task using python scripting.  • Performed job functions using Spark API's in Scala for real time analysis and for fast querying purposes.  • Involved in converting Hive/SQL queries into Spark transformations using Spark RDDs, Python and Scala.  • As point on the L2 support team worked with application, database, reporting, SQM and project managements team to resolve  • Responsible for user validations on client side as well as server side.  • Automated the existing scripts for performance calculations using Numpy and SQL alchemy.  • Interacted with QA to develop test plans from high-level design documentation.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Implemented Restful Web-Services for sending and receiving the data between multiple systems.  • We used to send text data through us sockets with most API's and JSON.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Developed, tested and debugged software tools utilized by clients and internal customers.  • Coded test programs and evaluated existing engineering processes.    Environment: Linux, Python 2.7, 2.5, Django 1.7, 1.5, HTML5, XML, JavaScript, , MS SQL Server, NoSQL, Amazon s3, Jenkins, Git, Github, JIRA, AWS Services. Network Engineer HBGUSA - Boston, MA May 2010 to June 2012 Responsibilities:  • Configured Cisco Routers for OSPF, IGRP, RIPv2, EIGRP, Static and default route.  • Designed ACLs, VLANs, troubleshooting IP addressing issues and taking back up of the configurations on switches and routers.  • Deploy site class installations of UCCE (Unified Contact Center Enterprise) and other IPT solutions.  • Diagnosed and resolve networking and configuration issues with Cisco VOIP systems.  • Administered Cisco Unity and Cisco Communications Manager 4x/5x;  • Managed day-to-day client and internal service requests and documented all services performed Administration and Deployment of CUCM, DSP Farm Routers, UCCX (8.6, 9.x, 10.x, 11.x).  • Integrating CUCM / Unity with LDAP, Open TAC cases for various issues.  • Performed Administration and Deployment of CUCM.  • Administrator for all global Cisco UCCX servers to help set up the configuration of work flows and reporting support/data pulls.  • Configured and Tested RRM features like CHDM, TPC, DFS for controllers 7500 and 5508  • Switching related tasks included implementing VLANS and configuring ISL trunk on Fast-Ethernet and Gigabit Ethernet channel between switches.  • Working with Network team to resolve QOS and Voice quality deficiencies.  • Planned upgrades for CUIC, CUCM and Unity to 11.5.  • Key contributions include troubleshooting of complex LAN/WAN infrastructure that include routing protocols EIGRP, OSPF & BGP.  • Configuration and troubleshooting of EIGRP, OSPF, BGP, CSM, integration with ASA devices  • Configured & maintained IPSec VPN in Cisco ASA, Palo Alto firewalls.  • Monitoring alerts & events in Cisco IPS.  • Monitoring network devices using HP Network Node Manager.  • Implemented TACACS+ for administering user accounts.  • Responsible for Internal and external accounts and, managing LAN/WAN.    Environment: Cisco 3845/3600/2800 routers, TACACS, EIGRP, RIP, Palo Alto, ASA, Checkpoint, VPN, CUCM, UCCX Education Bachelor's Skills C++, Django, Git, Html, Javascript