SR. Python Developer SR. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Austin, TX • Overall 8 years of industrial experience as professional developer and has more than 4 years of experience in Designing, Developing, Deploying and maintaining web application based on Django - Python platforms  • More than 2 years of experience in developing Web Applications using Django and Flask inclusive of experience in UI using JavaScript, AngularJS and React-Redux.  • Experience in application development using PYTHON, Django, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, and jQuery, MySQL, PostgreSQL and SQLite.  • Designing and developing full-stack applications across multiple platforms using modern industry-adopted languages and frameworks.  • Worked on a new web app built in React and Redux using ES6.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework with GIT.  • Good experience of software development in Python (libraries used: Beautiful Soup, NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib, Pandas data frame, urllib2, MySQL dB for database connectivity) and IDEs - sublime text, PyCharm, Microsoft Visual Code.  • Strong knowledge of Object-Oriented Design and Programming concepts and Experience in Object Oriented Programming (OOP) concepts using Python, C++.  • Experienced in Working on Big Data Integration and Analytics based on Hadoop, Spark and No-SQL databases like HBase and MongoDB.  • Hands-on experience in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment.  • Experience in developing Web Services (REST API) with Python programming language.  • Experience in using Design Patterns such as MVC, Singleton and frameworks such as DJANGO.  • Basic knowledge on Rest API, JSON Parsing, jQuery and Angular JS  • Experience in Shell Scripting, SQL Server, UNIX and Linux.  • Developed consumer-based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML, Behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pair-based programming.  • Good knowledge of Apache server, Apache Server Tomcat, and Web logic in application servers.  • Experience in designing the automation framework using Shell scripting.  • Experience in Amazon Web Services (AWS) cloud platform like EC2, Virtual private clouds (VPCs), Storage models (EBS, S3, instance storage), Elastic Load Balancers (ELBs).  • Created EBS volumes for storing application files for use with EC2 instances whenever they are mounted to them.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Used python scripts to parse XML and JSON reports and load the information in database.  • Designed and developed presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Experienced in writing PERL script to extract data from text files, web automation and converting the file formats.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on SQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Experience with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins  • Experience with Unit testing/ Test driven Development (TDD), Load Testing.  • Used Python library Beautiful Soup for web scrapping.  • Experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and Sprints experience in a Python based environment.  • Highly motivated, dedicated, quick learner and have proven ability to work individually and as a team. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience SR. Python Developer Q2 E-banking, Austin, Texas - Austin, TX July 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators, and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Responsible for setting up Python REST API framework using Django.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Developed web applications in Django Framework model view control (MVC) architecture.  • Used Python to write data into JSON files for testing Django Websites. Created scripts for data modelling and data import and export.  • Used JQuery and Ajax calls for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web based solution.  • Thorough knowledge in various front end tools like HTML, CSS, JavaScript, XML, JQuery, AngularJs, and AJAX. Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  • Used object-relational mapper (ORM) to automate the transfer of data stored in relational databases tables into objects.  • Used Python based GUI components for the front-end functionality such as selection criteria.  • Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) for improved efficiency of storage and fast access.  • Added support for Amazon AWS and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Used PyQuery for selecting DOM elements when parsing HTML.  • Created Business Logic using Python to create Planning and Tracking functions.  • Created UI Screens for initiation and validation.  • Developed multi-threaded standalone app in Python and PHP to view performance.  • Performed data extraction and manipulation over large relational datasets using SQL, Python, and other analytical tools.  • Used Python libraries and SQL queries/subqueries to create several datasets which produced statistics, tables, figures, charts and graphs.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Involved in writing stored procedures using MySQL.  • Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met Implemented a continuous Delivery Pipeline with Jenkins and GitHub to build a new Docker container automatically    Environment: Python, Django, Go language, Shell Scripting, AWS, Pandas, PyQt, PyQuery, Flash, DOM, JSON, PHP, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, Bootstrap, Apache Web Server, MYSQL, GitHub, LINUX.. Python Developer UPS - Atlanta, GA June 2015 to July 2017 Responsibilities:  • Worked on predictive analytics use-cases using R language.  • Use Python unit and functional testing modules such as unit test, unittest2, mock, and custom frameworks in-line with Agile Software Development methodologies.  • Added licensing feature for 3 products CVU'S, CCLEAR, CSTOR from scratch by going through most modules of code runs at backend and created html pages to view the EULA (End User License Agreement).  • Developed micro services API'S for an individual module and exposed the results in JSON format using Bottle framework.  • Involved in development of testing frameworks, used selenium web driver for Automation.  • Worked with Docker Container, have setup an environment and used accordingly.  • Wrote Python code embedded with JSON and XML to produce HTTP GET and POST requests for parsing HTML data from website.  • Used JIRA for issue tracking and bug tracking for each individual sprint and used confluence to create design documents.  • Installed Hadoop, Map Reduce, HDFS, and AWS and developed multiple MapReduce jobs in PIG and Hive for data cleaning and pre-processing.  • Manage datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL, queried MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package to retrieve information.  • Involved in the Web/Application development using Python 3.5, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JSON and JQuery.  • Develop and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Java, Bootstrap, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Generate Python Django forms to record data of online users and used PyTest for writing test cases.  • Implemented and modified various SQL queries and Functions, Cursors and Triggers as per the client requirements.  • Clean data and processed third party spending data into maneuverable deliverables within specific format with Excel macros and python libraries such as NumPy, SQL Alchemy and Matplotlib.  • Used Pandas as API to put the data as time series and tabular format for manipulation and retrieval of data.  • Helped with the migration from the old server to Jira database (Matching Fields) with Python scripts for transferring and verifying the information.  • Analyze Format data using Machine Learning algorithm by Python Scikit-Learn.  • Experience in python, Jupyter, Scientific computing stack (NumPy, SciPy, panda sand Matplotlib).  • Perform troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  • Write Python scripts to parse JSON documents and load the data in database.  • Generating various capacity planning reports (graphical) using Python packages like Numpy, Matplotlib.  • Analyzing various logs that are been generating and predicting/forecasting next occurrence of event with various Python libraries.  • Developed single page application by using Angular JS backed by MongoDB and NodeJs.  • Design and maintain databases using Python and developed Python based API (RESTful Web Service) using Flask, SQL Alchemy and PostgreSQL.  • Manage code versioning with GitHub, Bit Bucket and deployment to staging and production servers and implement MVC architecture in developing the web application with the help of Django framework.  • Use Celery as task queue and RabbitMQ, Redis as messaging broker to execute asynchronous tasks.  • Design and manage API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture.  • Develop remote integration with third party platforms by using RESTful web services and Successful implementation of Apache Spark and Spark Streaming applications for large scale data.  • Built various graphs for business decision making using Python mat plotlib library.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Export Test case Scripts and modified the selenium scripts and executed in Selenium environment.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Scraping website using Python Beautiful Soup, and then parsed it with XML.  • Outputting the parsed data as JSON/BSON and stored into MongoDB.  • Used NLTK and StanfordNLP to process text data and created offline intelligence.  • Querying data from MongoDB and use them as input for the machine learning models.  • Using AWS for application deployment and configuration.  • Wrote UNIX shell scripting for automation.  • Developed views and templates with Django view controller and template Language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Used JavaScript and JSON to update a portion of a webpage.  • Develop consumer-based features using Django, HTML and Test-Driven Development (TDD).  • Increase the speed of pre-existing search indexes through Django ORM optimizations.  • Develop module to build Django ORM queries that can pre-load data to greatly reduce the number of databases queries needed to retrieve the same amount of data.    Environment: Python, Django, HTML5/CSS, PostgreSQL, MS SQL Server 2013, MySQL, JavaScript, Jupyter Notebook, VIM, PyCharm, Shell Scripting, Angular.JS, JIRA. Python Developer NIKE, Salem, OREGAN May 2013 to May 2015 Responsibilities:  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Used Query and Ajax calls for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing python, in order to build an interactive web based solution.  • Used python based GUI components for the front-end functionality such as selection criteria.  • Created test harness to enable comprehensive testing utilizing python.  • Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) for improved efficiency of storage and fast access.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Involved in front end and utilized Bootstrap and Angular.js for page design.  • Created Data tables utilizing PyQt to display customer and policy information and add, delete, update customer records.  • Used PyQuery for selecting particular DOM elements when parsing HTML.  • Used Wireshark, live http headers, and Fiddler debugging proxy to debug the Flash object and help the developer create a functional component.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Having very good experience with BIG DATA.  • Created Business Logic using python to create Planning and Tracking functions.  • Created UI Screens for initiation and validation.  • Worked on UI using HTML5, CSS3 and Java Scripts.  • Developed multi-threaded standalone app in python and PHP to view performance.  • Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis.  • Developed tools using python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Working in team of Architects and Developers to build and deploy python Flask Peewee Linux AWS.  • Version control using GItHUB.  • Involved in writing stored procedures using MySQL.  • Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Developed tools using python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Developed Business Logic using python on Django Web Framework.  • Developed views and templates with python and Django's view controller and templating language to create.  • Responsible for creating company's internal platform called DCAE by using python to develop and test the components.  • Worked with various Python libraries such as Six, Click, Pandas and Matplotlib for analysis and manipulation of data.  • Used Click package to create the command line interface.  • Designed Docker proof-of-concept using Hashicorp's Nomad and Consul.  • Used Consul for Service Discovery and to create Key-Value pair.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse JSON files and load the data into the Consul.  • Used Python IDE Pycharm for developing the code and performing unit test.  • Involved in development using Python, bug fixing.  • Developed web-based applications using Python, Django, XML, CSS, HTML, and DHTML.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Used AWS for application deployment and configuration.  • Responsible for Design and maintenance of databases using Python. Developed Python based APIs by using Flask, SQL Alchemy and PostgreSQL.  • Worked on HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AngularJS, Node.JS, Git, REST API, intellij IDEA.  • Development of real-time multi-tasking systems using Python.  • Created data access modules in python.  • Designed, developed, implemented, and maintained solutions for using Git and GitHub for microservices and continuous deployment.  • Involved in Developing a Restful API'S service using Python Flask framework Created UI Screens for initiation and validation.    Environment: Python, Django, Shell Scripting, AWS, Pandas, PyQt, PyQuery, Wire shark, Flash, DOM, JSON, PHP, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JavaScript, Angular.js, Bootstrap, Apache Web Server, MYSQL, GitHub, LINUX Python Developer GENFARE - Naperville, IL August 2012 to April 2013 Responsibilities:  • Involved in different layers such as Front and Back end  • Developing Web Applications with W3C, XHTML, HTML5, PHP, CSS3 standards and using Python, Django.  • Worked on Payment Processing which involves monitoring payments and provide required solutions.  • Involved in the complete software life cycle (SDLC) to develop the web application.  • Coding application using Python, Django in End-to-End Web application development using MVC architecture while front-end is built on CSS3 and HTML5.  • Used Test Driven Approach for developing the application and implemented the unit tests using Python Unit Test framework called PyUnit.  • Designed Database Model for the entire application Creating tables, Views and Stored procedures.  • Implementation of client side validations using JQuery, Angular JS and ASP.NET MVC Validation implemented at Controller level.  • Designed and developed various abstract classes, interfaces, classes to construct the business logic using C# .NET.  • Develop consumer-based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML, Behavior Drive Development (BDD) and pair-based programming.  • Performed Unit testing, Integration Testing, GUI and web application testing using Spec.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Experience with advanced CSS concepts and building table-free layouts.  • Worked on front-end frameworks like CSS Bootstrap for development of Web applications.  • Experienced in writing SQL Queries and implementing stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, Cursors, triggers.  • Created Database Schema for MySQL Database and involved in designing ER-Diagrams using Microsoft Visio.  • Worked on Restful API's to access the third party data for the internal analysis and statistical representation of that data.  • Worked on Pandas to import the data, Sort and plot the statistical data using histograms.  • Worked on Python Scripts to create Excel and CSV files for documenting the Statistical Reports.  • Used Pandas for Statistical Analysis in the application and Numpy for the advance math functionalities.  • Experience with Python Libraries such as HTTPLib2, Urllib.  • Used GitHub for Version Control System and deployed the project code into Heroku.  • Worked on XML documents based on XML Schema definition (XSD) with python scripts to load the data to database.  • Designed the architecture of the hardware environments and methodology of the code.  • Used JavaScript for Dynamic Page Functionality, popup screens and the user entry validations.  • Developed Reusable classes in the middleware using Hibernate.    Environment: Python, Django 1.7, HTML5, CSS3, Ruby, JIRA, TDD, AJAX, JQuery, JavaScript, AWS, MySQL, Angular JS, Linux, Apache, XML, Git PYTHON DEVELOPER Eclature Technologies - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2011 to June 2012 Responsibilities:  • Wrote Python routines to log into the websites and fetch data for selected options.  • Implemented code in Python to retrieve and manipulate data.  • Used Python modules such as requests, urllib, and urllib2 for web crawling.  • Used other packages such as Beautiful soup for data parsing.  • Worked on writing and as well as read data from CSV and excel file formats using Python.  • Web-services backend development using Python (CherryPy, Django, SQL Alchemy).  • Worked on resulting reports of the application and Tableau reports.  • Participated in developing the company's internal framework on Python. This framework became a basement for the quick service's development.  • Worked on HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AngularJS, Node.JS, Git, REST API, and MongoDB.  • Design and setting up of the environment of MongoDB with shards and replica sets (Dev/Test and productions).  • Designed and developed components using Python with Django framework.  • Private VPN using Ubuntu, Python, Django, CherryPy, Bootstrap, jQuery.  • Created a Python-based GUI application for Freight Tracking and processing.  • Experience in designing and developing applications in Spark using Scala.  • Wrote scripts in Python for extracting data from HTML file.  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing of documents, data exchange and business logic implementation between servers.  • Developed rich user interface using CSS, HTML, JavaScript, and jQuery.  • Participated in the complete SDLC process.  • Worked on automating the repetitive tasks using Ansible.  • Extracting acting data from the database using SAS/Access, SAS SQL procedures and create SAS data sets.  • Created and modified PL/SQL scripts for data conversions.  • Developed and maintained various automated web tools for reducing manual effort and increasing efficiency of the Global Shipping Team.  • Created database using MySQL, wrote several queries to extract data from the database.  • Communicated effectively with the external vendors to resolve queries.  • Held meetings with client and worked all alone for the entire project with limited help from the    Environment: Python, Django, MySQL, Windows, Linux, HTML, CSS, jQuery, JavaScript, Apache, Linux, Quality Centre, Ansible, PL/SQL. Education Bachelor's Skills C++, Django, Git, Html, Javascript