Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - BCBS ? Over 9 years of experience as a Web/Application Developer with deep understanding of technology trends with expertise in core of complex technologies. Solid experience in Analysis, Design and Development, Testing, Implementation, production support and maintenance of various Web Applications using Python, Django.  ? Extensive experience in Requirement Analysis, Application Design & Development and profound knowledge on SDLC using agile and V-model.  ? Experienced in working with various Python IDE's using PyCharm, PyScripter, Spyder, PyStudio and PyDev.  ? Experienced in developing Web-based Applications using Python, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, Angular JS and jQuery.  ? Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  ? Good knowledge of Web Services with protocols SOAP, REST.  ? Experience in using third party tools like Telerik, DevExpress and kendo Controls.  ? Experience with containerizing applications using Docker and Vagrant.  ? Database development experience with Microsoft SQL Server in OLTP/OLAP environments using integration services (ssis) for ETL.  ? Experience in DTS packages migration and creating complex SSIS for ETL purposes including data migration, data extraction/transformation/loading (ETL)  ? Profiled python code for optimization and memory management.  ? Skilled experience in Python with using new tools and technical developments (Libraries Used: libraries- Beautiful Soup, Jasy, NumPy, Scipy, Matplotlib, Pickle, PySide, Pandas dataframe, networkX, urllib2, Pychart, High charts) to drive improvements throughout entire SDLC.  ? Involved in Unit testing, Integration testing, User-Acceptance testing, and Functional testing.  ? Experienced in web applications development using Django/ Python, Flask/ Python, and Node.js, Angular.js, DOJO, jQuery while using HTML/CSS/JS for server-side rendered applications.  ? Experienced in developing API services in Python/Tornado, NodeJS while leveraging AMQP and RabbitMQ for distributed architectures.  ? Expertise in developing web-based applications using libraries and frameworks like Angular JS, Bootstrap, jQuery, Ruby on Rails, Knockout.js, Node Js, Backbone.js, React JS, D3 JS and Require JS.  ? Having experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  ? Having working Knowledge of Amazon AWS S3.  ? Worked extensively on Big Data analytical models developed in Python.  ? Sound knowledge in spring, Hibernate, RDBMS, Web, XML, Ant/Maven, HTML, Python, Shell Scripting.  ? Extensive use of Object Oriented design methodology and Agile in software development.  ? Extensive experience in Building web applications using Kendo UI widgets, jQuery, Angular JS.  ? Experience object oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, C++ and PHP.  ? Experienced in NoSQL technologies like MongoDB, CouchDB Cassandra, Redis and relational databases like Oracle, SQLite, PostgreSQL and MySQL databases.  ? Experience on Web development using HTML4/5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Angular JS, AJAX, XML and JSON by following W3C standards.  ? Experience in developing applications using Amazon web services like EC2, Cloud Search, Elastic Load balancer ELB, S3, CloudFront, Route 53.  ? Extensive development experience in Java, Struts, JSPs, Servlets, taglibs, Hibernate, JDBC, HTML, JavaScript, SQL, XML and JSON.  ? Developed J2EE applications on IDE's like Eclipse, PyCharm, My Eclipse, Google GWT, and Rational Application Developer.  ? Proficient in developing multi-threaded web services using CherryPy&bottlePy framework.  ? Leveraging queuing architectures with RabbitMQ for scalability, performance and building.  ? Knowledge in working with continuous deployment using Heroku and Jenkins.  ? Knowledge on Cloud innovations including Infrastructure as a Service, Platform as a Service, and Software as a Service supplier (Iaas, PaaS, and SaaS)  ? Proficient in writing unit testing code using Unit Test/PyTest and integrating the test code with the build process.  ? Worked on Python Testing frameworks like zope, pytest, nose and Robot framework.  ? Well versed with Agile with SCRUM, Waterfall Model and Test driven development methodologies.  ? Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache.  ? Proficient in creating front end-systems using JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap, HTML5, CSS3 and MVC frameworks such as Angular.js and Node.js.  ? Familiar with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services.  ? Developed web applications and RESTful web services and APIs using Python Flask, Django and PHP.  ? Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer BCBS - Philadelphia, PA May 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Created server-monitoring daemon with Psutil, supported by Django app for analytics, which I created. Also researched big data solutions with Cassandradatabase.  ? Worked on development of customer support and complains registration system. This is a Customer feedback and complains management system.  ? Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website.  ? Coding and execution of scripts in Python/Unix/VB  ? Development of Application using Java and Python  ? Recording of Scripts (Web, Web Services HTML) using Vugen and SoapUI and script validation through co correlations, parameterizations and other methods. Scripting - web and web services  ? Data set up using SQL/ORACLE/Teradata.  ? Resolving Complexity in the scripts of the website due to the complex logic and correlations  ? Script validation sometimes becomes challenging as it demanded many web based logic rather than correlation and parameterization.  ? Running load/endurance tests using Vugen, ALM and controller, server monitoring, analysis using Dyanatarce, UNIX putty, SQL logs and other tools and reporting the performance. Analyzing errors and exceptions using putty logs (UNIX), etc.  ? Testing in citrix protocol with scripts and scenario.  ? Execution of batch jobs in Control M, Perfmon and other tools  ? Scripting and validation of scripts through correlation, parameterization and web based logic testing (Smoke test, Load test, Endurance) using Controller for a duration further analysis, checking response times, CPU utilizations, memory leaks of servers and other performance characteristics of the website through capturing Perfmon logs and creating PAPAL reports and creating test reports.  ? Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  ? Rewrite existing Python/Django/Java module to deliver certain format of data  ? Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  ? Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  ? Generated property list for every application dynamically using python.  ? Responsible for search engine optimization (SEO) to improve the visibility of the website handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  ? Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code  ? Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  ? Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  Environment: Python 2.7, C+, HP LOAD (VUGEN, Controller, etc.) Putty, SQL, Teradata, SoapUI, ControlM, Perfmon, Django Web Framework, MySQL, Linux, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, Apache Web Server. Django Developer Hanover Insurance Group - Boston, MA April 2016 to May 2017 Responsibilities:  ? Used Django framework for application development.  ? Developed user interface using, CSS, HTML, JavaScript and JQuery and Django.  ? Assisted in reduction of cost and optimization of supplier selection for the CRM Applications. Also used methods for cross application use using the Class Builder and Object Oriented programming. Generated an API Reference guide to help application developers for creating the software applications to store data using DDN S3 (compatible with Amazon S3 API) or DDN OpenStack Swift API calls.  ? Ensured high quality data collection and maintaining the integrity of the data.  ? Cleaned data and processed third party spending data into maneuverable deliverables within specific formats with Excel macros and python libraries. Used TDD (Test driven development) methodology.  ? Used several python libraries like wxPython, NumPy and Matplotlib.  ? Was involved in environment, code installation as well as the SVN implementation.  ? Build all database mapping classes using Django models and Cassandra.  ? UsedPandasAPI to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  ? Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  ? Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  ? This project also used other technologies like JQuery for javascript manipulations, bootstrap for the front-end html layout.  ? Designed and configured database and backend applications and programs.  Environment: Python, Django, Cassandra, JavaScript, RabbitMQ, Soapui, Node.JS, wxPython, NumPy, PandasAPI, PyDev, Agile. Sr. Python Developer Citigroup - Plano, TX March 2015 to April 2016 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in the development of front end of the application using Python 2.7, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JSON and JQuery and worked on backend of the application, mainly using Active Records.  ? Developed dynamic web pages using Python, Django Frameworks.  ? Developed monitoring and notification tools using Python.  ? Improved the application by designing and developing it using HTML and JavaScript.  ? Used data structures like directories, topples, object oriented class based inheritance features for making complex algorithms of networks.  ? Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing python, in order to build an interactive web based solution.  ? Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users.  ? Created Data tables utilizing PyQt to display patient and policy information and add, delete, update patient records.  ? Wrote a Python module to connect and view the status of an Apache Cassandra instance.  ? Experience defining data objects, models and data definitions for Financial business systems by mapping its various components as required for Data Migration/Conversion/Integration.  ? Design & create ETL processes as needed to meet business requirements and ensure successful data migration for project implementation.  ? Perform Data Profiling, Assessment, and Data Cleansing as required to meet data migration goals.  ? Developed MVC prototype replacement of current product with Django.  ? Significantly improved report generation efficiency by caching, reusing and improve the security level of data.  ? Worked on automation and continuous integration process with Cloud bees Enterprise Jenkins.  ? Used Jenkins for Continuous Integration and deployment into Tomcat Application Server.  ? Installed and configured Jenkins for Automating Deployments and providing an automation solution.  ? Integrated GIT into Jenkins to automate the code check-out process.  ? Wrote scripts to integrate API's with third party applications. Python/Django based web application, PostgreSQL, and integrations with third party email, messaging, storage services.  ? Wrote Python normalizations scripts to find duplicate data in different environments.  ? Used Jenkins for automating Builds and Automating Deployments. Used Jenkins for the continuous integration process, automation and assisted in the code coverage and analysis by generating reports  ? Followed Agile Methodologies to manage full life-cycle development of the project and used JIRA to keep track of the ? Managed builds and wrote Build scripts for JAVA and WebSphere based applications.  ? Create and setup automated nightly build environment for Java projects using Maven.  ? Performed the development in using LAMP and WAMP open source web service stacks.  ? Engaged in understanding PHP Code and re-build the code in Python.  ? Worked on serializing data using Serializes in DjangoRest Framework.  ? Rewrite existing Java, C++ application in Python.  ? Generated Python Django forms to record data of online users and used PyTestfor writing test cases.  ? Implementing change requests raised by user for server configuration, kernel tuning, software installation and OS hardening, Managing Linux VMs using Puppet as per some projects requirement.  ? Used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  ? Developed Python OO Design code for manufacturing quality, monitoring, logging, and debugging code optimization.  ? Responsible for analysis, design, development and integration of Market Risk applications with FLEX/JAVA/ PYTHON.  ? Used Python to place data into JSON files for testing Django Websites.  ? Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web based solution.  ? Wrote Python routines to log into the websites and fetch data for selected options.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django, Beautifulsoup, HTML5, AWS, CSS/CSS3, Bootstrap, XML, JSON, JavaScript, JQuery, Restful Web services, Apache, Linux, Git, Amazon s3, Jenkins, MySQL, Mongo DB, T-SQL, Eclipse.. Sr. Python Developer Quest Diagnostics Inc - Norristown, PA, US February 2014 to March 2015 Responsibilities:  ? Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  ? Utilized Python libraries wxPython, NumPy, Twisted and Matplotlib.  ? Developed API modularizing existing python module with the help of pyyaml libraries.  ? Used JavaScript data visualization framework (D3.js) to display the information in a chart view.  ? Developing Web Services with Python programming language.  ? Created custom directives in Angular JS for re-usable components (multi-field form elements, background file uploads)  ? Involved in various phases of the project like Analysis, Design, Development, and Testing.  ? Developed rich user interface using CSS, HTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  ? Developed a Front-End GUIas stand-alone Python application.  ? Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  ? Wrote Python scripts to parse JSON documents and load the data in database.  ? Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  ? Worked on Anti Money Laundering (AML) application to develop new modules to build reports for identifying various accounts and activities.  ? Generating various capacity planning reports (graphical) using Python packages like NumPy, Matplotlib.  ? Analyzing various logs that are been generating and predicting/forecasting next occurrence of event with various Python libraries.  ? Used Pandas library for statistics Analysis. Used NumPy for Numerical analysis for Insurance premium and Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  ? Designed and maintained databases using Python and developed Python based API (RESTful Web Service) using Flask, SQL Alchemy and PostgreSQL.  ? Managed code versioning with GitHub, Bit Bucket and deployment to staging and production servers and Implemented MVC architecture in developing the web application with the help of Django framework.  ? Used Celery as task queue and RabbitMQ, Redis as messaging broker to execute asynchronous tasks.  ? Worked with PYTHON, MYSQL, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX and XHTML to build a fully Web 2.0 compliant social networking website around online HD streaming video.  ? Worked on Django API's for accessing the database.  ? Developed Views and Templates with Python and using Django's view controller and template language, Website interface is created.  ? Designed and Developed User Interface using front-end technologies like HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS, Bootstrap and JSON.  ? Created Django dashboard with custom look and feel for end user after a careful study of Django admin site and dashboard.  ? Python Unit test library was used for the purpose of testing many programs on Python and other codes.  ? Performed different testing methods like unit testing, Integration testing, web application testing and selenium testing.  ? Performed Flow Control, response to Front-End Request using PYTHON/MYSQL/AJAX.  ? Implemented business logic in Python to prevent, detect and claim the duplicate payments.  ? Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  ? Build all database mapping classes using Django models.  ? Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  ? Worked with JSON based REST Webservices and Amazon Web Services.  ? Used Jenkins to deploy your Django application and run unit tests.  Environment: Python 3.4/2.7, Django 1.9, Python scripting, NoSql, MongoDB, MySQL, AJAX, SOAP, REST, JQuery, JavaScript, Bootstrap, AWS (EC2, S3, RDS) Python Developer Btree Solutions Inc - Baltimore, MD, US January 2013 to February 2014 Responsibilities:  ? Translated the customer requirements into design specifications and ensured that the requirements translate into software solution.  ? Wrote Python routines to log into the websites and fetch data for selected options.  ? Built application logic using Python 2.7.  ? Install and Configure Linux with Apache, Oracle 8I and PHP (LAMP Project) and web services and Amazon Web services (AWS)  ? Performed web testing and automated testing using Selenium in the test environment and opened bugs in the bug tracking tool.  ? Developed high availability real time Messaging system for financial/Banking transactions and developed associated components in Linux, UNIX, AIX platforms. Tools C++, STL, BOOST, XML (XPath and XSLT) IBM MQlibraries, Perl, Python scripting  ? Developed Real-time messaging system for new payment framework for Linux, UNIX (HP), AIX OS platforms.  ? Knowledge of the Server, Network, and Hosting Environment.  ? Involved in Developing a Restful API'S service using Python Flask framework.  ? Developed GUI HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS 5 and JavaScript (jQuery)  ? Writing SOAP and Restful web services, in house ESB for a web Claims applications (SpringMVC, Angular JS, ActiveMQ, SOAP UI, Mockito, JSON, Build forge)  ? Worked onpython based test frameworks and test driven development with automation tools  ? Held meetings with client and worked all alone for the entire project with limited help from the client.  ? Used Ansible for automating cloud deployment process.  ? Worked on Jenkins continuous integration tool for deployment of project.  Environment: Linux, Python, Mod Python, PHP, MySQL, JavaScript, Ajax, Shell Script, HTML, CSS.8