Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer Elmsford, NY • Overall 3 years of experience in Analysis, Design, Development and support of various  software applications as a developer using Java and Big Data technologies.  • Experience in Cloud Environment and Big Data.  • Experience in developing and deploying real time/batch applications on production front and  consumption using HDFS, MongoDB, MapReduce, Spark and Hive.  • Experience working with open source and proprietary ETL framework for big data to  perform data cleansing, integration, quality and ingestion into various systems.  • Expertise in building and deploying Java RESTful web services.  • Comprehensive knowledge and experience in SQL, PL/SQL, Oracle, DB2.  • Hands on experience working on Spark SQL and Data Frame  • Excellent Communication skills, Quick Learner, Committed, Team Player and ability adapt  to new environments. Work Experience Software Developer Sparity INC - Center Valley, PA September 2015 to April 2017 Olympus America Inc. Software Developer Sparity INC - Hyderabad, Telangana September 2012 to December 2013 • Analyzed, Designed and Developed ARRA (American Recovery and Reinvestment Act)  compliance endoscope GUI using J2EE.  • Designed, Developed Physician Quality Reporting System using Angular JS, jQuery and Java REST API.  • Processed the data using Hive and SPARK to create data processing pipeline.  • Implemented Asymmetric Cryptography to secure the patient related documents in the application transaction.  • Involved in performance analysis and tuning.  • Involved in the day to day discussions with business team and preparing LLDs, HLDs and flow charts of the application.  Sparity INC Hyderabad, INDIA  Software Developer Sep 2012 - Dec 2013  • Developed live EMS monitoring web application using jQuery and J2EE.  • Implemented feature enhancements to TIBCO EMS admin using JSP, JSF and J2EE  • Analyzing memory using JAVA Console and using heap analysis tools like EMA  (Eclipse Memory Analyzer). Education Master of Computer Applications in Computer Applications Osmania University - Hyderabad, Telangana September 2012 Bachelor of Science in Science and Computers Kakatiya University - Karimnagar, Telangana June 2009