Project Engineer Project Engineer Project Engineer- PARADIGMA Atlanta, GA Software engineer with over 6 years working at banking & services sectors, both as a software provider and software reviewer. With experience in OOP, developing desktop applications using VBA and different web applications using C# .NET, ASP.NET, ASP.NET MVC, JavaScript and jQuery with Microsoft SQL Server databases. Additional knowledge in Java SE, Java EE, Oracle databases, classical and agile software development methodologies, as well as in each of the stages of the software development life cycle (SDLC). A professional oriented to solve user needs from a comprehensive perspective, who enjoys solving problems, learning and collaborate as a team. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Project Engineer PARADIGMA - Bogotá, CO January 2015 to Present Work in the SDLC for several clients of the company, most of them, banks, mainly from the role of software  developer, using C# to create the processing logic to read and manage different kinds of input files to the core  processing system and to customized PDF, XLS and PS (Postscript files) logical presentation libraries;  ASP.NET and ASP.NET.MVC, to generate the user interfaces, statistical reports and business logic of various  software modules and MS SQL Server to design and implement the components that support the database  layer of the company products. Has been obtained and maintained by part of the clients an average rating of  4.7 / 5 in customer satisfaction.  • Migration of products written in c++ to c# and versioning of several modules, adding value to the functionality, reliability, usability, efficiency, maintainability and portability of the main software.  • Propose and implement technological (user interface interactions) and methodological (remote work)  improvements, succeeding in adding value to the operability of the products reflected in the excellent  qualification by the main client and the business with the expansion of its human resources, improvement in productivity and reduction of infrastructure costs. Professional Developer Analyst BANCO DE OCCIDENTE - Bogotá, CO January 2013 to January 2015 Analysis and design of the project: "tax certificates for personal and intermediate banking". The dynamics of sending, receiving and managing information in the applications involved as well as the Web Services  exposed by these were established, achieving the logic of integral processing in an efficient and safe way to meet the functional and non-functional needs of the requirement.  • Maintenance at application and database levels using JAVA SE, JAVA EE and Oracle DB, in the software:  "adjustment and conciliation of electronic channels" that allowed general and performance improvements.  • Management and configuration of internal systems of the entity, due to the entry, elimination and merger of financial entities, complying on time with the financial system regulations.  • Creation and execution of the test plan for the project: "management of guarantees in Leasing" using AS/400,  which ensured compliance with the circular of the regulatory financial institution.  • Ensure guidelines and management of corrections based on the PL/SQL and JAVA SE best practices  company document, at code level of application and database objects made by suppliers, ensuring the quality of software delivered. Software Developer SIEMENS ENTERPRISE COMMUNICATIONS - Bogotá, CO January 2012 to December 2012 Complete creation of customized software for the distribution of resources for the company services area  using VBA and Access. Carrying out the SDLC and the technical and user documentation. Obtaining  streamlining of administrative processes, facilitating the management of purchases, avoiding errors in billing and the execution of tasks by technicians.  • The project plan, risk analysis and general management of the project were carried out, in order to meet the  client's expectations on time increasing productivity by 20%  • The integration between the developed software and other existing systems was analyzed, identifying the factors with the greatest impact to execute adding important portability features. Education Bachelor of Systems Engineering in Systems Engineering UNIVERSIDAD AUTONOMA DE COLOMBIA - Bogotá, CO December 2013 Skills C#, .Net, MVC