Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer Work Experience Software Developer April 2019 to September 2019 take over Earth? Let's not wait to find out.  An immersive six month bootcamp, with a focus on collaborative learning, and hands-on problem solving. Orbit is an application that enthusiasts can  use to prepare for an alien invasion. Pack a virtual survival pack, share theories with  Technologies: HTML5 CSS3 JAVASCRIPT REACT C# .NET other users, and find transportation out of an invaded city. Orbit is my first individual  EXPERIENCE IN: React application, and building it taught  me a lot about data relationships, state  Object-oriented programming  management, and routing.  Translating requirements into appropriate technical designs, and breaking down assignments into manageable tasks and schedule estimates React.js, Reactstrap, Firebase,  Identifying the root of bugs and providing solutions, often coming in the form of refactoring processes in a Google Geocode & Public  more streamlined way Transit APIs  Modular software development    Application design through white-boarding dependencies and building Entity Relationship Diagrams ABOUT ME  Utilizing React.js to create sleek, user-friendly single page applications Software development checks all of the Asynchronous applications, utilizing JSON to send and retrieve data boxes on my list of "things I want in a  career." Having recently graduated with a Working with data from REST APIs  music degree from Belmont University, I  Operating in group work environment, including daily stand-up meetings, regular communication, task started taking online coding course for management, and source code version control with GitHub. fun. The excitement it gave me turned into a commitment to pursue development  GROUP PROJECTS: full time. Coding has changed the way that  I problem solve in the real world, and has  Front End  made me a firm believer in the power of Created two versions of a one page social media application called Nutshell. Nutshell includes task manager, consistent, challenging, mental  event planner, and message board functionality. stimulation. It's a privilege to get to open  Nutshell 1.0 github.com/emilyloggins/nutshell-vanilla-js my laptop and create everyday.    Built using vanilla Javascript and Bootstrap. Individually responsible for building the task feature.    Nutshell 2.0 github.com/emilyloggins/nutshell-react EDUCATION  Built using React and ReactStrap component library in four days. Planned as a group to create a vision for Nashville Software School 2019  achieving CRUD functionality in a user-friendly way. Individually responsible for user authentication.  Full Stack Web Development Bootcamp  Back End Manager Climb Nashville June 2018 to June 2019 Lead the desk staff by delegating tasks and holding employees accountable 404.375.2921  Maintained an uplifting environment while still prioritizing safety for guests and staff emilyloggins1@gmail.com  Resolved guest conflicts  linkedin.com/in/emilyloggins  Managed three cash drawers and successfully counted and transferred daily funds into the safe. Desk Staff April 2018 to May 2018 In charge of keeping the facility clean throughout the day and before closing.    Interacted with customers in the form of giving safety orientations, recommending climbing gear, and selling day passes Trestlebridge Farms 2014 to 2018 The team inherited a C# code base, and was tasked with refactoring and building upon it to create a fully Bachelor of Music  functional console application. The application handles resource purchasing and field capacity management.