Sr .Net Developer Sr .Net <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr .Net Developer - E4Health Inc Dallas, TX • Over 8+ years of experience in Financial, Technology and Retail Automation in System Analysis, design, Development, Research, and Implementation of various applications related to Client/Server, n-tier and Internet technologies.  • Expertise in developing web based and window based applications using C#.Net, VB.Net, ASP.Net, WinForms.  • Experience with all the phases of software development life cycle (SDLC).  • Architected application and created snapshots using Model-View-View-Model (MVVM) for Windows Presentation Foundation (WPF) and used SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS) for functional requirement phase.  • Working experience on projects using the latest Microsoft technologies such as Visual Studio .NET, C#. NET, ASP.NET, VB.NET ADO.NET, XML Web Services, Visual Basic 6.0 and SQL Server.  • Experience in developing Web based applications such as Visual Studio. NET, C#, ADO.NET, ASP.NET, VB.NET, Web Services, Visual Studio 6.0, Visual SourceSafe, C++, ASP, COM, ActiveX controls, HTML, VBScript, JavaScript with Class modules.  • Experience in Data Base design and modeling.  • Worked with MVVM pattern and developed view-models using typescript.  • Experience in writing Stored Procedures, Triggers, Views, DTS packages and SSIS packages on MS SQL Server 2012/2010/2008/2005.  • Experience in designing complex reports including sub reports and formulas with complex logic using SQL Reporting Services on SQL Server 2012/2010/2008 and Crystal Reports 9/XI.  • Experience in developing applications using WCF and WPF.  • Worked on some of the phases of data warehouse development lifecycle, from gathering requirements to testing, implementation, and support.  • Hands on working Knowledge in .Net Technologies C#, ASP.Net, ADO.Net, Web Services, PL/SQL.  • Experience in designing web pages using ASP.NET AJAX.  • Developed using N-Tier Architecture, Multi-threading, Event handling and OOPS concepts, including Abstract classes-interfaces-inheritances.  • Experience in developing ASP.NET Web customs controls, user controls, Data Controls like Data Grid, Rich UI with extensive use of hand coded experience on ASP.NET, AJAX, Angular JS, Bootstrap and JQuery.  • Experienced in developing applications on WPF using Visual Studio Expression Blend.  • Extensive experience in design using OOP's Concepts like Encapsulation, Inheritance, Polymorphism, Abstraction and Design Patterns like MVVM, MVC, MVP.  • Experience on UI Design using TELERIK controls, Razor, Bootstrap, and AJAX control toolkit.  • Experience in developing ASP.NET Web customs controls, user controls, Data Controls like Data Grid, Rich UI with extensive use of hand coded experience on ASP.NET AJAX, Knockout JS.  • Developed, configured, and deployed a variety of .net Framework Applications including Win Forms, Web Services, Web Forms, and Windows Services.  • Experienced in WinForms application development using C#, ADO.NET.  • Having exposure to LINQ Concepts in .NET Framework 3.5/4.  • Good experience in designing WCF Web Services and WPF to build windows client applications.  • Having good experience in Test Driven and Agile Development.  • Have Development and performance tuning experience working as a Database Developer.  • Experience in Version Management using Visual Source Safe (VSS), Tortoise SVN and TFS.  • Able to operate both independently and in a team environment.  • Highly dedicated, quick starter, solution driven pattern programmer, Strong in Object Oriented Analysis and Design, Excellent at solving complex problems under strict deadlines.  • Possesses good organizational as well as written and verbal communication skills. Work Experience Sr .Net Developer E4Health Inc - Dallas, TX June 2017 to Present Health Map is a web portal being developed for e4Health Inc. used by a team of center of excellence, who are professional counselors at e4Health. This application replaces the existing legacy system, and provides robust and extendable features that includes advanced provider search, creating appropriate case information, tracking of service requests raised and reporting. Health Map provides different services like, EAP, Wellness, and Care Coordination for members and organizations.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in Leading, designing and development of the web portal from scratch as per the business requirements.  • Involved in developing the various UI pages using Angular Js, JavaScript, Jquery, Bootstrap andHTML5, CSS3, SAAS.  • Involved in setting up the foundation framework for both front-end UI and back-end API development.  • Involved in developing Web API's using C# and Entity Framework.  • Used Dependency Injection and Repository Pattern.  • Used Azure app services and other infrastructure for the application environments.  • Integrated with Azure Blob storage for the application document storage.  • Designed and developed UI with responsive design using Bootstrap themes and AngularJS.  • Integrated with Azure Active Directory and provided the application access through AD.  • Developing application business logic and writing API controllers.  • Actively involved in the database design and setting up the database project, writing SQL Stored Procedures and Views.  • Coded as per the HIPAA and PHI standards.  • Written and executed unit test cases and test plans for the modules developed.  • Worked on bugs raised after every sprint release.  • Involved in build and deployments into various environments.  • Active participation in daily scrum meetings and sprint planning.  • Worked with JIRA and Confluence.  Environment: .Net 4.5, ASP.Net, C#, Web API, MVC5, EF6, Angular JS, JavaScript, jQuery, HTML5, Bootstrap, Grunt, Visual Studio .NET 2015, Sql Server 2012, JIRA, Confluence.. Sr .Net Developer Toyota - Erlanger, KY February 2016 to June 2017 Toyota is a Japanese automotive manufacturer company and it is the world's market leader in sales of hybrid electric vehicles. Toyota is one of the largest companies to encourage the mass-market adoption of hybrid vehicles across the globe. Toyota satisfy in market demand in more than 140 countries and it has a large presence in the United States with 6 major plants.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in interacting with business analysts, other developers and management to develop the application.  • Involved in full lifecycle of the project from design, development & Testing.  • Followed and developed the N-Tier architecture for the business, presentation and data access layers.  • Developed web-based applications using ASP.NET MVC 5.0  • Extensively worked on ADO.NET Entity Framework for developing core data layers for the distributed applications.  • Involved in transferring data from one server to another using SSIS Package.  • Created REST handshake service in Portal side for Micro site (another web sites) to get the complementary device information and redirect the user after the authentication, finished by ASP.Net Web API.  • Developed and consumed WCF Service to access data layer components.  • Developed the application using various patterns including MVC 4.0, Singleton and Dependency Injection.  • Used WCF for designing and deploying distributed applications under (SOA) implementation.  • Implemented Data Binding using Data Context, Object Providers and Implemented Business Logic using WPF Class Library with C# Custom Business Entities.  • Developed WCF services for both Desktop and mobile applications.  • Used and took the advantage of AngularJS, Razor Engine, NuGet Packages, advanced .Net features.  • Design and development of user interface using ASP.NET, VB.Net, HTML, and JavaScript.  • Business Logic has been implemented using the concepts of secure coding features and Object Oriented programming (OOP) with Code behind language C#.NET.  • Utilized Agile Methodology, Continuous Integration, MVC 5.0, Entity Framework 6.0, Telerik, Kendo Framework, C#, .NET 4.5, SQL Server 2012 Git, Javascript and Visual Studio 2013 Pro.  • Involved in maintaining Classic ASP applications.  • Interacted with business analysis, technical lead, team members and production support team for requirement, functional specifications and technical architecture using agile methodology in relation to controlling and recording financial activities.  • Solid experience in developing Single Page Applications (SPA) based on client side JavaScript framework Angular JS, and backbone employing ASP.NET MVC and Web API.  • Implemented AJAX controls in multiple web pages for partial page update.  • Extensively used AJAX framework do asynchronous calls to the server and improve the performance.  • Used JavaScript to create different client side functions that greatly decreased processing time and resource consumption.  • Used JQuery to make it easier to navigate a document, select DOM elements, create animations, handle events, and develop Ajax applications.  • Optimized nHibernate queries by looking at raw SQL generated.  • Used and took advantage of Angular js 2.0 for reducing the need for browser compatibility workarounds.  • Used SAML 2.0 to implement SSO across applications.  • Used .Net Security features such as Authentication and Authorization.  • Worked on the middle tiers in the Billing module of the eCommerce platform.  • Used network analysis capability to model and analyze many kinds of network applications in addition to traditional geographical information systems (GIS) systems.  • Extensively Used TFS (Team Foundation Server) for the maintenance and status of the developers for development of application.  Environment: .NET Framework 4.0/4.5, TFS, MS Visual Studio.NET 2013, VB6.0, C#, ASP.Net 3.5, AJAX, Angular JS, XML web services, WCF, WPF, SOA, Entity Framework6.0, REST, ADO.NET, LINQ, VB.Net, MVC 5.0, CSS 3, SQL Server 2008/2012,Web API, JavaScript, JQuery, nHibernate,bootstrap, Oracle 11g/10g, SAML 2.0, SSO, HTML-5, IIS7.0. Sr .Net Developer CVS Caremark - Woonsocket, RI December 2014 to February 2016 The project deals with development of EIVR (Enterprise Interactive Voice Response) application as a call center by providing them with the information like Claims, ID card, Eligibility, and Benefits. The EIVR is an enhancement to the VRU system and is capable of interacting with the callers both by voice and/or key presses.    Responsibilities:  • Worked in Requirement Collections, Analysis, Development and Customization, Testing of the Application and implementation of the Web Guard in them.  • Involved in developing WCF Web Service using SOAP/HTTP to communicate with legacy systems.  • Worked intensively on production support and escalations during and after releases.  • Responsible for designing the ASP.NET application using .NET Framework ADO.Net Entity framework architecture.  • Designed and developed UI components, implemented event handling using C#, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, and Worked on CSS to get consistent look and feel of the web site.  • Implemented Authenticated and Authorization using proprietary Web Guard in Web.Config file. Configured for users Authorization and role-based security.  • Implemented Generics for creating object collections and extensively implemented for maintaining type safety so that run time errors are reduced.  • Involved in designing desktop module using WPF 3.5.  • Involved in creating the Desktop Applications using the WPF, XAML, and MVVM.  • Modified the VB.net code into C# aspx.  • Good experience in debugging ASP.NET and IIS related issues.  • Develop SCM Script (used Protocols and Prescript) to elevate source code development to production server.  • Provide technical support and debug the bugs while in production 24X7.  • Responsible for maintaining a session of messages between a client and a service using WCF facilities.  • Monitoring IIS application logs, System logs and security logs by using Event Viewer for troubleshooting application Created Web API to Support CRUD operations in an HTTP using ASP.NET Web API.  • Wrote Unit test classes and projects using NUnit Framework  • Implemented Software Configuration Management, setting up company Version policies utilizing Team Foundation Server (TFS)  • Worked with IIS and .Net Global Assembly (GAC)  • Used Microsoft TFS extensively to save to save code changes, perform gated check-ins and to keep track of the assigned user stories.  • Used SQL server as backend and implemented ADO.NET data objects such as Data Adaptor, Data Reader, Dataset, Data table  • Deploying ASP.Net and web applications on IIS 6.0 and on IIS 7.0  Environment:: Visual Studio.NET 2008/2010, .Net Framework 4/ 4.5, ASP.NET, C#, HTML, jQuery, CSS, JavaScript, SQL 2005/2008, WPF, Json, VSS, Agile Methodologies, Team Foundation Server (TFS), IIS 7 .Net Developer United Health Group - Minnetonka, MN November 2013 to December 2014 eMedical System is an online application which has been developed at UHG. The objective of the project was to redesign a hospital management system from a thick client-server application to a thin web-based client. The project was designed for the hospital/clinic to manage their patients, their treatments, their results. The redesigned application can now let patients also login to the system to setup/change their appointment, view their treatment plans and pay their bills.    Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed intranet web application using ASP.NET MVC framework.  • Developed extensive client side scripts and validation functions using JavaScript.  • Followed the Scrum Agile Methodology during development of the project.  • Used custom controls and User controls for designing screens in Client application.  • Used C# multi-threading in developing applications.  • Extensively used AJAX for partial page execution and asynchronous data transfer from web server to the client.  • Extensively created and deployed WCF services, implemented binding, endpoints and service contracts  • Developed user interfaces using Tiles with JSP, HTML and JavaScript.  • Developed several Java Script functions for popup windows and screen printing options.  • Developed the required Business Layer of the application using C#.NET.  • Designed and coded the Win forms and implemented the logic using C#.NET.  • Implemented the whole application based on OOPS concepts by using Classes.  • Involved in creating the unit tests for the application in C#.NET.  • Developed WPF application using Control Templates, Data Templates, Bindings, Converters, and Routed Events, Command bindings, Commands and new features like LINQ and lambda expressions.  • Designed and developed Databases in SQL Server 2005 which includes the development of functions, stored procedures and triggers using PL/SQL.  • Wrote SQL queries and Stored Procedures for accessing data from SQL Server 2005.  • Participated in Test Driven Development (TDD) in developing a WPF application in Agile (SCRUM) environment strictly following the MVVM pattern.  • Used SSIS Packages for extracting, transforming and loading data into data warehouse.  • Used LINQ for Querying set of data  • Used TFS (Team Foundation System) as version control manager.  • Involved in Documentation of developed Components and modules.  • Involved in fixing the Bugs as per the requirements.  Environment: ASP.NET 3.5, C#.NET, WPF 3.5, Win forms, ADO.NET, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, WCF Services, Visual Studio 2008, SQL Server 2005, Crystal Reports, JSON, T-SQL, IIS 7.0, HL7, IHE Standards, TFS, SSIS. Software Developer Byte Alpha Solutions January 2012 to October 2013 IRI (Information Resources, Incorporated) is the world's leading innovative that helps clients transform insight into impact at every level of their organization across sales, marketing, merchandising, category and brand management and shopper marketing to achieve high performance and growth. It expertise to give the solution in consumer packaged goods (CPG), retail, and healthcare industries. Data: Publicly available dataset, containing a few observations with attributes like; Customer Id, Payment Mode, Product Details, Complaint, Location, Status of the complaint, etc.    Responsibilities:  • Developed programming scenarios in C#, Object Oriented Programming (OOPS) concepts such as: encapsulation, inheritance, polymorphism, and abstraction.  • Used MVC Design Pattern to develop classes to having clear separation of responsibilities of all the supported client actions.  • Designed and developed dynamic ASPX web pages using C#, ASP.Net, XML, HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Designed and developed various abstract classes, interfaces, classes to construct the business logic using C#.NET, ADO.NET and PL/SQL.  • Designed and coded the Win forms and implemented the logic using C#.NET.  • Created Stored Procedures to manipulate the database and to apply the business logic according to the user's specifications.  • Extensively made use of Grid View, Data List and Drop down List for displaying the data in a clear and pleasant format.  • Used ASP.NET AJAX Toolkit controls like Script Manager and Update Panel within some web pages.  • Created Web.Config files for setting up of the application by writing database connections.  • Developed the required Business Layer of the application using C#.  • Involved in building the queries, writing Stored Procedures, functions, and triggers.  • Extensively used ADO.NET to access database object tables, stored procedures, and implemented Data Access Layer (DAL).  • Involved in setting up and managing the code repository (VSS).  • Involved in creating various reports using SSRS.  Environment: ASP.NET 2.0, C#, ADO.NET, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Visual Studio 2005, SQL Server 2005, IIS 6.0, Web Services, XML, AJAX, VSS, .NET Framework 2.0, MS VISIO (UML), N-Unit Testing Tool, MVC Design Patterns, SSIS, SSRS. Software Developer CMS Computers Ltd April 2010 to January 2012 Develop large and complex Web Application to bring a cross enterprise program (NGEN Project) that provides the structure needed to execute on HCSC expanding priorities focused on the individual consumer and retail marketplace.    Responsibilities:  • Implemented the project using C#.Net (Win Forms) and back-end database as Microsoft SQL Server 2008.  • Understood and analyzed the client's requirements and involved in GUI designing of the application.  • Participated in various Client meetings with the team and the Project manager to discuss improvements/amendments in the development of the section.  • Developed win forms using C# environments and ADO.Net.  • Used custom Data Grid, Dataset, and Data Reader to retrieve, display and manipulate data.  • Designed Administrator pages to handle overall application.  • Used Data Controls to retrieve, display and manipulate data.  • Configured security features for the application using integrated windows authentication.  • Involved in database design, writing stored procedures using T-SQL.  • Implemented Optimized SQL Stored Procedures  • Involved in design, development, and implementation of user interfaces in ASP.NET and validation using JavaScript and jQuery.  • Developed RESTFUL Web services, Web APIs, and other back end components.  • Implemented Microsoft ASP.Net AJAX Extender Controls like AutoComplete, Animation, Drag Panel, and Calendar controls to provide a rich and user friendly user-interface.  • Used ASP.NET AJAX and updated web pages to implement the AJAX functionality to enhance the application  • Involved in database operations using ADO.NET.  • Designed and developed web forms using user ASP.NET controls Server Controls.  • Extensive use of Web Services, SOAP, XML, XSL to expose the reports to facilitate information sharing.  • Designed and developed .NET components using VB.NET and XML to communicate with Web Services.  • Worked on ASP.NET features like state Management, caching features, configuring optimizations and securing web application  Environment: C#.NET, Microsoft .NET Framework 2.0, Web API, ADO.NET, SQL Server 2008/2005, HTML, JavaScript, Windows NT, Reporting Services (SSRS). Education Bachelor's Skills .NET (8 years), C# (8 years), JAVASCRIPT (8 years), ASP (8 years), ASP.NET (8 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Programming Languages C#, VB.Net, T-SQL, PL-SQL  .Net Technologies  ASP.NET 2.0/3.5/4.0/4.5, ADO.NET, LINQ, C#.NET, WCF Services, WPF, Web Parts, share point, Win Forms, .Net Framework 1.1/2.0/3.0/3.5/4.0/4.5, MVC 3.0/ MVC 3.5/ MVC 4.0/ MVC 4.5    Web Technologies HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, DHTML, JavaScript, XML, XAML, AJAX, Silverlight4.0/3.0,Jquery, Web API  Databases SQL Server 2005/2008/2012, MS Access.  Servers IIS 5.0/6.0/7.0/7.5  Scripting Languages Java Script, UNIX Shell Scripting, batch file scripting, JQuery  Environments Microsoft Visual Studio 2003/2005/2008/2010/2012/2013  Operating Systems Windows NT/2000/XP/7/8/server 2008/2012, MS DOS  Reporting Tools SSRS, Crystal Report, SSIS packages  Testing Frameworks N unit, Load Testing, Visual Studio 2010 TDD  Software Development Process Models Waterfall, Iterative, Agile and SCRUM  Version Controller Microsoft Visual Source Safe 6.0, Team Foundation Server 2008/2010/2012  Application/Web Servers Internet Information Server (IIS) 7.0/6.0/5.0, REST with WCF  Other Utilities Style Cop, Resharper, FxCop, gacutil