Software Engineer <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Software Engineer - Infosys Work Experience Software Engineer Infosys - N.Y, N.Y, US September 2017 to Present Developed, desig, modified, expanded, maintenance and code reliability as well as, improving existing programs Identify application processing risk areas through code analysis, code review, code metrics and code reliability to provide remediation to deliver consistent and quality code. Write test cases for all developed modules, as well as, resolve problems and questions from technical Support.  Role:    • Maintain and Developed multithreading application for trading clearing.  • Identify application processing risk areas through code review.  • Support and maintain web base app. (Sprint Boot)  • Developed quality code using Java, and Python contributing to solutions that streamlined processes.  • Developed custom reports for user using Python and Java Application Developer CFX incorporated - N.Y, N.Y, US August 2014 to August 2017 Responsible for designing, modifying, expanding, maintenance, and improving existing programs for the management of the client investment life Cycle. Identify application processing risk areas through code analysis, code review, code metrics and code reliability to provide remediation to deliver consistent and quality code. Write test cases for all developed modules, as well as, resolve problems and questions from technical Support.  Role:  • Developed web interface using Java, Sql, JavaScript, Rest for tracking investment performance.  • Developed multithreading application which manages the client investment life cycle.  • Developed quality code and enhance Mortgage Revenue Bond system using Java, and Python contributing to solutions that streamlined processes.  • Wrote detailed documentation about Mortgage Revenue Bond operation for users  • Identify application processing risk areas through code analysis and Fortify, provided remediation to deliver consistent quality code.  • Developed custom Mortgages Revenue Bond reports for user to using Python and Java JPMorgan Chase - N.Y, N.Y, US February 2011 to May 2014 Application Developer JPMorgan Chase February 2011 to May 2014 Responsible for designing, modifying, expanding, maintenance, and improving existing  programs. Identify application processing risk areas through code analysis, code review, code  metrics and code reliability to provide remediation to deliver consistent and quality code. Write  test cases for all developed modules, as well as, resolve problems and questions from technical  Support for Global Wealth Management application (Structure Product, Fix Income, Fix Income  Syndicate, Equity Syndicate).  Role:  • Developed web interface using Extjs, Rest, Json objects and MQ service for primary Market deal creation for Structured Product, Fix Income and Equity Syndicate as part of web implementation.  • Developed quality code and enhance existing programs using Java, and Python contributing to FixIncome, Equity Syndicate to streamlined processes.  • Reengineered multiple system that fueled improvements to productivity and efficiency for Global Wealth Management Team business operations using a variety of programming languages(Java, Python, C#, SQL, Sprint, MQ, REST, SPRING, SOAP).  • Delivered a wide range of functional enhancements to Fix Income, Equity Syndicate and Structured Product web base applications (JS, EXT-JS, JSON)  • Enhanced existing program for the Global Wealth Management Team using Java, Python and SQL by fixing critical Change Request (CR) and performing monitoring task (Test Case) to ensure quality.(JUnit, SELENIUM).  • Identify application processing risk areas through code analysis and Fortify, provided remediation to deliver consistent quality code.  • Automated web base entry processes by implementing Selenium, which improved statistics requested reliability and reduced information delivery time.  • Wrote detailed documentation about programs (Equity Syndicate, Fix Income and Structured Product) operation for users.  • Increased application security, by providing remediation to securities vulnerabilities identified throughout vulnerability assessments, and code reviews (Fortify).  • L3 support, Wrote Stored Procedures and Queries Databases (MYSQL, SYBASE) to provide detailed analysis of issues / governance report to senior management and timely resolution respond to clients.  • Developed new reporting system using Python which generates verities of reports on Lead, using Python. Education BS in Computer Science Brooklyn College - New York, NY 2010 Skills Javascript, MYSQL, CSS, Git, Javascript, MYSQL, Git