Senior Software Developer Senior <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Software Developer - Current Organization To contribute my Technical skills and end to end optimized Omni-Channel AI based solution to the challenging problems, achieve best-of-class results with an objective to share my vision over 5+ years of enriched work experience in Omni-channel AI bot(Chat & IVR) development and model creation and grammar creation for speech recognition platforms.    Core Skill Set  • Extensive working knowledge on Omni-channel solution by developing artificial intelligent bots for chat and IVR.  • Extensive working knowledge on developing IVR and chat application for virtual personal assistance (VPA) devices like Google home and Amazon Alexa.  • Extensive working Knowledge on VXML, SCXML, node.js, JavaScript, perl, Python and web-technology.  • Working knowledge on developing NL models and Large NL grammar development using GRXML.  • Developed IVR application using Genesys (External IVR tool Edify) and Cisco call studio, Genesys composer.  • Possess good experience in developing GRXML for speech recognition and experience on both Nuance and Microsoft DNN recognizing engine.  • Working experience on messenger integration like AIVA Facebook messenger integration and apple business chat integration.  • Developed automation code in Perl for large grammar generation which reduced manual effort of 21 days to 5 days which is continuous refinement process for grammar generation.  • Proficient in managing all the application in automated IVR and Chat development.  • Developed Omni-channel application which involves following app with single code scxml code base- IVR, VA chat, vivid speech, IVR to chat and Facebook messenger and apple business chat. Work Experience Senior Software Developer Current Organization August 2016 to Present Clients Handled: FirstAmerican, Mitsui, Assuarant, AT&T (Wireline and Wireless and VAD), FORD and [24]7.ai internal Omni-channel AI bot developer, Ebay MC Delivery associate ( Developer) Accenture India December 2015 to August 2016 IVR developer RBS - Banking September 2013 to December 2015 Cognizant technological solution Bangalore    Role: Program analyst ( Developer)    Client: Anthem (WellPoint) - Health care industry - IVR developer    Job Profile:  1) Current project handling in [24]7.ai: for Clients FirstAmerican, Assurant, Mitsui and 247ai demo bots, AT&T, FORD, VAD, Capital one, 247ai general and internal projects.    1. Extensive working knowledge on AI bot development and Omni-channel apps (IVR and Chat).  2. Extensive working knowledge on developing NL models and speech grammars (GRXML).  3. Developed AIVA bots for Assurant, 247ai-general, Mitsui, FirstAM and internal re-usable bots like creditcardinfo, shoffee-integrating with VPA devices.  4. Developed FAQ generator for AIVA bots.  5. Extensive working Knowledge on IVR Development using open source VXML, SCXML, node.js Tellme studio.  6. Extensive working knowledge on developing backend applications for bot and IVR using node.js, JavaScript, Perl.  7. Developed automation script to generate the mocha test cases for node.js codes used in bot development.  8. Working knowledge on developing GRXML for speech recognition.  9. Developed NL models for Internal demo projects.  10. Developed automation code in Perl for grammar generation process which reduced the manual effort of 21 days to 5 days  11. Developed automated code to place the audio files in production server by comparing it with QA server for ebay client for CE based IVR clients.  12. Developed and maintained crawler tool for IVR automation testing in python.  13. Involved in Solaris to CentOS migration, extensive working knowledge in Unix and Linux based systems.    2) Projects Handled in Accenture: For Client RBS  1) Developed ICM scripting for routing  2) IVR application development using cisco Call studio tool.    Key Responsibilities  1) Designing the routing and IVR flows as per the business requirements.  2) Developing ICM scripts for the routing flows which include admin and routing scripts.  3) Responsible for creating IVR application using call studio. Call studio is VXML based IVR tool, each elements of call studio is created using VXML.    3) Projects Handled: For Client Anthem  1) IVR development using Edify tool and genesis for the client Anthem.  2) Speech recognition using GRXML coding with nuance speech recognizer version 9.1.    Key Responsibilities  1. Responsible for creating grammar for Speech Recognition using GRXML.  2. Monitoring Genesys I driver using SCI (Solution control interface) where Genesys I driver is the interface between Edify and Genesys.  3. IVR flow development using genesys composer. Education B.E in Electronics and Communication Engineering M S Ramaiah institute of Technology Additional Information Computer Proficiency  • Operating System: Solaris, CentOS, Windows.  • Programming Language: JavaScript, Node.js, VXML (2.1), SCXML, Perl, Python, Genesys composer, Cisco ICM, Cisco CVP, Cisco call studio, Edify, GRXML, XML, SQL.  • Environment: GIT, SVN and CVS repositories, Putty, SSH, Eclipse, WebStorm, PyCharm  • Applications: MS-Office(Excel, word, Power point, Publisher)