Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer Sammamish, WA I had worked in IBM for 6+ years. In IBM DB2 department, I used to work on the IBM Data Studio product which enables developers and DBA to create and manage heterogeneous database environments for increased productivity. My role is the tech lead. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Developer FULL-STACK DEVELOPMENT - Sammamish, WA April 2018 to May 2018 • Gained a practical understanding of how to set up a development environment using Node.js to build an MVC pattern application and run the application in the cloud.  • Produced a course registration website with features to authorize, add/drop courses, register for courses and related functions.  • Built controllers using the Angular 6 framework to invoke backend Spring Java framework and exchange HTTP requests/responses.  • Generated a MySQL database and deployed in AWS, configured the connection to back-end APIs. STAFF SOFTWARE ENGINEER - tech lead IBM - Beijing, China July 2008 to October 2014 Project: IBM Data Studio and IBM Data Studio Administration Console (DSAC)    IBM Data Studio provides an integrated, modular environment to enable database development and administration of IBM Db2® for Linux, UNIX and Windows and z/OS. It's a web-based tool. IBM DSAC is replaced by it after DB2 version 9.7.    Setup the IBM Data Studio with the distributed DB2 cluster, DBA can monitor the overall database ecosystem’s health status through the Data Studio overview dashboard. The overview dashboard can give the DBA an overall peek of the database’s health status. If you want to see the detail information, you can drill down into more than ten inflight dashboards to fetch the details data or alerts in specific area. Like the I/O dashboard, Memory Dashboard and Lock Alert Dashboard. Except the inflight dashboard, the other major feature is the End to End Dashboard. Through the rainbow chart in E2E dashboard, DBA can figure out how many resources or how much time does one transaction use/spend in the database layer, network layer, and I/O or memory. That is an end to end monitoring.     My responsibilities:  o Shipped IBM DSAC 1.1 and 1.2. Shipped IBM Data Studio 3.1 and 3.2.  o Build up the automation framework and lead the automation project  § Create automation test in Java   § 80%+ function test cases (1000+ in total) automated  o Handling the Priority 0 urgent bugs  § Recreated the customer environment  § Bug investigation. Find the root cause   § Drive the fixing  o Quality assurance of the product  § Setup the automation framework by Java  § Create more than 1000 automation scripts  o Scrum master, run the product in Agile model Education Master's in Software engineering BEIJING UNIVERSITY OF POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS - Beijing, China September 2006 to July 2008 Bachelor's in Computer Science Technology BEIJING INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY INSTITUTE - Beijing China September 2002 to July 2006 Skills Quality Assurance (7 years), IBM DB2 (7 years), HTML (2 years), Lotus Notes (7 years), Java (7 years), Project Management (1 year), SQL (2 years), VBA (1 year), Presentation Skills (4 years), Excel (1 year), Communications (6 years), C# (1 year) Certifications/Licenses PMP certification April 2011 to April 2013