Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer - Ariel Borges Lake Worth, FL Software developer with more than 6 years of experience in deploying applications  on the .Net platform. Proficient in MVC, Entity Framework, Web  API, and LINQ. Having a broad knowledge of Software Engineering, Agile  Development of Software Development Methodologies and Life Cycle Development.  Excellent analytical skills, fast learner and a great team player. Characterized by  rapid learning, self-improvement, and belief in good programming practices and  techniques. Work Experience Software Developer Ariel Borges - Miami, FL July 2018 to Present Used C# with Entity Framework to create a desktop application that helps  patient control that is handled by case manager Ariel Borges.    • Checked existing codes and performed a maintenance and refactoring plan.    • Tested and deployed the application in the development environment and in production.    • Created a RESTful web API service using the ASP.NET web API to generate data on the monitoring of each client. Software Developer Vero Beach, FL May 2017 to July 2018 Used C#, ASP.NET MVC, Web APIs, LINQ, HTML, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery  to create a website that improved and simplified the exchange of data between healthcare facilities and their business partners.  • Used GitHub as repository for version control.  • Developed a scalable desktop application using Windows Forms that helps  operators upload data to an SQL Server and to create custom reports. Senior Software Engineer RESTAURA - Havana, CU 2011 to 2016 Used C# to create a Windows Application that helps on the Hotel Manzana  project store all information such as blueprints of architects created in AutoCAD on an SQL Server.  • Used HTML, CSS, and JavaScript to develop and implement an easy-to-use user  interface design to help the Hotel Manzana team have quick access to their plans.  • Upgrade data access from ADO.net to Entity Framework to reduce the server call  and improve the application performance.  • Creating and improving simple and complex stored procedures, queries and functions in order to improve and optimize the system. Tools used: MS SQL  Server 2012, MS Management Studio, SQL Server Profiler. Freelance Havana, CU 2011 to 2014 Developing Windows Forms applications to advance front-end client application  for the hospital / clinic-related application.  • Implemented APIs to consume several web services and protocols. Junior Software Engineer UCI - Havana, CU 2010 to 2010 • Programmed Stored Procedures and other relational queries in SQL.  • Tested and deployed the application in the development environment and in production.  • Described and made white-box tests (Integration tests and System level tests  and Acceptance tests7.  • Captured and formally described requirements as well as use case realizations.  • Administered Network, offering a suitable level of maintainability of network and applications.  • Actively worked as Developer for the implementation of a web service for a bank  branch at the University. Tools used: PHP, MySQL, XML, SOAP. Education B.S. in Computer Science in Computer Science University of Information Sciences - Havana, CU 2005 to 2010 Skills Database, Microsoft sql server, Sql server, Mysql, Sql, Visual studio, Api, C#, Git, Html, Javascript, Svn, Visual sourcesafe, Microsoft visual sourcesafe, Ajax, Css, Dns, Internet information server, Iis, Security Links http://linkedin.com/in Additional Information Technical Skills  • Proficient: C#, Linq, MVC, Web API, JavaScript, JQuery, Html, Css.  • Networking: TCP/IP, LAN, FTP, DNS, DHCP, IIS, Active Directory.  • Database: Microsoft SQL Server, MySQL.  • Platforms: Microsoft Windows 8, 7, Vista, XP, GNU/Linux Ubuntu.  • IDEs: Visual Studio, NetBeans, Others.  • Source control: Microsoft Visual SourceSafe, Tortoise SVN, Git.  • Web Servers: Apache, Internet Information Server.    Technologies  • Entity Framework 4.0, CSS, Web Services, AJAX, DevExpress.  • Relational Databases, Security.  • Apache Web Server.