Software Engineer <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Software Engineer San Diego, CA Experienced software engineer. Seeking growth opportunities in a fast paced and dynamic environment. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Engineer Qualcomm - San Diego, CA May 2018 to Present • Hardware Interface Project: C/C++ implementation. Robot Framework (Python) for testing. Jenkins for continuous integration. Nightly and incremental builds distributed across multiple CI servers. Git for version control. Team of 8 software mix software and test engineers.    • RESTful Minimal HTTPS Server: Implemented HTTPS web server in C programming language for Linux environment using OpenSSL TLS library. Constrained size to have as small of a footprint as possible. Utilized custom Docker container to run the web server during test. Jenkins for continuous integration. Git for version control.    • C  • C++  • Python  • Jenkins  • Docker  • CI  • Git Software Developer Intern IBM - Raleigh, NC May 2017 to February 2018 • Watson Content Hub MOCK Implementation: Created RESTful API to allow for usage of internal storage during testing, circumventing usage of costly 3rd party storage.     • NodeJS  • Linux   • Jenkins Software Engineering Intern Freewave Technologies - Boulder, CO May 2015 to September 2015 Software Engineering    • Large Database Transfer: Transferred a large, customized database. Used python, perl, and mysql programming languages to complete the transfer.    • Python program conversion: Successfully translated a 2500+ line, PowerBasic hardware-interfacing program into the Python programming language.    • Continuous Integration (CI): Working alongside my internship mentor, we were able to create automatic build environments and processes for eight of the major products of the company.    • Python  • C++  • Linux  • MySQL  • Perl  • CI Education Master's in Computer Engineering (Cyber Security) University of Colorado Denver - Denver, CO January 2017 to December 2018 Bachelor's in Computer Science and Electrical Engineering University of Colorado Denver - Denver, CO 2014 to 2017 Skills Mandarin Chinese (5 years), C++ (3 years), Python (3 years), Linux (3 years), Android (1 year), Jenkins (2 years), C (3 years), Robot Framework (1 year), Docker (1 year), Git, MYSQL Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/charles-bollig-6b140185 Awards 2016 Taoyuan City (???) Open-Data Hacker/Maker Competition - Winner 2016-10 Using public open data, created a product to notify customers of potential issues with unclean water supply. Created a python API to pull data, parse, and transmit to 1) email and 2) physical Arduino device via Bluetooth. Winner among 30 teams.    url:    https://od.tycg.gov.tw/hackathon#sectionH Groups President (former) - National Society of Black Engineers January 2017 to Present I acted as the president of the National Society of Black Engineers (NSBE) at the University of Colorado, Denver from January 2017 to Dec 2018. Additional Information Master’s Degree Research  Thesis: “Spatial Tracking with Computer Vision and Machine Learning”  • Utilizing “off the shelf” computer vision and IoT technologies, created a real-time mapping and tracking system for objects in a 2D space.  • Configuration of “mapping function” uses machine learning to approximate pixel information to a spatial position.  • Visual surveillance system is based off of python ‘bokeh’ plot library and Google Maps API. RESTful HTTP server accepts pixel data from IoT computer vision nodes and undergoes “mapping function” to a spatial location.  • Used Python tools and modules for implementation.    Senior Capstone Project (Android-based Mobile Home Security System)  • Capstone project for electrical engineering BS degree – home security system. Team of four electrical engineering students.  • Mobile Android application interfaced with RaspberryPi security “hub.” Peripherals (Arduino boards) included: security camera, portal detection, nighttime infrared detection, and linear actuator locks. Communication between android device and hub encrypted with symmetric key encryption. Project included: cost/benefit analysis, prototype construction, ethics case study, project documentation, and project presentation to faculty and peers.    • Machine Learning  • Android  • Java  • Computer Vision  • Python  • RaspberryPi  • Cyber Security  • Google Cloud Platform  • Google API  • IoT  • REST  • MongoDB