Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer - IBM Austin, TX Python Developer:    • 5+Year's experience as a Python Developer and have handful of experience in coding with analytical programming using Python, Django, and R.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Experienced in Software development life cycle and architecting scalable platforms, object-oriented programming, database design and agile methodologies.  • Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing, and deploying applications with Apache.  • Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS, and JavaScript  • Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python/PHP) Architecture  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  • Excellent Experience of Databases such as MySQL, Oracle 8g/9g/10g, Microsoft SQL Server, PostgreSQL, SQL/PLSQL concepts & PowerShell.  • Familiar with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services (AWS)  • Good experience with cloud platforms like Amazon AWS and Google App Engine.  • Good hands on experience in data warehouse developer/ database engineer for high-volume data processing.  • Experience with the Android-SDK and implemented Android Bluetooth and Location Connectivity components.  • Expert in Cand C++ languages. Written C and C++ applications and also migrated many legacy applications to Python  • Knowledge in Linux/Unix system Administration, System Builds, Server Builds, Installations, Upgrades, Patches, Migration, troubleshooting.  • Worked on different Linux distributions like Ubuntu, RHEL, Amazon Linux, CentOS.  • Experience with installation, configuration, supporting and managing of BigData and underlying infrastructure of Hadoop Cluster.  • Experienced in R programming, mainly with statistical inference, handson experience withSampling technique, Estimation, Hypothesis testing, Timeseries, Correlation, and Regression analysis (linear Regression,Logistic Regression,ecision trees and forecasting)  • Experiencein datawarehousing, data mapping,extraction, transformation, and validation from heterogeneous sources in R.  • Experiencewith R packagesand familiar with clustering analysis, parallel processingin R  • Good written and verbal communications skills and Excellent Team player. Work Experience Software Developer IBM - Austin, TX December 2018 to Present Responsibilities:    • Responsible for design, develop, and implement efficient information systems and operations system in support of core enterprise functions.  • Understanding business requirement and working closely with client to gain  organizational commitment for all systems and software plans required to complete.  • Troubleshooting and supporting many of SoftLayer's products and tools to improve  performance.  • Using Python libraries like pandas and Numpy with Watson Natural Language  understanding for analyzing customer satisfaction.  • Implementing topic modelling from customer ticket description in IMS and service-now using Topic Modelling libraries.  • Worked on migrating MapReduce programs into Spark transformations using Spark and Scala, initially done using Python (PySpark)  • Creating test cases to provision the resources in cloud and monitor the resource in system  to detect and resolve problems in pre-prod environment before deploying into production.  • Running the smoke tests using Terraform and Kubernetes by provisioning and deprovisioning the resources.  • Scheduling cron-jobs using Kubernetes to pull metrics and export them to Grafana  dashboard to monitor in case of failure.  • Consistently meet deadlines for complex issues and new projects involving multiple  teams and develop and maintain accurate documentation for internal procedures and services.  • Experience in branching, tagging and maintaining the version control and source code management tools like GIT(GitHub) on Linux and Windows platforms.  Environment: Python 2.7, 3.5, IBM Cloud, MS SQL Server 2013, MySQL, Eclipse, Docker, Unix, Linux, Red hat Linux, Shell Scripting,Splunk,JQuery, GitHub, Jira. Python Developer Vanguard - Malvern, PA September 2017 to November 2018 Responsibilities:    • Used Django Framework for developing web applications using model view control architecture.  • Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, Oracle DB and VMWare API calls.  • Implemented and enhanced CRUD operations for the applications using the MVC (Model View Controller) architecture of Django framework and python conducting code reviews.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python scripting on Django Web Framework.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs, and Views utilizing Python technologies to build web-based applications.  • Handled potential points of failure through error handling and communication of failure.  • Performed efficient delivery of code based on principles of Test-Driven Development (TDD) and continuous integration to keep in line with Agile Software Methodology principles.  • Different testing methodologies like unit testing, Integration testing.  • Test and validated the custom scripts.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python.  • Created and managed a Docker deployment pipeline for custom application images in the cloud using Jenkins.  • Used Pandas library for statistics Analysisand Matplotlib for Numerical analysis and Visualization for Insurance premium.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Experienced with event-driven and scheduled AWS Lambda functions to trigger various AWS resources.  • Used Redshift service from the AWS to create design and implement table structures.  • Experience in branching, tagging and maintaining the version control and source code management tools like GIT(GitHub) on Linux and Windows platforms.  • Responsible for Patching Linux Servers. Installed removed and updated and querying packages using Red Hat Linux.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django, HTML5/CSS, MS SQL Server 2013, MySQL, MongoDB,Amazon AWS S3, AWS,C++, JavaScript, Eclipse, Docker, Unix, Linux,Red hat Linux, Shell Scripting,Splunk,JQuery, GitHub, Jira. Python developer Verizon - Freehold, NJ November 2016 to September 2017 Responsibilities:  • Participated in requirement gathering and worked closely with the architect in designing and modeling.  • Wrote scripts in Python for extracting data from HTML file. Developed dynamic web pages using Flask frameworks.  • Generated Python Flask forms to record data of online users. Designed web pages using HTML.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database. Interlinked different web pages and database tables using Python and Flask micro framework.  • Responsible for setting up Python REST API (Micro services) using Flask.  • Used Pandas and Scikit-Learn for Data modeling.  • Supported a variety of NoSQL databases and file systems with Apache Drill.  • Created database tables using NoSQL to store user data including login credentials and contact information.  • Exported data between different data sources using SQL Server Management Studio  • Used PyCharm for programming using Python.  • Managing and reviewing Hadoop log files.  • Experience in dealing with Apache Hadoop components like HDFS, MapReduce, Sqoop and Spark.  • Maintain the Data lake in Hadoop by building data pipe line using Sqoop, Hive and PySpark  • Worked on migrating MapReduce programs into Spark transformations using Spark and Scala, initially done using Python (PySpark)  • Used Git/GitHub for tracking changes in various files and coordinating work on those files among multiple people in the project team.  • Worked on spinning up the infrastructure and handing it over to the Developers, testers and operations teams based on the needs in AWS.  • Involved in CI/CD process using GIT, Jenkins job creation to build the application.  • Integrated the test suites to Jenkins to execute them automatically after every successful deployment.  Environment: Python 2.6/2.7, JavaScript, Django Framework 1.3, CSS, SQL, MySQL,Nosql, LAMP, Cassandra, JQuery, Hadoop,AWS, Adobe, PySpark, Dreamweaver, Apache web server, Jenkins. State Farm - Bloomington, IL February 2016 to October 2016 Role: R analytics Business Intelligence & Data Integration Unit    Responsibilities:  • Worked on Insurance policy center- Auto, Propertyand Claims data using Rand Business Objects  • Participated in requirement analysis by gatheringclient requirements, business needs and project objectives, via feedback sessions and client meetings, in collaboration with all stakeholders  • Worked on validating the data accuracy, completeness of the data in Operational data storage  • Worked on Adhoc BI reporting and statistical modeling &analysis requests on underwriting issues like measuring the time to resolve an issue, root cause analysis (regression analysis) for cancellation due to underwriting issue using R and Python.  • Managing and Deploying the Windows Azure based applications.  • Developed and migrated servers, relational databases (SQL) &websites to Microsoft Azure  cloud.  • Worked with ETL processes to transfer/migrate data from relational database and flat files common staging tables in various formats to meaningful data.  • Expert in Data Extraction, Transforming and Loading (ETL) using SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS), Log Shipping and Bulk Insert  • Worked on text mining solution to find claims assigned to fieldclaim handlers that could be worked in the office.  • Developed different statistics for the analysis and reduction of policy Quote processing time using R    Environment: R, Oracle, Teradata, SQL, MS SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS), DB2, STATISTICA, Windows 7 and Linux Jr Python developer Mouritech - Hyderabad, Telangana August 2013 to December 2015 Responsibilities:    • Performed design, involved in code reviews and wrote unit tests in python  Worked on tuples, dictionaries, object-oriented concepts-based inheritance features for making algorithms  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL  • Worked on UI using HTML, CSS and JavaScript  • Used Git for version control  • Monitored and troubleshot web applications  • Performed data analysis, manipulation and reporting using pivot tables and advanced functions in MS excel.  • Setup/Managing Linux Servers on Amazon (EC2, EBS, ELB, SSL, Security Groups, RDS and IAM).  • Experience in Linux Administration (Installation, Configuration, Tuning and Upgrades of Linux (Red Hat and Oracle).  • Installing and Upgrading Red Hat Enterprise Linux on Physical and Virtual Machines.    Environment: python 2.7, PyQT, .NET, PyQuery, MVW, HTML5, Shell Scripting, JSON, Rest, Apache Web Server, SQL, LINUX, UNIX, Windows, PostgreSQL, and python libraries such as Numpy, SQL-Alchemy, etc. Education Masters in Engineering Management Trine University 2016 to 2017 Bachelors in computer science JNTU 2010 to 2014 Skills Db2, Ms access, Sql server, Mysql, Oracle