UI/UX Developer UI/UX <span class="hl">Developer</span> UI/UX Developer Malden, MA • Around 8 years of IT Experience with strong focus on UI Technologies including Design, Code and Implementation.  • Experience in designing and developing professional UI web applications using front-end technologies like HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Typescript, Angular 8.0/6,5,4,2, AJAX and JSON that follows W3C Web Standards.  • Expertise in Responsive Web Design (RWD) and Cross Browser Compatibility using Bootstrap and CSS3.  • Expertise in React JS and working with React Flux architecture.  • Expertise in using JavaScript for accessing and changing the elements of DOM dynamically.  • Experience in using Photoshop, Illustrator, Sketch, InVision and MS Visio for creating Wireframes, Prototypes, Logos, Banners, Buttons, Icons and Images.  • Expertise in view rendering Java Script libraries such as React JS, jQuery.  • Built Single Page Applications (SPA), Responsive Web Design (RWD), Restful Service Applications, and HTML wireframes using HTML5 Grid Structures/Layouts, CSS3 Media Queries, Ajax, Angular and Bootstrap.  • Worked in Angular for development of Components, Directives and Services which are totally customizable to meet the needs of application.  • Familiar with creating Custom Reusable React Components Library.  • Strong knowledge in MEAN stack (Mongo, Express, Angular.JS, and Node.JS React JS) JavaScript based technologies used to create web applications.  • Extensive responsive web design using frameworks like Bootstrap.  • Hands on experience developing Single Page Applications using core Angular2 Features like modules, components, directives, data-binding techniques, services and dependency-injection.  • Very good knowledge in using TypeScript and good understanding of its use in developing Angular 2/4/5/6/8 applications.  • Used AJAX in jQuery for fetching Data from the Server by giving URL to get JSON data for model and to populate model from the server.  • Extensively worked on GIT and JIRA for version control and project tracking.  • Designed web applications and web contents utilizing various Search Engine Optimization (SEO) techniques.  • Experience using all popular text-Editors and IDE's like Eclipse, Brackets, Sublime Text, Notepad++, Webstorm, Microsoft Visual Studio and Code.  • Hands on experience on SQL Server features like tables, stored procedures, views, triggers, relationships, constraints.  • Good experience with Form Validation by Regular Expression and jQuery plug-ins.  • Good Understanding of Document Object Model (DOM) and DOM Functions.  • Extensive experience in creating style guides, best practices and setting UI standards for enterprise/consumer applications.  • Experience in Software Development Life-Cycle (SDLC) preparing Requirement Specification documents, design documents, Test cases, User Training documents and Technical Help documents. Work Experience UI/UX Developer CVS Health - Boston, MA May 2018 to May 2019 Project: Digital Drop Off (DDO) /Expedite Shipping  The business need is to create a functionality for the customers where they can order Rx-Prescriptions, refills online within the customer website and can track their orders once they were placed. In addition, they can even modify/change/put on hold their orders. Additional functionality is provided to expedite their orders.    Job Duties:  • Used latest technologies for CSS preprocessors like SASS to better enhance the workflow and development.  • Refactored/Rewrote JavaScript plugins for performance enhancements  • Designed business applications using web technologies like HTML5, CSS3, Typescript, JSON, GULP, JSON and Angular based on the W3C standards.  • Developed application using Angular 5/6 framework and HTML5 & CSS3.  • Debugged RESTful API with Postman to resolve long standing bugs.  • Developed the Single Page Application using Angular Directive, Routing, Service, Component, Pipe and Module.  • Perform code line GIT pushes (releases) to production and customer servers and Develop and improved GIT push scripts.  • Maintaining Parent and child elements by using State and Props in React. js.  • Managed the packages and libraries in Node using NPM (Node Package Manager).  • Used Angular CLI to create a new Angular 5/6 project, components and some packages including Angular Material and Bootstrap 4 etc.  • Experience with GitHub for distributed version control of all software development.  • Developed responsive web pages using Bootstrap and CSS3.  • Worked on Responsive Web Design to make website Responsive for Desktop, mobile and Tablets using Bootstrap and Media Queries.  • Used React. js library functions for the logical implementation part at client side for all the application.  • Leveraging Node.js, I wrote features for the backend architecture, mostly dealing in routes & mongoose schema  • Increased functionalities using a TDD approach & with the help of gulp.js  • Consistently delivered results within or before estimated time in agile development environment  • Implemented React. js Controllers to maintain each view data  • Utilized Node.js, Express, MongoDB, Mongoose, and Gulp.js    Environment: Angular 5/6, Bootstrap, Ng/Ngx Bootstrap, SASS, Node.js, React. js Typescript, HTML5, CSS3, Github, Jasmine, NPM, UX/UI, JavaScript, Typescript, VSCode, GitBash, RESTful API UI/UX Developer Prudential Financial - Roseland, NJ October 2016 to April 2018 Project: Insurance/Group Insurance Center  A new dashboard for each sub-sector of the operations that happen in the organization is created. Individual application for different operations like insurance, mutual funds, investments, mortgage, loans are created with respect to different departments. A new front end to track different accounts and their history is implemented.    Roles and Responsibilities:  • Developed Single Page Applications (SPA's) using Angular 4 framework and Restful services.  • Developed the Responsive Web Design (RWD) using Bootstrap & CSS3 Media Queries.  • Designed dynamic and browser compatible pages using HTML5, CSS3, Typescript, RESTful API.  • Involved in development of commonly used angular components across teams such as customer directives for grid, pagination, conditional validations.  • Involved in developing applications using Angular 2 - Bootstrap like Grids, Toolbars, Panels, Combo-Box and Button etc. Used filters while coding in Angular 2.  • Developed Bootstrap responsive web application pages using Angular 2.0 services, components and directives for front end UI and consuming the Restful web service API  • Involved in Creating and Consuming Restful Services using Node. JS and Express Framework.  • Involved in File Manipulations, File Uploads using Node JS.  • Used MEAN (Mongo DB, Express, Angular JS, Node) Stack.  • Involved Storing and retrieving data from Column Oriented Data Base Mongo DB  • Used latest technologies like CSS preprocessors like LESS and SASS to better enhance the workflow and development.  • Used Node JS to run Grunt tasks and built the project properly.  • Used Gulp along with Node. JS to perform watch on unit tests, minification and live reloading to apply the changes made.  • Very good understanding how to use Node JS clustering to get maximum benefit of CPU resources  • Involved in Consuming Restful Services using Angular $http Services.  • Involved with all stages of Software Development Lifecycle using Agile Methodology.  • Involved in Restful web services to call for POST, PUT, DELETE and GET methods.  • Created and Consumes Restful services API for large file upload without buffering or consuming the memory on client and server.  • Wrote the backend to modify the tags in the database using JSON for data transmission.  • Used GitHub for the Version control and JIRA for product management.  • Updated existing style guide as well as introduced and implemented cloud based collaborative library for sketch.  • Created required templates and reusable style sheets based on UI standards and company's requirements.  • Worked on cross browser compatibility issues and execute unit test cases using Jasmine and Karma.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, MEAN Stack, Typescript, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, XML, Angular 2.0/4, NPM, Typescript, Bootstrap, LESS/SASS, Java, Oracle, Responsive Design, Visual Studio code, SVN, KARMA, SQL 2012, JIRA, GitHub. UI Developer ArcelorMittal - Burns Harbor, IN October 2015 to September 2016 Project: Global Steel  The project is aimed at creating an internal application to bring the operations in various countries under one. Timely updates on the successful end products after mining are updated on a weekly basis. Another application of the company's presence in various nations and progress/failure of those locations in terms of finances is created.    Roles and Responsibilities:  • Involved in developing UI pages using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, Angular JS, JSON, jQuery and Node Js.  • Leveraged two-way data binding through scope in applications built on Angular JS.  • Used Angular JS multiple in-built directives and APIs in Angular JS & Node.js such as filters, root scope, child scope, modal, template, state etc.  • Re-developed a single page application using Angular JS, which was supported in IE 9, 10, 11, Firefox, Chrome.  • Developed concept sketches, flow diagrams, detailed wireframes, mockups, and interactive prototypes.  • Implemented Model View Controller (MVC) Design Pattern using Angular JS.  • Developed reusable components with Angular JS custom directives.  • Used Dependency Injection from Angular JS factory and services.  • Used SASS&LESS as the CSS preprocessor.  • Used SASS variables, mix-ins, nesting and import.  • Implemented User Interface and integrated with backend code, Node.JS as server-side technology  • Solid understanding of React JS Virtual Dom Algorithm, for React JS performance optimization.  • Responsible for React JS UI and architecture. Built components library, including Tree, Slide-View, and Table Grid.  • Used MEAN (Mongo DB, Express, Angular JS, Node) Stack.  • Utilized JavaScript and jQuery to improve the overall design and UI of campaign websites.  • Implemented filtering and search functions using Node JS framework based on MVC pattern.  • Implemented client-side validations using JavaScript  • Implemented AJAX, JSON, and Java script to create interactive web screens.  • Adopted a cross browser and cross platform approach to make the website's most versatile and supportive.  • Worked on Unit testing JavaScript applications using Jasmine and Karma.  • Worked on GIT and source tree as a version control.  • Expert at creating functional specifications with visual design mockups in Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Illustrator and Adobe Flash.  • Created the logos, images and icons that were used across multiple pages using Adobe Creative Suite.  • Followed agile software development practice paired programming, test driven development TTD and scrum status meetings.  • Defined new validations through JavaScript for the form field validation implemented through HTML5.  Environment: HTML, JavaScript, Java, J2EE, XML, PHP, JSON, AJAX, CSS3, HTML5, MS Excel, MS Visio, jQuery, Bootstrap, Angular JS , Typescript, NPM, React/Redux, LESS/SASS, Mongo DB, express, REST, Node JS, JIRA, Grunt, GIT. .NET UI Web Developer IDBI Bank - Hyderabad, Telangana September 2013 to February 2015 Description:  IDBI Bank Ltd. is a Universal Bank with its operations driven by a cutting-edge core Banking IT platform. The Bank offers personalized banking and financial solutions to its clients in the retail and corporate banking arena through its large network of Branches and ATMs, spread across length and breadth. IDBI Bank is the youngest, new generation, public sector universal bank that rides on a cutting-edge core banking Information Technology platform. This enables the Bank to offer personalized banking and financial solutions to its clients.  Roles and Responsibilities:    • Designed and implemented a web app for storing the information of patients, generating reports, saving personal contacts and handling schedule management.  • Used AJAX and jQuery for rich user interface along with MVC.  • Used jQuery for slideshows.  • Worked on UI components such as grids, tabs, and panels.  • Used Balsamiq wire framing tool for sketching my module and for creating layouts.  • Developed site maps and constructed wireframes enabling effortless navigation.  • Created custom Filters which can format data in different ways based on the requirements and involved in two-way data binding technique with styling from Bootstrap.  • Converted data from database into JSON or XML format files and retrieve useful information using AJAX calls to display them on the browser.  • Designed a responsive website using Bootstrap grid system to layout contents that fit different devices including mobile, tablet and desktop.  • Worked on AJAX controls like Update Panel to manage the post back of the web page to server, AJAX Script Manager and Script Manager Proxy controls to register JavaScript and web service files.  • Created several patterns of representation using different MVCs.  • Used RESTful APIs which support JSON and XML to access back-end data payload.  • Used SEO best practices to optimize site for search engines.  • Worked on HTML4/5, CSS3, and basic JavaScript to develop web pages.  • Involved mostly in each step of the Software Development Life cycle.  • Worked on cross-Browser compatibility issues and integration of the project.  • Developed CSS templates.  • SQL server was used to get the data.  • Modified designs and templates for better user interaction and understanding.  • Communicated and was involved in testing with QA team which involved cross browser testing, loading and performance checking.  • Designed training materials utilizing UX design principles and provided training using Photoshop and Flash.  • Created stored procedure using nodes method to load XML file data into SQL server tables.  • Wrote User defined functions, views, trigger, and indexes for various purposes based on the requirements.  Environment: Visual Studio 2010, SQL Server 2008, HTML4/5, XML, JavaScript, CSS3, Photoshop, SQL Server, Linux, MVC, JSON, AJAX, JIRA Software Developer Bodh Tree - India June 2012 to August 2013 Software Developer Intern Bodh Tree - India August 2011 to May 2012 Roles and Responsibilities:  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the application like Requirement gathering, Design, Analysis and Code development.  • Created interactive prototypes using HTML, CSS, JavaScript from a combination of wireframes, visual designs and design standards.  • Involved in developing the UI pages of the company's client website using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, j Query and Bootstrap to achieve Responsive Web Design and to render the dynamic web pages for the application.  • Used AJAX and JSON to make asynchronous calls for retrieving dynamic data from backend server and update the specific parts of DOM.  • Evaluated code to ensure that it is valid, is properly structured, meets industry standards and is compatible with varied browsers, devices, or operating systems.  • Extensive experience in Web Application Development, Interface Web Design, Designing/developing Interfaces for multiple browsers (Firefox, Internet Explorer, Opera etc.).  • Programmed the Event handling for jQuery controls to accept user inputs and validate it.  • Designed and Implemented Effects and accessibility features in jQuery.  • Utilized the HTML DOM local storage features to store data locally client-side processing.  • Programmed various jQuery plug-ins such as Buttons, Calendar, Grid, List box, Tab Container, Accordion, Menu, Dialog boxes and Toolbars.  • Debug the application using Firebug to traverse the documents and manipulated the Nodes using DOM and DOM Functions.  • Also used other Web presentation technologies such as HTML, AJAX, CSS, JavaScript  • Developed server-side logic using XML based protocols like REST.  • Hibernate was used for Object Relational mapping with Oracle database.  • Involved in developing the user interface using Struts  • Worked on the Web Services using SOAP and Restful web services.  • Used CVS configuration management tool for code versioning and release.  • Junit, log4j were used for unit testing and as logging frameworks  • Developed the UI Screens using JSP, JavaScript and HTML and did the client-side validation with the JavaScript.  • Developed the classes for Unit Testing by using JUnit.  • Used Spring MVC (Model View Controller) to handle/intercept the user requests and used various controllers to delegate the request flow to the Backend tier of the application.  • Developed custom tags for UI  Environment: Java/J2EE, JSP, Hibernate, Spring, Struts, Webservices, Oracle 11g, HTML, CSS2, Bootstrap, JavaScript, Ajax, JSON, jQuery, DOM, Java, REST Education Bachelor of Technology in Computer Science Jawaharlal Nehru Institute of Technology (JNTU) - Hyderabad, Telangana 2008 to 2012 Skills Microsoft visual studio, Visual studio, Javascript, Bootstrap, D3.js, Node.js, Typescript, Json, Middleware, Html5, Sass, Ajax, Dhtml, Dreamweaver, Tomcat, Eclipse, jquery, Database, Mysql, Oracle Additional Information Technical Skills:    Web Technologies HTML5, CSS3, DHTML, JavaScript, Typescript, Ajax, JQuery, JSON, Apache Tomcat, ES6, Koa 2 Middleware  Frameworks Bootstrap, Angular JS, Angular 2/4, Angular 8, React.JS, Node.JS, LESS/SASS, D3.JS  IDE's and Tools Eclipse IDE, Net Beans, Dreamweaver, Firebug, Developer Tools, Sublime Text, Microsoft Visual Studio and Code, JIRA  UX Tools Adobe Creative Cloud, Sketch, Axure RP, InVision  Debugging/Testing Tools Firebug, Chrome Dev Tools, Mocha , Karma, Jasmine, Junit  Operating System Windows XP 7/8/10, MAC OS X  Database PL/SQL (Oracle), MYSQL, MSSQL, Mongo DB.