DevOps Engineer DevOps Engineer Bellevue, WA • Having Around 6 years of Experience in Developing and Managing the Application Software for Various Web Based Applications.  • Having ability to work with all stages of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  • Hands on experience on Azure Web Apps, Virtual Machines, Service Bus, Traffic Manager and SQL Azure.  • Having good experience in writing PowerShell scripts.  • Having experience in migration of Data from Excel, Flat file to MS SQL Server by using BCP, DTS and SSIS utilities.  • Hands on experience on SQL Database Design, and developed technical solutions using C#, .Net, CSS, Visual Studio and Interaction with MySQL databases.  • Having experience in creating ADF (Azure Data Factory) pipelines for migrating the on premises data from Azure SQL data warehouse.  • Worked on cloud computing using windows azure and SQL server on services like API management.  • Knowledge in Creating and Maintaining database objects like complex stored procedures, Triggers, Cursors, Tables, Views and SQL Joins.  • Experienced in Performance Tuning and Security Implementation.  • Hands on Experience in Deploying Applications to Microsoft Internet Information Services version 6.0.  • Knowledge in Create technical specification and impact analysis documents.  • Hands on experience in installing, configuring, managing, upgrading and migrating, Backup/Restore, monitoring and troubleshooting SQL Server 2008R2/2012/2014/2016 database systems.  • Worked on Azure data factory, Data lake Analytics, Data Lake store, Azure SQL Database, Azure SQL Data Warehouse, Azure storage account (Blob Storage).  • Experience in designing, developing, and delivering business intelligence solutions using Power BI, SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS), Analysis Services (MDS), and Reporting Services (SSRS).  • Experienced in developing different types of reports using Tableau and Power BI.  • Created Azure Data Factory using Azure PowerShell and Copied the data from one folder to another folder in azure blob storage.  • Created the IcM alerts for ADF pipelines to see if the ADF Pipeline Manager Service is running on the Data Insight Machines.  • Experience in automated Daily VSTS Deployments with VSTS Release Rest API using PowerShell.  • Used Microsoft Azure storage accounts, Azure Data Factory (v1 & v2), Data Lake store, Data Lake Analytics, Logic Apps, Azure Automation Account.  • Having experienced in using data structures, multi-threading programming for systems and applications development and testing.  • Developed Instrumentation, Monitoring, Metrics, Dashboards, Reports and alerts for DevOps scenarios using Geneva and Kusto.  • Maintained code sample and API documents up to date.  • Generated new Troubleshooting guides and Wiki documents.  • Having ability to upgrade to new technologies quickly.  • Managed test environment deployments through VSTS/VSRM CI/CD pipeline, extend and improve the existing workflows. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience DevOps Engineer Client - OTIS October 2018 to Present Role - BI Integration with GSS Support    Responsibilities:  • Create SQL jobs to handle maintenance operations of server to optimize performance and handle disaster recovery (Re-building indexes, Backup and Restore etc.,)  • Manage production activity control to meet business and financial objectives.  • Plan and manage production run time.  • Review production plans to identify and report potential risks to Managers.  • Review job orders and accordingly establish priorities and schedules.  • Create a monitoring solution to report issues/health status of application.  • Modify resources such as Pipelines and select Debug to see how pipeline runs with the most recent changes.  • Publish to the development data factory.  • Generate Power BI reports and publish projection charts to Live Dashboard.  • Create management packs to define extensible and customizable OLAP cubes that are built on the data warehouse infrastructure.  • Design auto re-trigger and self-healing techniques using SQL programming for any job failures.  • Support Azure Data Factory such as Pipeline runs, Triggers and Code Annotation live site and operations.  • Generate new Troubleshooting guides and Data Services documents.  • Create deployment automation and monitoring tools.  • Create and maintain database replicas across multiple Azure locations.  • Design test cases to validate data accuracy across regions and schedule automated test runs.  • Monitor dashboard daily for incidents reported and categorize accordingly.  • Troubleshoot issue using Azure analytics and application logging.  Environment: Azure, Azure with SQL, Windows 2012, Windows 2016, SQL Workflows, VSTS, ADF Pipelines, Power BI, SSIS, SSRS & SSAS, MDS, HP ALM. Azure/DevOps Engineer Client-Microsoft - Redmond, WA March 2018 to September 2018 Responsibilities:  • Build and support Cosmos DataMap internal engineering systems, including source control, build and test systems.  • Support Cosmos DataMap Services such as DataScan, RDD, DataMap API and Code Annotation live site and operations.  • Acknowledge, mitigate and resolve live site incidents.  • Create deployment automation and monitoring tools.  • Execute, monitor, debug and report daily test passes.  • Monitor engineering system health, mitigate and resolve system health issues.  • Perform DevOps work which includes managing certificates, share and whitelist configurations.  • Manage test environment deployments through VSTS/VSRM CI/CD pipeline, extend and improve the existing workflows.  • Responsible for ensuring 24/7 services to customer agents; provide on-call support, resolve problems, debug software, effectively troubleshoot, and reinforce prevention of future issues.  • Played vital role in successful execution of migrating applications OS and SQL to latest versions as well as creating new web hardware load balancing infrastructure.  • Provision reporting structure of team by creating the dashboard for data representation purpose.  • Develop instrumentation, monitoring, metrics, dashboards, reports and alerts for DevOps scenarios using Geneva and Kusto.  • Create DevOps tools using Visual Studio .NET and PowerShell for automating data collection, log cleanup and other such maintenance and routine tasks.  • Developed multiple PowerShell and .Net scripts for IIS app pool recovery, log management, application deployment and general administrative tasks.  • Responsible for configuring and deploying web applications on IIS servers and configuring database servers on windows 2008/2012.  • Maintain databases on high availability by setting up SQL ALWAYS-ON high availability in SQL 2012 and 2014.  • Maintain code sample and API documents up to date.  • Generate new Troubleshooting guides and Wiki documents.  • Deployment of Azure using PowerShell Scripting.  • Experienced in data storage elements using Azure Technology.  • Created Azure Data Factory using Azure Power shell and copied the data from one folder to another folder in an azure blob storage.  • Created an Azure Storage linked service that is used as both the source and sink stores.  • Created ADF pipelines using PowerShell scripts we monitored the status of E2E data.  • Created the IcM alerts for ADF pipelines to see if the ADF Pipeline Manager Service is running on the Data Insight machines.  • Queried ADF Pipeline Manager for data for every 15 mins to determine the failure in past 3 hrs.    Environment: Azure, Azure PowerShell, Windows 2012, Windows 2016, PowerShell Workflows, PowerShell, DSC, GIT, VSRM, VSTS, ADF Pipelines, Power BI, SSIS, SSRS & SSAS, MDS. Software Developer Informatica - Redwood City, CA May 2015 to February 2018 Responsibilities:  • Performed Requirement gathering, Systems analysis.  • Responsible for identifying and fixing technical issues with the existing application against the business requirements.  • Develop and write high quality coding that meets customer requirements.  • Design and develop testing and maintenance procedures and activities.  • Assess the implementation implications on the business and schedule the release.  • Designed and developed following tools using Windows Forms, Silverlight, WCF and SQL Server.  • Work closely with Business and Test team and fixing the identified issues following the SDLC process.  • Designed and developed Tools which help to find Localized bugs and increase the Automation.  • Assist and support other team members on multiple projects.  • Created SQL scripts, stored procedures, triggers and views in MS SQL Server. Performed data extracts from SQL Server database through T- SQL using stored procedures and complex queries.  • Stayed abreast with the Microsoft Office suite/Power BI tools and integration with the business intelligence platform.  • Maintained reliability of database by developing and implementing standards and/or process for database maintenance, documentation and configuration.  • Implement best practices, standards and procedures including quality and delivery methodologies.  • Ensure compliance with the documented software processes and procedures throughout the life cycle of software products.  • Involved in the enhancement and support of existing applications.  • Created small utilities for coding convenience in C#    Environment: ASP.Net 4.0, C#, SQL 2008, SSIS, Mainframes, Azure, WCF, DB2, Tools and Automation, Win Forms, ASP.NET, SQL Server, PB, Power shell Scripting, Power BI. Software Developer First NG - Hyderabad, Telangana April 2013 to December 2014 Responsibilities:  • I was part of requirement gathering and analysis workshops and gap analysis in requirements.  • Involved in web application design using ASP.NET, C# using entity framework.  • Business Layer designed using design patterns OOPS, Template, Factory and Façade.  • Designed UI for 2 modules independently using CSS, HTML, JavaScript.  • Involved in application database design using SQL Server.  • Developed reusable User Controls for the system in ASP.NET with required functionality with the C#.NET.  • Created Business Layer using Façade and Factory design Patterns.  • Look after the status of project and to maintain the status report of the project.  • Analyzing the risk involved, prioritizing the sequence of the job flow.  • Prepared the High level and low-level design documents.  • Part of development, preparing and reviewing test cases.  • Performed code reviews to maintain quality and coding standards.  • Deployed the application on SIT and UAT environments.  • Helped and motivated other team members to complete their work in time without missing SLA.    Environment: ASP.NET 3.5, SQL 2008, C#, WCF, JavaScript, Entity Framework, CSS Education Bachelor of Computer Science and Engineering in Computer Science Engineering JNTU University Master of Computer Information Systems in Computer Information Systems California University of Management and Sciences Skills Database, Ms sql server, Ms sql server 2005, Sql server, Sql server 2005, AWS, Devops Additional Information SKILL SET:  RDBMS MS SQL Server 2005/2008/2008 R2/2012  Version Control System Visual Studio 2017, Visual Studio 2015, XTS 10.0, GIT 3.0, C# 4.0 PowerShell 4.0, ASP.NET 4.5  Database Tools SQL Query Analyzer, SQL Enterprise Manager, SQL Maintenance Plans  Languages Shell Scripting, PowerShell Scripting  CI tools VSRM  Operating Systems Linux (Ubuntu), RedHat and Windows 7/8/10, Windows Server 2016, Windows Server 2012, Windows Server 2008  Web/Application Servers Apache, Tomcat, IIS  SDLC Agile, Scrum, Sprint, Waterfall  Cloud Microsoft Azure  Reporting Tools SSRS, Excel, Power BI