Senior Software developer Senior <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">developer</span> Senior Software developer - Allstate Insurance San Jose, CA Work Experience Senior Software developer Allstate Insurance December 2016 to Present • Created and maintained impactful dashboards in Tableau to measure, monitor Key performance indicators (KPI) like loss ratio, Renewal/Retention, cost per claim and reported any changes to the underwriting team.  • Increased telematics app enrollment by 26% by conducting A/B tests and analyzing the results of the test.  • Analyzed data and created visualizations on an adhoc basis for Marketing, Product, Underwriting team for better decision making.  • Provided insight on fraudulent Claims by pointing out anomalies in data through exploratory data analysis, identifying outliers using box plots.  • Ran reports in Service now to monitor incident metrics, conducted trend analysis to find the root cause of problem. Software Developer Allstate Insurance June 2012 to December 2016 • Eliciting requirements through joint application development sessions, workshops and brain storming for understanding business needs by collaborating with geographically distributed cross functional teams.  • Conducted gap analysis and impact analysis of more than 20 projects to suggest change implementation.  • Extracted data from IMS and RDBMS using SQL, PL/SQL. Reduced query processing time by 25% by use of selective indexing and SQL performance tuning.  • Cleaned and transformed 1 million customer claim records by treating missing, duplicated, contradicting records for Claim data analysis using SQL, excel.  • Created macros in Excel to automate monthly performance reports.    • Conducted trend analysis on terminated policies to identify causes of terminations by performing data wrangling in pandas and suggested measures to reduce terminations by proposing process changes. Education Bachelors of Engineering in Engineering Mumbai University June 2008 to June 2012 Skills DATA ANALYSIS, PL/SQL, SQL, TABLEAU, PYTHON, MATPLOTLIB, PANDAS, EXCEL, MS EXCEL, Java Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/jaishreewadhwa