IT Specialist IT Specialist Technical Support Representative Dover, NJ Work Experience IT Specialist Diversified - Union, NJ November 2017 to Present Manager: Charles. O'Donnell, 973-659-0911.  I was part of an I.T team known as Geek Squad that comprises of highly skilled and specially trained Computer Agents. I collaborate with the team to ensure a smooth workflow and efficient organization. Under my supervision, we were able to ensure customer(s) satisfaction by providing online client technical support. I strategically assess and recommend to our clients a way to improve their internet surfing without increasing their risk to computer virus attacks. Technical Support Representative Diversified - Kenilworth, NJ 2017 to 2019 07033.  Manager: Josh Banks  I work at diversified as an I.T configuration specialist. I am the lead on all the Bank of American rollout, project, and services. The other responsibilities include the following:  • Strong understanding of PC Internal components particularly with PC environment.  • Administration of Microsoft Windows Desktop Environment (XP, Windows 10 LTSB, Vista, 7,8)  • Building a PC using individual components.  • Remote access technologies/ software such as VNS, Remote Desktop, telnet, SSH Troubleshoot hardware and software issues.  • Rewiring internet cables. Software Developer Jetnor Ghana Limited 2007 to 2011 Manager: Timothy Yaw, +233-243-548900  I was part of a team tasked to develop software for a diverse clientele, management of content and solving technical problems arising. As a part of a team, we were able to provide daily support to ensure our staff having the necessary tools to perform tasks efficiently. Software Developer Con-Imedia - Accra, GH 2007 to 2009 Ghana  Manager: Nii Adjei, +233-302-201955  I was responsible for the support and development of the company disaster recovery system and served as a team leader of a web design team. This team was also tasked with writing computer programs, advocating for the end user, performing tests and problem analysis for desktop as well as IT infrastructure work. I was again in charge of troubleshooting and resolving web application issues arising from customer and other departments with a 100% success Education bachelor's in Information Technology New jersey Instituted of Technology (NJIT) - Newark, NJ 2019 to Present Associate Degree in Professional Development County College of Morris - Township of Randolph, NJ 2015 Professional Diploma in Professional Development NIIT - Accra, GH 2009 High School Diploma in Professional Development Accra Technical Training College - Accra, GH 2003 Skills Desktop Support, Active Directory, It Specialist, Information Technology, Help Desk, Computer Repair, Network Support Assessments Technical Support — Expert April 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/fkascl1r4nwbiyn Proficiency with Microsoft Office: Mail & Calendar (Mac) — Familiar April 2019 Measures a candidate’s proficiency in using Microsoft Office Mail and Calendar tools to manage their workload. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/bplj9jfo2czsl9ir Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.