Internship - Sonepar-USA Internship - Sonepar-USA Internship - Sonepar-USA Chicago, IL Hard working, focused, and motivated to overcome the various challenges of ever changing  business environments. Experienced in working with both individual and team oriented  settings. My focus is to apply my learnings and experience to contribute to the success of an  organization through a position in the IT or data analytics fields. Work Experience Internship - Sonepar-USA Hamilton Township, NJ June 2018 to August 2018 Learned and integrated Power BI with current company software to streamline processes  resulting in relevant, accurate, and timely reporting  ? Identified and reported on call center KPIs in order to monitor for outlier activity and ensure  smooth business operations  ? Worked cross functionally using data analyst to find trends and patterns important to the customer  ? Applied critical thinking to various ad hoc requests driving creative solutions  ? Created SOPs to establish seamless knowledge transfer to existing team members Software Developer College Startup - Dayton, OH August 2017 to August 2018 Evaluated college market to identify need to provide cost effective reliable transportation  ? Developed critical front end features to simplify end user experience, including initial web  design and modified search bar Ivanhoe Golf Club - Mundelein, IL May 2007 to August 2013 Team oriented work that revolved around customer service and course care Education Computer Information Systems in Information Systems University of Dayton - Dayton, OH September 2012 Skills DATA ANALYST, DATA COLLECTION, POWER BI, MYSQL, CISCO, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, PHP, JAVA, CSS, MIPS, BI, COLLECTION, EXCEL, WORD Additional Information COMPUTER PROFICIENCIES    ? Experience in Java, Javascript, HTML, CSS, PHP, and Databasing  ? Management and development of functional webpages and software using MySQL, Java,  and PHP  ? Comprehensive understanding of Power BI, processors, MIPS, Excel, Word, Microsoft  Lookout, Data analyst, and Cisco data collection