Full-stack Developer/ Software Engineer Full-stack <span class="hl">Developer</span>/ <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Full-stack Developer/ Software Engineer - BayInfotech I am a software engineer with 8 years of experience that specializes in web and Mobile Application design and development. I am seeking a competitive and challenging environment where I can serve a business and establish an enjoyable career for myself.Iamina constant state of learning, and I want to continue to improve and grow in a company where We build things people want and ease their daily life through technology.  - 8 years of professional experience in the IT Industry as a Front-End Developer in Developing User Interface (UI) applications, requirements analysis, applications design development, integration, maintenance, installation, Integrating, Implementing the web-based applications and UI applications.  - Strong communication, collaboration & team building skills with proficiency in grasping new technical concepts quickly.  - Problem solving to provide clients with a pleasant overall user experience.  - Strong in understanding JavaScript and Functional programming.  - Self-starter, inclined to learn new technologies and a good team player with good communication, organizational and interpersonal skills.  - Flexible enough to learn anything fast and adapt.  - Authorized to work in the United States for any employer. Work Experience Full-stack Developer/ Software Engineer BayInfotech - Dublin, CA January 2011 to Present Responsibilities:  - Designed the user experience interface UI/UX strategy, UI requirements, converting findings into UI designs  - Construct a powerful and modern frontend architecture involving React, Redux and ES6.  - Developed ReactJS forms to manipulate text within HTML5 views.  - Created a web-application portal for inter-hospital collaboration through the bootstrap framework using UI/UX.  - Used React-Native for the mobile web development.  - Responsible for developing a front-end application using ReactJs and Redux architecture for internal team's productivity use.  - Good Understanding of Document Object Model (DOM) and DOM Functions.  - Experience with Responsive Web Design, JSON, AJAX, AngularJS, React JS.  - Experience and knowledgeable in new versions of Javascript ES6 and ES7.  - Experience in connecting multiple microservices using GraphQL.  - Experience in scripting languages like React JS and Node JS.  - Expert in developing Object-Oriented Web applications using MVC architecture.  - Experience working in AGILE based development environment and participating in Scrum sessions.  - Proficient in Babel compiler and Webpack.  - Used JSON for storing and exchanging information between browser and servers.  - Solid understanding of OOP concepts.  - Worked on responsive design and developed a single responsive website that could be served to desktop, Tablets and mobile users using ReactJs.  - Used React-Router to turn application into Single Page Application.  - Designed CSS templates for use in all pages on the website working with CSS Background, positioning, text, border, margin, padding, and table.  - Extensive experience working with Cross-Browser Compatibility issues.  - Worked on responsive design and developed responsive websites that could be served to desktop, tablets and mobile users using React.js.  - Maintained states in the stores and dispatched the actions using Redux.  - Used Yarn and npm in managing the frontend and node modules respectively.  - Used Middleware, Redux-Promise in application to retrieve data from Back-End.  - Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) such as requirements gathering, modeling, analysis, design and development.  - Experience in working with No-SQL databases like MongoDB.  - Used Redux-Store for storing state of the React Application and worked with middleware for the Redux-Store.  - Expertise in React.js Component for UX-Library consisted of Button, Checkbox, Input, Icons, Toggle Button, Dropdown, Multi-Level Dropdown and many more.  - Used Agile and Scrum development methodology.  - Used GIT for version control.  - Worked on Life cycle methods to control the component, mount, rendering and unmount in ReactJS.  - Created React JS view components using Redux.  - Used React Router Redux to store the route parameters in the redux store.  - Used ReactJS with Redux to separate data and presentation layer. Utilized redux stores to handle the states.  - Responsible for developing the React Native reusable components, maintaining States into Redux through Actions and Reducers with Promise middleware. Also, Working with Axios Library to fetch data from network request.  - Design Entire Responsive Mobile Application through Sketch to React Native Component with the help of FlexBox, Styled-Components, React Navigation, Vector Icons Libraries etc.  - Designed and developed custom MongoDB applications specific to clients needs.  - Involved in developing backend services using Nodejs.  - Used NodeJS and ExpressJS to create non-blocking input output models on the server side.  - Extensively used NodeJS promises to request data form third party API's.  - Extensive usage of flexbox.  - Used Babel to transpile ES6 and JSX into ES5.  - Maintained the existing mobile app built using React Native Framework.  - Designed project structure, navigation setup, state persistence/redux, and authentication.  - Built cart-checkout feature with React/Redux libraries.  - Extensive usage of flexbox, Dimensions API for support for many mobile device design.  - Component for UX-Library consisted of Button, Checkbox, Input, Icons, Toggle Button, Dropdown, Multi-Level Dropdown and many more.  - Created and used Reducers that received said Actions to modify the Store State Tree.  - Collaborated with the designer, providing creative input and technical feasibility.  - Worked across full technology stack to deliver end to end solutions.  - Responsible for design and development of various components such as tab bars, map view, image picker, document picker, push notifications, sign-in/out features, profile management and navigation using react native. Education Bachelors in Computer Application in Computer Application Gujarat University June 2010 Skills Git, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, REDUX, JSON