Sailpoint IAM Developer Sailpoint IAM <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sailpoint IAM Developer - Oregon Portland, OR • Experience in Testing, Design, Analysis, Development, Implementation and Configuration Specializing in SailPoint Identity and Access Management  • Experience in building custom workflows, rules, policy, provisioning in IAM.  • Experience in building quick links and Creating Custom Forms.  • Extensive knowledge in Design, Development, Deployment and Support of IIQ.  • Worked on SailPoint IdentityIQ product with a good deal of experience in Access Management, Workflow, LCM, Certification, Rules, and Policy.  • Experience in designing, installing and upgrading identity and access management applications.  • Worked on upgrading Sailpoint Versions 6.4, 7.0, 7.1, 7.2 and worked on Patching 6.4, 7.0, 7.1 Versions.  • Experienced in working on Authoritative and Non-Authoritative Applications Configuration using Active Directory, LDAP, Flat file, JDBC, Oracle Database Direct and Sales force, Web Services connectors.  • Experience in designing and deploying Identity and Access Management Solution to improve user experience and meet compliance.  • Experience in Software Development Life Cycle Entailing Requirement analysis, design, development, testing and trouble shooting.  • Very good experience in different types of connectors like Delimited File, JDBC, LDAP, AD and custom connectors according to client requirements  • Experience in designing, installing and upgrading identity and access management applications.  • Strong understanding of internal technical of Sailpoint IIQ, Role Based Access Control (RBAC), Governance and Access Certification in Sailpoint.  • Great experience in administration of User and Role Provisioning, Connectors, Workflow, Certificate Management, Session Management, Encryption technologies and directories like LDAP, MS Active Directory  • Involved in participating in self-code review, client code review, and making and writing proper documentation as per client request.  • Drafted use cases and functional requirement specifications for migration from existing OIM system to Sailpoint IIQ framework.  • A good communicator and team player with excellent inter-personal skills.  • Authentication and Authorization as well as Custom-built Security and Technology Frameworks.  • A quick learner with the ability to make solutions-oriented, creative and innovative contributions in highly demanding situations.  • Great experience in User Management, Password Management, Account Management, Entitlement Management, Role Management, Web Access Management, Directory Services.  • Ability to work independently as well as in a team with a great deal of zeal to learn new technologies and techniques.  • Experience of creating custom email templates, configuring target applications. Work Experience Sailpoint IAM Developer Oregon - Portland, OR September 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Experience in SailPoint IdentityIQ and integration of IdentityIQ with LDAP, AD, Logical, JDBC and delimited file applications  • Developed application provisioning policy forms that would take managers input on access request and propagate the information to the ServiceNow ticket using IdentityIQ ServiceNow integration module  • Worked on role definitions and role based birthright provisioning  • Created custom workflows for contractor extensions and employee provisioning  • Developed and configured lifecycle events for user transfer, user termininate and native change detection  • Developed rules in beanshell - Application rules, identity trigger rules, aggregation rules, connector rules, ceritification rules and policy rules  • Designed and developed policies aroundSOD, activity and advanced business rules  • Configured logical applications and managed entitlements with custom rules  • Worked on custom tasks for aggregation threshold check to manage JDBC application account aggregations  • Configured event based and continuous certifications for manager and application owner review  • Experience integrating IIQ with ITSM tools like ServiceNow and Remedy  • Developed custom rules for certifications like Exclusion rules, sign-off approver rules, delegation rules period enter rules  • Worked on logical applications with complex account matching rules  • Managed service accounts and developed rules around maintaining service accounts in IIQ  • Create standalone rules for data cleanup and data manipulation activities SailPoint IAM Developer Western Alliance Bank - Phoenix, AZ November 2015 to August 2017 Responsibilities:  • Experience on Design, Development, Implement, and educate on SailPoint build processes including code migration, Installing and configuring across multiple cross platform  • Perform Integration and hands on experience with multiple applications using Java such as AD, Exchange, RDBMS, Flat File LDAP and Service now.  • Developing custom Tasks and Task Executors and providing solutions for the changing business requirements.  • Customizing Out of the box workflows.  • Gathered requirement from clients and used that requirements to implement roles in SailPoint. Hands on working with client post implementation for user testing, debugging, support, and maintenance.  • Experience on building propelled services to be incorporated on the IIQ Dashboard to give custom elements to the end-users.  • Worked on the tasks like approval workflows, customizing on boarding workflows, Job change workflows.  • Experience on Build Map rules Pre-Iterate rules and Customization rules.  • Customize the User Access request portal, Self-service Request, OOTB quick links and populations.  • Responsible for publishing requirements, installation, architecture, run-book, specifications and configuration documentation.  • Performed unit testing and involved in bug fixing of the applications and actively involved in production related issues. IAM Developer ATOS - Dallas, TX May 2013 to September 2015 Responsibilities:  • Releasing the Builds to QA Team in a phase wise manner.  • Application on boarding and Implementation of applications and identities.  • Handling Joiners, movers, leaver's process for high risk business areas by provisioning, de-provisioning and amending accesses within 24 hours SLA.  • Perform Installation and configuration of SailPoint IdentityIQ  • Developed custom workflows and rules as per business requirement.  • Involved in Configuration and development of Sailpoint Life Cycle Events (LCM)  • Designed Custom tasks, Custom Reports to cater client needs in IIQ (SailPoint).  • Creation of manual identities in Sailpoint IIQ for temporary/contract staffs. Create identity Life Cycle workflows, defining life cycle events.  • Implementing End user Access Request.  • Setup applications Active Directory, LDAP, Oracle and Flat Files.  • Implemented and Customized Manage Access and Manage Identity modules as per customer requirements in SailPoint IIQ.  • Developed custom reports with client specific requirements to attain their Revocation and Audit Report.  • Interacting with the clients for requirements.  • On boarded Delimited file applications, LDAP, UNIX and ESS applications.  • Customizing and branding of SailPoint.  • Communicating with the development team and Implementation of Password management of SailPoint IIQ  • Developed Service Now Custom Connector with SailPoint which tracks the ticketing system in Service Now and returning ticket status to SailPoint  • Experience with Java server side and enterprise applications using JSF, Servlets, Web logic Application Server, JBoss, XML.  • Developed the rules like build map, correlation and manager correlation rules.  • Group configuration for provisioning, certification and Remediation requests Software Developer Wells Fargo - Charlotte, NC February 2012 to March 2013 Responsibilities  • Worked extensively using WebSphere Studio Application Developer  • Developed XML's as part of Web Enrollment application. These XML's were used as data feed for another web application.  • Designing and coding the UI Framework using Struts (JSP/Servlet) and business logic  • Application on boarding and Implementation of applications and identities. Implementation Password management of SailPoint IIQ.  • Created Stored Procedures, Functions and Triggers.  • Extensively used design patterns like Singleton, Factory, Abstract Factory etc.  • Involved in Analyzing, Designing and Implementing all of the Business User Requirements  • Developed Maven build scripts and involved in deploying the application on Eclipse IDE.  • Developed Oracle SQL and PL/SQL procedures, queries, functions and packages for various database operations  • Developing Build scripts using ANT for packaging and deploying the application  • The business logic is developed using J2EE framework and deployed components on Application server where Eclipse was used for component building.  • Responsible for developing and deploying web components on WebSphere Application Server  • Implemented logging using log4j and developed robust exception handling and error reporting mechanism.  • Implemented Web Services using SOAP protocol, UDDI, WSDL and Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) Concept.  • Involved in the development of design and security documentation for SailPoint IIQ components.  • Extensively involved in Unit testing and coordinated with the testing team and fixing Bugs at various stages of the application development.  • Worked on bug fixing and enhancements of change request. Education Bachelor's Skills Linux, XML, HTML, Javascript, jQuery Additional Information Technical Skills:    Identity and Access Management: SailPoint IIQ, 6.x, 7.x, IdentityNow.  Directory Server: Sun LDAP, Microsoft AD  Operating systems: Linux, Windows XP, Windows 7/8/10, Windows Server  Languages/Technologies: Java/ J2ee Technologies, XML, JSF, SAML  Databases: Oracle, MySQL, MS-SQL, DB2  Application/Web servers: Tomcat, WebLogic  Other Utilities: IDE Eclipse and NetBeans