Senior Software Developer Senior <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Software Developer - Siemens Technologies and Services Work Experience Senior Software Developer Siemens Technologies and Services February 2017 to Present Technical lead HCL Technologies Ltd November 2010 to July 2014 Senior Software Developer    Achievements  ? Got U Make difference award for automating Camera and Clean Mode Features.  ? Got Night Out Award for improving the EPLG capacity to support more than 1000 dormant sessions per cell.  ? Got 91.67 percentile in GATE examination held in 2009.    Projects  Siemens Technologies And Services  Project: Sinumerik HMI Test automation  Description: Sinumerik Test automation where we write test scripts to automate the testing of HMI Panel used for monitoring Cutting and drilling tools in the field.  Responsibilities  • Understand the requirement and prepare the test specification documents.  • Created python scripts to automate the testing of HMI (human machine interface) panel.  • Developed a Common Functions which will be useful for all the Teams.    Environment: Windows and Linux, Python  Tools: Squish and IBM Clear Case And TFS    Project: Report Analysis tool  Description: we have developed lot of scripts to test the Sinumerik HMI. Every day we will run all the scripts, but it is very difficult to analyze the logs. So, we developed a tool to analyze reports generated after every nightly Run.  Responsibilities: Developed a python script using modules Pandas, matplotlib.  Environment: Python Pandas, Matplotlib.  Tools: Squish and IBM Clear Case And TFS    Project: Telecom Analytics at Radio Access Network (RAN)  Description: We developed a prototyping frame work to analyze the telecom data. Successfully completed the working prototype model for Telecom Analytics at RAN implementing various use cases and currently improvising the model for extending the same to other technologies and use cases.  Responsibilities  • Worked with Analytics team - A self-motivated study team to create innovations out of Telecom Data  • Coding and verification  • Demo of working model to all the intended users across globe at various stages of development and further improvement based on feedback    Environment: Linux, Python, Clear Case And JIRA    Project: Integration of UNAC Diagnostic Test Failure Alarm  Description: WCNP provides diagnostic audit test framework for UNAC resources (RC, SMM, OMNI) for troubleshooting purposes. A default set of pre-defined audit tests are available in a test configuration file. The default set contains all the supported audit tests. The user has a choice to choose individual or a subset of the tests from the default set using flxsetdgnconfig tool. Security State audit diagnostic test is introduced by WCNP FID 164810. This test should be enabled on EVDO ATCA RNC by running flxsetdgnconfig tool on RC. When a minor alarm is raised by WCNP for diagnostic test failure, Atcaagent shall report an INFO message only for the security state audit test. Alarms raised by WCNP for all other diagnostic tests shall be ignored.  Responsibilities  • Requirement gathering across all the global labs  • Lead the Complete Design and development process  • Coding and verification  • Write unit test cases  • Demo of working model to all the intended users across globe at various stages of development and further improvement based on feedback.    Environment: Linux, shell script  Tools: Clear Case and JIRA    Project: EPLG (EVDO Packet Load Generator)  Description: EPLG is an Alcatel-Lucent proprietary simulator supporting the Mobile Terminal (AT) and Base station (HCS) simulation on dedicated Linux rack systems which is used for generating the bulk loads of calls to the Radio Network. EPLG is deployed at the labs mimicking client sites and put EVDO RNC under heavy load for sustained period of time. EPLG supports almost all the field scenarios including Handoffs, BHCA, and Session register deregister and traffic.  Responsibilities  • Responsible for performing functional testing and System testing  • Check the performance of the system    Environment: Linux, Shell Script, Python, Basic SQL    Project: EPLG CLI interface and config restoration  Description: Because of heavy call loads EPLG runs on multiple Linux boxes and configuring each of the box through GUI consumes a lot of time of testers. Also repeated configuration makes the setups error prone and less conducive to favorable results. So automated the complete load generation process by storing the one time successful configuration into XML file and reusing the same again and again. Developed the CLI interface along to finish the execution without connecting to individual GUIs. These developments reduced the total load bring up time by 1/4th.  Responsibilities  • Responsible for performing functional testing and System testing  • Check the performance of the system    Environment: Linux, Shell Script, Basic SQL    Project: Supporting Multi-Functionality for EPLG  Description: EPLG supports different functionalities pertaining to various in-call scenarios in 1x EV-DO technology, like, basic calls, soft hand-offs, inter-frequency hand-offs, idle hand-offs, paging, busy hour call attempts, etc. of different personalities. However, there was a limitation that only one of these functionalities could be executed on a particular EPLG Type-1 machine at one point of time- this limitation was overcome with the introduction of multi-functionality feature. Multi-functionality helps trigger different functionalities on different instances of the same EPLG Type-1 machine.  Responsibilities: • Responsible for performing functional testing and System testing • Check the performance of the system  Environment: Linux, Shell Script, Basic SQL Education B. Tech Annamacharya Institute of Technology And Sciences M.V.N.R Junior College APRS School Diploma in system software development CDAC Additional Information Technical Skills    Operating System: Linux, Windows  Language: Python, Shell Script  Configuration Management Tools: Clear Case  Tools: Squish, Putty, WinSCP, JIRA  IDE's: Squish