Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer - Incentive Technology Group Lewisburg, PA Recent graduate of computer science and computational mathematics with six years of professional software engineering experience that complements scienfic research-oriented coursework. Accustomed to working as part of a team as well as spear-heading individual development efforts. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Developer Incentive Technology Group - Arlington, VA June 2014 to Present • Perform multiple duties as a member of an Agile team developing a new web app for a government client.  • Contribute to development of Angular/TypeScript front-end project and Java EE back-end REST project.  • Spearheaded development of Maven plugin to convert back-end Java models into equivalent TypeScript models, saving the front end workers from duplicating code and introducing inconsistencies.  • Spearheaded Bootstrap upgrade and resolved breaking changes.  • Develop BIRT Reports using Eclipse, facilitating data awareness for clients and developers.  • Added requested enhancements to enterprise-level company-wide password safe, a Java Spring-based web app with GWT UI connected to a MySQL database via Hibernate.  • Added features to open source PHP web app for asset tracking that uses Laravel web framework.  • Developed Python modules for OpenERP installation.  • Wrote Python and Bash scripts to interact with large amounts of data on a Raspberry Pi, using RabbitMQ and AWS services, including S3, Cognito, and Kinesis.  • Wrote instructional documentation for both users and developers. Capstone Project Rochester Institute of Technology August 2018 to December 2019 * Developed proof-of-concept to incorporate fully homomorphic encryp?on into a highly efficient data analytics platform to  support secure data analytics and machine learning on encrypted data in the cloud.  * Built on a custom C++ shared library for FHE utilized by Apache Spark Scala modules, available for use in Java and Scala code. Software Developer Intern Definitive Logic - Arlington, VA June 2011 to August 2013 • Migrated company website from static PHP pages to Drupal, a content management system (CMS).  • Used Google APIs, Google Apps Script, Google gadgets, and Google Sites in order to migrate company portal to Google.  • Developed customized dashlets and workflows in Alfresco, an Enterprise Content Management System (ECMS) using the Alfresco JavaScript API and Alfresco web services to create a Training Request Management System. Education Master's in Computer Science Rochester Institute of Technology - Rochester, NY August 2017 to May 2019 Bachelor's in Computational Mathematics Rochester Institute of Technology August 2013 to May 2017 Skills Visual studio, C/C++, Docker, Git, HTML, JavaScript, TypeScript, ORM, Python, Eclipse, Java, JBoss, MySQL, SQL, Maven, EC2, Apache, CSS, HTML 5, JQuery, Angular, PHP, MATLAB