Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer - Smartried software technologies Pvt ltd Having total 2 years of experience in Python and Django for developing applications and Automation bots.    • 2 years of experience in developing applications using Python and Django.  • Proficiency in Object Oriented Programming (OOPS) concepts.  • Hands-on experience on developing web applications using HTML, JavaScript and CSS  • Ability to handle multiple tasks and assignments concurrently in cross-functional teams and a flexible team player able to communicate with all levels of personnel.  • Strong experience in backend development and solid understanding of web architecture.  • Solid understanding of full life cycle of application development. Work Experience Software Developer Smartried software technologies Pvt ltd April 2017 to Present Python, Django, JavaScript, HTML, CSS    Project Summary:  Project #1:  Product: Integrated Banking System.  Technologies used: Python, Django, MySQL, Django Rest Framework,  Team Size: 4  Duration: July 2017 to March 2018  Description:  I have developed python modules to handle request data, process data and render response. This response is JSON response. I have used Django Middleware layers to handle exceptions, etc. Used OAuth module to handle user authentication, and have written layer above that to make authentication modularized. All modules developed are reusable components which can be reused with minimal changes.    Responsibilities:  • Developed python modules for handling request, response and processing data.  • Design the Web Pages and user controls using Python, Django.  • Understanding of Functional specifications provided by client.  • Integrate the server with different servers.  • Development of admin panel for the tool.  • Analyzed the code completely and have reduced the code redundancy to the optimal level  • Requirement clarification from the client, TL and PM .    Project #2:  Project title: Automation Bots  Team size: 6 Members  Environment: Python  Modules used: Pandas, Openpyxl, xlsxwriter, win32com.client  Duration: April 2018 to March 2019  Description:    Automation Bots sense and synthesize vast amount of information and can automate entire processes or workflows, learning and adopting as they go. Applications ranges from routine to revolutionary from collecting, analyzing and making decisions about textual information .Based on the business requirement document we will be analysing the requirement and creating the automation bots.Each bot has a different business logic.These bots were helpful mainly to reduce the amount of manual work internally .It is already helping companies transcend conventional performance trade-offs to achieve unprecedented levels of efficiency and quality .Ingest and analyze the massive amount of textual information to respond quickly to complex inquiries.    Responsibilities:  ? Analyzing the business requirement document.  ? Used Pandas to read the data from xlsx, xls files and doing the operation on the data structures.  ? Used Openpyxl to load the data to xlsx sheets.  ? Making day to day changes in the project as per client request.  ? Tested the bots by using different inputs provided by client.  ? Fixing the issues reported by the client.  ? Coordinating with the team to meet the client requirements.  ? Reviewing the code of other team members.  I hereby declare that the information furnished above is true to the best of my knowledge. Additional Information Technical Skills:  Programming Languages: Python  Web Frameworks: Django  Web Technologies: JavaScript, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap  Database: SQL, Oracle  Other Tools: GIT, SVN, Pycharm.    Operating Systems: Windows, Unix/Linux.