Software Engineer <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Software Engineer - REI Systems Got Master's Degree at Carnegie Mellon University and had 2 years of working experience at Fortune 100  Insurance/Financial Services company as an Application Developer. Experience in designing and developing  object-oriented systems using C#, .NET technologies. Well versed with Software Engineering principles and  Development Methodologies for the entire Software Development Life Cycle, solid programming skills in C#,  JAVA, SQL, MongoDB, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, AngularJS. Work Experience Software Engineer REI Systems - Sterling, VA February 2019 to Present Technologies: C#, ASP.NET MVC, RESTful API, Entity Framework, LINQ, AngularJS, Bootstrap, TFS, NUnit  Description: Involved in the enhancement of EHB system built for Health Resources and Services Administration  (HRSA). The system is an end-to-end grant support and performance management application that unifies grant  management processes across HRSA's 90+ grant programs.  • Added and enabled new feature in HAB Formula system using C# and .NET MVC framework and SQL Server.  • Used Entity Framework and LINQ to do the ORM and communicate with the database.  • Developed various generic JavaScript functions used for client-side validation and interactivity.  • Followed TDD pattern and wrote unit test cases for business modules. Software Developer Elbum LLC - New York, NY June 2018 to February 2019 Technologies: C#, ASP.NET MVC, Entity Framework, LINQ, HTML, CSS, AngularJS, Bootstrap  Description: Developed a full-stack web app for the construction team, which is used for customers to gather details about upcoming and past construction projects, such as construction progress, floor plans, resources and FAQs. We also built the backend system to enable the admin to create new sites or fully maintain and modify the sites themselves.  • Developed the backend admin service for system owners to create new sites, update construction details using C#.  • Designed database schema, tables and stored procedures in MS SQL Server 2014.  • Developed interactive and responsive UI utilizing AJAX, Bootstrap, CSS and JavaScript.  • Led the procedure of the whole product development cycle, collaborated with different partners and customers to ensure the product specifications are well defined and delivered on time. Application Developer Nationwide Mutual Insurance - Columbus, OH November 2016 to June 2018 Technologies: SharePoint, AngularJS, MEAN stack, Mongo, NodeJS, Chart.js, SQL Server, PowerShell, C#,  ASP.NET MVC, Bootstrap, CSS, Azure, TFS, GIT  Description: Worked in the agile scrum environment, using GIT and TFS for version control and team collaboration.  Supported the early stage of SharePoint Online Migration and developed a web app to help secure the internal 8000+ Nationwide Mutual Insurance 2017 to 2017 and won the 2nd prize of our group.  • Worked with Information Risk Management team, developed a web app using .NET MVC framework and SQL Nationwide Mutual Insurance 2014 to 2014 to protect SharePoint On Premise sites.  • Created an automatic C# program to scan 8000+ SharePoint sites every day to update the site-owner relationship and identify the sites with confidential documents using Symantec DLP API.  • Designed and developed the Dashboard for the admin to analyze the progress of the project using Chart.js.  • Wrote LINQ and lambda expression to perform DML operations from Entity Data Model.  • Designed and developed the automated email system to alert and inform site owners about the process of cloud  migration, using PowerShell script and SQL database.  • Used MEAN Stack to upgrade the existing SharePoint sites, provide better UI and visualize the data on dashboard. Education Master of Science in Engineering Carnegie Mellon University August 2015 to August 2016 Bachelor of Engineering in Engineering HoHai University - Nanjing, CN August 2009 to June 2013 Skills SQL (3 years), C# (3 years), MODEL VIEW CONTROLLER (3 years), MODEL-VIEW-CONTROLLER (3 years), MVC (3 years) Links https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=51yxkw-LP-M Additional Information SKILLS  Languages: C#, JAVA, Python, PowerShell  Web technologies:ASP.NET MVC, MEAN Stack, Django, HTML5, Bootstrap, CSS, XML, JSON, JavaScript,  AngularJS, NodeJS  Database: SQLite, SQL Server, MongoDB  Cloud Environment: AWS, Microsoft Azure