Software Engineer <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Software Engineer - Conduent Austin, TX Software Engineer based in Austin with three years of experience in designing, developing,  testing, and maintaining Java enterprise applications. Proficient in creating business  applications using Java as well as front end development using JavaScript frameworks such as  React and Angular along with Node.js and Express. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Engineer Conduent - Austin, TX March 2019 to Present Tasked with providing support and resolving any issues in Struts backend of medical  record system.  ? Responsible for migrating legacy Struts project to modern React framework.  ? Design and create REST API to be used alongside React system.  ? Write unite and functional tests for React application. Application Developer Hamer Enterprises - McAllen, TX May 2016 to March 2019 Provide ongoing development and maintenance for Java payment and billing system  software sold by company.  ? Responsible for redesigning and updating older projects to be responsive and mobile- friendly for a smooth user experience.  ? Ensure Java projects are up to date with all requirements needed to comply with strict  ADA regulations.  ? Responsible for designing and developing an administrator permissions system using  Java which is now used in multiple company projects.  ? Provide technical support for customers using payment and billing systems.  ? Create and maintain required SQL database tables for web applications. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science University of Texas Rio Grande Valley - Edinburg, TX Skills Firebase, Html, Javascript, Node.js, Db2, Sql, Java, Jsf, Mongodb, Css, Websphere Links https://www.github.com/arios91 https://www.alex-rios.me Additional Information Technical Skills  • Java • JavaScript • React  • JSF • Angular • MongoDB  • SQL • Node.js • Heroku  • HTML/CSS • Express • IBM Db2  • PrimeFaces • Firebase • IBM WebSphere