Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer Arizona City, AZ Work Experience Software Developer Visa Inc - Bengaluru, Karnataka July 2016 to July 2019 SKILLS  Software Developer • Technologies and Frameworks: Angular, NgRx, React, Node JS/Express framework, JQuery,  Visa Inc. Lodash, HTML, CSS, OOPs, MATLAB, Django, July 2016 - July 2019 Bengaluru, India Oracle SQL, MongoDB  Worked in developing the Visa Developer Platform, an • Languages: Java, Python, C++, JS, SQL  open platform that provides access to hundreds of Visa  APIs and software development kits for some of Visa's HONORS & AWARDS  most popular payment products and capabilities.  • Developed a responsive UI using Angular, Node, Bootstrap, • Mentor in Women In Technology Association  JQuery, Lodash and JavaScript. (WIT) at Visa Inc.  • Integrated a Content Management System and built a pipeline • Served as a General Secretary for ISTE student  for self serve content authoring. chapter, NITW  • Worked on the web security aspects like cross site scripting • 'Star award' winner for demonstrating excel- and SSL. lent leadership & collaboration skills to ensure  • Increased the visibility of our platform by 46% by improving critical projects are delivered smoothly.  the search engine optimization. • Received a 'Go Beyond' for supporting  • Built an automated CI-CD pipeline using Ansible and Jenkins and driving the innovation sessions and for deployment which addresses the scaling and reliability of Hackathons at Visa Inc.  the micro-service architecture. • Best Event Manager Award for running the  • Worked on writing test suites for NgRx projects. Aerosmith(event of Technical Fest) Summer Intern Goldman Sachs - Bengaluru, Karnataka June 2015 to August 2015 India • Developed Developers Community, a one- Reporting Tool stop portal where businesses and developers  Built an interactive reporting tool which collates the data come together to share their ideas, insights, and solutions.  about various vendors. It uses Angular for client side ren- dering and REST APIs in the backend to connect to the Or- • This enhanced the engagement activity on the  acle Database. portal and eased the clients to get on-board  seamlessly. Education Master's in Computer Science in Computer Science Arizona State University - Tempe, AZ August 2019 Bachelor of Technology in Computer Science in Wherzit National Institute of Technology - Warangal, Telangana September 2012 to June 2016 Skills MYSQL, Javascript, Git, MYSQL, Javascript, Git, CSS, HTML 5 Links http://linkedin.com/in/paila-harshita Assessments Data Analysis — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's skill in interpreting and producing graphs, identifying trends, and drawing justifiable conclusions from data. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/xwj7x0vigcn6hcgv Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.