Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer - CMS, MD Frederick, MD • Around 6 years of experience in Analysis, Design, Development, and Implementation of service-oriented, component-based, and event-driven J2EE software systems. Proficient in Object-Oriented analysis of business requirements, Business Process Modeling and solid hands-on experience developing Client/Server and Intranet/Extranet based multi-tiered applications  • Proficient in developing n-tier enterprise Web applications using Java/J2EE technologies like Servlets, JSP, EJB, JMS JDBC, Spring Framework, Struts, REST and SOAP Web services, XML, JPA, Hibernate.  • Well versed with Java 8 features like Lambda Expression, Stream APIs and improved Collection APIs.  • Experience working with CD/CI pipelines using Docker and Jenkins.  • Deployed Web Applications using Oracle Web Logic, WebSphere and Apache Tomcat.  • Experience in ORM framework like (Hibernate and JPA).  • Worked extensively in SQL and PL/SQL  • Excellent knowledge of 508 compliance.  • Good Knowledge on Log4j, SwaggerUI, Maven, Gradle, Apache Ant  • Good understanding and hands on experience using several Design Patterns like Singleton, Factory, Session Facade, Business Delegate, Data Access Object, Data Transfer Object.  • Experience working with NoSQL database like Elasticsearch  • Extensive Experience in developing REST and SOAP based Web Services  • Extensive experience in developing web and enterprise applications with development tools like Eclipse, RAD and Visual Studio code.  • Worked in Waterfall model and different Agile methodologies like Scrum and Test-Driven Development Approaches  • Developed and maintained the existing application content on cloud-based architecture using Amazon AWS, experience in using various SCM tools such as Git and SVN.  • Good working experience in writing unit test, integration test, mutation test, and performance test using tools and frameworks like Selenium Web driver, Junit and JMeter.  • Experience on different operating systems like UNIX, Mac and Windows operating systems. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Developer SSA, MD December 2015 to April 2017 Project: TPPS  System that will track the payment process on a day-to-day basis to increase internal control, efficiency of office operations and comply with Office of Management and Budget. The TPPS intranet System will allow the TPPS users to record and issue drafts and EFT payments to Vendors, Employees, and Beneficiaries in a most efficient manner. In addition, the web pages will move users logically and intuitively along the business workflow, from one business process to the next and from screen-to-screen.  Responsibilities:  • Followed Agile Methodologies for design and development of the application  • Involved in Scrum meetings for effective development  • Designed and developed web application modules using Java/J2EE, RESTful web service, Spring Boot, Elasticsearch (NoSQL), Maven, Gradle, SwaggerUI and PostgreSQL  • Designed and developed web tier components and RESTful APIs using Spring 4.0  • Utilized Java 8 features like Lambda expressions, Java Stream APIs, improved Collection APIs  • Unit testing, integration testing, API automation testing, E2E testing using JUnit, Selenium and Mockito  • Worked with Continuous Integration/Continuous Deployment pipeline to deploy Docker containers on Mesos cluster with Marathon as the container orchestration platform and Jenkins for executing automation jobs.  • Developed UI using Angular framework along with HTML5, CSS and NPM.  • Extensive knowledge and well versed in building queries to fetch data from Elasticsearch using Sense.  • Used GIT as Version control system.  • Used project management tools like Confluence  • Worked on project following test driven development, pair programming, continuous integration approach and practiced Agile methodology (Scrum).  • Managed multiple project tasks with changing priorities and tight deadlines.  • Worked with HP ALM to fix the defects and update the defect status.  • Worked on setup the Selenium workspace for application testers.  • Worked on implementing the selenium scripts for user interface navigation.  Environment: Java, J2EE, Angular, JUnit, Eclipse, Visual Studio code, Visual Studio code, Postman, PL/SQL, PostgreSQL, HTML, Spring Boot, Hibernate, JUnit, Selenium, Log4j, Elastic search, Docker, Mesos, Marathon, Jenkins. Software Developer SSA, MD July 2014 to November 2015 Project: My Employees  My Employes is centralized location for employees and managers to look there details. can quickly access a wide range of information of their employees to achieve their day-to-day business. This includes current Employees General, position information, Employee Details, Appraisal, Award.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in complete Life Cycle of the project starting from design to Testing of the application.  • Developed application modules using Spring MVC, Spring Annotations, Spring Beans, Dependency Injection and database interface using Hibernate.  • Designed and developed web tier components using Spring MVC 3.0.  • Used Hibernate as an ORM mapping tool and worked with Hibernate Query Language (HQL).  • Defined the Hibernate Configuration File, Hibernate Mapping using annotation and created classes to persist the data.  • Produced and consumed the web services data in the form of JSON, XML.  • Implemented Services layer to communicate with Front end of the application.  • Developed classes using core java (collections, memory management) and some spring IOC.  • Extensively worked on writing JUnit test cases for testing the business components developed in spring and Java.  • Used JQuery for front-end UI validations and creating dynamic HTML content.  • Used AJAX Framework to create Controllers for implementing Classic JavaScript event handlers and implemented flexible event model for managing multiple event call backs.  • Used Maven configuration for the project management.  • Used GIT for source control and Jenkins for continuous integrations.  • Worked on HP ALM as user requirements and bug tracking tools.  • Involved in extensive testing like white-box, black-box, unit testing, validation and integration testing  • Developed functions and store procedures using SQL.  • Wrote database queries using SQL and PL/SQL for accessing, manipulating and updating Oracle database.  Environment: Java/J2EE, Linux, HTML, Hibernate 3.0, SOAP, RESTful, Agile Methodology, CSS3, JavaScript, Eclipse , JQuery, POJO, XML, AJAX, JBOSS EAP 6.1, JUnit 4, Log4j, HP ALM, JIRA, Confluence, Jenkins, SQL, Oracle 11g. Java Developer Boston Scientific, MN October 2012 to April 2014 Project: UDI  The Global Unique Device Identification Database contains key device identification information submitted to the FDA about medical devices that have unique device Identifiers (UDI). Boston Scientific established an internal UDI System to aid in the submission and tracking of UDI data submitted to FDA's GUDID for BSC's commercially distributed devices.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the application like Requirement gathering, Design, Analysis and Code development  • Used the Model View Controller (MVC) architecture to decouple the business logic and data  • Developed the application using Struts framework  • Implemented Action Classes and Action Forms using Struts framework  • Implemented client-side validations for Search and Security modules using JavaScript and Struts Validation Framework  • Designed UI using JSP and HTML, and validated with JavaScript for providing the user interface and communication between the client and server  • Wrote Action classes, Business Objects and Service classes  • Configured Struts-config.xml with all the mappings required by the architecture  • Used Struts tag libraries in the JSP pages  • Used various design patterns like BOs, DAOs, TOs, and Facades etc.  • Used Object/Relational mapping Hibernate framework as the persistence layer for interacting with SQL  • Worked on Hibernate object/relational mapping according to database schema  • Used SQL statements and procedures to fetch the data from the database  • Written DML statements to insert update and delete the data to/from the database and DDL statements to create or drop tables in/from Database  • Used Log4j to provide central logging facility  Environment: Java, J2EE, JDK, Spring, Struts, Hibernate, Web logic Application Server, JDBC, Servlets, JSP, Log4j, Web Services, SOAP, JUnit, HTML, XML, JavaScript, Apache Ant, Oracle, AJAX, UML, Web Logic, Apache CXF, JQuery, JSP, Servlets, Oracle, CRUD, Eclipse, Maven, SVN. Education Master's Skills ECLIPSE, EJB, J2EE, JAVA, HIBERNATE, MYSQL, Javascript, Git Additional Information Technical Skills:  Languages JAVA/J2EE, C, C++, SQL, HTML, CSS  Java/J2EE Servlet, JSP, EJB, JSTL, JMS, JDBC, JUnit, Web Services, XML, JAXP, JTA, custom tag libraries, Java8  Web Technologies HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, JQuery, CSS, AJAX, Angular, Bootstrap, Web Services (SOAP, JAX RS, WSDL, REST).  Databases Db2, MySQL  Database Tools TOAD, MySQL Workbench  OR Mapping Hibernate ,JPA  Web/Application Servers WebSphere, Web Logic, Apache Tomcat  Frameworks Spring Boot,Micro services, Struts, Hibernate, MVC, Spring MVC, Junit, Selenium  Operating Systems Windows, UNIX  IDEs/Versioning/ Performance/Tools Eclipse, RAD, SVN, GIT, Maven, Log4j, SOAP UI, Jenkins, Gradle, Postman, DBVisulizer  Methodologies Waterfall Model, Agile Scrum  Others DOM, SAX, JAXB, JAXP, Junit, Confluence, Bitbucket, Source tree, JIRA, HP ALM