Team Member Team Member Team Member Singapore , DP • Having 3 Years of experience in Java Technologies.  • Excellent Java development skills using Html, CSS, Java Script, Core Java, J2EE, Groovy, Grails Framework.  • Good Knowledge in Java Script Frameworks like React, Angular.  • Good knowledge in various levels of the Software Development Life Cycle.  • Ability to learn new technologies with minimal time period. Work Experience Team Member ZO Campus June 2012 to July 2013 Team Size 8  Environment  Technologies: Java, Groovy On Grails.  Framework: Grails 2.x  RDBMS: MySQL  IDE: GGTS  Web Server: Apache Tomcat Server    Description  ZoCampus.com [http://zocampus.com] is an educational portal, to bring communication technologies and e-commerce activity onto a single platform for education institutions and related organizations.  We envision empowering the educational community by providing one-stop access to information, Our three-pronged approach of creating an online web presence, automating school administration and creating an interactive e-commerce platform will enable educational institutions to benefit from technology in terms of integrated, easier and faster communication - and bridge gaps between prospective partner organizations. Software Developer Eksper Technologies Pvt Ltd February 2010 to May 2012 Worked as a Software Developer for Zocampus Pvt Ltd at Hyderabad From June 2012 To July 2013.  • 2014 to 2017 learned Angular js and developed small project on Angular js.  • 2017 to 2019 registered in online training course (programming with mosh) for learning reactjs and developing project on reactjs. Software Developer Eksper Technologies Pvt Ltd February 2010 to May 2012 Team Size 4  Environment  Technologies: Java, Groovy On Grails.  Framework: Grails 1.3.7  RDBMS: MySQL  IDE: STS  Web Server: Apache Tomcat Server    Roles & Responsibilities  • Involved in understanding the data flow and business requirements of the project.  • Involved in Design and Development of Graphical User Interface Screens By using  GSP, JavaScript, JQery, Ajax.  • Coding groovy Domain classes To Handle the Business Logic.  • Used Jdbc to create Database Connection, Excel Uploading.  • JavaScript, JQuery is used for Client side Validations.  • Involved in Unit/Functional Testing as part of Developer Testing. Education M.C.A Bapatla Engineering College - Bapatla, Andhra Pradesh 2007 to 2010 Skills JAVA (3 years), MYSQL (3 years), RDBMS (3 years), TOMCAT (3 years), JAVASCRIPT (2 years) Additional Information Primary Skills: C, C++, Html, CSS, JavaScript, JAVA, Groovy, Grails.  J2EE: JDBC, SERVLETS, JSP.  Frameworks: Struts and Hibernate, Grails, React, Angular.  Operating System: Windows.  RDBMS: Oracle10g, MS-Access, MySQL.  Servers: Tomcat  Tools: STS, GGTS, VS Code.