Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> .NET Developer Aurora, IL Full-stack .Net Developer   with 4+ years web   development experience.   Worked both solo and within   teams to bring projects from   design to production.    Seeking an opportunity to utilize   knowledge of newer front and   backend technologies in order to   deliver quick, responsive, and intuitive   user experiences. Very interested in   DevOps services and fully automated   testing, integration, and deployment   workflows. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Developer American Guardian Warranty Services, Inc - Warrenville, IL October 2017 to Present Lead developer on AGWSclaims, an internal and external platform for filing and   managing claims on vehicle warranties. (.NET Framework)   • Design (with guidance from upper-management) and implement an application from initiation through implementation to production.   • Create additional RESTful API for consumption in mobile app and by 3rd parties.   • Conduct code reviews of team member’s commits. Web Developer EBE Technologies - East Moline, IL March 2015 to September 2017 Developed and maintained multiple web-based employment forms targeted at the   trucking industry   • Coordinate with vendors and partners to implement custom integrations.   • Review and query databases to find the cause of bad data and correct it. Education Bachelor's in Computer Science Augustana College - Rock Island, IL 2012 to 2016 Skills .NET (4 years), HTML 5 (4 years), Javascript (4 years), SQL (4 years), Vue.js (2 years), React (Less than 1 year), C# (3 years), Azure (1 year), CI/CD (1 year), Webpack (2 years), Git (2 years), Entity Framework (2 years), Typescript (1 year), Blazor (1 year), SignalR (2 years), Bootstrap (3 years), Jquery (4 years) Links http://linkedin.com/michael-j-currie https://github.com/Basaingeal Additional Information Open Source Work  • Primary maintainer of the DefinitlyTyped webappsec-credential-management project for Typescript.   • CurrieTechnolgoies.Razor, a set of Razor Component Libraries to extend Blazor functionality and work with popular JS libraries. (e.g. SweetAlert2, Clipboard)  • Nursry – an open source Vue/GraphQL SPA for tracking baby needs such as eating and sleeping. (parenting-app-client on Github)