Software Engineer <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Software Engineer at Dynata Emeryville, CA Work Experience Software Engineer Automated Vendtech October 2018 to Present • Independently developing an Inventory management system for the organization using Zoho Application.  • Developed independent test cases for the kiosk software application and identified, documented, reported bugs and other issues for the application.  • Worked collaboratively with QA and the development team to complete comprehensive testing before releasing the product.  • Worked with tools like JIRA, Confluence and Bitbucket and Java. Software Developer[Volunteer] Code for Social Good June 2017 to December 2017 • Added backend features to the site and created REST API's to support new user registration and sending emails.  • Working on Java Spring framework for backend features.  • Followed sprint reviews and daily scrum meetings to touch base with whole team and ensure that all members were performing satisfactorily. Software Developer G10 Solutions January 2017 to December 2017 • Java backend developer for the core platform that would be used for issuing railway tickets.  • Designed, implemented and supported the project from its initiation.  • Worked with REST APIs for supporting the front end clients like Web and helped scale the infrastructure. Business Intelligence Developer Fractal Analytics September 2015 to October 2016 • Developed sophisticated analytical frameworks that add value to addressing client needs.  • Worked on developing a tool that pulls data automatically from clients depending on requirements to load into Spotfire. Worked with REST APIs and Java for the code development  • Support for 'Market and Share Insights' monthly report in Spotfire for major CPG firm for its regional business around the globe. Used statistical tools to identify and evaluate the relationships between data fields, analyze output and determine the next action.  • Involved in a monthly process of data extraction, harmonization and validation. Timely completion of all deliverables allowing sufficient time for quality checks, analytic and business context reviews and associated revisions  • Tools worked with: Spotfire, Knime, M.S. Excel, MySQL, Alteryx Software Developer Intern Insight Social June 2015 to August 2015 • Created a Facebook and Twitter Windows Desktop Application using C#.Net that integrates Facebook and Twitter feeds providing merged wall and combined status update feature.  • Features include a common wall and a separate status update below each post that posts status to the respective account. Education Bachelors of Engineering in Computer Science University of Mumbai June 2015 Diploma in Engineering in Computer Science University of Mumbai June 2012 Skills JAVA (3 years), SPRING (Less than 1 year), C# (Less than 1 year), SPOTFIRE (1 year), EXCEL (1 year) Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/yugmakishor http://www.github.com/yugmamoradia Additional Information Skills and Expertise  • Programming Languages: Java, C#, SQL, HTML, CSS, Python.  • Other Skills: Data Structures, Algorithms, Spring framework, Hibernate, Object Oriented Programming.  • Analytical Skills: Sql, Spotfire, Alteryx, Knime, MS Excel.