Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer - California Resources Corporation Bakersfield, CA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Developer California Resources Corporation - Bakersfield, CA March 2019 to Present • Reduce work hours by developing process automations to perform daily auditing on invoices for contracted vendors, saving 63% of the time spent manually performing audits while increasing volume and accuracy (C#, .NET, VB, SQL).  • Design, develop, and configure process automations per low level design and technical design documentation to meet  defined business requirements (C#, .NET, VB, SQL).  • Daily administration of the production environment and managing process workloads to bots (running processes, maintaining resource virtual machines, viewing logs, etc.).  • Maintain the flexibility to facilitate change requirements as part of a structured change control process, further  enforcing SME relationships. Software Engineer Advanced Network Solutions - Bakersfield, CA September 2017 to February 2019 Developed in C#, ASP.NET and SQL Server, high performant Web Forms applications that handles content/project  management, administration, web portals, etc. per customer's specifications.  • Produced PowerShell & Batch scripts to save time collecting users' info and optimize business process efficiency.  • Deployed Automate scripts to automate backups, software upgrades, troubleshooting and hardware configurations.  • Maintained and monitored SQL Server databases; used T-SQL and PowerShell to automate offsite server backups. Software Developer, Intern ConfigFab - Sacramento, CA March 2017 to September 2017 • Utilized Agile methodology and object-oriented programming to build website using C#, HTML, and JavaScript.  • Wrote Bash scripts to perform sensitivity analyses and wrote Excel VBA scripts to provide automated pricing.  • Added features and rewrote pricing sheet for clients and wrote regression tests for new features.  • Improved performance from the old GUI by using low lock times, non-blocking I/O, async events, and caches. IT Student Assistant UC Davis School of Medicine - Sacramento, CA June 2016 to September 2017 • Created and managed users within Microsoft AD and Citrix XenApp; configured group policies in enterprise setting.  • Provided support for Microsoft Office suite and collaborated with O365 team to ensure successful deployments.  • Set up new computers/wireless accesses and performed tier 2 technical support of Apple and Windows PCs. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science University of California - Davis, CA September 2013 to June 2017 Skills C#, C++, Django, Html, Javascript, Bootstrap, Node.js, Php, Python, Pandas, Sql, Asp, Css, Asp.net, Sass, Java, jquery, Linux, Excel Additional Information Technical Skills RPA, C#, ASP.NET, Python/Pandas, Java, C++, SQL, Linux, Excel  Web & Design HTML, CSS, JavaScript, PHP, Django, Bootstrap, Sass, React.js, jQuery, Node.js