Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> WEB DEVELOPER | SOFTWARE ENGINEER Austin, TX Passionate IT professional with a strong desire to produce high quality results. Constantly seeking out learning opportunities. Obsessed with efficiency and end user satisfaction. Works well in team environments and enjoys collaborating with others to get the best results possible. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Developer General Motors - Austin, TX 2017 to 2019 Supported and enhanced a custom web application designed to facilitate machine and equipment spare part documentation, reporting, and location organization. Responsible for developing full stack solutions and supporting end users when necessary with application help and bug fixes.  ? Worked collaboratively with end users to redesign and merge 3 existing applications into 1 to provide a simplified business solution with increased efficiency and user satisfaction.  ? Developed solutions for 7 scheduled and 5 bug fix releases consisting of front end enhancements and back end functionality  ? Created 10 new SQL stored procedures and improved 40 existing stored procedures with improved functionality while updating to a new code standard for easier understanding and maintainability.  ? As a member of the QA team, tested and reviewed application code to find and eliminate application bugs.  ? Participated in application security reviews to find and patch security flaws.  ? Onboarded 10-50 new users weekly while providing support as needed.   ? Streamlined the account creation process by creating a new request organization and tracking system. BI Developer Leggins 2016 to 2017 Worked with end users at all levels to design and create business intelligence solutions for improved information delivery and increased productivity.  ? Created a global dashboard using IBM Cognos Analytics that improved service centers' ability to make optimized daily business decisions.  ? Implemented ELK server logging and built custom Kibana dashboards for a web application to assist with identifying production issues to drastically shorten problem reaction time and decrease downtime.  ? Presented the installation and demonstration of ELK software to build custom BI dashboards to entire division of 75-100 people.  ? Provided Elasticsearch installation support for 2 other teams.  ? Designed tables, charts, and other types of visual representations for quick decision making while also providing the ability to drill down for finer details when necessary.  ? Wrote custom data-layer functions for unique business required fields. Siebel Developer General Motors - Austin, TX 2015 to 2016 Key team member involved with updating graphics and development tasks.  ? Customized Siebel UI sections using jQuery and CSS.  ? Performed application administration involving LOVs.  ? Created 10 graphics for use with a new case priority feature.  ? Assisted with upgrading from Siebel 8.1.1.11 to Innovation Pack 2015. Education Bachelor of Science in Informatics in Informatics Indiana University - Bloomington, IN 2011 to 2015 Skills Javascript (3 years), jQuery (2 years), HTML 5 (4 years), CSS3 (4 years), Python (1 year), AngularJS (Less than 1 year), SQL (4 years), VBScript (1 year), Cognos (1 year), Siebel (1 year), MySQL, ReactJS (Less than 1 year) Links http://linkedin.com/in/paulleggins