Java Developer Java <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - ADP ? 6+ years of experience in analysis, design, development, integration, and testing of client/server-based applications using Java and J2EE object-oriented technologies and Front-End JavaScript/TypeScript frameworks like AngularJS, Angular 4.  ? Experienced in using Agile Methodology including creating product/sprint catalogs, active participation in Scrum, Sprint Planning, and exit meetings.  ? Experienced in design and development of various web and enterprise applications using J2EE technologies like Spring, JSP and REST/SOAP Web Services.  ? Experience in developing robust, interactive User interfaces in Angular6, AngularJS and NodeJS.  ? Experience setting up the project structure & build configurations with Angular CLI.  ? Well versed in core Java concepts like Collections, Multithreading, Remote Method Invocation (RMI), Serialization, Java Beans.  ? Experience in development and deployment of applications using JBoss, BEA Web Logic Application Server, IBM Web Sphere Application and Apache Tomcat.  ? Extensively worked on implementing SOA (Service Oriented Architecture) using XML Web services (SOAP, WSDL, UDDI and XML Parsers). Work Experience Java Developer ADP - Pasadena, CA September 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Involved in the whole product life cycle including requirements gathering, application development, testing, and application deployment.  ? Responsible for Requirements gathering from the customer and creating the Technical specification documents.  ? Developed robust REST web services using Spring REST web services.  ? Implemented Microservices using Spring Boot and Spring Cloud.  ? Utilized Zuul Filter as a pass-through Layer for all the microservices.  ? Utilized necessary Netflix OSS libraries for developing the microservices.  ? Implemented Secure Authentication with Active Directory - LDAP & OAuth2 for generating tokens in the application using the Spring Security.  ? Used Spring - JDBC for Database operations.  ? Used Hyland-OnBase to store the documents and integrated it with the application using SOAP web services.  ? Worked with Apache Maven 3.0 for handling various spring dependencies.  ? Used Java, J2EE design patterns like DAO, DTO, and Singleton, etc.  ? Working on various AWS services like S3, EC2, ECS, Cloud trail, VPC, RDS, Route 53, SNS, Lambda.  ? Deployed the application AWS EC2 instances.  ? Worked with AWS S3 services, creating buckets and configuring them.  ? Wrote various High-Level Technical design document and Low-Level Technical design documents.  ? JConsole is used for the performance and stability improvement of the application.  ? Performed Unit Testing using JUnit.  ? Implemented the interactive and responsive web UI components in Angular 4.  ? Setting up project structure and build configurations using Angular CLI.  ? Interactive UI is developed using HTML, CSS, and Bootstrap 4.  ? Have experience working with Third-Party Libraries like JQX Widgets, PrimeNG, etc.  ? Used npm, bower for managing different libraries on UI.  ? Configured Jenkins as the CI tool for the application.  ? Implemented various tasks which would help in building the UI code by minifying the HTML, CSS and JS code using gulp, NodeJS.  ? Also developed an interactive Offline version of the web application using the PouchDB, IndexedDB and Local Storage.  ? Wrote complex PLSQL stored procedures in Oracle 12c.  ? Used Liquibase for Database Refactoring.  ? Involved in data migration from Microsoft Access DB to Oracle 12c.  ? Implemented various scheduling jobs in Oracle performing the required operations in the DB.  ? Deployed the Web Application on AWS using various services like EC2, RDS, etc.  ? Used Power Designer tool for the DB design and maintaining the data model.  Environment: J2EE, Java 1.8, Spring Framework 4.2, Spring MVC, REST Web services, SOAP, XML, Java Beans, JQuery, Angular JS, JavaScript, Oracle 12c, SVN, CVS, Apache Maven, JUnit, XSLT, HTML/DHTML, NPM, Bower, Gulp, PouchDB. Senior Software Engineer Fidelity Investments - IN June 2014 to May 2018 Responsibilities:    ? Developed using new features of Java 1.7/1.8 like Annotations, Generics, enhanced for loop and Enums, etc.  ? Developed the functionalities under Agile Methodology.  ? Worked in all the modules of the application which involved front-end presentation logic developed using Tiles with Spring MVC, JSP, JSTL, JavaScript and AngularJS, Business objects developed using POJOs and data access layer using Hibernate framework.  ? Worked with microservices using Spring Boot.  ? Involved in writing Thread Safe blocks for multithread access to make valid transactions.  ? Created and injected Spring services, Spring controllers and DAOs to achieve dependency injection and to wire objects of business classes.  ? Used Spring Inheritance to develop beans from already developed parent beans.  ? Used DAO pattern to fetch data from database using Hibernate to carry out various database-specific operations and avoided redundant database access statements and thus achieved decoupling and flexibility.  ? Used Hibernate Transaction Management, Hibernate Batch Transactions, Hibernate cache concepts.  ? Created session EJBs that retrieved information from the Oracle database using Spring- Hibernate.  ? Developed various generic JavaScript functions used for validations.  ? Developed screens using JavaScript and Angular JS.  ? Used NodeJS modules for building the UI code.  ? Used AJAX extensively to implement front end /user interface features in the application.  ? Implemented SOA to develop Web services using Apache Axis.  ? Developed Web Services clients to consume those Web Services as well other enterprise-wide Web Services.  ? Worked on various AWS technologies like EC2, SQS, DynamoDB.  ? Exposed the Web Services to the client applications by sharing the WSDL's.  ? Created DDL and DML SQL scripts for creation of database objects.  ? Created logical and physical data models putting to practice, concepts of normalization and RDBMS.  ? Database development required the creation of new tables, PL/SQL stored procedures, functions, views, indexes and constraints, triggers and required SQL tuning to reduce the response time in the application.  ? Extensively used Spring IOC, Hibernate, Core Java such as Multi-Threading, Exceptions, Collections, etc. in the application.  ? Focused on Test Driven Development; thereby creating detailed JUnit tests for every single piece of functionality before actually writing the functionality.  ? Experience with basic WebSphere Administration- like JMS, Data Source Configurations, Listener port configurations.  ? Used Rational Application Developer (RAD), to develop and debug application code.  ? Utilized DOM, SAX parser technologies in implementing XML parsing framework.  ? Used Apache Maven for project management and building the application.  ? Used Log4j utility to generate run-time logs.  ? Used Jenkins for the continuous integration of the application.  ? CVS was used for project management and version management.  ? Deployed the application on Websphere 8.0 application server.  Environment: J2EE, Java 1.7/1.8, Spring framework 3.5, Spring MVC, JSP 2.0, JSF, Servlets 2.3, Hibernate , AJAX, Web services , SOAP, XML, Java Beans, Jenkins, XStream, Apache POI, JQuery, Angular JS, JavaScript, Oracle 10g, IBM RAD, Websphere 8.0, Agile Methodology, Design Patterns, CVS, Apache Maven, JUnit, HtmlUnit, XSLT, HTML/DHTML. Software Engineer Kakatiya Solutions - IN November 2012 to May 2014 Responsibilities:  ? Involved doing Analysis, Design and developing middleware using Servlets, Java Beans, Hibernate, Spring and doing enhancements and issue resolutions.  ? Involved in User Requirements and created System Requirement Document, Functional Requirement Documents.  ? Developed business logic using Session Beans and Entity Beans.  ? Developed various Spring rest controllers for request mappings and created JSP custom tag libraries for the application.  ? Designed, implemented and tested the Spring4.x Domain Model for services using Core Java.  ? Designed the presentation using Struts Framework and command pattern for the middle tier.  ? Developed the action classes, Action form classes, created JSP's using Struts tag libraries and configured in Struts-config.xml, web.xml files.  ? Worked on Struts Action classes, Action forms, Struts-config.xml and Tiles-defs.xml.  ? Used Struts Validator Framework for server-side and client-side validations.  ? Used Struts Tiles Framework for the development of the user interface.  ? Involved in designing EJB 2.0 Components with various EJB design patterns like Service Locator, Session Façade, and Business Delegate.  ? Used Spring ORM module to integrate with Hibernate.  ? Involved in writing ORM code using hibernate and also developed Hibernate mapping files for configuring Hibernate POJOs for relational mapping.  ? The package, build, Integrate and deploy enterprise J2EE applications on WebSphere that involves EAR and WAR.  ? Implemented Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) using JMS for sending and receiving messages while creating web services.  ? Worked on Web Services using SOAP and RESTFul.  ? Deployed the application on WebLogic Application Server and perform other administrative activities on WebLogic application server via Linux  ? Wrote the validation XML files and properties file needed for validating user inputs.  ? Created Restful Web service for updating customer data from sent from external systems.  ? Involved in development of JSON database for dynamic menu management.  ? Used various design patterns for module design and development.  ? Followed Agile and Scrum Methodology in software development.  ? Worked with version control systems like Clear case, SVN, CVS, GIT, etc  ? Worked on AJAX to develop an interactive Web Application.  ? Wrote and tested Java Beans to retrieve trading data and subscriber's information from MySQL database server.  ? Used log4j for tracking and fixing bugs.  ? Performed unit testing, system testing, and user acceptance test.  ? Used Perforce for version control.  ? Developed RESTful web services for the Downstream Systems  Environment: Core Java, Java, J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, Servlets, CSS, HTML, JSP, XML, AJAX, JUnit, Perforce, JavaScript, Oracle 11g, IBM WebSphere8.0, PL/SQL, Agile, Scrum, RESTful Web Services, DOM, ANT, Net Beans, Web Services (SOA, SOAP). Education Bachelor of Technology in Computer Science JNTU 2012 Skills C++, Design patterns, Dtd, Html, Javascript, Typescript, Jenkins, Middleware, Subversion, Xml, Eclipse, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jax, Jaxb, Jax-rpc, Jax-ws, Jms, Servlets Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/sravya61 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Languages C, C++, Java, SQL, PL/SQL, Java Enterprise Edition  Web Technologies  Servlets, JS, TypeScript, Struts, Spring (IOC and AOP), Hibernate, MDBs, Session Beans, JavaScript, AJAX, Java Mail, HTML, HTML5, CSS, DTD, SCHEMA, XML, SAX, DOM, Angular JS, Angular 2,4,6    Web Services SOAP, WSDL, REST, JAX-RPC, JAXB, JAX-WS, Apache Axis  Databases Oracle, MySQL, DB2, Informix, SQL Server  Distributed/ Middleware JMS (Java Messaging Service)  Tools/ Software Eclipse, MyEclipse, RAD, Net Beans, SQL, TOAD, SQL Developer, Clear case, Subversion, JUnit, UML, AWS, Jenkins, Power Designer  Application/Web Server Apache Tomcat, Jboss7, Websphere8, and Web Logic  Operating Systems UNIX, Suse Linux, Windows  Protocols TCP/IP, HTTP, HTTPS (HTTP+SSL), TELNET, FTP  Other Tools & Design Patterns ANT, MVC, Front Controller, Service Locator, Business Delegate, Transfer Object, Singleton, Factory Pattern, DAO Pattern