Sr. Software Engineer Sr. <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Sr. Software Engineer - MasterCard O'Fallon, MO • 9+ years of hands on development experience with developing Windows, Web-based and client server applications using various Microsoft technologies Like Master data service in Master Data Management.  • Familiar with Azure services such as API Applications.  • Contributed in designing and architectural discussions as well as customer requirements sessions to support the implementation of complex C#.Net Programs with a MS Azure development tool suite.  • Experienced with Azure services such as API Applications.  • Contributed in designing and architectural discussions as well as customer requirements sessions in order to support the implementation of complex C#.Net Programs with a MS Azure development tool suite.  • Experience in Full Stack Asp.Net with AngularJS and having solid working experience in E2E web development stack and web security.  • Experience in building user-facing and backend content management (CMS) using HTML 5, JavaScript, Ajax, XML, Razor, JavaScript Framework, CSS, SOAP, REST, JSON, and Entity Framework  • Experienced in building SPAs (Single Page Applications) using Angular 2 and Angular 4 with the combination of HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Expertise knowledge of JavaScript Frameworks best practises and building custom widgets and libraries.  • Experienced in Microsoft Technologies (MS SQL Server, MS.NET)  • Good hands on experience with JavaScript Framework such as AngularJS and React.js Experienced in windows mobile apps using SDK ( Software Development Kit).  • Strong understanding on WCS run time framework, Front-end components, WCS tag libraries, WCS, EJB, Web Security and Web Services and experienced with OMS integration.  • Experienced in Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act and EDI transactions of Health Care Domain.  • Experience in .Net Entity Framework with great proficiency in creating applications using, ASP.NET, C#VB.NET, ASP.NET MVC, EF, ADO.NET, Node JS Cascading Style Sheets (CSS), JavaScript, IIS, SQL Server, and Visual Studio.NET.  • Competent in Object Relational Mapping (ORM) technologies such as ADO.NET Entity Framework and LINQ Entities, LINQ to SQL  • Developing experience in SQL Server, Oracle, CSS and Source Controls like Git, Azure Dev ops, Tortoise Svn and Team Foundation Server.  • Good knowledge in Data Ware Housing tools and database systems such as Oracle and SQL Server.  • Good working experience with MVC and View Model patterns in creating and managing Views, Partial Views, View Models, Web APIs using ASP.NET MVC, Custom Error Pages.  • Experience in C++, C#, Object Oriented analysis experience UML design patterns like MVC.  • Designed and developed front-end applications using EF, AJAX, AngularJS, XML, CSS, SOAP, REST, HTML and JavaScript, JQuery, Node JS, Bootstrap.  • Experience in design and implementation of using SOAP/REST, creating REST service using ASP.NET Web API.  • Experienced in solving Business problems and creating Business Logic through complex C# Application.  • Creating Business rules which are usually dependent on data received from store.  • Extensive experience in programming and scripting skills of automation of system administration tasks with PowerShell.  • Experienced in Microsoft CRM and using the SDK to integrate with other technologies.  • Experienced in developing of custom WCF web services, dialogue based workflows, plugins and integrating custom web pages into CRM.  • Solid Computer Programming skills in C++.  • Experience in writing complex User Defined Functions, Stored Procedures, Views, Triggers, and cursor using MS SQL Server.  • Extensive use of ADO.NET Datasets, Data Adapter, Data Reader, and XML to retrieve and store the data in Access DB.  • Experience with SSIS, SSRS, Winforms/WPF, EF, VB.NET, PowerShell.  • Good experience in creating reports using SSRS, T-SQL, Crystal Reports, SSIS. Work Experience Sr. Software Engineer MasterCard - O'Fallon, MO February 2018 to Present Software Engineer Salesforce - Indianapolis, IN May 2017 to December 2017 Synopsis: Salesforce marketing cloud Email Maintenance is responsible for enhancing Subscriber Preview, Test Send, Send Flow, URL Expiration, Approvals and Automation Studio.  • Responsible in maintaining Salesforce Marketing Cloud Email web application Using C#, ADO.NET, ASP.NET, MVC, WEB API, SOAP, REST, HTML, CSS, XML, JSON, JQUERY, JAVASCRIPT, NODEJS, REACTJS, ANGULARJS AND SQL.  • Responsible for translation of designer mock-ups and wireframes in to an Angular JS front-end.  • Responsible in developing the code for usability, security and performance of web pages.  • Involved in team for developing software through all lifecycle phases, from initial technical designs, Implementation, testing, delivery and maintenance of production deployment.  • Responsible in building Software as a Service (SaaS) Applications.  • Responsible for building client-side web applications using Angular 2 and Angular 4.  • Responsible in taking the ownership and handled multiple tasks simultaneously.  • Responsible for analysing complex issues and report to the higher management about the severity of threat to the Web application.  • Involved in fixing XSS (Cross site Scripting) issues as soon as possible and to make sure whether the application Is not vulnerable for XSS (Cross Site Scripting) issues.  • Responsible for testing the code change and deployment.  • Responsible for writing Unit Test with Karma.  • Involved in implementing new cutting-edge solutions using C#.NET, WEB API, JAVASCRIPT, NODEJS AND ANGULARJS.  • Strong understanding on Object Oriented Programming (OOP) and Design.  • Responsible In creating business rules according to requirement.  • Responsible for writing and supporting Data Access Layers using C# and ADO.NET.  • Responsible for communicating effectively with various business owners and technical staff members for designing, developing and configuring cutting edge salesforce.com business solutions.  • Responsible in writing Unit Tests, SDET using NUNIT and MOQ Frameworks.  • Responsible in refactoring the code based on testing.  Technologies: C#, ASP.NET, MVC, WEB API, REST, SOAP, HTML, CSS, ADO.NET, XML, JSON, JQUERY, JAVASCRIPT, ANGULARJS, NODEJS, REACTJS, BACKBONEJS AND SQL. IT - Technology Analyst Ayco - Saratoga Springs, NY January 2017 to April 2017 Microsoft Technologies | .NET Frameworks  Synopsis: The Tax Ops Technology is responsible for the systems that perform the classification, calculation and reporting of income and tax that is applicable to the transactions of most Goldman Sachs Clients. The tax system covers various regions and countries including the US, UK, Japan, Korea, Hong Kong and Others. The Ayco group is responsible for the systems that provide financial counselling and help and clients plan for their financial future. The System also provide the Administrative support for the Account Managers and Corporate representatives and configure to their specific needs.  Contribution:  • Participated in full software development lifecycle (SDLC).  • Involved in creation and maintenance of the web application, editing and updating lot of confidential and events information onto the database, which is written in ASP.NET, C# and with SQL Server as Backend.  • Integrate with backend Admin system to validate and display data to end user.  • Create complex SQL stored procedures, Views, Indexes in MS SQL Server.  • Actively involved in using React JS, Bootstrap and HTML5 to enable client side data to meet specific criteria by applying various validation variables  • Implemented web applications using C#, ASP.Net MVC, XML, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Ajax, Angular 2 and ADO.Net.  • Involved in scripting and automation using PowerShell.  • Using Sitecore created new folder in Media Library.  • Implement the JavaScript/JQuery frameworks such as ReactJS, NodeJS for MVW/MVC framework  • Created Knockout.js widget subsystem within .NET Jdash dashboard using typescript and inheritance.  • Involved in Two-step verification Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA) method by adding additional layer of security.  • Involved in developing critical applications with multi-tier, high availability, high volume distributed architecture.  • Knowledge on PowerShell for both SharePoint On-Prem and SharePoint online.  • Successfully implemented Azure Web Apps, Logic Apps and Web API Apps.  • Involved in writing PowerShell Scripts for running the services.  • Handle escalated support tickets till closure for MS Azure IaaS Platform.  • Involved in deploying, enhancing and customizing Content Management Systems (CMS).  • Involved in Architecting Cloud Solutions using Microsoft Azure for PAAS/IAAS scenarios.  • Involved in writing Unit Testing using NUnit and MoQ Framework.  • Developed RESTful applications on .Net Framework using Web API, C#.  • Used Unity Application Block to build a testable Windows Azure Services.  • Worked on Unit testing using Microsoft TEST framework, doing code analysis and code coverage metrics.  • Integrate upgraded payment gateway calls from client using Angular JS for cross domain function  • Developed Models, Controllers and Views for the web pages.  • Developed SQL Scripts to import data from xml files.  • Involved in developing and integrated persistent services in to PaaS such as ElasticSearch and building APIs for the team to take advantage of services.  • Involved in performing Design, build, configuration and administration of clusters and Standalone Microsoft SQL server installation, configuration and maintain SSRS, SSIS instances.  • Involved in creating, Optimizing and maintaining complex T-SQL as part of store procedures, views, Functions and Queries.  • Involved in performing Sybase Migrations.  • Involved in the release model, deployment life cycle team.  • Involved in SDET Testing and Bug fixing.  Technologies: ASP.net, MVC 4.0, Sitecore, XML, Web API, WCF, Entity Framework, JQuery, Unit Testing, JavaScript, Angular JS, ReactJS, Knockout JS, Azure, JSON, CSS, HTML, C#, SQL Server, PowerShell, SSIS, Sybase, GitHub, Visual Studio 2013 /2015 Software Engineer Argus Information and Advisory Services - White Plains, NY July 2015 to October 2016 • Involved in Analysis, Design, Coding, and Testing and maintenance phase of modules of software life cycle.  • Designed and developed complete front-end application using VB.NET Web Forms.  • Involved in developing web Application using ASP.NET MVC, XML, Angular, HTML, CSS, SSIS, SSRS, and Visual Studio SDK.  • Involved in rewriting the application from scratch using Html5, Css3, JQuery (jqGrid), AngularJS, ReactJS  • Involved in working with my team members to add mobile support using JQuery mobile and Knockout.js. This was used as selling point for our software.  • Experienced in consumer faced web application with SOHA, HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Designed web forms by implementing CSS3, HTML5 and JavaScript.  • Involved in analysis of functional requirements and designing of system.  • Working in Agile-Scrum development methodology. Jira tool used for maintaining user stories, sprint and backlog information.  • Involved in User story sizing, backlog review, kick-off and retrospective meetings.  • Using Sitecore edited word fields, Rich Text Fields, Media Items and Simple Text Fields in Page Editor.  • Built the application with ReactJS, with client custom architecture built over MVC4  • Followed strict SDLC with 4 week sprints including 1 week of requirement analysis and technical design.  • Responsible to load CSS and JavaScript files at runtime in order to change look and feel behaviours dynamically using SOHA.  • Developed user controls and custom controls.  • Responsible for overseeing the company's requirements, development, testing and deployment of Microsoft CRM projects.  • Responsible for maintaining and enhancement of the existing Content Management (CMS)  • Designed and developed hundreds of high tech SSIS packages for different ETL projects.  • Created Azure key vault to add secret (service account password, database password) to key vault.  • Worked on Unit testing using Microsoft TEST framework, doing code analysis and code coverage metrics.  • Designed and developed the user interface for various tools and implementedASP.NET/VB.NET validation controls, JavaScript, jQuery, CSS for server and client side validations respectively.  • Implemented client side Module pattern using Backbone.js and underscore.js  • Used Unity Application Block to build a testable Windows Azure Services.  • Import and export data within MS Excel and MS Dynamics CRM.  • Automating in Azure for creation of subscription, Storage Account and Table using.  • Experience in creating Snapshots in database and creating reports with latest snapshot in Excel using Power Query, Macros, and Power Pivot.  • Responsible in building RESTFUL Web Services using Azure.  • Storing confidential data with WPF using Azure.  • Responsible for Design, build, deliver and support Data Warehouse and ETL Structures and solutions.  • Implemented suite of PowerShell scripts to find bugs in look-up table implementation.  • Involved in using various transformations like Execute SQL task, Multicasting, Merge Join, Look Up, Script Task and Send Mail Task with SQL server.  • Transformed data from one server to other servers using tools like Bulk Copy Program (BCP), and SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS) (2005/2008).  • Developed Power Pivot Reports in Excel 2013 by publishing them to SharePoint 2013 for providing ad-hoc reports according to client need.  • Created SSRS reports & allowed saving of reports in different formats like PDF, EXCEL.  • Extensively involved to work with SSIS Packages and SSRS reporting tool.  • Implemented Multithreading Concepts to improve the application Performance.  • Developed/Maintained various WCF and Web services for customer information and e Credit check using Visual Studio 2008/2010.  • Responsible for working with the deployment teams during the deployments and initial testing of the application to QA, DEV and UAT environments through a well-defined set of procedures.  • We used Black -box testing to examine the functionality of the application without peering into its internal structures or workings.  Environment: .NET4.0/3.5, VS2010, C#.NET, XAMARIN, MVC, Sitecore, XML, Azure, AngularJS, ReactJS, CRM, ASP.NET, WEB API, VB.NET, JAVASCRIPT, HTML5, CSS3, UNITTESTING, SQL, WPF, T-SQL, SSRS, SOHA, FIDDLER, AGILE, TFS. Senior .NET Developer Halcyon Solutions - Dublin, OH March 2014 to June 2015 Responsibilities:  • Designed UI screens and code using Visual Studio, WPF, EF, VB.NET, AJAX, XML, SOAP, REST, JavaScript, AngularJS, React.js, Knockout JS, MVC, MVP, HTML, MS studio and CSS with object oriented programming techniques.  • Worked on various ad hoc quantitative modeling and programming assignments using SAS, SQL.  • Experienced in developing .NET WinForms SOAP, REST and WPF desktop application.  • Involved in architectural implementation through code and design  • Used Bootstrap and AngularJS, ReactJS and NodeJS in effective web design  • To retrieve the data in the form of objects and properties, such as customers and customer addresses, without concerning them with the underlying database where this data is stored using ENTITY FRAMEWORK.  • Designed and developed web and mobile application technologies and development using SOAP, REST and C#.NET.  • Using Sitecore implemented different type of Templates like Data Template, Standard Template and Brach Template.  • Customizing google maps depending on requirements by using ASP.NET, C#.  • Built the application with ReactJS, with client custom architecture built over MVC4.  • Involved in developing and implementing strategies to gather information from operational databases to include in Ware House.  • Designed and integrated ASP.NET front end using WCF Web Services and LINQ, and implemented client side validations for Web Server controls. Extensively used .NET validation controls for Client side Validation.  • Developed main view and single view dashboards as an extension of Dynamic CRM.  • Involved in integrating google maps in our application which provides free API's  • Executed command line and displayed the test results on command line by using Karma.  • Developed the frameworks using Asp.Net MVC4 and EF.  • Developed Graphic User Interface based (GUI) based web applications using Matlab.  • Developed Azure Active Directory Services, Identity Management and Multi factor Authentication  • Worked on Agile Methodology (Scrum) to meet timelines with quality deliverables.  • Involved in developing technical documentation (Excel, Word, PowerPoint, and Visio).  • Develop, test and analyze modelling and simulating software applications and their resulting products using, C++.  • Involved in developing page and item templates, Personalization rules and developing reports in Sitecore.  • Implemented analytical skills backed by high proficiency in dealing with data including Microsoft Excel, Access, SQL and Entity Framework formats.  • Design and development of user interface using ASP.NET, VB.Net, Azure, Windows Azure SDK 2.7, HTML, SOAP, REST, JavaScript, PHP, Bootstrap, CSS and JQuery.  • Developed an open-source web security application framework maintained by individual developers and corporations to address many of the challenges encountered in developing single-page applications using AngularJS, Node JS.  • Responsible for design and development of user interface using ASP.NET, VB.Net, HTML, Bootstrap, JavaScript, JQuery.  • Created & hosted WCF Services, EF and used different bindings to make it available to different types of clients.  • Used ADO.NET Entity Framework Model as the Data Access Layer (Database First) and implemented the CURD (Create, Update, Retrieve and Delete) operations, Mapping and executed stored procedures  • Structured the elements of computer programs, which expresses the logic of a computation with AngularJS without describing its control flow.  • Involved in testing windows store apps using Microsoft Test Manager.  • API which is the application programming interface (API) for both the web server and web browser.  • Used Oracle database 11g which provides scalability, performance and reliability on single server configurations.  • Involved in designing of the E2E solution utilizing reference architecture in project design work.  • Test and debugging interoperability technical design between delivered features and user controls.  Environment: C#, WEB API, GIT, SOURCETREE, JAVASCRIPT, MVC, Sitecore, AngularJS, ReactJS, CRM, VISUAL STUDIO 2013, MICROSOFT ENTERPRISE LIBRARY, SSRS, Knockout JS, MS EXCEL, CSS3, IIS 7.0., HTML5, XML, REST WEB SERVICES, SQL SERVER 2014. .NET Developer Idaho Transportation Department - Boise, ID November 2012 to November 2014 Responsibilities:  • Gathered the requirements from users to prepare low level design, high level design and coordinate development.  • Developed the front end using C#, MVC4.0, MVP, SiteCore, JQuery, SOAP, REST, Ajax, JavaScript, AngulrJS, Backbone.js, CSS, Bootstrap, HTML/HTML 5.0  • Involved in Manufacturing Execution system projects from inception through completion such as Project Initiation, Design, Development, testing and deployment of Manufacturing Execution System.  • Implemented the backend code of the application in C# using various object oriented features like classes, interfaces, inheritance, polymorphism etc.  • Responsible for developing cross-platform mobile apps such as Android using Xamarin and components utilizing the latest tools on Microsoft.  • Used Xamarin. Forms to build native user interface for Android.  • Involved in completing Manufacturing Execution System related changes by gathering the problem statement, Improving the state of the systems (MES and target systems) by implementing optimal solutions.  • Involved in developing web security application under Agile methodologies.  • Knowledge on Azure Virtual Networks, Traffic Manager and BizTalk Services.  • Developed web application with E2E development stack.  • Successfully developed solutions on Microsoft Azure Platform.  • Enforced standards for CSS across the application.  • Implemented Client validations using JavaScript, AngularJS and JQuery.  • Used ADO.NET Entity Framework objects and LINQ to manipulate and retrieve data from the database.  • Manipulated with Database Objects like tables, stored procedures in SQL to communicate with database.  • Implemented .Net components to consume SOAP and REST web services and WCF web services.  • Experienced in Word, PowerPoint, Excel and Visio.  • Implemented Microsoft office products, especially SharePoint, OneNote and Visio.  • Involved in N-unit testing of the application with different sets of inputs.  • Responsible for preparing deployment plan and keeping track of it.  • Proactively participated in production support and maintenance activities after the release.  • Actively participated in Agile process (SCRUM) along with the team to deliver core functionality within agreed timescales.  • Created Scrum and Minutes of Meeting documents.  Environment: Visual Studio, C#, MVC, Xamarin, Manufacturing Execution System, MVP, WCF, Ajax, CSS, Bootstrap, Html, Microsoft Azure, AngularJS, ADO.NET, Entity Framework, C#, XML, IIS, JavaScript, SQL Server. .NET Developer Hitech City India - Hyderabad, Telangana September 2011 to September 2012 Responsibilities:  • Analyzed, designed, and developed software systems based on service oriented architecture which formed basis for the solution of information processing problems in the field of investment banking using .Net 3.5, C#, C++, WinForms  • Involved in creating new web services and enhancing the existing services  • Developed custom classes and types using OOPs concepts  • Involved in developing database tables, stored procedures, complex queries and views.  • Used DevExpress WinForms controls in designing user interfaces  • Responsible for communicating with different teams regarding programming needs integration issues and other system related issues.  • Documented code consistently throughout the development process by listing a description of the program, special instructions, and any changes made in database tables or stored procedures.  • Prepared the unit test plans and executed it for the components developed.    Environment: .Net Framework 2.0, Asp.Net, C#.Net, C++, Ado.Net Entity Framework Model, Pl/SQL, IIS 6.0, SQL Server 2005, Windows Server 2000/XP, JavaScript, Visual Studio 2005 .NET Developer People Tech Group - Hyderabad, Telangana April 2008 to March 2009 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for developing the Business Logic using C#, C++ and VB.NET  • Participated in the system study and preparation of software requirement specifications and Database design.  • Handled Run Time Errors & Design Time Errors by implementing appropriate Error Handlers in ASP.NET and C#.Net.  • Developed custom controls and used them in multiple areas to reduce the complexity in User Interface design.  • Involved in developing business logic in WCF that can be commonly used by other team to capture the data  • Involved in developing data services using ADO.NET Entity Frame Work Objects like Data Sets, Data Adapters, Data Readers, Data Views to capture data from database and display them at UI using Data Control Data Grid  • Developed SQL queries, stored procedures and triggers to handle the business rules and data integrity and database integration.  • Involved in writing the documentation, testing the applications using the Use Case diagrams and providing training to the users and team members.    Environment: Visual Studio 2003, C#, C++, .NET Framework 2.0/3.0, VB.NET, ADO.NET Entity Framework, SQL Server, Windows 2000/2003/XP. Education MBA University of Sunderland - London 2011 Bachelor's in Computer Science in Computer Science Osmania University 2007 Skills .net, Visual studio, Application server, C#, Git, Html, Javascript, .net framework 3.0, Wcf, Reporting tools, Scripting, Vb.net, Visio, Visual basic, Xml, Ado, Db2, Ms access, Ado.net, Ms sql server Additional Information Technical Skills:  Operating System WINDOWS Vista, XP Professional, Gulp, UNIX/LINUX.  .NET and Web Technologies C#, VB.NET, ASP/ASP.NET, ADO.NET, Web Services, Azure, AJAX, WPF, WCF, WF, MVC 4&5, LINQ , HTML XML, CSS , WSDL, UDDI and NET Remoting.  Frameworks .NET Framework 3.0/3.5/4.  Programming Languages C, C#, Visual Basic, PL/SQL and T-SQL  Scripting Languages VB Scripts, JavaScript, AJAX, JQuery, Angular JS.  RDBMS MS SQL Server 2005/2008 R2/20012, MS Access, DB2 and Oracle 10g,11g  Tools  Visual Studio .Net2013/ 2015, Adobe Dreamweaver, Adobe Flash, Adobe Photoshop, MS Visio and Microsoft Testing Tools, QTP, Selenium Testing Tool    Version Controller MS Visual Source Safe (VSS) and Team Foundation Server (TFS), GIT  Application Server Internet Information Server (IIS) 6.0/7.0/7.5, Tomcat, WebLogic  Reporting Tools Crystal Reports 10.0/9.0, SSIS, SSRS