Application Developer Application <span class="hl">Developer</span> Application Developer - ThoughtWorks Pvt. Ltd Passionate software engineer with 5 years 10 months of experience in Software Development. Work Experience Application Developer ThoughtWorks Pvt. Ltd 2018 to Present Project: GoCD    GoCD is an open-source Continuous Integration and Continuous Delivery system. One of the leading system in CI/CD domain, it supports visualizing end-to-end workflow, plugins to integrate with other systems and extend its capability. I worked in the core development team for GoCD.    Responsibilities:  - Designing and implementing new features and improvements (Backend + Frontend)  - Implementing new plugins  - Managing cloud infrastructure for dogfooding and testing environment  - Working on support cases for L3    Technologies:  - Java, Ruby, ActiveMQ, Docker, MithrilJS, AWS, Gradle, Junit Software Engineer GS Lab Pvt. Ltd - Pune, MAHARASHTRA, IN 2013 to 2018 Project: Identity and Access Management Solution    The vision for this project was to provide complete transparency and control over identity and access management. This application allowed organizations to define their access management rules, policies into the system and automate the process of granting, maintaining and revoking access to resources. Resources could be anything from read permission on a file to permission on a system to manage other accounts.    Responsibilities  1. Core development team:  Designed, Implemented, Tested modules to allow product to interact with different endpoints like DropBox, Salesforce, Active Directory etc.    2. Customer Success team:  Worked towards better customer experience by analyzing and resolving root causes for bugs and failures on production system    Technologies  ? Java, Groovy  ? JUnit, Selenium  ? Wildfly application server  ? Servlet, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, XML  ? ANT Education Bachelor of Engineering in Information Technology college - Nashik, MAHARASHTRA, IN 2010 to 2013 Diploma in Information Technology Government Polytechnic - Nashik, MAHARASHTRA, IN 2007 to 2010 Additional Information SKILLS  ? Proficient in various programming languages:  ? Java  ? Python    ? Web development technologies:  ? ReactJS, MithrilJS, JQuery, JavaScript  ? JSP, Servlet  ? HTML, CSS, XML, JSON    ? Container technologies:  ? Docker    ? Experience in AGILE software development process  ? Domain specific languages:  ? Regular Expressions  ? SQL  ? Scripting:  ? BASH  ? Good grasp on Object Oriented Principles  ? Test Driven Development  ? Cloud technologies:  ? AWS