Systems Engineer Systems Engineer Systems Engineer - GS&F Franklin, TN Driven and career-oriented with a solid foundation in both modern full stack web development, and  systems engineering/administration Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Engineer GS&F - Nashville, TN June 2018 to Present Responsible for consulting with developers and clients to architect appropriate solutions  for their needs; create and maintain Service Level Agreements based on expected outcomes  ? Provision, and maintain system architectures based on needs and requirements  ? Responsible for development and maintenance of all CI/CD pipelines  ? Regular server maintenance including applying security patches, and renewing/creating  new TLS certifications for HTTPS  ? Perform audits of existing architecture to verify stability, security, or compliance Associate Interactive Developer GS&F - Nashville, TN September 2017 to June 2018 Maintain legacy code, and provide updates in a timely manner  ? Build, and maintain apps, and new features with a modern mobile-first approach, using  code, content creation tools, management tools, and digital media to client/team  specifications and for specific deadlines  ? Worked on updating older legacy sites to be mobile-responsive, and IE11 compatible Apprentice Software Developer Nashville Software School - Nashville, TN June 2016 to November 2016 Full-time software bootcamp focusing on modern full-stack development. Utilizing a range  of technologies, and skills, both solo, and in team environments; designed, developed, and created  software solutions with industry best-practices. Education High school or equivalent Skills C#, Docker, Git, Html, Javascript, Webpack, Php, Laravel, IIS, Css, nginx, Cms, Nosql, Ec2, Mysql, Postgres, Sql, Apache, Linux, Ssl, System Administrator, Active Directory, Vmware, DNS, AWS Links http://linkedin.com/in/tkswann2 Certifications/Licenses Driver's License AWS Certified Cloud Practitioner May 2019 to May 2022 Additional Information Skills    ? Servers/DBs: AWS (S3, EC2, RDS, IAM, Lamda, CloudFormation, etc.), Linux  (Nginx/Apache), Windows IIS (2008/2012/2016), TLS/SSL certs, NodeJS, SQL (MySQL, SQL  Server, Postgres), NoSQL (Mongo, Rethink)    ? Languages/Build Tools: HTML/CSS, ES6+ JavaScript, PHP, C#, YAML, BASH, Modern JS  ecosystem (Webpack, Parcel, CSS in JS, PM2, etc.), CI/CD (BitBucket Pipelines, Octopus  Deploy), version control with GIT, Docker/Docker-Compose    ? CMS/Frameworks: WordPress, Umbraco, Ektron, ExpressionEngine, MODX, React/React  Native, AngularJS, Laravel    ? AWS Certified Cloud Practitioner