Software Developer, Lead <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span>, Lead Software Developer Porter Ranch, CA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Developer, Lead California State University - Northridge, CA March 2019 to Present • Implemented 7PointOps Solution software with university software and data for organized event management.  • Mentor junior level developers on software development and improved technical expertise to handle large scale  projects.  • Coordinated with university dean along with higher management to provide software development updates and implementations for operational improvements. Software Specialist iDrive, Inc - Calabasas, CA May 2018 to April 2019 Maintaining quality control and assurance with online backup cloud software using JavaScript with Nodejs  framework for simple UI experience on websites, software, and mobile applications.  • Increased client UI success and efficiency rate by 40% and reduced potential failure factors by 36%.  • Transitioning large enterprises to private servers(BMR) that provided over 10TB of cloud storage and VMware with AES-256 CCM encryption. Software Developer AmeriCorp International Group, Inc - Los Angeles, CA November 2014 to February 2018 • Lead and grow a strong software development team to develop highly efficient and scalable client UI.  • Work on strategic initiatives on develop prototypes, research and development, building developer facing SDKs  and/or development frameworks.  • Successful in designing and deploying company websites using JavaScript for simple user interface experience. Junior Software Developer All Action Security, Inc - Woodland Hills, CA June 2012 to May 2014 Co-developed security software using Java for security officers to manage their patrols every hour in their assigned  locations.  • Implementing software with company hardware to link with supervisor's devices to maintain and track patrol  officers.  • Developing databases using Microsoft SQL to maintain client and security officer infrastructure. Education B.S. in Computer Engineering in Electrical and Computer Engineering California State University - Northridge, CA August 2018 to Present Skills Back end, C++, Front-end, Git, Javascript Additional Information #Skills  Front-End Back End Source Control FrameWorks  Javascript Python SCRUM / Agile React  CSS3 Java Github AngularJS  HTML5 C++ Git Bootstrap