Senior .NET Developer Senior .NET <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior .NET Developer Monmouth Junction, NJ To be part of an energetic software development team that develops innovative solutions for making human life better.    OVERVIEW:    ? 14+ years' experience in the IT industry with updated skills on Framework 4.7  ? 10+ years' experience in programming with the .NET Framework using VB.Net, C#, ASP.NET, XML Web Services, WCF,ADO.NET  ? Experience using Team foundation server and GIT.  ? Experience working in an Agile Scrum environment and good familiarity with the JIRA & Confluence.  ? Experience in using Telerik RadControls and Day pilot control.  ? Developed, Configured and Deployed a variety of .NET Framework Applications including Web, Mobile and Win Forms  ? Expert in .Net technologies such as ASP .Net, VB. Net, C# Windows Forms and XML.  ? Extensive knowledge and hands on experience of Front End Technologies such as HTML, JQuery and JavaScript.  ? Proficient knowledge of Object-Oriented Programming (OOP) concepts and methodologies.  ? In depth knowledge of database concepts and programming practices using SQL Server, Oracle 8i/9i/10g and MS Access.  ? Highly motivated and responsible to work in a team  ? Good understanding of Data warehousing  ? Outstanding analytical and problem solving skills.  ? Strong ability to develop, modify and adapt systems, hardware configurations, and programs to meet individually specified needs.  ? Excellent Leadership, interpersonal and communicational skills.  ? Comprehensive experience in all phases of software development from system study and design through programming, documentation, project management, configuration management, installation and implementation.  ? Good academic record. Work Experience Senior .NET Developer Verizon - Basking Ridge, NJ October 2011 to January 2012 07920    Projects: Tax Decision Database (TDDB) & Tax Central Database (TCDD)  Duration: 3+ months  Environment: .Net framework 4.0, VB.NET, ASP.NET, JQuery, SQL Server 2008, Infragistics Wingrid, Web Services, Team Foundation Server, Visual Source Safe, Cold Fusion  Project Summary: Verizon is broadband and Telecommunications Company. TDDB and TCDD are web applications and are used as a core application to determine tax control and related decision for the company.  Role & Contributions:    • Participated in meetings to understand the requirements and provided them with different the solutions.  • Experience in developing n-tiered client-server applications.  • Experience using 3rd party Infragistics wingrid.  • Business Layer, Data Access Layer, Business Objects, Business Logic Layer Components were developed in VB.NET.  • Experience using SharePoint.  • Experience in developing User controls, Custom controls.  • Designed and implemented user interfaces, screen layouts using ASP.NET Web user controls, Ajax, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, JQuery, CSS, Flash and XML/XSLT.  • Experience using MS Access, SQL Server Reporting Services 2008, SQL Server Integration Services 2008 and SQL-Server 2005/2008 with Stored Procedures, Views, Triggers, Functions, DTS and Crystal report 11.0.  • Created services using Windows Communication Foundation, Web Service for data exchange.  • Experience using Team foundation server.  • Developed major code for Finance like credit card processing and credit refund.  • Experience creating Mock implementations of custom objects and verify the interactions using unit testing  • Monitored and maintained the application in post implementation phase.  • Responsible for the test specifications and preparation of the test cases and reports Senior .NET Developer Jet Set Sports - Bedminster, NJ March 2010 to October 2011 07921    Project 1: Olympic Management Systems (OMS 2.0)  Duration: 8+ years  Environment: .Net framework 4.7, VB.NET, ASP.NET, GIT, JQuery, SQL Server 2017, Telerik Radcontrols, Day Pilot, Web Services, Team Foundation Server, Windows 7, IIS, XML, XSLT, React.js, GIT    Project 2: Jet Set Sports: Employment  Duration: 6+ year  Environment: .Net framework 4.7, VB.NET, ASP.NET, JQuery, SQL Server 2017, Telerik Radcontrols, Web Services, Team Foundation Server, Visual Source Safe, Windows 7, IIS, React.js, Git    Project 3: Olympic Management Systems for Rio Olympic Committee (OMS Rio)  Duration: 1+ year  Environment: .Net framework 4.7, VB.NET, JQuery, ASP.NET, JQuery, SQL Server 2017, Telerik Radcontrols, Day Pilot, Web Services, Team Foundation Server, Windows 7, IIS, XML, XSLT, WCF    Project 4: Client Portal for Rio Olympic Committee  Duration: 1+ year  Environment: .Net framework 4.7, VB.NET, ASP.NET, JQuery, SQL Server 2017, Telerik Radcontrols, Day Pilot, Web Services, Team Foundation Server, Windows 7, IIS, XML, XSLT    Project 5: Jet Set Sports/ CoSport: Guest Registration Portal  Duration: 3+ year  Environment: .Net framework 4.7, VB.NET, ASP.NET, JQuery, SQL Server 2017, Telerik Radcontrols, Day Pilot, Web Services, Team Foundation Server, Windows 7, IIS, XML, XSLT, React.js, Git    Project 6: CoSport.COM  Duration: 1+ year  Environment: .Net framework 4.7, VB.NET, ASP.NET, JQuery, SQL Server 2017, Telerik Radcontrols, Web Services, React.js, Git  Project Summary: Jet Set Sport is a distributor of hospitality packages and tickets to the Olympic Games. Olympic [Event] Management System is a web application designed for JSS/CoSports's all Departments (Administration, Accommodation, Finance, Food Beverage, Tickets, Collaterals, Excursions, Hospitality, Sales, Staffing and Transportation). This subsystem will enable the departments to enter, track and maintain inventory, create budget projections and develop proposals and accounts for customized programs. The OMS 2.0 data is entered via preformatted HTML screens which can be accessed through menus or screen options.  Jet Set Sports' Employment website designed to recruit Event-Period Staff Team to work with Jet Set Sports/CoSport in coming events such as Pyeongchang 2018, and FIFA 2018 etc.  OMS Rio and Client Portal website are designing for RIO Olympic committee and their clients.  CoSport is a distributor of hospitality packages and tickets to the Olympic games. CoSport is a subsidiary of Jet Set Sports, which is one of the leading provider of Olympic hospitality packages.CoSport has the rights to market and sell consumer hospitality and premium ticket packages, individual tickets and hospitality management services in Australia, Austria, Bulgaria, Canada, Norway, Sweden, the United States and other EU/EEA countries    Role & Contributions:  • Technical skills for every aspect of software product development lifecycle.  • Involved in coordinating with different departments to gather the requirements.  • Participated in meetings to understand the requirements and provided them with different the solutions.  • Participated in Transforming business/functional requirements to technical requirements.  • Experience in developing n-tiered client-server applications.  • Experience in developing mobile friendly website.  • Experience in in using JIRA & Confluence.  • Experience using 3rd party Telerik controls and Day Pilot Control.  • Business Layer, Data Access Layer, Business Objects, Business Logic Layer Components were developed in VB.NET.  • Experience using SharePoint.  • Experience in developing User controls, Custom controls.  • Designed and implemented user interfaces, screen layouts using ASP.NET Web user controls, Ajax, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, JQuery, CSS, Flash and XML/XSLT.  • Experience using SQL Server Reporting Services 2008, SQL Server Integration Services 2008 and SQL-Server 2005/2008/2014/2017 with Stored Procedures, Views, Triggers, Functions, DTS , MS Visual Studio Report Server Projects, and Crystal report 11.0.  • Created services using Windows Communication Foundation, Web Service for data exchange.  • Experience using GIT and Team foundation server.  • Developed major code for Finance like credit card processing and credit refund.  • Experience creating Mock implementations of custom objects and verify the interactions using unit testing.  • Monitored and maintained the application in post implementation phase.  • Responsible for the test specifications and preparation of the test cases and reports.  • Reskinned Cosport website and made it mobile friendly. Software Developer Cross Current Cooperation - New Hope, PA January 2008 to October 2008 18938    Project: Sentencing Guideline Software (SGS)  Duration: 10 Months  Environment: .Net framework 3.5, C#, ASP.NET, ADO.Net,ODP.Net, Visual Source Safe, WIN CVS, Windows XP, IIS, Oracle 10g, SQL Server 2005,Web Services, XML, XSLT, JQuery    Project Summary: Cross Current Corporation is a full service firm specializing in custom software development and systems integration. The Sentencing Guideline Software (SGS Web) is a web-based application developed for the Pennsylvania Commission on Sentencing (PCS). SGS-Web provides official sentencing guidelines, calculations and history to the courts of Pennsylvania via the Pennsylvania Justice Network (JNET).    Role & Contributions:  • Responsible for migrating the whole existing Visual Basic and ASP application in to .net framework.  • Developed the interfaces and abstract classes for new application.  • Participated in meetings with business people to define the processes.  • Involved in system tests and create test reports.  • Integration of Data Access and Exception Handling application blocks for database connectivity and error handling.  • Responsible for the test specifications and preparation of the test cases and reports. Software Developer CIT - Morristown, NJ June 2006 to December 2007 07960    Project: CIT's Enterprise customer Service (ECS)  Duration: 14 Months  Environment: VB.NET, ASP.NET, ADO.Net, Visual Source Safe, Windows XP, IIS, SQL Server 2000, Web Services, XML, XSLT    Project Summary: CIT Group is a leading commercial and consumer finance company. As a mortgage lender, it offers mortgage brokers an online Loan Origination System to conduct their business from application entry to closing. ECS (Enterprise Customer Service) project is an Internet application with 5 websites with multilingual capability (supports 6 languages) for four business units and it also has Intranet application to manage websites with impersonate and admin features, these websites provide sectional view to the customer data that's collected from originations system with Private labeling features, these web sites are integrated with Metastorm BPM eWork 6.5 to generate Support request with the help of BizTalk, IBM MQ & MSMQ.    Role & Contributions:  • Was responsible for writing the code for main reports in all business units  • Wrote resource manger classes and handling the multilingual contents of the site  • Developed PDF and EXCEL functionality for all reports  • Participated in meetings with business people to define the processes and developed mockups for ECS projects.  • Developed Intranet site for all business units to manage all websites with impersonate and admin features.  • Wrote XML Web Service and stored procedures.  • Involved in system tests and created test reports  • Integration of Data Access and Exception Handling application blocks for database connectivity and error handling.  • Designed test specifications and prepared test cases and reports.  • Analyzed performance of system and took action to correct deficiencies based on consultation with end users and approval of supervisor.  • Communicated technical information to non-technical personnel and trained them on the system.  • Developed and delivered presentations to end users.  • Responsible for building deployment package. Software Developer Meditech Corp - Livingston, NJ March 2005 to May 2006 Project: EDIM  Duration: 15 Months  Environment: C#, WinForms, Web Services, SQL Server 2000, Visual Source Safe, Infragistics Wingrid, Crystal Reports, XTRaReports, QuickForms.    Project Summary: EDIM is the premier solution for managing time critical activities of an emergency department. The application can communicate with billing or any other department applications.    Role & Contributions:  • Responsible for enhancing the Patient Documentation module using C#  • Wrote the reporting services, which were in Crystal into brand new reports using a new reporting tool called XTRaReports.  • Rewritten the Order Entry Business rules and created a new rules engine for Hospital Codes.  • Written an intelligent web service routine that will periodically updates the allergy and reactions database.  • Wrote a bunch of web service infrastructure class, which can essentially make service requests from the clients. Software Developer Consulting Project for Indus International - Atlanta, GA November 2003 to February 2005 Project: Asset Management  Duration 16 Months  Environment: VB.NET, ASP.NET, WebForms, WinForms, XML, Web Services, SQL Server 2000, MySQL Windows Services, Remoting.    DESCRIPTION: Asset management application helps in inventory, track and valuate the fixed mobile and IT assets. It provides rapid ROI and improved audit control. It allows you to quickly document what your company owns, where it's deployed, and what it's valued at from any web browser. With Asset Manager, you can:    1. Track and report ownership, leases, asset depreciation, and maintenance  2. Map assets to floor plans and owners, and track moves  3. Scan and print barcodes  4. Manage check-in and checkout of shared assets    Role & Contributions:  • Involved in the complete cycle of the project; this includes analysis, design, development and implementation.  • Designing, documenting and unit testing the Web User Interfaces  • Analyzed the failed transactions for better customer support and application enhancement  • Wrote the code for managing various inventory management  • Designed and implemented the custom reports for the Company.  • Wrote report interfaces for the tracking and valuate assets using Crystal Reports.  • Troubleshoot and resolve problems. Software Developer Insurance Corporation - Kottayam, Kerala January 2003 to October 2003 INDIA    Project: Virtual Office and Client Database for Insurance Professionals  Duration 10 Months  Environment: VB .Net, ASP .Net, SQL Server 2000, MS-Access, MYSQL, Windows XP, IIS, Visual Source Safe    DESCRIPTION: This portal provides a forum to communicate with agents and customers, to showcase key content to insurance agents. It offers a facility to set up a virtual office, Client Database with SMS and email facilities, efficient calculators and a personal organizer. The customer can choose and compare various policy options, search for agents, seek insurance related requirements. There are 2 sections in this application: Windows Interface and Web Interface. Windows Interface has developed using VB .Net and MS-Access whereas Web Interface has been developed using ASP .Net and SQL Server. Mail merge program is using My SQL in backend.    Role & Contributions:  • Responsible for Effort estimation, Schedule tracking, Status reporting, Monitoring of team activities and mentoring on the functional enhancements.  • Software analysis, design and development using ASP .Net, C# and HTML.  • Installation and configuration of Microsoft Visual Studio .Net 2003 and setup of Internet Information Server.  • Analysis and requirements gathering of mail merge program.  • Requirements gathering of project and understand the Insurance domain.  • Modified existing constraints, triggers and procedures to make use of new attributes.  • Created tables, views, stored procedures, functions and triggers to fulfill the above requirements and accommodate the business rules in SQL Server 2000.  • Did code review, code-merge, code integration and module integration. Software Developer July 2002 to December 2002 Nest, Techno Park, Kerala, INDIA    Project: Development of an Activex control  Duration 6 Months  Environment: Visual C++, Oracle 7.0, PL/SQL, MS Access, SQL Server 7.0, Windows NT/ 2000    DESCRIPTION: This project was to create an activex control, which can be used to create, update or delete databases such as SQL Server, Oracle or MS Access. This was a very user-friendly control and also is a reusable component.    Role & Contributions:  • Involved in analysis, design and development of user interface forms.  • Designed classes and objects.  • Designed front-end pages and wrote the code to send information to database.  • Wrote all validations wherever required.  • Did all type of testing to see check the functionality Junior Software Developer Southern Railway December 2001 to June 2002 Kerala, INDIA    Project: Railway Reservation System  Duration: 7 Months  Environment: Visual Basic 5.0, Oracle 7.0, Crystal report 5.0 and Windows NT    Description: The railway reservation project was a 6-month assignment, which included all aspects of ticket reservation for the travel by rail.    Role & Contributions:  • Involved in the complete cycle of the project; this includes analysis, design, development and implementation.  • Created database  • Designed front-end pages and wrote code to send the front-end information to database.  • Analyzed performance of system and took action to correct deficiencies  • Designed and developed reports for the project. Junior Software Developer Jubilee Indian Gas Agency June 2001 to November 2001 Kerala, INDIA    Project: Automation of Gas Agency  Duration: 6 Months  Environment: Visual Basic 5.0, Windows 98, MS Access, Crystal Reports5.0    DESCRIPTION: This system handles all the phases Gas Service Industry (LPG) Customer Service, which maintains the customer information i.e. new subscription, transfer subscription, Reservations of extra cylinders. It also accepts the customer request for cylinder, service and allots the cylinder as per the stock available. Reports were generated for day wise waiting and requirements, Bills for dispatching of cylinders to customers. This project divided into different modules i.e. Customer Handling, Stock Maintenance, On-line transaction of delivery and Daily Reports.    Role & Contributions:  • Involved in design and development of user interface forms.  • Designing of front-end pages and writing the code to send the front-end information to database. Writing all the validation wherever it requires. Used Data Access Objects to connect with the back-end to perform all the data manipulations.  • Designed and developed several reports for the project like periodic sales and waiting list of the customers for gas cylinders etc using crystal reports  • Involved in testing. Education Master of Computer Applications in Computer Applications Bharathiyar University June 2002 Bachelor of Computer Applications in Computer Applications Mahatma Gandhi University July 1999