Python Developer Python <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Validate Health • Over7 years of experience as a Developer using Python and Django, FLASK  • Experience with Flask, high-level Python Web frameworks.  • Excellent knowledge of OOPS, Multi-Threading and Collections concepts and in Python.  • Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache.  • Experience object-oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, XML, CSS, HTML and JavaScript.  • Experience with Requests, Numpy, and Pandas python libraries during development lifecycle.  • Experience in developing python scripts for automation and performing functional tests and data validation.  • Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS, Bootstrap and JavaScript.  • Familiar with JSON based RESTWebservices  • Good experience with Amazon Cloud EC2 and Simple Storage Service S3.  • Expertise in working with server-side technologies including databases, Restful API and MVC design patterns.  • Hands on Experience with parallel computing, multithreading, Experience with JSON based REST Web services  • Experienced in developing WebServices with Python programming language.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, and Functions on PostgreSQLand MySQLdatabase.  • Excellent knowledge of OOPS, Multi-Threading and Collections concepts and in Python.  • Strong knowledge of database concepts and both SQL and non-SQL databases.  • Excellent debugging, mathematical, problem solving and optimization skills. Work Experience Python Developer Validate Health - Chicago, IL September 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Added features to an existing automation framework (Python) to parse data from different file format using Panda library and loaded into PostgreSQL database using an in-house library.  • Back end web application architecture design and development in python using Flask framework.  • Used Python for server-side development.  • Worked on automation, setup and administration of build and deployment tools such as Jenkins  • Used GitHub for Python source code version control.  • Used Python unit test to write testcases and integration test for all python codes.  • Deployed the application into AWS- EC2 instances and used AWS - S3 for storage.  • Worked closely with engineering design and product management teams to achieve critical milestones and ensure timely product delivery.  • Wrote Python code to automate Jupyter Notebook to run self-contained scripts on SAS server.  • Worked on Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment.    Environment: Python3, Linux, GIT, Docker, Flask, PostgreSQL, AWS S3, Jupyter Notebook. Python Developer Upwork - Santa Clara, CA December 2017 to March 2018 Responsibilities:  • Used Django framework to design and develop the application.  • Created Business Logic using Python 2.7.  • Used Django framework for application development.  • Created database using MySQL, wrote several queries and Django API's to extract data from database.  • Developed Python scripts using multithreading module.  • Created the Automation scripts using Python for testing applications as well as the integration of these application (API's &UI's) based on REST calls using Python, phrasing the JSON responses.  • Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and SQL.  • Used GitHubfor Python source code version control, Jenkins for automation.  • Worked on Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment.    Environment: Python 2.7,3, Django, MySQL, Jenkins, AWS, Linux, HTML, CSS, JSON, Restful Web Services, JavaScript, Apache, Linux. Software Engineer Veritas Software India Pvt Ltd - Pune, Maharashtra September 2011 to May 2016 Responsibilities:  • Implemented new testing infrastructure for the File System product to enable efficient writing of new test-cases, and automatic resource allocation for parallel execution of tests(Python).  • Enhanced to File Replication product in order to collect additional required metrics for performance monitoring.  • Used FLASK framework for application development.  • Utilized unittest, the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications.  • Deployment and Build of various environments including Linux and UNIX  • Installed and maintained web servers Tomcat and Apache HTTP Web servers in UNIX.  • Involved in Installation and setting up Python /Linux test beds.  • Worked with JSON based REST Web services.  • Worked on automation, setup and administration of build and deployment tools such as Jenkins  • Created database using MySQL, wrote several queries and used FLASKto extract data from database.  • Used GIT for the version control.    Environment: Python 2.7,3, MySQL, Windows, Linux, HTML, CSS, jQuery, JavaScript, Apache, Linux. Education Masters in Information Technology in Information Technology Indian Institute of Technology 2007 Skills DJANGO, DOCKER, Git, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, FLASK, XML, DATABASE, MYSQL, POSTGRESQL, SQLITE, APACHE, LINUX, AJAX, CSS, DHTML, ECLIPSE, jQuery