Senior Software Engineer Senior <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Senior Software Engineer - Techaspect Solutions Pvt Limited * A dynamic, result-oriented and accomplished professional with 8+ years of software experience  * Experienced in creating Rules, Publish Pipeline, Custom Facets, Contextual Ribbons, and Workflows with Sitecore 7.0-8.2.  * Experienced in creating Custom Work Flow Actions, Custom WFFM Actions and Custom Web Api in Sitecore 7.0-8.2.  * Worked on designing templates using SSRS for generating reports in MVC 5.  * Hands on experience on working with POCO Models.  * Experience in developing Web Based Applications using MVC 5, Kendo UI, Web API, JQuery, LINQ, ASP.NET, C#.Net, Windows Based Application, Windows Services, Console applications and Entity Framework.  * Experienced in implementing Lucene, Elastic Search as search providers for sites.  * Experience in working with SSIS packages.  * Experienced in designing database tables, stored procedures using SQL Server.  * Experience in working with .NET Framework 4.6/4.5/4.0/3.5/2.0. Work Experience Senior Software Engineer Techaspect Solutions Pvt Limited June 2017 to Present Texas Instruments is a manufacturer for Analog products, embedded processors and education related devices. This project is about the education module where users are able to get different types of services like booking for webinars, taking training sessions, buying education related devices such as calculators and download software's related to devices.  Responsibilities:    • Participation in Scrum team for estimation, development and demo  • Fixing Search related issues in Solr Search.  • Created custom pipelines for overriding default functionality.  • Created Experience Editor compatible pages.  • Created a Connector component for Marketo and Sitecore.  • Created Custom Contextual Ribbon.    Environment: Sitecore 8.2, Glass Mapper Web Api, Web Api, MVC, C#.Net, Solr Search. Senior Software Engineer Techaspect Solutions Pvt Limited July 2012 to Present Worked as Software Engineer at Vasant Software Solutions Pvt Limited from January 2010 to June 2012. Techaspect Solutions Pvt Limited June 2012 to Present Senior Software Engineer Sitecore Bot, Humana March 2017 to June 2017 Sitecore bot can be used to interact with Sitecore users naturally wherever they are using skype communication channel.  The Sitecore users can easily communicate with Sitecore bot using simple natural language commands to perform Sitecore actions like (Item approvals, notifying form submission data and get the site analytics etc )  It is integrated with LUIS (Language Understanding Intelligent Service), this will enable the Sitecore bot to understand the intent of the user and map that intent to one of the Sitecore actions.  The main goal of this bot is to reduce the effort in training Sitecore and licensing cost, this bot is mainly targeted for Sitecore Content Authors and business users.  No extra effort is required to integrate this bot with other communication channels like Facebook, Slack etc.    Responsibilities:  • Participation in Scrum team for estimation, development and demo  • Integrated Sitecore with Skype.  • Created Custom Web Api in Sitecore for Item creation.  • Queries on Sitecore xDB for reporting site analytics.  • Developed custom WFFM Submit Action.  • Designed Workflow approval process through API.  • Handled authentication requests from Skype to Sitecore.  • Involved in understanding client requirements.    Environment: Sitecore 8.2, Web Api, Microsoft Bot Framework, C#.Net, Skype. Software Engineer Techaspect Solutions Pvt Limited June 2016 to February 2017 LISCR is a corporate registry, which provides registration for ships travelling worldwide. Waypoint is a web application, which automates the registration process for LISCR. This application has two interfaces for internal users of LISCR and for end users.  Internal users will create work orders for registration, name change, audit etc. External users have to upload all the required documents needed for work order to complete. Once the documents are generated and sent to client and payment will be made through this application. There are different types of work orders will be created for each type of client request.  LISCR has a requirement for the implementation of authentication for WayPoint users. These users are domain users and external users. Authentication process should address both users from a single login. For this process, internal users will be using their LISCR email address to login in to Waypoint application and external users will be using any username or email address to login.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in coding using MVC 5, Kendo UI and C#.  • Resolving code issues using Resharper tool.  • Involved in process of creating documents using SSRS.  • Providing security to pdf documents from copying and printing using Aspose Pdf.  • Involved in writing API required for the application.  • Involved in understanding client requirements.  • Involved in designing database.    Environment: MVC 5, C#.Net, Kendo UI, SQL Server 2014, JQuery, Ajax, Web Api, T4 templates, POCO models, SSRS. Software Engineer Techaspect Solutions Pvt Limited January 2014 to June 2016 Anritsu is a Japanese company specializing in the test and measurement equipment market. Products include network call trace, service assurance, customer experience management, microwave, radio frequency (RF), and optical signal generators, spectrum analyzers, and network analyzers and My Anritsu provides all the information and downloads required for users who have bought products from Anritsu and are registered with My Anritsu.    Responsibilities:  • Improved in creating Sitecore Items dynamically for Migration.  • Involved in writing Custom Workflow actions in Sitecore.  • Involved in implementing WFFM forms and writing custom Actions.  • Involved in implementing Web Api for Sitecore.  • Implemented client side validations using JQuery.  • Involved in optimizing code using Resharper tool.  • Involved in creating resource strings in Sitecore.  • Involved in development and understanding the requirements.  • Involved in creating database and tuning of database.  • Involved in Code Reviews.    Environment: Sitecore 7.x - 8.x, Web API, MVC, Sql Server 2012, C#.Net. Developer Techaspect Solutions Pvt Limited June 2013 to January 2014 This project gives solution for providing interface for real-time search of Intermec site. This module will be making use of Elastic Search tool for indexing of Intermec site pages. Elastic Search is a Java based application, which gives result in JSON format. This result will be parsed and shown to user through Asp.Net. This module implements some of the features of GSA like:  1. Searching of pages depending upon keywords  2. Dynamic Navigation  3. Narrow Your Search  4. Search within Results.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in development and understanding the requirements.  • Involved in implementation and Installation of Elastic Search.  • Created Indexes and mapping of data in Elastic Search.  • Involved in implementing of Dynamic Search, Narrow Your Search, Search within Results.  • Involved in creating database for Reporting.  • Optimized search results using LINQ queries.  • Generated report of active subscribers of the Intermec.    Environment: ASP.NET, Elastic Search, JQuery, C#.Net, Ajax, Html5, LINQ, SQL Server, MS-Excel. Developer Techaspect Solutions Pvt Limited July 2012 to May 2013 This project gives the solution for real-time updates of the Intermec Company. These real-time updates are gathered from the API provided by the Intermec. This module consists of the Most Commented, Most Viewed, Popular Tags and Twitter Feeds. Twitter Feeds are directly loaded from the Twitter Api.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in development and understanding the requirements.  • Implemented client side validations using JQuery.  • Used TFS for versioning and project files control.  • Involved in R&D of the Intermec Community API and Twitter API.    Environment: C#.Net, Asp.Net, CSS, JQuery, SQL Server 2008. Vasant Software Solutions Pvt Limited January 2010 to June 2012 Developer Vasant Software Solutions Pvt Limited - IN January 2012 to May 2012 FanSegmenter helps you segment your fans and target them with the right messaging, promotions and offers.  FanSegmenter is delivered via the Software as a Service (SaaS) model and can be used over the Internet. The engagement includes a setup component and a subscription component. The setup component involves a one-time fee based on the number of fans to customize FanSegmenter to the fan page of the business. The subscription fee is based on the number of fans.    Features:  • Fan Consumption Profile  • Fan Retail Patronage  • Fan Purchase Behaviors  • Fan Social Profile  • Fan Psychographic Profile.  • Fan Lifestyle  • Fan Demographics    Responsibilities:  • Involved in designing of the database.  • Creating the Stored Procedures and Indexes for the tables.  • Coding for the application using C#.Net  • Involved in Grabbing from Social Media API.  • Involved in creating the windows services.    Environment: C#.Net, Asp.Net, CSS, JQuery, SQL Server 2005, Facebook API, Windows Services, LINQ. Developer Vasant Software Solutions Pvt Limited - IN March 2011 to December 2011 Flash Preventer helps you track potential troublemakers plotting flash  Mob activities on your property and take proactive preventive action. The activities of these troublemakers will be monitored and reported day by day via Emails to the registered persons. Thus avoiding the flash mobs to take place by pre tracking the activities of users.    Features:  • Monitoring of the user statuses.  • Sending mails of monitored users sentiments and mentions.  • Archiving of users and statuses.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in designing of the database.  • Creating the Stored Procedures and Indexes for the tables.  • Coding for the application using C#.Net  • Involved in Grabbing from Social Media API.    Environment: C#.Net, Asp.Net, CSS, JQuery, SQL Server 2005, Facebook Api, Windows Services, LINQ. Lead management Vasant Software Solutions Pvt Limited - IN January 2010 to July 2011 Role: Developer  Lead management is a social media data analyzer, where the data will be gathered from the major social media sites. Data will be displayed to the users with graphics to understand the development of the product or company.  Features:    • User-friendly environment with Graphical Interpretation.  • Automatic analysis of the data according to user specifications.  • Posting to the social media users (Facebook and Twitter).  • Campaigning of the offers.  • Flagging of users.  • Grouping of the users.  • Workflow concept for the admin.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in designing of the database.  • Creating the Stored Procedures and Indexes for the tables.  • Coding for the application using C#.Net  • Posting to twitter and Facebook using API's.    Environment: C#.Net, Asp.net, Sqlserver2005, Win forms, JavaScript, JQuery, LINQ.    I hereby declare that the above-mentioned information is correct up to my knowledge and I bear the responsibility for the correctness of the above-mentioned particulars.    Place:  Date: V Praveen Kumar. Developer Vasant Software Solutions Pvt Limited - IN September 2010 to March 2011 Auction Scraper is a handy application that can be used to extract data from Godove. Auction Scraper is equipped with getting all information on single screen for easy control and operations. Avoid IP Blocks: Option to set delay between requests to simulate a human surfing in a browser; Option to send requests from multiple proxies if available with client. Provides unique records without duplication  Features:    • Scraping of live data from the site.  • Reporting of history data also.  • Exporting of data to easy understandable format.    Responsibilities:  • Coding in Win forms using C#.NET.  • Design of database in SQL Server 2005.  • Developing all business-logic components responsible for data validation, collection.  • Exporting the data to excel with client requirements and excel design    Environment: C#.Net, SQL server2005, Win forms, Windows services, LINQ. Education Masters of Computer Applications in Computer Applications Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University - Hyderabad, ANDHRA PRADESH, IN Bachelor of Science in Computer Science Osmania University - Hyderabad, ANDHRA PRADESH, IN Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Web Technologies: Asp.net, MVC 5, ADO.Net, LINQ, Web API  Languages: C, C++, C#.Net.  Scripting Languages: JavaScript, Ajax and JQuery.  IDE: Visual Studio 2010/2012/2013/2015  Database: SQL Server 2005, 2008, 2012, 2014  Reporting: MS-Excel, Crystal Reports, SSRS  CMS: Sitecore