Senior AEM Developer Senior AEM <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior AEM Developer at Realogy Holdings Corp.(Looking for New opportunities) Madison, NJ, NJ ? Experienced professional in IT industry with strong experience in Web content management (WCM) & J2EE development technologies with solid experience of Object Oriented Programming (OOP) as well as Test-Driven Development (TDD) in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC)  ? Overall 8.3 years of IT experience and over 4.5 years of hands on AEM experience in development of content management solutions using Adobe AEM Content Management System.  ? Complete knowledge and Hands of Experience on Digital Transformations projects especially using Adobe Marketing cloud products. Working on Adobe AEM centric projects  ? Excellent work experience in AEM 6.4, AEM 6.3, AEM 6.2, AEM 6.1.  ? Experience in developing Templates, Custom Components, creating and launching Workflows.  ? Customizing out of the box Widgets.  ? Experience in designing and building end to end build process for AEM centric projects.  ? Experience in Workflow development and integrating CQ with other applications.  ? Experience in developing Web Applications which have integrated a number of functional capabilities like Web Content Management (WCM), Digital Asset Management (DAM), Identity & Access Management, Social Media, Search, SEO etc.  ? Strong experience with setting up AEM using Maven and standard Eclipse tools.  ? Knowledge on using MVC and version control tools like SVN and GitHub.  ? Experienced in using CRXDE and Eclipse IDEs to develop CMS applications.  ? Experience in Integration of the System modules, Writing Test Cases, Bug Fixing and Enhancements, very conversant with Quality Management and System Support.  ? Solid experience with Responsive Web Design (RWD) using Bootstrap.  ? Rich experience in Web Services such as SOAP and Restful.  ? Proficient in configuration, implementation and integration of Enterprise Multi-tier Web Application with J2EE Frameworks, such as Spring, Hibernate, Struts.  ? Rich experienced in writing SQL queries with RDBMS skills in MySQL, SQL Server and Oracle, etc.  ? Hands-on experience using development IDEs including Eclipse, NetBeans and used MAVEN as build tool. Efficient in using Junit for unit testing.  ? Expertise in building client side Middle Tier Development environment using JSP, Servlet, JavaMail, etc.  ? Expertise in HTML5, CSS3, XHTML, and XML based web internet applications using JQuery, AJAX, JavaScript, Angular JS, and Content Management Systems with emphasis on W3C and usability standards.  ? Experience in version control software such as Git, SVN and in tracking tool as JIRA.  ? Well versed in designing presentation layer components using Servlets, JSP, HTML, and JavaScript.  ? Ability to build tables, stored procedures, indexes, create jobs in SQL Server, use SQL Server Management Studio and tools such as query analyzer, activity monitor, and query profiler.  ? Skilled at developing enterprise applications in different Java IDE's like Eclipse, Net beans.  ? Experience using Rational Rose and Knowledge of application servers like Apache Tomcat 6.0/7.0, Glassfish etc.  ? Good experience with Operating Systems like Windows NT/9x/2000/Me/XP/Vista and partially on UNIX.  ? Excellent Communication and Inter-personal skills, flexible and versatile to new environments, self-motivated a good team player and have worked in multicultural environment.  ? Proven problem solving, analysis and leadership skills. Capable of performing under minimal supervision as well. Work Experience Senior AEM Developer Realogy - Madison, NJ November 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Worked on Touch UI Components in AEM 6.4 environments.  ? Adobe Marketing Cloud AEM 6.4, DTM, Adobe Target.  ? MSM integration with World server.  ? Designs, develops and supports application solutions for Adobe products on various customer platforms.  ? AEM integration with Adobe Site catalyst for importing site impressions data into AEM.  ? SSO integration with AEM using SAML.  ? Implemented shared content concepts in AEM 6.4 using editable templates.  ? Responsible for creating, edit, manage and optimize websites across different digital channels such as web, mobile, social media channels.  ? Built backend OSGi services using OSGi R6 Annotations.  ? Developed new features with Touch UI components using HTL.  ? Worked on Editable templates, Content Fragments, Experience Fragments, Policies involving Responsive Grids.  ? Worked on Workflow management by creating workflow models, workflow launchers with custom process steps.  ? Worked on dispatcher configurations in Apache webserver.  ? Performed heap dump and thread dump analysis to troubleshoot performance issues on the site.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Adobe AEM 6.4, AEM 6.2 (WCM), DAM, CQ Tagging, Apache Maven, Apache HTTP Server, SOAP and REST Web Services, Apache Sling, CRXDE, WCM, HTML, JSP, Servlets, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, Coral UI 3, Tomcat 6. Senior AEM Developer Stewart Title - Houston, TX September 2016 to October 2018 Responsibilities:  ? Installed and configured AEM 6.2and AEM 6.3Web Content Management System  ? Migrated project from AEM 6.2 to AEM 6.3 version.  ? Designed and developed, AEM building blocks including templates, components, dialogs, widgets, workflows.  ? Created Touch UI components and also created few dialogs using version 6.3  ? Implemented Component renditions using slightly framework.  ? Developed WCM Use Classes and Sling Models to meets the requirement.  ? Develop Custom Adobe CQ/AEM Workflows, OSGi Services and other Dynamic/Static web content management components.  ? Developed custom components in Touch UI and customized forms for internet and intranet sites of the company.  ? Built various web pages using HTML, CSS, Java Script and JQuery.  ? Worked on stories related to Adobe CQ/AEM in sprints which includes feature development and production issues (Agile Scrum methodology)  ? Worked with Personalization teams to develop Adobe Target strategy  ? Developed GUI using HTML5 and Java Script.  ? Verify/Validate testing to ensure that the team generates high quality output.  ? Implemented Custom widget to support multi composite fields.  ? Implemented complex workflows like multilevel approver workflows, Custom process steps etc.  ? Proficient in Adobe CQ foundational concepts, including the CRX repository, the AEM platform, the use of core frameworks such as Apache Sling and Apache Felix.  ? Developed applications that uses JCR content repository in AEM to store information and query the JCR for display and reporting purposes and developed reusable components of AEM.  ? Designed a solution to integrate angular single page apps into AEM  ? Define implementation processes, quality gates and standards.  ? Setup and configure Authoring and Publishing environments, replication agents, AEM dispatcher to cache the landing pages html and serve as the static pages from Apache  ? Used Bootstrap CSS framework that helps in designing web applications  ? Effectively communicate design to customers and present design options/considerations. Adopt and utilize iterative/Agile methodology as needed or requested    Environments: AEM 6.3, AEM 6.2, HTML5, Java Script, Bootstrap, CSS, Adobe WCM, CRX/CRXDE, Jquery, HTML AEM Developer Panera Bread - Sunset Hills, MO January 2015 to August 2016 Responsibilities:  ? Develop, implement and configure web content management solutions using AEM and technologies such as Java, HTML/DHTML, XML, JavaScript, and web services  ? Designed and developed, AEM building blocks including templates, reusable components, dialogs, widgets, workflows in AEM 6.1.  ? Create and maintain customer-facing Adobe AEM content management systems.  ? Perform AEM customization on foundation components and workflows to extend functionalities, improve performance or fix issues on project level.  ? Offer solutions on top of the Adobe WCM, CRX/CRXDE, CQ WCM, and DAM.  ? Lead all AEM related design and framework development using templates, components widgets, AEM bundle, JCR/Sling API, clustering publish and author setup  ? LDAP Integration with AEM for user authentication  ? Worked on integrating AEM with AngularJS.  ? Worked on updating Function Specifications and working according to Design document.  ? Used Apache Maven for build automation  ? Been a part in developing responsiveness of the site.  ? Enhanced AEM personalization engine to surface the AEM content on portal using JavaScript and Sling script based on segment and LDAP user profile attributes  ? Have an understanding about the cross browser issues.  ? Designed and developed Content Structure including folder structure.  ? Used JIRA to create story and bugs and to track team progress, time on each task.  ? Designed and developed folder structure.  ? Analyzed and resolved technical issues relating to content management.  ? Also involved in two initial demos and coordinating with off-shore team.    Environment: Adobe AEM 6.1, DAM, CQ Tagging, Workflow, Java, J2EE, Apache Maven, Apache HTTP Server, SOAP and REST Web Services, LDAP, Servlets, log4j, HTML, JSP. Java/J2EE Developer Global Star - Milpitas, CA January 2012 to December 2014 Responsibilities:  ? Closely worked with business system analyst to understand the requirements to ensure that right set of UI modules been built.  ? Developed all the UI pages using HTML, XUL, DHTML, XSL/XSLT, XHTML, DOM, CSS, JSON, JavaScript, JQuery and Ajax.  ? Created XHTML Pages with CSS and the Box Model.  ? Using advanced level of JQUERY, AJAX, JavaScript, CSS and pure CSS layouts.  ? Used JQuery core library functions for the logical implementation part at client side for all the applications.  ? Responsible for designing page layout using HTML5, CSS3 along with JQuery and adding dynamic functionality to each module  ? Development of the interactive UI's for the front end users using the front end technologies like HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  ? Creating cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant CSS-based page layouts.  ? Involved in fixing Front-End issues with the layouts.  ? Used JQuery plug-ins for Drag-and-Drop, Widgets, Menus, User Interface and Forms.  ? Involved in developing HTML and JavaScript for client side presentation and, data validation on the client side with in the forms.  ? Developed Date Time Picker using Object Oriented JavaScript extensively.  ? Debug the application using Firebug to traverse the documents and manipulated the Nodes using DOM and DOM Functions.  ? Re factored, re-architected, and enhanced an existing AngularJS application to follow strict MVVM/MVC patterns for improved source code maintenance.  ? Involved in developing XUL, HTML, and JavaScript for client side presentation and, data validation on the client side with in the forms.  ? Involved in writing application level code to perform client side validation using JQUERY and JavaScript.  ? Developed SQL Queries to interact with Oracle database.  ? Maintain, enhance, and recommend solutions that best suit business and technology needs from UI standpoint.  ? Successfully executed all the test cases and fixed any bugs/issues identified during the test cycles.    Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Dreamweaver, AJAX, JSON, MS Office, PL/SQL and SVN. Software Developer Bharat Heavy Electrical Limited - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2011 to December 2011 Responsibilities:  ? Designed and developed presentation layer using JSP, Custom Tags and HTML, CSS and involved in client requirements and modified designing document.  ? Used Java Script for the client side validations and to provide the event driven programming with HTML files and developed the user interface using JSP and Java Script to view all online trading transactions.  ? Developed both Session and Entity beans representing different types of business logic abstractions.  ? Coded Java Server Pages for the Dynamic front end content that use Servlets and EJBs and designed modules using JDBC for database connectivity.  ? Coded HTML pages using CSS for static content generation with JavaScript for validations.  ? Created the stored procedures using Oracle database and accessed through Java JDBC.  ? Developed action Servlets and JSPs for presentation in Struts MVC framework.  ? Used JSP and JSTL Tag Libraries for developing User Interface components and developed business entity and session beans.  ? Responsible for Creating/Configuring monitoring tools and automates proactive monitoring tasks.  ? Developed several POJO classes to map the data into Java Object.  ? Worked with the testing team to identify, categorize and fix bugs and involved in the maintenance and support of the application.  ? Involved in Database Performance Tuning by checking and creating indexes, avoiding inefficient queries, avoiding too many open connections and avoiding inline queries wherever possible.  ? Developed PL/SQL View function in Oracle database for get available date module.  ? Deployed the application on the JBoss Application Server.  ? Developed test cases and performed unit, integration and performed unit testing using JUnit.    Environment: JSP 2.2, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Servlets 3.0, EJB, JDBC 3.0, JSTL, Eclipse, JBoss, Struts 2.0, MVC, Oracle 11g, JUnit. Education Bachelor's Skills HTML (8 years), JAVA (8 years), JAVASCRIPT (6 years), jQuery (5 years), CSS (5 years) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/vishnu-vardhan-b29735167 Additional Information Technical Skills:    Content Management AEM 6.4, 6.3, 6.2, 6.1, DAM, CQ Tagging.  Web Technologies XML, HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, JSON, Angular JS, Linux Shell Script, JQuery, Apache Sling, JCR 2.0  Languages JAVA/J2EE JavaScript, SQL  Programming HTML 4.0, CSS, JavaScript, Ajax, UNIX Shell Scripting.  MVC framework Spring MVC, Groovy and Grails  Application Servers JBoss, Tomcat, Apache web-server  Databases & Tools Oracle 8i, 9i, 10g, SQL Server 2000, 2005 & 2008;  Tools RAD, Eclipse, Rational Rose, NetBeans, Toad, Sql developer  Version Control Tools Subversion, Git, CVS, IBM Rational Clear Case  Environment UNIX, IBM AIX 4.3, Sun Solaris 2.7/2.6, MS-DOS 6.22, Windows 95/98/NT/2000/XP.    LinkedIn: https://www.linkedin.com/in/vishnu-vardhan-b29735167/