Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer - Citi Group • Over 6+ years of experience in Systems Analysis, Design, Development and Implementation of various applications including Web and Client/Server Application development using Microsoft Visual Studio2015.  • Experience in using Design Patterns like Singleton, Factory, Facade, MVC, Repository patterns.  • Strong hands on the Microsoft.Net Framework 4.5/4.0/3.5/3.0 developing Web Forms, Web Services, Web Pages using ASP.Net 4.5/4.0/3.5/3.0, C#, MVC 5/4/3, ADO.Net, JavaScript, CSS3, HTML5, DHTML, XML, XSLT, Entity Framework, LINQ, AJAX and SSRS.  • Experience with an Agile software development methodology and Test-Driven Development including SCRUM Framework).  • Experience in data object models like LINQ and Entity Framework to retrieve and modify data and developing entity data framework services.  • Experience in working with AngularJS framework for building Single Page Application (SPA).  • Experience in using Windows Communication Foundation (WCF) in a self-hosting mechanism, implementing the Service-Oriented Architecture (SOA) using the REST methodology, SOAP messages between metadata endpoints, extensively worked on WCF RIA Services.  • Expertise in building Web Services using WSDL, UDDI and SOAP Protocol and consuming/publishing Web Services.  • Extensively used LINQ to Entities, LINQ to SQL, and LINQ to XML for retrieving the data efficiently.  • Experience with ASP.Net Web Forms, Web Services, and State Management, caching features, configuring optimizations and securing the web application.  • Designed and implemented application using ADO.Net objects like Dataset, Data Table and Data Adapter for manipulating, retrieving, storing and displaying data from SQL Server.  • Extensive knowledge of applying Object Oriented Programming Principles and Design patterns, Object oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD) for modeling a system.  • Experience in SSRS and SSIS (Integration Service) package design, constructing, and deployment.  • RDBMS Experience with Stored Procedures, Functions, Views and Triggers and imports and exports of Data in SQL Server (2012/2008R2/2008/2005) and Oracle 11g.  • Experience in using Configuration Management, setting up company Version policies, build schedule using Team Foundation Server and Visual Source Safe (VSS).  • Involved in unit-testing web applications in Test Driven Development (TDD).  • Implemented Unit Testing, Integration Testing and System Testing with NUnit.  • Strong hands on programming, design, understanding and deep functional experience in creating, deploying and consuming of XML Web Services, WCF services, REST Services and Web API. Work Experience Software Developer Citi Group - Irving, TX July 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Worked on Agile Methodology (Scrum Framework) to meet timelines with quality deliverables.  ? Involved in gathering and preparing the requirements from clients for product design and enhancements.  ? Participated in daily scrums and weekly meetings with the project team to meet expectations and deadlines.  ? Developed solutions for diverse programming scenarios in C#, employing Object Oriented Programming (OOP) concepts such as: encapsulation, inheritance, polymorphism, and abstraction.  ? Designed, implemented and configured WCF service layer.  ? Worked with XML, XSD and XSLT while implementing WCF.  ? Utilized ADO.Net technology extensively for data retrieving, querying, storage and manipulation using LINQ.  ? Designed the web UI using, ASP.NET, HTML, DHTML, XSL/XSLT, JavaScript, CSS, Web Forms and AJAX controls.  ? Created User Controls, Custom controls, Data Access Layer, Business Logic Layer classes using C# and .Net 4.0 for web pages.  ? Extensively used User interface controls which use jQuery and JavaScript to validate client-side validation.  ? Enabled Client-side Data Validation in .NET using the validation controls like Regular Expression validator, Required Field validation, etc.  ? Written Stored Procedures in SQL Server 2008 used ADO.NET and Grid View, Data List, Details view, Repeaters, Dataset Classes for data manipulation.  ? Created and maintained database objects like complex Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Tables, Views and SQL Joins.  ? Worked Extensively with Query Optimization Techniques to Fetch Data with better Performance Tuning.  ? Developed Reports used with SQL Server Reporting Services.  ? Designed, coded, tested applications identified system deficiencies and recommended solutions.    Environment: C#.NET, Visual Studio 2012/2015, ASP.NET, ODP.NET, Entity Framework, IIS 7, TFS, SSIS WCF, Oracle SQL Developer, CSS, XML, and JSON. .Net Developer Cuna Mutual, Maddison WI December 2016 to June 2018 Responsibilities:  ? Developed ADO.NET Entity Framework to use relational data with a data service by defining a data model that maps to relational data. Used jQuery for web interface development with good looking web application. Worked with Master Pages & User Controls.  ? Created stored procedures for updating and retrieving data from SQL server.  ? Utilized JavaScript/jQuery, ASP.Net validations with AJAX control tool kit to create Client-side validations.  ? Created web pages, developed master page and classes for reuse by implementing GUI using HTML, XML, Ajax control library, CSS and Web Form Controls.  ? Involved in object-oriented analysis, design and implementation by evolving web services.  ? Used forms authentication in the asp.net web pages for authentication users against their credentials.  ? Implemented a data access layer architecture using LINQ to perform queries and call stored procedures.  ? Used MVC design pattern in the development of the web application.  ? Created MVC razor views to design HTML based multiple pages of the Application.  ? Involved in the unit testing of all modules and closely interacted with the QA team.  ? Responsible to fix bugs, for maintaining application and production support.  ? Involved in NUnit testing, integration testing and deployment of the application.  ? Developed web forms using ASP.NET and C#.NET.  ? Used WCF JSON and WCF rest service in developing and deploying on windows in line with the service-oriented architecture (SOA).  ? Created user controls to develop some of the modular driven aspects of the web site.  ? Employed JavaScript (jQuery) to enhance the UI experience on the client side.  ? Used jQuery for web interface development with good looking web application.    Environment: .Net framework 4.5, C#, Visual Studio 2013, ASP.Net, MVC5, WCF, SOAP, SQL Server 2012, LINQ, JavaScript, TFS, Entity Framework 5.0, XML, SSIS, SSRS, AngularJS, CSS3, HTML5, JQuery, AJAX, NUnit, IIS 8.0, Windows .Net Developer GEICO - Chevy Chase Village, MD May 2015 to December 2016 Responsibilities:  • Developed ADO.NET Entity Framework to use relational data with a data service by defining a data model that maps to relational data. Used JQuery for web interface development with good looking web application. Worked with Master Pages & User Controls.  • Created stored procedures for updating and retrieving data from SQL server.  • Utilized JavaScript/JQuery, ASP.Net validations with AJAX control tool kit to create Client-side validations.  • Created web pages, developed master page and classes for reuse by implementing GUI using HTML, XML, Ajax control library, CSS and Web Form Controls.  • Involved in object-oriented analysis, design and implementation by evolving web services.  • Used forms authentication in the asp.net web pages for authentication users against their credentials.  • Implemented a data access layer architecture using LINQ to perform queries and call stored procedures.  • Used MVC design pattern in the development of the web application.  • Created MVC razor views to design HTML based multiple pages of the Application.  • Involved in the unit testing of all modules and closely interacted with the QA team.  • Responsible to fix bugs, for maintaining application and production support.  • Involved in NUnit testing, integration testing and deployment of the application.  • Developed web forms using ASP.NET and C#.NET.  • Used WCF JSON and WCF rest service in developing and deploying on windows in line with the service-oriented architecture (SOA).  • Created user controls to develop some of the modular driven aspects of the web site.  • Employed JavaScript (JQuery) to enhance the UI experience on the client side.  • Used JQuery for web interface development with good looking web application.    Environment: C#.NET, Visual Studio 2012, ASP.NET, ADO.NET, Entity Framework, LINQ, WCF, SQL Server 2012, JavaScript/JQuery, MVC, CSS and XML Dot Net Developer Caterpillar - Peoria, IL August 2014 to January 2015 Responsibilities:  • Gathered & Analyzed requirements from marketing team  • Prepared requirement specification documents  • Designed and implemented GUI components for Setup and analysis modules Developed Context Menus in C#  • Involved in the design and implementation of database for various modules in SQL2005  • Data retrieval using ADO.NET dataset, data table and data adapter and Data Reader.  • Design and Development of Web Forms Using C# and ASP.NET.  • Created the Database and written stored procedures.  • Developed reusable and optimized .NET controls using C#.  • Worked on development of XML Web services using SOAP as the message format.  • Developed Custom User Controls to reduce the complexity in User Interface Coding and provide better look and feel.  • Designed, implemented and integrated various dynamically generated reports using C#.NET Wrote Stored Procedures and SQL queries.  • Extensively used VS2005 in line documentation to generate Compiled HTML files (.chm)  • Unit tested with VS Team test and achieved 70% of code coverage    Environment: C#, .NET 2.0, Asp.net, Webforms, ADO.NET, SQL server 2005, XML, T-SQL, Webservices, TFS Jr. Dot Net Developer Nepal Tele-communication - Kathmandu, NP January 2013 to December 2013 Responsibilities:  • Developed the project in Microsoft Visual Studio 2003 using C#, ASP.NET, ADO.NET, SQL Server 2005 and Crystal reports.  • Analyze the specifications provided by the client, documented the requirements. Assisted in database design in SQL server.  • Involved in data model changes made on database to meet the requirements. Created SQL Stored Procedures.  • Used ADO.NET objects, Dataset, DataTable and DataAdapter for manipulating,  • Retrieving, storing and displaying data from SQL Server 2000 Data Source.  • Responsible for debugging, tracing and deployment  • Created the business logic in Stored Procedures using SQL Server 2005.  • Implemented all Validation Controls.  • Designed all database tables in the initial stage of project.  • Responsible to meet the client's requirement upon the committed date.    Environment: ASP.NET, ADO.NET, C#, SQL SERVER 2005, Visual Studio 2003, Windows 2000 Server and IIS Additional Information Programming Languages: C#, VB.NET 2010, ASP.NET 2010  Scripting Languages: JavaScript v1.8.5, PHP 4, Python  Markup and Stylesheet Languages: HTML 5, CSS 4, Angular JS  Frameworks: .NET, Bootstrap  Database: SQL server 2008, MySQL 5.1, MS-Access 2016  API Tools: Swagger UI, Soap UI by Smartbear  Project Management Tools: Basecamp  Content Management Tools: Drupal 7  Analytical/Reporting Tools: Google Analytics, Authorize.net  Applications:  Adobe Dreamweaver CS6, SPLUNK, Kibana, Adobe Photoshop CS6, Real-Time Session Manager (RSM), Wireshark, Wamp Server, Acquia dev desktop, Wolfram Mathematica.