Sr. PHP Developer Sr. PHP <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. PHP Developer - McKesson Columbus, OH • 9+ years of experience in designing and developing enterprise level web application using PHP, CSS, HTML, DHTML, XHTML, JavaScript, XML, DOM, and AJAX Technology.  • Expert PHP Development utilizing Zend, magento, CakePHP, Laravel, CodeIgniter and Symphony frameworks.  • Experienced in Object Oriented Programming (OOP) in PHP versed in PHP in order to write robust and re-usable code.  • Experienced in Drupal themes, modules and familiarity with the Drupal API and hook system.  • Excellent Experience in building Android Apps, PHP Apps using MVC Architecture.  • Proficiency in Prototype, Module Design, User Interface Design, and Integration of PHP component.  • Experience in setting up PHP-Web Based Server.  • Extensive knowledge of WordPress, Magento and Drupal theme integration plug in manipulation.  • Expert in developing front-end systems with JavaScript, Bootstrap, HTML5, CSS3, MVC frameworks such as Angular JS and Node JS as a platform for Web applications.  • Worked on Zend module development and customization.  • Ability to develop unique, cutting-edge applications and troubleshoot issues for different handset and user requirements in Android.  • Expertise in advanced JavaScript libraries and frameworks such as Angular JS, Node JS and Object Oriented Programming in JS.  • Used Angular JS MVC Framework in the development of the web application to bind the data/model that was retrieved from a database through services provided in a controller to the view using scope.  • Experience in developing UI applications using HTML, HTML5, JQuery, and AJAX, AngularJS.  • Documented High Level Design and Detail Level Design based on Business requirements.  • Maintained version control Software including test to production promotion model.  • Experience with database SQL development and excellent knowledge working with relational database systems such as MySQL 5, Microsoft SQL Server, Oracle, MariaDB and DB2.  • Working experience with setup & use of version control systems (SVN, GIT, CVS)  • Experience in using various tools and IDEs for development and design like Visual Studio.  • Designed and implemented interface elements using Google Web Toolkit.  • Analyzed and resolved production system problems tracked with Rational ClearQuest and JIRA. Work Experience Sr. PHP Developer McKesson - San Francisco, CA May 2017 to Present Responsibilities  • Developed PHP back end for both CMS based sites and non-CMS based sites.  • Dynamic web site design and developing using PHP, MySQL, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Jquery, AJAX.  • Built executive dashboard using PHP and MySQL that displays near-real time sales and production data to executive team.  • Custom CMS/CRM, Admin dashboards, report generation, development using the LaravelFramework  • Installed and updated existing payment processor packages with Composer on LAMP server via SSH.  • Designed and Developed navien using CodeIgniter and stackmicros using Slim, PHP-DI and Doctrine.  • Proficient in developing applications using PHP MVC design patterns and frameworks like Sonic, Code Ignitor, Zend and People Aggregator.  • Created React components, using Redux for unidirectional data flow.  • Implemented Redux for multi-source state resolution to manage user code input, attribute control input and data input.  • Experienced in implementing OOO JavaScript MVC, CSS3, HTML5 applications using libraries - DOJO, Ext JS, Ember JS, JQuery and Bootstrap etc.  • Implemented Single Page Application (SPA) Pattern and used Angular JS MVC to build a cross-browser application.  • Developed automation test cases using Java and Junit on Eclipse application.  • Using PostgresSQL tool for querying the Database.  • Worked on MongoDB database concepts such as locking, transactions, indexes, Sharding, replication, schema design.  • Developed API Gateway and Restful Webservices using Node.js, MongoDB, Express JS.  • Expert in writing test cases in PHPStorm and JavaScript using the latest frameworks like Codeception, PHPUnit and jasmine.  • Configuring web server for all pages (NGINX).  • Used GITLAB Version control tools to manage source repository.  • Expert in writing test cases in PHP and JavaScript using the latest frameworks like Codeception, PHPUnit and jasmine.  • Wrote JUnits, Spock/geb, Selenium test scripts for unit & integration testing.  • Responsible for configuring Continuous Integration Server i.e. Jenkins and SonarQube.  • Used Chrome Developer Tools to inspect and diagnose HTML, CSS and JavaScript bugs quickly and efficiently.  • Followed Agile development software methodologies and SCRUM.  • Implemented Upload Gallery System using Amazon AWSS3 service to maintain large amount of automotive dealer's inventory images and files.  • Implemented a Continuous Delivery pipeline with Docker, Jenkins and GitHub  • Used Docker container system with kubernetes integration.  • Used Apache Shiro security implementation, for authentication and authorization, for all the request received by XML and Rest Gateway controllers.  • Coding and Documenting the application from Low level Design to integration with web service using html, JSP, JQuery.EXTJS, JSON  • Performed CSV import to migrate remedy issues to Jira.  • Used AWS cloud services to launch Linux and windows machines, created security groups and written basic PowerShell scripts to take backups and mount network shared drives.  • OS deployments with Microsoft Deployment Tool and Deploy Studio for Macs.  • Implemented an RPC proxy server to external Slack and email APIs.  Environment: PHP, Laravel, Composer, Slim, Code Ignitor, React, Redux, HTML5, CSS, Ajax, Bootstrap, Angular, Java, PostGres, SQL, PostgresSQL, MongoDB, Webservices , Rest, NodeJS, ExpressJS, PHPStrorm, Eclipse, Nginx, GitLab, Phpunit, Selenium, SonarCube, Chrome Developer Tools, Scrum, Agile, AWS, Jenkins, Docker, Kubernetes, TeamCity, XML, JSON, Jira, Linux, Mac, Slack. Sr. PHP Developer Alcoa - Pittsburgh, PA October 2015 to April 2017 Responsibilities    • Designed and developed Web pages using PHP, MySQL, HTML, CSS, JavaScript.  • Create custom PHP Helper, Models, Controller, and Component Classes.  • Retrieve MySQL data via CakePHP custom queries.  • Support/Maintenance of existing PHP and Laravel projects.  • Performed various admin tasks using Drush & Composer Commands.  • Worked with Symfony, Zend design patterns like singleton pattern, registry pattern and model -view-controller pattern in Zend framework  • Desiged and developed user interface over existing back-end Yii stack using innovative UI/  • UX principles.  • Created custom ecommerce modules or other new functionality using object-oriented PHP and Magento APIs.  • Implemented various screens for the front end using React.js and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager) and redux library.  • Created React components, using Redux for unidirectional data flow.  • Developing Webpages by using HTML5, CSS3, JQuery, JavaScript and working knowledge of Node JS, bootstrap.js, and Angular.js.  • Made extensive use of Java Naming and Directory Interface (JNDI) for looking up enterprise beans.  • Wrote stored procedures in Oracle PL/SQL for data entry and retrieval.  • Experience in managing MongoDB environment from availability, performance and scalability perspectives.  • Experience in working with the HBase as a NoSQL DB in the MapReduce framework.  • Designed and Developed REST WebServices to interact with various business sectors and used SOAP protocol for webservices communication  • Developed web applications and RESTful web services and APIs using Python Flask, Django, Pyramid and PHPStorm.  • Installed and configured WebSphere Application Server, WebSphere Portal Server on Unix/Linux Servers, created Portal Clusters using horizontal & vertical clustering.  • Unit tested the code with RSpec and Jasmine tests, and managed the code with Github.  • Used GIT for version control. Wrote Automated Unit Tests for new and existing features with PHPUnit.  • Experience in automating test cases using Selenium Web Driver and TestNG.  • Set up CI/CD pipelines for Microservices and integrated tools such as Maven, Bitbucket, SonarQube  • Used Chrome Developer Tools for debugging.  • Followed daily Scrum meetings.  • Managed projects with agile methodologies in JIRA via user stories and customer issues.  • Implemented the process on launch instance, attach volume, create security keys and groups in JAVA on AWS EC2.  • Used GIT and JENKINS for continuous integration and deployment.  • Deploying the code in Jenkins server and Setting up Docker Containers with Docker Swarm for continuous integration and build.  • Worked in XML style sheets for converting the Accord XMLs to valid data objects.  • Developed AJAX featured UI components using JQUERY that targets Spring MVC based server controllers, which returns HTTP response with JSON data or xml.  • Using AGILE development techniques in all the development process and exposed to tool like Rally to track the agile development.  • Worked on JIRA development with JAVA and Hipchat.  Environment: PHP, Laravel, Composer, Symfony, YII, Magento, React, Redux, HTML5, CSS, Ajax, Bootstrap, Angular, PL/SQL, Oracle, sql server, MongoDB, NOSQL, Webservices, Rest, NodeJS, PHPStrorm, Websphere, Github, Phpunit, Selenium, Sonarqube, Chrome Developer Tools, Scrum, Agile, AWS, Jenkins, Docker, Kubernetes, JSON, XML, Rally, Linux, hipchat. Sr. PHP Developer Fidelity National Finance - Atlanta, GA December 2013 to September 2015 Responsibilities    • Integrate retrieved data with HTML templates utilizing PHP.  • Create, delete and merge Git brances and feature branches with Git flow.  • Validate forms using JQuery, Ajax, and PHP.  • Worked on SOAP Web Services created using ZendREST Client in old visalabs site.  • Magento development, theme customization, responsive theme, extensions installation & Custom extension.  • Used MySQL as a database on this project and Joomla as a CMS (Content Management System).  • Convert design mock up to a functional, interactive prototype using Google Polymer, HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript.  • Used Bootstraps JS along with AngularJS in creating the Single Page Applications (SPA).  • Used Java and JSP for J2EE web application on WAS, DB2 and AIX.  • Used microservices architecture with Spring based services to integrate user libraries in the application.  • Responsible for developing the application level flow by utilizing Java, JSP and Struts.  • Wrote some complex PL/SQL queries using Joins, Stored Procedures, Functions.  • Written SQL queries and used DB2 stored procedure, functions, triggers, cursors, objects, sequences.  • Creation of REST WebServices for the management of data using Apache CXF (JAX-RS).  • Involved in debugging the product using Eclipse and JIRA Bug Tracking.  • Developed PHP code and static HTML pages using the ZEND STUDIO and Adobe Dreamweaver.  • Migrated datasource passwords to encrypted passwords using Vault tool in all the JBoss application servers.  • Integrated Build Process through Jenkins to various SCM tools like GitHub, SVN.  • Setup testing environment for Unit Test as well as Front end testing using PHPUnit, Selenium test cases.  • Code automated tasks for browsers using Selenium (Python).  • Created quality gates in SonarQube dashboard and enforced in the pipelines to fail the builds when conditions not met.  • Used Chrome Developer Tools and Firebug for debugging and troubleshooting the code.  • Developed and tested many features in an AGILE environment using Ruby on Rails.  • Built a website using Amazon Web Services(AWS) with PHP, MySQL.  • Participated in the design phase of a web application by using RMI, XML, PDF, Java encryption/decryption technologies.  • Installed and configured WebSphere Application Server, WebSphere Portal Server on Unix/Linux Servers, created Portal Clusters using horizontal & vertical clustering.  • Worked on agile methodology for software development and working on Atlassian products kind of Jira, Hipchat, Zoom, confluence etc.  Environment: PHP, Zend, Code Ignitor, Magento, Joomla, Javascript, HTML5, CSS, Ajax, Bootstrap, AngularJS, Java, Spring, Struts, PL/SQL, DB2, Webservices, Soap, Rest, Eclipse, Zend Studio, Jboss, SVN, Phpunit, Selenium, Sonarqube, Chrome Developer Tools, Agile, AWS, XML, Jira, Linux, hipchat PHP Developer Cisco - Chicago, IL April 2011 to November 2013 Responsibilities    • Writing and Optimizing MySQL Queries and connect queries to PHP.  • Validate forms using JQuery, Ajax, and PHP.  • Built AJAX pages using PHP to display current server time.  • Developed user interface using PHP, Symfony, Laravel, Bootstrap, AJAX, JQuery, HTML, CSS.  • Designed & created websites in WordPress using Bluehost Web Hosting Solutions.  • Worked on translating wireframes and design into Drupal specific features.  • Web application development for backend system on using Angular with cutting edge HTML5 and CSS3 techniques.  • Prepared Java/J2EE development structure for Rational Application Developer.  • Developed hibernate mappings to tables using JPA annotations.  • Struts Framework is used to build Servlets and Java Servlet pages.  • Developed API Gateway and Restful Webservices using Node.js.  • Developed web services, SOAP message envelopes and headers using WSDL.  • Created GUI builder using NetBeans.  • Trimmed the Jboss EAP to create the slim version of Application Server and secured the Jboss application server.  • Used CVS to maintain source and version management and used Eclipse as IDE.  • Developed test cases and performed unit test using PHPUnit, Jasmine Tested application using Firebug and Xdebug.  • Experience in using software development methodologies like Waterfall model and Agile development.  • Designed and implemented HPeXstream Dialogue on the AWS EC2.  • Developing content rich web part using BCOOL portal framework using DHMTL, XML, XSLT, CSS, DOM and related script technique.  • Assigned the appropriate resources to the JIRA Portfolio - Story, Epics.  • Created, cloning Linux Virtual Machines, templates using VMware Virtual Client Configuring data store to ESXi server.  • Integrating Jira with Stash/Crowd/Hipchat/Bitbucket Server.  Environment: PHP, Synphony, Wordpress, Drupal, Javascript, HTML5, CSS, Java, Hibnerate, Struts, PL/SQL, sql server, Webservices, Soap, NetBeans, Jboss, CVS, Phpunit, Waterfall, AWS, XML, Jira, Linux, hipchat. Software Developer Liberty Mutual Insurance - Atlanta, GA February 2010 to March 2011 Responsibilities    • Implemented the locking object using multi-threading before committing to Database.  • Used Java Multithreaded programming to develop multithreaded modules and applications.  • Involved in designing the user interfaces using JSPs.  • Designed a modern SOA platform for architecting and modeling technical solution.  • Used HTML, XHTML, DHTML, Java Script, Bootstrap, AJAX, JQUERY, XML, XSLT, XPATH, JSP and Tag Libraries to develop view pages developed the application using SPRING Framework that leverages Model View Controller (MVC) architecture.  • Implemented utility classes which handle the string and date manipulation.  • Involved on implementing the Exception Handling for the application.  • Implemented Angular form validation using JavaScript along with DOM manipulation, creating cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant CSS-based page layouts..  • Developed Java applications to create, update and delete data stored in relational databases using JDBC programming interface.  • Developed UI and backend applications using Hibernate, Java, Spring, JSP, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, and AJAX. Developed JUnit classes for the application.  • Responsible for Web UI development in JavaScript using jQuery, AngularJS and AJAX for dynamic loading of Web pages.  • Responsible for Development of Hibernate objects for data fetching for batch and front-end processing.  Environment: Java, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Grunt, Spring Boot, Spring MVC, Hibernate, JPA, jQuery Education Master of computer science in computer science university of Dallas Skills PHP (7 years), jquery (5 years), MySQL (5 years), HTML 5 (4 years), CSS3 (4 years), Django (4 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:  Web Technologies  React, Redux, AngularJS, ES6, Redux, Typescript, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS, Ajax, Bootstrap, SASS, LESS, Java, MYSql, Mongodb, Webservices, Rest, NodeJS, ExpressJS, Microservices.    Web Services SOAP WS, RESTful WS, JMS API, WSDL, JAXP, JAXB, JNDI and XML, SOA, Ajax, JMS, MQ Series, SOAP, Rest, WSDL, JAX-RS and JAX-WS.  Languages PHP, Laravel, Java, PL/SQL, Bash, UML, XML, HTML.  Databases Oracle, MySQL, MS SQL Server, MS Access, PostgreSQL.  Version control SVN, CVS, Clear Case.    Operating Systems: UNIX (Solaris, Ubuntu, Linux, and OSX); Windows 7/8, MAC  Testing Tools JUnit, SOAP UI.