PeopleSoft Technical Analyst PeopleSoft Technical Analyst PeopleSoft Technical Analyst - Massachusetts Eye and Ear Infirmary Medford, MA Over 7+ years of experience as PeopleSoft HRMS/FSCM techno functional experience.    ? Proficient in all phases of the system development life cycle including requirement gathering, data conversion, system implementation, system testing and acceptance testing.  ? Strong academic background with long experience and quick grasping ability for newer technologies and integrate them with PeopleSoft.  ? Excellent troubleshooting ability across all tiers: app, web, and database. Extensively using Oracle Support.  ? Proven to deliver services with high level of customer satisfaction, excellent track record of meeting deadlines, planning and organizational skills.  ? Good understanding of the PeopleSoft North American Payroll 9.2 business process.  ? Technical programming expertise in multiple enterprise applications (including Integration Broker - REST and WSDL services, Application engines, Application packages, Component interface, BI/XMLP publisher, Approval workflow engine (AWE), Security, PS-Queries), UNIX shell scripting, Control-M batch scheduling, SQR (OBIEE) and content management systems.  ? Experience in reporting tools SQR, PS Queries, and XMLP/BI and crystal reports.  ? Good hands on experience in trouble shooting the problems and improving the performance of application processes by Debugging, tuning and tracing.  ? Assisting and coordinating with users and support team during UAT testing and preparation of End-user Training docs. Work Experience PeopleSoft Technical Analyst Massachusetts Eye and Ear Infirmary - Boston, MA May 2015 to Present • Fixing production issues from various PeopleSoft HR and Finance modules including Payroll, Benefits and HR, Purchasing, Project Costing, Accounts Payable, Asset Management, Inventory, Time Reports,  • Globalize the existing batch processes and SQR programs to make them efficiently work under the effect of PeopleSoft conversion.  • Customized PAYGL process for Massachusetts Eye and Ear Infirmary.  • Created Multiple Inbound interfaces from Taleo to peoplesoft for Hiring, userprofiles processes.  • Created an Audit process to track user activities on Job/Benefits/payroll Data through Integration Broker.  • Implemented an interface to feed FSA (Health care FSA, Dependent care FSA) data to third party Benefit provider (Wage Works) and also implemented a custom functionality to let employees to enroll for MBTA commuter rail pass benefit at Wage Works.  • Worked on 401k Company Match outbound Interface to transmit the company Match for 401k investments after each on-cycle pay run.  • Created inbound/outbound interfaces for ADI for Time and Labor to track hours and amount.  • Created inbound/Outbound interface for internal system (IS Portal) to Send employee information to allow managers to be able to request or terminate IS access.  • Enhancement for Payroll by creating Custom page for manager to submit payroll adjustments to payroll staff. Adjustment form will accommodate pay requests and payroll reallocations.  • Created Inbound Interface General, multipurpose program to load data into PSHUP_TXN.  • Created a Report that shows employee's dependent and/or beneficiary age at the time the report is run. Would like the ability to run by Employee ID or by a larger group.  • Created Labor Distribution Report of employee detail gross distribution by Company, Department, COA based on the allocations for pay period.  • Outbound interface - transmitting the positive pay files for each company to respective banks.  • Labor Allocations with the ability to effective date earnings allocations and apply to all earnings, without users having to enter all earnings codes.  • Modified Payroll Check Print report and Direct Deposit Advice Print Report programs as per client's requirement.  • Worked on various enhancements to bolt on module adhering to the SLAs  • Responsible to create the technical design documents.  • Help the End users during data validation during their visits to Fiscal.  • Worked on the Budget check processing, PO calculation and PO creation process and Dispatch them. Resolve the budget check errors by helping them understand the rules.  • Involved in conversion of departmental data from legacy systems to Fiscal.  • Prepare the departments to bring their legacy systems data into PeopleSoft from legacy systems.  • Implemented an automated process to enroll employees in PeopleSoft benefits which are currently managing by third-party service provider (Crosby/Wage Works) and applying deductions.  • Worked on custom workflow (Business processes, Activities and Events) modification.  • Involved in running weekly and Monthly payroll with functional team and error solving.  • Modified BCBS Medical and Dental health care interface files according to recent vendor system upgrades and responsible for health insurance data corrections.  • Modified Check and Advice print SQRs and XMLP reports to have Universities' new president signature on checks/advices.  • Defined functional specifications and technical requirements.  • Implemented a custom daily feed process from PeopleSoft FSCM system to HRMS system to sync all GL accounting codes and their mapping to departments.  • Worked on custom workflow (Business processes, Activities and Events) modification.  • Extended search criteria for both Personal information and JOB data pages to include all name types rather than limiting to primary name type.  • Deliver the change requests proposed by the client in the prescribed time lines.  • Involving in preparation of artifacts such as technical specification documents and unit test plan and coordinate the UAT phase with users.  • Resolve defects in testing phase and provide support for test and deployment activities.  • Developed SQLs to pull the Combo edit errors prior to load process to avoid the downstream errors.  • Developed the Application library to track the all statistics in a history table for reporting and tracking, which eliminated 40 hours of manual for every month.  • Built and tested a custom Month End Close Execution and Tracking Tool in PeopleSoft used by over 50 Departments in the State.  • Create technical specification documents and unit test plan and coordinate the UAT phase with users. Enterprise Showroom Automation August 2014 to August 2014 • This project allows the car dealer to manage (create, update and delete) inventory, employees, and customers, also manage sales and service invoicing. It helps the customers to purchase cars online, book a sales appointment to get the car and also a service appointment for repairs.  • Technologies used HTML, CSS, Java Servlets and JSP Scripting are used as front-end, MySQL as back-end. Prediction and Search of Movies January 2014 to January 2014 • Optimized the MSSQL dataset which consists of 1 Million Records which is taken from movielens.org. Predicts and suggests the users based on the information provided by user and the training datasets provided.  • Technology used is python. Software Developer Accenture - Hyderabad, Telangana August 2010 to December 2013 • Understanding the Business requirements and involved in the design, coding and unit testing of North West Cash out outbound Interface.  • Involved in preparing the Technical Specification Documents.  • Used App Engine programs, Component Interface and File Layouts to load data into PeopleSoft Custom tables.  • Created Permission lists, users, roles and assigned roles to users through Maintain Security.  • Experience in preparing Test Cases, generating the Test Data, reporting the bugs.  • Good knowledge in Quality Center and SQL.  • Experience in reporting tools SQR, PS Queries, and XMLP/BI and crystal reports.  • Good hands on experience in trouble shooting the problems and improving the performance of application processes by Debugging, tuning and tracing.  • Strong knowledge of STAT migration tool.  • Assisting and coordinating with users and support team during UAT testing and preparation of End-user Training docs  • Organized daily status calls and Requirement Review meetings.  • Extracted the Cash out transactions using Application Engine and Custom SQR program and write them into flat files.  • Involved in Creating Record Definitions, Pages, Components, Inbound and Outbound interfaces.  • Created PL/SQL application packages to validate the loaded legacy data in PeopleSoft.  • Created BI publisher reports in Excel and PDF format for Civil Service Historical Job data.  • Maintain the history data for terminated colleagues in Custom tables through component interface.  • Preparation of Unit test plan and execution.  • Designed the SQL to pull the erroneous data from the load.  • Analysis and fix of defects. Wi-Fi February 2011 to February 2011 • Wi-Fi Scheduling algorithms of higher complexity were taken, optimized and simulated in Java.  • Technologies used Java, shell scripting and graph software. Education Master of Science in Computer Science Fitchburg State University - Fitchburg, MA December 2015 Bachelor of Technology in Computer Science JNTU, India May 2011 Skills PEOPLESOFT, REPORTING TOOLS, SQR, DATABASE, MYSQL Additional Information Technical Skills:  • Applications: PeopleSoft 8.x, PeopleSoft 9.x  • People Tools: 8.43, 8.45, 8.49, 8.50, 8.51,8.53, 8.54  • Development Tools: Application Desinger, Application Engine, Application Packages, PeopleCode and Workflow  • Administration Tools: Data Mover, PeopleSoft Process Scheduler  • Reporting Tools: PeopleSoft Query Tool, SQR and BI Publisher  • Integration Tools: Component Interface, File Layouts and Integration Broker  • Migration Tools: Phire, STAT, Application Designer  • Database: Oracle 9i, 10g and 11g, MS SQL, MYSQL    Functional Skills:  • HCM - HR, Benefits, Payroll, Payroll for North America, Benefits, Employee Self Service, Manager Self Service  • FSCM - Accounts Receivables, Accounts Payables, Purchasing, Project Costing, Inventory and Asset Management.