Lead Software Developer Lead <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Work Experience Lead Software Developer July 2018 to Present Worked as Sr. Software Developer(.Net) in Excelsoft Technologies (From July'14 to July'18) Senior Software Developer - .Net Developer EXCEL SOFT Technologies July 2014 to July 2018 JUL 2014 - JUL 2018    Excelsoft Technologies is an innovative technology and business driven professional services firm providing education domain Web based and mobile based Solutions to our huge clients across the globe.    Senior Software Developer - .Net Developer    Project 1: NTU Portal (Running Project)  Technology used: C#, Sql Server, Web Api, Jquery, Angular-js, DNN-9, ADO.Net,  Entity Framework(code first)  Team Size: 5  Designation: Sr. Software Developer  My Role: Developer    Project Description: This project is about developing a portal for NTU students and alumni where there is social network for its users, job portal for them, Blog portal to express themselves, Event module to create or to register to some event etc.:    • Worked on Feeds, News and Announcement, Social Invite, Photo galley modules  • Done the Complete Server side and client side coding for these modules    Project 2: BYUI-EPS  Technology used: C#, Sql Server, Web Api, Angular-js, Entity Framework(code first)  Team Size: 5  Designation: Sr. Software Developer  My Role: Developer    Project Description: This project is about developing a Education positioning system for BYU students where student can get counseling about what career they should choose for their graduation, student can plan their graduation period etc    • Worked on Education strategy module.  • Done the Complete Server side and client side coding for this module Software Developer(.Net) in Enuke Softwares (From January 2014 to July 2014 Worked as Software Developer(.Net) in W3Origin (From Sep'12 to Sep'13) Software Developer - .Net Developer Enuke January 2014 to July 2014 Softwares JAN 2014 - JuL 2014  Enuke Software is an innovative technology and business driven professional services firm providing Customized Software Development and Web based Solutions to our huge clients across the globe.    Software Developer - .Net Developer    Project 1: SCHEDULE ONCE  Technology used: C#, Sql Server, Web Api, Jquery, Angular-js, ADO.Net  Team Size: 3  Designation: .NET DEVELOPER  My Role: Developer    Project Description: This project facilitates scheduling of meetings. It already had this functionality .I was working on its mobile-admin module where we have to implement the same functionality for mobile application using phone gap. Along with that, my other responsibilities are:    • Prepared the design document from the PRD  • Wrote stored procedures.  • Done the Complete Server side coding for this Module  • Maintenance on client side written using Angular-js    Project 2: HOME SOLUTION PORTAL  Technology Used: Asp.net, C#, Sql Server, ADO.Net  Team Size: 4  Designation: .NET DEVELOPER  My Role:-: Developer    Project Description: This project has Six Module i.e. Login, Product Catalog, Enquiry, Feedback, Admin and Discount offering. I have handled the Login module and Admin Module and done the complete coding for these Modules. Here my responsibilities were:    • Prepared the SRS from the Customer Requirement Sheet  • Prepared the Database after approving the SRS.  • Done the Complete Coding for the Login and Admin Module    Project 3: MOULD MANAGEMENT SYSTEM  Technology Used: Asp.net, C#, Sql Server, ADO.Net  Team Size: 3  Designation: GET  My Role:-: Developer    Project Description: This project deals with making complete Intranet based application which keeps complete inventory of all the moulds used in the plant and generating reports for day to day mould usage. It consist of following modules: login module, Mould Workshop, mould Requisition, Mould Approval, Reporting Module It involves various level of Authorization. Here my responsibilities were:    • Understand the Client Requirements and prepare the SRS and layout of the project  • Prepared the Database for this project  • Completed the design for this module like group creation, updation, searching, generates report etc.  • Completed the coding and testing Graduate Engineer Trainee(.Net Developer) JK TYRES & INDUSTRIES Ltd July 2011 to August 2012 Education Diploma in Net NIIT B.Tech in CSE Northern India Engineering College CBSE Senior Secondary CBSE Little flowers public school