Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer - Infosys Limited Oakland, CA Work Experience Software Developer Infosys Limited - San Jose, CA May 2019 to Present Working on UI for an ecommerce project. Java Developer Eagle Technologies - Arlington, VA January 2018 to February 2019 Part of a team that is responsible for maintaining the Department of Health and Human  Services(HHS) Head Start Enterprise System(HSES).  • Developed microservices to help refactor the multiple monolith applications and adopt a Service Oriented Architecture (SOA).  • Developed new features for HSES as per the client's request.  • Implemented a prototype for a Single-Sign On (SSO) application to replace existing system. Junior Software Developer (Java) National Commission for Higher Education - ER July 2013 to May 2015 Developed web management systems and worked in all the phases of SDLC including  analysis, design, development, testing and implementation.  • Involved in requirements gathering and analysis in technical perspective, provided efficient  solutions.  • Also Involved in the feasibility studies of the client's requirements and developing UI mockups  based on the requirements.  • Worked on preparing design documents including system architecture, database design, UI  design and class diagrams.  • Developed systems following design documents, wrote unit tests, executed acceptance test plans  and took part in implementation activities.  • Performed the roles of module leader and team member effectively. Junior Application Developer Zara Mining Share Company - ER February 2012 to June 2013 Took an instrumental role in implementing a personnel/HR management system which relieved  the HR staff of tedious paper work and improved the new employee onboarding process by  30%.  • Assisted in designing, building, and maintaining database to store employee information.  • Supported employee account maintenance. Education MS in Computer Science in Computer Science Norfolk State University December 2017 BS in Computer Science in Computer Science Eritrea Institute of Technology July 2013 Skills ECLIPSE, JAVA, HIBERNATE, SPRING, JSP, Javascript, MySQL Additional Information TECHNICAL EXPERTISE  Programming Languages: Java, Javascript, SQL, HTML, XML  Frameworks and Technologies/Tools: JEE, Spring, Hibernate, Servlets, JSP, Apache Wicket,  Liquibase, Maven, JUnit, Mockito, TestNG, Flask, Git, Tortoise SVN, CSS, Bootstrap, Tomcat,  openSAML, Jira.  Softwares:Eclipse, NetBeans.  DataBases: PostgreSQL, mySQL  Operating Systems: Linux, Windows, macOS.