Senior Software Developer Senior <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Software Developer - SpectraForce Technologies Pvt.Ltd • 8 years of experience in Client /Server, Web Applications and Windows applications using Microsoft Technologies and .NET framework.  • Strong in the complete Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including requirements definition, design, programming / testing and implementation of major systems.  • Proficient in designing and developing application systems in local and distributed environment using various Object Oriented Methodologies.  • Extensive Knowledge in design and development of User Interfaces using ASP.NET, MVC and Visual Studio.  • Good Hands on experience using ASP.NET and ASP.NET MVC.  • Developed database applications using C#.NET with SQL Server and Microsoft Access as the databases using ADO.NET Components.  • Experience in writing RestFul Services using ASP.Net Web API, Web Services and WCF services.  • Strong experience in developing Stored Procedures to improve performance of the site and to decrease the number of server side scripts to implement the business logic.  • Experience with Source Code Management, Code Documentation, Application Documentation, User Guide and User Training Manuals preparation process.  • Experience with SQL Server 2005/2008 and MS Access Database development.  • Experienced in using Ajax controls and other Third Party Control.  • Experience in Web Development Tools -HTML 5, XML, JavaScript, IIS, SVN, TFS.  • Hands of experience in using technologies like Angular 4, LINQ, and Entity Framework.    Technical Background Work Experience Senior Software Developer SpectraForce Technologies Pvt.Ltd December 2015 to Present Sr. Software Developer SpetraForce Technologies Pvt.Ltd December 2015 to Present PackRat gives flexibility for Operational managers at facility centres to view and generate routes for the drivers for current or future dates. Apart from creating routes for drivers it also provides other features like creation of drivers, Viewing reports, scheduling driver hours, scheduling facility operational hours, some other features. Other Modules is Driver App, Which allows drivers to view and completed the assigned loads from web application.    Responsibilities:  ? Participated in requirements gathering and compiled them into design document.  ? Followed agile methodologies (Scrum) and Test Driven Development.  ? Involved in Discussion Board for Client Interaction for the change requests and follow - ups.  ? Created RestFul Web API's using Asp.net Web API and then consumed in front end application.  ? Used Cascading Style Sheets (CSS) for a unified look and feel of the application.  ? Used ADO.NET for data retrieving, querying, storage and manipulation interface screens developed using ASP.NET.  ? Created Joins, Views, functions, stored procedures and triggers as part of the database programming.  ? Involved in performance tuning and query optimization.  ? Maintenance/Enhancement of Project and handling/fixing bug on daily basis.  ? Used MVC architecture and developed latest modules using Type Script.  ? Used Onion design pattern for developing the application.    Environment: Angular 4, .Net Framework, MVC4, LINQ, Entity Framework, Web API, Boot strap, Visual Studio 2012, ASP.NET, C#, HTML 5, CSS, Java Script, JQuery, SQL SERVER 2012, TFS. Sr. Software Developer Beta Bulls February 2014 to Present Simple Onboard is a simple onboarding applications where a client who is using this application can post jobs for different locations/stores and applicants can apply for the posted jobs. Later the hr admin department can conduct interviews according to the eligibility of the applicants. Once applicant is went through interviews and selected for a job then he will  become employee once the E-Verify process is completed. There are different User role available in this project like  Superadmin who can add client and can do anything in the project, Hr Admin, he who is from client side who can able to add  divisions, districts, locations, jobs etc; and Manager who can check the details of the applicant before hiring him/her.    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in designing of web page.  ? Created RestFul Web API's using Asp.net Web API and then consumed in front end application.  ? Used Boot Strap CSS for unified look and feel of the application.  ? Designed and written functionality for User Controls and consumed them.  ? Used Master pages, Update Panel.  ? Utilized ASP.NET validation controls and JavaScript, J-Query to perform client side validation.  Environment: .Net Framework, Boot strap, Visual Studio 2012, ASP.NET, C#, Web API, HTML 5, CSS, Java Script, JQuery, SQL SERVER 2012, TFS. Sr. Software Developer Beta Bulls January 2015 to October 2015 EPM is like a Customer relationship management applications, where the sales representatives will create a Lead after contacting the customer which will be converted to account once the customer accepts the request. There are different  modules available in the project like Dashboard, Leads, Accounts, Sales Activities, Marketing Documents and Help Requests.  The data in these modules will be displayed based the roles like Sales Rep, Sales Manager, Sales Director, IT Admin and  Entrepreneur admin. Each role has different set of permissions which can be configured in Admin module which can be  accessed only by entrepreneur admin.    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in meetings with onsite project manager and discussed about the requirement of the project and documented them.  ? Taken care of project architecture and the technologies to be used in the project.  ? Created RestFul Web API's using Asp.net Web API and then consumed in front end application.  ? The requirements were divided into modules and assigned tasks to junior team members.  ? Developed Database based on the requirements.  ? Implemented MVC architecture and Repository Pattern.    Environment: .Net Framework, MVC4, LINQ, Entity Framework, Web API, Boot strap, Visual Studio 2012, ASP.NET, C#, HTML 5, CSS, Java Script, JQuery, SQL SERVER 2012, TFS. Senior Software Developer for Beta Bulls February 2014 to October 2015 Worked as Software Developer with Suyati Technologies Pvt.Ltd from June 2013 to Jan 2014  • Worked as Software Engineer with Ardent Technologies India Pvt.Ltd from April 2011 to May 2013. Net Developer Suyati Group Of Companies June 2013 to January 2014 Penguin Web Project(PWP) is an ecommerce website where users will find the books and purchase them. In this  admin will add all the books that are requested by the authors to publish in PWP website. The published books are  displayed in the website according to the generics. So the user can create his account in the website or without having account, can able to purchase books from website by providing valid address.    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in designing of web pages for user authentication module and search module.  ? Followed agile methodologies (Scrum) and Test Driven Development.  ? Used Knockout.js file for binding data to the User Controls.  ? Used Boot Strap CSS for unified look and feel of the application.  ? Designed and written functionality for User Controls and consumed them.  ? Involved in daily status meeting with onsite Team Manager and discussed about the work progress.  ? Involved in Discussions with Business Analysts for better understanding of user stories and functionality buckets which we are working on.  ? Used Master pages, Update Panel.  ? Utilized ASP.NET validation controls and JavaScript, J-Query to perform client side validation.  Environment: .Net Framework, Boot strap, Visual Studio 2012, ASP.NET, C#, HTML 5, CSS, Java Script, JQuery, SQL SERVER 2012, TFS. Net Developer Ardent Technologies India Pvt.Ltd January 2012 to May 2013 This website process will provide the applicant/client with access to apply or complete required recertification paperwork without physically coming into the agency. This service will improve our customer service by not having clients waiting or missing scheduled appointments. This process will also decrease the volume of staff time that is currently used to complete these processes.    Responsibilities:  ? Participated in requirements gathering and compiled them into design document.  ? Followed agile methodologies (Scrum) and Test Driven Development.  ? Involved in Discussion Board for Client Interaction for the change requests and follow - ups.  ? Used Cascading Style Sheets (CSS) for a unified look and feel of the application.  ? Used ADO.NET for data retrieving, querying, storage and manipulation interface screens developed using ASP.NET.  ? Created and used User Controls and Custom Controls.  ? Used ADO.NET while implementing business logic middleware.  ? Used Master pages, Update Panel, Extender controls.  ? Utilized ASP.NET validation controls and JavaScript, J-Query to perform client side validation.  ? Created Joins, Views, functions, stored procedures and triggers as part of the database programming.  ? Involved in performance tuning and query optimization.  ? Maintenance/Enhancement of Project and handling/fixing bug on daily basis.    Environment: .Net Framework 4.0, Visual Studio 2010, ASP.NET, C#, HTML, CSS, Java Script, XML, XSD, SQL SERVER 2008, UML, MS Visio, Log Viewer, Bug Tracker, Tortoise SVN. Net Developer Ardent Technologies India Pvt.Ltd April 2011 to December 2011 AIS Dental Imaging is a dental Medical Software for imaging manipulation. The main aim of this product is to facilitate monitoring and analyzing of teeth operation. It's very helpful for dentist on their patients and practices. Its allow dentist to take teeth image and analyze the teeth problem. This Product offers image analysis tools that allow users to zoom, magnify, measure, and annotate images. Accurate angle, linear, and polygonal measurements are available, and using annotations, these measurements can be permanently recorded with the saved image.    AIS Dental Imaging module has some basic imaging capabilities which can handle scanning, importing, cropping, and storing images. This is mostly targeted for documents, but can also easily be used with digital photos which you can import from dental camera. With AIS Dental Imaging Software can conveniently share images by printing, importing/exporting in the main image formats, sending images by e-mail, and sending images with a viewer. The software can be used with its own patient file or may be integrated with other dental practice management software.    Responsibilities  ? Involved in documenting the process both at the Functional and Technical level using Visio UML.  ? Designed User Interface using Asp.net Standard Controls, Win Forms and WPF.  ? Designed CSS files to provide the better User Interface.  ? Consumed Web Services and WCF Services as part of the SOA.  ? Extensively used ADO.NET objects like Sql Connection, Sql Command, Sql Data Reader, Sql Data Adapter and Dataset  ? Worked on parsing and editing XML documents by validating it to the schema using class libraries provided by .NET.  ? Maintenance/Enhancement of Project and handling/fixing bug on daily basis.    Environment: Windows Forms, WPF, ASP.NET, C#, ADO.NET, XML, HTML, JavaScript, IIS, SQL Server 2008, MySQL, Visual Studio 2010, SVN, Lead Tools, Bug Tracker, Log Viewer, Tortoise SVN. Education B.E in Electronics And Communication Engineering Sri Krishna Devaraya University - Ananthapur, TAMIL NADU, IN Additional Information Operating systems Windows Family, Windows Server 2008/2012  Languages C#.NET, Java Script, J-Query, T-SQL.  Programming Technologies .NET Framework, ASP.NET, Web Forms, Win Forms, ADO.NET, AJAX, JavaScript, J-Query, HTML, XML, CSS.  Web Servers Microsoft IIS 7.0/7.5  Version control Tortoise SVN, TFS  RDBMS MS-SQL Server 2005/2008, T-SQL, MS Access  IDE Visual Studio 2008/2010 and Visual Studio.NET  New Technologies M Angular 4, MVC, LINQ, Entity Framework.