Software developer Co-op <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">developer</span> Co-op Solution Speciallist Mechanicsburg, PA • Around 7 years of experience as a JAVA/J2EE Developer and C# Developer includes Analysis, Design and Development of quality software for Web-based applications using JAVA/ J2EE technologies and .Net Technologies using software development methodologies / frameworks like SDLC, OOAD, Waterfall and AGILE.  • Strong experience in developing web applications using JAVA/J2EE concepts like OOP, Multithreading, Collections, JDBC, JSP, SERVLETS, JMS, HIBERNATE, JPA, SPRING, WEB SERVICE, STRUTS and Java Beans.  • Hands on Experience on Entity framework, JDBC and HIBERNATE for persisting data to different relational database and extensive knowledge in Java Persistence API.  • Good at implementing the database designing, SQL, stored procedures using RDBMS like MSSQL, DB 2, and Oracle.  • Developed web applications based on different design patterns such as Model-View-Controller (MVC), Data Access Object (DAO), Singleton Pattern, Front Controller, Business Delegate, Service Locator, Transfer Objects etc.  • Well experienced with XML parsing technologies like SAX, DOM, JAXB and using XSLT.  • Extensive experience in Web application development using - HTML, DHTML, CSS, JSTL, Razor, JavaScript, JQuery, JQuery Mobile, AngularJs, AWT, RMI, XML, XSD, XSTL, UML.  • Research, analyze and recommend implementation of new technologies like EJB 3.0.  • Worked on Struts open source java framework utilizing ASP.NET MVC, Unity, Struts Tiles, Struts Controllers (Action and Forms) and Client server validations.  • Good working knowledge on Spring core, Spring ORM, Spring DAO and Spring MVC architecture.  • Good Experience in implementing web services such as SOAP and REST using WSDL, JAX-WS and JAX-RS.  • Well experience in configuring and deploying applications onto application servers like Tomcat6.x/7.x, Glassfish, IIS7 and Web Sphere 7.x/8.x.  • Used Log4J for enabling runtime logging and performed system integration test to ensure quality of the system.  • Expertise in writing unit test cases using JUnitAPI.  • Good knowledge in using Maven and ANT Scripts for building and deploying the application in web/app servers.  • Extensive experience in using IDE tools like Visual Studio 2015, Eclipse, Net beans and IBM RAD.  • Experience and deep knowledge in bug tracking tools like JIRA and source code management tools like Source Tree, Microsoft VSS, Tortoise SVN, Jenkins.  • Involved in performance tuning, code re-factoring, load test, technical design documentation and User manuals.  • Created Web Services using Apache Axis.  • Used GIT to maintain code version control. Maintained different branches in various stages like development, QA, and production.  • Highly self-motivated, good technical, communications and interpersonal skills. Able to work reliably under pressure. Committed team player with strong analytical and problem solving skills, ability to quickly adapt to new environment and technologies. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Software developer Co-op DuPont Pioneer - Johnston, IA May 2016 to December 2017 • Followed Agile Kanban methodology that included iterative application development, weekly Sprints and stand up meetings.  • Heavily used the dependency injection feature provided by Unity framework for bean wiring.  • Entity framework support for interfacing with the database and integrated other presentation application tier Unity and REST web service.  • Worked on restful web service which enforced a stateless client server and support JSON(few changes from SOAP to RESTFUL technology) involved in detailed analysis based on the requirement documents.  • Used WCF, MSMQ for reliable and asynchronous exchange of important information.  • Designed all CSHTML pages using custom designed tags to populate web page content from Content Management Systems (CMS) and deployed them on IIS7 Application Server.  • Implemented database layer using DAO and Entity Framework in maintenance projects.   • Use of Multithreading and Collections Framework including List, Map, Dictionary etc.  • Implemented AngularJS Controllers to maintain each View data. Implemented AngularJS Service calls using Angular Factory.  • Created rich and highly interactive responsive UI components with JavaScript, JQuery, JQuery Mobile HTML5 and CSS3, Node JS, Backbone Js.  • Developed various generic JavaScript functions used for validations.  • Designed and developed the service business process and data access to Oracle database and back-end layers with MSMQ, WCF and XML.  • Used Nuget for building the applications for various environments.  • Experience in performance improvement and Production support for live Applications.   • Designed and created Entity framework persistence classes using ADO Entity Framework.  • Wrote Stored Procedures/Triggers/Functions using SQL Navigator to perform operations on MS SQL database.  • Developed and maintained automated regression test cases in Selenium Web Driver using C#.  • Used .Net unit test framework extensively and defined various Test Suites and Test Cases and Log4J to trace the flow of the application.  • Deployed applications on IIS7 application server to get efficient performance.  • Used subversion for version control across common source code used by developers. Sr. Software engineer Yash Technologies - Indore, Madhya Pradesh August 2010 to December 2014 Sr. Software Engineer YASH Technologies - Indore, Madhya Pradesh August 2010 to December 2014 IOC, Spring 3 MVC, JSTL, Javascript, JQuery, Ajax, HTML, JSP, CSS, Hibernate 3, JPA, JMS, SQL, IBM Websphere 7 & 8, SOAP web service, JAX-WS, XML, XSLT, Json, Spring Security, Rally, Git    • Developed Web services to allow communication between the applications using Rest and SOAP Web services.  • Designed, Developed and analyzed the front-end and back-end using JSP, Servlets and Spring 3.0.  • Integrated spring (Dependency Injection) among different layers of an application.  • Worked with Agile and Waterfall Methodology.  • Implemented scripting with Ajax, JSF, and XML to dynamically refresh the page contents.  • Generate UI mockups from paper and pencil concepts to high fidelity prototypes that convey the interaction model using HTML5, CSS and AngularJs.  • Implemented various java design patterns Singleton, Data Access objects, Factory pattern, etc.  • Involved in developing SOA Web Services using XML, XPATH, XSD, SOAP, WSDL and Apache Axis.  • Extensively used JSTL tag libraries  • Used Notepad++ data import handler for indexing data in different formats like XML, TXT, CSV etc.  • Developed various JUnit test cases for Unit Testing.  • Worked with Testers in resolving various defects in the application and was an integral part of the team.  • Worked with NoSQL databases like Cassandra and Mongo DB.  • Implemented Hibernate for data persistence.  • Implemented Java persistence API (JPA) through Hibernate 3.0.  • Used IBM RAD as IDE for development of the application.  • Indexed data in elastic search using the river plugin. Queried data using the elastic search API's  • Prepare Java/J2EE development structure for Maven.  • Implemented the DAO pattern to connect to the database and retrieve data.  • Worked with Web Sphere 7.x/8.x as the web server.  • Extensive experience in Hibernate ORM mapping utilities and used query, criteria services.  • Performed Unit testing and performance tuning like profiling of the project.  • Unit tested controller layer using JUnit 4 and Mockito framework.  • Performed functional testing using SOAP UI and created mock services for testing on developer sandbox.  • Interacted with Business Analysts to come up with better implementation designs for the application.  • Interacted with the users in case of technical problems and mentoring the business users.  • Coded changes to remaining Java web applications as identified by the proof of concept stage of the project.    SKILLS AND PROFICIENCIES  • Programming languages: JAVA, C#, SQL, Javascript, HTML, CSS  • Databases: DB2, MYSQL, SQL Server, Mongo, Oracle  • Application Servers: IBM Websphere 7 & 8, Apache tomcat, IIS7  • Technologies and Framework:  Unity, Razor, Entity framework, Servlet, AJAX, JSP, XML, Hibernate, JPA, SOAP, JAX-WS, JAX-RS, XML, XSLT, Json, MVC, Spring 3, Spring IOC, Spring MVC, Spring security, Spring Boot, Struts, REST, JAX-RS, JQuery , AngularJs, JQuery Mobile, Microsoft unit test framework, Junit 4, SOA, JMS, Maven, JMS, Multi threading    • Tools: Selenium, Shouty, IBM RAD 7 & 8, SOAP-UI, tortoise SVN, Toad, Visual studio 2015, GIT, JIRA, Rally, Balsamiq, IBM RAD, Eclipse  • Other: Microsoft office, Windows, Linux, Microsoft Visio, Microsoft Project, UML Education Master of Science in Information Systems in Information Systems Illinois State University - Normal, IL August 2015 to December 2017 Technology Rajiv Gandhi Technical University - Bhopal, Madhya Pradesh August 2006 to July 2010 Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/gaurav-pathak-54972754 https://github.com/prophetgp