Software web engineer <span class="hl">Software</span> web engineer Software web engineer Cleveland, OH Responsible, result-driven IT professional at writing effective, scalable code that drives web applications. Excel at providing implementation, production and upgraded support for software components of moderate to high complexity and full life cycle project management. Hands-on experience with server-side and backend components of web applications ensuring that the application works across browsers and devices and successfully integrates with third-party web services. Outstanding experience with advanced OOP concepts, design patterns, software Engineering best practices. Long-term experience of working with relational databases and with third-party APIs and web services. Skillful at testing and troubleshooting web application elements to make sure the system remains usable and accessible once it is launched.    * Experience: 7 years combined developing websites, software architecture, providing web solutions.  * Leadership: The main Developer and founder of the website https://englishclub.md/ . Development and implementation of business logic and its further improvement under the company's needs. Creating the project helped the company take the first position in search results, which helped attract customers.  * Development: Successfully developing a large project, which consists of sales of car parts throughout Europe. More than 300+ sites on one Framework. Working with a big database, designing and writing functional optimization of the project. Work Experience Software web engineer Autodoc GmbH September 2013 to May 2019 Chisinau, MD  AUTODOC operates in 26 European countries today. The aim is to provide customers with the highest-quality car parts at fair prices, in order to guarantee their pleasure of owning a car and its good working order.    Software web engineer September 2013 - May 2019  • Maintenance of 300+ websites in all regions of Europe. Development and implementation of functionality. Discussion and design of tasks and further implementation under the deadlines.  • Development and maintenance of auxiliary internal projects. Projects for SEO optimization and promotion of sites in Google Search. Dense work with SEO department.  • Analyzing and developing the API. Close work with the mobile department, the introduction and modernization of the API to the requirements of all departments. PHP developer PH-prom SRL 2013 to 2013 - 2013  • Creating a social network https://www.drivolino.de/ for driving schools in Germany.  • Development of the functional part of the project, finding solutions for non-standard but interesting tasks. Optimization and writing code to meet the PSR standards.  • Implementation of the routing system in the project, the reworking of the project under the MVC. PHP developer PH-prom SRL 2012 to 2013 • Outsourcing, optimization and bug fixing.  • Performing daily tasks related to the project https://www.turkticaret.net/  • Development and participation in the creation of an online streaming service such as https://web.tv/ Education Computer Science; concentration in Exact Sciences STATE UNIVERSITY OF MOLDOVA 2009 to 2012 Skills Git, Html, Javascript, Node.js, Reactjs, Json, PHP, Codeigniter, Laravel, Symfony, Subversion, Soap, TCP/IP, VPN, Ajax, Css, nginx, Sftp, MySQL, Jquery, HTML 5, NoSQL, PostgreSQL, HTML5 Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/vitali-terus-82615861/ Additional Information TECHNICAL PROFICIENCIES    Languages: PHP, Java, SQL, JavaScript, UNIX shell Scripting, HTML, CSS  Technologies: JQuery, Json, Ajax, Node.js, ReactJS, Git, Subversion, Apache, nginx, unit testing, REST and SOAP Api's  Frameworks: Laravel, Symfony, Yii2, Codeigniter, FuelPHP, Spring Boot  Networking: TCP/IP, VPN, SSH, FTP/SFTP  DB: MySql, MongoDB