Java Software Engineer Java <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Java Software Engineer Falls Church, VA Seeking a Full Time Java Developer/ Software Engineer Position. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java Software Engineer Self-Exmployed - Falls Church, VA April 2016 to Present • Getting several projects through online bids.  • Designing and coding projects using full Software Development Life Cycle of the applications.  • Testing the projects using JUnit Test.  • Accomplishment: Completed several projects successfully.  • Key Technologies: Java, Spring, Hibernate, SQL, JUnit, Eclipse. Java Developer Ace Info Solutions/NOAA - Silver Spring, MD August 2015 to March 2016 • Serves as primary java programmer on MDL Iris Team to modernize and maintain API framework.  • Analyzes Java web service layer for efficiency and security.  • Key Technologies: Java, Spring, Hibernate, Linux, Git, Gerrit, Putty, Maven, using Agile/Scrum methodology. Java Instructor CTDC Institute - Washington, DC October 2014 to August 2015 • Teaching Java programming to students from different backgrounds.  • Developing projects and assignments to the students using Java, JavaScript, HTML, CSS3 and Eclipse. Java Software Engineer/ Developer Ivantis Group - Dot, WA August 2012 to March 2013 Task 1 - Developing Workroom Back-End for Research Hub (RH) Database of DOT.  • Adapted existing National Transportation Library (NTL) Integrated Search and Workroom code to meet business requirements of RH.  • Developed new modules/commands for RH business requirements not already covered by existing NTL code  • Created, edited and deleted tables and accounts.  • Provided regular and consistent database content updates, performance monitoring, and usage statistics.  • Suggested data design adjustments as needed.  Task 2 - Front End Application Upgrade to Enable Mobile Access.  • Development of mobile phone/PDA version of application to cover iPhone, droid, blackberry, etc.  • Compatibility with major browsers (Firefox, Google chrome, Safari, etc.)  • Add capability to find individual project records in Google and other search engines  • Key Technologies: Java, Spring, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Tomcat, SQL for Oracle 11g, JSP, Solr, and Eclipse.  • Accomplishment: Built the Research Hub for DOT and made it accessible for the smart phones. Java Developer BMT Designers and Planners - Arlington, VA June 2010 to July 2012 • Responsible for documentation of the project requirements.  • Involved in Core development using core Java.  • Involved in unit test cases of the application using JUnit.  • Performed SQL development in an Oracle 10g environment.  • Used JDBC to access the ORACLE database.  • Key Technologies: Java, SQL for Oracle 10g, JSP, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Apache Tomcat, and Eclipse. Java Programmer Alazzawe Consulting - Alexandria, VA January 2009 to June 2010 • Automate and provide web accessibility to applications by leveraging technologies like Java and HTML.  • Participate in the creation of test scripts and testing scenarios and quality assurance process for web-based and core Java applications.  • Provide Senior Programmers with research and implementation support on more complex projects.  • Key Technologies: SQL for Oracle 10g, Java, JUnit, and Eclipse. Education Master of Science in Software Engineering George Mason University - Fairfax, VA May 2014 Bachelor of Science in Mathematics Mustansiriya University - Baghdad, IQ August 1991 Skills Eclipse, J2ee, Java, Jboss, jquery, Jsp, Servlets, Database, Jdbc, Mysql, Oracle, Oracle 10g, Sql, Junit, Javascript, Json, Xml, Rational, Rational rose, Sdlc, JEE, Java J2Ee, Spring, Hibernate Additional Information • Master's degree in Software Engineering and Bachelor's degree in Mathematics.  • More than six years of experience performing Java/ J2EE development and code/functional testing.  • Sound Experience in development using Hibernate and Spring/Spring Boot.  • More than 10 years of experience as Mathematician.  • Sound experience in Linux, Unix, Git, Putty, Gerrit, and SQL for Oracle 10g/11g.  • Sound Experience in HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Windows, and MS Office.  • Working experience in an Agile/Scrum development environment.  • Analytical and logical approach to problem solving.  • Effective team player, with the ability to take responsibility and work independently.  • Strong oral and written communication skills.    TECHNICAL SKILLS  LANGUAGES: JAVA, J2EE, JDBC, JSP, XML, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, Ajax, JSON, JBoss, Waterfall SDLC, UML, Servlets, JQuery, JQuery UI, RESTful Web Service, MySQL. SOAP, and Rational Rose.  SOFTWARE: Eclipse, JUnit, Apache Tomcat 6.0, WebLogic, Sun Server, Apache WS, Microsoft Suite.  DATABASES: SQL/PL-MySQL 5.5/5.6, SQL for Oracle 10g/11g, and Database Diagram.  OS: Linux, UNIX and Windows.