Java Developer Java <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer Webster, NY • Good programming experience in developing web applications using Java, Struts, Maverick, JSON, Spring, Hibernate, JSP, JQuery & Ajax, XML.  • Expertise using web application servers such as Jetty server, IBM Websphere & Tomcat.  • Expertise in debugging application code and unit testing applications using JUnit.  • Expertise in developing application user interfaces with CSS, AJAX, HTML and JavaScript, JQuery.  • Expertise in developing Object Relational Mapping using Hibernate and Oracle.  • Mainly worked on development, maintenance & enhancement project and used Agile methodology for day to day project work.  • Self-motivated, result oriented with customer focus.  • Sun Certified Java-1.5 Programmer. Work Experience Java Developer VoicePort LLC January 2016 to March 2019 Java Developer Eclipse, Web July 2014 to September 2014 Frontier's Java APIs and middleware system passes data from the AS-400 backend system to the front end. It encompasses the CRM which ties into the Enterprise Service Bus.  Remote Process Call (RPC) mechanism is used to get the customers' accounts and product order information back and forth between JAVA and RPG tiers through different phase's operation such as manageAccount, getOrder, manageSchedule and submitOrder to the RPG database.    Responsibilities:  * Work on different defects throughout different phases of project life cycle.  * Attend daily standups and defect call.  * Make required changes in the existing web services and wsdl.  * Test services using soapUI.  * Support during UAT.    Project: Commercial Ordering in CRM.  Type: Enhancement & Support.  Software: Java, J2EE, JSP, JQuery, CRM Sterling, Web services.  Database: Oracle 10g Java Developer (Consultant) Frontier Communications September 2012 to October 2013 Java Developer Eclipse, Web September 2012 to September 2013 The new CRM system will allow CSRs to create orders for small businesses with multiple locations and multiple BTN numbers. The group order will be collection of multiple individual orders and each order will have unique WTN number, individual order will be grouped by group identifier.  This involves changes in group order interface between DPI/API and front end system which will support group ordering functionality in CRM. This include operations around:  1. Submit order to create or update in backend system.  2. Receive order responses from back end system.  3. Scheduling and reservation  4. Confirm the order.    Responsibilities:  * Understand CRM Sterling and configurator functionality.  * Coordinate with different project team members for requirement gathering.  * Carry out defect and task analysis based on assigned tasks/defects.  * Preparing Unit Test Cases (UTCs).  * Worked on different defects throughout different phases of project life cycle.  * Attend daily status and defect call.  * Coordinate and support testing corresponding to various code changes that are being deployed to different environments.  * Support during UAT.    Projects worked on for the client: Caterpillar Inc., USA  Project: Replenishment Loop Calculator.  Type: Development & Enhancement.  Software: Java, J2EE,Spring, Hibernate, Struts & JQuery.  Database: Oracle 9i/10g Java Developer August 2011 to April 2012 The Replenishment Loop Calculator is a PFEP optimization tool used by the Supply Chain Planning personnel. This tool will assist users in evaluating or re-evaluating part planning parameters. The tool will analyze planned future demand or orders and current execution parameters to calculate the 'best fit' replenishment methodology and suggested planning parameters. This tool will help facilities by providing decision support to the Supply Chain planning personnel in configuring supply chain for appropriate planning parameters.    Benefits:  Primary:  • Deployment of Enterprise Replenishment Loop Calculator Tool and Process  ? Driving standardization in tooling and process across the enterprise  ? Reducing waste and human error in the data collection and analysis process.  • Elimination of manual entry of data into the Pull Manager System for plants using the MRC Pull Manager for Kanban Replenishment    Secondary:  • Retirement of Excel Based Kanban Calculator  • Leverage previous work done with data consolidation into the Supply Chain Data Warehouse  Responsibilities:  * Coordinate with different project team members for requirement gathering.  * Analyze the existing tool by analyzing different JAVA application programs.  * Design new screens for POU using JSP and JQuery.  * Preparing Unit Test Cases (UTCs) using JUNIT.  * Code different Java programs and accordingly carry out Unit testing.  * Maintain quality standards in each work product delivered to client.  * Provide weekly status to team lead or project manager.  Project: POU Rewrite & PFEP.  Type: Development & Enhancement.  Software: Java, J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, Struts & JQuery.  Database: Oracle 9i/10g Java Developer (Consultant) Caterpillar Inc April 2011 to April 2012 Java Developer April 2011 to August 2011 The purpose of this project is to re-write the POU (Point Of Use) tool to better identify the root cause and corrective action of direct material issues at the Point of Use. Point of Use issues cause interruptions to build rate and potentially line down situations.  The metrics in the tool will measure the number of unavailable part numbers per operator by Value Stream. The metric, which will allow the ability to measure improvement in getting the right part number, in the right place, at the right quantity, at the right quality, at the right time - all the time.    Benefits of Project:  • Support CPS metric Divisional and Enterprise Executive Scorecard rollups  • Support quality control of production processes by tracking issues with direct material in a given plant and making it visible.  • Marry POU with PFEP data to ensure that plants are consistent across the applications.  Responsibilities:  * Coordinate with different project team members for requirement gathering.  * Analyze the existing tool by analyzing different JAVA application programs.  * Design new screens for POU using JSP and JQuery.  * Preparing Unit Test Cases (UTCs) using JUNIT.  * Code different Java programs and accordingly carry out Unit testing.  * Maintain quality standards in each work product delivered to client.  * Provide weekly status to team lead or project manager. Software Engineer AurionPro Solutions Ltd - Mumbai, Maharashtra November 2007 to May 2009 Education Bachelor Of Engineering in Computer Science Dr. Babasaheb Ambedkar University - Aurangabad, Maharashtra 2005 Additional Information Technical Skills:    Technologies:  • Java 1.8, Web Services(SOAP), JSP, Servlets, JDBC,CRM Sterling, Junit, ANT,PL/SQL  • HTML5, JSON, XML, CSS, JavaScript, Ajax, JQuery.  • Maverick, MVC, Struts, Spring and Hibernate.    Application Servers/Web Servers:  • Jetty Server, IBM Websphere, Apache Tomcat Server.    Databases:  • Oracle, MySQL    Tools:  • Eclipse, NetBeans, SoapUI.  • Jira  • SVN,CVS  • MySQL Server, Toad    Operating System:  • Windows, Linux