Web Developer Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Developer - Grinnell College Orlando, FL Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Developer Grinnell College - Grinnell, IA July 2017 to Present Now Software Developer Environmental Health & Safety - New York, NY August 2015 to June 2017 • 7Web developer within a twenty-five-person, international, cross-functional team for the Active Safety project, which created the next generation, custom, single-page, responsive web application to replace the legacy line-of-business web application. System used radio-frequency identification (RFID) tags and cloud-based software that run on both mobile and desktop devices to aid Environmental Health & Safety (EHS) professionals in management of their personal protective equipment (PPE) program.  • Migrated client implementation to a custom SPA framework that utilized ASP.Net MVC, AngularJS, Entity Framework, and jQuery (all routing, data access, caching, implemented as custom JavaScript code).  • Worked on the development team to ensure the application aggressively cached certain HTTP responses, so that if offline, those responses could be used as reference for future requests. Developed the application to run across modern desktop browsers (primary use case) and mobile devices, with iOS and Android applications.  • Responsible for providing application support for multiple languages and time zones through custom localization implementation (included server responses) and moment.js.  Envisage Systems, New York, NY  Software Developer August 2015 - June 2017 Software Engineer - Research & Development Aerosim Technologies Inc - Burnsville, MN May 2014 to July 2015 • Worked within a five person consulting team in an agile environment to develop and implement a .Net application and web services, utilizing Oracle databases and java applets to automate and provide support for the Healthy Pregnancy Project at HealthPartners. Utilized two-week sprints to execute, resulting in substantial increase in operational efficiencies for HealthPartners.  • Developed and refactored legacy source code to increase productivity of existing manual business processes, which were used to proficiently retrieve client coverage, eligibility status, and availability. Optimization of processes reduced turnaround time for deploying client updates.  • Provided web service to all development teams, allowing them to utilize these processes for future development and front facing applications.  • Assisted in the design and development of automated email delivery services for client and patient newsletters and corporate reports.  Aerosim Technologies Inc. Burnsville, MN  Software Engineer - Research & Development May 2014 - July 2015 Principal Software / Database Developer SatCom Marketing, LLC - Brooklyn Park, MN June 2013 to April 2014 • Worked as a member of a two-person development team to design, develop, and construct an e-Learning training solution for the company's next generation advanced pilot training web based Learning Content Management System (LCMS). The LCMS provides clients with self-paced instruction, demonstrations, self-assessment, practice scenarios, remediation, testing, and progress tracking. Application offered administrative support to manage and monitor course content, exam creation, user accounts, and course progression.  • Responsible for user interface (UI) standards and wireframes production as well as front-end templates and fully functional screen prototype fabrication utilizing Microsoft Visio and Adobe Illustrator for construction. Following wireframe completion, generated prototypes with HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap and jQuery for tableless page design with accessibility standards.  • Lead developer for question bank and examinations modules of LCMS. Developed and delivered utilizing .NET MVC 4 Razor syntax, jQuery, Knockout.js, custom JavaScript, AJAX, and bootstrap with a responsive UI design to allow application scaling on various mobile and non-conventional screens. Architected and implemented stored procedures and data access layer (DAL) using Entity Framework Code-First and API Controllers that responded to HTTP method requests from RESTful services.  SatCom Marketing, LLC Brooklyn Park, MN  Principal Software / Database Developer June 2013 - Apr 2014 Education Bachelors of Science in Computer Science in Information Systems Austin Peay State University - Clarksville, TN May 2013 Master's