Software Engineer <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Software Engineer - Fujitsu Sunnyvale, CA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Engineer Fujitsu - Sunnyvale, CA February 2018 to Present Software Engineer Macrosoft, New Jersey September 2017 to January 2018 Working within a team to build an application for a face recognition for the employees of certain companies,  Technologies used: Java1.8, Spring boot, MVC, Microservices, JPA, Rest api, Angular 2. Software Developer ARBWEBS - Cairo, EG 2015 to 2015 Built web application for stock market analysis, including post/get modules, back-end development, and user interface design. Communicated with clients to ensure requirements are met, and completed all projects on time and within budget, including documentation, troubleshooting, and final delivery.  • Recommended by peers as a focused, goal-oriented, charismatic programmer.  • Utilized Java, PHP, Codeigniter, Spring MVC, Hibernate, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, jQuery, Bootstrap, MySQL, Eclipse, NetBeans, Windows, and Linux. Software Developer ELRYADAH - Cairo, EG 2012 to 2015 Led completion of web-based software projects, analyzing requirements and designing complex functionality to deliver superb products. Designed modules for data interaction, as well as optimizing databases for speed and ease of access. Performed unit testing and troubleshooting.  Projects:  Online Shopping Web Application: Created data control between server and client, designed user interface, and performed database interactions.    908-838-5490 ? hamada.g.ibrahim@gmail.com ? https://www.linkedin.com/in/hamadagibrahim    Projects, ~~~~~~.:  • Real Estate Marketing: Developed web application, including modules for data retrieval, update, and deletion, as well as form view and search algorithm.  • Car Marketing: Designed and wrote website with ad creation, edit and deletion functionality, data control, intuitive user interface, and elegant code.  • Technologies: JAVA, Spring MVC, JavaScript, AJAX, jQuery, HTML, CSS, MySQL, Windows Part time Software Developer EGYTRONIC - Cairo, EG 2011 to 2012 Integrated development of software with existing internal framework, maintaining code and building web applications. Wrote classes for company framework. Designed online examination app, including user interface and back-end coding.    • Endorsed for productivity, knowledge, intelligence, and determination.  • Technologies: PHP, Smarty, JavaScript, AJAX, jQuery Education Master of Science in Computer Science in Database Management Systems Maharishi University of Management - Fairfield, IA 2017 Bachelor of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science Mansoura University 2011 Skills MYSQL, PHP, Javascript, HTML 5, Git, CSS Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/hamadagibrahim