Engineering Manager Engineering Manager Engineering Manager - CommandScape Fort Lauderdale, FL Work Experience Engineering Manager CommandScape - Delray Beach, FL November 2018 to Present Proficient in all commercial and residential properties, CommandScape's industry-leading software is capable of controlling  lighting, security, access control, and environmental systems.  CommandScape is a reliable and effortless solution to manage any  space-- anytime and anywhere.  Managed all engineering personnel and personally led development  programs to completion, meeting the company's strategic and financial goals. Utilized agile scrum based project management  processes to achieve all stakeholders goals. Technical products  included mobile application, cloud services and desktop applications. Software Developer CommandScape - Delray Beach, FL September 2015 to Present Proficient in all commercial and residential properties, CommandScape's industry-leading software is capable of controlling  lighting, security, access control, and environmental systems.  CommandScape is a reliable and effortless solution to manage any  space-- anytime and anywhere.  Time at CommandScape was spent designing and developing the Commandscape automation platform, spanning physical and cyber  security, lighting controls, access control, video integration and other  critical facility operations. I was apart of the team creating Mac OS, iOS and cloud infrastructure that drove the real-time, secure  software that integrators, end-users and property managers would  use every day. iOS Developer Voalte - Sarasota, FL September 2014 to August 2015 Voalte's mission is to develop modern age hospital communication  software and services to aid in the process of making communication  secure, easy and mobile for doctors, nurses and other staff.  During my time at Voalte I started working on their current  production iOS software to help add, fix and maintain. I later moved  onto their next iteration of the Voalte iOS software with a core team  of amazing iOS developers. My role was to implement features to the specifications provided while working with their QA team to ensure  world class reliability. During the beginning roll out of Voalte's new  software, I would go onsite to help debug and fix issues in the field with customers. Software Developer Totuit - Gainesville, FL August 2012 to March 2013 My time at Totuit consisted of contributing to the development of UF's  SnapUF transportation system utilizing real time socket communication to achieve real time tracking of drivers and student passengers  throughout UF's campus. Developing a web interface for gainesville  police to view real time location of all drivers/passengers and becoming  notified if a driver went off of their desired path.    ? Education High school or equivalent in Computer Software Engineering University of West Florida - Pensacola, FL 2012 to 2015 Skills Objective-c, Ssl, Git, Json, Linux Certifications/Licenses Certified ScrumMaster (CSM) July 2019 to July 2022 Additional Information Skills Objective-C, Git, GoLang, JSON, SQL, Linux, RESTful WebServices, AWS,  Scrum, Mobile UI, TLS/SSL, JIRA, Linux, Bash, CI    ?