Machine learning Software Engineer Machine learning <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Machine learning Software Engineer - Strong Bridge Seattle, WA • Around 6 years of Global industrial experience with strong programming skills in Python, C/C++ , R Programming for Software and Firmware Development with Realtime System, Web services using database SQL,MySQL, Apache Cassandra, NOSQL, Oracle PL-SQL and Client-Server Application services domain on Windows, Linux.  • Experienced with Object Oriented Software Development, architecting scalable platforms, database design and agile methodologies, Model based Software development tools including MATLAB, Simulink, State flow, Software Applications with Debugging tools having good exposure to software development life cycle (SDLC) like Feasibility, Design, Coding, Development, Testing, Implementation.  • Experienced in Python and Perl scripting as well as several Python libraries such as Pandas, Numpy, matplotlib, Scipy, PyQt, Scapy, SQLAlchemy for generating complex graphical data, creation of histograms  • Expert at industry standard IDEs like IntelliJ, Pycharm, NetBeans as well as in the field of Computer Vision, Image processing, Machine Learning, Artificial Intelligence techniques, Deep Learning Frameworks -TensorFlow, PyTorch, Caffe for Cyber Security application of Face Recognition as well as Computational Neural network for Robotics and Sensor Systems and MVC frameworks like Django and Flask.  • Implemented Web based application using HTML, Angular JS, SQL services, Unix and Linux with software development tools like Eclipse, Jenkins.  • Preview SQLite Database table, calculating summary statistics in SQL, computing statistics across groups, Querying SQLite database with Python, designing, creating, organizing and modifying database.  • Experience with Requirement Management Tool (DOORS), version control tools- GIT, SVN, CVS, cloud platforms- Microsoft Azure, Google Cloud platform and Amazon Web Services like AWS EC2, S3, VPC, SES, ELB, RDS.  • Experienced with Communication and Networking Protocols for Wired and Wireless Communications, Ethernet, TCP/IP, UDP, HTTP, HTTPS, SSL, SSH - Networking as well as Serial Communication - RS-232, SPI, I2C. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Machine learning Software Engineer Strong Bridge - Seattle, WA July 2018 to Present Python  Roles and Responsibilities  • Developed Software application for Face forensic application for face detection and recognition using Python, Haar-Cascade Classifier, Histogram Oriented gradient, facial encoding and Facial feature detection using facial Landmarks.  • Performed data mining analysis for Large number of human face data on PyCharm, Jupyter and Google Colab cloud platform as well as worked with Oracle PL-SQL, Apache Cassandra database.  • Developed mathematical software model using python to identify real, fake and manipulated images.  • Worked on Machine Learning techniques with Python and R programming, deep reinforcement learning techniques and deep learning frameworks like TensorFlow, PyTorch to extract the features of human face.  • Implemented convolution neural network and modeled trainer and recognizer model to identify real and fake images.  • Gathered human face data with real-time video face recognition -trainer model and using local-binary patterns histograms (LBPH) as a recognizer.  • Identified real and Fake images with Generative adversarial network by analyzing generator-discriminator loss.  • Dealt with large amount of cloud data storage to Identify faces of same person from Image data storage and faces with similar features using Numpy, PIL, matplotlib, Pandas, OpenCV and Sci-kit learn Libraries.  • Implemented various Web based application protocol interface (API) to differentiate, compare and get the efficient output to detect the manipulated images and reenactment videos in real-time and static time condition.  • Designed 2D and 3D Model as well as performed depth estimation analysis for human face, object and Image.  • Utilized databased model, worked on interactive API like Amazon Recognition as well as Google cloud platform for faster processing and analysis of human faces.  • Used various version control tools like SVN, GIT and CVS.  Environment: Python, PyCharm, Google Colab, Jupyter, Oracle PL-SQL, TensorFlow, PyTorch, CNN, Deep Learning, Numpy, PIL, OpenCV, Pandas, matplotlib, API, SVN, GIT. Python Developer Florida Blue - Jacksonville, FL January 2017 to June 2018 Roles and Responsibilities  • Designed and Developed Software simulation for Self -Driving Car on Python and Machine Learning Platform  • involved in SDLC process like requirement analysis, designing, coding, testing, releasing and providing maintenance and documentation at each stage.  • Identified lane lines on the road from an image and real-time video, defined camera window using OPENCV, PIL library and Python programming  • Classified different traffic signs with Python, Machine Learning, deep learning frameworks like TensorFlow, PyTorch.  • Implementing data sampling, visualization and comparison of frequency distributions.  • Performed object tracking in relative with Kalman filters in Python using OpenCV library, sensor fusion.  • Performed Localization and Mapping, Markov localization, Motion models, particle filters.  • Software simulation of Car with path planner using prediction, Behavior planning & trajectory generation.  • Implemented Keras models, MNIST image recognition, Multiclass Classification, Computational Neural Network Models  • Implemented PID controller with Python, C++.  Environment: C++, Python, OpenCV, Deep Learning, Machine learning, SDLC, MNIST image recognition, TensorFlow, PyTorch, Keras. Python Developer PTC - Pune, Maharashtra May 2014 to December 2015 Roles and Responsibilities  • Designed and Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL as well as worked with Oracle PL-SQL. Built application logic using Python.  • Using PostgreSQL and implementing multi-column indexing.  • Used MYDQL for database access as well as used Python to extract information from XML files  • Participated in requirement gathering and worked closely with the architect in designing and modeling.  • Involved in gathering and analyzing system requirements as well as performed joins, group by and other operations in MapReduce using Python.  • Followed Agile Methodologies to manage full life-cycle development of the project.  • Involved in doing AGILE (SCRUM) practices and planning of sprint attending daily agile (SCRUM) meetings and SPRINT retrospective meetings to produce quality deliverables within time.  Environment: Python, Django Framework, PostgreSQL, Oracle PL-SQL, JavaScript, CSS, SQL, MySQL, LAMP, jQuery, Apache web server, Eclipse, Linux, Shell Scripting. Software Intern XAAR Jet AB October 2013 to March 2014 Roles and Responsibilities:  • Developed GUI for high-speed optical monitoring system to detect missing drops with CCD Camera on Industrial Inkjet Printhead with software development in Visual Basic, C++, Python on Linux.  • Conducted numerous tests to identify an operational window to monitor printing parameters of Inkjet printhead.  • Used Logic Regression method to continuously measure the efficiency of the print-jet head system.  • Worked on IDE like Pycharm and Eclipse, software development life cycle, frameworks like Django and flask and database such as MYSQL, Oracle.  Environment: C++, Python, Linux, PyCharm, MYSQL, Oracle, Django, Eclipse, Flask. Python Software Developer Mass Mutual Inc March 2012 to October 2013 Roles and Responsibilities:  • Experienced with full software development lifecycle, architecting scalable platforms, object-oriented programming, database design and agile methodologies  • Built Web application using Python, Django, Flask, JavaScript, and AJAX, HTML and template languages.  • Used Apache to deploy production site.  • Combining and transforming data with Pandas.  • Strong experience using Web Services and API's in python.  • Experience in using Design Patterns such as MVC and frameworks such as Django, Flask.  • Proficient in SQL databases MySQL, PostgreSQL, Oracle and MongoDB.  • Good knowledge in maintaining various version controls systems such as GIT, SVN, CVN and Source Tree.  • Experience in Application Development and Object-Oriented Programming Analysis and Design (OOAD).  • Experience object-oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, C++ and java.  • Experienced in working with various Python Integrated Development Environments like IDLE, PyCharm, Atom, Eclipse and Sublime Text.  Environment: Python, Django, Linux, HTML, CSS JavaScript, Ajax, JSON, jQuery, Angular Js, Mango Db, RISK management, TDD, SOAP, REST, MVC, GitHub. Software Developer - Python Beckon Dickinson - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2011 to October 2011 Roles and Responsibilities:  • The responsibilities included developing web-based applications, debugging and testing of the developed code.  • Installed and Configured Linux with Apache and Oracle  • Developed widgets for GUI using modules of Python as well as Parsers written in Python for extracting useful data from the design database.  • Used several Python libraries such as wxPython, NumPy, and matplotlib for representation or plotting of Network Analysis.  • Designed extensive additions to existing Python Web Application utilizing Service Oriented Architecture (SOA).  • Developed automation scripts to back up the old records by using Mongo DB export command and transferred the files to the backup machine with the help of ftplib.  • Developed Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Created the domains, application servers and load balancers using WebLogic 9.0.  • Experience in development of SOAP, RESTful web services for communicating with an external interface in the XML and JSON format  • Worked on Mango DB replication concept, maintained multiple copies of data in different database servers.  • Worked with team of developers on Python applications for RISK management and used GitHub as version controller.  Environment: Python, Django, Linux, HTML, JSON, Angular Js, Mango Db, RISK management, SOAP, REST, MVC, GitHub. Education Master's in Electrical & Computer Engineering New York Institute of Technology - New York, NY January 2016 to August 2018 Skills Amazon web services, Android studio, Apache spark, C++, Django, Python, Machine Learning, Algorithm, Computer Science, C Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Languages Python, R, C, C++, JAVA, Visual Basic, MATLAB, Embedded C, VHDL, Verilog  IDE  PyCharm, Anaconda, Eclipse, IntelliJ, Angular JS, Node JS, Google Colab, Jupyter, Tableau, Android Studio, Code Composer, LabVIEW, Quartus II, Xilinx Vivado Frameworks.    Libraries  Django, Flask, Caffe, PyTest, Apache Spark  Numpy, Matplotlib, PIL, OpenCV, Keras, TensorFlow, PyTorch, Pickle, Scipy, PyTable, PyQt, SQL Alchemy, wxPython Web technologies & Cloud Platforms    Databases  HTML, XML, Google Cloud Platform, Amazon web Services, Microsoft Azure  MYSQL, SQL server, Apache Cassandra ,Oracle Communication Protocols    Networking protocols I2C, SPI, USB, TCP, UDP, IP, ETHERNET, CAN, LIN, MOST, FlexRay, CANFD TCP/IP, UDP, HTTP, HTTPS, SSL, SSH