Application Developer Application <span class="hl">Developer</span> Application Developer - CIGNA Atlanta, GA • Competent Full Stack Java Developer with 8+ Years of experience in a highly dynamic and challenging environment. Strong understanding of design patterns, frameworks, APIs, project implementation methodologies. Operates with a strong sense of urgency and thrives in a fast-paced environment. Possess excellent oral and written communication skills and interpersonal skills.  • Expertise in implementing various well-known Object-Oriented/J2EE Design Patterns Singleton, prototype, Factory, Abstract Factory, DAO, MVC, Command, Decorator, Front Controller.  • Experienced in developing XML documents with XSDs /DTDs using DOM, SAX, JAX-B parsers.  • Strong skills with an understanding and development experience in Web Services, XML, SOAP, UDDI, J2EE and WS-Security.    • Experience in developing Multi-tier enterprise applications and web applications using various J2EE technologies including JDBC, JNDI, JMS and open source Frameworks in Struts, Spring, Hibernate ORM, iBatis/MyBatis, GUI plug-ins like Tiles Framework, validation plug-in like Validator Framework.  • Experience in writing and executing unit test cases using JUnit Testing Framework.  • Strong knowledge in creating Unified Modeling Language (UML) diagrams such as Use Case Diagrams, Activity Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams, Class Diagrams and Deployment Diagrams using Rational Rose, Microsoft Visio.  • Proficient in Web development using HTML, CSS, AJAX, J-Query, EXT-JS, JSON, JavaScript, Backbone.js and Bootstrap  • Expertise in using Apache-ANT and writing build scripts (build.xml).  • Expertise in using Apache-Maven for building applications for its dependency, jars and repository manage met.  • Experience in implementing Web Services based on Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) using SOAP, Restful Web Services, JAX-WS, UDDI, WSDL, WADL.  • Extensive experience in working on IDEs like Eclipse, Net Beans, WSAD, RAD.  • Expertise in configuring Oracle Transportation Management as per the client requirement.  • Good exposure with Application servers middleware technologies like, Web Servers like WebSphere, WebLogic, JBoss and Apache Tomcat  • Expertise in logging using Log4j.  • Experience in writing code using corticon rules engine.  • Experience in working with various databases like Oracle, PostgreSQL, MS SQL Server and strong knowledge in SQL, PL/SQL, Stored Procedures, Functions, Triggers and Cursors.  • Experience working with Performance Tuning engineers in analyzing the issues that are hindering the performance of the application.  • Flexible, dynamic and self-motivated with a flair of achieving success and attention to detail, timeline sensitive and goal oriented.  • Ability to work with business functions to understand business requirements and develop technical specifications  • Excellent communication, Team work, inter-personnel and presentation skills, fast learner and organized self-starter. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Application Developer CIGNA - Atlanta, GA October 2017 to Present Project- e-Wellness Care Management System  e-Wellness Care Management System, helps organizations renew the health, energy, and performance of their employees and members, and offers an integrated portfolio of solutions to cover a broad spectrum of population health - from wellness and prevention, to behavioral health, to chronic disease support.  Responsibilities:  • Creating prototypes, testing of design attributes and coordinating with other team members in accomplishing overall objectives.  • Reviewing the test plan with test manager, UAT and integration testing.  • Used Struts framework in the development of Server side components.  • Used Hibernate, Object/relational mapping techniques for the mapping of data.  • Implemented the application using the Struts framework.  • Involved in creating Hibernate annotations and POJO objects.  • Research business needs; industry trends and opportunities.  • Thin client rendering: HTML, Tag Libs, JavaScript, XML, JSP and Servlets.  • Eclipse used as Java IDE tool for creating JSPs, Servlets, EJBs, and XML.  • Coded Maven build scripts to build and deploy the application on Web logic.  • Developed the statistics graph using JSP, Applets and Swing in a multithreaded architecture.  • Implementation of ePro & CCDR interfaces using spring batch technology.  • Implementation of back end and middle tier layers using spring technologies.  • Worked on Agile Scrum methodology with 2-week sprints, attended milestone meetings, planning meetings, and very good knowledge in Rally.  Environment: Java, J2EE, JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, JBoss, Web Services, Hibernate, Spring MVC, REST full Web service. Full Stack Java Developer National Institute of Healthcare - Rockville, MD July 2015 to September 2017 NITAAC is a federal Executive Agent authorized by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) to administer three Government-Wide Acquisition Contracts (GWACs) for information technology procurement. CIO-SP3, CIO-SP3 Small Business and CIO-CS can be used by any federal civilian or DoD agency to acquire information technology products, services and solutions.  eGOS is an unique and easy to use system for developing, competing and managing requirements under the CIO-SP3, CIO-SP3SB and CIO-CS GWACs. The system handles hundreds of Request for Proposals (RFPs) and thousands of Request for Quotes (RFQs). NITAAC has expanded its support including its new full-service Assisted Acquisition program, and is one of three OMB mandatory sources for laptop and desktop buys through our Government-wide Strategic Solutions (GSS) program.    Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed end to end functionalities of the RFQ response, TRP Submission process, displaying quotes, and other major functionalities of the application  • Was responsible for the design of the CIO-CS integration into the eGOS application  • Meeting with the client to understand the requirements to develop the CIO-CS integration into eGOS application  • Have developed functionality to process and store millions of IT products data into the system. Implemented functionality to validate the products before inserting them into the database.  • Implemented functionality for diverting the application to custom page when tomcat is unavailable and when the page not found  • Responsible for maintaining, fixing defects adding new functionalities to the eGOS web application  • Designed MVC architecture and developed user interface components using DHTML, HTML, Servlets, javascript, ajax, Angular.js, HTML  • Involved in developing, deploying e-GOS web application using java, angular.js, spring, Hibernate, JPA, Junit, MS SQL  • Implemented design patterns and Server side development - Factory and Service Locater patterns, and the business logic using Spring DI Service components.  • Developed Web service modules based on SOA architecture using SOAP  • Responsible for design, develop, specifying object/relational-mapping and testing the data layer components using Hibernate  • Integrated Spring AOP, spring (Dependency Injection) among different layers of an application). Configured and accessed Hibernate with Spring IOC.  • Implemented the business layer by using Hibernate with Spring DAO and developed mapping files and POJO java classes using ORM tool.  • Wrote various Hibernate Queries using Hibernate Query Language (HQL) and hibernate criterion queries to execute queries against database.  • Developed complex service components for Data Access Layer, DAO classes to interact with backend using Java and Hibernate Framework  • Designed and developed email notification functionality using apache commons mail and velocity templates  • Implemented Java and J2EE Design patterns like Business Delegate and Data Transfer Object (DTO), Data Access Object and Service Locator  • Developed code to send automatic emails to customers and contractors using spring, velocity framework and Microsoft schedulers.  • Created batch files to run the schedulers on UAT and production using Microsoft batch schedulers  • Implemented application specific exception handling & logging frame work using Log4j.  • Extensively worked in SDLC methodologies such as Agile process  • Installed, configured SonarQube and continuously integrated the issues  Environment: Java 1.8, J2ee, Servlet, JQuery, JSON, CSS, Angular.js, JavaScript, PL/SQL, MYSQL 5.6/5.7, Spring Batch 2.1.8, Spring Boot, Spring MVC, Spring Integration, Spring injection & annotations, Hibernate, XML, XSD, ANT, Unix, Apache Tomcat, SOA, Restful Web Services, velocity framework, Microsoft batch schedulers, MyEclipse Luna Release (4.4.0), JIRA, Sonar, Apache Tomcat, Jenkins, Maven, JUNIT, Log4J, SonarQube, Subversion Java Developer SunTrust - Orlando, FL December 2013 to June 2015 SunTrust provides news of interest to shareholders, clients and the general public and also provides loans. In order to process the credit/ loan application, CAPS will interact with multiple internal systems and also communicates external third party services. It provides following built-in functionalities Account opening, Authentication, Verification, Identification, Risk Management, Credit Scoring, Pre-Approval, Email communication during fulfillment process.    Responsibilities:  • Used Iterative methodology that included iterative application development, stand up meetings and customer reporting backlogs.  • Involved in the development of the back end the application using Struts, Hibernate and Web Services.  • Used Spring MVC framework for Dependency injection and Spring Core.  • Implemented Persistence layer using Hibernate ORM and writing SQL queries based on Hibernate criteria API.  • Used f Framework as middle tier application framework, persistence strategy using spring support for Hibernate for integrating with database.  • Used Web logic application server for Oracle database.  • Implemented JAX-RS (Restful) Web Services using JERSEY Framework.  • Applied SOA concepts to implement Web Services integration  • Creating unit test strategy, preparing test environments and test cases.  • Monitored the error logs using Log4j and fixed the problems.  • The batch framework made heavy use of XML/XSLT transforms.  • Used Ant scripts to fetch, build and deploy the application to development environment.  • Used PL/SQL to write Stored Procedures, Triggers and SQL queries.  • Used Eclipse IDE for writing code.  • Creating JUnit test case design logic and implementation throughout application.  • Providing technical expertise to project team covering application design, database design and performance tuning activities  • Following Agile software methodology for project development.  • Used FTP/WSFTP PRO to upload the necessary files and ear files to the development server and created Connection Pooling and Data Source in WebSphere Application portal server.    Environment: Java1.6, J2EE, Spring, Hibernate3.0(JPA), XML, JUnit, Oracle10g, Log4J1.2.1, Eclipse, Unix, Subversion, ANT1.7.1, Agile, Web service, SOAP, REST, SIMS, JAXRS(REST), SQL Developer, WebSphere Software Developer SPi Global - Chennai, Tamil Nadu December 2011 to November 2013 Responsibilities:  • Redesigned the existing site and to create new interfaces.  • Developed HTML prototypes and ready XHTML documents with CSS style sheets.  • Designed dynamic client-side JavaScript codes to build web forms and simulate process for web application, page navigation and form validation.  • Followed the Agile and Scrum development methodologies.  • Used JQuery core library functions for the logical implementation part at client side for all the application.  • Did Cross - Browser coding, for making pages compatible will all browsers.  • Designed Banners, Icons and Logos.  • Experience in User Acceptance Testing (UAT) and Accessibility Testing.  • Produced GUI prototypes for business logic presentations.  • Worked closely with system analyst to understand the technical requirements of the projects.    Environment: HTML, CSS, XHTML, JavaScript, JQuery, Agile and Windows. Education Bachelors of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science JNTU Skills Java, J2EE, JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, JBoss, Web Services, Hibernate, Spring MVC, REST full Web service. (8 years)