Software Development Manager <span class="hl">Software</span> Development Manager Software Developer - Storm Power Components Memphis, TN Software Developer with strong knowledge of real-time systems, financial and accounting services, factory management systems, and  commercial software development; skilled at developing complex solutions; possessing strong  creative thinking skills, high energy, and integrity. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Development Manager Hardhat Inc. - Memphis, TN September 2018 to Present Managed a C# / SQL development team building a job-cost accounting solution and field service and construction erp solutions. Implemented TFS source control and time management systems, SCRUM methodologies and practices, AGILE workflow, and developer accountability systems. Assisted in assessing current projects and implementing project management processes to improve deployment times on software updates. Implemented automatic bug reporting through TFS API allowing for a more streamlined issue tracking system, as well as QA/Testing processes.    - Optimized database architectures to provide data in shorter time more reliably.  - Met with other department heads to discuss and plan upcoming milestones.  - Modified existing software to correct errors, adapt to new hardware/data structures, and improve performance.   - Identified and suggested new technologies and tools for enhancing product value and increasing team productivity.   - Oversaw major new enhancements to existing software systems.   - Assessed costs and risks associated with developing new features and products,   - Utilized MSSQL for data manipulation and maintenance, CRUD operations, query optimizations, and database architecture.   - Created custom API interfaces with other software integrations.   - Planned, Executed, and Maintained projects through TFS & GitHub utilizing SCRUM, and AGILE practices.   - Worked with IT support reps to align solutions to ongoing issues.  - Managed junior and senior developers, coaching as needed to ensure they possessed the necessary skills to meet milestones and if not, planned training.  - Performed code review with team members to ensure code fell within acceptable guidelines and contained the necessary amount of documentation.  - Implemented peer testing and code review to ensure that team members remained informed on projects that might impact their work. IT Technician Storm Power Components - Decatur, TN January 2013 to April 2018 - Kept systems up-to-date through operating systems upgrades, security patches, and software upgrades.   - Monitored networking equipment and servers,   - Assisted with the design, implementation, and ongoing support of new software and features.   - Monitored web performance, network availability, and security.   - Oversaw troubleshooting for system errors.   - Provided helpdesk support utilizing strong verbal and written communication skills.   - Provided technical support either by phone, remote access or site visits as needed.   - Responded to IT issues using ticketing system,   - Evaluated connectivity issues, equipment, and software.   - Set up equipment for new users.   - Performed scheduled data backups.   - Installed and updated network system improvements as needed.   - Assisted with Servers, LAN/WAN technologies, computer repair/troubleshooting software, networks, virus protection & prevention, Wi-Fi technology, and more Software Developer Storm Power Components - Decatur, TN January 2013 to April 2018 Providing C# and SQL development for ERP system (Syspro) in OEM manufacturing. Solutions ranged from tools for manufacturing floor, purchasing, inventory,   production control, and reporting across all levels of enterprise. Built several in-house apps including a Defect Reporting application, a Management-Employee communications application, Customer-Service order expedite application, and a report manager with a custom report designer. Provided a wide range of SQL based support including query-based reports, database design/creation/maintenance, and ERP database work.    - Built, tested, documented, and deployed scalable, highly available, and modular software products utilizing VB.Net, C#, SQL, WinForms, WPF, MVVM, XML, JSON, Web APIs, and EF  - Provided regular training on all custom software solutions.  - Designed and developed transactional and analytical data structures.   - Modified existing software to correct errors, adapt to new hardware/data structures, and improve performance.   - Identified and suggested new technologies and tools for enhancing product value and increasing team productivity.   - Oversaw major new enhancements to existing software systems.   - Assessed costs and risks associated with developing new features and products,   - Utilized SQL for data manipulation and maintenance, creation of stored procedures, creation of triggers, and database architecture.   - Created and maintained analytical reports of company data utilizing SQL with custom UX/UI designs (Charts, Graphs, PivotTables)   - Created interfaces with services and data bridges with other in house software,   - Planned, designed, and implemented a custom ZPL label design & print software.   - Planned, Executed, and Maintained projects through TFS & GitHub utilizing SCRUM, Waterfall, and AGILE practices.   - Worked with IT support reps to align solutions to live issues. Education High School Diploma in design Meigs County High School - Decatur, TN 2007 Skills Vb.Net (5 years), C# (6 years), .NET (6 years), SQL (6 years), Database Administration (5 years), Visual Studio (6 years), Asp.Net (3 years), Winforms (6 years), WPF (4 years), Javascript (2 years), Ajax (2 years), Technical Writing (5 years), Technical Support (5 years), Troubleshooting (5 years), Training (5 years), SDLC (5 years), Business Analysis (6 years), Software Development (6 years), Team Foundation Server (4 years), Github (4 years), SVN (5 years), Software QA (6 years), HTML (4 years), CSS3 (5 years), ADO.NET (6 years), ZPL (5 years), Agile (4 years), Scrum (4 years), Entity Framework (2 years), XML (5 years), JSON (4 years), API (4 years), Active Directory (5 years), Windows Server (5 years), IIS (3 years), Help Desk, It Specialist, Desktop Support, Information Technology Certifications/Licenses MTA Software Development Fundamentals June 2017 to Present