Xamarin Developer Xamarin <span class="hl">Developer</span> Xamarin Developer - Cummins Columbus, IN ? Over 9+ Years of experience in developing Web and Mobile applications.  ? Strong experience in developing applications using IOS SDK, Android SDK, MONO SDK, ASP.NET, VB.NET, ADO.NET, HTML, JavaScript.  ? Very strong experience on Microsoft .NET based windows Applications and Web Development using C#.NET ? Collaborated with UI/ UX team developing wire frames and prototypes using various 3rd party tools.  ? Very good experience working on Agile Methodology.  ? Have been involved in the whole SDLC process from designing to documenting.  ? Expert in doing POCs (Proof of Concepts).  ? Very good experience in gathering and analyzing requirements from domain experts.  ? Experience in integrating third party SDK and libraries.  ? Deep experience in Source Code Management using tools like Git, which is an Open Source Version Control/ Source Control System.  ? Also experienced using other tools like Source Tree for version/ Source controlling, which provides graphical interface for Git repositories.  ? Very good experience using Jenkins to achieve Continuous Integration and Continuous deployment.  ? Experience in Test Driven Development (TDD), which ensures the code is in right place.  ? Experience in using SQLite and SQL Server.  ? Experience integrating web services (REST and SOAP).  ? Extensively worked on various design patterns like Singleton, Delegation, Façade, Decorator, MVC, and MVVM in various projects. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Xamarin Developer Cummins - Columbus, IN November 2017 to Present The Cummins mobile application is used by the customers to track and monitor various events captured through Power Command for generator sets, transfer switches, sensors and output controls on Mobile. The project is intended to enhance the existing iOS application and develop a new android version to work with the existing services.  The Power Command CloudTM app is the best way to ensure your generator is available when needed. See and receive information about generator, Transfer Switch and power system anytime, anywhere. With an easy-to-use and intuitive mobile interface, it sends notifications and gives instant access to your equipment enabling real-time monitoring and control so you make the right decisions, right way - thus minimizing downtime and maximizing power systems performance.    App Features: ? Real time notifications.  ? Equipment status at a glance.  ? Monitoring.  ? Remotely start, stop genset and reset faults.  ? Ability to manage multiple assets and locations.  ? Supports Multiple Languages. (English, Spanish, French, Portuguese & Chinese)    Responsibilities: ? Used C# in Xamarin to create mobile application.  ? Extensive mobile UI design and implementation experience, including prototyping.  ? Built native IOS and Android applications using Android SDK, IOS SDK in Xamarin.  ? Created user controls and defined XAML elements into the UI for developing windows apps ? Added the elements needs to UI to work with the app and Added the functionality of the app to see it running for the windows App ? Design responsive web app, iOS, Droid and other emerging mobile applications.  ? Used MVVM features such as data binding and testability ? Experience in Xamarin Insight, Xamarin Test Cloud and Hockey App ? Used Xamarin Insights for analytics and error handling.  ? Implemented RESTful and SOAP Websevices to retrieve data from remote server.  ? Used Oauth2.0 Webservices using Xamarin.auth ? Capability to separate and use photoshop resources for various iPhone and Android gadget resolutions ? Involved in the Integration testing for the application.  ? Worked on automated UI Acceptance testing using Xamarin Test Cloud ? Experience on using Xamarin.UI Test framework for writing own automated tests.  ? Used Microsoft Azure Mobile Services as backend for mobile application.  ? Implemented SQLite database with Xamarin forms to save necessary information into device local database.  ? Experience working with IoT technology using development kits for creating 3G cellular/ Wi-Fi connected products like Photon(particle), Raspberry Pi and developing firmware code to work with sensors ? Implemented extreme programming by using fast paced agile methodology, involving in task completion, user stories and Iterations.  ? Designed the architecture for the application to be cross platform compatible.  ? Developed applications for both Android and iOS.  ? Developed barcode scanning application using Xamarin. Forms, and SQLite ? Implemented RESTful services for web service calls to the database.  ? Developed data entry application with camera integration using Xamarin. Forms, and SQLite ? Developed test automation framework for mobile application development using Xamarin.  ? Utilized Azure Mobile services as back-end of mobile applications.    Environment: Xamarin, Xcode, Android SDK, C#, Visual Studio .NET 2013, .NET framework 4.0 & 4.5, Xamarin, XCode, Azure web services Xamarin Developer Hertz Corporation - Tulsa, OK September 2015 to October 2017 The Hertz Corporation is an American car rental company with international locations in 145 countries worldwide. Hertz is the largest U.S. car rental company by sales. In 2012 Hertz brought Dollar Thrifty car Rental Company and expanded its rental services. We DTAG team is an Ecommerce team that supported Dollar Thrifty projects and com's. I was the one, who supported the current Dollar.com and worked on all its enhancements, which include DTG to Points, E-Consent projects, and on integration with Hertz systems.    Responsibilities: ? Designed the architecture for the application to be cross platform compatible.  ? Developed IOS Application using C#, with Xamarin.  ? Worked on Azure Mobile Services, using it as a backend for Mobile Applications.  ? Also developed applications for IOS with Xcode using C#.  ? Working on development of applications for Android, with Xamarin.  ? Developed location Services using Xamarin.  ? Implemented Entity Framework to maintain the connection of mobile applications with cloud.  ? Used localization techniques in Xamarin for data translation.  ? Developed the Back-end of the application utilizing Visual Studio ? Implemented extreme programming by using fast paced agile methodology, involving in task completion, user stories and Iterations.  ? Developed applications for IOS and Android using Xamarin forms to share average code of 80 -90% between the platforms.  ? Used MVVM features such as data binding and views are written in XAML.  ? Followed HIG guidelines for better output of UI.  ? Custom renderers are written for Entry picker button frame controls etc. and developed resource dictionary for styles ? Implemented RESTful and SOAP Webservices to retrieve data from remote server.  ? Involved in the Integration testing for the application.  ? Having knowledge on automated UI Acceptance testing using Xamarin Test Cloud    Environment: Visual Studio .NET 2013, .NET Framework 4.0 & 4.5, Xamarin, Xcode, Azure Mobile Services, IOS, Android, Entity Framework Delivery Software Engineer Allianz Process February 2011 to May 2014 This is an internal project which is designed to manage cab bookings for Employees. This project is a Web Application project where Employees are allowed to log in and schedule, cancel or reschedule their cab timing, address and other details.    Responsibilities: ? Involved in Requirement Analysis.  ? Designed Graphical User Interface (GUI) using ASP .Net Web Forms, HTML JavaScript, CSS classes.  ? Created reusable user controls to use across the application.  ? Implemented SQL Queries and Stored Procedures.  ? Involved in development of new features and testing of functionality.  ? Creating LINQ enabled database layer using API such as LINQ to SQL.  ? Used Team Foundation Server for version control.  ? Involved in weekly client meetings, presentations, ? Used JavaScript for validation.  ? Used Cascading Style Sheets, to give the website a common style.    Environment: Visual Studio 2008, C#, ASP. NET, 3.5 .net framework, JavaScript, SQL Server 2005, LINQ to SQL. Application Developer Creative Global Solutions August 2009 to December 2010 Creative Global Systems is a leading provider of end-to-end IT services and BPO solutions. The company has a client-centric delivery model that combines local, senior, on-site resources with the cost, scale, and quality advantages of off-shore operations. This website will be used by company executives to maintain employee records holding information regarding designation, working hours, pay scale and vacations for client billing & internal purposes    Responsibilities: • Programmed Data access layer using ADO.NET and C# which involved strong OOP concepts.  • Programmed SQL stored procedures and involved in database design and data modeling.  • Designed and developed custom defined reports such as Employee Weekly Summary Reports using SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS) and deployed them on SharePoint Portal    Environment: ASP.NET, ADO.NET, XML, Office SharePoint Server (MOSS), SharePoint Portal Server (SPS) 2003, Windows SharePoint Services (WSS) 3.0/2.0, XSL/XSLT, UML, JavaScript, HTML/DHTML, SQL Server 2005/2000. Education Bachelor's Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information Technical Skills:    Programming Languages: C#, .NET, C, Objective-C, Java  Tools: Xamarin, Eclipse, Visual Studio 2013/2012/2010/2008  Web Technologies: HTML, HTML5, JavaScript, NodeJS, CSS, Bootstrap, AJAX, jQuery, jQuery Mobile  RDBMS: My SQL Server 2012/2008/2005, Oracle 10g, SQL Server, SQLite  Operating System: Mac OS X, Windows 7, Windows 8, Windows 10  Middleware: WCF, ADO.NET 4.0/3.5/3.0/2.0, WebServices, WebAPI  Testing Tools: Selenium, Appium  Cloud Based Technologies: Azure, Salesforce  Bug Tracking Technologies: Xamarin Insights, Bugzilla  Source Control Tools: Git, SVN