Senior Android Developer Senior Android <span class="hl">Developer</span> Rohanreddy Thummala - Android Developer Boston, MA • 10 years of experience in the IT field in Software Development  • 8 years of experience in Android App Development  • 14 Published Android Apps in Google Play Store  • Coordinate team of software engineers to complete required tasks.  • Expertise of advanced software engineering concepts: object-oriented design, hypermedia, device management, semi-native & HTML5 technologies, and memory management.  • Regularly provide constructive feedback to team members so they can continuously grow individually.  • Have a portfolio of shipped production level apps used by a large number of users.  • A sound understanding of HTTP and REST-style web services.  • Builds new features to enhance the UX for consumers.  • Experience prototyping mobile experiences and passion for mobile user experience and design.  • Work with Product Management and Delivery Teams to translate requirements to tasks for deliverables.  • Ensures quality with test-driven development (TDD), Continuous Integration, Code Reviews and Best Practices.  • Proficiency in Java. Worked with JDK (Collections, Generics, Networking, Core Java). Understands Java concurrency, memory management.  • Created robust automated unit/functional test suites and deployment scripts, using test-driven-development (TDD).  • Interact very closely with both the Product and the Design teams.  • Solid relational DBMS skills using MySQL, PostgreSQL or other DBMS products.  • Deep understanding of Android SDK/NDK and device driver development.  • Experience in software development processes; Test-Driven Development, Continuous Integration, Version Control.  • Experience developing web services using XML-RPC, SOAP, or REST approaches.  • Ability to deal with ambiguity, and willingness to help debug difficult issues.  • Strong understanding of Android framework, best practices, and design patterns.  • Have been the single point of contact for all Android-related matters, heavily interfacing with the Product team and Marketing team.  • Work with other departments to achieve cross-functional goals to satisfy customer expectations. Mentor less experienced team members on technical matters.  • Goal oriented, focused on results, deliverables, and client satisfaction.  • Skillful using a variety of libraries for asynchronous HTTP request such as Volley and Retrofit.  • Experienced in using the main ViewGroups provided by the Android SDK: FrameLayout, LinearLayout, RelativeLayout, CoordinatorLayout.  • Excellent in modeling and translating business models and requirements to use cases and diagrams.  • Excellent communication skills and passion for mentoring on best practices.  • Broad knowledge of many third party libraries to speed up results during the development phase.  • Use of multiple MBaaS (Mobile Backend as a service) and cloud integration tools like Parse, Firebase, Google Cloud Services, Amazon Web Services.  • Experience in various programming methodologies including Pair Programming.  • Conducted business and technical Knowledge Transfer sessions for new recruits.  • Experience with third party APIs and web services like Volley, Picasso, Facebook, Twitter, YouTube Player and Surface View.  • Strong knowledge of the basic Android components: Activities, Services, Content Providers and Broadcast Receivers.  • Outstanding knowledge of the Android frameworks and architecture.  • Implementation of Material Design guidelines, Fragments, Layouts, Animations, Compound Views, Custom Views, ListView and RecyclerView  • Understand the importance of implementing a user-friendly and pleasing user interface  • Strong bases with Object-Oriented Paradigms (polymorphism, method overflowing, inheritance, data binding), using strongly typed languages for more than ten years.  • Hands-on development in all the software-driven cycle, such as requirement gathering, design, analysis, coding, testing and code review.  • Experience in coaching and mentoring young and experienced developers with different strengths and goals.  • Skilled working with SOAP and RESTful web services using Retrofit, Volley, and OkHttp.  • Design patterns enthusiast and familiar with MVC, MVVC, MVP, Factory, Singleton, Decorator, Multiton, Object pool, Adapter, Bridge, Composite, and Iterator. Work Experience Senior Android Developer Santander Bank - Boston, MA November 2018 to Present https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.sovereign.santander&hl=en_US      The Santander Retail Mobile Application is a customer-facing mobile banking application, which has a user interface (UI) to collect feedback and ratings from customers.      •    Analyzed requirements and determined the technical feasibility of development and implementation of these requirements as new features or enhancements to the Android mobile app.  ·        Identified, prioritized and executed tasks in the Android software development life cycle.  ·        Perform gap analysis on backend services to achieve desired functionality.  ·        Worked with architecture team to propose new Android architecture and frameworks.  ·        Participated in the creation of technical design documents and data flow charts per business requirements.  ·        Participated in design review to analyze proposed solution and provide review comments.  ·        Developed the modules/components according to requirements.  ·        Developed flowcharts, layouts and documentation to identify requirements and solutions.  ·        Assigned tasks to team members and reviewed work to ensure quality standards, while mentoring developers on quality standards and best practices.  ·        Android development in Android Studio with coding in both Java and Kotlin.  ·        Used SQLite for data persistent and user account info.  ·        Threading with Volley, Dagger2 for dependency injection and use of various Jetpacks frameworks.  ·        Integration of Google Analytics for tracking user behavior.  ·        Firebase Crash Reporting implemented for crash analytics.  ·        Use Gradle for build management system.  ·        Followed Clean Architecture design.  ·        Use of Espresso and Junit for automation testing.  ·        Jenkins CI for continuous integration set up for build automation.  ·        Postman and Charles Proxy for API debugging tools.  ·        Implementation of features like Touch Id, PIN, OAuth, SSO, etc.  ·        Coordinated with QA teams for module and application test scenarios to validate feature functioning, UAT testing and systems integration.  ·        Debugged and fixed defects found in continuous integration of iterative application builds.  ·        Followed TDD approach and pre-defined checklist during code reviews to ensure defined coding standards and practices are followed across all the teams.  ·        Ensured compliance with the documented software processes and procedures throughout the life cycle of software products         ·        Participated in release planning and deployment of released build/version  ·        Managed version control, configuration management and continuous integration of all modules and features developed in Jenkins  ·        Ensured software is up-to-date with the latest technologies.  ·        Followed Agile/ Scrum methodology for software development and reporting update and progress.  ·        Provided regular updates on the development, testing and release progress during daily standup, sprint planning, and demo meetings.  ·        Tracked and recorded progress of development tasks, defects using tools such as JIRA, Confluence, etc.     Summary of Technologies:   Android Studio, Java, Kotlin, JetPack, Gradle, SQLite, XML, JSON, Volley, Dagger2, Android SDK, Espresso API, JUnit, Mockio, Unit Tests, GitLab, JIRA, Confluence Senior Android Developer Costco Wholesale - Issaquah, WA May 2018 to November 2018 https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.costco.app.android    The Costco Mobile App is an existing shopping app which we have completely revised to make it easier for members to use, and to include newer services and features. Responsible for two main sections of the Android application:  1. Implemented new addon feature in the Android mobile app where he/she can access the Membership Card.  2. Added Pharmacy feature where user can transfer their prescriptions to their desired warehouse.    • Feature development based on MVVM architecture.  • Binding JavaScript code to Android code using @JavaScript Interface.  • Volley for the network calls.  • TabLayout to display multiple cards for the user and to switch between them.  • Used Room Dao to cache the data from the JavaScript Interface.  • AsyncTask to download the data and save it to the database.  • Used Junit to write the unit test cases for the membership card feature.  • Embedded the 3rd party LeadTools SDK into the Android app to generate the GS-1 Barcode for the membership card.  • Integrated Pharmacy SDK into the app.  • Broadcast Receivers to communicate between the Pharmacy SDK and the app.  • Integrated Firebase to support push notifications for the pharmacy module.  • Added biometric sign-in to the pharmacy module login section of the Android app.  • Using Google Play Console to create a closed alpha track and release the beta version of the app including membership card feature within the organization.  • Used design patterns (like Factory, Builder, Singleton) in the code appropriately.  • Used Handler to do work on off the main thread.  • Involved in weekly Sprint grooming method to discuss UI design, requirement analysis and development.  • Used Material Design to implement the UI of the App.    Summary of Technologies:   Android Studio , GitHub, Jenkins, Hockey App, ADB(Android Debug Bridge), Android Profiler, Android Lint, Android Device Monitor, Layout Inspector, Gradle, Junit , Espresso Senior Android Developer DirecTV Now - Los Angeles, CA December 2016 to May 2018 https://www.amazon.com/AT-T-Services-Inc-DIRECTV/dp/B073PLVJ1P  https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.att.mobile.dfw    DIRECTV NOW? is your NEW standalone streaming service for Live TV and On Demand entertainment. Enjoy local news, sports, events, and shows as they air. Your favorite TV series and movies can be accessed anywhere, anytime.  DFW (Don’t Fight Web) is a supporting DIRECTV App where the user can download the app and enjoy a variety of entertainment. Using this App, the user can watch Live TV, catch up on the latest movies, TV Shows on demand, and schedule recordings on their DVR. The user can use Mobile devices, Tablets, FireTV, Apple TV to pause, play and rewind a program in progress.  • Responsible for supporting the development of the feature/functionality of the app.   • This included retrieving, saving and updating the playlist i.e., DVR (Dynamic Video Recording) to and fro from the cloud for mobile, tablet and Fire TV.  • Used Volley for back-end network calls and SQLite Database for caching.  • Developed unit test cases for functional testing of the Android app.  • Used Android Studio for Android app development, and Junit and Mockito to write unit test cases.  • Created the UI for the CDVR (Cloud DVR) recordings for DVR, tablet and FireTV using RecyclerView, TextView, and custom views from Android Framework.  • Created code fixes for the defects related to the functionality developed using  • Java and merged the code using Git version control tool.  • Made enhancements to DVR recordings.   • Enhanced navigation to detail page (Common Info) so that when the recording title is clicked, the user can see a description of the recorded content.  • Enhanced the playing of the content so that when user taps on the recording image (one touch play)  • Enhancement that enabled user to click “Work” on the record series options to record the entire series from Common Info/ Video Player by using EventBus which triggers the network calls.  • Participated in cross-functional team meetings, contributing with exchange of information among the teams for better and robust quality software products.  • The team used HipChat for team communication and Confluence for documentation purposes.  • For work tracking purposes and for development of related tickets and acceptance criteria the team used JIRA and Kanban boards.   • The team used Agile Scrum as our development methodology.  • Used Google Location API to access the user’s current location.  • Used Dagger for Dependency Injection, and Android Binding for two-way binding.  • Based development of the Android application on MVVM architectural pattern.  • Used Jenkins for continuous integration and continuous delivery.  • Used Leanback Library’s Widgets (VerticalGridView, ControlBar,TitleView)in developing the UI for TV.  • Used Zeplin as a reference to UI Screens.    Summary of Technologies: Android Debug Bridge (ADB), Android Profiler, Android Lint, Android Device Monitor, Layout Inspector, Gradle, Dagger, Junit , Mockito, Espresso, Jacaco Code Coverage Library Senior Android Developer CNN - Atlanta, GA January 2016 to December 2016 https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.cnn.mobile.android.phone  • Managed the module that handles the communication with the web service.  • Ability to manage competing priorities in a complex environment and maintain high productivity.  • Joined a team of ten Android Java developers.  • Strong C/C++, Java and Android development experience  • Reused some of the earlier versions of the application code.  • Implement EventBus to manage most of the app event process interfacing.  • Expertise of advanced software engineering concepts: object-oriented design, hypermedia, device management, semi-native & HTML5 technologies, and memory management.  • Proposed a front-end architecture using the Model View ViewModel design pattern.  • Presented findings report on the strategy for implementing Android Wear.  • Implemented Picasso to use Asynchronous networking and image loading.  • Worked closely with the Android and iOS development teams for the web service API definition.  • Tweaked the application for better performance using Dynamic Fragments.  • Created and debugged many Business Rules.  • Utilized a Bottom Tab to switch quickly between application activities and fragments  • Utilized Git as version control tool as source control management system.  • Conducted frequent code review activities with the members of the development team  • Used native and third party technologies to optimize the app functionality including Volley, Material Design, Google Cloud Messaging API, Robotium, Robolectric, JUnit, SQLite, Twitter API, Glide, Shared Preferences, Google Maps API, Java, MixPanel, EventBus, Git, Travis.  • Acted as direct interface with client and participate in overall development activities including requirements elaboration, design, and coding.  • Interact very closely with both the Product and the Design teams.  • Use of Hudson as continuous integration tool, scheduling the application  • Created instances of SyncAdapters, Content Providers, and Loaders to update the User Interface on every data change on the server side.  • Experience working on-site and off-site teams and management.  • Implemented a SyncAdapter to generate an Observer pattern in the User Interface so it can get notified every time the data in the content provider changes.  • Implemented the SquareUP API for processing online payments.  • Mentored two new developers about the new app structure and coding standards of this application. Senior Android Developer ESPN - Bristol, CT July 2014 to January 2016 https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.espn.score_center  https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.espn.fantasy.lm.football  • Guide the Product and QA team on the nuances of Android devices.  • Generated technical documentation such as App Architecture and RESTful API definitions.  • Used Jackson to parse JSON files.  • Implemented a Content Provider with an SQLite database as a cache with Schematic.  • Led multiple teams in every step of the software development lifecycle.  • Increased the app security by obfuscating the code and implementing encryption libraries such as SQLCipher and Spongy Castle to secure credit card and personal data on preferences and SQLite database.  • Documented and demonstrated solutions by developing documentation, flowcharts, layouts, diagrams, charts, code comments and clear code.  • Implemented automated testing with Robolectric.  • Designed SQLite database schema for implementing persistent data storage.  • Implemented dependency injection like Butter knife for easy mocking and testing.  • Helped the back end team during the design of the new Restful API for the mobile platform.  • Attended the SCRUM meetings to track app development progress.  • Worked with the back end team to improve the restful API performance.  • Implemented Google Maps over a web view using the web API.  • Managed the build creation with a Jenkins instance hosted on a private server.  • Mentored two junior developers on Android best practices and coding standards  • Ensure software created and released conforms to quality requirements by accurately writing and executing test plans.  • Aid Product Owner and Stakeholder to define requirements.  • Implemented the application in Eclipse IDE.  • Planned and conducted the requirement gathering sessions  • Worked on the Android Wear optimization to open new market possibilities.  • Worked with Dagger for dependency injection to develop clean, maintainable code.  • Work in an Agile development environment with peer engineers on a daily basis to scope, develop and deliver a software experience that realizes the product strategy.  • Used the Dalvik Debug Monitor Server (DDMS) for debugging and testing.  • Experience with embedded local storage solutions such as SQLite. Senior Android Developer Yelp - San Francisco, CA March 2013 to June 2014 https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.yelp.android  https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.yelp.android.biz  • Added Hugo support as a third party logging library to receive debugging information.  • Created Services, AsyncTasks to perform update information check to avoid freezing the user interface.  • Managed memory leaks in debug builds with LeakCanary.  • Design, develop, and document application and framework code in Java and other object-oriented programming languages.  • Real world OO design experience and knowledge of design patterns, combined with an ability to convey design information succinctly using suitable tools (UML, BPMN).  • Tied mobile client applications to critical server-side APIs.  • Implemented the Google YouTube API for playing videos.  • Joined a team of six developers.  • Used the SQLiteOpenHelper to connect with the local database and perform CRUD operations.  • Added a DrawerLayout to handle external and constant menu items related to the app’s current Activity and extra features.  • Parsed JSON files to obtain data returned from web services.  • The program was developed in Java using the Eclipse IDE and the Android Development Tool (ADT).  • Design a GSON representation to parse Web service requests quickly.  • Used navigation drawer to provide quick and easy access to the menu items.  • Worked with RoboGuice for dependency injection to develop clean, maintainable code.  • Implemented RadaeePDF SDK Android for read, view and modifies PDF files.  • Have developed and helped grow an effective engineering organization at all levels.  • Experience with Android performance profiling, memory and power management and optimizations.  • Used Picasso to improve the image rendering on the Recycler Views.  • Participated on the RESTful API definition.  • Created Material Design layouts with different animations optimized for the ultimate User Experience.  • Coordinated with the testing team during the testing phase to resolve issues.  • Designed custom animations for transitions between application activities  • Implementation of dynamic nested Fragments using the ChildFragmentManager. Android Developer Caterpillar Inc - Peoria, IL February 2012 to March 2013 https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.cat.paving.mobile.Paving_Calc  https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.cat.gis.mobile.inspect  https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.cat.mnd.mobile.catoperator  • Used Subversion to manage repositories versioning control.  • Regularly provide constructive feedback to team members so they can continuously grow individually.  • A sound understanding of HTTP and REST-style web services.  • Implemented multiple Google APIs in the developer's console included: Google Maps, Google Places, Google Location.  • Wrote the high-level designs and detail design for this app.  • Added support for Google Maps to render the location of Caterpillar branches.  • Partner with cross-functional teams to define new product requirements, features, and functionality.  • Trained and mentored new team members on the team in coding best practices, like memory management, network consumption.  • Designed the architecture for the app following proven design patterns such as MVC and SOA.  • Shrank and secured the code of the application with ProGuard.  • Developed unit testing suites with JUnit and Mockito.  • Created new general views for different Fragments used on the application.  • Extensive experience with Java and full command of Android APIs on all OS versions.  • Improved the UI/UX using customized Android styles and themes.  • Improved requirements on required specifications using Volley and use of different software design patterns.  • Created small testing suites with JUnit and the Eclipse IDE capabilities.  • Added several animations and transitions without of the box features and third party libraries.  • Used XZing to handle the QR code generation/reading cycle.  • Extensive use of support libraries to ensure backward compatibility with older Android versions.  • Experience building custom API solutions for external parties to tie into. Android Developer State Bank of India - Mumbai, Maharashtra August 2011 to February 2012 https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.sbi.SBIFreedomPlus  https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.sbi.SBFreedom  • Collaborated with the product team to identify, prioritize, and document detailed product requirements.  • Build new features to enhance the UX for consumers.  • Used the Fragment capabilities to handle multiport views and different screen size devices.  • Tested the game/application on various devices and emulators to determine compatibility.  • Utilized Shared Preferences to ensure data consistency.  • Conducted regular 1-on-1s with team members to provide career and technical mentorship.  • Implemented the use of threads on several tasks which improved the application performance.  • UI/UX design and wireframing with multiple tools including Balsamiq Mockups.  • Implemented Otto library for decoupling different parts of the application.  • Participated in all stages of software development including defining product vision, gathering requirements, software system design, coding, testing, release, and support.  • Used Urban Airship to make the Push Notification implementation seamless for the developer.  • Created all project documentations from requirements to deployment plan  • Worked with AsyncTask for multithreading and IntentServices for longer running asynchronous tasks.  • Experience in architecting and developing networking and secure applications for Android.  • Added a user configuration setting to persist and switch the network usage.  • Actively worked with the back end team to improve the RESTful API to include new features. Software Developer Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd - Mumbai, Maharashtra December 2010 to August 2011 • Built and scaled cloud-native applications on platforms with Amazon Web Services.  • Worked with various teams and alone as well to reach deadlines.  • Provided regular updates on projects and tasks at daily stand-up meetings.  • Computer program projects analysis and development.  • Documented native and PHP classes and methods using Doxygen Software Developer Gryphonsoft Solutions - Bangalore, Karnataka October 2009 to December 2010 • Implemented Subversion as the Version Control Software tool.  • Database systems analysis and development.  • Handled issue reporting with a ticketing system that tracked the development process.  • Created custom software solutions tailored to the user needs.  • Contributed diligently in thorough code reviews to achieve high-quality code.  • Continuously created complex SQL queries to get tailored information regarding new processes. Education Bachelor's of Science in Computer Science & Engineering Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University Master of Science in Electronics and Computer Engineering Northwest Missouri State University - Northwest, Missouri, US Skills Android, REST, Dependency Injection, Espresso, Git, Java, Jenkins, JIRA, JSON, JUnit, Material Design, Maps, NDK, Retrofit, RxJava, SCRUM, SOAP, SQLite, Unit testing and Android SDK