SR. PYTHON DEVELOPER SR. PYTHON <span class="hl">DEVELOPER</span> SR. PYTHON DEVELOPER - ExxonMobil Texas City, TX Experience as a Web/Application Developer and coding with analytical programming using Python, Django. Experience in python libraries like beautiful soup, JASY , NumPy, SciPy, matplotlib, Pickle, PYSIDE, Panda data frame, network, PYCHART, High carts, Urliib. strong command in JavaScript leading Frameworks Team like Angular.js, React.js, backbone.js, bootstrap.js, Node Js and Projects UI Designing Team. Worked with MVW frameworks like Django, Angular JS, HTML, CSS, XML, Java Script, jQuery, JSON and Node.js. Understanding of how to use network protocol analysis using a tool like Wireshark, Windump.  • Knowledge on continuous deployment using Heroku and Jenkins. Good experience in working on AWS S3 with Amazon. Experience in designing the automation framework using Python, Corn and Shell scripting. Experience on LAMP & WAMP. (Windows, Apache, MySQL and PHP) architecture. Good Experience in C/C development of multi-threaded applications in a Linux Environment.  • Familiar with XML/JSON based SOAP and REST web services and used the debugging the issues using debuggers like gdb, pdb. Experience in HTML/HTML5, DHTML, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Angular JS, AJAX, XML and JSON.  • Experience in full SDLC starting from collecting Business specifications, Analysis, Design and Development, Testing and documenting the entire life cycle using various methodologies. Involved in projects using agile and Extreme Programming methodologies.  • Experience in consumer-based features and applications using Python, Django, pyramid, Flask, Web2py, HTML and other web technologies. Wrote Python modules to extract/load asset data from the MySQL source database.  • Good experience in developing web applications implementing Model View Control architecture using Django, Flask, and spring web application frameworks. Experience working with Redis, RabbitMQ for task queues and Celery to manage Asynchronous tasks.  • Implementing Spark using Scala and Spark SQL for faster testing and processing of data responsible to manage data from different sources.  • Used Scala SBT to develop Scala coded spark projects and executed using spark-submit.  • Experience in building Real-time Data Pipelines with Kafka Connect and Spark Streaming, and in using spark - Cassandra connector to load data to and from Cassandra.  • Responsible in development of Spark Cassandra connector to load data from flat file to Cassandra for analysis.  • Experience in python modules regular expression, collections, dates and time, unit testing , Load testing. Hands on experience in using NOSQL libraries like MongoDB, Cassandra, Redis and relational databases like Oracle, SQLite, PostgreSQL and MYSQL databases.  • Having experience in developing a data pipeline using Kafka to store data into HDFS.  • Experience in NoSQL databases like Apache Cassandra (1.2, 2.0, and 2.1) and MongoDB (2.6, 2.4), Orient DB and Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python) Architecture.  • Experience with MongoDB as non-relational database to load, update and delete JSON documents.  • Experience with Docker images and containers and Usage of tools like Robo Mongo for migration of data between databases and environments without any kind of data loss.  • Hands on experience with various application servers and web servers including Apache Tomcat, Apache http servers, Web logic and WebSphere. Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile)  • Experience in working with different databases using Oracle, MySQL. Having Knowledge on Vertica, a columnar Relational Database Management System used for Data Warehousing and Big Data Analytics.  • Proficient in developing complex SQL queries, Stored Procedures, Functions, Packages along with the DDL and DML queries.  • Experience in establishing database connections for Java and Python by configuring packages like JDBC, MySQL-Python. Experience in developing applications using Java API, Swing, HTML3/4/5, Flex, JavaScript, CSS2/3, jQuery, JDBC, JSF, JMS, XML  • Experience in J2EE applications on IDE's like Eclipse, My Eclipse, Google GWT, and Rational Application Developer  • Familiarity with development best practices such as code reviews, unit testing with unit test and integration testing with PyVows. Hands on experience in working with various Version Control Systems, mostly GIT, CVS and SVN. Involved in all the phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC)  • Experience in developing applications using agile methodologies like Test Driven Development (TDD. Worked on various operating systems Windows XP/7/8/10, UNIX and Linux.  • Experienced in Linux shell commands and command line utilities. Worked in the team and faced challenges during the project development and production process. Networking knowledge (OSI Layers, Network Topologies, TCP/IP, etc.) and Excellent communication and time management skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience SR. PYTHON DEVELOPER ExxonMobil - Houston, TX June 2018 to Present • Used various Python libraries to speed up development (libraries used: Beautiful Soup, SciPy, python-twitter, Pandas data frame, network, urllib2, MySQL dB for database connectivity, JSON libraries)  • Worked on various applications using python integrated IDEs Sublime Text, PyCharm, NetBeans, Spyder and Carried out various mathematical operations for calculation purpose using Python libraries NUMPY.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content. Interactive network protocol analyzer and captured utility with Wireshark. Worked on several python packages like NumPy, matplotlib, Beautiful Soup, Pickle, Pisidia, SciPy, WX Python, PyTables.  • Deployed, Managed and Monitored MongoDB Replica Sets / Databases and prototyped MongoDB new features across multiple stacks.  • Developed single application to render dynamically based on the JSON from the Node JS server.  • Used configuration file and Node JS at backend to interact with MongoDB using Mongoose connector.  • Developed the application as a Spring Boot App to get range of non-functional features.  • Worked in integrating JMS with SPRING BOOT by providing an instance which is embed with Active MQ.  • Worked on NoSQL database MongoDB and developed custom MongoDB applications as per the client specification.  • Configured mongo-connector to create a pipeline from the MongoDB cluster to keep synchronize with the multiple sources like Elastic Search or another MongoDB cluster.  • Worked on several python packages like numpy, scipy, pytables etc..  • Having good experience in Hadoop Big Data processing. Expertise in developing the queries in Hive, Pig  • Mastering Web Application Development using html, JavaScript.  • Having Good Experience in Object Oriented Concepts with C , Java, Perl and Python.  • Experience in Design, Development, Testing, Automation, Enhancement and Maintenance of Applications and Tools.  • Good knowledge in various phases of SDLC Requirement Analysis, Design, Development and Testing on various Development and Enhancement Projects.  • Having good domain expertise in developing applications/tools using Perl and programming in C, C and Java.  • Having experience in developing GUIs using Tcl, Tk and Java.  • Enabled bi-directional communication on top of Web Socket. Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture.  • Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) for improved efficiency of storage and fast access.  Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud. Involved in front end and utilized Bootstrap and Angular.js for page design.  • Utilized Python libraries python, NumPy, Twisted and mat Potlid. Implemented SQL Alchemy which is a python library for complete access over SQL. Designed SPA (Single page applications) in Flux architecture using React.js.  • Worked on Element Tree XML API in python to parse XML documents and load the data in database. Designed and evaluated business using historical & current data from Google Analytics. Wrote diagnostic tests of multi-processor RaceWay and Crossbar hardware in C  • Used Wireshark, live http headers, and Fiddler2 debugging proxy to debug the Flash object and help the developer create a functional component. Involved in ITON video calling application using python web sockets and developed UI using HTML/CSS and JavaScript.  • Wrote object-oriented Python, Flask, SQL, Beautiful Soup, httplib2, Jinja2, HTML/CSS, Bootstrap, jQuery, Linux, Sublime Text, GIT. Developed front-end using Html, CSS, Java script, React, Redux, Bootstrap. Developed new Widget-app module for MMD 2.0 using React.js with Redux architecture and ES6. Involved in complete SDLC - Requirement Analysis, Development, System and Integration Testing.  • Developed multiple Kafka Producers and Consumers from as per the software requirement specifications.  • Worked on Kafka manager for consumer logs and for monitoring Kafka Metrics also this has been used for adding topics, Partitions to build real-time analytics purpose.  • Designed and developed asynchronous RESTful Microservices using Spring boot.  • To integrate the enterprise application technologies with existing JVM environment used in integration tools like Spring Integration, Mule ESB, Apache CXF, Apache Kafka and Apache Camel.  • Managed data in Omniture for data collection and analysis and worked on the library like pandas, NumPy, SciPy, Docker. Actively involved in developing the methods for Create, Read, Update and Delete (CRUD) in Active Record.  • Used Robot Test automation framework for Testing of the GUI of the application. Skilled in collections and used for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface. Developed RESTful web services for Catalog and Pricing with Django MVT, MySQL, and MongoDB.  • Created MongoDB replica sets, Clusters for growing highly scalable datasets in combining sharding databases. Design and Setting up of environment of MongoDB with shards and replica sets  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters. Created entire application using Python, Django, MySQL and Linux.  • Worked on Nexus architecture including F series and M series modules, the Crossbar fabric modules and Supervisor 2E.  • Used Amazon Elastic Beanstalk with Amazon EC2 to deploy project into AWS. Accessed database objects using Django Database APIs. Utilized Python libraries like NumPy and matplotlib for generating graphical reports.  • Implemented the Project structure based on Spring MVC pattern using spring boot. Utilized Futures and Spring Framework to make Asynchronous calls to the application.  • Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, Oracle DB, MongoDB, and VMWare API calls. Developed the tools using Python, Django and used MongoDB for databases.  • Created restful web services for Catalog and Pricing with Django MVT, Jersey, MySQL, and MongoDB  • Utilized standard Python modules such as csv, robot parser, itertools and pickle for development. Worked on Python OpenStack APIs and used NumPy for Numerical analysis.  • Used Git version control and deployed project to Heroku. Used Git to resolve and coding the work on python. Used Ajax and jQuery for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers. Developed Wrapper in Python for instantiating multi-threaded application.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Implemented and executed code to perform CRUD operations on MongoDB using PYmongo module. Wrote Python scripts to parse JSON documents and load the data in MongoDB.  • Managed datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL, queried MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package to retrieve information.  • Implementing Python alongside using various libraries such as matplotlib for charts and graphs, Python -twitter, PySide, Pickle, Pandas data frame, network, urllib2, and MySQL dB for database connectivity.  • Developed various algorithms for generating several data patterns. Created UI using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, JSON, jQuery.  • Implemented business logic using Python Web frame work Django. Designed applications implementing MVC architecture in Pyramid, Zope frame works. Designed mobile search application system requirements and coded back-end and front-end in Python. Worked on CSS Bootstrap to develop web applications.  • Analyzed and Designed application with the use of Docker. Implemented Model View Control architecture in developing web applications using Django frame work.  • Created backend database T-SQL stored procedures and Jasper Reports. ETL process for continuously bulk importing catalog data into Elastic search.  • Implemented python alongside using various libraries such as matplotlib for charts and graphs, MySQL db for database connectivity, python-twitter, PySide, Pickle, Pandas data frame, network, urllib2.  • Worked with databases records on daily basis, finding common errors and bad data patterns and fixing them.  • Exported/Imported data between different data sources using SQL Server Management Studio. Maintained program libraries, users' manuals and technical documentation. Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  • Worked with AWS is the interesting part of it putty is used launching the Instance, hands on Azure. Deployed automation and related tooling (Terraform, AWS Cloud Formation or similar). Configured AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) Groups and Users for improved login authentication. Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package. PYTHON DEVELOPER Tesla, Inc - Palo Alto, CA September 2015 to March 2018 • Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL. Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Implemented the Machine learning libraries like NumPy, Pandas, SciPy and Matplotlib for the evaluation of some algorithms and Data Visualization.  • Created new React/React-Native components, containers, services, and APIs for prototypes and extensively worked on Spark SQL, Data frames, RDD's to improve the performance of the application.  • Configured Spark streaming to get ongoing information from the Kafka and store the stream information to HDFS.  • Used Spark and Spark-SQL to read the parquet data and create the tables in hive using the Scala API.  • Experienced in using the spark application master to monitor the spark jobs and capture the logs for the spark jobs.  • Implemented Spark using Scala and Spark SQL for faster testing and processing of data.  • Implemented Spark using Scala and utilizing Data frames and Spark SQL API for faster processing of data.  • Used Wireshark, live http headers, and Fiddler debugging proxy to debug the Flash object and help the developer create a functional component.  • Actively participated in requirement gathering sessions and capability planning for multi data center Cassandra cluster. Installed, Configured, administered and monitored multi Data center Cassandra clusters.  • Involved in upgrading the present Oracle data model to Cassandra data model.  • Fetched twitter feeds for certain important keyword using python-twitter library. Used Python library Beautiful Soup for web-scraping. Experience with Requests, NumPy, Scipy, Matplotlib, and Pandas python libraries during development lifecycle.]  • Worked on the MySQL migration project to make the system completely independent of the database being used. Used Spring IBatis to implement this.  • Worked on Spring Security both client and Server Side. Worked on application service components and configured beans using Spring IoC, creation of Hibernate mapping files and generation of database schema.  • Used Python included Boto3 to supplement automation provided by Ansible and Terraform for tasks such as encrypting EBS volumes backing AMIs and scheduling Lambda functions for routine AWS tasks.  • Worked on deploying apps using AWS Cloud Formation. Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Deployed the project into Jenkins using GIT version control system. Developed frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Framework using Git. All the codes are stored in local Git repository and once it is validated then it is committed onto GitHub.  • Developed applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with its commands. Deployed the project into Heroku using GIT version control system.  • Used the Python's modules NumPy, matplotlib, etc. for generating complex graphical data, creation of histograms.  • Worked on JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services (AWS) and Responsible for setting up Python REST API framework and spring framework using DJANGO. Worked on deployment, data security and troubleshooting of the applications using AWS services  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main application Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Built various graphs for business decision making using Python matplotlib library. Built various graphs for business decision making using Python matplotlib library.  • Developed front end page using HTML, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery. Generated property list for every application dynamically using python.  • Development of XMLs for several components which maintains data for several registers. Used multithreading and multiprocessing to serve multiple client requests.  • Designed and developed SQL procedures and Linux shell scripts for data import/export and data conversions. Utilized various IDEs and internal debug tools during debugging.  • Analyzed the data in design database. Used SVN for version control. Involved in gathering business requirements, analyzing the project and created UML diagrams such as Use Cases, Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams and flowcharts for the Optimization module using Microsoft Visio.  • Used GOLANG to log the different host system event and alert information to Cassandra database. Developed web components using JSP, Servlets, and JDBC. Implemented database using MySQL. Implemented J2EE standards, MVC2 architecture using Spring Framework.  • Developed and implemented the MVC Architectural Pattern using Spring Framework including JSP, Servlets and Action classes. Created Spring Batches for running batch jobs and documented the use of Spring Batch.  • Used JSP, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, CSS, and HTML as data and presentation layer technology.  • Architected and developed Python and Django for the backend development and front-end application using React, Webpack, Redux, and ES6/7 and PostgreSQL for database.  • Worked on Django ORM module for signing complex queries. Defined different Django API profiling techniques for faster rendering information.  • Used Ansible, Vagrant and Docker for managing the application environments. Worked on Django Signals, and Celery. Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework with GIT.  • Developed Python scripts for testing and functioning of different services. Worked with Splunk for testing the performance and debugging server level problems.  • Implemented various Validation Controls for form validation and implemented custom validation controls using Object Oriented JavaScript. Used React JS in components like JSX, creating React components, Virtual DOM, React Props, Lifecycle methods, working with React States and Events.  • Developed Restful microservices using Flask and Django and deployed on AWS servers using EBS and EC2. PYTHON DEVELOPER GOLDMAN SACHS August 2014 to June 2015 • Created Python and Bash tools to increase efficiency of call center application system and operations, data conversion scripts, REST, JSON, and CRUD scripts for API Integration. Implemented programming automations using Jenkins and Ansible on Unix/Linux based OS over cloud like Docker.  • Strong experience and knowledge of real time data analytics using Spark Streaming , Kafka and Flume  • Extensively worked on Spark streaming and Apache Kafka to fetch live stream data.  • Expertise in writing Spark RDD transformations, Actions, Data Frames , Case classes for the required input data and performed the data transformations using Spark - Core  • Experience in integrating Hive queries into Spark environment using Spark SQL  • Expertise in performing real time analytics on big data using HBase and Cassandra  • Automation of unit testing using Python. Used Unix/Linux OS based cloud for the deployment. Wrote scripts in Python for extracting data from HTML file using Python library Beautiful Soup. Worked with Data migration from Sqlite3 to MongoDB.  • Build the Silent Circle Management System (SCMC) in Django, Python, and AngularJS while integrating with infrastructure services. Developed python scripts to migrate information from Oracle to MongoDB.  • Used GIT as Source control repositories with regular code reviews and pull/merge requests. Prototyped an augmented reality solution in the form of a video using Premiere Pro, Pylatte and Python, Git Adobe After Effects  • Participated in scalability testing to ensure MongoDB High Performance. Configured MONGODB Shaded cluster with Replica Set (HA) on Different AWS regions.  • Used AWS Cloud Watch to monitor and store logging information. Deployed project into Amazon web services (AWS) using amazon elastic bean stalk.  • Created a Python/Django based web application using Python scripting for data processing, MySQL for the database, and HTML/CSS/jQuery and High Charts for data visualization of the served pages.  • Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, jQuery and RESTAPI calls.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  • Implemented the Spring MVC architecture. Worked on Restful API development using Jersey API. Worked on different J2EE Design Patterns such as Factory Pattern and Singleton. Created User Interface screens using HTML, AJAX, CSS, Java script.  • Developed Action classes, Action Forms, and Struts Configuration file to handle required UI actions, JSPs for Views.  • Developed build scripts to generate EAR and WAR files Tomcat Server. Developed server-side presentation layer using Spring MVC Framework using Maven.  • Used the light weight container of the Spring Frame work to provide architectural flexibility for inversion of controller (IOC).  • Performed Inheritance based Object Relational Mappings in tables to simplify the data using Hibernate ORM. Used Java Scripts for data validations and designed validations modules.  • Developed project's web page as Single Page Application (SPA) by using AngularJS and JavaScript API and build delivery driver application.  • Developed views and templates with Django view controller and template to create a user-friendly website interface. Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for local timestamp data manipulation and retrieval and storing it into MongoDB.  • Deployed and tested different modules in Docker containers and GIT. Used multiple containers and managed the load balancing between all the containers using NGINX. PYTHON SOFTWARE ENGINEER CGI Group January 2013 to July 2014 • Representation of the system in hierarchy form by defining the components, subcomponents using Python and developed set of library functions over the system based on the user needs.  • Development of Python APIs to dump the array structures in the Processor at the failure point for debugging. Wrote programs to parse excel file and process many user data with data validations.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database. Developed front end page using HTML, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using python. Collected the several usage models and functions from the team members.  • Developing and maintenance of the tool that abstracts the information for the user. Development of XMLs for several components which maintains data for several registers.  • Skilled in using collections in python for manipulating and looping through different user defined object.  • Used multithreading and multiprocessing to serve multiple client requests. Designed and developed SQL procedures and Linux shell scripts for data import/export and data conversions.  • Utilized various IDEs and internal debug tools during debugging. Analyzed the data in design database. Used SVN for version control. Maintained the data with different levels of access privileges. Coordinated with the design team members to provide the data in required format.  • Developed GUI using Python and Django for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of python code using a web browser.  • Prepared test data files using Linux Shell scripts, Perl script as per the business requirements.  • Performed the data transition and API to Oracle from the Sybase ASE, Performed the transition of PL/SQL code to Oracle to Sybase.  • Migrated of the data contained in the earlier ASPL Database from Sybase to Oracle.  • Involved in the library transition to Oracle API from Sybase API.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database, Involved in development of Front-end Using Angular2.0, JavaScript, HTML5 and Back-end using Enterprise Java Beans.  • Wrote modular, secure, and well-tested front-end code in JS, HTML, and CSS using latest web application frameworks.