Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer - LTI Infotech * 8 years of experience in the field of architecture, analysis, design and development of web based applications.  * An effective developer, mentor and communicator in various areas of software development. Enthusiastic in learning latest technology applications and delivering effective technical presentations.  * Capable of delivering highly challenging tasks in the stipulated time frame.  * Effective result-oriented team player with excellent communication and inter-personal skills, with a positive attitude towards work, with adherence to time schedules and quality deliverables  * Good in Understanding of business logic and ability to work well as a part of a team and as an individual.  * Experience in Visual Studio 2010, 2012, 2015 IDE, SQL server 2008/2012 and tools like SVN, GIT, Teamcity, windeploy, Splunk,JIRA,ALM.    Project Fund Transfer & Withdrawal  Description  Fund Transfer Tool is a part of Insurance and Annuities project under Wealth  Management portfolio of Morgan Stanley. It provides financial advisors the ability to  Electronically submit subaccount transfers via Morgan Stanley platform and DTCC. DTCC is a vendor provider which connects to different carriers to place an order. Morgan Stanley communicates with DTCC and DTCC then communicate to different carriers. In this way MS does not need to have contract with all carriers and don't manage different communication channels to place an order with multiple carriers. DTCC handles carrier communication. The Fund Transfer tool is displayed all variable annuity policies networked to client's account. When user selects any policy, real-time call is made to DTCC to fetch the current value of underlying subaccounts in that policy. FA then can transfer the amount within the fund or can rebalance the client's portfolio.  Sub modules in Fund Transfer Tool are Fund Exchange, Rebalance Funds, Update  Standing Allocation, Fund Withdrawal.    Role Team Member  Responsibilities  • Working as a developer for Webapi and angular2/6 using typescript applications.  • Developed the entities, data transfer objects and contracts for the application.  • Developed service modules to connect with DTCC service (3rd party service providing financial services) to achieve the fund withdrawal and Fund Transfer.  • Developing business logic part of the application.  • Developing Unit Test cases with NUnit framework.  • Performing code reviews at multiple stages.  • Onboarding and configuring the applications to new ALM tools. (i.e. Jira, TeamCity, Windeploy. Splunk)  • Code promotion and Deployment  • Establishing Standard and guidelines for developers.  • Proposing technical solutions.  • Unit testing.  • Implemented rule engine  • Implemented Health check page    Solution Environment/ Technology  Microsoft ASP.NET Framework 4.6  Visual Studio 2015, TFS, MVC(5), WCF, Webapi(2), Angular (2,6).  CSS3, HTML, C#.  GIT, Teamcity, Windeploy, Splunk    Project Smart Park  Description  This project is to build a self-serving subscription portal for clients, subscribers to apply for permits (RFID Tags), manage their subscriptions and payments, view their accounts and usage and receive alerts for pre-configured events including credit card declines, location based promotional feeds,etc.  Project is divided into 2 parts,  1. Admin Portal.  2. Client Portal.  Admin Portal functionality:  • Fetch Service Providers from SmartPark database.  • Activate available Car Parks & generate portal URL from.  • Create System Users with specific role( System Admin, Client Admin, Back office Agent & Client Agent).  • Setup Documentation required, Pricing, Payment gateway and Other details.  • Create Backoffice entry for Permit Request & Permit Renewal.  • Setup content and Images for Portal system.  Client Portal functionality:  • Fetch respective Service provider Announcements and Offers on landing page.  • Create Subscription Module,  • Create Registration Module.  • Provide Facbook authentication (Open Authentication).  • Muti-stpe process for registartion that involves capturing subscriber/permit holder details as required by the service provider. Registration process would be dynamically built using configuration data.  • Provide Parking History module.  • Provide Payment History module.  Windows Services:  • Payment scheduler: This service run at interval of one hour which fetch last one hour parking session for subscriber.  Based on subscriber In and out time this service charge parking fees to subscriber.  If subscriber balance falls below threshold value it make call to payment gateway and perform auto top activity behalf of subscriber.  In case if subscriber payment call failed due to low balance then it will alert to subscriber through email or sms based on subscriber preference.  • Communication scheduler:  This scheduler run at interval of 24 hour, This scheduler to provider notification to subscriber for following activity.  a)RFID is about to expire  b)Credit card is about to expire  This notification is send to subscribers email or mobile based on their preference at time of registrations.  • EMAIL service:  This service is used to send email to subscriber. This service is configure with MSMQ to send email. This is centralize location to send email , Smart park admin , portal and communication and payment scheduler push message into queue , once message is received this service call fetch appropriate template and send email.  WCF Service:  There are two services in this application sync service and permit services.  • Sync service: This service push service provider , car park , bay and sector related data into database.  • Permit Service:This service check if subscriber parking in correct location based on his preference at time of registration. This service also push subscriber session IN and Out time into database, this data is used by payment scheduler to calcualate parking charges against that subscriber.    Role Team Leader  Responsibilities  • Responsible to design frontend UI screens.  • Requirement gathering and analysis.  • Maintaining and creating pages.  • Developed Web Pages with a consistent look and feel, using Asp.net razor view engine.  • Involved in writing client side and server side validations, making sure the pages validate.  • Involved in coding and implementation.  • Extensive use of Ado.Net in the data access layer to access and manipulate data in the database the data was then passed up the layer structure using typed datasets.  • Maintaining and editing of the data in database.  • Developed stored procedures for data access.  • Involved in the integration of application.    Solution Environment/ Technology  C#,.Net core 1, Asp.net MVC 5,MSMQ,WCF services,Windows Service, Sql Sever 2014,IIS,Twitter bootstrap,Eway Payment gateway integration,Social login integration.    Project Jaldicash  Description  The website is developed for Agent based money transfer service. The retailers who sign up to this site become Agents. These retailers would be permitted to make Electronic Fund Transfer/Money Transfers on behalf of customers enabling them to do remittance to any bank using IFSC code and Bank account number. The site is developed for two portals, Agent and Admin portal. Admin can acquire distributor which further used to acquire retailers. These retailers can register the sender with Mobile no. This mobile no will be used for further communication with customer. After successful registration of sender, receivers to which money has to transfer can be added with their bank account number. The money can be transferred through prepaid host. The prepaid wallet will be get created once sender is registered with the system, which we will be used for transactions.    Role Team Leader  Responsibilities  • Requirement gathering and analysis.  • Solution Architecture design.  • Involved in coding and implementation    Solution Environment C#, Asp.net MVC 5, WCF services, Sql Sever 2012,IIS,Twitter bootstrap, Payment gateway integration.    Project Project Planning Pro  Description  Project Planning Pro is a simple and easy to use tool to plan and manage any kind of project. It can be used for the simplest to the complex project management.  Create project plans, add tasks, link tasks, assign resources or manage your existing Microsoft Project plans on your windows tablet and desktop machine with Project Planning Pro+  User can browse plan from SkyDrive , local drive and from Email.  In this application user can create project plan and export this plan as .xml and .csv format file. This file can share with android, apple users to view and edit newly created project plan.  This application contains in app purchase functionality, user can create or open up to 3 plan after that they need to purchase it from store.  This application is multilingual which support 20 languages.    Role Team Member  Responsibilities  • Requirement gathering and analysis.  • Involved in coding and implementation    Solution Environment C#,Windows store, SQLite.    Project AKC  Description  AKC is medical domain project scheduling all the activities related to doctors' base on roles applications; also involves the tractions for inventory,billing, accounts and Lab with Quality control section.  AKC includes applications like  • Administrator  • Billing  • Inventory  • Dialysis treatments  • Patient Data / Consultation  • Dietician  • Accounts  • Lab & Quality Control    Lab & Quality Control includes applications like  • Administrator  • Billing  • Inventory  • Technician  • Accounts  • Phlebotomist    Lab & Quality Control includes roles like Lab Front Desk, Collection Agent, Lab Technician, Senior Lab Technician, Phlebotomist, Lab Manager. The Quality control section comes under Lab(as likes pathology sections).This section includes Basic setting for each test performs under Lab as per each center with basic requirements and rules(westgard rules). Lots for Test and Panels Equipments as per tests to perform under each department.    Role Team Member  Responsibilities  • Requirement gathering and analysis.  • Involved in coding and implementation    Solution Environment C#, ASP.NET MVC 4, Razor view engine, Jquery, MSSQL 2008, Entity Framework. Work Experience Software Developer LTI Infotech November 2018 to Present Senior Software develover Software Developer Capgemini Technology Service India Limited June 2016 to October 2018 Senior Consultant Software Developer Neosoft Technologies Pvt. Ltd - Mumbai, MAHARASHTRA, IN January 2011 to April 2016 Team Lead Education M.C.A Education society institute of technology - Mumbai, MAHARASHTRA, IN 2011 H.S.C G.N.Khalsa College 2003 S.S.C N.V.B School 2001 Additional Information Skills C#,HTML, jQuery, JavaScript, XML, WCF, ASP.NET MVC(3,4,5), Angular(2,6), Ajax, ADO.NET, MS-SQL(2008,2012), Web-Api(2),.Net Core 1  Source Control Tools GIT and Tortoise SVN  Tools Visual Studio 2010, Visual studio 2012, Visual studio 2015, IIS 8,Fiddler,Firebug    Achievement(s)    • Have received Star performer of the year award in 2018.  • Won Star of the month award in Feb 2015,March 2015 and October 2015.  • Won Excellencia, annual award for good performance in 2013.  • Won Excellencia, annual award for good performance in 2014.    Overview of IT Career Profile