Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer Swansea, MA Work Experience Software Developer Maritime Planning Associates - Newport, RI October 2018 to May 2019 I worked to add features and correct bugs in a web based Java GWT application, using Eclipse IDE and Relational Team Concert (RTC) for source control. I worked on different portions of the application such as the UI and database related issues. This was primarily a remote position with two days in the office. Software Developer KBRwyle - Burlington, MA June 2017 to September 2018 As a software developer for KBRwyle, I am responsible for the development of software Tests using the Cucumber and Citrus frameworks. I also review bugs and issues that are Discovered by these tests. I have also worked in our Jenkins CI environment to automate our performance tests that are based on SoapUI. I also worked with Docker containers as part of our testing infrastructure. Programmer Analyst Medical Information Technology Inc - Westwood, MA December 2015 to June 2017 As a programmer analyst at Meditech I am primarily responsible over troubleshooting and resolving issues within our administrative applications. When a customer using our software finds an issue or an unexpected result from the software that could not be solved by first level assistance I am then requested to review and resolve the issue. Software Support Technician Medical Information Technology Inc - Westwood, MA October 2012 to December 2015 While a software support technician I worked to update our customers software. I was responsible for deploying new Test environments. I delivered new application code to the customers' Test and Live systems. I also built a handful of internal utilities that helped to streamline my workflow including a dynamic email reminders for pending tasks and a status board for processes in progress. Information Technology Intern Southern Virginia University - Buena Vista, VA May 2010 to July 2012 As an intern I had numerous responsibilities, including the installation of software and the deployment of new computers, hardware repairs and replacements on various computer systems, as well as virus detection and removal. I have also pulled cable for network devices. I have installed Windows Server in a test environment setting, along with the establishment of users, groups, file shares, active directory, DHCP server, and domain controllers. Education Masters of Computer Science in Computer Science Bridgewater State University Present BA in Computer Science in Computer Science Southern Virginia University April 2012 Skills Cucumber, Docker, Git, Groovy, Jenkins, Json, Python, Xml, Eclipse, Java, Sql, Linux, Mac, Mac os