Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Nashua, NH • Pursing masters in Data Analytics and Business Statistics at the New England College at Henniker with a specialization in Data Science.  • SAS and python programmer with 2 years of experience in data analytics.  • C# and SQL developer for 1 years of experience in desktop and web applications.  • Hands-on expertise using statistical tools such as SAS, Python for data modeling and forecasting.  • Proficient in data visualization tools like Tableau along with office MS Office (Excel) to demonstrate interesting insights by creating dashboards & reports.  • Extensive knowledge in Data mining algorithms like Regression analysis (linear and logistic regression), Decision trees, Neural Networks, Cluster analysis, Associative mining & Hypothesis testing (Anova, t-test, Paired, Chi- Square) and ETL processes.  • Excellent critical thinking combined with problem solving ability, project management, verbal and written skills.    Data Science Analyst Jan2016- Dec2017  Schlumberger - Idweb - Accenture  • Extensive use of SAS EG and SAS Miner for data preparation (data cleaning and data transformation) and data analysis (independent descriptive statistics analysis and hypothesis testing).  • Segmented the product categories using clustering in SAS and optimized the pricing strategy by analyzing market  elasticity across different customer segments.  • Predicted the customer churn by building Logistic Regression model and conducting customer segmentation.  • Experienced in developing database scripts (DML/DDL), stored procedures and other database objects necessary to accomplish project objectives using SQL.  • Collaborated with digital & print marketing teams to streamline, implement & analyze all promotional A/B tests.  • Extensive use of reporting tools like Excel and Tableau for generating ad hoc reports and documentation of analysis. Work Experience Software Developer Schlumberger - Idistrict - Accenture December 2014 to December 2016 • WPF application used for planning software where the client plans and assigns work to the employees.  • Develop the UI Screens using XAML. Education Master of Science in Data Analytics and Business Statistics in python & Data Mining New England College - Henniker, NH March 2018 to Present Skills Python (2 years), HTML 5 (2 years), Javascript, PHP