Application Developer Application <span class="hl">Developer</span> Application Developer - Cisco Systems San Jose, CA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Application Developer Cisco Systems - San Jose, CA October 2017 to Present Description: Cisco is the worldwide leader in IT and networking. We help companies of all sizes transform how people connect, communicate, and collaborate.  Responsibilities:  • Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website.  • Involved in making the UI changes and also developing the new initiatives for the application.  • Developed web applications in Django Framework's model view control (MVC) architecture.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Wrote python scripts to parse JSON documents and load the data in database.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the React UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Involved in development of Web Services using REST for sending and getting data from the external interface in the JSON format.  • Wrote and executed various MySQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse JSON documents and load the data in database.  • Developed ETL (Data Extraction, Transformation and Loading) scripts to extract the data from multiple source systems that comprise databases like Oracle 12g, SQL Server 7.2, flat files to the Staging area, EDW and then to the Data Marts.  • Dockerized applications by creating Docker images from Docker file.  • Developed Tableau visualizations and dashboards using Tableau Desktop.  • Developed Tableau workbooks from multiple data sources using Data Blending  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile).  • Built development environment with JIRA, BitBucket.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Involved in entire lifecycle of the project including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Involved in code reviews using GitHub pull requests, reducing bugs, improving code quality, and increasing knowledge sharing  • Working under UNIX environment in development of application using Python and familiar with all of its commands.  Environment: Python, Django, JQuery, Tableau, MySQL, Oracle, Linux, HTML, CSS, AJAX, BITBUCKET, JavaScript, Apache Web Server, Docker. Senior Python Developer PrimaryOne Health - Columbus, OH January 2017 to October 2017 Description: At PrimaryOne Health, it is our mission to serve the Central Ohio community with affordable, easy to access healthcare services. We are a group of highly trained medical professionals committed to promoting the health and well-being of all individuals and families in the Central Ohio community.  Responsibilities:  • Extensively used OOD concepts in overall design and development of the system.  • Used UML Rational Rose to develop Use-case, Class and Object diagrams for OOA/OOD techniques.  • Prepared and analyzed reports using Python libraries and involved in environment Setup.  • Created the environment specific settings for a new deployment and update the deployment specific conditional checks in code base to use specific checks.  • Placed data into JSON files using Python to test Django websites.  • Using Amazon SQS to queue up work to run asynchronously on distributed Amazon EC2 nodes.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the JQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Used XML for dynamic display of options in select box and description on web page.  • Wrote Python modules to view and connect the Apache Cassandra instance.  • Created Git repository and added the project to GitHub.  • Responsible for Debugging and Troubleshooting issues.  • Involved in debugging the applications monitored on JIRA using agile methodology.  • Setting up network environments using TCP/IP, DNS, DHCP and proxy.  • Involved in postproduction support for solving complex tickets.  • Resolved user problems in a timely and accurate manner as a member of the End-User support team.  • Involved in presenting demos to the clients and also reporting the daily and weekly status to the Project manager.  • Involved in assigning the tasks to the development team.  • Involved in handling the developing team and mentoring the junior developers.  • Involved in creating the database modelling to the project and wrote queries for retrieving data from backend.  • Deployed the project into Heroku using GIT version control system.  • Designed RESTful XML web service for handling AJAX requests.  • Involved in deploying the code into Amazon Web Server using BOTO API.  • Developed, tested and debugged software tools utilized by clients and internal customers.  • Coded test programs and evaluated existing engineering processes.  • Responsible for running and maintaining business processes on daily / weekly / monthly basis.    Environment: Python, Django, Java Script, Coffee Scripting, LESS, HTML, Angular JS, JSON, AJAX, XML, CSS, SQL, MySQL, Bootstrap, Restful Web Services, Beautiful Soup, Jenkins, GitHub, Linux. Python Developer Apollo Education Group - Phoenix, AZ September 2013 to July 2015 Description: Apollo's mission of educating working learners on a global scale is leveraged by the strength of each of its education brands that span the globe. Every one of the brands strives to meet the changing needs of today's learners through technological investment, advanced learning methodologies and innovation. As a result, Apollo has been able to provide strong academic outcomes and career enhancement opportunities to students, as well as help the global education system evolve into one that addresses the needs of a wide and varied population.  Responsibilities:  • Developed web applications in Django Framework's model view control (MVC) architecture.  • Exposure on Multi-Threading factory to distribute learning process back-testing and into various worker processes.  • Performed efficient delivery of code based on principles of Test Driven Development(TDD) and continuous integration to keep in line with Agile Software Methodology principles  • Different testing methodologies like unit testing, Integration testing, web application testing  • Developed test scripts for automation with Selenium.  • Python/Django based web application, Postgresql DB and integrations with 3rd party email, messaging, storage services.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash  • Design and implemented custom scripts.  • Extensive use of version controller Team Foundation Server(TFS).  • Tested and validated the custom scripts.  • Delivered automated solutions for science models  • Managed, developed and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, Oracle DB, PostgreSQL and VMWare API calls.  • Implemented configuration changes for data models.  • Maintained and updated existing automated solutions  • Handled potential points of failure through error handling and communication of failure  • Risk analysis for potential points of failure (database, communication points, file system errors)  • Troubleshoot the process execution and worked with other team members to correct them.  • Actively worked as a part of team with managers and other staff to meet the goals of the project in the stipulated time.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team  • Used Pandas library for statistics Analysis.  • Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  • Extensively used python modules such as requests, urllib, urllib 2 for web crawling.  • Developed GUI using webapp2 for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of python code using a web browser.  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  • Responsible for user validations on client side as well as server side.  • Interacted with QA to develop test plans from high-level design documentation    Environment: Python 2.7, Django, HTML5/CSS, MS SQL, MySQL, JavaScript, Eclipse, Linux, Shell Scripting, JQuery, GitHub, Angular.JS, Jira Software Developer Soft unique Info Solutions - Bengaluru, Karnataka June 2011 to September 2013 Description: SalesLogix is the platform of choice for companies strategically focused on customer engagements. Robust functionality, deep integration, and high flexibility in how the companies use and deploy their solution result in a solution that works the way they need it to. SalesLogix provides Rich customer profiles and sales productivity tools which help users identify opportunities and streamline sales activities. Simultaneously, sales management tools, analytics, and proactive alerts drive accurate forecasting as well as effective team and territory management.  Responsibilities:  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Work with team of developers on python applications for RISK management.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript  • Made Django web based apps for Insurance premium calculations.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python.  • Rewrite existing Java, C++ application in Python.  • Used Django APIs for database access.  • Used Python to extract weekly hotel availability information from XML files.  • Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis.  • Used Apache Couchdb (NoSQL) in AWS Linux instance in parallel to RDS MySQL to store and analyze job market info.  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML  documents.  • Developed ColdFusion Components, custom tags and modified CF Objects.  • Designed the architecture of the hardware environments and methodology of the code.  • Involved in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment  • Wrote AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Datatables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings.  • Issues pertaining to Real time data being read from RabbitMQ into Postgres and Cassandra.  • Build SQL, NO SQL queries implementing functions, packages, views, triggers, and tables.    Environment:Python 2.x, Django 1.4, Java Script, Matplotlib, Plotly, HTML, JQuery, JSON, AJAX, XML, CSS, Oracle, MySQL, Bootstrap, SOAP Web Services, Beautiful Soup, Jenkins, SVN, Linux, Eclipse. Education Masters in Information in systems Central Michigan University December 2016 Bachelors in Computer Science and Technology in Computer Science and Technology Andhra University April 2011 Skills .net, C++, Django, Git, Html, Json, Python, Flask, Reporting tools, Scripting, Svn, Xml, Mysql, Oracle, Pl/sql, Postgresql, Sql, Linux, Shell scripting, Unix, Javascript, Jquery, Sql Server