Senior Consultant Senior Consultant Senior Consultant - NetApp • 9.6 years of experience in the areas of Software Development & Implementation, presently working with Infogain India Pvt. Ltd as a Senior Consultant. Thorough understanding of the SDLC with proficiency in mapping client / business requirements, documentation, application design, development, integration & testing and troubleshooting for complex information systems management. Holds the distinction of executing numerous software design, development & implementation projects in web technologies.  • Mapping business/client's requirements and translating these requirements into functional specifications.  • Worked in the both application development and support departments and was actively involved in client communication  • Coordinating and integrating project activities. Estimating the resources and participants needed to achieve project goals.  • Conducting system study and coordinating with team members for System Design & Integration. Planning and scheduling project timelines and milestones using appropriate tools (IPM).  • Handling various technical aspects like product documentation, software designs, coding of modules.  • Identifying and managing project dependencies and critical path; Track project milestones and deliverables. Work Experience Senior Consultant NetApp March 2016 to Present Project: EDR and Brewery Full Stack Developer HCL Technologies November 2014 to March 2016 The technologies which are used are Apache, WebLogic, WebCenter Content, Oracle Database. Application is a Spring MVC portal whose Front-End is built in ExtJs 6.7 and Backend is in Spring MVC 3.0. This portal is basically used for projects, documents and contracts management for the client.  Responsibility:  • Development and support of NetApp portal.  • Workflows Implementation  • Auto-replication setup.  • Development of new requirement in Backend and Frontend.  • Installation, configuration, support and maintenance of WebLogic 11g, Apache for the application.  • Working independently for tickets and various scheduled/emergency infrastructure changes.  • Interaction with client and business to analyze the requirements during changes requirement phase.  • Prepare automated scripts for monitoring services, processes.    Period: From 13 Nov 2014 to 28 March 2016.  Company: HCL Technologies  Client: Keysight  Role: Lead Engineer    Project: Keysight Technologies  Summary:- In the current setup, we are having many servers which are assigned for a specific role for the application. The technologies which are used are Apache, Weblogic, Webcenter Content, Oracle Database, sitescope, Dynatrace etc. The environment is 24*7 and the teams work on rotational shifts onshore/offshore  Responsibility:  • Upgrade of Current setup of Content servers (UCM-10g) to WCC 11G.  • Workflows Implementation  • Auto-replication setup  • Installation, configuration, support and maintenance of weblogic 10.3.6, Apache for the application.  • Working independently for tickets and various scheduled/emergency infrastructure changes.  • Interaction with client and business to analyze the requirements during changes requirement phase.  • Co-ordinate with different teams as part of SRT to restore the services during priority issues.  • Prepare automated scripts for monitoring services, processes. Software Engineer Hays Business Solutions August 2012 to November 2014 Software Engineer Sony December 2009 to August 2012 Project 1:- Sangam  Summary:- Sangam is an integrated set of on-line business system applications focused around the Oracle Fusion middleware platform that have enabled us to provide an interactive web presence to both candidates and employers, delivered by a business controlled content management system. Key Features: Job Posting, Candidate Posting, Job Searching, Featured Employers.    Responsibility:  • To provide a platform to website Designers/Creative/Marketing team for building Microsite  • Give Process and Flexibility to style, UI, presentation layer of Microsites using UCM Sitestudio 10gR4/11g features  • Facility to perform Microsite Job Search using standard search facility on website  • Custom Application Form to send Email directly to an email address defined per job  • Workflows Implementation  • Auto-replication setup    Period: December 2009 to August 2012  Company: NVISH Software Solutions  Client: Sony  Role: Software Engineer    Project 1:- Browse All Functionality Summary: - This project is developed on top of us.playstation.com. The aim of the project was to create a module for browsing the product available in United States for PlayStation. There were various games, accessories,    movies, TV-shows, and seasons available for browsing. Designing a system where moderators can make frequent updates and the management of huge contents was the main challenge.  Responsibility:  • Integration with the existing CMS  • Configuring crone jobs for the updates  • Handled various technical aspects like product documentation, product customization  • Played a key role for the Go Live & production releases  • Involved in Build & Release process.    Project 2:- Latam PlayStation Websites Summary: - The project was to develop 13 websites for Latin America with localized contents for the marketing of PlayStation. Integration with PlayStation  On network. Management of these websites through a single content management system an efficient sharing of resources was the main aspects of the project  Responsibility:  • Integration with the existing CMS  • XML based management of products  • Localization  • Handled various technical aspects like product documentation, product customization  • Played a key role for the Go Live & production releases    Project 3: - Internal process automation Summary: - The project was to minimize the manual effort of various content managers in the organization from application support department. Aim if the project was to automate the recurring activities using utilities and browser automation.  Responsibility:  • Browser Automation  • Process Automation  • Handled various technical aspects like product documentation, product customization  • Played a key role for the Go Live & production releases  • Involved in Build & Release process. Education MCA Punjabi University Patiala - Patiala, Punjab 2009 Skills Mysql, Oracle, Sql, Visual studio, Api, Content management, Javascript, Scripting, Content management system, Cms, Eclipse, Java, Hibernate, Spring, jquery, Mvc, Tomcat, Web server, Weblogic, Linux Additional Information SKILLS:  Operating System: Linux, Windows 98/XP/2000  Languages: Core Java  Web Technologies: Java Script, Selenium Web driver API for browser automation  Frameworks: Spring MVC, Hibernate  Databases: Oracle, MySQL, SQL  Web Server: Apache2.2 & 2.4, Tomcat 6.0, 7.0 WebLogic 11G  Scripting Language: JavaScript, IDOC Script, jQuery, ExtJs 6.5 and 6.7  IDE: Eclipse, SiteStudio, JDeveloper, Visual studio CMS: Content Management System (Oracle UCM 10g and Oracle WCC 11g) Version Controller: Perforce