Principal Software Engineer - IT Principal <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer - IT Principal Software Engineer - IT - DELL • More than 8 years of extensive experience in Data Migration and Integrating it with CRM applications such as Salesforce and Siebel platforms using Cloud and ETL technologies such as DELL Boomi, Informatica, MSBI, Jaspersoft and DataStage.  • Expertise in Business and Data Analysis and requirement understanding, development and data modeling across IT Industries such as Product development, Services, Health Insurance and Marketing Industries.  • Well experienced in end to end ETL Development, deployments, deployment object creation, labelling, versioning, Production validation, Data Validation and Data Migration.  • Extensive experience in developing the DELL Boomi Process to Migrate the data across various source systems to cloud CRM systems Using various Connectors such as FTP, Database, Salesforce, Disk and Mail with respective Connection Operators.  • Experienced in working with various shapes such as Map, Set Properties, Program Command, Process Call, Data Process, Cache, Branch, Route, Decision, Business Rules, Flow Control and notify to enhance the data flow process as per business requirements.  • Well experienced in error handling methodologies using Try/Catch and exception shapes. Also worked on dynamic document, process properties to get the run time parameters to process the datasets in larger volumes.  • Experience in Creating new Environments/Atoms and Deploying the processes to various Atom/Environments, Scheduling the processes.  • Working knowledge on different data sources such as OLEDB, Excel, XML, Flat Files, PDF, DB2, SQL Server, X12.  • Experience in writing Oracle, SQL Server, MYSQL, PL/SQL queries, query performance tuning and database mirroring.  • Expertise in creating/modifying Tables, Views, Stored Procedures, Functions and in-depth knowledge in query optimization & performance tuning.  • Knowledge of OLAP & Multi-Dimensional Data Modeling. Designing star & snowflake schemas, Data Marts, Data Mining, Data quality Analysis, Data Integration, Slowly Changing Dimensions (SCD) and creating job flow diagrams.  • Working experience in Informatica B2B data exchange and B2B transformation Studio, Informatica IDQ, MDM, Informatica ILM Implementation, Informatica version upgradation and Data archivals.  • Experience in SQL Server 2008/2005/2000 OLAP database development including KPIs, Data mining, working with changing dimensions.  • Experience in BI tools includes Cognos10 framework Manager and reports designer, SSRS and Business Objects BOXI/R2, Tableau  • Experience in ETL tools validation across MSBI, IBM DataStage, Jasper and Informatica.  • Extensively worked on Waterfall, Agile/Scrum methodologies.    • Well experienced on all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of Data warehousing, including functional requirements gathering from the business users, requirement analysis, specification writing, design, creation of mapping documents, development, testing, and Post-Production Support  • Conduct/participate in Iteration/Sprint planning, Story point estimation and work on assigning the User stories for development and implementation. Work Experience Principal Software Engineer - IT DELL - Round Rock, TX July 2018 to Present Environment: Salesforce Lightning, DELL Boomi Integration, Oracle SQL Developer, Siebel CRM, Salesforce Analytics, Data Loader, Salesforce Classic, JavaScript, Groovy, Informatica 9.6.1, UNIX, Putty, Team Foundation Server(TFS).  Responsibilities:  ? Analyze and identify the Gaps in requirements, coordinate with business users and convert the business requirements into technical specifications.  ? Track all the requirements using TFS and work with other interlock teams for continuous development.  ? Analyze the data migration requirements and design the data flow model with ER model.  ? Design/Develop the DB system to store the data in accordance with business requirements.  ? Create necessary Tables, stored procedures, triggers and PL/SQL Packages to extract and store the data for downstream/upstream systems with initial and incremental load.  ? Develop new processes to move the data from existing application to new CRM application using DELL Boomi cloud integration.  ? Write custom scripts using JavaScript/Groovy to fetch the process parameters inside the map for Data transformation.  ? Expertise in using environment extensions, cross reference, connections parameters to deploy the processes in to different molecules as required.  ? Implement the process as per DELL Boomi Coding standards using Maps, Set Properties, Decision/Business rules shapes, Branch and Routing as required and tune the performance analyzing the flow control threads to balance the server load during real time executions.  ? Perform Unit testing to validate the development in accordance with functional requirements.  ? Build the process and deploy it to respective atoms/environments for SIT, UAT and Production environments in each phase.  ? Support data migration requests across other streams to provide continuity in interlock testing on-demand.  ? Prepare release instructions, DBA procedures, back-out plan and post production validation steps during Production Implementation.  ? Work on Major Incident Management to resolve any issues based on severity. Software Developer Indotronix International Corporation - Poughkeepsie, NY May 2018 to July 2018 Environment: DELL Boomi Integration, Informatica 9.5.1, 10.2, UNIX, Putty, WINSCP, SQL Developer, Informatica B2B, Data Transformation Studio, TIDAL Scheduler, ClearQuest.  Responsibilities:  ? Defines the scope and objectives and prepares technical /functional requirements listing with impacted objects for reference.  ? Migrates the code from Informatica 9.5 to Informatica 10.2, validates the data in both the systems.  ? Creates Tidal jobs and deploys the code from DEV to QA and continues to provide support until post production.  ? Perform Gap analysis and reviews the implementation plan with the scrum team to ensure the transition is up to date as per the schedule.  ? Performs Code check-ins in the SVN and reviews the test results, maintains technical development environment.  ? Mentors others and may lead multiple or small to medium sized projects.  ? Facilitates group sessions to elicit complex information on requirements clarification, design sessions, code reviews and troubleshooting issues. Technology Analyst Infosys Ltd - Chennai, Tamil Nadu November 2012 to August 2016 Environment: DELL Boomi Integration, Informatica 9.5.1, 9.6.1, SSIS 2008, Cognos 10, TOAD, DB2, UNIX, Putty, WINSCP, SQL Developer, Informatica B2B, Data Transformation Studio, TFS, SharePoint.  Responsibilities:  ? Proactively interact and collaborate with stakeholders/Architects to analyze business needs and create the Business Requirements Document and System requirement specifications for Data Migration and ETL Development.  ? Involved in implementation of HIPAA EDI Transactions in building EDIs 270, 271, 276, 277, 470, 835, 837 and 834.  ? Performed GAP Analysis for HIPAA 4010 and 5010 transactions and Used EDI tools to verify mapping to X12 format  ? Preparing technical specifications document, ETL Mapping document and Metadata management for ETL load and extract processes.  ? Installation, Configuration and Administration of Informatica Power Center on Client/Server Environment.  ? Worked on Informatica Power Center tools- Designer, Repository Manager, Workflow Manager, and Workflow Monitor.  ? Developed the ETLs to fetch the data from different source system and integrate.  ? Development of new ETL's for EDI gateway 5010 implementation to process HIPAA X12 files from various trading partners.  ? Transform X12 files through Data transformation studio and parse the data through Informatica transformations to process EDI data and load it into downstream systems.  ? Loading Data to the Interface tables from multiple data sources such as SQL server, Text files and Excel Spreadsheets using SQL Loader, Informatica and ODBC connections.  ? Create/modify the database tables, stored procedures to accommodate new customer data as part of metadata management.  ? Developed ETL workflows to migrate existing trading partner set up in legacy mainframe system to B2B Data Exchange Repository.  ? Has worked on Informatica 9.1 to 9.5 upgrade handling multiple real-time and batch transactions code migration inclusive of environment and data testing throughout.  ? Designed and developed an approach to handle event creation with two layers of sequence numbers so that, both the custom transformations and Informatica transformations can co-exist in version 9.5.  ? Creating necessary repositories to handle the metadata in the ETL process.  ? Designing the target warehouse using Star Schema.  ? Creating mappings to load data from various sources, using different transformations like Source Qualifier, Expression, Lookup, Aggregator, Update Strategy, Joiner, Normalizer, Filter and Router transformations, Union transformations, etc.  ? Simplified the data flow by using a Router transformation to check multiple conditions at the same time.  ? Creating sessions, sequential and concurrent batches for proper execution of mappings using workflow manager.  ? Implemented ILM with a three-tier architecture to store and manage transactional data. This results in storing data segregated by retention period such as short, medium and long term.  ? Providing technical guidance to the team and work on solution design.  ? Prepare Coding standards, perform code reviews, design review, unit testing reviews for each environment.  ? Migrated data from Legacy DB2 environment to SQL Server 2005 with SQL Server Integrated Services SSIS.  ? Created ETL process using SSIS to transfer data from heterogeneous data sources.  ? Created logging for ETL load at package level and task level to log number of records processed by each package and each task in a package using SSIS.  ? Responsible for Deploying, Scheduling Jobs, Alerting and Maintaining SSIS packages.  ? Code Migrations to Main Development folders, SIT and UAE repository. Software Engineer Ascent Staffing Solutions Pvt. Ltd - Bengaluru, Karnataka December 2010 to November 2012 Environment: Informatica 8.x, MSBI, Data Stage, .Net, IIS, SQL Server 2000/2005/2008, Oracle, TOAD, DB2, UNIX, WINSCP, TFS 2010, SharePoint.  Responsibilities:  ? Convert business requirements into technical specifications, create design and mapping documents with data modelling and database design.  ? Creating Sprints, assigning enhancements, bugs and user stories to the sprints seasons and work on implementation along with the team.  ? Involved and Coordinated Sprint meeting, sprint review and Sprint Retrospective meeting.  ? Conducted the FRS and URS reviews and walkthroughs with designers, developers and stakeholders. Also conducted feasibility and adaptability study  ? Develop ETLs to fetch the data from various data sources such as DB2, Mainframes, excel, OLEDB and load into various target systems.  ? Created multiple complex mappings using aggregators, expressions, joiners, ranking, filters and Lookup transformations.  ? Involved in tuning the mappings, sessions and source qualifier queries.  ? Worked with different caches such as Index cache, Data cache, Lookup cache ( Static, Dynamic and Persistent) and join cache while creating the Mappings  ? Worked on migrating the legacy aviation data from SQL Server 2000 to 2008 through new ETLs with no impact on application.  ? Created a new mapping/workflow to validate the daily counts and weekly counts for incremental load and full load jobs to notify the business users for application data validations.  ? Worked on multiple ad-hoc requests to create SSIS ETL, creating Config files, multiple data flow tasks and data transformations such as Derived Column, Conditional Split, Merge Joins and SCD's.  ? Worked on Code migration from DEV, TEST, UAT and PROD, preparing technical and process documentation for each change object deployment.  ? Worked on developing UNIX scripts to move the files from Production to archival locations as part of production server management.  ? Worked on creating new Database, Tables, Indexes, Stored Procedures, Triggers and Cursors.  ? Worked on IIS (Internet Information Services) deployments as part of application changes during sprint releases.  ? Handle Team Foundation Server (TFS 2010) for code check-in, branching/labelling the application code and ETL jobs and test cases, test results. Software Engineer XLCare/United Health Group - Bengaluru, Karnataka December 2009 to December 2010 Environment: SQL Server 2000/2005, DTS 2000, SSIS 2005, Oracle, SSRS, FTP, VSS  Responsibilities:  ? Designed and implemented new SSIS jobs for all the data load processes from various vendors to load the data into target data bases while retiring from DTS system and upgrading to SSIS 2005.  ? Worked on SQL query performance tuning, Stored procedures, converting cursors into SP's and creating SSIS config files.  ? Designing Database, creating tables, Indexes etc as part of legacy system retirement from SQL 2000 to 2005.  ? Analyzing the data files from Trizetto SFTP for Coordination of Benefits, Member Enrollment, Institutional and Professional Claims, Paper claims, Pharmacy data etc to develop the ETL coding templates and to design target database.  ? Work on Unit testing, data validation of new SSIS jobs w.r.t legacy DTS jobs to ensure data accuracy in the new system.  ? Execute and monitor Replication system as part of Data warehouse refresh process and notify the DBA's in case of job failure.  ? Work on ad-hoc requests to pull the Pharmacy claims and member benefits data extracting from reporting database. Skills Data modeling, Database, Db2, Ms access, Sql server, Mysql, Oracle, Pl/sql, Sql, Datastage, Etl, Informatica, Mdm, Sharepoint, Ssrs, Team foundation server, Siebel, Tableau, Crm, Groovy Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  ETL/BI Tools  DELL Boomi, Informatica 10.2, Informatica PowerCenter 9.x/8.x, IDQ, Informatica MDM, SSIS 2005/2008, and DataStage Cognos10 Framework Manager and Report Studio, SSRS and Business Objects, Tableau    CRM Salesforce, Siebel  Scripting JavaScript, Groovy 1.5, Groovy 2.4  Operating System Windows, UNIX  Data Modeling Tools Erwin 4.0, ER Studio  Database Oracle 9i/10g/11g, MSSQL Server 2000/05/08/12, DB2, MYSQL, MS Access 7.0/2000, SQL Server (DTS/SSIS/SSRS)  Tools  PL/SQL Developer, TOAD, SSMS, MS Office Suite, MS Visio, TFS(Team Foundation Server), SharePoint, SVN sub versioning, HPALM, Clear Quest