Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer - Strive Logistics/RedwoodLogistics Austin, TX • Over 7 years of experience in the FullStack and web application development  • Strong expertise at .Net framework, ASP.Net, C#, ADO.Net, VB.Net and SQL server 2015 MVC 5, WPF and MVVM  • Hands on experience on responsive frontend web development using Bootstrap, HTML5, CSS3, Angular 2.0, Java scripts and Jquery.  • Hands on experience on Web services, AJAX and WCF, AWS and WEB API.  • Hands on experience on Web Matrix, Crystal Report  • Experience in JSON and REST API and ASP.Net API  • Experienced in Unit Testing for dependency Injection.  • Total around 2 years' experience in rest and web API.  • Knowledge in Python integration  • Experience on development using agile scrum methodologies and SCM tools like GIT and clear case. Work Experience Software Developer Strive Logistics/RedwoodLogistics - Austin, TX June 2018 to Present Strive Logistics has developed LoadRunner Technologies, a Transportation Management System (TMS) that provides a competitive advantage over other logistics providers and acts as a disruptive force in the over $900B domestic logistics market.  • Design, enhance, and maintain Strive Internal LoadRunner Technology using C#, MVC 5, Asp.net and Sql Server 2015  • Work directly with Business owners to develop solutions to complex problems  • Responsible for the full life-cycle development for our proprietary software as well as customer portals for both web and mobile  • Implement all new features and functions end to end, Used MSMQ for Automation application which will update price for logistics booking  • Participate in the deployment of your new features to production.  • Consumed rest api for another logistics company.  • Involved in writing c#, code and SQL databases. Software Lead Developer Kensoc - Austin, TX August 2017 to June 2018 • Working as Lead and developing websites using Asp.net, C#, MVC, WPF, CSS3, HTML5, Angular 2.0, WCF, JavaScript, and SQL server  • Developed Ecommerce Website using ASP.NET, SqlServer, CSS, Angular2.0  • Worked on development of online classified website using ASP. NET, WPF and SQL Server.  • Developed UI with JavaScript and Angular 2.0  • Converted legacy WPF UI into modern Angular 4/Bootstrap responsive UI, to work on any browser any device and resolution  • Wrote the new WCF services to be consumed by Angular 2.  • Ported the Legacy WPF UI into Angular 2, boot strap responsive UI.  • Developed prototype for customer for project proposal  • Developed quality control activities such as integration testing and code reviews.  • Created function specifications coded comments and other technical documentation.  • Collaborated with peer teams for review and analysis of system requirements.  • Involvement in producing demo and/or Proof of Concept for Proposals  • Key role in process and workflow optimization for betterment of projects  • Prepared project plans and completed in time duration  • Technical and analytical support the project manager to keep the project on time delivery  • Conducting code reviews for the development team  • Involved in UI Design and Business layer  • Wrote Stored Procedures, Functions, Views and Trigger in SQL Server.  • Did setup of project initial setup and source code management using GIT and get lab. Software Developer Kensoc - San Jose, CA September 2015 to July 2017 • Worked as Software Front End Developer using Bootstrap, CSS3, JavaScript, HTML5, Angular 2.0 and ASP.Net, MVVM, WPF, C#  • Developed application using responsive future for mobile application  • Ported all WPF .NET core logic that was used by WPF, with new event model.  • Ported old data access layer written in ADO.NET into Entity Framework  • Involvement in producing demo and/or Proof of Concept for Proposals  • Played Key role in process and workflow optimization for betterment of projects  • Implemented prototype using Angular2  • Prepared Technical Design Documents.  • Implemented Business Layer using C# code.  • Did setup of project initial setup and source code management using git and get lab  • Developed architectural design and developed architecture website using JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX and Bootstrap  • Developed consulting website using HTML5, JavaScript, CSS3 and Bootstrap.  • Developed responsive website using HTML, Bootstrap, and CSS using Eclipse. Software Engineer/Consultant Teamware Solutions/Tata Consultancy Services - Bengaluru, Karnataka November 2009 to May 2010 Client: IMS Pharmaceuticals, USA    • Understood the requirements and architecture documents provided by the client. Quickly learned life science and healthcare domain. Designed, developed and enhanced various modules  • Implemented SQL Server 2010 and wrote queries for database backend  • Worked with WPF for UI Development. Worked with XAML  • Integrated SSIS and Workflow  • Developed WebAPI and integrated with application  • Implemented LINQ and Jquery.  • Involved in Unit Testing for Dependency Injection  • Understood requirement and designed macros and unit test cases for the assigned project modules  • Participated in clients meetings and discussed all project development activities and issues at weekly meetings Software Engineer SLK software Pvt. Ltd - Bengaluru, Karnataka July 2008 to November 2009 Client: Land America Bank, USA  • Understood requirements and architecture documents provided by the client. Developed and enhanced various banking and finance modules for a client using C# and Visual Studio 2008.  • Developed ASP.NET and Silverlight frontend application.  • Integrated Web services with application  • Worked on bugs fixing in existing development and resolve few of them and also reported to responsible persons.  • Wrote JavaScript and worked on deployment web services.  • Did manual testing of my development before submitting to project source control.  • Discussion and weekly status update to the client.    • Client: Western Union, USA  • Understood requirements architecture different modules like loan and properties. Studied the architecture documents provided by the client.  • Developed ASP.NET windows application  • Created Crystal reports.  • Developed work flow management, database, and a System module.  • Communicating all development activities to the client at daily meetings. Software engineer trainee Cadila pharmaceuticals - Ahmedabad, Gujarat July 2004 to May 2005 • Developed internal application using VB.Net.  • Created crystal report and database using MS Access. Education Master of Science in Industrial Mathematics & Computer Applications North Gujarat University 2005 Bachelor of Science in Mathematics North Gujarat University 2002