IT Consultant Software/Mobile & Web Developer IT Consultant <span class="hl">Software</span>/Mobile &amp; Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> Oakwood, GA Software developer with 2 years experience in the business sector, Analysis, Design, Development and Implementation of corporate information systems, IT project management and IT consultant in business environments.  Knowledge in the Java programming language (This first as the main language), HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, Angular and Android.  I am an enthusiastic, passionate, visionary, creative and objective person, who always seeks to improve processes and evaluates situations to make the best decisions, high analytical capacity to solve problems and make correct decisions. Effective working both as a team and individually and excellent ability to learn new technologies. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Consultant Software/Mobile & Web Developer Precision Vista - Saint Louis, MI June 2018 to Present Currently, I provide consulting and support in the implementation of corporate software within companies, this type of consulting covers the entire life cycle of the project, using the methodologies that fit the needs of the company.    In this way the area of RESEARCH and DEVELOPMENT (R & D) of the companies is strengthened and it allows to launch products of high impact to the market.    Within the framework of business provided to companies, the development of software that covers the entire life cycle of the same, generating innovative and high-quality solutions is contemplated.    Provide technical support, permanent training and support in each process required within the IT area.    FUNCTIONS    FRONTEND / BACKEND development in new projects.    Administration of databases (SQL SERVER, MYSQL) within the company.    Design and implementation of software using the suite of JBOSS and UBERFIRE of RedHat.  Design, implementation and maintenance of the company's website.    Administration and management of e-commerce campaigns using Magento.    Technical support windows operating systems.    Hardware technical support for the different peripherals of the computer. Ing. Consultor Software Az Smart Technology - Medellín, Antioquia March 2016 to May 2018 It is a Colombian company based in the main cities of the country, dedicated to the development of software for the productive sector and offers GPS technology for the geolocation of vehicles, business transport fleets, people and business assets.    FUNCTIONS    Corporate Technological Consultant dedicated to support different clients in the use of the AVL (Automatic Vehicle Location) platform, among the functions performed are mentioned: Software Platform Training (AVL), Electronic Diagnostics of GPS hardware equipment, information analysis GPS to identify anomalies in WEB reports, design of IT projects and new technologies within the company, Approval of new GPS units, data frame analysis (HEX), Development and use of Web Socket technologies and Web Services (API REST) . Junior Software Developer Locate GPS - Medellín, Antioquia February 2014 to January 2016 ACHIEVEMENTS  To successfully develop the integration of several REST API services in the company's application, which allowed clients to access new services by being able to offer other functionalities and thus choose us against the competition.  Improve the architecture of the Database when generating Querys that optimized the consumption of the data. Education Academic in Information Systems Analyst SENA - Medellin, CO January 2015 to October 2017 Course in Web Developer Alicante Spain University - Medellin January 2016 to December 2016 Academic in Technologist in Computer Systems University Institution Salazar y Herrera - Medellin June 2011 to April 2013 Diplomat in Financial Management Analysis SENA - Medellin January 2011 to December 2011 Skills MySQL, Javascript, Android, HTML 5, Java (3 years), Microsoft Office (5 years), Network Security (4 years)