Personal Project Personal Project Eatontown, NJ Mobile developer focused on iOS-based projects using Objective - C and Swift with experience in Agile Methodologies, HealthKit, Unit Test, UI Test, and BLE. Work Experience Personal Project KARNE App Ventures July 2017 to Present Flames with Friends App  Used languages: Swift  OS: iOS  Used technologies: JSON, Core Data, Git, Facebook API, Crashlytics, Cocoapods, Firebase, Admob, Alamofire    Flames with Friends is an App that matches yourself and your friends using their names. It also has the option to connect to Facebook to see all of the user's Facebook friends and match with them without having to type their names. You can also share your results on Facebook. Software Engineer - Mobile Development VALIDIC July 2014 to December 2015 Used languages: Objective C, Swift  OS: iOS  Used technologies: JSON, Core Data, Multithreading, GCD, Git, Agile Methodologies, Unit Test, CoreBluetooth, HealthKit, Tomaz Appledoc, Crashlytics    1. Validic Mobile Library - A library that simplifies the connection of apps to multiple Validic supported devices such as; Heart Rate Monitors, Blood Pressure Monitors, Scales, Glucose Meters, etc. via bluetooth. The library also aggregates all of HealthKit data and pushed to Validic servers.    ? Part of the development of the library for iOS  ? Developed the HealthKit Data aggregator for the library  ? Developed under Agile principle. Used Jira for story management.  ? Used git, pull requests and code reviews for code collaboration.  ? Created unit tests for all logic functions in the library.  ? Transitioned library sample apps to Swift.    2. Bluetooth App    ? Created a bluetooth app that was used by a partner hospital for remote monitoring of patients.  ? The app handles bluetooth connection of medical devices that transmits data via the app to Validic's server. Software Engineer - Mobile Development STRATPOINT GLOBAL OUTSOURCING INC 2012 to 2013 Used languages: Objective C  OS: iOS  Used technologies: XCode 4, XCode 5, Autolayout, JSON, Core Data, Multithreading, GCD, Subversion, Git  APIs: Facebook API, Twitter API  3rd Party Libraries: Three20, HockeyKit, Flurry, MBProgressHUD, AFNetworking, JSONKit    1. AppExpress/UFM iOS Application Generator for businesses.  https://www.linkedin.com/company-beta/2487281/    ? Added a new feature for making appointments via Setster  ? Added a Gallery page to view photos  ? Added an RSS/Blog feed parser and reader  ? Made various bug fixes that results to crashing, invalid results etc.    1. AllClear ID Mobile App, An identity protection that includes Fraud Detection, Monthly Reports, and Fast & Secure Phone Alerts when your identity is at risk.  *Not available in the Appstore anymore    ? Helped in the iOS6 compatibility  ? Helped in fixing problems with Twitter and Facebook integration.  ? Made bug fixes that results to crashing  ? App already in the App Store.    1. Sayv, an app provides immediate access to all your favorite local businesses with money saving deals  https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/sayv/id461974333?mt=8    ? Fixed bugs and updated the app.  ? App already in the App Store    1. ChinaGlaze, a universal app that showcases upcoming and available nail polish colors, provides an ordering form and provides preview on how each colors will look like on different hand complexions.  *Not available in the Appstore anymore    ? Created and implemented the fill up form for Business info submission and comments and suggestions.  ? App already in the AppStore    5. LinearLinc, an iPhone app that activates and deactivates security alarms and also providing history and logs of previous state of the alarms.  ? Built the app from the ground up.  ? Made support for 4-inch screen devices. Software Developer HERBS & SPICES 2011 to 2012 Used languages: Objective C, JSON, PHP  OS: iOS  Used Tools: XCode    1. Photographer's app Template  • Created a template for photographers and studios who would want to showcase their works on a mobile app.    1. Company's Website  • Made four (4) different websites for the company    Used languages: PHP, Javascript, HTML5 and CSS Software Engineer MELVIN DAVE CONSULTING 2010 to 2011 1. RENTi Web and iPhone App  https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/renti-tenant/id624125118?mt=8    • Added new features for the existing RENTi mobile app  • Made the layout for the emails being sent by the website.  • Updated the existing backend for the iPhone app  • App already in the app store.    1. Shoots Game App for Singapore  https://itunes.apple.com/ph/app/shoots/id431199019?mt=8    • Developed Shoots game for the Mayor of South West District and Singapore's Minister of State.  • App already in the app store (Not shown in US App Store) Education BS in Software Engineering DE LA SALLE UNIVERSITY - Manila 2004 to Present Skills Arduino, C++, Git, Javascript, Objective c, Swift, Mysql, Sqlite Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Languages  Objective C, Swift, C++, JavaScript    Databases  MySQL, SQLite, CoreData    TOOLS AND UTILITIES  CoreBluetooth, Git, Arduino, Node-Red