Full Stack Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Developer - United Airlines Chicago, IL • Around 7 years of full stack development experience in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) which includes Analysis, Design, Development, Implementation and Testing of web based, enterprise business applications using the JAVA/J2EE technologies  • Experience in developing Web Applications with various Open Source frameworks: JSF 1.2, Spring Framework 2.0/3.0/4.0, Web Flow, Jakarta Struts Framework 1.1/1.2/2.0, Struts Validation and Tiles Frameworks.  • Extensive knowledge on the Spring Modules like Spring IOC and Dependency Injection, Spring MVC, Spring Batch, Spring Web Flow, Spring Security (Authentication and Authorization), Spring AOP for Code Modularity and Spring Boot  • Developed and deployed Micro Services based applications using Spring Boot along with Spring Rest and Node Js with Express and Hapi.js  • Spring boot with Hibernate combination where it has a predefined MVC architecture which made me to run all batch jobs easily and quickly.  • Implemented exception handling in Java Spring boot for REST API by making use of Exception Handler and Controller Advice annotations.  • Well experienced on implementing SOA (Service Oriented Architecture) using Spring REST to create REST resources that include several components like Jersey Framework, spring Boot, JAX-RS and used WADL for documenting REST API'S.  • Worked on SOAP protocol using JAX WS and integrated Apache CXF, AXIS-2 for WS-Remote Messaging, WS -Security, WS- Policy and other specifications and automated documentation using Swagger and WSDL.  • Experienced in configuring and deploying applications on different servers such as Apache Tomcat, Web logic, IBM WebSphere, JBoss.  • Loaded and transformed large sets of structured, semi structured and unstructured data using Hadoop/Big Data concepts  • Experience in developing Map Reduce Programs using Apache Hadoop for analyzing the big data as per the requirement.  • Expertise to interact with relational databases using ORM frameworks like Hibernate, Spring Data, JPA, IBatis, MyBatis, Java Persistence API (JPA), Hibernate's second level cache - Ehcache.  • Exploring with the Spark for improving the performance and optimization of the existing algorithms in Hadoop using Spark Context, Spark-SQL, Data Frame, Pair RDD's, Spark YARN.  • Have good knowledge on different databases like PostgreSQL, MySQL, DB2, Oracle 13c/11g, Microsoft SQL Server, NoSQL DB (Raven DB, Mongo DB and Cassandra, Couch DB, Redis,  • Dynamo DB) and good experience in writing stored procedures, functions and triggers using PL/SQL in JDBC, ODBC and in WebLogic server  • Experience in writing stored procedures, triggers, views and functions using PL/SQL scripts and embedded DDL and DML statements in PL/SQL blocks  • Experience in Developing User Interface (UI) Rich Web Applications using Front End/User Interface (UI) Technologies like HTML4/5, XHTML, DHTML, CSS2/3(using SASS and LESS), Type Script, Bootstrap and AJAX by managing all facets and pipelines of application.  • Expertise in implementing the features of ES6 like arrows, modules, block scoping, promises and enhanced object literals,  • Experienced in working with MVVM design flow using client-side JavaScript framework Angular 2.x/4. X/5.0 with NGRX  • Expertise in using shadow DOM which is a feature of Angular 5 to encapsulate visual behavior.  • Good knowledge in providing support for passing messages between publishers and subscribers using observables as a part of Angular 5.  • Experience with features of Angular 4 like NgModules which configure the injector and the compiler and help organize related things together.  • Proficient with Angular JS, Backbone JS, Ember JS, Knockout JS, Ext JS for customize front end app development and to achieve MVC design flow.  • Well experienced in view rendering using jQuery, React JS, Handlebar JS and implementing React JS with Redux and Flux patterns to attain MVC functionality.  • Well experienced in developing Dynamic Single Page Application (SPA) using MEAN (MongoDB Express Angular Node) full stack development tool Kit  • Good amount of hands on Experience in developing server-side JavaScript frameworks using Node JS (Hapi JS, Express JS) to build event driven, non-blocking I/O model web applications  • Experience in installing dependencies using Package Managers like NPM, BOWER and running automated task using Gulp, Grunt and webpack for bundling, minification, loading images, configuration  • Experience on UI testing with Karma, Jasmine, Protractor for Angular JS and Mocha, Chai for React JS  • Unit tested web services using Junit, JMeter, Mockito Easy mock, SpringJunitRunner, Spock, Test NG and hence achieved the goals of Test Driven Development (TDD)  • Well experienced in using various AWS (Amazon Web Services) Iaas (Infrastructure as a Service) Components like EC2 for running applications on virtual machines, S3 and Glacier for storing and long term back up of data, EBS for persistent block level storage, Elastic Cache,  • Dynamo DB, SQS for message queueing, RDS for setting relational database in cloud and Lambda for server less program functions  • Expertise in using Microsoft Azure which is cloud computing service for building, testing, deploying and managing applications and services through a global network of Microsoft managed data centers.  • Good Knowledge and Experience on implementing Spring Cloud- Netflix OSS Stack for micro Services deployment, Zuul for API Gateway for routing, Hystix (Circuit Breaker) for latency and fault tolerance and Eureka for service registration  • Experience in applying JMS (Java Messaging Service) for reliable information exchange across Java applications using Apache Kafka, RabbitMQ, ActiveMQ and IBM MQ to communicate from Client to Server  • Good knowledge of Splunk architecture and various components. Expert in Splunk Development, Configuration and Administration and used Kibana to view using Elastic search (ELK)  • Knowledge of Elastic Search, used for supporting distributed search by allowing start with one machine and extend further to other machines.  • Hands on experience in implementation of PCF (Pivotal Cloud Foundry) Paas (Platform as a Service) services such as Pivotal Application Service, Pivotal Container Service and Pivotal Functional Service to continuously deliver applications on to the cloud.  • Implemented security functionality OAuth 2.0, Spring security, SSL and site minder (SSO), secure authentication with LDAP OAuth2 for generating tokens in the application using Spring Security, JWT for producing tokens  • Well experienced with build tools like Gradle, Maven and ANT.  • Implemented Docker container service, build pipe line Jenkins, Bamboo and GoCD (Go Continuous Delivery) to achieve Continuous Integration and Continuous Deployment that can run on the cloud or on-premises  • Knowledge on various Docker components like Docker Engine, Hub, Machine, Compose and Docker Registry.  • Hands on experience in managing this Docker Container using Kubernetes with zero downtime deployment.  • Used Kubernetes Linux container for deploying and scaling containerized applications.  • Good practical experience with Java-based logging utility i.e. log4J and slf4j  • Good knowledge on Drools Rule Engines which corresponds to validating BRMS (Business Rules Management System)  • Experience in Java Thread Dump Analysis and familiar with thread dump techniques  • Have knowledge on Application monitoring tools like New Relic and Dyna Trace  • Strong Knowledge on automated java-based integration testing and behavioral testing of the applications using Selenium and Cucumber respectively  • Good experience in using Software development methodologies like Agile (Scrum), Water Fall and Rational Application Development methodologies.  • Experience in using Mule soft which is light weight Java based Enterprise Service Bus (ESB) which allows connecting applications together quickly and easily, enabling them to exchange data.  • Experience in using open source framework Apache Camel which for message-oriented middleware with a rule-based routing and mediation engine that provides a Java object-based implementation of the Enterprise Integration Patterns (EIP) using an application programming interface to configure routing and mediation rules.  • Expertise in working with JAVA8 features like Functional Interfaces, Stream API, Time API, Transaction Management, Exception Handling, Collection API, Lambda Expressions. Work Experience Full Stack Developer United Airlines - Chicago, IL September 2018 to Present Description: United airlines is a major united states airline with its headquarters at Chicago, IL. The airline operates over 5, 400 flights daily. Worked on whole Life cycle process of Software Development, from the creation of Software Development Request (SDR) to Deployment, which covers creation of design documents as well. Worked in a team where some critical development requirements were handled without any additional support and met Qualitative delivery.    Responsibilities:  • The back-end use of Node JS, Express JS, MongoDB and Mongoose, the complete MERN Stack to provide RESTful API.  • Worked closely with internal clients to define business objectives, project scope, solution space and design/development approach for various research applications.  • Utilized Modernizer extensively to build HTML5/CSS3 based page layouts that are cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant.  • Implemented client side Interface using React JS.  • Build user interfaces differently by breaking them into components using React JS and used a real, full featured programming language to render views, with React JS.  • Worked on responsive design and developed a single ISOMORPHIC responsive website that could be served to desktop, Tablets and mobile users using React JS.  • Implemented application testability and diagnostics and fixing bugs with the help of REDUX(Reducers) architecture.  • Responsible for implementing UI mockups, integrating third party react libraries, and handling/creating Redux store data.  • Developed React/Redux code using functional programming best practices to enable efficient pure function testing.  • Experienced in working with Redux and Alt JS architecture.  • Utilized create-react-app to launch product to stay update with the most current webpack and babel build configurations.  • Handled Http Requests using Axios which supports Promise API functionality native to JS ES6.  • Extensively Used Jenkins as Continuous Integration tools to deploy the Spring Boot Microservices to Pivotal Cloud Foundry (PCF) using build pack.  • Used Pivotal Cloud Foundry to quickly build, deploy and update the applications.  • Used JWT (JSON web tokens) mechanism for authentication and authorization security configurations using Node JS.  • Used Node JS for the communication to the server through Restful API and added user validations & permissions by using it.  • Debugged the website using Chrome Developer's tools and hardcoded the API into script for getting the information about merchants using Node Js.  • Created and consumed RESTful API using Expres.js to provide centralized logic and reusable data retrieval build on top of Node.js  • Involved in multi-tiered J2EE design utilizing Spring Inversion of Control (IOC) architecture and Spring JPA.  • Involved in using Spring Data JPA (Java Persistence API) framework and JPA Specification criteria builder to work with dynamic queries in java.  • Worked on writing SQL queries for PostgreSQL databases to build PL/SQL functions, store procedure, triggers, views and materialized views.  • Utilized AWS S3 for images uploading and imageMagick for resizing for scalable performance  • Performed unit testing with Mocha and Chai JavaScript test framework.  • Developed Unit test scripts using Junit and Spock. Implemented logging using Log4j.  • Designed and developed independent Microservices using Spring Boot Rest Controller model and are deployed on UNIX boxes.  • Employed Spring Boot for initialize and bootstrapping the build configuration for the boot based web applications.  • Development of cloud hosted web applications and REST APIs using Spring Boot with embedded Tomcat.  • Extensively used Mocha and Chai JavaScript unit testing tools for testing JavaScript pages.  • Worked with Babel and Webpack in application build and deployment processes.  • Implemented testing with Junit Framework using Mockito, Spring Junit Runner, JMeter, PowerMock and MockMVC.  • Created plug ins for an in-house data ingestion framework to extract data from multiple sources like Apache Kafka, Database, file systems and Messaging Queues.  • Able to create and manage External Lookups in Splunk to match event data with description.  • Configure and Install Splunk Enterprise and Apache Server for user and role authentication and SSO.  • Created micro service plugin for service worker to read in info via RabbitMQ message bus to create and send SNS messages to AWS SNS topic  • Implemented Spring Cloud-Netflix OSS Stack along with using Ribbon for client-side load balancing, Netflix Zuul API Gateway with Eureka service registry for reverse proxy infrastructure and Hystrix Circuit Breaker for fault tolerance.  • Ran Log aggregations, website Activity tracking and commit log for distributed system using Apache Kafka.  • Deployed and monitored scalable infrastructure on Amazon web services specifically on AWS EC2.  • Used Cloud formation and launch configurations to automate repeatable provisioning of AWS resources for applications.  Environment: React, Babel, Redux, Axios, Nodejs, Webpack, Pivotal cloud foundry, Jenkins, Docker, Mongoose, MongoDB, Chai, Mocha, Spring boot, Rabbit MQ, Hibernate, Apache kafka, AWS. Full Stack Developer Cerner Corporation - Kansas City, MO September 2017 to August 2018 Description: Cerner corporation is an American supplier of Health information technology solutions, services, devices and hardware. Cerner's world headquarters campus is at north Kansas City, MISSOURI. My role is to analyze and modify all J2EEapplications and prepare required documents.    Responsibilities:  ? Coordinated with project managers, business analyze new proposed ideas Requirements, designed the integrated tool, developed and implemented all the modules.  ? Developed User Interface using React JS, HTML5, CSS/CSS3(SAAS), Bootstrap 4.0, Redux, MongoDB.  ? Responsible to style, look and feel of the web page with LESS that extends CSS with dynamic behavior such as variable, mixing, operations and functions.  ? Implemented various screens for the front end using React.js and used various predefined components from NPM and Redux library.  ? Worked in using React.js Router, Forms, Animations, Keys, components, Events and Flux concept.  ? Responsible for React UI and architecture. Including Tree, Building components library, Table Grid and Slide-View.  ? Implemented stable React components and stand-alone functions to be added to any future pages.  ? Developed a dashboard based on Ajax calls with Business Customers Count, Flags, Real-time graphs for Analytical Reporting using Node.js.  ? Used Express.js which is assertive, fast, essential and moderate web framework of Node.js that helps manage a server and routes.  ? Post-processors, transpires, tests etc. based on build target.  ? Developed REST API services using Node JS, Express JS, Body-Parse and other node modules to serve the web application with JSON data.  ? Developed readable and writable streams of Node JS to process the data from external means of the application.  ? Added Excel-Building to download the Tabular data in Excel Format using React.  ? Created a pipeline from Mongo DB cluster by configuring Mongoose Connector, to sync with multiple sources like Elastic Search or another Mongo DB.  ? Used Pivotal Cloud Foundry, the connection/service binding details are injected from the deployed cloud platform itself.  ? Used a microservice architecture, designed and developed RESTful web services using Apache CXF and Spring Boot framework.  ? Installed a single node Elasticsearch "cluster" to index MongoDB for use in a NodeJS, Express on a native AWS EC2 Ubuntu 14.04 instances.  ? Worked with build tools like Bower, NPM and Grunt.  ? Maintaining and troubleshooting Cassandra Clusters this includes monitoring and performing troubleshooting as per requirements.  ? Designed, developed and maintained PostgreSQL Data base architecture.  ? Used build tools to bundle the application through webpack and used Gulp for task automation of minification of Angular scripts.  ? Designed, built and deployed application using the AWS stack (Including EC2, Mongo DB, Docker, Kubernetes Orchestration container(EKS)) focusing on high-availability, fault tolerance and auto-scaling.    ? Deploying the applications using Docker container services and building continuous integration(CI) and continuous deployment(CD) pipeline using Jenkins with GitHub.    ? Implemented Kibana for centralized logging and monitoring that builds on Elasticsearch of the application data for analytics and visualization of the user's login.  ? Employed the Single Sign On (SSO) authentication using Site Minder for logging to the application from different websites.  ? Developed unit test scripts using Karma and Jasmine for Angular 2 framework and Mocha for Node JS API end points.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, Express JS, JavaScript, React JS, Redux, Node JS, Bootstrap, REST API, Load Balancer, Mongoose Connector, Mongo DB, REST administrations, Cassandra, Docker, Mocha, Jasmine, Karma, Gulp, SSO Authentication, Web Pack, Kubernetes, Maven and Jenkins. GIT, Jenkins, AWS Services, Elastic Cloud Compute(EC2). Java Developer/UI Developer California Bank& Trust, CA June 2015 to August 2017 Description: National Bank & Trust Company is one of the secured financial institutions that serves huge domain of customers. Auto Billing System is a web application built on Spring MVC framework. The scope of the project involves the design and development of a Web based application to provide online billing services. The application provides various functionalities such as creation of account, payment of bills, enroll in automatic recurring bill payment and Review Payments.    Responsibilities:  • Developed and designed User Interface using JavaScript, HTML, CSS, DOM, XHTML, AJAX, Bootstrap, Less, AngularJS.  • Created and enhanced websites for clients to increase online presence and sales by using some of the latest technologies, including JavaScript, CSS3, HTML, JQuery UI, handlebars.  • Wrote application level code to perform client-side validation using jQuery and JavaScript.  • Used Angular two-way binding and Implemented the search functionality for Internal Application using Angular JS.  • Extensively used $http service to make AJAX calls and consume JSON response across numerous services.  • Involved in implementing the complete Application in the in-build SOA Architecture with Angular.js.  • Created a demo website running on a Node.js, using the Express framework, Jade, Angular.js for front end MVC/templating.  • Configured Express JS node http framework to set up middle-wares to respond to HTTP requests and used its front-end tooling like web packs, starter packs, boiler plates efficiently.  • Involved in Enhancement of existing application utilizing Angular JS, created HTML navigation menu that is role based wherein menu items changes dynamically based on the values derived from the database in the form of XML.  • Involved in the migration of YUI screens to intuitive EmberJS screens.  • Worked with Core Java concepts like Collections Framework, multithreading, Memory management.  • Used multithreading in programming to improve overall performance using Singleton design pattern in Hibernate Utility class  • Implemented REST web service calls using JSON, JAXRS formats provided to be integrated on the front end  • Created both xml and java configuration files for setting up Apache CXF as JAX-RS runtime, Spring Data and Spring JDBC template technologies.  • Used Spring ORM module to integrate with Hibernate.  • Used ORM tool Hibernate along with spring framework to deal with database operations.  • Involved in development of POJO classes and writing Hibernate query language (HQL) queries.  • Implemented logging using log4j and Spring AOP.  • Implemented various cross-project functionalities using Spring AOP.  • Used Spring JTA Transaction manager to remove the dependencies on the container.  • Implemented business layer of the application using Spring AOP, Spring IOC.  • Implemented the mechanism of logging and debugging with Log4j and JIRA. Involved in Unit testing of the application using Junit.  • Integrated Spring with Hibernate for data access from Oracle Database.  • Creating and maintaining database links between different Oracle databases.  • Used Hibernate mappings, relationships between tables and entity classes to access and update information in the database.  • Hibernate Query Language (HQL) was used to perform various queries in the database.  • Involved in bug fixing during the System testing, Joint System testing and User acceptance testing. Deploying the applications and binding third party services like App Dynamics on Pivotal Cloud Foundry (PCF).  • Used Pivotal Cloud Foundry to quickly build, deploy and update the applications.  • Implemented Hibernate Second level of caching using Ehcache provider to get caching across session factory.  • Involved in Application Development using various Web/Application Servers like Apache Tomcat Server, IBM WebSphere.  • Implemented code for marshall and unmarshall technique using JAXB to parse XML to string object and vice versa  • Documented the REST API's using Swagger API for briefing the services involved in the application.  • Implemented the function to send and receive AMQP messages on RabbitMQ synchronously and asynchronously, and send JMS message on the edge device  • Developed test driven development code using JUnit and Mockito framework.  • Used Karma Test runner and Jasmine Testing frameworks.  • Primarily responsible for designing and implementing the application process flow with MuleSoft using Anypoint Studio and POST production support for all the API's. Java Developer Cloud Digital Media - Hyderabad, Telangana September 2012 to August 2014 Description: This Project aims to help the employees of Cloud Digital Media to refer candidates for open positions in the organization. Through this application admin can post new referral schemes for open positions in the organization and accordingly the employees can refer candidates and can get the benefit of cash rewards or gifts that are available under a referral scheme. This project also has various reports, which helps the admin to do a detailed analysis as per his criteria.    Responsibilities:  • Implemented Model View Controller (MVC-2) Architecture using Jakarta Struts framework at presentation tier.  • Used Struts frameworks and MVC design patterns to complete several projects with primarily focused on more complex areas of development including user interface design, batch processing, stored procedure development, XML, data exchange and integration.  • Validated all forms using Struts validation framework.  • Extensive use of Struts Framework for Controller components and view components.  • Implemented Spring IOC for inter connection between modules in our application.  • Created customized spring batch framework to run multiple processes step by step.  • Implemented connection pooling framework to process claims concurrently with multiple threads using spring batch with different split conditions based on volume of claims.  • Developed automated build files using Maven.  • Created Data Access Objects to fetch data from database with SQL queries integrate them with IBatis.  • Developed shell scripts used to monitor production applications, start and stop custom Java applications in Linux environment  • Implemented batch processes for reporting applications and modules using Korn shell scripts on Oracle database.  • Developed various helper classes which needed following core Java multithreaded programming and collection classes.  • Categorized salient level rule to every business rules base on the business needs. Use DROOLS as rules engine.  • Extensively used Junit & log4j for unit testing and logging.  • Designed and coded application components in an agile environment.  Environment: Struts Framework, Spring IOC, Spring Batch, Maven, Spring MVC, iBatis, SQL, Linux, Drools, Multithreading, Log4j. Associate Software Engineer ICrea Infotech - Hyderabad, Telangana January 2012 to August 2012 Description: This is a comprehensive and integrated Hospital Management System for a Super Specialty Hospital. This package is used to computerize the activities of a servicing system. This package contains four modules. They are Administration, Patient Care System, Health Services, and Auxiliary Services. Each module is having sub modules with in this sub modules will maintain storing, registering, details of joining patient details, and over all day activities maintains one database.    Responsibilities:  • Developed the application using Java, J2EE, Structs, JDBC.  • Development, resolving the issues/bugs, Code suggestions, Technical Issues and was involved in writing Stored Procedures, Triggers and Cursors.  • Created tables, views, Types, complex join queries and functions and modifications to existing database structure as required for addition of new features.  • Involved in Designing the Database Schema and writing the complex SQL queries.  • Used Hibernate as the DAO layer to access the database.  • Worked with Structs framework to design the MVC model for the application.  • Worked on SOAP based Client and Server Web services.  • Implemented Multithreading for handling multiple requests and for high performance.  • Worked on the Java Collections API for handling the data objects between the business layers and the front end.  • Worked with JAXB, SAXP and XML Schema for exporting data into XML format and importing data from XML format to database and JAXB in the web service's request data marshalling as well as unmarshaling process.  • Used Java Messaging Services(JMS) for reliable and asynchronous exchange of important information.  • Developed Unit test cases using JUnit.  • Deployed application on Client Linux server.  • Used ANT built tool for compiling and generating war file.  • Developed web services for sending and getting data from different applications.  • Used JDBC to access Oracle database for accessing the information.  • Used Junit test cases for regression testing and integrated with ANT build.  • Used Log4j to capture the log that includes runtime exceptions.  • Worked closely with system analyst to understand the technical requirements of the project.  • Created the design documents with use case diagram, class diagrams and sequence diagrams using Rational Rose.  Environment: Java, J2EE, Struct, JDBC, Hibernate, JAXB, SAXP, XML, Collections, Multithreading, SQL, JMS, Junit, ANT, Log4j, Rational Rose. Education Master's Skills Visual studio, C++, Git, Gradle, Javascript, Jenkins, Json, Php, Svn, Xml, Bea, Eclipse, Ejb, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jax, Jaxb, Jaxp, Node, Jquery, React, Nodejs, Angular Additional Information Technical Skills:    Web Development HTML5, SASS, CSS3, JavaScript, PHP, JSON, JQUERY, J2EE design pattern AJAX, XML, SOAP, REST, WADL, WSDL, JAXP, JAXB, JAX-RS, JAX-WS, S5, ES6  Databases MySQL, ORACLE, Mongo DB, DB2, MS SQL, SQL Server, RDBMS, Cassandra, Couch DB, Graph DB, Amazon DynamoDB.  Programming Languages C, C++, CORE JAVA, J2EE (SERVLETS, JSP, JDBC, JAVA BEANS, JSF, JNDI, EJB), Data Structures, SQL.  Operating System Windows, Linux, Unix, MS-DOS  Software Tools &  Testing Tools    BUILD (Ant, Bamboo, GoCD, Gradle, Grunt, Gulp, Jenkins, Maven, Maven 2, Bower)  LOGGING (Log4j, Slf4j, Commons Logging)  VERSION CONTROL (Git, SVN, Clear Case, Surround)  TESTING (Protractor, Jasmine along with Karma, Mockito, Mocha, Selenium, Spring JUnit 4)    IDEs worked on Eclipse, Sublime Text, Net Beans, IBM RAD, Visual studio, STS, BEA Web Logic Workshop  Frameworks AngularJS, NodeJS, BackboneJS, D3, Struts, JSF, Spring MVC, Hibernate, iBatis, JPA, JDBC  Application Servers Apache Tomcat Server, BEA Web Logic, IBM Web Sphere, JBOSS, Oracle Web Logic