ETL Developer, GRS OMNI Project ETL <span class="hl">Developer</span>, GRS OMNI Project ETL Developer, GRS OMNI Project Bentonville, AR • React JS UI developer with an extensive 6 years' experience on Software development and maintenance. Designed and developed complex software using both front end and backend technologies both at client locations and off-shore.  • Developed and Designed Solutions using Agile Software Development Methodology (Grooming Story, Daily Standup Meeting, Retrospective Meeting, Collaboration, Incident Meeting).  • Extensive experience in developing web pages using React JS, HTML/HTML5, XML, DHTML CSS/CSS3, SASS, LESS, JavaScript, React JS, Angular JS, JSON, Node.js, JQUERY.  • Responsible for development and maintenance of many reusable React JS components while working for the client Cigna.  • Responsible for developing front-end applications and user interactive web pages using web technologies like HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, React JS, jQuery, LESS and SASS.  • Designed and Developed REST API Micro services using Java, Spring Boot, Spring Netflix Cloud and Circuit Breaker Pattern.  • Designed and Developed the Micro services ORM using JPA (Caching Mechanisms, Mapping, Performance Tuning).  • Involved in writing the Behavioral Drive Development test cases for better of the system and user readability.  • Responsible for developing the dashboard using Splunk.  • Developed SQL queries to perform insert, update or delete operation on MySQL database  • Architected and designed multiple frontend applications for various clients like Cigna, BSNL.  • Currently part of the core development team for Walmart International OMNI Replenishment.  • 4 years of experience in working in different scrum teams following agile methodologies.  • 3 years of experience working at client location as technical lead and senior developer.  • Extremely adaptive and quick learner, able to learn the Data Stage in one week and worked as primary data stage developer for developing various jobs for different countries for finding on hand Distribution Center (DC)availabilities.  • Good experience in No SQL data bases like Mongo dB, Cassandra.  • Good experience working in Spring frameworks, spring mvc, spring security.  • Good experience in developing project on Spring Boot.  • Experience in all phase of SDLC like Requirement Analysis, Implementation and Maintenance, and extensive experience with Agile and SCRUM.  • Hands on experience in Retail, Education & Telecom Domain, 3rd Party tools like BMC Remedy Software and HP PPM (Project Portfolio Management).  • Expertise in React JS framework to develop the SPA.  • Experienced in React JS and working with React Flux architecture.  • Experienced in working with Redux architecture using complex Object-Oriented concepts in improving the performance of the websites.  • Experience in using React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, plus Redux, Animations and Flux concept.  • Good Experience in React.js for creating interactive UI's using One-way data flow, Virtual DOM, JSX, React Native concepts.  • Familiar with creating Custom Reusable React Components Library.  • Expertise in implementing the MVC architecture in backend applications using JAVA along with Spring, Servlets.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, RESTful Web Services using AJAX, JSON.  • Expertise in RESTful, SOAP web services to integrate between Application to Application  • Experience with front-end development with back-end system integration.  • Writing Unit Test Cases Using Jasmine and Karma in TDD (Test Driven Development).  • Experience in Version Control tools like CVS, GIT, SVN and Clear-Case for Source Code version management.  • Experience in Walmart private cloud like OneOps and public cloud like Azure and GC.  • Good experience in build tools like Looper and code review tool like SONAR.  • Have solid SQL Server fundamentals, with good understanding of scalability issues, i.e. compression, partitioning, locks, transactions.  • Able to identify and resolve intricate problems within no time. Good understanding of SLAs.  • Good expertise on batch monitoring, automation and production job monitoring  • and fixing.  • Have good hands on in creating Stored Procedures, Functions, Tables, Cursors, Hash tables and handling large data types.  • Experience with front-end development with back-end system integration.  • Expertise in using IDE tools such as Notepad ++, Web Matrix, Eclipse, Sublime Text Editor, IntelliJ IDEA, and used Visual Studio and Web Storm for UI development.  • Ability to work effectively while working as a team member as well as individually.  • Experience of working with application based on HTML, XML, XSD, Java & SQL.  • Good knowledge on backend data base (SQL)  • Prepared test project status reports and metrics, test dash board for multiple projects.  • Good understanding of requirements gathering and analysis.  • Excellent inter-personal and communication skill. Work Experience ETL Developer, GRS OMNI Project Walmart - Bentonville, AR March 2019 to Present continuing Currently working in the development project for Supply Chain department of Wal-Mart. The part of the project I am working developed using Ring fencing technology in web-based application. It reduced the time taken to deliver from DC to Store or DC to Vendor. It works both in Walmart.com & Brick & mortar application. I have worked in all the phases for this project for last six months on analysis, design,build,testing, implementation and support.    Responsibilities:  • Analyzing mainframe jobs using DataStage.  • Designing different jobs using DataStage pallet.  • creating new jobs using IBM Infosphere DataStage and quality stage designer 11.7  • Use Erwin for Logical and Physical database modeling of the warehouse.  • Responsible for database schemas creation based on the logical models.  • Involve in performance tuning of targets, sources, mappings, and sessions.  • Writing complex SQL scripts to avoid Informatica Look-ups to improve the performance as the volume of the data is heavy.  • Creating and monitoring sessions using workflow manager and workflow monitor.  • Developing and maintaining ETL (Data Extraction, Transformation and Loading) mappings using Informatica Designer 8.6 to extract the data from multiple source systems that comprise databases like Oracle 10g, SQL Server 7.2, flat files to the Staging area, EDW and then to the Data Marts.  • Create mappings using different look-ups like connected, unconnected and Dynamic look-up with different caches such as persistent cache  • Perform Impact Analysis of the changes done to the existing mappings and provided the feedback  • Create mappings using reusable components like worklets, mapplets using other reusable transformations.  • Participate in providing the project estimates for development team efforts for the off shore as well as on-site.  • Coordinate and monitor the project progress to ensure the timely flow and complete delivery of the project.    • Worked on Informatica Source Analyzer, Mapping Designer & Mapplet, and Transformations. UI DEVELOPER Cigna - Blue Bell, PA October 2014 to December 2017 This project involved the maintenance & enhancement of INTERLINK application in Cigna. INTERLINK was developed using Ten fold's universal application platform. It was a web based health insurance policy system for independent agent & customer service representatives. The application reduced the time for agents to issue a policy, handle billing, claims & policy issues. This application involved projects & production supports. The project & support work went through one or more of the usual SDLC of analysis, design,build,testing, implementation & support  Responsibilities:    • Design, develop and test HTML5, CSS3,JavaScript, jQuery and React.JS that meets accessibility and web browser standards for website.  • Responsible for developing front-end applications and user interactive web pages using web technologies like HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, Angular JS, jQuery, LESS and SASS.  • Responsible for implementing Best Practices (Clean Code Standards, GIT Strategy, Extensive Code Review, Unbreakable Coding Practices  • Responsible for implementing Best Practices (Clean Code Standards, GIT Strategy, Extensive Code Review, Unbreakable Coding Practices  • Responsible for running the Sonar report and checking the code smells and vulnerability.  • Involved in testing the application in QA environment.  • Used Git Extensions for Version controlling.  • Responsible for developing the dashboard using Splunk.  • Developed SQL queries to perform insert, update or delete operation on MySQL database  • Worked on UI/UX overhaul and performance enhancement resulting in by 93% load time improvement.  • Have improved page load time on multiple occasions.  • Designed CSS templates for use in all pages on the website working with CSS Background, positioning, text, border, margin, padding, and table.  • Applied optimization techniques to reduce page size and load times to enhance user experience using sprites.  • Developed user interface by using the React JS development.  • Unit tested all the UI code using mocha and jasmine.  • Was responsible for frontend and backend integration.  • Implemented react JS code to handle cross browser compatibility issues in Mozella, IE 7, 8, 9, Safari and FF.  • Used React-Router to turn application into Single Page Application.  • Worked in using React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations and Flux concept.  • Used Web services (SOAP and RESTful) for transmission of large blocks of XML/JSON.  • Worked on responsive design and developed a single ISOMORPHIC responsive website that could be served to desktop, Tablets and mobile users using React.js.  • Implemented the Drag and Drop functionality using React-Draggable  • Used React-Autocomplete for creating google maps location search on the webpage Added Excel-Builder to download the Tabular data in Excel format using react.  • Component for UX-Library consisted of Button, Checkbox, Input, Icons, Toggle Button, Dropdown, Multi-Level Dropdown and many more.  • In Phase Two, worked closely with the Back-End team to display data using the Custom Components, library Components, and Redux.  • Added Dynamic Functionality by creating and dispatching Action Creators that deployed Actions.  • Optimized animation logic with optimistic functions to increase performance in rendering.  • Worked with backend engineers to optimize existing API calls to create efficiencies by deprecating unneeded API calls.  • Called the Restful web services calls for POST, PUT, DELETE and GET methods.  • Used Apache Kafka queue for the integration purpose.  • Used Object Oriented Programming concepts to develop UI components that could be reused across the Web Application.  • Extensively used Git for version controlling and regularly pushed the code to GitHub.  • Used JIRA as the bug tracking system to track and maintain the history of bugs/issues on everyday basis.  • Worked with JASMINE unit test framework to write unit tests for JavaScript code.  • Monitoring the offshore work and providing technical help to the offshore team for their JIRA tickets.  • Interacted with Testing Team, Scrum Masters and Business Analysts for fixing of Issues.  • Performed the System Testing, Regression Testing for Complete UI after fixing the Issues which are reported by Testing Team.  • Have experience of deploying application on public cloud (Azure) and used azure service as platform for the aplication.    Environment:  HTML 5, CSS3, JavaScript, React JS, My SQL, XML, XSL, XSLT, JSON, Git hub, Restful API, JIRA, jQuery. Software Tester Bharat Sanchar Nigam Ltd - Bhubaneshwar, Orissa June 2012 to December 2013 Worked as C, C++, SQL developer and support analyst. Provided operational support to ten applications that were supporting many end clients across different department. Have performed on call support analyst role for almost two years.    Responsibilities:  • Managed MS SQL Server database environment to support data migration, backups and recoveries during testing phase of software development life-cycle.  • Reviewed and assessed existing data-drive software applications to support new features, upgrades, and helped with performance improvements.  • Captured and analyzed database activity to identify improvements in indexing, file structure, maintenance processes as well as query performance.  • Planned and implemented capacity expansion in order to ensure that the company's databases were. scalable.  • Identified issues with the database and resolved them.  • Participated and coordinated with the team for projects to design, implement and support applications that perform ETL operations with external data sources and SQL Server.  • Modified existing database systems by participating in all aspects of SDLC, including requirement gathering & analysis, system design, implementation, testing, deployment as well as sustainment.  • Participated in team meetings to determine data requirements for the project and assisted in preparing appropriate database.  • Wrote SQL short SQL modules based on the functional design and technical specification of the project.  • Exhibit a strong sense of urgency for high severity incidents. Able to assess the customer impact and provide tactical solutions.  • Excellent communication skills. Demonstrate ability to communicate effectively with both technical and non-technical individuals.  • Implement DevOps best practices and document processes to maintain high availability detailed notes for audit purposes.  • Experience with providing generic solutions and avoid re-occurring of incidents and proactively monitor the production environment and identify the potential incidents.  • Was responsible to address root cause for several burning issues.  • Worked with development team and doing the log analysis. Finding the root cause.  • Worked on the test documentation.  • Integrated test suite to the source code.  • Coordinated with off-shore, on-shore & the client for issues.  • Helped with troubleshooting using system and application event logs, job scheduling, SQL queries.  • Prepared troubleshooting documents and training guides for the team  • Manage SSL certificate renewals, enforcement of SOA AAA policies in all IBM DataPower environments.  • Support team implemented over 200 changes annually with less than 5% error rate requiring rework.  Documented issues in tracking tool and monitored issues throughout solution and closure.    Environment:  C,C++, SQL,, Data Stage ETL, JAVA, CSS3, JavaScript, React JS, REST and SOAP Webservices, My SQL, XML, XSL, XSLT, JSON, Git hub, Restful API, JIRA. Education Bachelor's in Education Technology under Biju Patnaik University of Technology 2011 Git Extension Skills ETL, Datastage, Data Stage, Data Warehouse