Assistant Category Manager Assistant Category Manager Assistant Category Manager - The North West Company Intl Renton, WA Work Experience Assistant Category Manager The North West Company Intl - Bellevue, WA 2017 to Present Assist Apparel Buyer with purchase orders, allocation of items, and negotiating buying terms with vendors. Set up and maintain new vendors and items in system. Assist accounting department with price and purchase order discrepancies. Perform daily and weekly sales analysis; review margin performance and online consumer finance. Aid in product assortment and business opportunities.  • Helped generate sales increase of $1M over previous year as part of a 3-person team.  • Plan and execute advertising strategies for the department independently.  • Coordinate with store managers to solve problems and manage requests.  • Communicate initial setup and ongoing changes of 'pre-sell' product to accurately reflect delivery expectations.  • Establish and maintain productive vendor relationships. Collaborate with external vendors to create product selection. Point person for troubleshooting sales/vendor issues.  • Built industry knowledge by researching and exploring marketplace and category trends. Owner Mango Dragon Games LLC - Kirkland, WA 2017 to 2018 Started company to create and sell board games with fellow entrepreneur.  • Co-designed board game, including rules, structure, graphic design, and theming, from scratch.  • Traveled to conventions and met with players to promote and get feedback on product. Junior Software Developer Allyis Inc - Kirkland, WA 2015 to 2016 Performed coding, performance tuning, and optimization. Documented developed code.  • Helped code a domain management tool, using multithreading to reduce latency of loading a database.  • Programmed code to test various systems and built use cases to test website functionality. Education B.A. in Biology and Spanish Willamette University - Salem, OR artificial intelligence DigiPen Institute of Technology - Redmond, WA Graduate Certificate in Software Development and Design in Leadership / Interests University of Washington Bothell - Bothell, WA Skills Buying, Logistics, Order management, Inventory, Retail, Bookkeeping, Merchandising, Data mining, Database, Software engineering, Database management, Microsoft office, Procurement Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/jeffreykitts Additional Information Core Skills  Wholesale/Retail Buying Software Engineering Product Merchandising Data Mining  Product Distribution & Tracking Microsoft Office Suite Inventory Replenishment Assortment Planning  Information Systems Bookkeeping / Reporting Logistics with Domestic Orders Programming  Vendor Relations & Management Database Management Annual/Weekly Promotional Planning Order Management