Application Support Application Support Application Support - Genworth Financial Work Experience Application Support Genworth Financial January 2018 to Present Responsibilities  • As application support management  • Checking of system parameter as per the application health checklist  • Monitoring the application users and process execution loads  • Checking of application and error logs  • Diagnosis, trouble shooting and resolving related errors and performance issues through respective stake holders and performance tuning.  • Performing diagnosis of production incident by reading application logs and database logs  • Using various monitoring tools (APM, OEM12c) to monitor application behaviour and take appropriate action  • Monitoring and publishing the incidental statistics on weekly basis  • Ensure uptime and availability of application as per the SLA agreed.  • Serve as the technical interface between business support groups, application vendors and internal infra support team.  • Supporting of DR drills  • Carry out weekly analysis of alerts and take appropriate action for their reduction.  • Managing the team and vendor for the proper analysis of the incidents.  • Deploying and update the ear files on different environments.  • Trouble shooting application issue by analysing the WAS logs  • Analysing the Heap Dump and Thread dump.  • Deployment of JAR and WAR files in the Application server    CHANGE AND RELEASE MANAGEMENT  • Ensuring all the tests and checks are done on the UAT environment before changes are performed in production  • Ensure transition of builds, bug, fixes, patches does not result in any application unavailability during the business hours  • Follow change Management Process for all application /Database/OS related update and upgraded  • Ensure change and release management is followed for bug fixes, maintenance activities, Process improvement.  • Ensure all the necessary documentation required as per the IT governance is followed and adhered to for successful approval by release control board.    Project Name Cyberlife Data warehousing  Client Genworth Financial  Role Developer  Technology used in project Hortonworks distribution, hive, shell scripting, oozie, sqoop  Project Description  Upgrade existing policy and claims structure for cyberlife policies and maintain at a centralized location capturing historical data.    Responsibilities  • Architecture Design  • Creating CDC logic to capture change in data  • Generation of delta feeds from daily full feeds via hadoop.  • Processing delta feeds via ETL scripts to perform SCD-2 type and storing in oracle database  • Creating HLD and LLD flow document  • Creation of metadata, Oozie xml and shell script to generate the property file. Incident Manager HDFC Bank June 2012 to 2017 I worked with Tata Consultancy Services as IT Analyst from (Jun'2012 - 2017).  • Project work involved in code optimization using SQL tuning operations, bulk insert and bulk update Stored Procedures, Functions, Exception Handling, Constraints, Triggers, Index, Views, Performance tuning thereby increasing the performance and reducing the execution time.  • Also Involved in Development of the applications through Oracle using PL/SQL created Tables, cursors and SQL Queries.  • Expertise in Writing the Stored Procedures, checking the code for efficiency. knowledge in advance PL/SQL like Collections, Bulk Collect, Materialized View, Dynamic SQL, Analytical functions and Oracle hint etc. Worked with Oracle Packages like DBMS_SCHEDULAR, DBMS_UTILITY, DBMS_SQL having basic Knowledge.  • In Middleware Administration of WebSphere Application Server, Tomcat Application Server.  • Deploying and update the ear files on different environments.  • Trouble shooting application issue by analysing the WAS logs  • Analysing the Heap Dump and Thread dump.  • Deployment of JAR and WAR files in the Application server  • Regular Monitoring, upgrades, troubleshooting and performance enhancement activities  • Good experience in Hadoop Distributed File System [HDFS] management  • Generating delta feeds for Cyberlife process via Hadoop and processing it  • Knowledge of development tools like: Hive, Sqoop  • On HDFS create directory structure/permission for project specific needs and Set access permission for groups and users as required for project specific needs Software Developer TATA CONSULTANCY SERVICES 2012 to 2017 IT Analyst)  Project Enterprise Data warehouse, 3rd Data Party Feed, LEHUB, FAME,  Client Ontario Teachers' Pension Plan, CCIL  Period 2012-2017  Role Software Developer  Responsibilities  As a Software Developer involved in:  • Requirement gathering from Jira and analysis for Enterprise Data warehousing, 3rd Party data Feed, LeHub, Fame and implementation of business logic and rules through MarkIT EDM and UC4 components.  • Preparing Effort Estimation by checking impacted Component.  • Coding for the modules when there is a change required for business rules on MarkIT EDM, UC4, Oracle 11g/Plsql  • Promoting code via Implementer and scheduling jobs using TFS,  DbMestro and GitHub.    • Job creation through UC4.    PROJECT PROFILE:  Company HDFC Bank(Incident Manager)  Project  Express Clear(Cheque Truncation System), PFMS(Public Financial Management system), CRMS(Cheque Referral Management system) Education BACHELOR OF TECHNOLOGY in Electrical Engineering Institute of Technical Education and Research 2012 Additional Information Personal Skills    Good listening skills, Good Problem Solving Techniques, Excellent communication skills, Effective convincing power, Smart Working, Sincere and Honest, Proficiency of handing challenging work