Xamarin Developer/GIS Developer Xamarin <span class="hl">Developer</span>/GIS <span class="hl">Developer</span> Xamarin Developer/GIS Developer - VANTIV Summerville, SC • 6+ years of professional experience in Web Application Development using C#.NET, SQL Server, HTML, CSS, JavaScript in which 2+ years of professional experience in Mobile application development using Xamarin Technologies like Xamarin Forms, Xamarin Natives in Xamarin Studio as well as Visual Studio.  • Good experience in designing scalable applications through load balancing and performance tuning.  • Experience in building cross-platform mobile based apps using Visual Studio as well as Xamarin studio for iOS, Android and Windows.  • Extensive experience in creating User Interface (UI) by using Xamarin Forms with XAML.  • Extensively worked on various design patterns like Singleton, Delegation, MVC, and MVVM in various projects and experience in AGILE and SCRUM environments.  • Experience in integrating REST web services for Android as well as iOS web services.  • Experience on running Mobile UI Test scripts on Xamarin Test Cloud.  • Knowledge on Xamarin Test Recorder for writing the automated UI test scripts.  • Experience in building mobile based apps using Xamarin studio and Cross platform in Visual Studio for iOS, Android.  • Designed Interfaces and GUI with services for mobile applications, Asynchronous programming in Xamarin. Forms and Xamarin. Android.  • Expertise on Object Oriented Programming concepts, Design Patterns, C#, Exception Handling, Multithreading, Collections Framework and Generics, Data Structures in C#.  • Worked using Bootstrap framework in designing responsive UI development of web applications.  • Used AJAX Controls to create an interactive Web Application and customize AJAX Control Tool kit as per requirement demand.  • Created Stored Procedures for inserting, deleting and updating screens data into database using SQL Server.  • Performed Database operation-Inserting data, fetching of data and displaying on web controls through XML and also in JSON.  • Experience in working with Crystal Reports and SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS).  • Used Jenkins for continuous integration and JIRA for bug tracking.  • Strong background in implementation of OOPS concepts.  • Experience in designing GUI screens using usability and design principles.  • Worked extensively with Data Adapter, Dataset and Data reader as a part of ADO.NET for database operations.  • Hands-on experience in various Relational Database Management Systems (RDBMS), MS SQL-Server, T-SQL, PL/SQL- Writing Constraints, Indexes, Views, Stored Procedures and Triggers.  • Deep experience in Source Code Management using Version Control tools like TFS and GIT.  • Profound knowledge in Unified Modeling Language (UML) to design Use-cases, Class Diagrams, Activity Diagrams and Sequence Diagrams.  • Effective in working independently and collaboratively in teams.  • Excellent analytical and interpersonal skills, oral and written communication skills.    TECHNINCAL SKILLS Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Xamarin Developer/GIS Developer VANTIV - Cincinnati, OH January 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Developed a cross platform application which support iOS, Android and UWP using Visual Studio 2015/2017.  • Involved in integrating Push notification for iOS, Android and UWP.  • Intensely work on UI issues on iOS, Android and UWP by using XAML.  • Used Simple Storage package for caching the data into iOS and Android.  • Integrated deep linking into application and Used Web View for displaying XAML, web content inside the application  • Created Custom renderers like Picker, Editor and Entry for Android and UWP to reach clients expectations in UI terms.  • Created styles to avoid the duplication and maintaining layouts globally.  • Created Accordion to display more line of data inside a list view.  • Fixing bugs related to Android and UWP also tracking issues and logging bugs in TFS.  • Maintaining MVVM pattern throughout the project.  • Used Git as a repository tool.  • Merging and pushing the code.  • Involved in the iterative process of development in Agile and Scrum environment.  • Worked with GDPR team to minimize user related information  • Maintained a process document for ISRM team.    Environment: Visual Studio 2015/2017, C#, XAML, Android SDK, MONO SDK, iOS SDK, REST, JSON, Microsoft Azure, TFS, Azure, GIT, Mobile Center, XCode, MVVM. Dot Net/Xamarin Developer Wells Fargo - Charlotte, NC November 2015 to December 2016 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Software development life cycle (SDLC) of application from design phase to implementation phase, testing, Deployment and maintenance phase.  • Created & hosted WCF Services and used different bindings to make it available to different types of clients.  • Applied conditional formatting in SSRS to highlight key areas in the report data.  • Developed iOS application using C# with Xamarin.  • Developed Cross Platform application using Xamarin. Forms and deployed on both IOS and Android Platforms.  • Utilized MVVM design patterns for implementing the architecture of the application.  • Developed for Universal Windows Platform using XAMARIN.FORMS.  • Developed barcode scanning application using Xamarin. Forms, and SQLite.  • Created custom Xamarin controls and renderers for both Android and IOS platforms.  • Implemented navigation mechanism to navigate across Xamarin mobile app and Designed UI screens using built-in Xamarin & Xlabs controls.  • Creating WPF custom controls and associated control templates and integrating and customizing (styles) 3rd party control.  • Used Xamarin. AUTH component for authenticating as this app has role based privileges.  • Develop the User Interface views for iOS app in XCode and Xamarin studio and binding logic in view's files. Similarly, for Win 8 UI views in XAML and Visual Studio and binding logic in corresponding .cs files.  • Developed data entry application with camera integration using Xamarin. Forms, and SQLite.  • Implemented extreme programming by using fast paced agile methodology, involving in task completion, user stories, and iterations.  • Tested the application on more than 2000 Real Devices using Xamarin Test Cloud.  • Developed an automated report subscription process using SSRS  • Utilized ADO.Net Entity Framework Database First technology extensively for data retrieving, querying, storage and manipulation using LINQ to Entities.  • Involved in transferring data from homogeneous and heterogeneous data sources such as MS Access, MS Excel, Flat files, and CSV files into SQL server.  • Subscribed SQL Server Azure Cloud Services.  • Created Database(s) on SQL AZURE.  • Worked on Setting up SQL Azure Firewall.  • Setting up Connection Strings and connecting SQL Server AZURE Databases from locally Installed SQL Server Management Studio (SSMS) for Developers.  • Created SQL Server Reports using SSRS 2008, 2012 and exported them to Excel format for managers and QA team for easy validation and Identified and worked with parameters for parameterized reports in SSRS 2008/2012.  • Gathered requirements to identify and create database objects such as tables, views, triggers and indexes.  • Used Team foundation Server (TFS) for version control and Shelve pending changes of the source code along with the maintenance of the builds and the relevant documents of the same.  • Implemented Unit Testing, Integration Testing and System Testing using NUNIT.    Environment  .NET FRAMEWORK 4.0/3.5, jQuery, WCF, LINQ, ASP.NET 4.0/3.5, ADO.NET, Xamarin, C#.NET, ASP.Net, WINDOWS SERVER 2008, Visual Studio 2010/2008, SQL SERVER 2008, SQL AZURE Entity Frame Work 4.0, Ajax, SSRS, TFS, XML, HTML, SOAP, IIS 7.0, JavaScript, CSS, Web Services. Xamarin Developer Lash Group April 2014 to October 2015 Responsibilities:  • Designed the architecture for the application to be cross platform compatible with the use of Xamarin Forms in PCL.  • Used stack view, Auto layout and Size Classes to create responsive and efficient User Interface.  • Consumed RESTful web services and parsed the JSON data.  • Used SQLite for offline implementation of the application.  • Used C# in Xamarin to create native mobile application. Later, transformed to native app using Xamarin.  • Experience in developing Cross-Platform Mobile applications using Xamarin Forms and Native Mobile Applications using Xamarin. Android and Xamarin. iOS.  • Worked on application development in Xamarin with MVVM architecture. Expertise on Mobile Application Development Using Traditional and Xamarin.  • Android and Xamarin. IOS when performance was the issue with Xamarin Forms.  • Developed Cross-Platform Mobile app using Xamarin Forms with code sharing between all platforms (Android, iOS and Universal Windows apps).  • Worked on automated UI Acceptance testing using Xamarin Test Cloud.  • Implemented SQLite database with Xamarin forms to save necessary information into device local database.  • Worked on finding data discrepancy in the Postgres databases with respect to already loaded data.  • Defined column attributes and schema design based on customer requirements.  • Wrote extensive SQL to fetch data for research purposes.  • Designed and developed effective mechanism to automate existing processes using PostgreSQL psql.  • Worked on Storyboards and Printing functionality for iOS and Droid.  • Integrated Maps into the application to show the current location customers.  • Used Stack Layout and Absolute Layout for creating the User Interface.  • Used Entity Framework to maintain the connection of mobile applications with cloud.  • Used localization techniques in Xamarin for data translation.  • Used GitHub as a code repository.    Environment  C#, Xamarin studio, iOS SDK, MONO SDK, JSON, Android SDK, GIT, Salesforce. Net Developer Info Grid - Hyderabad, Telangana August 2012 to March 2014 Responsibilities  • Involved in design, coding for web application using ASP.NET MVC Framework 4.0, C#, Visual Studio 2012, SQL Server 2008.  • Utilize Entity Framework code first approach then generates the database.  • Created Business Logic Layer & Data Access Layers to implement the MVC architecture.  • Developed modules of the application in ASP.NET MVC and involved in writing C# classes. Software Developer Hyderabad, Telangana January 2010 to July 2012 Environment  .Net Framework 4.0, ASP.NET, Visual Studio 2008, XML, Xamarin, CSS, HTML, AJAX, SQL Server 2005, T- SQL, MS Access, SSRS, SQL, Java Script, Share point.    Mind tree, Hyderabad, India Jan 2010 - July 2012  Software Developer    Responsibilities:  • Involved in Web development using ASP.NET Web Forms, HTML, DHTML, XML, XSLT, JavaScript, and CSS.  • Developed Data Components in ADO.NET for accessing the data base data.  • Used Cascading Style Sheets (CSS) for a unified look and feel of the application.  • Developed Responsive Web Design (RWD) pages using HTML, CSS.  • Developed user interface using Win Forms.  • Worked extensively in Front end (UI) and Middle tier layers.  • Developed stored procedures, triggers with ADO.NET in SQL server 2000.  • testing the scripts and validating data in the SQL Server database.  • Created components and DLLs for the application to run as standalone applications.  • Implemented Caching, Exception and Custom Error Handling using ASP.NET and C#.  • Developed COM components to add, delete, and update the products as well as customer details in database.  • Developed client call back mechanism (AJAX) together with JavaScript to provide better user interactivity.  • Design reports using Crystal Report tool.  • Used Crystal Reports for creating various kinds of reports.    Environment: ASP.NET 2.0, C# ADO.NET, MS-Excel, HTML, CSS, XML, XSL, SOAP, WSDL, VBScript, JavaScript, SQL Server 2000, AJAX, MS-Access. Education Bachelor's Skills Net (6 years), Android (3 years), C# (8 years), iOS (3 years), Visual Studio (6 years) Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information Skills: .NET (4 years), C# (4 years), VISUAL STUDIO (6 years), ANDROID (1 year), IOS (1 year), Xamarin (2 years)