Sr. Software Engineer, Lead Software Engineer Sr. <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer, Lead <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Sr. Software Engineer, Lead Software Engineer - Clearlink South Jordan, UT 10+ years experienced, detail oriented full stack software engineer with a track record of spearheading projects from conception to deployment. Work Experience Sr. Software Engineer, Lead Software Engineer Clearlink - Salt Lake City, UT July 2018 to Present Spearheaded a Laravel application to standardize communication between internal company tools and third-party  APIs.  • Modernized company policies and procedures to include coding standards, TDD, and the deployment process.  • Converted multiple Laravel based applications from EC2 instances to ECS docker clusters Sr. Software Engineer, Lead Developer Modernized Media - American Fork, UT February 2017 to June 2018 • Responsible for code review on all Laravel, VueJS, and CodeIgniter projects.  • Engineered cutting edge web applications in several frameworks including Laravel, CodeIgniter, and Magento.  • Helped improve project release cycles by restructuring the company's Git policies and procedures.  • Standardized a docker based local development environment that was adopted by the entire development team. IT Manager / Systems Administrator / Web Developer Silhouette America - Lindon, UT October 2012 to December 2016 • Devised a full stack credit card tokenization platform (secure API/database environment, server/client-side API's, and implementation into working infrastructure).  • Integrated several shipping APIs to allow real-time quotes during the checkout process.  • Developed an intuitive permissions system for use on company websites.  • Constructed a help desk system to facilitate employee interactions with the IT department.  • Increased server utilization by implementing virtualization technologies. Developer WakeUpNow - Orem, UT January 2012 to September 2012 • Integrated several APIs with company systems that allowed for creation of third-party accounts, single sign-on, and merchant processing.  • Wrote several server-side scripts that calculated weekly and monthly commission payouts.  • Generated real-time, daily, weekly, and monthly reports. Education Associate of Applied Science in Graphic Design in Graphic Design Stevens-Henager College - Murray, UT April 2012 Skills Docker, Git, Html, Javascript, Php, Laravel, Mysql, jquery, Css, Linux Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information Technical Skills  • PHP • Git • JavaScript • MySQL  • Laravel • HTML • jQuery  • Docker • CSS • VueJS