Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Atlanta, GA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Developer Agency Matrix November 2018 to Present PHP, Laravel, Vue.js and Javascript  • Develop and document API services in Agile Environment.  • Used Postman for REST service testing.  • Analyze requirements and perform technical design to specifications.  • Develop dynamic web pages using Vue.js and Javascript.  • Proactive research and keep abreast of new technologies applied to the company. Software Consultant & Research Assistant University of Washington-Bothell - Bothell, WA March 2017 to November 2018 Cloud Computing, Multimedia Database Systems, and Operating Systems  • Published a demo paper on "ViDupe-Duplicate Video Detection as a Service in Cloud" in IFIP/IEEE International Symposium on Integrated Network Management 2019.  • Conducted workshops on different cloud models and duplicate media detection.  • Created test plans based on the objective and scope of each project.  • Administered certificate exams of over 50 students.  • Work in association with the instructor to closely monitor the progress of each student and creating a summarized report of all the students. Master's Project Cloud Computing, Google Cloud September 2017 to May 2018 Skill set: Java, Cloud Computing, Google Cloud. CloudSDLC Git  • Detect duplicate media (including images, videos, audio) on cloud storage in smart devices. Developed a horizontally scalable cloud webservice to detect duplicate files.  • Developed Google drive extension to detect duplicate media using perceptual hashing technique.  • Results: Multiple drives can be scanned for duplicates in minutes.  o Processed 5 google drive accounts with 700 videos of 20MB each under 10 minutes.  o Achieved accuracy of 84% -89% when tested on three different datasets.  o Testbed: 1/2/multi-core CPU, 3.5-15GB machine +/- load balancer. Academic Projects Video Shot Boundary Detection System November 2016 to December 2016 Skill set: Java, Multimedia Database Systems, FFMPEG  • Index videos by identifying shots.  • Developed a Video Shot Boundary Detection System that allows the user to browse for a desired shot to play.  • Extracted 5000 video frames using ffmpeg.  • Identified 31 keyframes using Twin-Comparison algorithm.  o Testbed: HD video of 100MB    Sentiment Analysis of Amazon Movie Reviews                                                                           Sept. 2017- Dec 2017  Skill set: Python, Machine Learning, Natural Language Toolkit (NLTK)  ·    Classify Amazon movie reviews as positives or negatives to evaluate the opinions of the people on a movie.  ·    Analyzed by assigning polarity scores to reviews and converting words to vectors.  ·    Evaluated stop word removal and Lemmatization using 4 classification techniques.  ·    Achieved: Conversion accuracy 91%, polarity accuracy 88%.  • Testbed: Dictionary.     Video Shot Boundary Detection System                                                                                       Nov. 2016- Dec 2016  Skill set: Java, Multimedia Database Systems, FFMPEG  ·    Index videos by identifying shots.  ·    Developed a Video Shot Boundary Detection System that allows the user to browse for a desired shot to play.  ·    Extracted 5000 video frames using ffmpeg.  ·    Identified 31 keyframes using Twin-Comparison algorithm.  • Testbed: HD video of 100MB     Content-Based Image Retrieval (CBIR) with Relevance Feedback                                          Oct. 2016- Nov. 2016  Skill set: Java, Multimedia Database Systems  ·    Identify similar images based on intensity, color or both.  ·    Developed CBIR system to browse, query, and retrieve from dataset of 100 images.  ·    Improved accuracy by 25% using Relevance Feedback technique.    Education Master of Science in CSSE in Cloud Computing University of Washington Bothell - Bothell, WA June 2018 Bachelor of Technology in CSE in CSE Acharya Nagarjuna University April 2016 Skills Eclipse, Java, Intellij idea, .net, Visual studio, C#, Git, Javascript, Php, Python, Software development, Mysql, Life cycle, Rational, Rational rose, Sdlc, Ec2, Perforce Links http://linkedin.com/in/gousiyask http://farheensk.github.io Additional Information Technical Skills  Programming Skills Java, C#, Python, .NET, PHP, Javascript  Methodologies Agile, Scrum/XP, Secure Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC), Cloud Software  Development Life Cycle (CloudSDLC)  Platforms Google Compute Engine, Google Cloud Functions, AWS EC2, MySQL  Tools Intellij IDEA, PhpStorm, PyCharm, Eclipse, Visual Studio, Net Beans, Rational Rose,  Git, Perforce, Postman.