Software Developer/Teaching Assistantship <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span>/Teaching Assistantship Software Developer/Teaching Assistantship San Diego, CA of Python, HTML5, CSS, PostgreSQL, MySQL, PLSQL, Oracle, ETL processes,  SSIS/SSRS, Data warehousing, BI reporting tools like Tableau, Microsoft BI  and Linux, Windows platform. Extensive knowledge of Health Insurance  Exchange(HIX), Storage and Banking domain. Aiming to leverage my skills to  successfully fill the Data Engineer/IT Systems Analyst role at your company.    PROFESSIONAL IT Systems Analyst Feb 2016-Present  OPTUM, San Diego, CA, US Work Experience Software Developer/Teaching Assistantship University of North Dakota - Grand Forks, ND February 2014 to August 2015 US  • Taught 'Python' to undergraduate students and 'Robotics & Animation' to middle school kids.  • Used SCM tools like GitHub/Jenkins for version control & management  and Maven to build, configuring & deploy the application in all the environments.  • Worked on creating responsive website for smart devices using  responsive design and media queries.  • Worked on cross browser compatibility issues and fixed the bugs.  • Translated market and product requirements into UI designs in the form  of conceptual models, wire frames and prototypes using HTML5 (new  tags, changes, canvas) and CSS3 (selectors, animations and transforms).  • Developed internal application using Node.JS connecting to Oracle on the back-end.  • Developed name selectors in UI using Dojo and AJAX for on-key-down responses from back end.  • Developed various screens for the front end and used various predefined  components from NPM (Node Package Manager) and Redux library.  • Performed unit testing of the developed component and web forms and worked closely with manual testers and automation testers, user  acceptance testers for ensuring the desired functionality is achieved. Associate Software Developer Symantec Corporation - Pune, Maharashtra June 2013 to January 2014 MH, India  • Extend the functionality of storage based module of VERITAS SFHA.  • Worked with BA and Testers to better understand business requirement  and implement it and also fixing bugs accordingly.  • Worked in both AGILE and SDLC based development environment and participating in SCRUM sessions.  • Prepared and executed unit test cases.  • Improved and enhanced existing software performance by analyzing the product completely.  • Build and released code under distributed environment.  • Conducted code reviews according to C++ Coding Standards and Conventions.  • Used GitHub for version control and performs code reviews at regular  intervals. Software Developer Credentek Software - Pune, Maharashtra March 2011 to June 2013 MH, India  • Developed software which can compress and transfer files from different  banks to centralized machine through sockets and parses these debit and credit card activity files to keeps its own pool of data to reconcile.  • Developed a module to liquidize the money of a big account into its sub  accounts on monthly and yearly basis to avoid the losses.  • Worked in a very small team, with high visibility and greater  responsibilities.  • Followed full software life-cycle and also maintain technical and functional documentation which helped to get excellent exposure to the  financial industry.  • Wrote optimized SQL queries, PL/SQL Stored Procedures, Functions, Packages and Triggers on databases like MySQL, SQL Server and Oracle.  • Resolved bugs reported on Bugzilla and prepared & executed Unit test  cases to verify those changes.  • Used Sockets, IPC and STL programming throughout the project.  • Tested pages for cross-browser compatibility for Safari, Chrome, Firefox, IE and Opera by cross browser hacks and requirements.  • Used multi-threading in programming to improve overall performance  using Singleton design pattern.  • Participated in UAT testing with end customers and involved in User  Accepting Testing. Education Master of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science University of North Dakota - Grand Forks, ND 2015 Master of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science MIT College - Pune, Maharashtra 2013 Bachelor of Science in Computer Science in Engineering, E-Commerce Abasaheb Garware College - Pune, Maharashtra 2010 Skills Git, Html, Jenkins, Python, Mysql, Oracle, Postgresql, Bugzilla, Jira, Version control, Css, Tableau, Power bi, Eclipse, Bi, HTML 5, Jquery, Javascript Additional Information Web Technologies: HTML, CSS IDE's: Eclipse, NetBeans, VS, Python IDE  Databases: MySQL, Oracle, PostgreSQL, TSQL BI Tools: Tableau, Microsoft BI, Power BI  Issue Tracking Tools: JIRA, Service Now, Bugzilla Version control tools: GIT, Jenkins