C# .Net Developer C# .Net <span class="hl">Developer</span> C# .Net Developer - Schneider National Green Bay, WI ? Around 6+ years of IT experience in software design, analysis, development, testing and implementation of secure n-tier client/server web based applications using .NET Framework in various sectors.  ? Proficient in using T-SQL for developing complex stored procedures, Triggers, Tables, Views, User-Defined Functions, SQL joins, Index and query writing  ? Knowledge in developing cube and dimensions using SQL server Analysis Services  ? Knowledge in developing reports like Tabular reports, Matrix Reports, Charts, Custom Reports, drill down, parameterized reports using SQL server reporting services.  ? Good knowledge over .Net framework 3.5 concepts like Lambda expressions, LINQ, Extension methods, TPL, etc  ? Designed Applications using UML and Use Cases and Design Patterns, Agile Methodologies.  ? Knowledge of build technologies like Jenkins, NuGet etc, Integration and automation of source control applications like Git.  ? Strong experience with MS SQL Server Integration Services  ? Worked on cloud computing using Windows Azure and SQL Server Azure.  ? Expertise in implementation of Automation Framework using Selenium.  ? Extensive experience in converting the Legacy Applications into .Net.  ? Experience in developing Site core web content management based solutions.  ? Extensively used Visual Source Safe& TFS for version control management.  ? Database programming, performance tuning, data model analysis and data migration  ? Designed and developed Reports using SQL Reporting Services and integration of the same with ASP for web based reports and Crystal Reports.  ? Strong Object-Oriented Programming skills.  ? Used PowerShell for DevOps in Windows-based systems.  ? Experienced in developing Win Forms using C#, web-based applications using ASP.NET, VB.Net.  ? Well versed in N-Tier Architecture with web and windows technologies using .Net Framework, windows forms, web forms and Windows services, SOAP, IIS 6.0/7.0/7.5, XML, XSL, XSLT, CSS, HTML and DHTML.  ? Good knowledge in financial and trading domain.  ? Expertise in running Test Scripts from Quality Center/ Test Director on different hosts.  ? Experienced in using web server IIS. Creating virtual directories.  ? Designed several front-end applications in ASP, Visual Basic.  ? Communication b/w application using Web services and WCF  ? Extensive knowledge in object oriented languages of C++, C#, Java, VB.NET.  ? Experience with of various SCM Tools like Seapine SCM, Visual SourceSafe, TFS and Tortoise SVN.  ? Experience in Conceptual data Model and Physical Data Model of Project.  ? Applied multithreading techniques to improve application performance.  ? Linux infrastructure design and management.  ? Good knowledge of Waterfall, Spiral, agile development methodologies.  ? Expertise in full Project life cycle development, Team management and SEI-CMM quality standards and procedures.  ? Developed project relevant documents like Software Requirement Specifications, High level design, Low level design, Technical Architecture, Unit Test plans, System Test plans, Project Release notes, Checklists for coding and reviewing, Coding standards, Project induction manual, Project plan, Statement of Work.  ? Excellent communication skills, self-motivated, ability to handle multiple tasks, able and willing to learn quickly. Work Experience C# .Net Developer Schneider National - Green Bay, WI January 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Designed UI screens and code using ASP.NET MVC 5, Telerik Kendo UI, Type Script, HTML5, XML, AJAX, CSS3 and BOOTSTRAP which provides performance data visualization to users.  ? Deftly followed agile development methodology to ensure teamwork, collaboration and process adaptability throughout the life-cycle of the project.  ? Implemented Grids, chart ad editor components using Kendo UI controls.  ? Developed new user interface components for different modules using Kendo UI with various controls including Grid controls, and chart controls.  ? Designed and developed UI with HTML5 controls, extensive CSS3 styles and Kendo UI dialogs.  ? Applied Multithreading techniques for creating high performance applications  ? Worked on views, common shared views for user interface using Kendo UI Grids andJSON.  ? Developed components using C#, Json.NET, Telerik MVC Controls, custom jQueryfunctions for mapping, search and grid controls using Telerik Kendo UI widgets.  ? Experience in use of Kendo UI framework was made - including widgets like Kendo grid, Kendo autocomplete, Kendo window, etc., including the use of Kendo core framework features.  ? Responsible for design and develop mobile layout using jQuery mobile, Kendo UI.  ? Created and consumed ASP.NET Web services and implemented RESTFUL for service layer.  ? Created SSIS packages for data extraction, transformation, and loading.  ? Created SSRS packages for Reporting purposes.  ? Participated in database modeling and development using SQL Server, Stored Procedures, Packages, and Functions.  ? Created Stored Procedures, Views, User Defined Functions.  ? Created Sub-Queries and Joins for complex queries involving multiple tables and Exception Handlers.  ? Developed database security standards compatible with efficient user operation and system security requirements.  ? Used Team Foundation Services for version control.  ? Interaction with QA teams for smooth problem resolution and error free rollouts.  ? Involved in promoting stored procedures and database schemas in to multiple environments, e.g.., Staging and Production.  Environment: C#.Net ASP.NET, MVC5, Kendo UI, Angular 2, Type Script, HTML5, CSS3, BOOTSTRAP, JAVASCRIPT(ES6), ENTITY FRAME WORK, WCF, JQUERY, Fortify Security Software, JSON, SSRS, SSIS, TFS, AZURE. C# .Net Developer Prudential - Newark, NJ July 2014 to December 2016 Responsibilities  ? Responsible for gathering the new requirements, change requests and analyze the requirements given by the clients.  ? The application is an E-Commerce application to show the list and grid views, calls to DB and Web API is used as the web service.  ? Design and Developed web based workflow application using Visual studio, ASP.NET MVC, C#.NET, SQL Server.  ? Application is designed using MVC (Model View Controller), Facade Pattern Concept.  ? Implemented form validations across the site using Angular JS.  ? Built dynamically generated dropdown lists using Ajax, jQueryUI.  ? Extensively JQuery plug-ins and develop and extended plug-ins as required.  ? Developed business and data access layer using C# and Entity framework.  ? Involved in creating Use case and Sequence diagrams for the given modules using Visio.  ? Implemented N-Tier Architecture and integrated the UI with Data base for data retrieval and manipulation using ADO.NET data objects and ADO.NET Entity Framework.  ? Implemented Stored Procedures call in the business layer (ADO.net) for use of Web layer.  ? Implemented Data Access Layer using ADO.NET to connect and retrieve or manipulate database information. Utilized LINQ extensively for data querying, storage and manipulations in Data Access Layer.  ? Working experience using web services and API's built on SOAP, REST and using XML, JSON and design/modeling.  ? I helped the team migrating the workload from private cloud to the Azure Public Cloud.  ? Used Crystal Reports for report generation.  ? Implemented SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS) and Crystal reports to deliver variety of interactive reports.  ? Preparation of Code review and unit test documentation loading them on SharePoint for team's access.  Environment: C#, ASP.net, MVC 4/5, ADO.net, SQL Server 2016/2014, HTML5, CSS, JQuery, JavaScript, Web API, Angular JS, Visual Studio 2017/2015, AJAX, Classic ASP, SSRS, UML and Microsoft Enterprise Library, TFS, SharePoint. Software Developer Whirlwind - IN January 2012 to April 2014 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in collecting and analyzing the business requirements from the customers and business analysts.  ? Converted RDLC reports to RDL files.  ? Constructed web pages encapsulating the business logic in order to provide clear separation of data and presentation layers.  ? Utilized ADO.Net 3.5 technology extensively for data retrieving, querying, storage and manipulation using SQL Server 2005 and .NET Framework 3.5.  ? Master Pages were developed using web user controls and custom controls.  ? Developed classes in C#, which incorporate multi-tier architecture and database connectivity.  ? Implemented extreme programming by using fast paced agile methodology, involving in task completion, user stories, iterations and XP/Scrum methodologies.  ? UI (User Interface) was developed using ASP.NET 3.5 web server controls, jQuery, JavaScript, HTML, XDSL, XML, XLS and DHTML and Cascading Style Sheets (CSS) using Macromedia Dreamweaver.  ? Supported SQL queries and databases by updating and tuning in proper manner.  ? Developed COM components using C++ for decoding  ? Implemented WPF in creating custom controls  ? Implemented SOA architecture with Windows Services, web services using SOAP, MSMQ, WSDL, UDDI, and XML.,Lambda, OLTP Protocol.  ? Developed Data Access Layer( ADO.NET) in C# 3.5 to do all the database related operations like apply changes of the strongly typed dataset, fill strongly typed dataset.  ? Used data controls like Data Grid, Telerik AJAX, Data List, Data caching, Data Binding and Repeater controls throughout the application to display data in a customized format in the ASP.NET 3.5 web pages.  ? Generated Matrix reports using SSRS.  ? Implemented AJAX in order to provide pleasant client side experience.  ? Client side validations were performed using JavaScript and .NET validation controls.  ? Involved in creating various SQL Queries, relational databases, DTS packages, triggers and stored procedures with SQL Server 2016 and RDBMS, DB2.  ? Worked on Team Foundation source control (TFS) which stores the entire code, as well as a record of all changes and current check-outs in a SQL Server database.  ? Worked on test automation programs, NAnt, NUnit and tools QA program development.  Environment: ASP.NET 3.5, SQL Server 2010, ADO.NET, OOPS, JavaScript, WCF Web services, XML, SOAP, CSS, HTML, jQuery, AJAX, Design Patterns and UML, VB.Net , MSMQ. Education Master of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science Lamar University May 2015 Bachelor of Engineering in Computer Science in Computer Science Gujarat Tech University May 2012 Skills .NET (6 years), C# (6 years), XML (6 years), AJAX (6 years), ASP (6 years) Additional Information Technical Skills  Programming Languages OOPS, C/C++, C#.NET, VB.NET,ASP.NET 4.0/3.5/3.0/2.0/1.1, ADO.NET 2.0/4.0, XAML  Web Technologies VB.Net, ASP.NET, ASP, HTML, DHTML, AJAX, Web-Services, WCF, Microsoft Azure, Octopus Deploy.  Scripting Language XML, CSS, Java Script, VBScript, jQuery, Angular Js, XSLT 1.0. Power Shell 5.0.  .net Technologies .Net Framework 1.1/2.0/3.0/3.5/4.0, WPF, WWF, WCF,LINQ, MVC 4/3 /2 , Lambda  Databases SQL Server 2005/2008/2012/2016, ORACLE 10g/9i/8i, MS-Access, Git Repository.  Reporting Tools Microsoft-Office, MS Reporting Services 2005/2008/2016, Crystal Reports, MS Test Report Generator  Testing Tools Microsoft Test Manager, Selenium IDE.  Development Tools Visual Studio .NET 2002/2003/2005/2008/2010/2012/2015/2017, Visual Studio 6.0, Microsoft Expression Blend.  Versioning Tool Visual Source Safe(VSS),IBM Rational Clear Case, Team Foundation Server, Visual Studio Online.  Protocols TCP/IP, FTP, HTTP, SMTP, SDLC, SOAP.  Web Server IIS5.0/6.0/7.0  Operating Systems Windows NT/XP/2000/2003/Vista/7/Azure, MS DOS,UNIX