Java Developer Java <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer Pittsburgh, PA Work Experience Java Developer Datadot Solutions August 2017 to Present This project developed as a web-based application using Spring Hibernate Framework.    Responsibilities:  1. Involving in requirements gathering, analysis, design, and documentation of the application.  2. Implemented applications using Java, J2EE, Servlets, JSP, XML, HTML, and Hibernate.  3. Mapping database objects corresponding to database tables using POJO classes using JDBC.  4. Implementing the backend business layers using spring and web services.  5. Designed and implemented the application using Spring Core, Spring MVC, and Spring Boot implemented Restful services.  6. Use Spring annotations and XML configuration for Dependency Injection.  7. Implemented navigation using Spring MVC controllers, configured controllers using Spring MVC annotations and configuration files.  8. Developing code for obtaining bean references in Spring Framework using Dependency Injection.  9. Developing services using Java Spring Boot, Hibernate, Restful services.  10. Configuring the spring integration XML to route request to respective databases.  11. Implemented service layer using Spring IOC and annotations and Controllers using Spring MVC.  12. Implemented DAOs, entities using Hibernate API and Hibernate QL.  Environment: Spring JDBC, Spring MVC framework, Spring Boot, Hibernate and Maven.  2. Critique V2:  Organization: Wipro Technologies, Pune India Software Engineer SFR (French Telecommunications Company) October 2010 to March 2012 Oct 2010 - Mar 2012    This is an application of generating phone bills for customers and sending to the contractor for printing and for archiving.    Responsibilities:  1. Designing, developing, debugging and testing the web based application using the J2EE architecture.  2. Designing and developing the user interface using Servlets, JSP, HTML and java for both business logic and GUI development.  3. Used Collection Framework features like map, object, list to retrieve the data from web service, manipulate the data to incorporate business logic and save the data to Oracle database.  4. Involved in writing PL/SQL queries and stored procedures for the application in Oracle.  5. Experience in using IDEs Eclipse, MyEclipse, and IntelliJ.  6. Handled the database persistence using JDBC.  7. Involved in complete Developmental life cycle of the project.  8. Contributed in requirement analysis and design: prepared HLD and LLD documents for business and team.  9. Gather new requirements and designed documents. Also analyze and understand the requirements.  10. Performing code maintenance and deployments.  Environment: J2SE, J2EE, Oracle, HP Exstream Dialogue Version7.0    3. ATM Management System  Organization: Cybage Software Pvt Ltd, Pune India Software Engineer HSBC July 2009 to September 2010 Develop a code for an ATM management system for the company using J2SE, Servlets and JDBC features.  To develop the ATM system the entire operation has been divided into the following modules:  1. Verification process  2. Account selection (Saving or Checking Account)  3. Transactions (Deposit, Withdrawal or View Balance)    Responsibilities:  1. Involved in analysis, design, development and implementation of this application.  2. Developed User Interface using HTML, JSP.  3. Developed servlets for retrieving/updating the data from tables in the database.  4. Designed and created the database tables.  5. Wrote PL/SQL stored procedures and triggers.  Environment: J2SE, J2EE, Oracle    4. Retail Distribution Review - BPTB Letters GLT (Earlier known as ET):  Organization: Cybage Software Pvt Ltd, Pune India Software Engineer HSBC February 2007 to June 2009 Feb 2007 - June 2009  A business requirement to consolidate and realign the Document Production Utility (DPU) document build processes, responsible for inbound/outbound, formatted and structured documents via respective channels to customers of HSBC.    Responsibilities:  1. Receive specification (spec) templates/amendments from different business areas.  2. Created the Documents, Data Files Customer driver, Auxiliary and Reference Output Queues.  3. Enhancement, redesign and maintenance of existing documents present in dialogue.  4. Created the Variables, Data Mapping, and Rules Writing.  5. Creation and modification of Barcodes, Page templates, Output Queues, Functions, Rules etc.  6. Analyze the requirements, software design, development, documentation, deployment and accordingly raise queries and suggestions to ONCs or directly to business people.  7. Create new builds and action amendments using Dialogue/CSF as the composition tools and XML Scripts.  8. Work with professional services team to manage timelines and deliverables to the client during the course of project.  9. Ensured all Documents are provided, in a timely manner, in accordance with application requirement.  10. Project involved in generating PDF and live outputs.  11. Perform process role for our team.  12. Leading and mentoring a team of 4-5 developers.    Environment: HP Exstream Dialogue, CSF, JCL, COBOL, DB2, CICS, CSF and XML.    ACHIEVEMENT:  Two times SPOT AWARD winner, in a team of 30-35 members for the exceptional performance. Education Diploma in Advance Computing in Advance Computing CDAC 2007 Skills ECLIPSE, J2EE, J2SE, JAVA, HIBERNATE, INTELLIJ IDEA, SPRING, JSP, SERVLETS, DATABASE, DB2, JDBC, MS ACCESS, ORACLE, PL/SQL, SQL, STORED PROCEDURES, API, HTML, JSON Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/pragya-chauhan-7045453b