Tech Lead Tech Lead Tech Lead - NNA Franklin, TN ? A growth oriented professional total experience of 8years in IT industry having exposure in the complete Software development life cycle involving development, documentation, testing, scrum planning and maintenance. Currently working with the TechMahindra Americas Inc.  ? Extensive knowledge and experience in SAP Business objects, Tableau, SQL, COBOL, DB2, Natural, ADABAS.  ? Experience in both Waterfall and Agile methodology of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  ? Good domain knowledge of the Automotive and Logistics Industry.  ? Strong ability in communicating with Development Teams and ability to work on multiple projects and prioritize workload.  ? Resolving Technical queries and extending onsite support including maintenance and development of the existing architecture.  ? Ability to perform and deliver under pressure and deadlines, and to work with a team.  ? Exposure in handling client queries, providing them feasible solutions & building healthy relationships thereby achieving high customer satisfaction.  ? Capable of delivering the new leading Technologies  ? An efficient learner and having good organizational & mentoring skills  ? Strong analytical, problem solving, multitasking and strategic planning skills  ? Very good exposure to all Quality procedures complying with ISO 9002 standards and CMM - Level5. Work Experience Tech Lead NNA December 2015 to Present This project is started to replace the third party reporting tool for the After sales applications. Nissan is using BIRT tool to generate the reports, which is controlled by GCS Company over Nissan provided data. Currently Nissan is planning to maintain the aftersales datamart and reporting process in-house and stop paying to GCS.    Responsibilities:  ? Conduct meeting with product owners and users in gathering the report requirements and understand how they want to see the data.  ? Analyze and understand the report structures, features and capabilities of BIRT reporting tool.  ? Provide the capabilities of SAP Business objects when compared with BIRT.  ? Work with the host mainframe team to generate the extracts and send it to ADAM(Aftersales datamart) through CLEO process.  ? Work with the Data Architect team and provide the business knowledge on the field and table level, join conditions, constraints while doing the data modeling.  ? Work with the Informatica ETL team about creating the mapping to load data from Host files to ADAM tables.  ? Work in agile method and deliver user stories. Participate in the Agile processes like backlog grooming to add enough details in the user stories, sprint planning to prioritize the work and standup meeting to give daily updates.  ? Coordinate with offshore team to delegate the work and finalize the development.  ? Build the universes with data foundation layers with the required tables and apply table level strategies.  ? Insert required tables and Perform joins, cardinality setup, required derived tables in the data foundation layer  ? Build business layer on top data foundation layer with the business terms.  ? Create dimensions and measures, prompts, applying aggregate awareness as required, filters in the business layer.  ? Review changes done by the offshore team and get the approval from business objects data architect by providing the migration templates.  ? Perform the loop detection on the data foundation layer and use appropriate context/aliases to eliminate loops.  ? Compare the WEBi report output with SQL developer query output to make sure data integrity.  ? Perform the integrity checks on the universe and find out any issues with the connections, joins, keys, cardinality of the universes.  ? Create test results document by comparing number s of universe/WEBi output and SQL developer query output.  ? Migrate the approved universes to stage with the help of BO admin team.  ? Demo the universe and reports using the WEB Intelligence to business users.  ? Migrate the universe from stage to production.  ? Involved in complete life cycle phases of the project  ? Provide the SAP Business objects reporting tool training to the users on different options provided by the tool.  ? Connect the SAP BO reports through Tableau and generate visualization on under lying data.  ? Generate reports and dashboards using Tableau.  ? Develop dashboard actions, filters, trend lines other visualizations using Tableau.  ? Perform UAT and publish the tableau dashboards to production folders. Sr. Software Engineer Nissan North America - Franklin, TN June 2014 to June 2015 The primary goal of Same Day Stock Order (SDSO) is to improve stock order response time, by providing dealers with on-line, same day order entry/processing, at NNA PDCs. Provide enhanced customer service with improvements in ordering response time.    Responsibilities:  ? Analyze and understand the current legacy Parts Ordering system  ? Design and develop new screens, batch programs that allow Dealers to order the Parts.  ? Perform system testing with Warehouse Management system.  ? Review of the deliverables created by offshore team members and deliver to the customer.  ? Participating in the Customer Acceptance test to validate the new Ordering process by involving few Dealers, Business Stake Holders and PDC Users.  ? Support deployment procedure and perform validation after Implementation.  Technologies/Tools Used - COBOL, CICS, NATURAL, ADABAS, JCL, VSAM, FILE-AID, TSO/ISPF, PANVALET, SAR, MQ Series, and CA7 (Scheduler). Software Developer - Mainframe Nissan North America - Chennai, Tamil Nadu March 2011 to June 2014 has automotive applications, which needs enhancement and maintenance.  Worked on multiple enhancements related to Vehicle Production, Part sales, Planning, Order and purchasing systems.  Responsibilities:  ? Analyze the requirements from Business Users and prepare Data flow diagrams, design documents.  ? Develop new application modules based on the requirements and finalized design.  ? Perform Unit and System testing for bug product development.  ? Perform peer review of the deliverables before deploying them to onsite folks.  ? Support deployment procedure and perform validation after Implementation.    Technologies/Tools Used - COBOL, CICS, NATURAL, ADABAS, JCL, VSAM, FILE-AID, TSO/ISPF, PANVALET, SAR, and CA7 (Scheduler). Education Master of Computer Applications in Computer Applications Osmania University - Hyderabad, Telangana Skills Cobol, Mainframe, Sap business objects, Tableau, Adabas, Database, Db2, Oracle, Sql, Natural, Reporting tools, Jira, Unix, Rdbms Additional Information Technical Skills:  Reporting Tools: SAP Business objects WEBi and Tableau.  Universe designing: IDT(Information Design tool)  Database/RDBMS: Oracle 11g, DB2, ADABAS.  Operating Systems: Windows, UNIX, Mainframe Z/OS.  Other Tools: JIRA, Confluence, Zephyr, Service Now  Query Language: SQL,  Programming Languages: COBOL, Natural