QA Analyst QA Analyst QA Analyst - CVS Health, RI MN • IT professional around 8 years of progressive and diverse experience in the IT industry, having hands on experience in Healthcare and Retail domains.  • Rich exposure to Software development methodologies including Agile (scrum), Waterfall.  • Design and build high-performance, reusable, and reliable Apex code with best practices.  • Thorough knowledge in Sales force administration; Apex Language, classes and triggers, Web Services, HTML, Lightning design system, and source code controls.  • Configuration and Customization framework of Salesforce.com in User Configuration, Security & Visibility Features such as OWD, Role Hierarchy, Sharing Rules, Visual Force, Apex, Triggers, Custom Settings & Apex Unit Testing with Governor Friendly Coding.  • Result oriented with excellent communication, analytical and interpersonal skills and comfortable interfacing with all levels of management.  • Ability to learn fast and succeed in a collaborative, fast-paced, startup environment. Work Experience QA Analyst CVS Health, RI July 2017 to Present • The Health Connector helps the customer to shop for and enroll in insurance plans from leading health insurers in the state. One can also find out through the Health Connector if you are eligible for any programs that help you pay for health insurance premiums and lower your health care costs. Involved in Agile methodology reviewed the Product Backlogs, User stories Acceptance Criteria and Technical design specifications document. Interacted with the Project Manager, Business Analysts and Developers to understand the application design and functional specifications.  • Developed Test plan, Test Scenario Design, Test cases, Test scripts from the data mapping documents, Functional Specification documents and mapped the test cases with the requirements for generating the Requirement Traceability Matrix (RTM)  • Redesigned the existing hybrid framework into BDD using written step definition for Gherkin based features.  • Served as a coordinator for all testing activities on a project and wrote test cases to handle Alerts on the web page.  • performed Compatibility Testing & Cross browser compatibility testing on Chrome, Firefox, IE browsers using TestNG.  • Interacted with the Development team and the Environment team in prioritizing the defect list and validating known as bug fixing.  • Found Defects, analyzed, prepared Defect Reports and Status Reports, performed Bug Triage, defect tracking, and reviewed the defects using HP Application Life Cycle Management (ALM) bug tracking tool.  • Shared Daily Status Reports with all the team members, Team Leads, Managers and Clients.  • Used Jenkins tool for continuous integration of the builds.  • Performed testing on the Web Services API's using protocols like HTTP, HTTPS, SOAP and WSDL using SoapUI tool related with various interfaces.  • Performed Backend testing to validate and retrieve the data from the database and used SQL Server to execute SQL queries.  • Coordinated with Business Analyst during User Acceptance Testing (UAT) and assist the user to ensure that application was user friendly and functioning according to desired requirements.  • interacted with developers, business & management teams and end users in case of issues over defects/ requirements.  • Generated weekly Status Reports to the team manager and participated in daily standup meetings, weekly Status Meetings and Scrum meetings with Team members, Team managers, Business analysts and Technical team and end-clients.  • Environment: RC Web Driver, Cucumber, BDD, HPQC, My Eclipse, JIRA, MySQL, Oracle, Java, Cucumber, Restful API Testing, JUnit, TestNG, Firebug, X path.  Environment: Agile, Java, TestNG, Maven, Jenkins, SOAP UI, Ready API, Rest Assured, HTML, XML, XPath, JIRA, Firebug, , Eclipse, Cucumber Tester United Health group September 2015 to June 2017 • Providing end to end testing services for the Ecommerce web application.  • Involved and implementing the daily task like Test Strategy and Test planning.  • Involved in QA Docs (Test Plan, Scenarios, RTM, Test Case Design), Peer Reviews, Test.  • Performed GUI functional testing manually for the application.  • Expertise in Test Plan creation, Test Case Design, Test case Review, Test Case Execution, Writing Test scripts, testing tools Usage, Defect management, and Prepare Test reports.  • Created and maintained automated test script for API testing using Restful.  • Performed API Level testing for web services, enhanced the Test harness and developed many Test suites using XML.XML / SOAP using Soap UI and Postman tool.  • Reviewed database test cases according to assigned Requirements to validate reports by retrieving data with complex SQL queries from SQL Server.  • Performed Functional, System and Regression Testing on web and mobile applications at various phases of the Project life Cycle.  • Record and plays back test in Firefox using  • Perform browser compatibility testing of application under various cross browsers (Safari, Firefox, IE, Chrome) using HTML IDs  • Involved in implementing logging and tracking using Jira.  Environment: Java, JIRA, Jenkins, SOA Tester, Eclipse, Junit, HTML5, CSS, Oracle, Maven, TestNG, Windows 7/XP/Vista. QA Analyst Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Florida October 2014 to August 2015 Key Deliverables  • Created Test Plans, Test strategies, Test cases for various sub projects, enhancements.  • Utilized WSDLs and files to perform web services testing using SOAP UI.  • Wrote and Executed SQL queries to validate the data between the database and the UI.  • Represented QA team for JAD sessions with business analysts, DEV peer reviews by the developers and participated in the QA handoff meetings to better understand the requirements and the scope of the features being tested.  • Participated in Application Walk-through sessions, of upcoming releases.  • Participated defect Triage meeting with the Business, Project management and Developers.  • Reported to the higher management the status of testing and over all progress being made towards the milestone.  • Pulled Test execution and Defect reports from Quality center to report the test coverage and defect resolution.  • Created the Traceability matrix based on Functional requirements in each module.  • Escalated defects to programmers/ developers to resolve the issue to provide bug free product to the client.  • Assigned daily tasks to the offshore team and closely monitored their progress and test case execution status.  Environment: MS SQL Server 2008, HP Quality Center (Application Lifecycle Management) Software Developer Atalosys Solutions January 2011 to June 2014 Responsibilities:  • Participated in design reviews, architecture reviews, code reviews and proposed solutions to the business problems.  • Developed cross browser compatible, customer facing online application based on n -Tier architecture.  • Designed the application using an MVC 5 (Model View Control) Architecture that promotes a clear separation of the presentation, business logic and data access tiers.  • Used Entity Framework 6 in Data Access later.  • Used Razor Views to enable fast coding work flow able, and quickly integrate server code into HTML markup with a minimum of keystrokes.  • Used Node.js in front end-framework in .net experience.  • Worked with integration and migration of CRM application Microsoft Dynamics CRM.  • Designed, developed user interface look and feel and functionality for web users using XML, HTML, JavaScript, DHTML, XHTML.  • Developed and used various Web forms, Custom Controls and User controls using ASP.NET 3.5, C# and JavaScript.  • Developed and consumed various XML Web services using C#. NET.  • Extensively used LINQ to Objects to query the objects based on requirement.  • Developed Reports using SSRS.  • Created user access control to restrict users based on user roles.  • Involved in Unit testing and Integration testing with other modules including TDD.    Environment: ASP.NET 3.5, C#, MVC, Visual Studio 2015, LINQ, ADO.NET, Entity Framework, WCF, HTML, DHTML, XML, SSRS, SSIS, XSL, XSD, SOAP, DB2, SQL Server 2012, CSS, AJAX, MS Visio. Education Master in Computer Applications Mahathma Gandhi University 2007 Bachelor of Science in Computer Science Kerala University 2004 Skills MS SQL SERVER (8 years), SQL (8 years), SQL SERVER (8 years), HTML (7 years), CSS (5 years) Additional Information Technical Skills  Programming Languages: C#, VB.NET, T-SQL, APEX  Web Technologies: ASP.NET, JavaScript, HTML, CSS  Database: MS SQL Server  Framework & Libraries: .NET Framework, Entity Framework  Tools & Utilities: HP Quality Center, Visual Studio, Team Foundation Server