Ruby on Rails Developer Ruby on Rails <span class="hl">Developer</span> Ruby on Rails Developer - Pure Marketplace or local shops Schaumburg, IL Full stack developer with more than 3 years experience in development, design, problem-  solving, and integration of services and applications. actively looking for a Ruby on Rails position with a cutting-edge company. Work Experience Ruby on Rails Developer Pure Marketplace or local shops - Morton Grove, IL January 2018 to Present Pure Platform was established in 2017 to deliver enterprise level and disruptive technologies. In the last two years, Pure Platform has focused on building a frictionless business-to-customer advertisement and reimbursement platform. Customers will be rewarded with tokens known as "Kidus", that can be redeemed at  Pure Marketplace or local shops for products and services. The platform was first rolled out in Iraq.  • Designed and developed API (RESTful WebServices) service which will be used by the UI or mobile app to perform all actions  related to the customer, business or the admin.  • Designed and developed notification API (RESTful WebServices) service which will be used to send notifications to the customer  or business mobile device depending upon event request.  • Use the concept of authentication and authorization, deploy to Amazon EC2 with passenger, nginx, sidekiq, whenever schedule, and redis.  • Backed up and restored the postgress database through rails task.  • Use exception report mailer in case of exceptions to those services.    Keywords: Agile practices (1 week development iterations), Jira, Ruby on Rails, Linux/Mac OS, Github, Trello, Twilio, Bootstrap, Ruby on Rails gems (Devise, Sidekiq, Redis, Devise, Pundit, Figaro, JQuery, Paperclip, Whenever, schedule, Pointless feedback,  Carrierwave, Chartkick, Ckeditor, Cocoon, Geocoder, Haml, Html, Datatables, Encrypted, Exception_notification, Internationalization (i18n), Capistrano, Will_paginate, Cron jobs), Api, Rails tasks, AWS(S3, EC2), Heroku, Mysql/Postgres/SQLLite  databases. Full stack developer Gilga Bytes LLC - San Mateo, CA September 2016 to January 2018 Gilga Bytes is a consulting software engineering and development firm.  • Developed micro services applications using Ruby on Rails and AWS. Involved in requirements gathering, analysis, propose  solutions, design, development, testing and production support. I've used Aws S3, AWS SQS, haml, PostgreSQL, JavaScript, RoR api, waiter screen scraper, Rails Sidekiq served on Linux via Nginx and Passenger. All applications follow strict security and data privacy policies, including HIPAA.  • Designed and developed files API service using Ruby on Rails, ROR gems to upload and download files using amazon s3 buckets.  • Designed and developed a fax service, which is an API Service which enables the sending and distribution of faxes with useful  and varied features.    Keywords: Agile practices (1 week development iterations), Ruby on Rails, Linux/Mac OS, Github, Trello, Twilio, Bootstrap, Ruby on Rails gems (selenium-webdriver, Devise, Sidekiq, Redis, Devise, Pundit, Figaro, JQuery, Paperclip, Whenever, schedule,  Pointless feedback, Carrierwave, Chartkick, Ckeditor, Cocoon, Geocoder, Haml, Html, Datatables, Encrypted, Exception_notification, Internationalization (i18n), Capistrano, Will_paginate, Ar-octopus, attr_encrypted), Api, Rails tasks, AWS  (S3, EC2), Heroku, Mysql/Postgres/SQLLite. Software Engineer Elaf Bank, Bagdad - IQ October 2010 to December 2015 Iraq  Elaf Bank was incorporated as 'Al Baraka for Investment and Finance' in the year 2001 with an initial capital of Iraqi Dinar (IQD) 2 billion. The Bank transformed  its operation to Islamic Banking from Conventional Banking in 2007 with an increase in capital of IQD 8 billion.  • Designed and developed Logger service using Ruby on Rails, ROR gems, which is an API service to store logs from several  services into databases locally and remotely.  • Designed and developed internal web-based applications to serve as dashboards to manage and automate several internal tasks.    Keywords: Linux, Windows, AWS (S3, EC2) Ruby, Rails, Heroku, Mysql/SQL-Lite databases, internationalization (i18n), Mysql, Ar-octopus Education B.Sc. in Electrical Engineering Mustansiryah University - Baghdad, IQ Al-Mustansiriyah University