Application Developer Application <span class="hl">Developer</span> Application Developer - Trend Health Partners Rockville, MD Work Experience Application Developer Trend Health Partners - Hunt Valley, MD October 2018 to Present Create and maintain the Trend application and implement features and functionalities.  • Report creation and generation.  • Front-end development of new application using React. Software Engineer Credible Behavioral Health - Rockville, MD June 2018 to October 2018 Develop and execute solutions for the Credible platform, including new features, enhancements and bug fixes.  • Sole engineer on Windows mobile app (XAML) for extended duration.  • Worked on both legacy and new feature development (Angular 4). Software Developer CDR Associates - Hunt Valley, MD December 2016 to June 2018 Develop and maintain three applications used by internal and external clients.  • Migrated modals from application soon to be depreciated to common core.  • Taken on multiple client requests for import/export reports. Data Reporting Analyst The Living Legacy Foundation of Maryland - Halethorpe, MD April 2016 to December 2016 Create and update reports. Analyze data and provide valuable end-user understanding of data and trends.  • Updated existing reports to use correct data points for valid and exact reporting.  • Created reports user generate on demand over manual data pull and compilation. Data Analyst Edaptive Systems - Owings Mills, MD March 2015 to April 2016 Analysis of ESRD data through SQL queries, assist in gap analysis provided by end-users, document data elements and created test plans in custom application for publication to end-users.  • Assigned role of lead technical developer to life cycle custom application (Data Dictionary).  • Promoted to Data Analyst II within 8 months of employment and requested as a resource on other projects  as lead technical advisor/ developer and analyst. Software Developer Nextgen Healthcare - Horsham, PA August 2011 to February 2015 Remote  Created GUI templates to provide users the ability to document medical relevant data.  • Assigned role of Development Lead of eight of developers for assigning development, assisting in development process, and validating development.  • Excelled in rapid application development and management of technological issues for assigned projects, earning the highest customer satisfaction rating for all software solutions delivered (Responsive time -  95%, Knowledge - 97%, Professionalism - 98%). Technical Support Signature Systems Inc - Newtown, PA November 2010 to August 2011 Worked on GUI menus in VB6 and VB.Net as well as updating database information using MS SQL scripts.  • Highest completion rate for team in performing updates/upgrades and new menu development.  • Created two prototype programs in VB.Net to resolve client/technician interaction issues. Education Bachelor of Science in Science Education in Science Education EAST CAROLINA UNIVERSITY - Greenville, NC 2005 Skills HTML, Jquery, SQL, Javascript, Sql Server