Teradata Developer Teradata <span class="hl">Developer</span> Teradata Developer • 6 years of total IT experience and technical proficiency in Data Warehousing that involves business requirements analysis, application design, data modelling, development, testing and documentation.  • Experience in Teradata database design, implementation and maintenance mainly in large scale data warehouse environments.  • Hands on experience in creating Teradata utility scripts such as BTEQ, FastLoad, MultiLoad, FastExport and TPT.  • Expertise in Teradata SQL coding, macros, query analyzing, performance tuning and testing.  • Experience in writing UNIX shell scripts to support and automate the ETL process.  • Extensively used Informatica Client tools - Repository Manager, Power Center Designer, Workflow Manager and Workflow Monitor.  • Used various transformations like Filter, Router, Expression, Lookup, Aggregator, Sequence Generator, Update Strategy, Joiner, Sorter, Rank and Union to develop robust mappings in the Informatica Designer.  • Creating sessions and Workflows using Informatica Workflow Manager.  • Participated in the tuning of the complex mappings for better performance.  • Involved in the full lifecycle of various projects, including requirement gathering, system designing, application development, enhancement, deployment, maintenance and support.  • Extensive database experience in Teradata, MS SQL Server and highly skilled in creating SQL queries, stored procedures, triggers and functions.  • Identified data issues by doing proactive analysis and worked on performance optimization of database objects and SQL queries.  • Experience on the StarTeam tool to migrate tables, views, load scripts and wrapper scripts to different environments.  • Experience on the Control-M tool to schedule QA and production jobs based on the source dependencies. Work Experience Teradata Developer UST Global May 2018 to April 2019 Project Experience:  PROJECT:  Domain: Healthcare  Client: Anthem Programmer Analyst Cognizant Technology Solutions March 2014 to May 2017 Job Responsibilities:    • Exclusively worked on creating Technical Design documents as per the organization standards by gathering business requirements from Business Users and developed source to target design documents for development  • Loaded the data using different Teradata utilities like BTEQ, FastLoad, MultiLoad, FastExport and TPT scripts.  • Created many scripts to load data into target tables for both initial and incremental loads.  • Developed UNIX shell scripts as a part of the loading process.  • Create/modify Teradata tables, views and data marts. Create Semantic layer views for business users.  • Proficient in performance analysis, monitoring and SQL query tuning using Explain plan, collect stats, primary index etc.  • Exclusively worked in a project where we converted Informatica mappings to Teradata scripts to load data. Analyzed the flow of mappings in the Informatica Power Center and built the scripts in Teradata.  • Experience on creating complex mappings with various transformations and load the data into target tables using Informatica Power Center.  • Based on the requirements provided by the client, analyzed them and provided an estimated time for the completion and worked accordingly.  • Participated in User Acceptance Testing and worked on the Quality center tool to check on the defects raised.  • Monitored the scheduled jobs on daily basis and analyzed the failures if any. Provided the daily status of the jobs in a report.    Project Experience:  PROJECT 1:  Domain: Consumer Goods  Client: PepsiCo  Project: Trade Promotion Management  Environment: Teradata, Unix, Informatica Power Center 9.6  Project Description:  CASTPM project is an Application layer which refers to the Trade promotion management. This project involved in many modules like calculating Accruals which is the accumulation of sales and expenses over a period of time, calculating Promotion Participation Rate, weekly sales, weekly product sales.  Roles and responsibilities:  • Understanding the business requirements and preparing the design documents by analyzing all the source tables, number of intermediate work tables needed to calculate the measure and load into target table.  • Developed Informatica mappings and ensured that all coding and naming standards are maintained according to the Client's requirements.  • Preparing Teradata utility scripts and Unix shell scripts to load the data.  • Have experience in creating full refresh scripts and incremental scripts.  • Performed proactive analysis on the target data and prepared Unit Test Cases document to present it to the client.  • Used Teradata Viewpoint to analyze the root cause of the time taking loads.  • Strong hands on experience in performance tuning of the scripts.  • Have a good knowledge in migrating/deploying the code to higher environments using StarTeam.  • Used the Control-M tool to schedule the jobs and set the dependencies.  • Created Semantic views for the business users and reporting views for the reporting team.    PROJECT 2:  Domain: Consumer Goods  Client: PepsiCo  Project: FritoLay Profitable Solutions  Environment: Teradata, Unix, Informatica Power Center 9.6  Project Description:  FPS project is an Application layer which refers to the FritoLay Profitable Solutions. This project involved in many modules like calculating Cost Center, preparing the plan for the future based on the current year sales, calculating the budget accordingly. Worked on the realignment module of this project.  Roles and responsibilities:  • Analyze the source to target mapping document to prepare the Teradata BTEQ scripts.  • Preparing Teradata utility scripts and Unix shell scripts to load the data.  • Have a good knowledge in migrating/deploying the code to higher environments using StarTeam.  • Used Control-M tool to schedule the jobs and set the dependencies.  • Exclusively worked in a project where we converted Informatica mappings to Teradata scripts to load data. Analyzed the flow of mappings in Informatica and built scripts in Teradata.  • Experienced working with the Data Acquisition team which deals with loading the different source files into Teradata tables using Informatica.  • Created Unix Shell Scripts for the file validation, file creation, error handling  • Experience with Quality Center tool and constantly monitoring if there are any defects raised.  • Knowledge Transfer sessions with the testing and reporting team.  • Actively participated in client interaction sessions and project status meetings.  PROJECT 3:  Domain: Consumer Goods  Client: PepsiCo  Project: Global Sales Data Warehouse  Environment: Teradata, Unix, Informatica Power Center 9.6  Project description:  GSDW project refers to the Global Sales Data Warehouse. This project is a DWL (Data Warehouse Layer) project which is the intermediate layer between Data Acquisition and Application layer. The main aim of this project is to perform the ETL operations and provide the source data for the application team.  Roles and responsibilities:  • Analyze the source to target mapping documents and come up with the data flow diagram.  • Preparing Teradata utility scripts and Unix shell scripts to load the data.  • Have a good knowledge in migrating/deploying the code to higher environments using StarTeam.  • Used Control-M tool to schedule the jobs and set the dependencies.  • Testing the ETL objects in all aspects and fixing the defects if there are any.  • Experience with Quality Center tool and constantly monitoring if there are any defects raised.  • Prepared the technical design documents, detailed field mapping explanation documents, test case documents and data validations.  • Have experience in creating full refresh scripts and incremental scripts. Software Engineer-Web Developer Salasar Industries India Limited January 2013 to March 2014 Project description:  Maheshwari Jagruth is a community based genealogy network to identify the opportunities and provide  resources for strategic initiatives, backed by SaaS. The site is owned and promoted by Salasar Industries India Limited (www.salasarindia.com). Aim of this project is to connect with the people and provide multiple services like online bill payments, online shopping, matrimonial services etc.    PROJECT 1:  Roles and responsibilities:  • Worked on the development of a live website www.Maheshwarijagruth.com which is a genealogy social network.  • Played a key role as the back-end developer of Ruby on Rails, Teradata and front-end web development.  • Worked on SMTP protocol and various ruby gems like Paperclip, Action mailer.  • Had a direct interaction with the business unit on Project Management Reporting, Process management, Estimation and Prioritization.  • Planned and carried out daily scrum activities and weekly estimations.  • Used GitHub as the code storage. Skills Etl, Informatica, Teradata, C++, Ruby, Ruby on rails, Scripting, Shell scripting, Unix, Unix shell, Sql server, Mysql, Oracle, Sql, Viewpoint, Starteam, Jira, Java, Scheduling Additional Information Technical Skills:  Databases: Teradata, SQL Server, MySQL, Oracle  ETL Tools: Informatica Power Center 10.1.1  Migration Tool: StarTeam  Scheduling Tool: Control-M  Testing Tool: Quality Center, ICEDQ  Languages: Unix Shell scripting, Ruby on rails, Java, C++, C  Other Tools: Teradata Viewpoint, Putty, WINSCP, Jira, NetBeans, Sublime, GitHub