Applications Developer Applications <span class="hl">Developer</span> Applications Developer - Sprint Ashburn, VA Motivated web developer excited about learning new technologies and solving interesting  problems. Work Experience Applications Developer Sprint - Reston, VA February 2019 to Present Lead a team of front end developers working on Sprint's e commerce site sprint.com to sell  phones and accessories using Angular.    Front end development work on boostmobile.com care web site to handle customer account  information. Software Engineer Frontpoint Security - Vienna, VA March 2016 to February 2019 Full stack development on customer facing applications to manage customer accounts, activate  security system, and purchase equipment.    Worked in an Agile Scrum environment to deliver new products in the Software Development  Lifecycle.    Developed my.frontpointsecurity.com and activate.frontpointsecurity.com frontend using html, scss, javascript, typescript, webpack, and npm. Primarily used AngularJS framework to develop  javascript components.    Used Virtocommerce CMS to develop and maintain ecommerce solutions to sell security systems.    Built and maintained web services and apis using .NET Framework / Core.    Used Atlassian Suite tools (JIRA, Bitbucket, Bamboo, and Confluence) and migrated to Azure Dev  Ops for story tracking, continuous integration, documentation, and repository storage. Pa - Software Developer KCF Technologies, State College April 2012 to February 2016 Developed and maintained sd.kcftech.com IOT application.    Implemented front end using KnockoutJS, jQuery, gulp, typescript, html and css for sd.kcftech.com    Put in place Dev Ops procedures for continuous integration and continuous delivery using Jenkins.  Maintained linux servers with Puppet Configuration Management tool.    Developed linux platform for edge computing and data collection. Implemented a network  configuration tool using Express / Node JS with javascript, html, css on front end.    Developed web apis and database using ASP.NET Framework and T SQL.    Used GitHub, Jenkins, JIRA, and Confluence for development environment tools. Pa - QA Inspector Teledyne Paradise Datacom, State College December 2009 to April 2012 PHP development with vanilla javascript on quality control database management system.    Inspect electrical and mechanical hardware for quality assurance. Education Masters of Software Engineering in Software Engineering The Pennsylvania State University August 2011 to August 2013 BS in Electrical Engineering Brigham Young University - Provo, UT June 2005 to April 2009 Skills API, C#, Git, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, TYPESCRIPT, JENKINS, JIRA, ASP, CSS, ASP.NET, SQL, ANGULARJS, MVC, DEV OPS, VERSION CONTROL, FRAMEWORKS, INTEGRATION, DOCUMENTATION