Full Stack Python Developer Full Stack Python <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Python Developer - Anthem Atlanta, GA • 8+ years of experience as a Web/Application Developer and coding with analytical programming using Python, Django, PHP, C++, XML, CSS, HTML5/CSS3, AngularJS, DHTML, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Experienced in complete Software Development Life Cycle, and major aspects of technological projects including Requirement Analysis, Design, Development, Database Design, Deployment, Testing, Debugging, and Application Maintenance.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, DJANGO, GTK, QT, C++, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML  • Experience in object-oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python C, C++.  • Experience with Web Development, AWS, Python and the Django framework.  • Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  • Experience with JSP Servlets, Web Services (SOAP, REST) and Tomcat. Effective in executing multiple tasks and assignments ahead of schedule. Created and maintained effective budgets.  • Good experience of software development in Python (libraries used: Beautiful Soup, NumPy, SciPy, matplotlib, Pandas data frame, network, urllib2, MySQL dB for database connectivity) and IDEs - sublime text, Spyder, PyCharm.  • Experienced with JSON based RESTful web services, and XML based SOAP web services and also worked on various applications using python integrated IDEs like Eclipse, IntelliJ, Sublime Text and PyCharm.  • Having experience in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Hands on experience in SVN, Git, JIRA and Bugzilla worked in SQL databases MS SQL, Apache Cassandra, Oracle and MongoDB.  • Experience of dealing with various development methodologies like Waterfall, Scrum, and Agile.  • Experienced in NoSQL technologies like MongoDB, CouchDB Cassandra, Redis and relational databases like Oracle, SQLite and MySQL databases.  • Experienced in implementing Model View Control (MVC) architecture using server-side applications like Django and Flask for developing web applications.  • Experienced with version control systems like Git, GitHub, CVS, and SVN to keep the versions and configurations of the code organized.  • Experience in project deployment using Heroku, Jenkins and Amazon Web Services (AWS) and have knowledge about object-oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, C++ and PHP.  • Experienced in web applications development using Django/Python, Flask/Python, and Node.js, Angular.js, DOJO, jQuery while using HTML/CSS/JS for server-side rendered applications. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Full Stack Python Developer Anthem - Atlanta, GA January 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Participated in the complete SDLC process and used PHP to develop website functionality.  • Developed Business Logic using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the JQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Extensively used bulk collection in PL/SQL objects for improving the performing.  • Developed the ETL mappings in PL/SQL via packages, procedures, functions, views and triggers.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Creation of Python scripts for data access and analysis (Scripts, Data Feeds, XLS, FIXML) to aid in process and system monitoring, and reporting.  • Launching AWS EC2 Cloud Instances using Amazon Images (Linux/Ubuntu) and Configuring launched instances with respect to specific applications.  • Handled operations and maintenance support for AWS cloud resources which includes launching, maintaining and troubleshooting EC2 instances, and S3 buckets and Virtual Private Clouds (VPC)  • Experience in Container management using Docker by writing Docker files and set up the automated build on Docker HUB and installing and configuring Kubernetes.  • Handled Java multi-threading part in back-end component, one thread will be running for each user, which serves that user.  • Experience of using Python modules like NumPy, Matplotlib, Pandas, SciPy, wxPython, PyTables, PyQt, etc., for generating complex graphical data, creation of histograms, etc.    • Extensively used Core Javacollections, Generics, Exception handling, Design patterns for functionality, such as portfolio summary and user information  • Generated the Hibernate XML and Java Mappings for the schemas  • Worked on Microservices for Continuous Delivery environment using Docker and Jenkins.  • Worked on creation of custom Docker container images, tagging and pushing the images.  • Deployed and monitoredMicroservices using pivotal cloud foundry, also managed domains and routes with the cloud foundry.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Used ReactJS to create Controllers to handle events triggered by clients and send request to server.  • Created database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python to build an interactive web based application.  • Experience in using React.js components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Redux, Animations, and Flux concept.  • Used React framework to built the website. Added Redux to simplified components data and state.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python.  • Involved in front end and utilized Bootstrap and Angular.js for page design.  • Used AngularJS UI-route to manage URL route.  • Created Data tables utilizing PyQt to display customer and policy information and add, delete, update customer records  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Coding in LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and PHP) environment.  • Built application logic using Python 3.1.  • Used the Django Framework to develop the application.  • Used Django APIs for database access.  • Version control using GITHub.  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures on MYSQL.  • Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Participated in requirement gathering and worked closely with the architect in designing and modeling.  Environment: Python 3.1x, Django 1.4, Java, Angular.js, Bootstrap, Bash, Django ORM, PyQt, XML, Shell Scripting, MySQL, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, Jenkins, Apache Web Server, Linux. Python Developer Genfare April 2014 to November 2016 Elk Grove Villege, Il    Responsibilities:  • Analysed the system requirement specifications and in client interaction during requirements specifications.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Developed the project in Linux environment.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework  • Worked on Python OpenStack APIs and used NumPy for Numerical analysis.  • Working on DevOps platform and have gained experience in specialized areas related to Chef for Cloud Automation  • Involved in Devops tools such as Jenkins, Nexus, Chef and Ansible for build and deploy applications  • Used Ajax and jQuery for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  • Developed Wrapper in Python for instantiating multi-threaded application.  • Developed frontend of application using Bootstrap (Model, View, Controller), Angular.js framework.  • Utilized standard Python modules such as csv, pickle for development.  • Working knowledge of Java Web Services with real time knowledge using SOAP and REST.  • Performed Unit testing, Integration Testing, GUI and web application testing.  • Created interactive data charts on Customer portal web application using High charts JavaScript library with data coming from Apache Cassandra.  • Fetched twitter feeds for certain important keyword using python-twitter library.  • Used python library BeautifulSoup for Webscraping to extract data for building graphs  • Worked in MySQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization.  • Implemented responsive vector maps and charts on webpages using the data from MongoDB.  • For the large data management used TFS and delivered reliable end-product.  • Learned to index and search/query large number of documents inside Elastic search.  • Updated the client admin tool to have the new features like support for internalization, support for customer service etc  Environment: Python 2.7, Django, Java Script, jQuery, MySQL, HTML, CSS, Linux, Sub Version, BeautifulSoup, NumPy, AJAX. Python Developer Five9 - San Ramon, CA October 2012 to March 2014 Responsibilities:  • Developed front-end and back-end of the application using python on Django web framework.  • Automating data movements using python scripts, involved in splitting, validating and processing of files.  • Used several python libraries like NumPy, Matplotlib, Pandas.  • Performed Software Development Life Cycle, Database designs, agile methodologies, coding, testing of enterprise applications and IDE's such as Jupiter Notebook, PyCharm, Emacs, WebStorm, IntelliJ and Visual Studio.  • Build all database mapping classes using Django models.  • Called the RESTFUL webservices to get the JSON object (response) and manipulated the JSON object to display the response in the webpage.  • Worked in MySQL database on queries and writing stored procedures for normalization and renormalization.  • Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  • Performed backup and recovery of MySQL databases.  • Implemented responsive vector maps and charts on webpages using the data from MongoDB.  • Creating scripts to migrate data between different databases like Oracle to Postgres and vice versa using enterprise migration tool kit and UNIX scripts.  • Used PowerShell for DevOps in Windows based systems  • Managed Linux and windows virtual servers on AWS EC2 using open-source chef server.  • Migrated the applications from internal data centre to AWS.  • Skilled in using collections in python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  • Delivering deliverables on time by working on agile and waterfall methodologies.  • Used Django for framework for accessing various consumer data from various sources.  Environment: Python-2.7, MySQL, Python Scripts, Oracle, JavaScript, MongoDB, AWS EC2, Django, NumPy, GIT HUB Software Developer Jackson Hewitt - Sarasota, FL July 2010 to September 2012 Responsibilities:  • Involved in development of Front-end Using Angular2.0, JavaScript, HTML5 and Back-end using Enterprise Java Beans.  • Wrote modular, secure, and well-tested front-end code in JS, HTML, and CSS using latest web application frameworks  • Analyse, develop, test, code, implement and maintain software and computer systems to meet  business and project requirements  • Responsible for creating the JavaScript code, for different modules.  • Extensive back-end API testing using POST-MAN.  • Documented software defects using bug tracking tool JIRA  • Automated front-end web pages using Selenium, Robot Framework.  • Used HP-ALM for writing and tracking test cases.  • Refactored a Templating application designed to construct data input sub-modules in HTML.  • Developed Front-End web pages using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap4.  • Working on browsers compatibility issues.  • Supported for the defects on time-based priority in DEV/QA/ UAT and PROD environments.  • Writing service methods and SQL queries, PL/SQL to interact with the Oracle DBMS.  Environment: Angular 2.0, Bootstrap3, SQL, PL-SQL, Robot Framework, Selenium, POST-MAN, JIRA, SOAP UI, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap4 Angular, GIT, SQL Server, Restful Web services. Education Bachelor's Skills JAVASCRIPT (8 years), CSS (6 years), HTML (6 years), JAVA (6 years), DATABASE (5 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:  Programming Skills Python, C, C++. Java.  Web Technologies HTML/HTML5/CSS, PHP, JavaScript, XML, JSON.  Web Framework Flask, Django, Pyramid, NodeJS, Hibernate, Angular JS  Development Tools PyCharm, Notepad++, SVN, Pydev Eclipse, Sublime, Magento, Slack, SQL Alchemy.  Operating Systems Windows7,8 & 10, Linux/Unix Ubuntu, MAC OS  Python Libraries Panda, NumPy, Unit Test, SciPy, Matplotlib, PyTables  Methodologies Agile, SCRUM and Waterfall.  Databases Microsoft SQL Server, Oracle, MySQL, Cassandra, PostgreSQL and NoSQL database MongoDB (2.6,2.4)  Version Controls GitHub, Sub version.  Protocols TCP/IP, HTTP/HTTPS, SNMP, SMTP, Deployment Tools Heroku, Jenkins.  Web Servers JBoss 4.0.5, BEA Web Logic, Web Sphere, Apache Tomcat 5.5/6.0.  Web Services AWS, SOAP, RESTful Webservices.  Agile Methodologies TTD, SCRUM.  Technical Writing Tools Spark, MSWord, Excel, Pages, Docs.  Other Tools Eclipse, ANT Build, Putty, Visual Studio.