Senior Software Developer Senior <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Software Developer - American Airlines, Inc Richardson, TX Organized, motivated professional with 10+ years of experience in application architecture; seeking a more challenging position as senior or lead architect. Professional bringing superior architecture and application design capabilities. A team player demonstrating strong skills in technical experience and communication skills. Well experienced in IT applications such as Java, Microservices, web services, cloud platforms, and J2EE Enterprise applications. Work Experience Senior Software Developer American Airlines, Inc November 2015 to Present • Currently leading three main application projects which include: Credit card processing, alternate form of payment, and payment gateway services.  • Participated in requirement analysis with Business Analysts and defined high-level and low-level design documents from the requirements.  • Responsible for communication with the business owners to gather requirements and determine scope for the future phases and provide estimates on the tasks.  • Architected the system after working with various interfacing systems/teams both upstream and downstream  • Designed mock ups and prototypes and demonstrated to stake holders for approval.  • Mentored developers to bring them to speed on Hibernate/JPA, DAO pattern and Eclipse.  • Defined the domain classes utilizing Hibernate/JPA annotations. Designed and implemented DAO layer using Spring/Hibernate/JPA for CSSOP project which has become the underlying core for other developers to build upon.  • Defined XSD data types that are part of the interface between different systems which forms the basis for the WSDL contracts.  • Designed and developed web services (both the client and server side) for the external systems.  • Designed the entire project structure and build process for the projects using Jenkins build script.  • Worked with developers and testers to Perform Unit testing, Integration testing, regression testing and call flow testing.  • Supported production environment for release deployments and worked with customers to isolate problems and provided resolutions through bug fixes and change requests.  • Successfully completed 2016 and 2017, PCI assessment for Global Credit card processing. Facilitated the build process for timely and automated continuous builds and semi continuous deployment.  • Experienced in HA (high availability) design architecture pattern.  • Experienced in working in JMS technology.  • Experienced in working pivotal could platform.  • Experienced in working in Micorservices  • Experienced in working in PCF services, i-e circuit breaker, Ribbon pattern, Netflix Zuul, Service registry  • Experience in working in MongoDB.  • Experienced in working in RABBIT MQ    Environment and Tools: JDK 1.8,1.7,1.6/1.5, Sun Solaris, Eclipse 3.4, Toad, Clear Case, CVS, Java, Spring, Hibernate, JDBC, XML, JSP, Web Services(SOAP and REST), HTML, JQuery, oracle, DB2, PCF (Pivotal Cloud Foundry ), Mircoservices, Rabbit MQ, MongoDB Senior Software developer TATA Consultancy Services August 2015 to November 2015 • Created implementation for a new product using a cloud foundry and microservices approach that allows applications to be elastic and cloud friendly.  • Wrote Gemfire functions to store and retrieve data from Gemfire.  • Used Pivotal Gemfire for Distributed Caching Worked closely with Business Analysts to design requirements that are technologically feasible.  • Integrated microapps with MFA to reduce fraud  • Created and developed payments, user Mangement, and Account Management microapps  • Developed a microApp to consume CIL stored Procedures for UAuth table  • Refactored Global data (Landing Page)  • Developed user management, Registration, dispute and dispute crud Microservices  • Worked in payments module  • Work with team to resolve performance issues    Environment and Tools: Java 8, Spring Boot, GemFire, Eureka, Zuul, RTC, Json, Rest Services, SOUPUI, Agile, JIRA, WINSCP, Putty. Senior Software Engineer MOHA Associates LLC March 2015 to August 2015 • Requirement gathering, analyzing, designing and documentation.  • Involved in complete end to end analysis and design for the application.  • Analyzed complete Application code to find out how it affects the user if the data received from upstream systems change.  • Completed Server Setup for new companies and deployed the code.  • Communicating with end users.  • Maintaining application servers, hardware servers, and network.  • Maintaining daily database backups, restoring backups, procedures, triggers, schedules, and SQL.  • Developing web application for eTracking Management (accounting and logistics) using JSF 2.0, PrimeFaces 4.1 for view, and look and feel using Dependency Injection Spring 3.2 and ORM Hibernate 4.1.    Environment and Tools: NetBeansIDE, Jasper IReport (For Reports), Java, JSF, PrimeFaces 4.1, Spring 3.2, Hibernate 4.1, Oracle 10g, JBOSS, Glassfish 4.0, Red Hat Linux (for deployment) Software Engineer, Grade OG-2 First Micro Finance Bank March 2013 to March 2015 • Maintaining and supporting existing distributed bank software.  • Involved in complete end to end analysis and design for the application.  • Analyzed complete Application code to find out how it affects the user if the data received from upstream systems change.  • Completed Server Setup for new companies and deployed the code.  • Communicating with end users.  • Provide development data to QA.  • Supporting existing reporting module for 150 branches.  • Team lead for developing Bank Financial Reports using Jasper IReport.  • Working as a senior team member for developing Centralized Bank Application.  Projects:  • Converting the bank financial report from crystal 2005 server to jasper IReport using  ? NetBeans IDE, Jasper IReport, Java, DB2 Database  • Connect different branches, share data, and create dynamic reports using  ? NetBeansIDE, Jasper IReport (For Reports), Java, JSF, PrimeFaces 4.1, Spring 3.2, Hibernate 4.1, DB2 Version 10, Oracle 10g, JBOSS, Glassfish 4.0  ? Red Hat Linux (for deployment) Senior Software Engineer and DBA eDrive Technology June 2011 to March 2013 • Maintaining existing MIS System.  • Maintaining and troubleshooting of Data Center.  • Support direct customers.  • Requirement gathering, analyzing, designing and documentation.  • Developing Live Tracking Web application.  • Maintaining and troubleshooting of database.  • Maintaining daily database backups, restoring backups, procedures, triggers, schedules, and SQL.  • Server configuration and installation.  Projects:  • Create a Live Tracking Web Application to check vehicle location, vehicle activity and events using  ? NetBeansIDE, Jasper IReport (For Reports), Java, JSF, PrimeFaces 3.5, SQL Server 2005, JBOSS  • Configure a DTS (Data Transfer Server) to fetch records from current live database and transmit to warehouse database using  ? NetBeans IDE, Java, SQL Server 2005  • Configure SMS Sever to send status of the vehicle based on events such as Ignition on, ignition off, fence out etc. using  ? NetBeans IDE, Java, SQL Server 2005  • Configuration and Managing of Data Center and Email Server Software engineer Sami Enterprises June 2010 to June 2011 Developing and Designing software using JDBC.  Projects  • Develop an Inventory and Accounting Management System using  * NetBeans IDE  * Java, JSF, PrimeFaces 3.4, JDBC  * Oracle 10g Education Master in Software Engineering in Software Engineering University of Texas at Dallas - Dallas, TX August 2015 to May 2017 Bachelors of Science in Software Engineering in Software Engineering Beaconhouse National University August 2007 to May 2011 Skills Eclipse, Ejb, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jboss, jquery, Jsf, Jsp, Servlets, Database, Db2, Jdbc, Sql server, Mysql, Oracle, Sql, Database development, Html, Javascript