Software Engineer <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Software Engineer - Alpha Clinical Systems Piscataway, NJ • 8+years' experience in Design and Development of Enterprise-level Web& Desktop applications using Microsoft Technologies.  • Creation of Rich data centric presentation tiers, business logic facades, provider independent data logic layers, and back-end programming.  • Expertise in .Net Technologies (1.0/1.1/2.0/3.0/4.0) using ASP.Net MVC,ASP.NET,C#.NET, VB.Net, Visual Basic, ADO.Net, Entity Framework,Win Forms, Web Forms, WPF, WCF, XAML and IIS in the areas of performance, security, scalability, and extensibility.  • Extensive experience using C# and XAML with MVVM design principles for UI development.  • Experience in developing applications using ASP.NET Web Forms, Windows Presentation Foundation (WPF), LINQ andWindows Communication Foundation (WCF).  • Developed Web Applications using HTML, ASP.Net, VBScript, JavaScript, .Net, and XML.  • Developed Desktop Application using C#.net, Windows forms, WPF, MVVM, and XAML.  • Experience in developing and consuming Web Services and related technologies: XML, XSL/XSLT, XML Schemas,XSD,SOAP and DOM Parser.  • Experience in methodologies ER Diagrams, Flow Diagrams and Design Docs using VISIO.  • Experience using various Versioning systems like Concurrent Versioning System (CVS), Visual Source Safe (VSS) and Tortoise Sub Versioning System (SVN).  • Experience in preparing risk analysis document which consists of Cause, Effect and Mitigation plans.  • Working experience on Microsoft Enterprise Library includes DAL (Data access applicationblocks/Configuration/Caching/Security).  • Extensive knowledge on all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (Planning, Requirement analysis, Design, coding, testing, deployment).  • Hard working and decisive, diligent individual. Committed and oriented to individual and organizational goals. Experience in fast paced environment and acclaimed for completion of many challenging projects successfully.  • Created database objects using SQL Server including complex Stored Procedures, triggers, cursors, tables, and views and other SQL joins and statements for applications. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Engineer Alpha Clinical Systems - Piscataway, NJ April 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed an n-tier architecture that included Presentation, Business and Data Access Layers using C#.Net, ASP.NET and SQL Server.  • Support and troubleshoot the existing webform-based system using C#/ASP.Net, VS 2013, SQL Server  • Design and development web pages using ASP.Net  • Creating custom site pages, lists, views and master pages and adding ASP, Silverlight controls.  • Develop controls such as user-controls, list views, editing and validation, modal popups and Ajax extenders, dropdown lists, file uploaders, query strings, SQL Data source  • Use JQuery client-side scripting for autocomplete, tabs, validation, date picking, sorting, auto-submit and other functions  • Very good experience in SQL Server Database backups, restores, writing stored procedures and triggers.  • Analyze, develop and test new systems using C#/ASP.Net.  • Create SQL Server databases, tables, views, stored procedures and database backups using SQL Server Management Studio.  • Worked on Vulnerability testing and cross site scripting in Asp.net.  • Designed, implemented and configured WCF service layer.  • Write WCF Service and Operations Contracts to be utilized by tablets.  • Change settings in web.config file according to application needs  • Interface with user to ascertain their requirements  • Implement new business logic.  • Worked inProduction Support Team. Analyzed and resolved production support tickets  • Developed Object Model and Data Access Model based on Prototype design pattern using C# and EDMX files using Entity Framework which helps in bound columns in the Data Grid to display information.  • Expertise in all phases of software development life cycle: Insightful experience in project planning, designing application, formulation of deployment strategy and creation of software products as per client requirements.  • Used Team foundation server and Tortoise Git for version Controls.  • Migrated Ruby windows services and web services into c# applications.  • Used Talend ETL Tool to process the data from the different source systems.    Environment: ASP.Net 3.5, ADO.Net2.0, ActiveX controls, SQL Server 2005,TFS,CSS, XML, XSD, Microsoft AJAX Tool, Web Services, IIS 6.0. .Net Developer Western Union - Montvale, NJ November 2016 to March 2018 Responsibilities:  • Gathered business requirements, provided architecture and design for financial modules.  • Extensive experience using C# and XAML with MVVM design principles for UI development.  • Migration of Pre-existing web forms segmentation pages to WPF  • Used WPF in creating different animated scenes using the combination of transforms, animation controls (storyboard, double animation) and color effects.  • Implemented WPF in creating custom controls, 3D graphics.  • Coding the presentation layer using WPF and silver light and service layer using Windows Communication foundation technology.  • Developed Multithreading techniques for creating high performance applications.  • Created LINQ enabled database layer using API such as LINQ to SQL and Entity Framework.  • Developed WCF services to enable effective communication between SOA.  • Sql server database stored procedure creation and database maintenance.  • Worked with IBM DB2 database using db2 .net data provider.  • Creation of custom Sliver Light Controls  • TFS Source control Maintenance  • Modification of MVVM design pattern  • Extensively used RDBMS monitoring tools: SQL Server Management studio, SQL reporting services (SSRS) SQL Profiler and SQL Server system stored procedures.  • Build Transact-SQL scripts to alter related tables, triggers and stored procedures.  • Used XML, Serialization and de-serialization, Memory streams and XML Schemas used extensively to exchange data between data layer and SQL Server.  • Implemented Customerror handling to deal with inevitable errors that pop up in application.    Environment: WPF,WPF Tool Kit, ADO.NET, XAML, Entity Framework ,IBM DB2, SQL server 2008 , ASP.NET 4.0, C# 4.0, LINQ, xml. .Net Developer DXC, Tysons,VA March 2014 to October 2016 Responsibilities:  • Gathered business requirements, provided architecture and design.  • Analyzed and designed new WPF application using MVVM and Repository pattern, from design to completion.  • Developing application using MVVM Design Pattern and Entity Framework  • Developed Views, Models and View Models using WPF  • Designed large numbers of WPF Forms, Custom Controls and User Controls using XAML language for UI and Dynamic Web Parts for personalized content which allows Change, Edit, Move the content on pages as per users' own choice.  • Extensive experience using XAML with MVVM design principles for UI development.  • Applied multithreaded techniques for creating high performance applications. Multithreading was used to process data in chunks to improve performance.  • Developed the service application using WCF and Entity framework.  • Interacted and led the offshore team, ensured the task distribution and delivery on time.  • Actively involved in designing and developing user interface (GUI) using WPF controls, devexpress controls  • Using Data Grid Controls to display order data and other details.  • Actively participated in the database design activity.  • Created and maintained Tables, Stored Procedure, Views and Queries.  • Scheduled the jobs to do these tasks periodically.  • Created and deployed web services using C#, XML.    Environment: .NET, WPF, MVVM, Repository Pattern, Console Application, C#, Tortoise SVN, Windows 7,WCF,SQL Server. .Net Developer Anthem, Inc August 2012 to February 2014 Responsibilities:  • Developed UI components using ASP.NET and VB.NET.  • Successfully engaged external clients in proposal and requirements gathering meetings.  • Successfully completed Analysis and Design of all the modules within the application.  • Developed the Business Objects according to Business Logic.  • Created ASP.NET Web forms and server controls to display dynamic data obtained through the use of Microsoft ADO.NET and data binding.  • Used Cascading Style Sheets for branding purposes and user look and feel.  • Used JavaScript for Client side validation.  • Heavily used .NET Web Controls, Validation Controls and User Controls.  • Extensively worked on Master Pages and Content Pages  • Extensively used the ASP.NET features like Grid View, Detail View and other controls.  • Performed Unit Testing on the entire application.  • Involved in testing the product during post-production.  • Used cookies, Sessions and View state to store user information.  • Wrote SQL scripts and stored procedures, Functions in Oracle 9i to execute various database routines.  • Wrote Test Cases using N-Unit.  • Performed Unit Testing on both SQL Server and Oracle databases from the product perspective.  • Used Visual Source Safe (VSS) for Version Control  • Worked on security issues related to user authentication and authorization.  • Worked on bug fixing for the total product during post production.  • Provided immediate production support as needed to address any issues.  • Documented all the coding involved.    Environment: VB.NET, ASP.NET, SQL Server, IIS, Visual source safe, MS Visio, VB Script, Java Script, Windows 2000,Oracle 9i .Net Developer Conduent - Florham Park, NJ October 2010 to July 2012 Responsibilities:  • Designed and implemented user-interface screens using .Net technologies: ASP.Net 4.0 (Web Forms) with VB.Net (Win Forms). Designed XML Schema Object components using VB.Net language for enterprise-level web applications. Incorporated business logic in VB.Net and handled transactions using ADO.Net.  • Configured web configuration file for application as well as Web service credentials and IIS settings.  • Implemented various Menus driven Custom access levels for administrators, employees and customers to enforce the authentication.  • Designed database in MS-SQL and created stored procedures, functions, views to reduce complexity of front-end SQL queries and triggers to enforce entity relationships.  • Developed Web Services to encapsulate business logic components to be used in a distributed environment using VB.Net and exposed them through SOAP and XML Schemas.  • Improved the user interface by making searches easier and navigation more intuitive by enabling users to search by various criteria.  • Used XML, XSL, XSD Schemas, Serialized/De-Serialized Objects and Memory streams extensively to transfer data from SQL Server.  • Contributed in unit testing, bug tracking for web based applications.  • Created custom reporting wizards by using SQL Reporting services.  • Designed DAL (Data Access Layer) Application blocks by using Microsoft Enterprise Library 3.1.  • Designed and developed web forms using user ASP.NET controls Server Controls.  • Designed and developed Custom controls to use with Web Forms.  • Used ADO.Net components such as Datasets, Data Reader, Data View and Data Table.  • Extensive use of Web Services, SOAP, XML, XSL to expose the reports to facilitate information sharing.  • Designed and developed .NET components using VB.NET and XML to communicate with WebServices.  • Worked on ASP.NET features like state Management, cachingfeatures, configuring optimizations and securing web application  • Later in the professional career also involved into the development of the company's website.  • Later had the responsibility of deployment and the maintenance of the website and also upgrading of the sections and the codes of the website.  • Also was involved in the maintenance and the designing of the database required in the website.    Environment: ASP.Net 2.0, VB.Net 2.0, ADO.Net2.0, Griaule Biometric Tool(SDK), SQL Server 2005,SQL Reporting services 2005(SSRS),Ad Hoc Reporting, DAL Application Blocks, Enterprise Library, XML, XSL, (XML Schemas)XSD, Microsoft AJAX Tool, Web Services, IIS 6.0, Server 2003. Education Bachelor's ,,,,, Skills ADO, DB2, MS ACCESS, ADO.NET, SQL SERVER, MYSQL, ORACLE, PL/SQL, SQL, .NET, VISUAL STUDIO, C#, C++, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, WCF, REPORT WRITER, SVN, VB.NET, VB 6