AngularJS and NodeJS Developer AngularJS and NodeJS <span class="hl">Developer</span> UI(Front End) Developer Seattle, WA • 8+ years of professional IT experience in developing modern web application using MEAN (MongoDB, ExpressJS, AngularJS and NodeJS) stack.  • 6 months of Experience in Adobe CQ5.  • Hands on experience in software development life cycle (SDLC) in designing and developing user experience of web applications using HTML5/HTML, CSS/CSS3, Javascript and Ajax.  • Hands on experience in creating modules, controllers, directives and filters to deploy the entire business logic.  • Experience in using UI-Router for binding data to different states and rendering different templates.  • Worked on creating log-in authentication module using AngularJs and Javascript.  • Experience in developing server side of an application using NodeJs.  • Experience in using spring boot for developing Microservices.  • Code, test and operate nodeJS based services.  • Built Microservices for the application using NodeJs.  • Excellent experience in working with the Database environments like MySQL, MongoDB, Redis and Elasticache.  • Good understanding in Object Oriented Programming (OOP) and capable of implementing OOP in Javascript.  • Experience using Hibernate for mapping Java Classes with database and using Hibernate Query Language(HQL) and experience in developing data models using Hibernate POJO's and configuring Hibernate Persistence layer.  • Used web services like SOAP and Restful web services.  • Used Multithreading concept to improve the performance.  • Hands on experience in developing Templates, components using JSP or Slightly scripting language, OSGI bundles, JCR(JSR-283/ JSR 170),Sightly, ,sling services, custom workflow process and customizing out of the box widget and components.  • Hands on experience in unit and integration testing with Supertest.  • Hands on experience in working with Version Control System (VCS) like GIT.  • Participating in estimating project effort and delivery timelines.  • Experience in using Java IDE tools like WebStorm 11, Net Beans and Eclipse.  • Familiarity with Agile development including daily scrum and weekly iteration reviews and planning. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience AngularJS and NodeJS Developer T-MOBILE - Seattle, WA June 2017 to Present Description: T-Mobile US, Inc. is a wireless network operator the German telecommunications company Deutsche Telecom (DT) is a majority shareholder, through its holding company, T-Mobile International AG. AG. Its headquarters are located in Bellevue. This project includes development of Enterprise UI (EUI) web application on CQ5 and on AngularJS and NodeJS which provides a single sign-on experience to each user across the various services.    Responsibilities:  • Requirements gathering for new site and clarifications.  • Developed Microservices in NodeJs for Authentication Services like Restful Authentication Service(RAS) and Biometric Authentication Service (BAS).  • Worked on Microservices to generate Web Token which is called Token Management system(TMS).  • Worked on creating the pages for App and few other clients.  • Used Angular5 as the development framework to build a single-page application and to create more interactive front end development.  • Developed Web pages to display various screens on desktop and mobile devices using JSP, HTML5 and CSS.  • Used UI Bootstrap for creating dynamic user interface using Angular JS.  • Developed the Entire server side application using NodeJS.  • Used Grafana Dashboard as the monitoring tool and to check the health of the application.  • Used Influx DB to post all the transaction to Grafana Dashboard.  • Worked on Redis data storage for storage few key elements.  • Participated in sessions with team members to analyze business requirements  • Followed agile methodology, using two week sprints for each module.  • Indulged in fixing the defects. CQ5/Angular and NodeJs Developer T-MOBILE - Seattle, WA December 2016 to June 2017 Responsibilities:    • Understanding existing site.  • Requirements gathering for new site and clarifications.  • Formulated and documented technical architecture, components and strategies for mitigating technical challenges.  • Design and develop Custom Components, workflows and templates in AEM 5.6.1  • Design and develop Custom Components, workflows and templates.  • Install/Configure Adobe CQ.  • Used SVN for Version Management i.e Git, Bitbucket  • Used AngularJS as the development framework to build a single-page application and to create more interactive front end development.  • Developed Web pages to display various screens on desktop and mobile devices using JSP, HTML5 and CSS.  • Used RESTful for web service by exchanging JSON data between the applications.  • Developing and integrating the application using Net beans and Web storm.  • Experience in developing Microservices for payment processing, creating order and generating receipt and Integrating it with the front end.  • Used Spring Core Annotations and Spring Boot for micro-services.  • Experience in writing front end using Typescript.  • Worked on writing content Authoring Guide for all the Content in the application.  • Participated in sessions with team members to analyze business requirements.  • Responsible for deploying code using Unix scripts.  • Development and Integration of the application using Eclipse IDE.  • Indulged in fixing the defects.  • Followed agile methodology, using two week sprints for each module. Software Engineer T-MOBILE - Seattle, WA June 2015 to November 2016 Responsibilities:    • Understanding existing site.  • Requirements gathering for new site and clarifications  • Design and develop Custom Components, workflows and templates.  • Used SVN for Version Management i.e Git, Bitbucket  • Used AngularJS as the development framework to build a single-page application and to create more interactive front end development.  • Developed Web pages to display various screens on desktop and mobile devices using JSP, HTML5 and CSS.  • Migrating Entire CQ5 Content into AngularJs and rewriting the Java code into NodeJs.  • Design and develop Custom Components, workflows and templates.  • Design & develop common platform frameworks on NodeJS. Ex:- logging, rest client, exception handling.  • Define & setup Stash git projects and workflows, branching strategies.  • Used UI Bootstrap for creating dynamic user interface using Angular JS.  • Developed the Entire server side application using NodeJS.  • Developing and integrating the application using Net beans and Web storm.  • Participated in sessions with team members to analyze business requirements  • Responsible for deploying code using Unix scripts.  • Followed agile methodology, using two week sprints for each module. CQ5 & Java Developer Prime Therapeutics - Eagan, MN October 2013 to May 2015 Requirement: Redesign Prime Therapeutics web application, which is a new and improved experience for managing prescription drug benefits. The application provides features like manage coverage for medicine to health insurers, employers, seniors on Medicare and individuals. We process claims and deliver medicine to our members, and we offer clinical services for people with complex medical conditions such as cancer.    Responsibilities:  • Understanding existing site  • Requirements gathering for new site and clarifications.  • Experienced in CQ and associated technologies like Sling, OSGI, Felix, JackRabbit, JCR, CRX.  • Involved in developmental activities using the front end technologies like HTML, CSS3, JSON and jQuery.  • Worked on back end restful services which would be integrated with front end for the products data etc.  • Used Java Server Pages (JSP), JSP Tag Libraries, Struts Tag Libraries, Custom Tag libraries in the development of different user interfaces.  • Extensive JavaScript utilization for Business Rules and Client side validation.  • Developed Servlets, JSP, and Java classes for implementing business logic.  • Using Java Collection Framework classes for holding the application objects.  • Used JavaScript, for the client end data validations.  • Design and develop Custom Components, workflows and templates.  • Unit testing of developed modules.  • Code reviews with Team.  • Followed Agile Scrum development methodology to develop the applications.  • Enabling business teams to use components developed.  • Training business users on a needy basis. Associate Software Engineer SQUAREGAIN TECHNOLOGIES PVT. LTD - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2012 to April 2013 • Involved in analyzing business requirements, design and implement solutions.  • Used Multithreading concept to improve the performance.  • Developed highly interactive Web screens based on HTML, CSS, JavaScript and display Tag Libraries.  • Used Hibernate, a technique of mapping data representation from business logic to database with SQL based schema.  • Used Hibernate for mapping of objects to tables.  • Responsible for configuring the Hibernate to connect to the MySQL database.  • Extensively worked with the retrieval and manipulation of data from the MySQL database by writing Queries using SQL Queries on the SQL Server.  • Worked on back-end development.  • Development and Integration of the application using Eclipse IDE.  • Indulged in fixing the defects. Intern - Java Developer AmeriSoft Solutions India Pvt Ltd - Hyderabad, Telangana December 2011 to May 2012 Responsibilities:  • Involved in analyzing business requirements, design and implement solutions.  • Used Multithreading concept to improve the performance.  • Developed highly interactive Web screens based on HTML, CSS, JavaScript and display Tag Libraries.  • Used Hibernate, a technique of mapping data representation from business logic to database with SQL based schema.  • Used Hibernate for mapping of objects to tables.  • Responsible for configuring the Hibernate to connect to the MySQL database.  • Extensively worked with the retrieval and manipulation of data from the MySQL database by writing Queries using SQL Queries on the SQL Server.  • Worked on back-end development.  • Developed Struts-config.xml and Web.xml configuration files in the application.  • Development and Integration of the application using Eclipse IDE.  • Indulged in fixing the defects.    Environment: Java, Struts, Hibernate, JSP, Oracle, JDBC, JNDI, JavaScript Education Master's Skills Angular JS, Node JS, Express JS, Mongo DB, Adobe CQ5., MySQL, Java script, Redis, JSP, GIT, UI, React, Jquery, Front End, Javascript, Front-End, Angular, CSS3, Node, Bootstrap