Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> IT Specialist & Web Developer Tucson, AZ I am a passionate and professional individual with a desire to solve problems and learn on the way. I am a team player with several years of customer service work that I feel would help me fit well in any team environment. This coupled with my years of experience with web development and IT technologies I feel ensures I can thrive in this career field. I offer stability, efficiency and an exceptional work ethic. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Developer Opus Inspection - Tucson, AZ August 2018 to Present • Worked on several GUI interfaces for titling and registration in several states  • Collaborated with members of the team of developers to plan out and resolve website bugs and new releases Associate Programmer Vantage West Credit Union - Tucson, AZ November 2017 to August 2018 • Worked on a programming team to automate report generation and functions pertaining to bank customers  • Gained experience in working with end users to ensure proper specs when developing new or improved report functions. Cashier Fry's Food and Drug - Tucson, AZ July 2012 to November 2017 • As a cashier on the front I ensured the best possible experience for every customer.  • Taught me how to engage with customers both on a personal and professional level while handling responsibilities given to me by my management. IT Internship Sam Levitz Furniture - Tucson, AZ May 2016 to August 2016 • Shadowed the IT manager which gave me real world insight into the IT field.  • Hands on experience with maintaining networks as well as physical repairs on site at the many stores around Tucson. Education Bachelor's in Information Science and Technology University of Arizona - Tucson, AZ August 2013 to August 2017 High school Santa Rita High School - Tucson, AZ August 2009 to May 2013 Skills customer service (7 years), Computer Hardware (3 years), HTML 5 (3 years), CSS3 (3 years), MySQL (2 years), Python (2 years), PHP (2 years), C# (1 year), Javascript (3 years) Awards School of Information Student Success Award 2017-05 For outstanding academic achievement and being the first to graduate college in my immediate family I was awarded the Student Success Award from the School of Information.