Jr. Software Engineer Jr. <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Jr. Software Engineer Windsor Locks, CT Passionate to solve challenging problems by my innovative ideas, knowledge, skills and experience with the objective of development and growth of the organization. Work Experience Jr. Software Engineer Croods Consolidates Pvt. Ltd - Ahmedabad, Gujarat April 2017 to December 2018 • Had an experience as a lead Java Developer.  • Mainly involved in creating web applications for different projects.  • Involved in creating workflow and followed it as per instructions.  • Created design documents for different functionalities of assigned project.  • Built database in MySQL and managed it as per changing requirements.  • Worked with bug tracking and Agile project management tool like JIRA.  • Programmed application code and maintained using source control tool like git.  • Developed RESTful Web-services.  • Performed testing, debugging and responsible for production code deployments on a regular scheduled basis.  • Implemented security measures in accordance with current best practices. Jr. Software Engineer AIMDek Technologies Private Ltd - Ahmedabad, Gujarat June 2016 to February 2017 • Worked as a Java Developer.  • Learnt Liferay Portal and its functionalities.  • Implemented Theme, Hooks and Layout in liferay portal.  • Learnt different frameworks like Liferay MVC, Spring MVC, Primefaces.  • Involved in multiple projects developing on different frameworks.  • Worked in a back-end as well as in a front-end part of the web application.  • Followed Sprint and Scrum Agile methodology for development of the application.  • Participated in daily scrum meetings, sprint planning and sprint demonstration.  • Created database schemas in relational databases like MySQL.  • Optimized queries to enhance system performance.  • Used to perform unit testing, regression testing and integration testing.  • Debugged and traced down defects within existing applications.  • Had an experience of SONAR to measure source code quality.  • Documented specifications and developed design, program logic, flow-charting, testing, debugging and documentation with full awareness of cost, risk and performance.  • Maintains professional and technical knowledge by attending educational workshops; reviewing professional  publications; benchmarking current practices. Backend Developer Almashines Technologies Pvt. Ltd - Ahmedabad, Gujarat May 2015 to July 2015 • Web application development to create enterprise web portal using PHP and MySQL.  • Strong understanding of MVC patterns.  • Developed new and maintained existing application.  • Skilled in integration of frontend elements created by frontend developers.  • Experienced in database design and maintenance.  • Created Database Tables and Database Views.  • Skilled in performing complex queries, indexing and table partitioning.  • Learnt to optimize query.  • Developed stored procedures and triggers. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science and Engineering in Computer Science and Engineering Ahmedabad University - Ahmedabad, Gujarat 2016 Skills Database, Jdbc, Mysql, Relational database, Sql, Stored procedures, Application server, C++, Git, Javascript, Bootstrap, Json, Software development, Xml, Eclipse, J2ee, Java, Spring, Jboss, jquery Certifications/Licenses Oracle Certified Professional, Java SE 6 Programmer March 2017 to Present Additional Information Software Skills:  • Programming Language - Java, J2EE, Servlet, JDBC, C, C++, XML  • Webservices - HTML5, CSS3, JSP, JSF, JavaScript, RESTful webservices  • Database - MySQL, SQL  • Web/Application Server - Apache Tomcat, JBoss, Liferay Portal  • Development IDE's -Eclipse, NetBeans  • Build Tools - ANT  • Version Control - GIT, GITHub  • Framework - Spring, PrimeFaces, Spring MVC  • Reports - Jasper  • Defect Tracking Tools - JIRA  • Operating System - Windows, Linux  • Software Development Methodology - Agile Method and Scrum    Skills & Knowledge:  • Good knowledge of JAVA and OOPs concepts.  • Intermediate level of proficiency with the MS office suite like MS Word, MS Excel, MS Power-Point, MS Outlook.  • Ability to write and execute queries against a Relational Database Management System.  • Good familiarity with tools like GitHub, JIRA, Slack.  • Having knowledge of JSON, jQuery, Ajax and Bootstrap.  • Able to build RESTful APIs.  • Familiar with Software Development Life Cycle.  • Having basic knowledge of Angular JS.  • Having basic understanding of using the Atlassian productivity suit (JIRA, Confluence, Bigbucket, etc.)  • Hands on experience with building Portlets, Themes and Hooks in Liferay framework.  • Had an experience to create Stored Procedures, Packages, Triggers, Tables and Views.  • Able to design and code till production.  • Self-motivated and having ability to work independently or with a team.