QlikView Consultant QlikView Consultant Senior Software Engineer with 5 years of QlikView Experience, Currently I hold H1B petition and looking for U.S assignment. INDIA ? A dynamic professional with over 5.7 years of IT experience, with diversified fields of Analysis, Design, architecture, Development and Maintenance QlikView 9, 10 & 11 applications and Business Objects. Currently I hold H1B petition and looking for U.S assignment.  ? Domain experience includes Communications, Financial Services, Manufacturing and Healthcare.  ? Expertise in working with diverse business users to understand the requirements/business rules, develop a robust data model that will support the current requirements and future business growth utilizing Agile Methodology.  ? Good experience in performing detailed data analysis/data profiling (i.e. determine the structure, content, and quality of the data through examination of source systems and data samples).  ? Ensured a focus on data quality by developing data standards such as a common business vocabulary, naming conventions, data standards and transformation rules.  ? Expertise in Solution designing and developing Data marts, Data Warehouse using Multi-dimensional models such as Snow Flake and Star Schema.  ? Expertise in designing efficient Data-Models from multiple data sources ( QVD files, Excel, Oracle, binary QVW , inline & txt files etc.,) and QlikView scripting.  ? Developed QlikView Dashboards using Chart Box (Drill Down, Drill up & Cyclic Grouping), List, Input Field, Table Box and Calendar & Date Island.  ? Developed KPI's and Set Analysis applications.  ? Experience in Using QlikView Functions (Date and Time, Keep, Join, Mapping, String & input Fields etc)  ? Developed User Interactive Sheets & Reports as business needs.  ? Writing SQL Scripts to load the relevant Data in QlikView Applications.  ? Developed Set Analysis to provide custom functionality in QlikView Applications.  ? Implemented Security & involved in Deployment of QlikView Applications.  ? Created QVD's & Updated on timely basis as database updates.  ? Developed ETL Scripts while loading the data, resolving loops & ambiguity joins.  ? Testing Applications, reports using review checklists, Data quality for Quality Assurance before delivering to the end users. Performance tuning by analyzing and comparing the turnaround times between SQL and QlikView.  ? Ability to rapidly learn new concepts together with excellent interpersonal skills.  ? Excellent skills in understanding business needs and converting them into technical solutions.  ? Excellent problem solving skills with a strong technical background and result oriented team player with excellent communication and interpersonal skills.  ? Proficient in Microsoft Office (Word, Excel, Outlook, PowerPoint).    Technical Tool Set:    ? Analytics/Reporting: Qlikview10&11, Business Objects  ? Databases: Oracle 9i/10g, SQL Server  ? DBA: Oracle DBA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience QlikView Consultant Accenture Solutions Pvt. Ltd May 2015 to Present ? A dynamic professional with over 5 years of IT experience, with diversified fields of Analysis, Design, architecture, Development and Maintenance QlikView 9, 10 & 11 applications and Business Objects.   ? Domain experience includes Communications, Financial Services, Manufacturing and Healthcare.  ? Expertise in working with diverse business users to understand the requirements/business rules, develop a robust data model that will support the current requirements and future business growth utilizing Agile Methodology.  ? Good experience in performing detailed data analysis/data profiling (i.e. determine the structure, content, and quality of the data through examination of source systems and data samples).  ? Ensured a focus on data quality by developing data standards such as a common business vocabulary, naming conventions, data standards and transformation rules.  ? Expertise in Solution designing and developing Data marts, Data Warehouse using Multi-dimensional models such as Snow Flake and Star Schema.  ? Expertise in designing efficient Data-Models from multiple data sources ( QVD files, Excel, Oracle, binary QVW , inline & txt files etc.,) and QlikView scripting.  ? Developed QlikView Dashboards using Chart Box (Drill Down, Drill up & Cyclic Grouping), List, Input Field, Table Box and Calendar & Date Island.   ? Developed KPI's and Set Analysis applications. Report Developer/QlikView Consultant Telstra Corporation Limited March 2014 to Present Environment: Qlikview 11.2, Oracle 9i.    Description:  Telstra Corporation Limited (known as Telstra) is Australia's largest telecommunications and media company which builds and operates telecommunications networks and markets voice, mobile, internet access, pay television and other entertainment products and services.  Telstra has a long history in Australia, originating together with Australia Post as a government department, the Postmaster-General's Department. Telstra is now fully privatised and has been undergoing a change program to become more customer focused under its current CEO, David Thodey. New CEO-elect Andy Penn is expected to increase the focus on growth in international markets when he takes over on 1 May 2015.The federal government's National Broadband Network (NBN) is causing changes to the industry and will see the company progressively sell its copper and HFC networks to NBN Co.  Roles & Responsibilities:    ? Gathering the Project Requirements/Business rules and giving Design Walk through.  ? Identify and reconcile errors in client data to ensure accurate business requirements.  ? Draft/maintain business requirements and align them with functional & technical requirements.  ? preparing Technical Design Document and required documents for the project.  ? Gathered business logic and requirements for design of dashboards and fetched data from .dat files & Microsoft Excel and stored in qvd's.  ? Provided access to the Users on GMT- Group management third party tool.  ? Scheduling the application as per the hourly, daily and Monthly basis in the Qlkview Server.  ? Performance tuning the Qlikview Applications  ? Performing daily activities and Qlikview Server maintainance.  ? Provided training for the users how to use Qlikview applications.  ? Configured Server clustering in the Qlikview Server.    Project: #2: Report Developer Sundaram Finance Ltd November 2013 to Present Environment: Qlikview 11.2, Oracle 9i.    Description:  Sundaram Finance Ltd. incorporated in 1954 has grown today into one of the most trusted financial services groups in India. Today, the activities of the group span savings products like Deposits and Mutual Funds, Car and Commercial Vehicle Finance, Insurance, Home Loans, Software Solutions, Business Process Outsourcing, Tyre Finance, Fleet Cards, Tractor Finance and Mutual Funds R&T. Sundaram Finance has a Nation-wide presence with 572 branches.    Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Gathering the Project Requirements.  ? Gathered business logic and requirements for design of dashboards and fetched data from Oracle Server & Microsoft Excel and stored in qvd's.  ? Done Automation for the Applications and auto mail triggering of reports to the users.  ? Provided several level of security using Section Access.  ? Scheduling the application as per the hourly basis, daily basis and Monthly basis in the Qlkview Server.  ? Provided training for the users how to use Qlikview applications.  ? Apply The Licenses In server For Users to Access Applications.  ? Configured Server clustering and Publisher in the Qlikview Server.    Project: #3: Software Developer ASAP Info Systems Pvt Ltd March 2014 to May 2015 Report Developer Jindal Steel and Power Ltd August 2013 to October 2013 Environment: Qlikview 11.2, Oracle 9i.    Description:  Jindal Steel and Power Limited (JSPL) is one of India's major steel producers with a significant presence in sectors like Mining, Power Generation and Infrastructure.  With an annual turnover of over US$ 3.6 billion, JSPL is a part of the US$ 18 billion diversified O. P. Jindal Group and is consistently tapping new opportunities by increasing production capacity, diversifying investments, and leveraging its core capabilities to venture into new businesses. The company has committed investments exceeding US$ 30 billion in the future and has several business initiatives running simultaneously across continents.  Mr. Naveen Jindal, the youngest son of the legendary Shri. O. P. Jindal spearheads JSPL and its group companies. The company produces economical and efficient steel and power through backward and forward integration.From the widest flat products to a whole range of long products, JSPL today sports a product portfolio that caters to varied needs in the steel market. The company also has the distinction of producing the world's longest 121 metre rails and large size parallel flange beams for the first time in India.    Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Gathering the Project Requirements.  ? Gathered business logic and requirements for design of dashboards and fetched data from SAP, Microsoft Excel and stored in qvd's.  ? Data Modeling/scripting, managing data flow between source and application.  ? Creating/designing Dashboards and Reports.  ? Created QVD's & updated on timely basis as database updates.  ? Managing data gathering, cleansing and maintenance.  ? Provided training for the users how to use Qlikview applications  ? Automated reloading process using windows Schedulers and Implementing the Section Access.    Project: #4: Report Developer Prime Comfort Pvt Ltd - Noida, Uttar Pradesh April 2013 to July 2013 with an annual capacity of 10,000 tons. The plant is equipped with state of the art technology and uses some of the latest equipment such as a Hennecke foaming plant, a 32 Meter loop peeler and many other machines.    Prime Comfort Products Pvt. Ltd has been promoted by Mr. Praduman Patel, who has been in the industry for the last 30 years. With his knowledge and expertise of the foam industry, we have the capability of manufacturing a wide range of PU foams with the highest quality standards.    Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Gathering the Project Requirements.  ? Gathered business logic and requirements for design of dashboards and fetched data from MS Sql Server & Microsoft Excel and stored in qvd's.  ? Used extensive set analysis to analyze data over time, Used MTD, YTD, WTD.  ? Used Calendar Objects to define the date.  ? Created Dashboard's, Reports as per the Client Requirement.  ? Provided several level of security using Section Access.  ? Scheduling the application as per the hourly basis in the Qlkview Server.  ? Provided training for the users how to use Qlikview applications.  ? Apply The Licenses In server For Users to Access Applications Education B.E Anna University Skills Qlikview (6 years), Qliksense (3 years), SQL (1 year), SAP BO (Less than 1 year), Oracle, Unix (2 years) Additional Information ? Operating Systems: UNIX, Windows 2007, Windows 2008 Server