Sr. Java Developer Sr. Java <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Developer - Rockwell Collins Inc Cedar Rapids, IA • Over 8 years' professional work experience in Design, Development, Testing and Maintenance of applications using Java/J2EE Technologies including Spring, Hibernate, Spring boot, Servlets, JSP and Oracle PL/SQL following SDLC and Agile.  • Expertise in JSP, Hibernate, Spring. OOPS and SDLC knowledge from working in projects.  • Used Ant, Maven, XML in professional and academic projects in telecom, airlines and education industry.  • JavaFX, Scene Builder are the platforms used in different projects. Maven, Jenkins Artifactory, Putty, WinSCP are the different tools.  • Solid experience in SDLC following Agile, Waterfall in all projects.  • Experience working in small teams and managed developers in large team.  • Gathered requirements, analyzed feasibility, structured and created work flow for development.  • Experience in Core Java, Multithreading, MVC and Design Patterns. Libraries used include JFree,  • Experience in Webservices, Enterprise Java Beans (EJB), Apache Tomcat, JBOSS, WebLogic and WebSphere.  • IDEs and tools used include Eclipse, IntellijIDEA, Postman. Utilized java 8 features like Functions, Streams and Lambda.  • Used Git, SVN, REST and Linux in all professional projects. Expertise applied knowledge on AWS and Azure.  • Expertise in Linux, Windows and Unix operating systems. Oracle, DB2 and Microsoft SQL databases.  • Followed Agile methodology and Test Driven Development (TDD) in multiple projects. Wrote testcases using Junit 4 framework, assert statement to validate methods.  • Good knowledge in ER and UML. Utilized bug tracking tools such as JIRA, ALM, GDB, Bugzilla.  • Managed and hosted portfolio meetings about Java based technologies with clients.  • Conducted sessions on Java and related technologies to team, provided knowledge transformation and trained candidates. Work Experience Sr. Java Developer Rockwell Collins Inc - Cedar Rapids, IA October 2017 to Present Project Description: Avionics applications are part of flight situational awareness solution, providing integrated 3D visualization, displays and database components. The application facilitates operations for security, manufacturing and crew departments.    Responsibilities:  • Analyzed and designed layers, data flow and connectivity modules for the application as per SDLC methodology.  • Developed application using Core Java, Spring and Hibernate with Model View Controller (MVC) to leverage the architecture.  • Used design patterns to structure different layers of application and J2EE, XML to implement them.  • Hosted in AWS after connecting Neo4J to model backend decision tree for the application.  • Designed pages using JSP and connected database with JDBC.  • Wrote Oracle PL/SQL stored procedures, views and triggers. Designed and implemented table schema as per Entity-Relationship model.  • Involved in performing load, acceptance testing, writing test cases and performing code reviews.  • Interviewed, trained and managed new candidates, hosted sessions of Java/J2EE technologies for team.  • Utilized JavaFX to design interfaces for application.  • Used Test Driven Development method, SVN to version and Followed Agile practices.    Environment: Java 7/8, Spring, Hibernate, MVC, J2EE, XML, Neo4J, JSP, JDBC, JavaFX, Oracle PL/SQL, AWS, Linux, SVN, WebSphere, Agile. Senior Software Engineer - Java V2 Solutions - San Diego, CA February 2016 to September 2017 Project Description:  StarRez applications is used to handle student enrollment, housing and data related to meal plan. It connects with Ellucian banner student, StarRez portal and internal applications    Responsibilities:  • Designed pages, structure for Oracle Database for the application. Used Java, spring, spring boot for development.  • Built functions using Java, python, REST API Web services, XML and Visual basic programming.  • Developed interfaces using JSP, JavaScript and AJAX using Eclipse.  • Used postman to analyze request and response data.  • Implemented components using spring framework and controller classes.  • Utilized data processingAPI to preprocess student detail datasets and applied machine learning, data science methods.  • Developed backend modules using python, stateless session and Message Driven EJB's. Processed streams using Apache Kafka.  • Wrote functions, stored procedures using Oracle PL/SQL and followed Agile.    Environment: Java, JSP, REST API Web services, Angular JS, React, JavaScript, REST API, postman, XML, visual basic programming, Git, Linux. Sr. Java Developer JP Morgan Chase - Denver, CO September 2014 to January 2016 Project Description:  Development and support for Card service applications first watch, first watch intelligence and first assist. The applications used by associates to monitor transactions to follow diligence. Alerts are set that inform about any fraud or un-verified transactions using various check points such as variation in customer  location.    Responsibilities:  • Developed module to manage transaction-based alerts using Java, J2EE, Struts, Spring, Hibernate.  • Involved in designing interfaces that make it feasible to monitor transaction data.  • Used Struts, MVC for the application development UI module.  • Defect logging and resolution of defects using JIRA.  • Extensively used Eclipse for building, developing and integrating application.  • Used Hibernate as Object relational mapping tool for backend operations.  • Structured the project using Maven and followed Agile practices.  • Developed tools to handle products and services, used Java, Hibernate and Maven.  • Applied J2EE design patterns Singleton, Factory, DAO, Front Controller Pattern and Model View Controller.  • Designed pages using JSP to narrow and retrieve workaround or solutions.  • Utilized RESTful webservices, wrote modules to perform requests and handle response data.  • Built backend modules using NodeJS to dedicate to functionality and communication.  • Involved in providing support to resolve critical problems after working on development tasks.  • Used Agile method including weekly sprints, meetings, training sessions and meeting with customers.  • Used Eclipse IDE to work on features and supported U-verse products. Wrote scripts to embed results using SQL and Oracle PL/SQL.    Environment: HTML, Java, JSP, Hibernate, Eclipse, ColdFusion, Struts, MVC, Servlets, Spring MVC, HTML, XML, J2EE, SQL, REST, Ant, Maven.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Struts, Spring, Hibernate, NodeJS and SQL. Jr. Java Developer Amadeus. Organization November 2013 to August 2014 Project Description:  Worked on software that is used to manage flight crew and employee management.    Responsibilities:  • Developed backend modules using Core Java and enhanced adding features.  • Included functions using Core Java, J2EE, SQL, REST, SVN, C++, Linux and Agile.  • Trained and assisted peers working on different flight network applications.  • Used Junit framework to test modules.  • Implemented business objects and business logic using Java.  • Built architecture using UML and packages using Ant and based on WebLogic server.  Environment: Core Java, JSP, Servlets, Spring MVC, HTML, XML, J2EE, SQL, REST, SVN, C++, Linux, JBoss, Log4j, Eclipse. Developer - Java AT&T - IN June 2011 to September 2013 Project Description:  Portal used to manage skills information.    Responsibilities:  • Developed portal using Java, JSP, J2EE, Struts, Hibernate, Spring and MySQL.  • Used Java, JFree library, Perl and MySQL. Supported from 3rd tier and worked on new features using Core Java.  • Used Junit, JSP and Servlets to work on pages for the application.  • Performed level 3 support for critical problems from analyzing, researching, debugging and writing new modules to resolve issue as needed. Forwarded them to test, deploy on non-live systems before receiving approval to check-in code.  • Performed unit, integration testing and was deployed using functional testing environments.  • Completed Java certification from this role and hosted sessions for team on different Core Java technologies.  • Designed schema for MySQL database that the application connects, wrote stored procedures and used SQL and PL/SQL to create and load new tables, triggers and functions.    Environment: Java, JFree library, JSP, EJB 2, XML, HTML, CSS, IBM AIX, Tomcat, WinSCP, Perl and MySQL. Education Bachelor's Skills Eclipse, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Java technologies, Javafx, Spring, Jsp, Struts, Jdbc, Mysql, Oracle, Oracle 10g, Pl/sql, Sql, Api, Git, Html, Perl, Php Additional Information Key Skills:    Java Technologies Java, J2EE, Hibernate, JSP, Spring, MVC, JDBC, Web Services, PL/SQL  Frameworks Struts, Spring, Spring Boot, Microservices,  Databases MySQL, Oracle 10g, Oracle 12c  Web Technologies JSP, HTML, PHP  Tools Eclipse, IntellijIDEA, Putty, SQL Developer, SOAP,  Versioning systems Git, SVN  Operating Systems Linux, Unix, Windows  Methodology Agile, SCRUM  Additional Technologies SQL, XML, Perl, AWS, REST API Web Services  Libraries and Software JavaFX, JFree, Azure, GCP