Waiter/Server Waiter/Server Cutler Bay, FL Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Waiter/Server Old Lisbon Restaurant - Miami, FL March 2015 to August 2017 • Greet and escort customers to their tables  • Present menu and provide detailed information when asked (e.g. about portions, ingredients or potential food allergies)  • Prepare tables by setting up linens, silverware and glasses  • Inform customers about the day’s specials  • Offer menu recommendations upon request  • Up-sell additional products when appropriate  • Take accurate food and drinks orders, using a POS ordering software,order slips or by memorization  • Check customers’ IDs to ensure they meet minimum age requirements for consumption of alcoholic beverages  • Communicate order details to the Kitchen Staff  • Serve food and drink orders  • Check dishes and kitchenware for cleanliness and presentation and report any problems  • Arrange table settings and maintain a tidy dining area  • Deliver checks and collect bill payments  • Carry dirty plates, glasses and silverware to kitchen for cleaning  • Meet with restaurant staff to review daily specials, changes on the menu and service specifications for reservations (e.g. parties)  • Follow all relevant health department regulations  • Provide excellent customer service to guests Tech Sale Associate Staples - Miami, FL October 2015 to January 2016 • Installed software, modified and repaided hardware and resolved technical issues.  • Managed call flow and responded to technical support needs of costumers.  • Resolved problems with malfunctioning products.  • Processes accurate and efficient sale and return transactions  • Understands and utilizes basic selling skills to properly engage and present solutions to our customers  • Creates an inviting environment for customers by maintaining a neat and clean store  • Perform front end responsibilities such as cashier, returns, and reserve online pick up in store with no impact to the customer experience  • Adheres to all company policies procedures & safety standards  • Able to multitask on assorted merchandising and sales responsibilities  • Performs other related duties as assigned Internship Software Developers National Center For Scientific Research - Havana September 2011 to January 2014 Develop and Design a software to automate the management of three diferent databases:  • Purchase Order management.  • Management of products of slow movement that are in the warehouse of the entity.  • Management of Work Orders issued by the Department of General Maintenance.  Continues optimization Of previously written code.  Develop database objects to meet the busines requirements.  Drafted technical documents, including whitepapers.  Coordinate with QA tester for end - to - end unit testing and post - production testing. Software Developer DATYS - Havana October 2008 to June 2011 • Worked in a teamwork environments in Technology Solutions ArcGis.  • Analysis, design, implementing and resting of computer solutions to solve complex problems. Writing documents for developed modules.  • Integrate modules into a Group of geographic information system Gis platform.  • Use of the ArcGis Runtime SDK for .Net as part of the development.  • Provide technical support to users.  • Design and Implementing a platform (Desktop applications) to test the native mapping apps and share source code across Windows.  • Integrate a range of mapping and Gis capabilities online or offline, including 2D and 3D data visualization, web, editing, geocoding, routing and spatial analysis. Education Bachelor's in Computer science Institute Polytechnic Jose Antonio Echeverria(Cujae), University in Havana - Cuba August 2006 to June 2011 Skills Programming languages, Technologies and Libraries: C#,C++,HTML 5, CSS 3, ASP.NET (5 years), General Office Skills, Database Development SQL Serve 2012, MySQL, Oracle (5 years), Programming IDEs: Microsoft Visual studio 2010, Borland C++ builder, Methodologies and Modeling Techniques: UML, RUP (5 years), Case and Version Control: Magic Draw, Visual Paradigm (5 years), Programming framework: .Net framework (5 years)