Full Stack Software Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Software Developer - Cisco San Jose, CA Work Experience Full Stack Software Developer Cisco - San Jose, CA July 2017 to Present • Designed and Implemented Functional Testing Infra using Nose test.  • Sole responsible for end to end EndPoints assurance in Cisco ACI (Cisco's SDN offering for data center and cloud networks) which includes any new feature or bugs pertaining to EndPoints.  • Normalized all the smart events pertaining to EndPoints in Cisco ACI. End to end work involved writing adapters for the events persisting to MongoDB, writing UI, Unit Testing and Integration Testing.  • Designed and Implemented Integration Testing Infra for Candid which works on JSON/CSV comparison.  • Implemented more than 15 new smart events which is the result of analysis of data collected from Cisco ACI data center. Software Development Co-op Alcatel-Lucent (Nokia), Raleigh - Raleigh, NC May 2016 to May 2017 Designed and Developed an Application as JAVA OSGI component in OpenDaylight for a network topology to:  Configure flows dynamically in the switches in the network for Layer 2 forwarding for a better performance of the data plane in a network topology.  Implement Network Function Virtualization (NFV) in the network for dynamic insertion of user-defined Firewall policy. Leverage  OpenFlow for Voice, Audio and Data traffic classification to dynamically apply user-defined QoS based on VLAN tags.  • Built a project in OpenDaylight to configure the Southbound network devices such as OLTs and ONTs (used ConfD to make the device NETCONF and Yang complaint) via RestClient using RESTCONF as northbound protocol. Education Masters in Computer Networking in Computer Networking North Carolina State University August 2015 to May 2017 Bachelors in Electrical and Electronics Engineering in Software Engineering National Institute of Technology August 2008 to May 2012 Skills Git (2 years), JAVA (2 years), Maven (Less than 1 year), MongoDB (1 year), Python (3 years), Software Development (3 years) Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/pawashahuja