Software Developer II <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> II Software Developer 2 Hillsborough, NC • Around 7 years of overall development experience with 2 years with React JS/ Native Development, full stack development and 7 years as automation/ software developer.  • Expertise in React JS framework to develop the web application front end.  • Experienced in React JS/ React Native and working with React-redux architecture.  • Expertise in design, architecture and support of automation test frameworks from scratch using Selenium IDE, Selenium Grid, Selenium RC, Protractor, Cucumber , Maven, Node JS, Jenkins, Cucumber, Gherkin, SauceLabs, Appium, Selenium WebDriver (programming languages used: node.js/Javascript, Java, ruby), Java/JUnit, TypeScript  • Automation test lead experience of around 3 years with both onshore and offshore  • Experience in using React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, plus Redux, Animations and Flux concept.  • Good Experience in React.js for creating interactive UI's using One-way data flow, Virtual DOM, JSX, React Native concepts.  • Familiar with creating Custom Reusable React Components Library.  • Expertise in using Angular JS Directives, Controllers, Filters, Services, Templates, Events and Injectors.  • Experienced in working with Node.JS and NPM modules like http-server, Marathon, inquirer, path, mongo DB, Micro Services, Request, Elastic Search, express, luck, spark and templating engines.  • Experience in Node environment using Node.js, NPM, Grunt, Gulp, Groovy Bow  • More than 6 years of automation development experience with Java as programming language and Javascript.  • Involved in working with Java, AWS, SQL, UNIX, Docker Process models worked on: agile, waterfall  • Strong interpersonal skills, ability to interact with individuals at all levels, excellent communication, flexibility to work and presentation skills.  • Created and supported Develop, implement and test automation teams and infrastructure  • Setup and integrated automation frameworks with continuous integration server  and publish daily regression results created BDD cucumber framework to analyze the user-story and writing acceptance criteria  • Expertise in Configuration/Release/Build Management.  • Automation Testing (TDD, BDD, JBehave, Selenium Web Driver, XP best practices, Continuous Integration environments)  • Automated Build/Deployment Master using (Maven, Ant, Jenkins/Hudson, Nexus, SVN etc.) with extensive experience in deploying systems  • Experience in driving continuous integration in distributed environment in order to bridge communication gap between Business and Technology  • Usage of Continuous build integration tools like Jenkins  • Conduct code reviews  • Manage daily reviews of automated test run results  • Consult with business analysts and management about testing strategies  • Identify future automated testing needs, scope, plan and supervise their creation  • Create web UI tests using cucumber, capybara, gherkin, Selenium WebDriver (tests written in ruby)  • Strong in Web automation with Ruby /Cucumber /Watir, Jenkins and GIT  • Extensive experience with protractor as an end-to-end testing framework for AngularJS applications and works as a solution integrator - combining powerful tools and technologies such as NodeJS, Protractor, Jasmine, Cucumber, chai and Mocha.  • Worked with development team to create an automated DevOps lifecycle management pipeline using principles of Continuous Integration/Continuous Delivery.  • Expert in AngularJS concepts which help in using protractor cucumber based customized frameworks implementations  • Used custom frameworks Protractor on Jasmine/ Cucumber-framework, thus allowing you to write both unit and functional tests on Jasmine.  • Work with engineering services team to run tests in continuous integration environment (Jenkins) and report on results  • Analyzed continuous integration needs, and developed and implemented test tagging strategy so that different tests were run at appropriate times  • Coordinate with customer support to prioritize and process customer bug issues through the development process Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Developer II Oracle March 2019 to Present Software Development Engineer Avalara November 2017 to March 2019 ·        Help create new mobile applications for iOS and Android using latest best practices  ·        Help maintain existing mobile applications by investigating bugs and implementing fixes  ·         Participate in code review to help everyone grow  ·        Involve in discussion, planning and brainstorming with teammates and stakeholder to achieve project goals.  ·        Worked with team for implementation of CI (Continuous Integration) and CD (Continuous Deployment) methodologies with Jenkins.  ·        Used Behavior Driven Development Cucumber to reveal and document, as well as drive development of behavior in a large legacy code base (Java, JS)  ·        Integrated integrating Automation scripts (Selenium WebDriver API/ JAVA) on Continuous Integration tools Hudson/Jenkins for running Scripts.   ·        Design, develop and test HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, jQuery and React.JS that meets accessibility and web browser standards for website.  ·        Designed CSS templates for use in all pages on the website working with CSS Background, positioning, text, border, margin, padding, and table.  ·        Applied optimization techniques to reduce page size and load times to enhance user experience using sprites.  ·        Developed user interface by using the React JS, Flux for SPA development.   ·        Implemented react JS code to handle cross browser compatibility issues in Mozella, IE 7, 8, 9, Safari and FF.  ·        Used React-Router to turn application into Single Page Application  ·        Worked in using React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations and Flux concept.  ·        Used Web services RESTful for transmission of large blocks of JSON.  ·        Used React flux to polish the data and for single directional flow.  ·        Used Object Oriented Programming concepts to develop UI components that could be reused across the Web Application. Software Engineer( Automation Lead) Fidelity Investments November 2015 to November 2017 ·        Selenium WebDriver- and Appium-based tests using the webdriver.io node.js with Javascript bindings  ·        Integrated services like GitHub, AWS CodePipeline, Jenkins and AWS Elastic Beanstalk to create a deployment pipeline.  ·        Here GitHub is used for source code repository, Jenkins is used for continuous integration and continuous delivery and AWS CodePipeline which automates release workflow and also gives visual representation of state of each release.  ·        BDD/Cucumber approach framework setups from scratch which allows all QA engineers in team to write new automated test features  ·        Reusable steps that allow the test creator to specify attributes for identifying UI objects  ·        To verify layout and styling, screenshots feature was implemented on failure and compare them to archived baseline screenshots.  ·        Our product code is deployed as web applications and hybrid mobile applications. The same automated tests can be run against web and mobile applications.  ·        Led Jenkins continuous integration server installation and configuration for all GIT Repositories.  ·        Automated application packaging and deployments.  ·        Requirements understanding, creation of test plan and test strategy  ·        Creation of test scenarios and review with project stakeholders  ·        Creation of test cases for verification of functionality and user experience.  ·        Mapping test cases to requirement traceability matrix Software Engineer Aon Hewitt February 2011 to September 2014 Software Engineer TechVista Consulting Pvt. Ltd July 2010 to February 2011 Education Bachelor of Engineering in Information Technology Maharishi Dayanand University Skills Java, Javascript (6 years), SQL (7 years), Protractor (2 years), Selenium (5 years), Jenkins (4 years), Jest (Less than 1 year), Enzyme (1 year), C, Python (1 year), Java (5 years), SQL (7 years), Mongo (2 years), React (2 years), C#, AWS, HTML 5, Git, CSS, Android, MySQL, jQuery, Linux, Software Development, Java J2Ee