Sr. Salesforce/Lightening Developer Sr. Salesforce/Lightening <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Salesforce/Lightening Developer - UBS Weehawken, NJ • Over 8+ years of IT experience across various domains and over 7 years of experience in Salesforce.com CRM platform using administration,  development, integration, deployment, communities, lightning component development.  • Involved in various stages of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including requirement gathering, analysis & architectural design using Agile, Waterfall and hybrid methodologies.  • Good knowledge and experience in Sales cloud, Service cloud, Marketing cloud and Analytics cloud.  • Worked with Data loader for loading the attachments into salesforce.com, related to objects like Accounts, Contacts, Opportunities, and Activities  • Good understanding of salesforce architecture with classic and lightning user interface and experience with sales cloud, service cloud, marketing cloud, and community cloud  • Configured and Maintain User Profiles, Sharing Rules, Role Hierarchy, Security, Password Policies, Object Level Security and Record Level Security. Experience in working with Salesforce.com sandbox Integration and production environments  • Proficient knowledge on Apex development in creating Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Custom Fields, Triggers, Bulk Triggers, Apex Classes, Master-Detail relationships, Validation rules, Workflows, Standard Controllers, Custom Controllers and Controller Extensions, Visualforce pages, Test Classes.  • Extensive knowledge on salesforce Setup menu, Configuration, Custom Application Development, Administration, Data Migration and Deployment of applications to Force.com platform  • Extensively exposed to creating Objects, Fields, Page Layouts, Record Types, Workflows, Approval Processes, Escalation Rules, Assignment Rules, Validation Rules, Email Services, Apex Controller classes, Batch processes, Schedulable classes, Triggers, Test classes, Data Migration activities, WSDL, Roles, Profiles and other standard functionalities  • Extensively worked on Jenkins by installing, configuring and maintaining for continuous integration (CI) and for End to End automation for all build and deployments  • Outstanding skills in performing various administrative tasks includes Custom Objects, Custom Fields, Roles, Profiles, Page Layouts, Workflows & Approvals, Workflow Triggers, Validation Rules, Custom Tabs, Custom Reports, Report Folders, Report Extractions to various formats, Design of Visualforce Pages, Snapshots, Dashboards, Salesforce lightning Process builder and Email generation according to application requirements.  • Experience in Data Mapping, Cleansing, Data Export and Imports, Application Support, Performance Tuning, Security Administration, Maintenance, and User Security Management.  • Good knowledge in SFDC technology and salesforce lightning design technology which includes Apex Language, Lightning design System, Visual Force pages, Java, Apex trigger, modern enterprise apps using Lightning App Builder and Lightning Components.  • Outstanding knowledge in Object Oriented Programming Concepts and Programming in Apex and Java.  • Worked on different CRM modules like sales cloud, and service cloud; working knowledge on Apttus CPQ, Apttus CLM, ERP applications  • Experience in deployment from Sandbox to Production using deployment tools like Force.com IDE, Force.com migration tool and Change Sets.  • Used Salesforce Lightning Design System (SLDS) for developing Lightning Components, Actions, Event and Server-Side Controller.  • Creating Lightning Components and used Salesforce SLDS to convert existing Visualforce pages to lightning components.  • Created Apex methods for the lightning controller and helper methods to perform DML operations on the case records.  • Worked on building and embed Lightning Components in Visual Force Page by using new Lightning Out feature by event-driven programming.  • Was involved in building Lightning Component using the aura framework.  • Good experience in developing salesforce Lightning Apps, Components, Controllers and Events.  • Extraordinary experience on Debug Apex.  • Experience in working with Eclipse IDE Force.com, ANT migration tool Plug-in environments.  • Experience with the Salesforce API (REST/SOAP/Metadata, Heroku and Salesforce Wave Analytics.  • Working as a part of UAT team to test the APTTUS implementation Project before going live. Executed Wave Analytics, created datasets, dashboards and apps for Opportunity, Accounts and Cases.  • Responsible for the data maintenance and data integrity within the Force.com platform.  • Soft skills love to learn and share my insights by building my own role and know when things to get done.  • Hands on experience in effectively managing all the organization security related issues such as Session Management, Login History, Login Access Polices, Reset Passwords, Grant Account Login Access, Reset Security Token and View Setup Audit History.  • Strong organizational, verbal, written communicational, interpersonal skills, problem-solving skills and capable of new technologies and successfully apply them in the projects and operations Work Experience Sr. Salesforce/Lightening Developer UBS - Weehawken, NJ September 2017 to Present RESPONSIBILITIES:  • Involved in migrating from classic to lightening by gathering all the required configurations and customizations as per business requirements by leading the roles of admin and lightening developer.  • Created custom object, custom fields in lightening experience. Also, involved in creating Custom Objects, Custom Settings, Custom Labels, Validation rules, Record types, Custom Tabs, Workflow rule and approval process including Field updates and email alerts.  • Implemented pick lists, dependent pick lists, lookups, master detail relationships, validation and formula fields to the custom objects.  • Used Force.com toolkit including Apex Classes, Apex Triggers and Visualforce pages to develop custom business logic.  • Worked on Batch Apex, Schedule Classes, Visualforce pages and integrated with external source by developing Apex Web Services.  • Used SOQL and SOSL statements within Governor Limits for data manipulation needs of the application using platform database objects.  • Worked on CRM modules like sales cloud, service cloud with functionalities like Opportunity Management and Case Management. Developed lightning pages and displayed it in community builder.  • Developed Lightning Component Framework and built Lightning component using aura framework.  • Enabled Aura Framework, by adding Aura Attributes and Aura Handlers for Events to focus on Logic and Interactions in Lightning Applications.  • Worked with Force.com IDE to develop Custom Application in both Sales and Service Cloud Modules.  • Implemented the requirements on Salesforce.com platform and Force.com IDE Plug-in using Eclipse.  • Worked on Force.com IDE for creating, modifying, testing, and deploying Force.com Applications.  • Implemented DML activities for Inserting and Updating records.  • Was responsible for the data maintenance and data integrity within the Force.com platform.  • Performed Sales Cloud configurations and used its features such as Lead Management, Email integration, Sales Forecasting, and Wave Analytics.  • Implemented Wave Analytics, created datasets, dashboards and apps for Opportunity, Accounts and Cases.  • Created and used Email templates in HTML and Visual force. Also, designed various web pages in visual force for capturing various customer enquiries.  • Created many Email Templates and Mail Merge Templates and was involved in doing the mail merge for different standard and custom objects in Lightning experience.  • Knowledge in configuring product and pricing setup using CPQ/Product consoles formatted and migrated the user data into Lightning Experience.  • Worked on customization of visual force to have lightening experience for desktop and mobile applications.    • Environment: Salesforce.com platform, wave analytics, Apex Language, CRM, Apttus  CPQ, Apttus CLM, Visual Force, Pages, Data Loader, Workflow & Approvals, Email Services, Security Controls, Sandbox Data loader, Eclipse IDE, Lightning, Informatica. Salesforce Administrator / Developer AOPC - Mechanicsburg, PA March 2016 to August 2017 RESPONSIBILITIES:  • Involved in various activities of the project, like information gathering, analyzing the information, and documenting the functional and non-functional requirements.  • Designed, and developed the Custom objects, Record Types, Report Types, Formula fields, Page layouts, workflow rules, tasks, Field Updates, emails and alerts to track customer related tasks and activities.  • Created custom objects, Visual pages, triggers, validation rules by using Apex  • Developed and configured various Custom Reports and Report Folders for different user profiles based on the need in the organization.  • Configured the User permissions based on the organizational hierarchy.  • Performed the role of salesforce Developer in the organization.  • Implemented Web-to-lead to track and solve leads from the company website.  • Created Various Validation Rules & Workflows specific to limited user groups by filtering out through their Profiles while working on Service Cloud.  • Worked on Salesforce CPQ (Steel brick) pricing using list, cost/markup, percent total, block, price rules, and calculator plugins, system and user discounts and filter rule.  • Worked on the design and installation of an application on iPad using customized CPQ.  • Hands on experience with Apttus CPQ for generating quotes, creating product catalogue and price.  • Implemented escalation rules, automatic case generation and their escalation to call center representative, and generated email alerts for quick issue resolution.  • Worked on Sales Cloud and Service Cloud with functionalities like Opportunity Management and Case Management  • Experience with Service Cloud including: Service Console, Customer Portal, Case Feed, Knowledge  • Involved in querying salesforce tables using SOQL & SOSL queries using Force.com Explorer.  • Customized Applications, Page Layouts, Lookup Fields, Standard Related Lists, Tabs, and defined dependent Pick Lists.  • Customized Dashboards to track project status and performance of business centers.  • Created and managed User Roles, Profiles, Permissions, and Role Hierarchies, Public Groups, Security Controls, and Shared Settings.  • Used Data Loader for insert, update, upsert, and bulk import or export of data from Salesforce Objects. Used it to read, extract and load data from comma separated value (CSV) files.  • Designed, and developed the Custom objects, validation rules, Page layouts, Custom tabs, Components, Visual Force Pages to suit to the needs of the application.  • Responsible for various salesforce.com standard objects like Campaigns, Leads, Accounts, Contacts, Opportunity, Forecast, Cases, Reports and Dashboards.  • Created different workflow rules and Approvals for various campaign processes  • Created many Email Templates and Mail Merge Templates and was involved in doing the Mail Merge for different standard and custom objects.  • Integrated with PeopleSoft at the back end with salesforce as User Interface and it is a bi-directional integration using Informatica on demand.  • Environment: Salesforce.com Platform, Apex Language, Visual Force (Pages, Component & Controllers), Data Loader, Workflow & Approvals, Email Services, Sales Cloud, Service Cloud, SOA, WSDL, Community Cloud, CPQ, CLM, Sandbox Data loading, Eclipse IDE, Reports & Dashboards, Security Controls, Relationships, Web Services, Profiles, S-Controls Salesforce Developer Anthem - Richmond, VA June 2014 to February 2016 RESPONSIBILITIES:  • Worked closely with sales team and business analysts and performed detailed analysis of business and user requirements, designed the solution by customizing various standard objects of SalesForce.com (SFDC)  • Created email templates and inbound emails using Visual Force for clients and customers.  • Implemented Pick lists, Dependent Pick lists, lookups, Master detail relationships, validation and formula fields to the custom objects.  • Configured Single Sign-On (SSO) for various sales force instances with Active Directory.  • Worked on Apex triggers, Apex classes and Visualforce pages.  • Used Apex Data Loader to migrate data such as accounts, campaigns from legacy system ACT.  • Developing and customizing various Visualforce pages, Visualforce components, Apex triggers to include extra functionality.  • Managed campaign members and worked with standard and custom objects.  • Resolving issues related to the Deployment-Code coverage issues by writing test classes.  • Designed and deployed Custom tabs, validation rules, Approval Processes and Auto-Response for automating business logic.  • Involved in querying salesforce tables using SOQL & SOSL queries using Force.com Explorer.  • Worked extensively in customization of Service Cloud Console by embedding Visualforce pages in custom console components, highlight panel and interaction log.  • Experience in handling administration, customization, configuration, mapping, data migration and integration of Salesforce.com applications.  • Designed and deployed the Custom objects, Custom tabs, Entity-Relationship data model, validation rules, Auto-Response Rules, Page layouts, Components, Visual Force Pages for automating business logic.  • Worked with sales cloud modules such as Web-to-lead, Auto-response rules etc. on standard objects like Account, contact, lead, campaigns.  • Environment: Saleforce.com CRM, Force.com platform, Apex Triggers, Chatter, Controllers, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Email Services, Sales Cloud & Service Cloud, HTML, Java Script, Apex Language, SQL, VISUAL FORCE, APEX Triggers, SOQL & SOAP, Force.com IDE, SOAP API, REST API, Windows. Salesforce Developer/Admin FIS Global - Lombard, IL July 2012 to May 2014 RESPONSIBILITIES:  • Involved in Salesforce.com Application Setup activities and customized apps to match functional needs.  • Worked on various salesforce.com standard objects like Accounts, Contacts, Leads, Campaigns, Reports and Opportunities.  • Designed, Implemented and deployed Custom objects, Page layouts, Custom tabs, Components and SControl to suit to application needs.  • Created Custom Objects and defined lookup and master-detail relationships on objects and created junction objects to establish many-to- many relationship among objects.  • Created various profiles and configured permissions based on organizational hierarchy requirements.  • Created email templates in HTML and inbound emails using Visual force for the clients and customers.  • Developed workflow rules and defined related tasks, time triggered tasks, email alerts, field updates, Validation rules and Customizations to implement business logic.  • Implemented Apex Classes & Triggers and linked them to manage workflows implemented in system.  • Implemented various Custom Reports and deployed them for different business user levels.  • Provided training to internal business users to use application and develop their own custom reports.  • Experience in using the Workbench tool for SOQL queries, SOSL and the REST Explorer.  • Used sandbox for testing and migrated code to deployment instance after testing.  • Supported data migration activities for migrating data from various business centers and business users with the support of Saleforce.com.  • ENVIRONMENT:  Saleforce.com CRM, Force.com stage, Apex Classes, SOQL, SQL, Visual Force Pages, Controllers, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Email Services, Workflow and Approvals, Reports, Security Controls, HTML. Salesforce Admin Apollo Health Care, Location - Farmington, MO September 2011 to June 2012 • Interacted with various business user groups for gathering the requirements for Salesforce.  • Implemented and documented the Business and Software Requirements.  • Involved in Salesforce.com Application Setup activities and customized the apps to match the functional needs.  • Created detailed data mapping document for integrating various systems with Salesforce.com.  • Worked as Salesforce admin support governing user account creation, personal information setup, password reset, Roles & Profile creation, user group creation, updating company profile, Network access setup.  • Worked on various administrative tasks includes Custom Objects, Custom Fields, Roles, Profiles, Page Layouts, Workflows & Approvals, Workflow Triggers, Validation Rules, Custom Tabs, Custom Reports, Report Folders, Report Extractions to various formats, Design of Visualforce Pages, Snapshots, and Dashboards.  • Worked with various salesforce.com objects like Accounts, Contacts, Leads, Campaigns, Reports and Dashboards and Reports.  • Created and managed User Roles, Profiles, and Role Hierarchies, Public Groups, Security Controls and Shared Settings.  • Designed and developed Application on Force.com Platform in Salesforce.com.  • Involved in customizing custom objects, tabs, fields, page layout as per the business need.  • Integrated Email with Salesforce.com for mass E-mail management and designed various custom E-mail templates.  • Customized Applications, Page Layouts, Lookup Fields, Standard Related Lists, Tabs, and defined dependent Pick Lists.  • Created page layouts, search layouts to organize fields, custom links, related lists, and other components on a record detail and edit pages.  • Developed and configured Dashboards, Reports and Report Folders for different user profiles based on the need in the organization.  • Involved in development of Time-based Workflow Rules, Triggers, Validation Rules, and other customizations with Salesforce.com.  • Used Data Loader for insert, update, upset and bulk import or export of data from Salesforce Objects.  • Deployed Salesforce components using Inbound and Outbound change sets for every sprint release.  • Created unit test cases and coordinated change requests to drive the business requirements during Integration and Testing stages.  • Participated in the training sessions provided by the Salesforce team.  • Worked on lookup and master-detail relationships among the objects. Also created junction objects to establish connectivity among objects in data model.  • Created Tabular, Summary, Matrix and Joined Reports using standard and custom Report Types.  • Used the sandbox for testing and migrated the code to the deployment instance after testing.  • Develop Visual force pages, Visual Force Custom Controller Components, Advanced Search functionality, Custom Objects, Tabs, Tags and Components.  • Proficient in using Eclipse based Salesforce.com IDE to develop and deploy into production.  • Having good experience with custom settings to develop the auto search functionality in salesforce.com.  • Environment: Salesforce.com Platform, Sales cloud, Service cloud, Apex language, Apex Custom Controllers, Visual force pages, Data Loader, HTML, JavaScript, Workflows, Software Engineer Aetna - Hartford, CT May 2010 to August 2011 RESPONSIBILITIES:  • Analyzing the user requirements for various modules.  • Designing Applets, deploying and testing them in WebSphere Application Server.  • Used stateless session beans.  • Configuring JDBC connection pooling to access the oracle database.  • Writing many SQL procedures and SQL queries.  • Building and deployment of EAR and JAR files on test, stage and production systems in Web Sphere Application Server.  • Designing the UML diagrams (Sequence diagrams and class diagrams).  • Created database objects like tables, views etc.  • Regression testing, evaluating the response times, and resolving the connection pooling issues.  • Performed Performance and Stress testing.  • Environment: Java, JSP, Servlets, JDBC, JavaScript, Applets, Servlets, Oracle 8i, Tomcat5.0, XML, Sun Solaris, Eclipse IDE, VSS. Skills Force.com, Salesforce.com, Apex, Ajax, Css Links http://Salesforce.com