Sr. C/C++ Developer Sr. C/C++ <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. C/C++ Developer - Nelson ? Over 7+ years of experience as software developer in C/C++, Embedded SW Development including thread synchronization multi-threading, OOPs, and TCP/IP Socket Programming with exposure to IoT, Telecom, Automobile.    ? Experience in developing C++11, Visual C++, services using web services architecture, SOAP, WSDL and XML.    ? Knowledge on SQL server BI tools SSIS, SSRS and software design, code optimization, HMC, VIOS networking TCP/IP, DNP3, Modbus, DDS, SNMP, LLDDP, RSTP, operating systems.    ? Good exposure to each of the phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), developing projects from stage of concept to full implementation.    ? Having experience in developing fixed income applications, products and collateral system processing.    ? Extensive experience in Design, Development and Testing of Embedded Software.    ? Well versed with Agile, Scrum and Waterfall methodologies.    ? Experience in developing and creating framework services not only in the case of using but also in the calling framework services and even developed android applications.    ? Strong ability and skills in design, coding, debugging, problem-solving, integration and maintenance.    ? Having hands on experience with some applications like MVVM, MFC, PowerBuilder, Prism and MEF.    ? Good knowledge and have pure experience on CAD software like Catia/PROE etc. along with HOOPS.    ? Configured and developed some services using various Atlassian tools like JIRA, Confluence, perforce, Bamboo etc.    ? Experience in designing and developing webpages using HTML and CSS and working with MVC architecture.    ? Extensive Experience in Multi-Tier Application Development and Knowledge with Design Patterns.    ? Hands on experience with M4/A5 ARM, Ethernet, routing, Bluetooth, SPI, and Zigbee SoC and related embedded processors (iMX5x, iMX6x, I2C, EM35X etc)    ? Passionate about Object Oriented Analysis and HMI Design with rich experience in OO based languages like Visual C++, VC++, Ubuntu, Java, Informix, VC++ and scripting languages like Python.    ? Good working experience with GIT/Github, Ecosystem E0, VMware, SVN Device Driver and Nucleus RTOS.    ? Hands on experience with the derivatives like Futures, Bonds, TBA, CDS, RRP.    ? Experience in Applications using AJAX, Object Oriented (OO) JavaScript, JSON, JSONP and XML.    ? Developed REST Services in Django Python Framework and have developed many unit test cases in Python.    ? Hands on experience on development for - PC UEFI BIOS & Embedded Controller work streams    ? Project Planning, Scheduling, Estimating, Managing, Directing, and working with clients for New and existing accounts for business continuity.    ? Experience using in Python, Shell, Bash, Pearl scripting, Kernel debugging and QT-QNX/QML.    ? Strong knowledge and experience in Oracle 10g/11g database programming using Sybase, AWS, SQL/ORM, PL/SQL, Stored Procedures, MongoDB, POS functions, triggers and other elements.    ? Developing peripheral drivers for ARM Cortex M0 based STM32F0 microcontroller.    ? Experience in Cloud Integration process for configuring multiple application programs to share data in the cloud.    ? Proficient in Test Driven methodology to design, develop & test software modules.    ? Proficient in using static analysis tools and caught many severe bugs before production release.    ? Experience in designing and developing User Interface (UI) applications and professional web applications using HTML 4, HTML5, XHTML, CSS, DBX/KDB, JAVASCRIPT, AJAX, WCF, UAT, JSON, JQuery mobile and Android.    ? Experience of OO design and end-to-end software development. Experience working on Data Structures and implementing mathematical models.    ? Handled late night production issues. Dispatched hot fixes.    ? Ability to be creative and take self-initiatives and execute/ manage multiple projects in parallel during time critical situations. Work Experience Sr. C/C++ Developer Nelson - Tampa, FL September 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Extensively involved in bug fixing, blocker removals and working on story points.  ? Good knowledge of build systems - build integration.  ? Excellent in troubleshooting build issues and analysing the checkin.  ? Used Kustos for Database Activities.  ? Sound knowledge of source repository such as Source Depot Strong written & verbal communication skills.  ? Involved in the project documentation using MS-Office, Visio. Performed various Testing like Unit test and writing test cases.  ? Performing code reviews at regular intervals for the smooth running of application.  ? Work on the Low Level and High-Level Design Documents.  ? Design and develop solutions using C, C++, Multi-Threaded, Shell Scripting.  ? Working extensively with off-shore team and various teams on onsite for development on regular basis.  ? Writing Visual C++ code in MS Visual Studio 2015 Community version.  ? Experience working in SCRUM methodology Proven sense of high accountability and self-drive to take on and see through big challenges.  ? Excellent verbal communications and cross group collaboration skills.  ? Great problem solving skills.    ? Debug the application crash logs Good knowledge of XML, PowerShell, JavaScript Working experience in Iterative Agile Methodologies (SCRUM) and well versed in SDLC ( Software Development Life Cycle) and SCRUM or similar Agile implementation methodologies and with a solid track record of meeting SIT milestones on time. Sr. Embedded C/C++ Developer Harsco Rail - Columbia, SC November 2017 to August 2018 Responsibilities:    ? As a part of a developer, supplied application which is a new UI register screen we made modifications from old register board to a new board. And started to implement a self-checkout service for all the Rite Aid stores.  ? Experience working with POS/ Barcode Scanner/ Guns/ Card Swipe. Maintained and modified legacy POS related application code.  ? Excelled in guiding the work of technical teams. Articulated project goals and scope, translated business needs into technical terms, prepared detailed work breakdown structures (WBS) and instilled shared.  ? Shared the ideas to meet the future market demands for the existing and new products. And, created the open platform discussions within the organizations for ideas sharing and brainstorming.  ? Reviewed codes in Shell Script, Perl, Python, AWK, C/C++, PL/SQL & T-SQL.  ? Created subprograms, procedures and functions, DB triggers, cursors and optimization techniques for T-SQL.  ? Worked on Embedded environment using QT-QNX interfaces.  ? Led the migration of historical data to client; fine-tuned SQL & database, generated reports for management, etc.  ? Designed and developed solutions using C, C++, Multi-Threaded, Shell Scripting.  ? Used PVCS Version Manager as code repository and PVCS Tracker as Defect management system. Using Oracle SQL Developer for Database Activities.  ? Peer reviews of the Design and Source Code (C, C++, and Shell Scripts)  ? Experience with serial communications including RS232, RS485& I2C.  ? Experience working on a wide range of microcontrollers/microprocessors such as x86, ARM, PIC on Embedded devices.  ? Develop and Execute the Module Test Cases on Unit and Integration Testing environments.  ? Support System Testing, Acceptance (UAT) Testing and Production changes. Debugging and Troubleshooting production issues.  ? Responsible for Development/Enhancement, bug fixing as well as Production Support.  ? Involved in writing PL/SQL part depends upon user requirements.  ? Analyzing, designing and implementing change requests for the C/C++.  ? Developed communication protocols such as TCP/IP, SSL/TLS, HTTP for Financial Applications  ? Wrote Shell/Perl/AWK scripts for Production Systems. Used Oracle and Sybase as the backend databases.  ? Provided support for internal business process and responsible for communicating detailed technical information and providing technical assistance to customers, systems, and management and external sources.  ? Provided on Call Support for Critical Production Problems.  ? Coordinating with End Users with version releases.  ? Experience in Continuous Integration, Test Driven Development, Jenkins, PTC Integrity, SVN  ? Involved in customer query resolution and maintenance of the messaging products like MQ series.  ? Responsible for project lifecycle documentation and day to day status reports.  Environment: Solaris, Perl, Shell scripting, Python, Sybase-TSQL, Oracle, MQ series, UNIX, Linux, SQL-Loader, Toad, C++. C/C++ Developer STAG Software Private Limited - Bengaluru, Karnataka January 2015 to November 2016 Responsibilities:  ? Achieved plan and improvement of exceedingly dependable machine match up feature of Cars/joined vehicles utilizing programming language C, Data structure, Algorithm, Object Oriented Programming and Object Oriented Analysis Language C++, STL, Exception Handling, information encryption and decoding in Windows CE platform for 32 bits.  ? Designed and implemented exceptionally effective calculation to ascertain information to send crosswise over radios from car to connected vehicles/gear.  ? Designed and implemented various Graphical User Interface (GUI) controls and options on GS 2xxx series display using JDGUI SUITE.  ? Fulfilled plan and improvement of guide scope include for different associated autos and connected gear to each other.  ? Designed and Implemented TCP/IP communication code to send put away vehicle data, information and records to the cloud to show/store information on Toyota site in view of Vehicle VIN number and vehicle ask for put away information from the cloud when information is required.  ? Improved existing software by analyzing, fixing the defects and enhancing current features based on the requirement.  ? Build and released the code under distributed environment using XoreaxIncrediBuild tool to build code.  ? Synthesized the analog signals from remotely controlled ECU and calibrated the control system using Moto Tune calibration tool.  ? Conducted code reviews according to C++ Coding Standards and Conventions.  ? Experience with serial communications including RS232, RS485, I2C, SPI and I2S.  ? Involved in code check-ins and code-checkout using GitHub repository and performs code reviews at regular intervals.  ? Experience in Model based systems design for hybrid vehicles using MATLAB-Simulink to meet performance and fuel economy criterion.  ? In automotive electronics they are manufacturing vehicle instrument panel clusters and in car entertainment systems. In car entertainment system includes music system, phone, along with personalized vehicle settings, drive modes, climate control settings, steering wheel controls, parking assistance, navigation system, warring messages, etc.  ? The cluster holds vehicle information like the odometer, trip computer, gauges, warnings, telltales, gear position.  ? Automated Quality Check tasks by creating PL/SQL procedures, cursors, functions and dynamic SQL.  ? Implemented code in Python to retrieve and manipulate data. Used Python scripts for maintenance tasks.  ? Experience working on a wide range of microcontrollers/microprocessors such as 8051, 8086, ARM, PIC on Embedded devices.  ? Debugging Using Lauterbach Trace 32 Software.  ? Writing operator manuals, creating technical drawings, PLC programming.  ? Capturing ECU measurement data with Vector Canape software and verifying measurement data under different scenarios simulated from ECU load box.  ? Good Knowledge on AUTOSAR while porting device drivers into Vector AUTOSAR.  ? Involved in detailed strategy planning of porting the required components from UNIX and Linux and vice versa, could foresee the issues and corresponding fixes.  ? Expertise in development of Real Time Operating System (RTOS) with concepts like multithreading and Socket programming, operating system concepts like IPC mechanism and synchronization methods.  ? Implementing new protocols and support for new CAN hardware into Serial Loader and COM components for Multi-flash tool.  Environment: C, C++, OOAD, STL, CAN, VC++ Integrated Development Environment and Debug Tools and Windbg, Windows, Windows CE, Freescale Code Warrior IDE, POSIX Threads, JDGUI SUITE, XoreaxIncrediBuild. Software Developer Kapsol - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2012 to December 2014 Responsibilities:    ? Coding and implementation of routing software for handling customer queries and re-routing to appropriate divisions. The customer's calls are automatically answered and place into a holding the queue until an agent becomes available.  ? Developed tools like LINUX IDE (Eclipse) for C++, C, UNIX Shell Scripting, Clear Case, Clear quest, QNX, Eclipse, VNC Viewer, XML Parsing etc.  ? Involved in designing and developing the functionality and features using C++.  ? Involved in the code and requirement reviews of work products developed by team members.  ? Data base Enhancements for new customers and departments/divisions.  ? Writing stored procedures in SQL Server and integrated into the application to access the customer's calls, department's data from databases and store the customer's calls, department's data into database.  ? Preparation of Unit test cases and execution of test cases.  ? Porting of application from Windows to Linux.  ? Developed and executed User Acceptance Testing portion of test plan.  ? Worked on creating various documents that include Use Cases, Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams and Activity Diagrams.  ? Developed, coded, tested, debugged and deployed webservices, MQ for the input and output forms on the webservices.  ? Review of design document, code and test case documents.  Environment: C, C++, STL, QT Frame work, CVS, OOPS, DBX, Linux, GCC Compiler and Perl Scripting, WinDbg, SQL Server 2005, Windows Services, Perl Scripting, Boost C++ Library. Education Bachelor's in Information Technology Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University M.Tech in computer science Engineering Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University Master's in Information Assurance Wilmington University Skills C++ (6 years), LINUX (5 years), SQL (5 years), UNIX (5 years), DATABASES (3 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:    Programming Languages & Scripts C, C++, Visual C++, Javscript, Java    Operating Systems Sun Solaris, IBM AIX, POS, Linux, Unix, Ubuntu, Windows7/10.  Version Control GIT/github, SVN, CVS  Protocols TCP/IP, UDP, CAN, Modbus, RSTP, HTTP, KWP2000, TBA, CDS, RRP LIN, GMLAN, KWP  Databases Oracle, MFC, Microsoft SQL Server/ORM, MongoDB, AWS, DB2,  Libraries & Frameworks  STL, IPC, multithreading, QT/QML, sockets, heap allocators, signals/event handling, SOAP webservices, HMI, Futures, Bonds, Software Design OOP/OOD, Design Patterns, Google Test,    Build Makefile, CMake, bazel, Jenkins, cppCheck,  Tools emacs, eclipse, UML tools, MS-Office, DBX/KDB, splunk, Jira, Confluence, perforce, Bamboo,  Simulation Tools Verifix, Labview, Cadence, RTOS, Pspice, Hspice, VMware, Synopsys.