Software Analyst <span class="hl">Software</span> Analyst Holt, MI Versatile Software Developer with experience designing, developing, and maintaining  environments, deployments, and improvements throughout the software development lifecycle.  Communicated clearly with members from other teams located all around the world to ensure  support resolutions for all reported bugs, defects, or issues. Quick to learn new technology or  methodology necessary to create and maintain improvements to best suit client needs now and  to be built upon for the future implementation of new solutions. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Analyst International Business Machines Client Innovation Center Lansing January 2013 to July 2018 Release Team DevOps  UrbanCode Deploy, Rational Team Concert, Maximo Asset Management    ? Designing, implementing and executing automated deployment of application code with UrbanCode Deploy    ? Scripting Bash for service management of environments for before and after deployment with UrbanCode Deploy    ? Quickly learning code logic and directed modifications for changes to DBII backup processes  with Notepad++    ? Quickly learning monitoring design and functionality before successfully gaining client  approval for implementation with Nagios    ? Earned two certifications for implementing, accessing, and expanding solutions with Nagios    ? Learning and presenting an introduction to Ant Script to coworkers with Microsoft Powerpoint    ? Designing and implementing form elements and scripting the queries and parameters for the elements with Maximo Asset Management    ? Verifying data values for queries and parameters for populating form elements with results    ? Scripting SQL queries for Maximo Asset Management system update    ? Managing ticket queues to drastically reduce the number of unresolved issues in triage    ? Assisting users in managing credentials and using proper channels for requesting access Software Analyst, Web Developer Ruralogic, Incorporated (Defunct) October 2011 to October 2012 Designing and developing a web application for tracking applicant profiles and progress  through the application process and required training    ? Taking initiative to learn new web page layout formatting, creating a presentation, and presenting it to teammates to make sure we were all up to speed and creating uniform code    ? Designing and developing a web application for creating templates for creating skills test to ask a random set of questions based depth of answers and skill level being tested Education Associates of Business in Computer Programming Northwest State Community College - Archbold, OH Skills Mysql, Visual studio, C#, C++, Html, Asset Management Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/thomas-custer-5438434b Additional Information AREAS OF EXPERTISE    Programming Languages: C, C++, C#, VB.NET, HTML, XML, CSS, Java, PHP, JavaScript,  Bash, Angular JS    Software / Tools: UrbanCode Deploy, Rational Team Concert, Maximo Asset Management,  Microsoft Office Suite, Visual Studio, Eclipse, Notepad++, Wamp Server, GitHub, Nagios  Monitoring    Databases: MySQL, Wamp Server, Amazon AWS EC2 Services