SSIS DEVELOPER SSIS <span class="hl">DEVELOPER</span> SSIS DEVELOPER Edison, NJ Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience SSIS DEVELOPER NRT LLC January 2017 to May 2019 NRT LLC is the nation's largest owner and operator of residential real estate brokerages with operations in more than 50 of the 100 largest metropolitan areas in the United States. Most operations are affiliated with Realogy's franchise brands Coldwell Banker®, Sotheby's International Realty® and ZipRealty®, though it also operates powerful regional and local brands such as The Corcoran Group® and Citi Habitats, as well as a robust commercial brand Coldwell Banker Commercial®.    • Working on relational, OLAP, Star Schema, Snowflake Schema, Multi-Dimensional database modeling and design  • New development as scoped and requested by the business  • Evaluating data file submissions and developing/maintaining SSIS packages for ETL processes  • Follows change management process to resolve application defects or to implement development enhancements  • Identify problems, develop ideas and propose solutions within differing situations requiring analytical, evaluative or constructive thinking in daily work.  • Experience in bulk importing CSV, XML and Flat files data using Bulk copy program BCP.  • Experience in Monitoring, Job Scheduling, Troubleshooting.  • Implemented incremental Load for many SSIS packages.  • Experience in Error handling, Debugging, error logging for production support in SSIS.  • Experienced in Extracting, Transforming and Loading ETL data from Excel, Flat file using SSIS services.  • Performed Logging and Deployment of various packages in SSIS.  • Experienced in enhancing and deploying the SSIS Packages from development server to production server.  • ETL implementation using SQL Server Integration Services SSIS.  • Handled Data Profiling Task.  • Reading multiple files from Directory and sending to recipients based on distribution rules. JUNIOR SSIS DEVELOPER MORGAN STANLEY September 2015 to July 2016 Morgan Stanley is a global financial services firm that provides services in investment banking, securities, wealth management and investment management. The main areas of business for the firm today are institutional securities, wealth management and investment management. It provides services to corporations, governments, large private financial institutions and high-net-worth individuals (HNWIs). Create source to target mappings and ETL design for integration of new/modified data streams into the data warehouse/data marts  • Proactive in identifying and communicating scope, design, development issues and recommending potential solutions  • Deliver projects/work on-time, on-budget, and in a way that accomplishes client goals  • Communicating design and other technical information both verbally and in written format  • Deliver projects/work on-time, and in a way that accomplishes client goals.  • Experienced in Extracting, Transforming and Loading ETL data from Oracle 10g to SQL SERVER using SSIS services.  • Performed Logging and Deployment of various packages in SSIS.  • Experienced in enhancing and deploying the SSIS Packages from development server to production server.  • ETL implementation using SQL Server Integration Services SSIS.  • Handled Data Profiling Task. SOFTWARE ENGINEER BARTRONICS INDIA LTD January 2011 to June 2014 Bartronics is a leading IT services & business solution provider delivering cutting edge technology solutions to enterprises such as Identification Technologies, Enterprise Business Intelligence (BI), Content Management, IT Infrastructure Management, Strategic Consulting Etc., The current Project is a Financial Inclusion project Working with bank.    • Checking the transactions done into the bank accounts and updating the accounts.  • Checking the fingerprints and photocopies match with customer while inserting data into the database or mapping them manually.  • Writing stored procedures for getting the data according to the requirement  • Creating triggers and sending the reports.  • Writing the queries and generate the reports  • Writing update queries and performing the operations.  • Altering the tables and updating the column sizes for inserting the records.  • Checking whether the transactions are getting inserted into the table.  • Writing triggers for inserting the records into the table when the transaction is made. EXECUTIVE ANDHRA BANK November 2009 to January 2011 Andhra Bank is one of the secured Financial Institutions that serves huge domain of customers. The current application is a part of Online Banking for villages where ATMs are not accessible and customers can have the provision of crediting or debiting the amount from their accounts.  • Inserting the customer records into the database collected from the fields using FTP (File Transfer Protocol).  • Creating the tables and checking the Mappings of the customers according to the Primary Key and Foreign Key Constraints.  • Updating the records in the database and creating reports regarding the customer transactions.  • Fix any issues related to database performance and provide corrective measures.  Technical Skills:  Languages SQL, PL/SQL  Tools SSIS  Database Oracle 11g/10g, SQL Server 2008/2014  Domain Knowledge Banking, Real Estate. Education Bachelor's Degree in Electrical and Electronics Engineering Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University 2009 Bachelor's Skills Sql Server