Systems Engineer Systems Engineer Software Engineer North Las Vegas, NV Work Experience Systems Engineer Hirschi Masonry June 2018 to Present Drupal 8  ? Applied knowledge in object oriented design and development ? MSSQL  to Drupal 8 development. ? Stored Procedures  ? Applied knowledge from Survey of Programming Languages ? AngularJS  to quickly get up to speed in Visual Basic. ? PHP 7  ? Research and Development of new Drupal 8 modules, AngularJS pages.  ? Helped shape the strategic vision of the technology  department. Software Developer Accretive Technology Group July 2014 to December 2014 Python  ? Developed an OLAP datacube in MySQL, Python/Tornado and ? MySQL  Angular JS Software Engineer Knotis, Inc March 2012 to June 2014 Django  ? Set and sysadmin of various systems, including a Nominatim ? Cassandra  (OpenStreetMap) server. ? HTML  ? Developed an extensible, cross platform mobile application, ? CSS  implemented RFC 5849. ? Javascript  ? Developed and maintained server code base in an Agile ? Java  environment.  ? Supervised and collaborated with the designer. Technical Project Manager/ Software Developer Solutions Bamberg, GmbH June 2010 to March 2012 XML  ? Encrypted MSSQL databases ? Stored Procedures  ? Distributed Systems  ? Stored Procedures, triggers, queries, reports  ? Enterprise desktop application development in ASP.Net  ? Estimation, Project Management, weekly planning meetings, strategic technology discussions Software Engineering Intern ThreeJS June 2008 to June 2008 Select Projects    FourD.js - A dynamic 3D graph visualization for the browser. ? ThreeJS  ? ECMAScript 6    FourDSocketProxy - A Node.js library for visualizing small dynamic ? Node.js  graphs. ? ThreeJS  ? socket.io  Based loosely on the now defunkt Ubigraph, this library is perfect for ? npm  use with Jupyter notebooks. ? HTML  ? CSS  ? ECMAScript 6    Social Cartography - A prototype for a 3D social network. ? HTML  ? ECMAScript 6  This project is the impetus for FourD in the first place. Originally, it ? ThreeJS  was called Karass, but it turns out the Vonnegut people own that  already. The aim here is to visualize a social network, so it can serve as a conversation piece for social workers and teachers. Education Computer Science Seattle University - Seattle, WA September 2006 to December 2010 High school or equivalent in Sciences and New Languages Dientzenhofer Gymnasium Bamberg - Bamberg, DE July 1996 to September 2004 North Pole High School Skills System Administrator, Vmware, Active Directory, Linux, DNS, Linux, Vmware, System Administrator, Active Directory Assessments Written Communication — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to convey written information using proper grammar rules. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/4wcmf16f1cv5ddwg Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.