Sr. Java Developer Sr. Java <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Developer - Verizon Tampa, FL • 7+years of experience in analyzing, designing, implementing, integrating and testing of Java/J2EE based enterprise applications.  • Excellent understanding of OOPS concepts and Design Patterns and experience in applying them in designing and developing SOA based applications.  • Worked extensively on plug-in development of Eclipse, Core Java, Multithreading, JUnit, JTest in Java. Strong at J2EE technologies such as Servlets, JSP, Java beans, JDBC Portal Concepts and Web Services.  • Experience in Java IDE tools like Eclipse, Rational Application Development (RAD) and Net Beans. Expertise in Microservice using spring, Spring Boot, Spring Cloud to develop loosely coupled processes.  • Sound knowledge of the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and Web Sphere application server. Extensive knowledge of Front End Technologies: AJAX, JSTL, JSP, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and CSS.  • Used Microservice with Spring Boot through a combination of REST and Apache Kafka message brokers. Good experience in implementing applications with Model-View-Controller (MVC) / N-tier Architecture.  • Strong experience in developing and deploying with Web sphere Application server, Apache Tomcat, Web Logic and JBoss.  • Experienced in writing Use Cases, Sequence Diagrams, and Class Diagrams with UML tools like Rational Rose for business modeling.  • Expertise in Application development using various frameworks such as Struts Framework, Spring Framework and Hibernate Framework.  • Good knowledge of database connectivity (JDBC) for databases like Oracle, DB2, SQL Server, MySql, and MS Access.  • Possess knowledge of Object Oriented Analysis and Design using Unified Modeling Language (UML), Agile, Waterfall cycle, and PL/SQL. Work Experience Sr. Java Developer Verizon - Tampa, FL January 2019 to Present Responsibilities:  • Responsible in developing Spring Boot Microservices from scratch. Used JPA for data persistence with Oracle database.  • Reduced web service response time using JPA compared to existing mainframe response time. Deployed Microservice to cloud foundry.  • Configured log4J for Spring Boot Microservice. Configured Swagger-UI registered Microservice with Eureka server to monitor service health check etc. from Spring Boot admin console.  • Wrote JUnit test cases for my applications. Converted file uploading existing web service to Microservice for large Excel document uploads, validations, inserting records into Oracle DB tables.  • Involved in performance tuning, research and development projects. Deployed tested Microservices into server for development, continue user acceptance testing and provide logs for bug fixing.  • Configuring Swagger for documentation of Rest Controllers and to generate request and response templates.  • Using Criteria Builder created a framework to build queries to get result list of huge data. Wrote Native Queries for complex situations to get the data  • Integrating Microservices and JSP's using Ajax and jersey client based on the Rest template which is generated using Swagger. Involved in solving production issues.    Environment: Java 1.7, Microservices, Spring Boot, Spring Data, JPA, Github, Oracle SQL Developer, Spring Tool Suite, putty, JavaScript, jQuery, Mockito JUnits. Sr. Java Developer CenterPoint Energy - Houston, TX June 2016 to November 2018 Description: DBS Bank is one of the secured financial institutions that serves huge domain of customers. The current application is a part of online banking.    Responsibilities:  • Analysis Design and Development, Testing and Production Support.  • Actively participated in the complete Software development life cycle starting from design phase to the implementation phase. Involved in requirements gathering and designed high and low level designs using UML.  • Developed PL/SQL procedures, Java and JavaScript, J Query code.  • Extensively worked on generating complex reports.  • Developed Web Services for sending and getting data from different applications using SOAP messages, such as Loan Applications to transfer data from Branch Server to Head office Server, then used SAX and DOM XML parsers for data retrieval.  • Developed functional model, object model and dynamic model using UML.  • Developed code for various activities using MVC architecture.  • Developed client side screen using JSP, HTML and DHTML.  • Worked on development of Hibernate, including mapping files, configuration file and classes to interact with the database.  • Developed web service (which talks with web method) for uploading CSV (using web methods) files and validating and later inserting into the corresponding tables.  • Involved in injecting dependencies into code using spring core module concepts like IOC of Spring Framework.    Environment: J2EE, MySQL, Spring, Hibernate, JSP, HTML, JavaScript, J Query, XML (SAX and DOM), RAD, JUNIT, and JNDI. Jr. Software engineer Citi Bank - New York, NY August 2014 to May 2016 This project attempts to automate the income tax and the sales tax procedures. This project is not specific to any country, but to display the working of the model, the guidelines and business rules specific to the Indian government's tax procedures have been considered.  Responsibilities:  • Training in gathering user requirements and followed by analysis and design.  • Assisting in Developing JSPs, action classes, form beans, response beans, EJBs.  • Coded Servlets for the Transactional Model to handle many requests.  • Participated in developing business objects helpers which interact with middleware tubs.  • Involved in implementing business delegate pattern to separate view from business process.  • Extensively used XML to code configuration files.  • Developed PL/SQL stored procedures, triggers..  • Performed functional, integration, system, and validation testing.    Environment: Java, Servlets, EJBs, HTML, Oracle 8i. Java Developer BCBS - Jacksonville, FL April 2012 to July 2014 Description:Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Florida is a non-profit organization providing health care products and services to Florida residents.  Medicare Business Solution Platform (Sapphire): Integrated and Modernized Platform for Enrollment & Reporting capabilities for both Medicare Advantage and Medicare Supplemental products.  Enrollment: Sapphire application providing solution and end to end process for Medicare Business Solution. This application receives EDI-834 enrollment application from all different channels, which are UI, Agents and Blue Cross Gateway. Also includes complete automation of sending various CMS Transactions to CMS via intermediate CMS Vendor Plan Data Management (PDM).    Responsibilities:  • Involved in researching, analyzing, designing, proposing, and delivering solutions that are appropriate for the business and technology strategies.  • Designed and developed generic commands that can be injected using spring for enrollment application.  • Used Spring Transaction for controlling the transaction in the application.  • Designed and developed a persistence framework extending Hibernate to add custom persistence code for handling auditing and logging into database.  • Designing and Developed Message Driven Beans (MDB) for receiving asynchronous messages sent on IBM MQ.  • Developed UI Screens using Spring MVC Tags, JSP, HTML, CSS and Java Script.  • Navigation: Designed a common controller in determining the appropriate resulting UI page based on the service outcome.  • Prepare common layer to convert Data Transfer Object to Domain Object.  • Integrating web-tier and ejb-tier using Spring IOC.  • Designed a common controller in determining the appropriate resulting UI page based on the service outcome.  • Designing and development of independent configurable validator commands (beans) to apply business rules and common UI rules.  • Provide Security service using IOP and Filters.  • Web service Consuming: Automatically assigning Primary Care Physician (PCP) to HMO members using Open Provider Directory Web services.  • Provide common Service to integrate the transmission of business related exceptions to workflow management system (Siebel).  • Analyzing memory usage using IBM Heap analyzer.  • Analyzing threads usage using IBM Thread analyzer.  • Check the application's performance using HP Business Availability Center tool.  • Preparing documentation for set up environment (Data Source, Queues, Listener ports and etc.)  • Involved in Big Data implementation    Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring IOC, AOP, Spring Security, Hibernate, JMS, JSP, CSS3, HTML5, JavaScript, J Query, Restful, XML, XSLT, Oracle, PL/SQL, Maven, SVN, Log4j, WebSphere, JUnit, Windows. Java Developer LabCorp America - Burlington, NC June 2011 to March 2012 Description:  Laboratory Corporation of America Holdings operates one of the largest clinical laboratory networks in the world, with a United States network of 36 primary laboratories. One of the Web Application that maintains the patients records and gives access for the customers for ordering and scheduling the tests along with bill payment.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in requirements gathering, analysis, and design and in development of application based on Java using spring framework 4.3.0.  • Integrated the application with spring framework for implementing Dependency injection and provide abstraction between presentation layer and persistence layer.  • Developed Jersey Restful Framework of spring for consuming and producing web services. Successfully executed all the list cases and fixed any bugs/issues identified during the test cycles.  • Used GIT as version control repository, Bamboo for Continuous Build Integration. Used JAX-RS annotations to specify the type of data producing or consuming, validate the user requests, map user requests and to pass input parameters.  • Provided Technical support for resolving the issues, analyzing the defects using JIRA, providing and implementing the solutions for defects.  • Implemented Log4J for Logging Errors, debugging and tracking using loggers, appends components.  • Developed the unit test cases Test Driven Development (TDD) and mock testing using JUNIT and Mockito frameworks.  • Used Eclipse IDE for the application development and integration to the frameworks, deployed applications.    Environment: Java, spring, Web Sphere Application Server (WAS), Mockito JUnit Runner, Bit Bucket, Sonar Qube, Jira, Rest web services - jersey, Work Front API, Log4J Education Bachelor's Skills Eclipse, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Jboss, Jms, Jndi, Jsf, Jsp, Jstl, Servlet, Struts, Jdbc, Mysql, Oracle, Oracle 10g, Dtd, Javascript, Visual basic, Xml Additional Information Technical Skills:    Programming Language Java, CSS, JavaScript, Visual Basic,  Java Standard Edition Core Java, JDBC, Internationalization & Localization etc  J2EE Technologies Java EE , JSP, Servlet, JSF, JSTL, XSLT, JNDI, JMS, SOAP, Java Mail, JDBC  Open Source Framework Hibernate, Struts 1.2/2.0, Springs  IDEs & Tools Eclipse, MyEclipse  Application/Web Servers WebSphere, WebLogic, Apache Tomcat, Apache Web Server, JBoss 4.3.2 GA  Databases Oracle 10g/11g, MySQL 5.x  O/S & Environment Windows Vista/XP/2000/NT, HP-Unix and Linux  XML Technologies XML, XML Schema(XSD), DTD, XSL, DOM, SAX