Sr Java Developer Sr Java <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr Java Developer - Comcast Roseland, NJ ? Around 6+ Years of extensive IT experience in developing, design, analysis, testing of various web based, SOA based and client/server applications in multi-platform environments with JAVA/J2EE technologies.  ? Experience in various Agile Methodologies like Test Driven Development (TDD), SOA, SCRUM and Waterfall.  ? Proficient in OOAD Technologies developing use cases, Activity Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams and Class Diagrams using case tools like Microsoft Visio and Rational Rose.  ? Highly proficient in using OOPS for building n-tier architecture systems with hands on development expertise in front-end UI layer, core business frameworks and Back-end database layer integration.  ? Experience in Front-End UI development skills using scripting languages like HTML5, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, AJAX, Angular JS, React, Bootstrap, Tag Libraries, JSTL.  ? Expert in Core Java with strong understanding of Garbage Collector, Collections, Multithreading, Event handling, Exception handling and Generics.  ? Experience with jQuery, Ajax, JavaScript, Nodejs, React.js, Backbone.js, Angular.js, Angular 2.x/4.x and Client-side validations.  ? Expertise in implementation of J2EE Technologies: JSP, JTS, Servlets, JSF, JSTL, EJB transaction implementation, JMS, Struts, Swing, Hibernate, Java Beans, JDBC, XML, Web Services, JNDI, Swing, Serialization and Externalization.  ? Experience in developing web applications on MVC based frameworks like Spring, Spring IOC, Spring Security, Spring Boot, Spring Cloud, and Spring MVC.  ? Experience in integrating the internal security model into new projects with Spring Batch, Spring Microservices and Spring Boot, Pivotal Cloud Foundry and Netflix Eureka.  ? Experience in development of REST and SOAP based web services using AXIS, WSDL, UDDI, XML, JAX-WS, JAX-RS, JAXB, JAX-RPC, AJAX technologies and Jersey frameworks.  ? Experience using J2EE design patterns like Singleton, Prototype, Business Delegate, Session Façade Pattern, DAO, MVC, Abstract Factory and Factory Pattern.  ? Expertise in XML technologies such as DTD, XSL, XSLT, XML schemas, XPath, XSL-FO and parsers like SAX, DOM.  ? Expertise in Back-end/server-side java technologies such as: Web services, Java persistence API (JPA), Java Messaging Service (JMS), RabbitMQ, Java Database Connectivity (JDBC), Java Naming and Directory Interface (JND).  ? Expertise in open source framework Object Relational Mapping (ORM) tools like Hibernate and used Hibernate Annotations to reduce time at the configuration level.  ? Expertise in databases such as Oracle, MySQL, SQL Server, NoSQL, Maria DB, and IBM DB2 databases to manage tables, views, indexes, sequences, stored procedures, functions, triggers and packages.  ? Experience in AWS Solutions using EC2, S3, RDS, EBS, Elastic Load Balancer, Dynamo DB and Auto Scaling Groups.  ? Experience with JUnit, Mockito, Log4j, SLF4J in developing test cases and determining application functionality.  ? Experience in scripting deployments to AWS, Monitoring infrastructure like Nagios, AppDynamics, New Relic etc.  ? Experience in development, deployment and troubleshooting Web based and enterprise-based applications on Windows, UNIX and Linux platforms.  ? Experience in building applications using ANT, Maven, Jenkins and Gradle.  ? Knowledge on developing search components using Apache Solr, which includes custom search handlers and custom handlers.  ? Experience in using code repository tools - Tortoise SVN, CVS, GitHub, and Visual Source Safe. Work Experience Sr Java Developer Comcast - Philadelphia, PA August 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Gathering requirements on sprint planning meetings and working with business analysts for resolving design issues.  ? Using Java8 features in developing the code like Lambda expressions, creating resource classes, fetching documents from database.  ? Have worked on AWS for fetch the pictures and Videos from AWS to UI.  ? Developed REST web services to expose the Middleware services.  ? Implemented initial setup of angular4 application with node and npm modules.  ? Implemented layout of front end web page with angular components and created angular services to interact with backend java application.  ? Written Map reduce and Spark codes in Java to run a sorting application on the data stored AWS.  ? Good knowledge in deploying the application jar files into AWS instances.  ? Interfaced with the My SQL back-end database by integrating Spring with Hibernate.  ? Developed angular forms, routes, injectable services, 2-way binding attributes, event emitters.  ? Written Type scripts for UI logic and written type scripts for unit testing of UI components.  ? Involved in Construction of UI using jQuery, Angular4, Node JS and JavaScript.  ? Configured Spring boot restful web services application and enabled actuator to monitor application health status.  ? Worked with Object-Oriented JavaScript such as Backbone.js, Knockout.js, Ember.js, Handlebars.js.  ? Used Scala collection framework to store and process the complex consumer information.  ? Integrated NoSQL database like HBase with Apache Spark to move bulk amount of data into HBase.  ? Have worked on AWS to integrate the server side and client-side code.  ? Modified existing and created new Hibernate objects-based Queries for data storage, retrieval, tuning and mapping.  ? Used NPM for installing required node.js modules and other published Angular NPM modules  ? Configured Mongo repository and developed persistence objects with Spring Data Module.  ? Developing business logic with Java core, collections and java 8 lambda expressions, streamers, Local Date objects.  ? Consumed Web Services to interact with other external interfaces in order to exchange the data in the form of XML and by using SOAP.  ? Created modal objects to integrate request and responses between front-end angular and java web services in JSON format.  ? Created DTO objects, JPA repositories and created native SQL queries to persist data to database.  ? Used log4J for application logging and notification tracing mechanisms.  ? Configured Maven and resolved life cycle dependencies and generated artifacts for deployment.  ? Developed Test Driver components with TDD added code in crucible to find defects and resolve them before quality testing performed.  ? Attending daily scrum meeting, sprint planning meeting, backlog refinements.  ? Involved in Agile/SCRUM process, attending daily stand up and completing tasks in sprints.  ? Involved in code review meetings and updating components as suggest by tech leads.  ? Developed and executed test strategy and coordinated QA testing in Agile Environment.    Environment: Java 8, HTML5, CSS3, Java Script, AWS, Spark, Scala, XML, GWT, Ajax, Angular4, Backbone.js, Knockout.js, AWS, Restful Services, Node JS, Mongo DB, Docker, Grunt, NPM, Jasmine, Jira. Java Full Stack Engineer Triple Canopy - Reston, VA May 2016 to July 2017 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in SCRUM process of AGILE methodology in Requirement gathering, Design, Analysis and Code development through iterations.  ? Involving Servlets, JSP, CSS, XSLT, JavaScript for client-side validation, AJAX for Interactive client GUI with Form Beans and EJB.  ? Developed various screens for the front end using ReactJS and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager).  ? Involved in creating a reusable component using React JS for DOM manipulation.  ? Working experience on integrating back-end technologies (NodeJS) with JavaScript frameworks (Angular JS, React JS) and jQuery by using AJAX and JSON.  ? Used AngularJS with JSON Object returned by Spring MVC Controller.  ? Used AJAX in the JSP side to retrieve the records dynamically from the database and displayed on the front end, it avoids refreshing of total page.  ? Writing Restful APIs in Express.js and return logic on Angular data binding.  ? Designed and developed Graphical User interface using JSF, HTML, XHTML, jQuery and CSS.  ? Worked on Bootstrap CSS framework for Responsive Web Design.  ? Using D3.js, developed map for specific area and some of the charts that easily make it easy to compare data.  ? Created server and handled requests and responses from controllers by using Express.js.  ? Used various Core Java concepts such as Multithreading, Exception Handling, Collection APIs to implement various features and enhancements  ? Developed Business layer using Spring (IOC, AOP), DTO, JTA, and Persistent layer DAO, Hibernate for all modules.  ? Used Spring core annotations for Dependency injection and Spring MVC for REST API s and Spring Boot for microservices.  ? Configured JMS Server setup and DB Connection pool setup & deployed Returned items in WebLogic Server and Created Maven build file to build the application and deployed on WebSphere server.  ? Implemented SOA architecture for EVS with web services using SOAP, WSDL, and XML.  ? Designed DAO and service layer for ORM mapping with hibernate which can be easily changed to other ORM tools.  ? Configured data sources, DAO classes and integrated with iBATIS through spring.  ? Wrote Hibernate configuration files, mapping files and defined persistence classes to persist data into MySQL Database.  ? Updated legacy Ant build infrastructure to new Gradle based build system, enabling more robust test, build and release procedures.  ? Used Eclipse 3.2 IDE for developing code modules and deployed on Apache Tomcat.  ? Using UMLRationalRose, designed Use Case Diagrams, Class Diagrams and Sequence Diagrams and Object Diagrams to model the detail design of the application.  ? Used Test driven methods to improve the code and find defects in the code.  ? Wrote test cases for unit testing JUnit and used JIRA for bug and issue tracking.  ? Involved in discussions with the testing teams to see the tasks accomplished meets the Acceptance Criteria of the product owners.  ? Monitored the logs using Log4J and fixed the problems and used SVN (Subversion) for source control along with Tortoise integration.    Environment: Java 7, AngularJS 1.4, HTML/HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Core Java, jQuery, Bootstrap, SOAP, WSDL, REST Web Services, AJAX, D3.js, JSON, Spring(IOC, AOP), XML, Maven, iBATIS, SOA, JIRA, MySQL, JMS, Agile/Scrum, WebLogic Server, Gradle, SVN, Eclipse, Apache Tomcat. Java Developer John Hopkins - Baltimore, MD June 2015 to April 2016 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in preparation of functional definition documents  ? Gathered the requirements and designed the application flow.  ? Used HTML, JavaScript, AJAX and JSP to create the user interface.  ? Extensively worked with struts for middle tier development with Hibernate as ORM and Spring IoC for dependency injection for the application based on MVC design paradigm.  ? Developed Action classes for the systems as a feature of struts.  ? Performed both server side and client-side validations.  ? Created struts-config.xml file to manage with the page view.  ? Developed EJB components to implement business logic using session and message bean.  ? Used spring framework to integrate with struts web framework, Hibernate.  ? Extensively worked with Hibernate to connect to database for data persistence.  ? Integrate active catalog to get parts using JMS  ? Used Log4J log for both user interface and domain level messages.  ? Performed unit testing for modules using JUnit.  ? Implemented spring framework dependency injection for defining objects.  ? Used Log4J to capture the log that includes runtime exceptions  ? Used JIRA tool to communicate with other team members in QA and production.  ? Used agile methodologies, test driven development and automated builds  ? Responsible for the complete design and development of the User Administration module  ? Involved in developing the customer form data tables, stored procedures and triggers  ? Written SQL queries and PL/SQL stored procedures  ? Participated actively in application production launch  ? Helped production support team to solve trouble reports  ? Participated efficiently in the Development and Testing phases of the project Create program specifications and unit test plans for software programs.    Environment: and Tools: Core Java, J2EE, Design Patterns, GUI, HTML, CSS, Servlets, JMS, JSP, Web Service (SOAP), ANT, Maven, JDBC, Springs AOP, Hibernate, CVS, WebSphere 5.1, IBM Rational Application developer, JavaScript, XML, SQL, PL/SQL, Oracle, JUnit, UNIX, Windows 7 Java Developer Domo - American Fork, UT November 2014 to May 2015 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in designing of the application following Spring- Jersey architecture.  ? Designed the system based on Spring MVC Model architecture. Developed a business logic layer using Spring Dependency Injection and client-side Java-beans for DAO Design Patterns.  ? Developed Hibernate with Spring Integration as the data abstraction to interact with the database and used dependency injection (DI) using Spring framework and annotations.  ? Creating Menus, drag/drop blocks (DIV) using DHTML, saving user preferences at backend by sending the request to server-side components.  ? Used groovy and spring boot to collecting the data from users and packaged the data as json distributed to applications.  ? Spring framework is used to implement Inversion of Control (IOC) and Aspect Oriented programming (AOP).  ? Developed SOAP based Web Services for Integrating with the Enterprise Information System Tier.  ? Extensive use of JavaScript and libraries, to display report data based on user customization, and generating reports as a graphical representation.  ? Used JSP, JavaScript, JSTL, EL, Custom Tag libraries, Tiles, Interceptors, and Validations provided by Spring framework.  ? Designing user Interface using CSS, as an external and internal source and also updating it manually depending on client display requirements using Adobe Dreamweaver CS3.  ? Creating complex client-side scripts using libraries, for development team to integrate with server-side components to facilitate the user interface display.  ? Application pages development using Struts / Tiles MVC framework, JSPs for presentation layer and client-side validations, writing configuration XMLs, validation with Struts validation framework and extensive use of JavaScript, database interaction with IBM DB2 and deploying using IBM WebSphere application server.  ? Validation XMLs from back-end for reporting and integrating XSLT transformations to apply formatting and displaying in front-end for business users.  ? Developed an e-mail component for client communication manager, using SMTP to send customer inputs as an e-mail, to the business users with a preformatted HTML message composition.    Environment: Java: JDK 1.6, JSP, Java Script, HTML, AJAX, XSLT, XML, DHTML, Web, IBM WebSphere Application server6.1, UNIX, Struts/Tiles, XSLT/ XSL-FO, Spring, IBM DB2, UML, IBM Rational Clear case, JUNIT 3.8, log4j 1.2, Ant 2.7. J2EE Developer Xcel Energy - Minneapolis, MN July 2013 to October 2014 Responsibilities:  ? Mavenized the existing applications using Maven tool.  ? Added the required jar files to the application as dependencies to the pom.XML file.  ? Used JSF & Struts frameworks to interact with the front end.  ? Utilized Swing/JFC framework to develop client-side components.  ? Developed J2EE components on Eclipse IDE.  ? Created Multi Excel Comparator tool for client Suisse Bank using JAVA and effective use of data structures and algorithms, it has successfully saved 520$/ person for a month.  ? Developed a new CR screen from the existing screen for the LTL loads (Low Truck Load) using JSF.  ? Used spring framework configuration files to manage objects and to achieve dependency injection.  ? Implemented cross cutting concerns like logging and monitoring mechanism using Spring AOP.  ? Implemented SOA architecture with web services using SOAP, WSDL, UDDI and XML.  ? Made screen changes to the existing screen for the LTL (Low Truck Load) Accessories using Struts.  ? Developed desktop interface using Java Swing for maintaining and tracking products.  ? Used JAX-WS to access the external web services, get the xml response and convert it back to java objects.  ? Developed the application using Eclipse IDE and worked under Agile Environment.  ? Working with Web admin and the admin team to configure the application on development, training, test and stress environments (Web logic server).  ? Build PL\SQL functions, stored procedures, views and configured Oracle Database 11g with JNDI data source with connection pooling enabled.  ? Used Hibernate based persistence classes at data access tier.  ? Used Spring Quartz timer to load the DIM data base with device battery information on regular intervals of time.  ? Adopted J2EE design patterns like Service Locator, Session Facade and Singleton.  ? Worked on Spring Core layer, Spring ORM, Spring AOP in developing the application components  ? Modified web pages using JSP and Used Struts Validation Framework for form input validation.  ? Created the WSDL and used Apache Axis 2.0 for publishing the WSDL.  ? Creating PDF files for storing the data required for module.  ? Used custom components using JSTL tags and Tag libraries implementing struts.  ? Used Web Logic server for deploying the war files.  ? Used Toad for the DB2 database changes.    Environment: Java, J2EE, JSF, Hibernate, Struts, Spring, Swing/JFC, JSP, HTML, XML, Web Logic, iText, DB2, Eclipse IDE, SOAP, Maven, JSTL, TOAD, DB2, Web Logic Server, WSDL, JAX-WS, Apache Axis. Software Developer Avera Health - Sioux Falls, SD May 2012 to June 2013 Responsibilities:  ? Responsible for gathering and analysis of business requirements.  ? Involved in all SDLC ( Software Development Life Cycle) Phases of the project.  ? Developed the application using JSP, Spring MVC for front end, Spring 3.2 framework to manage business layer components and JDBC for performing database transactions.  ? Used various built-in controllers of spring MVC.  ? Used spring web flow to navigate between pages.  ? Involved in user interface design and development using JSP, HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  ? Designed and developed JSPs, Servlets based on user requirements.  ? Responsible for implementing Hibernate mapping files.  ? Exposed Business service layer as REST Web Services.  ? Invoked External web services using Spring Web Services.  ? Wrote Maven build scripts to compile Java classes and create jar, performed unit testing and package them into ear files.  ? Developed Oracle Stored Procedures and Functions using SQL Developer.  ? Used Hudson and Sonar for Application Continuous Integration.  ? Used GIT as repository for source code maintenance.  ? Developed SOA, software apps and web service solutions using Oracle OSB 11g.  ? Interacted with clients directly on project status and requirements.    Environment: Java, J2EE, JSP, Spring MVC, Spring Web Flows, JavaScript, jQuery, Hibernate, Spring, Webservices, Oracle 10G, XML, XSD, WebLogic9, Eclipse, Maven, GIT, Hudson, Rest, SQL Developer. Education Bachelors of Science Dickinson State University - Dickinson, ND 2012 Skills JAVA (6 years), HIBERNATE (6 years), SPRING (6 years), XML (6 years), MAVEN (5 years), J2Ee, Rest, Angular, Javascript, Java J2Ee Additional Information Skills:    Languages Java 1.5/1.6/1.7/1.8, J2EE, C, C++  Web Technologies HTML/HTML5, DHTML, XML, CSS, Bootstrap, JSF, JavaScript API 3.0, AJAX  Frameworks Spring 4.3 Hibernate 4.3, Angular JS 1.0/1.5/2.0, Struts 2.x/1.x, Log4J, Angular 2and 4, React,  Application/Web servers Apache Tomcat 8, IBM WebSphere 8.x/9.x, Jetty, Jenkins 2.50, JBoss, Tomcat 5.0/6.0/7.0, Glassfish  Relational Databases Oracle 8i/9i/10g/11g, SQL server 2012/2014/2016, MySQL 5.7, DB2 11.1  NoSQL Databases MongoDB, Cassandra, Couch DB  Web Services JAX-WS, JAX-RPC, JAX-RS, SOAP, WSDL, UDDI, REST, SOAP UI  Cloud Environments Azure, AWS, Netflix Eureka, Mesos.  Operating systems Windows, MS-DOS, UNIX, Mac OS, Linux and Ubuntu  Testing Tools Junit 4.12, Win Runner, Jenkins, Selenium WebDriver/Grid, JIRA 7.0., Bugzilla 4.4.12, Jasper Reports 6.0  Methodologies Agile, waterfall, TDD (Test-Driven-Development), Scrum, SDLC  Developer IDE Platforms Eclipse, Edit plus, Notepad ++, Intellij 2017.1, Spring Tool Suite (STS) 3.8.3, GITHUB 2.12.0  Build Tools Ant 1.10, Maven 3.3.9, Gradle 3.4.1