UI Developer UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> San Jose, CA Work Experience UI Developer Roc Search - Austin, TX February 2019 to August 2019 • Lead UI / UX Development for a .Net WPF MVVM application pertaining to the southeastern oil & gas industry.  • Implemented a complete front-end redesign of an already existing .Net WPF application. Throughout this process I also designed and delivered several significant upgrades to the overall usability of the application, including hand-coded Storyboard and DataTrigger animations, dynamic UserControls which were made customizable through the use of DependencyProperties, and heavily-modified custom controls that were based on default MSDN ControlTemplates.  • Designed and delivered highly responsive, self-reporting, single-scrolling user experiences for various input screens.  • Smaller projects also incorporated front-end web development using C#, Javascript, HTML5, CSS3, and ReactJS.  • Delivered various UI / UX mockup design propositions using Figma. Full Stack Web Developer Chabad.org - Brooklyn, NY July 2018 to November 2018 • Assisted in the process of updating a classic ASP forms project to a modern Javascript framework project.  • Primarily focused on front-end web development using C#, Javascript, HTML5, CSS3, ASP.Net, and EmberJS. Software Engineer I Electronic Arts - Baton Rouge, LA July 2015 to March 2018 Net Software Engineer with a primary focus on Lead UI /UX Development for internal QA testing tools.  • Designed and developed a .Net WPF MVVM application from its initial inception to its eventual release. Responsible for making critical creative design decisions concerning application aesthetics, user interface, and user experience.  • Created heavily-customized controls with various states of interactivity, including hand-coded Storyboard and DataTrigger animations. Provided all user-facing documentation after the project's initial launch.  • Emphasis on Agile development methodologies via Scrum meetings, daily standups, and bi-weekly Sprint planning.  • Key technologies included .Net WPF development using C#, XAML, and MVVM  • Smaller projects also incorporated ASP.Net, ReactJS, and Microsoft WinForms Java Developer Methods Technologies - Baton Rouge, LA April 2014 to July 2015 • Assisted in the creation and maintenance of software for the United States Department of Defense.  • Heavy emphasis on front-end web development using HTML5, CSS3, AngularJS, and core JavaScript.  • Key technologies include Apache Struts 2, JSP, Ext JS, and the Java EE (J2EE) stack. Java Developer Ameritas Technologies - Baton Rouge, LA April 2013 to October 2013 • Utilized the Java Spring framework for building J2EE applications, and experimented with JSF 2.0 as a means for building front-facing, intranet employee portals.  • Front-end web design and development using HTML5, CSS3, AngularJS, Gimp, and JavaScript.  • Emphasis on design patterns, team-building, and group code reviews. Software Developer CGB Enterprises, Inc - Mandeville, LA January 2012 to March 2013 • Worked on a small team comprised of two junior .Net WPF developers and one senior-level developer to design and implement a mobile claims adjustment application pertaining to the federal crop insurance industry.  • Emphasis on Agile development methodologies via Scrum meetings, daily standups, and Sprint planning sessions.  • Key technologies included .Net WPF development using C#, XAML, and MVVM. Education Computer Science SOUTHEASTERN LOUISIANA UNIVERSITY - Hammond, LA Skills C#, Javascript, Reactjs, Software development, User interface design, Interface design, User interface, Wpf, Html5, User experience, React, UI, Front-End, CSS3, Front End Additional Information • C#, JavaScript, XAML, HTML5, CSS3, WPF, ReactJS, EmberJS, Sketch, Figma, Unity, Unreal  • I take a deeply user-centric approach to software development, and I have been recognized at every stage of my career for making significant contributions to both User Experience and User Interface design decisions.