PES- Software Engineer with Power BI PES-<span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer with Power BI Software Engineer with Power BI Bellevue, WA • Around 7 years of IT experience in Microsoft Business Intelligence, Data warehouse, SQL Server, SQL Server  Integration Services, SQL Server Analysis & Reporting services, Power View, Azure Data Factory, Azure data  Lake & Informatica.  • Created a server auto-inventory asp.net Core MVC web app with microservices backend that automatically, physically locates as well as inventories deployed hardware down to the component level, tracks FW and salient server information and an SCCM instance for Azure Cloud Server Infrastructure org.  • Setup and optimized monitoring solutions as well as PowerShell automation for various windows infrastructure (DHCP, SQL servers, clusters of various types).  • Set up Azure Active Directory authentication solutions and Azure Key vault solutions to allow for JIT auth  • Developed custom asp.net rest Api's with both https using the Gest, Post, Put, and delete options which were secured by Azure Active Directory Oauth V2  • Worked with Developing PowerShell modules and C# classes to act as REST API clients for automation.  • Collaborated with external partners such as agencies to assist with data collection, reporting and A/B test development.  • Architected several SQL databases using TSQL with EF and a few MY SQL Databases with optimizes indexing to retrieve information quickly while also avoiding locks which were used for automation purposes.  • Experienced in designing SSIS packages to import and transform data between databases and external data sources using various transformations.  • Experienced in configuration and maintain Report Manager and Report Server for SSRS, Deployed and Scheduled the Reports in Report Manager  • Experienced in all facets of Software Development Life Cycle (Analysis, Design, Development, Testing and maintenance) using Waterfall and Agile methodologies.  • Expertise in creating reports from importing, Direct Query and Live data from several data sources.  • Good at developing and implementing reporting and data solutions, including custom user interfaces. In-depth understanding of all stages of software development life cycle (SDLC).  • Build and maintain SQL scripts, indexes, and complex queries for data analysis and extraction. Provide database coding to support business applications using Sybase T-SQL.  • Extracting, transforming and loading data (ETL) between various Homogenous and Heterogeneous data  sources using SSIS, Informatica PowerCenter and Azure Data Factory and worked on improving ETL  performance.  • Experience in SQL Server database objects development including Stored Procedures, Functions, Views,  Triggers, CTE, Indexes, and Synonyms.  • Performing data quality analysis to ensure accuracy for data reconciliation.  • Developed ETL procedures to migrate data from an existing data warehouse to an integrated enterprise level data warehouse.  • Used different data sources like SQL, Analysis services, Excel to develop visuals. Performed data transformations, data cleaning on the data sets to generate meaningful reports. Provided story-based insights using Power BI reports and dashboards. Data aggregation using Excel, Pivot tables, SQL.  • Involved in creating dynamic well-organized, accurate an insightful Power BI reports/dashboard to support strategic decisions.  • Extensively worked on data exploration, data cleaning methods using R.  • Expert in Working on end to end project in Azure Environment by pulling the source da ta from SQL Server and storing the data in Azure SQL Server using Blob Storage and creating reports using Power BI Desktop. Also involved in migrating SQL data to KUSTO.  • Having good experience with using DAX and worked on analyzing the data using Excel and used excel data as data source for power bi reports.  • Worked with packages like ggplot2 and shiny in R to understand data and developing applications. And  • Worked on Tableau, Quick View to create dashboards and visualizations.  • Good written skills and technical writing skills, as well as an ability to ascertain what the customer needs for the environment.  • Learns new or different technologies rapidly in a completely self -driven and independent manner. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience PES- Software Engineer with Power BI Arterian - Redmond, WA January 2016 to February 2018 Description: The Project was based on Credit and Collections App which is available in AppSource. With the introduction of CDS-A integration, existing application in AppSource will be replaced with the new one. Current Power BI solutions template requires the user to provide their own Azure subscription and create an Azure SQL database. With the introduction of a storage component within Power BI, aka CDS-A, the legacy app which required deployment of a SQL DB etc. will no longer be available in AppSource. Objective of this work is to build, test and deliver the vNext of Credit & Collections Power BI App that leverages CDS-A platform for Dynamics 365. While this work would result in a much simpler experience for the Credit & collections App, it enables the customer to leverage Power BI to extend the solution and hydrates CDS-A platform with F&O data.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in understanding the client's business processes and gathering technical requirement.  • Worked on preparing for the development estimation time and technical design documents and setting up different environments.  • Worked with various types and stages of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) processes including Analysis, Design, Development, Testing and Implementation.  • Liaised with project management and development teams to identify and implement reporting, control, and automation opportunities to improve overall access to information.  • Develop business solution for financial reports like Sales opportunity, lead, forecast etc. Design and implement financial dashboard to track performance against measured KPI's.  • Creating critical measures like MOM, YOY and QOQ using DAX and R Script which helped the Finance key holders to understand the spent across key portfolios  • Created complex SQL views to support the business and operations for reporting.  • Collaborated with Business Analysts, SMEs and other BI developers across departments to identify existing report needs, new reporting requirements and translated them into deliverable solutions.  • Extracting business data from different OLTP systems and loads into data warehouse using SQL server Integration Services (SSIS)  • Worked on providing row level securities using power bi to restrict data access for various users.  • Created Azure Data Factory pipelines to pull data from various source like Azure DataLake, On Premise SQL Server and stage the data in Azure storage.  • Designed the ADF Pipeline in such a way that it can pull data from non-dependent tables or files in parallel enabling polybase.  • Created dependency using input and output datasets in ADF pipeline.  • Created logging to check the status of each pipeline and Data is moved to Azure Data WareHouse from azure storage.  • Created Stored Procedure to insert or merge records into main table and applied business rules wherever required.  • Used TFS (Team Foundation Server) and Visual studio Team services (VSTS) to share all the work, code, to sort out the exceptions raised during work.  • Participating in Daily stand up Agile/Scrum meetings to discuss regarding the enhancements to be made for the existing requirements.  Finance Automation  • Created critical dashboards deep diving on critical finance KPIs- Total Budget, Total Spend, Available & Forecast. This helped Microsoft Finance Leadership in making Budget decisions and resource management.  • Created customized insights with reporting abilities to understand trends through various stakeholder lenses.  • Presented the monthly amount spend across various Project IOs against the allocated budget.  • Automatic refresh scheduling for all the dashboards.  Procurement Operations Analytics  • Created visuals both high level and deep dives which represents month on month tickets volume, % volume change, request categorization, resolution time and tickets pending by days.  • Presented Trend analysis on the monthly amounts spend on cost centers.  Environment: SQL Server Management Studio, Visual Studio 2015, Microsoft Azure, Team Foundation Server (TFS), Power BI Desktop, Power BI service, Agile/Scrum, Power BI, SSIS, SSAS, Visio, MS Excel, and Windows. Software developer OUTSOURCING SERVICES Pvt Ltd - Hyderabad, Telangana February 2012 to December 2015 Description: As part of the Afriasia I was building and helping them with the web portal where all the information is added in the portal from the backend using the Databases and other software technologies.    • Developed system objectives, requirements, business models, user models, and business rules.  • Designed and validated the business processes of the application with use case diagrams, class diagrams, and sequence diagrams using UML 2.0 Enterprise Architecture  • Assisted in designing web application architectures to utilize and work within corporate security guideline.  • Designed and coded 3-tier applications with front-end development in MS VB.NET, C#. NET, ASP.NET, Microsoft SQL Server 2005.  • Designed and coded stored procedures in MS SQL Server 2005.  • Extensively used ADO.NET technology to get advantage of disconnected data programming using technologies like Datasets, Data Adapter, Data Reader, Data Tables, Data View and Data Grid.  • Experienced with Development and Testing of Restful Services based on Specifications.  • Analyzing different user requirements and coming up with specifications for the various database applications  • Created Request/Response classes to abstract the underlying database model from the API payloads.  • Worked in creating different organization content pack, and service packs  • Writing Unit test across the layer including API controllers.  • Used TFS (Team Foundation Server) to share all the work, code, to sort out the exceptions raised during work.  • Provided daily Status Updates on work completed and the progress. Education Master's Skills ADO, DATABASE, ADO.NET, MS SQL SERVER, SQL SERVER, MYSQL, PHP, Javascript, Android, Git Additional Information SKILLS:  Programming Languages: C#.Net (4.0), C# .Net core# with Unity, HTML, T-SQL, JavaScript, SML, PowerShell, R script  Database: MS SQL Server 2016/2017, My SQL, KUSTO, Knowledge on SAP HANA  Operating Systems: Windows Server 2016,2016RS4, XP. Windows 7&8.  Web Technologies: ASP.NET Core 2.0,2.2, ASP.NET MVC 2.X, JavaScript, jQuery, Razor Script, JSON, XML.  IDE Tools: Visual Studio 2015/2017,2019, SQL Server Management Studio, SQL Server BI studio,T-SQL  Infrastructures: AD, DHCP, DNS, Hyper-V Servers, as well as knowledge of server hardware.  Reporting Tools: SQL Server Reporting Service, POWERBI, POWER BI online services, Power Apps, Tableau  Web services: Web APIs/REST, IO, Red fish apis, Microsoft Dynamics 365  Middleware: ADO.NET 4.5, Web Servers.  Concepts: AGILE, SDLC, Deep Learning, Reinforcement Learning, Supervised Learning.  Version Control: Git, Team foundation server Azure Devops.  Azure Azure AD, AZURE key Vault Services, AZURE VM services, Azure Data Lake, Azure Data Factory