Full-Stack Developer Full-Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full-Stack Developer - NORTHWESTERN MUTUAL Warrenville, IL ? Having 3+ years' experience on requirement analysis, design, development, testing, implementation, and support using Object Oriented Methodologies and Java & .NET technologies.  ? Actively participated in every phase of Software Development Life cycle (SDLC) and proficient with software development methods like Agile (scrum) and Waterfall.  ? Expertise in client scripting language and server scripting languages like JavaScript, JQuery, Ajax, Node.JS.  ? Expert in .NET framework with strong understanding of Collections, Multithreading, Event handling, Exception handling, Generics, Entity framework and LINQ expressions.  ? Utilized Java 8 features like Lambda expressions and Stream API for Bulk data operations on Collections which would increase the performance of the Application.  ? Used Node.JS for Node Package Manager (NPM) and Grunt plugin for building the Projects.  ? Experience in Creating and configuring the continuous delivery pipelines for deploying Micro services and lambda functions using Jenkins CI server  ? Strong Experience in database design using TSQL to write Stored Procedures, Functions, Triggers, Indexers and proficiency in writing complex queries, using Oracle, DB2, SQL Server and MySQL.  ? Experience in version control system tools like GIT, Gitlab and SVN.  ? Experience in unit testing the applications using Nunit, JUnit, TDD Framework and RhinoMocks.  ? Worked on implementing full life cycle of software development process (SDLC) in using version control tools like Tortoise SVN, CVS (Concurrent Version System).  ? Hands-on experience working with Continuous Integration (CI) build-automation tools such as Maven, SVN, Gitlab, Jenkins and Apache Ant.  ? Hands on experience with Windows, UNIX and Linux Environments.  ? Having Experience on Shell Scripting and Deployment of Applications in Server.  ? Strong Experience in Mainframe and legacy tools like COBOL, JCL, TSO/Host, CICS and IBM RDz.  ? Excellent written and verbal communication skills, Analytical, Problem Solving skills, strict attention to detail and ability to work independently, lead/work within a team environment. Work Experience Full-Stack Developer NORTHWESTERN MUTUAL - Milwaukee, WI January 2019 to Present • Proficiently working as a Full-Stack Developer in the Managed Investments team using Agile methodologies. Implementing two-week sprints while interacting with Product Owner, off-shore team and business people.  • Working on various vendor packages such as UVT, Unity and MEDM. Changed the Unity's source code written in .NET based on company's requirement.  • Developing/Maintaining double check application using Node.js and React.js. Deployed the application on Azure and migrated the data from DB2 to Azure databases.  • Working with Python as a scripting language to implement the daily scheduled processes. Also, converting legacy SAS programs to Python programs.  • Developing function applications on Azure using JavaScript and Node.js. Working with various types of triggers such as blob trigger, timer trigger, http trigger etc.  • Working with business to constantly make improvements based on client's needs. Collaborating with different teams on the Investments train to resolve support tickets and EOD (End of Day) problems.  • Maintaining the legacy Mainframe programs to support the batch processes. Working with different investments team to do LPS testing to maintain the Funds applications. Software Developer QUAD/GRAPHICS - Sussex, WI February 2018 to December 2018 • Actively worked as a Software developer in the IT Healthcare/Automation team developing, debugging and testing enterprise software solutions using .NET framework in an Agile environment.  • Created and maintained .NET Applications in Microsoft Visual Studio with C#, JavaScript, MVC frameworks, Oracle SQL, Entity frameworks and Microsoft Linq.  • Comprehensively wrote unit tests to test code using NUnit framework and Rhino Mocks.  • Worked on integration of systems of new clients with an active involvement in developing and maintaining client-server applications while on-boarding those clients to the Healthcare solution.  • Worked as an automation developer configuring and creating multiple automated client reports for new clients using Microsoft SQL Server, T-SQL Stored procedures, SSRS and C#. Programmer Analyst THOMSON REUTERS - Brookfield, WI June 2017 to December 2017 • Proficiently worked as a Mainframe Developer in the tax reporting team using Scrum, worked with TSO/HOST, RDz to develop, debug, maintain, and implement multiple programs into production.  • Trained and worked in a Mainframe environment using COBOL, JCL, DB2, ZEKE and MQ.  • Heavily contributed in the first phase of Multicurrency Global Settlement project, analyzed and developed project's initial CICS screens and online programs.  • Collaborated with other teams on the Multicurrency Global Settlement project, gathered requirements, discussed workflows and brainstormed solutions for the project.  • Initiated an independent project to analyze and created a complex mapping conversion process, composed a comprehensive procedural guide for the process to be used by the developers in the future. IT Intern ARORA INFOTECH - Racine, WI June 2016 to December 2016 • Professionally worked as an IT consultant, provided resources based on client's requirements.  • Developed strong communication skills, effectively handled clients, resolved client's issues, communicated with the client on a weekly basis.  • Trained in Quality Assurance and programming, wrote test cases, worked in SQL.  • Gained proficiency in Microsoft office and computing skills, created spreadsheets and presentations for the company. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN - Milwaukee, WI Skills .net, Visual studio, Api, C#, Docker, Html, Javascript, Node.js, Jenkins, Json, Python, Svn, Xml, Database, Mysql, Oracle, Pl/sql, Sql, Cobol, Jira, Java, NET, Node, React, Nodejs, Jquery, Azure (1 year) Additional Information Technical Skills    Languages C, C#, Java, Python, SQL, PL/SQL, Node.js, COBOL, JCL  Mark-up/XML Technologies HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Ajax, React.js, XML, DOM, JSON,  Tools & Framework .NET, LINQ, Spring MVC, NUnit, JUnit, SOAP UI, Apache ActiveMQ. ANT, Maven  Web services SOAP, Restful API  Database Oracle, SQL-Server, MySQL server, Rapid SQL  IDEs Eclipse, Intellij, IBM RDz, Visual Studio, Spyder  Testing Tools/ Others NUnit, Junit and Jira.  Version Control GitHub, Gitlab, Tortoise SVN  Build Tools Ant, Maven, Jenkins, Copado, Autosys  OS & Environment Windows, UNIX, Linux.  Cloud Technologies Microsoft Azure, Docker