Sr. Python Developer Sr. Python <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - TJX Companies Framingham, MA • 7+ years of IT Experience and 5+ years of deep in Python with proven expertise in using new tools and technical developments (libraries used: Beautiful Soup, Jasy, numpy, Scipy, matplotlib, Pickle, PySide, python-twitter, Pandas data frame, networks, urllib2, MySQL dB for database connectivity) to drive .com  • Great Experience in using HTML, CSS, JavaScript HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and other languages from C to Scala and also worked on Framework, JSP, HTML, DHTML and JSTL.  • Used Django Framework in developing web applications to implement the model view control architecture.  • Good Experience of Databases such as MySQL, Microsoft SQL Server, PostgreSQL, SQL/PLSQL concepts & PowerShell.  • Experienced in working with server side technologies including databases, restful API and MVC design patterns.  • Knowledge about setting up Python REST API Frame work using Django.  • Experience with Web Development, Amazon Web Services, Python and the Django framework.  • Very good experience with cloud platforms like Amazon AWS and Google AppEngine.  • Developed web applications in Django Framework's model view control (MVC) architecture.  • Used Python / Django / Flask Framework for developing backend of applications.  • Experience object oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, C++ and Java.  • Design and Develop RESTful web services that will allow a presentation layer to submit query request to Elastic Search.  • Designed automated tools for indexing DB content into Elastic Search indices  • Design and Implement End to End Search service Solution using Elastic Search.  • Build and produce REST service for custom Search service on Elastic Search.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, DJANGO, GTK, QT, C++, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache and Siebel.  • Experienced in MVW frameworks like Django, Angular.js, Java Script, JQuery and Node.js.  • Having working Knowledge of Amazon AWS S3 and Redshift.  • Expert knowledge and experience in Object oriented Design and Programming concepts.  • Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python/PHP) Architecture.  • Used pandas analyze data with Python and used it as the tools in data munging/wrangling.  • Also done the work for creating the Python objects with rows and colums taking the data (like a CSV or TSV file, or a SQL database)  • Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache.  • Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Familiar with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services.  • Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  • Experienced in working with various Python Integrated Development Environments like Net Beans, PyCharm, PyScripter, Spyder, PyStudio, PyDev and Sublime Text.  • Used NumPy as a library for the Python programming language, adding support for large, multi-dimensional arrays.  • Strong expertise in development of web based applications using Python, Django, HTML, XML, Angular JS, CSS, DHTML, JavaScript, JSON and JQuery.  • Effectively involved in handling releases, managing merges and deployments. Good knowledge in working with application server- Apache Tomcat (6.0, 7.0, 8.0).  • Experience in working with Python ORM Libraries including Django ORM.  • Expertise in working with GUI frameworks - PyJamas, Jython.  • Experience in Test Driven Development and Behavior Driven Development methodologies for consulting firms and enterprise projects.  • Good idea about testing tools like Bugzilla and JIRA. Work Experience Sr. Python Developer TJX Companies - Framingham, MA August 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Worked on designing, coding and developing the application in Python using Django MVC.  • Experience in working with Python ORM Libraries including Django ORM,  • Worked on integrating python with Web development tools and Web Services.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Wrote scripts in Python for extracting data from HTML file.  • Utilize PyUnit, the Python Unit test framework, for all Python applications.  • Rewrote existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the JQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Worked on several python packages Numpy, Scypy, Tensorflow etc.  • Proficient in developing Web Services (SOAP, RESTful) in Python using XML, JSON.  • Implemented AWS solutions using EC2, S3, DynamoDB, EBS, Elastic Load Balancer, Auto scaling groups.  • Experience in implementing and working on the python code using shell scripting.  • Implemented REST APIs using Python and Django framework.  • Implemented various micro services.  • Developed web-based applications using Python, Django, XML, CSS, HTML, JavaScript (react.js), Angular4.JS and JQuery.  • Security, Route 53, Direct Connect, IAM, Cloud Formation, AWS OpsWorks (Automate operations), Elastic Beanstalk, AWS S3, Glacier and Cloud Watch Monitoring Management.  • Worked with search business and search team to implement dynamic rule updates to search using elastic search.  • Analysis the logs data and filter required columns by logstash configuration and send it to elastic search.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django view controller and templating language to created user-friendly website interface using react.js.  • Review Requirement, develop technical design documents and create a prototype of the critical business application using JAVA/J2EE Initiated use of HttpUnit, Selenium IDE for testing.  • Worked with J2EE and J2SE technologies including JSP, Java Web Start, and Weblogic.  • Working on Java/J2EE framework APIs like spring, IBatis and Hibernate.  • Used Java/J2EE Design patterns like Business Delegate and Data Transfer Object (DTO) in the project which facilitates clean distribution of roles and responsibilities across various layers of processing.  • Implemented system logging solution using Logstash, Elasticsearch and Kibana.  • Implemented CI/CD process, CIT automated testing, deployment using Hg/GIT, REST API, grble & Puppet.  • Worked on the MySQL migration project to make the system completely independent of the database being used. Used Spring IBatis to implement this.  • Created Oracle database tables, stored procedures, sequences, triggers, views  • Configuring, automation and maintaining build and deployment CI/CD tools Git/GitLab, Docker  • Used REST WebServices for creating rate summary and used WSDL and SOAP messages for getting insurance plans from different module and used XML parsers for data retrieval.    Environment: Python, Django, HTML, CSS, XML, JavaScript, Angular.js, AJAX, React.JS, JQuery, JSON, Dojo, Node.js, Backbone.js, Bootstrap, D3.js, Java, Elasticsearch, Oracle, DynamoDB, Vagrant, PL/SQL, MS-Sql, JDBC, S3, Maven, Web Services, SOAP, REST, Ant, RAD, Agile, Scrum, CVS, Git, GitHub, Linux. Python Developer Key Bank - Cleveland, OH February 2017 to July 2018 Responsibilities:  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web based solution.  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Generated Python Django Forms to Record data of users.  • Utilize PyUnit, the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications.  • Rewrite existing Java application in Python module to deliver certain format of data.  • Developed Python batch processors to consume and produce various feeds.  • Worked on developing internal testing tools which were written in Python. Generated PythonDjango Forms to record data of online users.  • Wrote Python routines to log into the websites and fetch data for selected options.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Developed Business Logic using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templatinglanguage to create a user-friendly website interfacUsed PyQuery for selecting particular DOM elements when parsing HTML.  • Used Wireshark, live http headers, and Fiddler2 debugging proxy to debug the Flash object and help the developer create a functional component.  • Used Jenkins for continuous integration services.  • Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis.  • Used the Django Framework to develop the application.  • Build all database mapping classes using Django models.  • Worked with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services (AWS).  • Involved in AJAX driven application by invoking web services/API and parsing the JSONresponse.  • Developed internal auxiliary web apps using Python Flask framework with Angular.js andBootstrap CSS / HTML framework.  • Set up rules and policies with a Node.js/Python back end.  • Developed complex web, middleware, and back end systems in Python, SQL and Perl forLinux and Windows.  • Created a Git repository and added the project to GitHub.  • Utilized Agile process and JIRA issue management to track sprint cycles.  • Interfacing with supervisors, QA Teams and production to ensure production deadlines are met.    Environment: Python, Java, PyUnit, Pandas, HTML, DHTML, AJAX, CSS, JavaScript, Django, Jenkins, Amazon Web Services (AWS), JSON, REST, Angular.js, Bootstrap, Node.js, Git, JIRA, Perl, SQL, Agile, windows and Linux. Python Developer ADLINK Technology Pvt, Ltd Bengaluru, Karnataka September 2013 to December 2015 Responsibilities:  • Created backend database T-SQL stored procedures and Jasper Reports.  • Created a Git repository and added the project to GitHub.  • Added Excel-Builder to download the Tabular data in Excel format using React.  • Used Python modules such as requests, urllib, urllib2 for web crawling.  • Used other packages such as Beautifulsoup for data parsing.Worked on writing and as well as read data from csv and excel file formats.  • Implemented the Drag and Drop functionality using React - Dragabble  • Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis of data stored in Amazon Redshift using SQLAlchemy.  • Worked on JavaScript MVC Framework like Angular.js.  • Worked with Open stack Command-line client.  • Worked on resulting reports of the application and Tableau reports.  • Performed QA testing on the application.  • Held meetings with client and worked all alone for the entire project with limited help from the client.  • Utilize PyUnit, the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications.  • Used React -Autocomplete for creating google maps location search on the webpage.  • Exported/Imported data between different data sources using SQL Server Management Studio.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Working with Database procedures, Triggers, PL/SQL statements for data retrievingand also for migration purpose.    Environment: Python 2.7 PL/SQL C++, Redshift, XML, Agile (SCRUM), PyUnit, MYSQL, Apache, CSS, MySQL, DHTML, HTML, JavaScript, Angular.js, Shell Scripts, Git, Linux, Unix and Windows. Software Developer (python-web developer) Acalvio Software Pvt Ltd - Bengaluru, Karnataka September 2012 to July 2013 Responsibilities:  • Developed web pages using JSP, HTML, DHTML and JSTL.  • Involved in Unit integration, bug fixing, acceptance testing with test cases, Code reviews.  • Interaction with customers and identified System Requirements and developed Software Requirement Specifications.  • Implemented Java design patterns wherever required.  • Involved in development, maintenance, implementation and support of the System.  • Involved in initial project setup and guidelines.  • Designed & developed the application using Spring Framework  • Developed and modified database objects as per the requirements.  • Designed DAO objects for accessing RDBMS  • Developed test cases for Unit testing using JUnit and performed integration and system testing.  • Involved in coding for the presentation layer using Struts Framework, JSP, HTML, DHTML and JSTL.  • Closely worked and supported the creation of database schema objects (tables, stored procedures, and triggers) using Oracle SQL/PLSQL.  • Work with team of developers on python applications for management.  • Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  • Expertise in writing Constraints, Indexes, Views, Stored Procedures, Cursors, Triggers and User Defined function.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Performed Web application development using Python Django 1.3, Flask, MongoDB, JavaScript, AJAX, HTML, XML and template languages.    Environment: RDBMS, JSP, HTML, DHTML, JSTL, JSP, HTML, DHTML and JSTL, Oracle SQL/PLSQL.: Python, Linux, XHTML, SVN, CSS, AJAX, Bugzilla, JavaScript, Apache Web Server. System Administrator SV Info Tech - Bengaluru, Karnataka September 2011 to July 2012 Responsibilities:  • Make Dashboard with reports as per college requirements for different education portal.  • Coordinated with field staff and customers to diagnose problems and recommend possible solutions.  • Involved in development of Inventory Management System and Patient Management System.  • Analyze requirement and make database design and modeling.  • Developed and implemented database objects such as tables, indexes, constraints, views, trigger to support modules of Edusec.  • Configure Sms, Email and database backup and scheduling with cron jobs.  • Write development and user guide documents. Education Bachelor's Skills Django, Git, Html, Bootstrap, Perl Additional Information Technical Skills:    • J2EE Technologies JSP, Java Servlets, JNDI, JDBC and JMS.  • Version Control SVN, CVS, Git, GitHub.  • Analytic Tools JMP PRO, SAS, Tableau, UCI NET, Node XL  • Application servers Apache Tomcat, JBoss.  • Frameworks Django, Zope, PyJamas, Python, Cloudera (CDH 5.5.2), CSS Bootstrap SDETs  • Web Technologies HTML, CSS, DOM, SAX, Java Script, JQuery, AJAX, XML, AngularJS.  • Programming Languages Python, C, PERL, SQL and PL/SQL.  • Databases Oracle (9i, 10g, 11g), My SQL, Apache Cassandra, MongoDB.  • Operating Systems Windows, Red hat Linux 4.x/5.x/6.x, Ubuntu.  • Protocols TCP/IP, HTTP/HTTPS, SOAP, SMTP.  • Deployment Tools Heroku, Amazon EC2.  • Testing Tools Bugzilla and JIRA.