Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Webster, NY Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Developer Second Avenue Learning - Rochester, NY June 2011 to Present Second Avenue Learning focuses on building software solutions for e-learning from pre-k to corporate level users. As a software developer, was tasked to work on numerous projects in a variety of different programming languages and environments. Works closely with a development team that include, other software developers, digital artist, learning designers, and quality assurance analysts. Had to communicate regularly with clients to ensure their needs are being met. Often acted as the Lead developer on projects, which required giving guidance to junior developers or interns to help them overcome any development obstacles they may be facing. Software Developer (Contractor) Second Avenue Learning - Rochester, NY December 2011 to June 2012 As Contractor was hired to work on an online train course build with Lectora software and exported as a SCORM package. Lab Teaching Assistant University of Rochester - Rochester, NY December 2010 to May 2011 This lab session helps student gain a better understanding of constructing analog circuits. Teaching assistant help students during the lab session when questions arise. Other responsibility include meeting once a week with professor and other teaching assistants to review upcoming lab and grade student lab reports. Research Assistant URMC Strong Memorial Hospital - Rochester, NY May 2010 to May 2011 This lab focused on developing ways to track and display pain felt by premature infants during their time spend in the Neonatal Intensive Care Unit. As assistant, designed and constructed sensors and circuits used to measure and process physiological signals associated with pain. Other responsibilities included keeping inventory or components used in the device and writing protocols on how to construct and use the device for future clinical trials.  Education Bachelor's in Biomedical Engineering University of Rochester - Rochester, NY September 2007 to May 2011 High school or equivalent Pittsford Sutherland High School - Pittsford, NY September 2003 to June 2007 Skills Javascript (6 years), PHP (4 years), Android (1 year), MySQL (5 years), Git (3 years), HTML 5 (6 years), CSS (6 years), Jquery (6 years), C# (4 years), Python (Less than 1 year), IOS (1 year), JSON (5 years), Nodejs (4 years), Unity3D (4 years) Assessments Critical Thinking — Expert June 2019 Using logic to solve problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/aupsrhw7u9jkkhpc Data Analysis — Expert July 2019 Measures a candidate's skill in interpreting and producing graphs, identifying trends, and drawing justifiable conclusions from data. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/zfygzvd7c71zddyn Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information As someone who studied biomedical engineering and not computer science, every programming language I know, I have taught myself. What every skills I may currently lack I know, though experience, that I will be able to learn what I need to get the job done. I am the type of person who loves to learn new skills and challenge myself in finding the best possible ways to solve problems.