Developer Analyst <span class="hl">Developer</span> Analyst Developer Analyst - Wipro • Having 7 years of IT experience in developing business applications using Java/ J2EE technologies.  • Proficient in understanding business requirements.  • Having good knowledge of Object Oriented Programming.  • Good experience on developing applications using Core Java, JDBC, Servlets and JSP.  • Having good working knowledge in Spring Framework.  • Having good experience in developing application components using Spring Boot.  • Having good working knowledge in Hibernate Framework.  • Having good experience in writing complex SQL queries and Stored Procedures.  • Has good knowledge in SOAP and RESTful web services.  • Having good experience in Defect Fixing.  • Involved in preparing Linux shell scripts for monitoring and automation.  • Involved in development of build and deploy scripts. Work Experience Developer Analyst Wipro March 2014 to Present Developer Analyst Alight Solutions March 2014 to Present Project Title: myHR  Duration: From Mar-2014 to till date  Tools and technology used: Java, JSP, Servlets, Spring, Hibernate, Oracle,  JBoss, Linux  Team Size: 8  Role: Developer Analyst    Description:  Description:  myHR is a HRMS application, which allows an employee to view/edit information like personal, compensation details, job and career details, etc.  This application simplifies employer to maintain their work by providing enriched look and feel. The application segregates the accessibility of modules based on the role of the logged in user like manager, employee, HR.  An employer has the following modules in order to maintain their direct reports,  • Transfer  • Job change  • Suspension, Termination  • Promotion  • Leave application  • Acquisition  • Taleo  All together integrated in single application to provide user friendly and enriched window to an employer to maintain their employees.    Roles and Responsibilities:  • Understanding business requirements.  • Involved in the GUI Design, business logic development and Implementation of modules.  • Created unit and system test cases for the application and executed the test cases.  • Developing classes to interact with database using Hibernate.  • Developing of Modules using Spring Framework.  • Involved in Defect Fixing.  • Involved in product reviews for new clients.  • Having ability to handle clients individually.  • Designed and developed AEM building blocks including Templates, Components, Dialogs, Widgets, and Workflows.  • Involved in preparing Linux shell scripts for monitoring and automation.    Project: 2 Software Engineer Polaris Financial Technology Ltd March 2012 to February 2014 Project: 1 Software Engineer Reserve Bank of India March 2012 to February 2014 Project Title: Core Banking System (CBS)  Duration: From Mar-2012 to Feb-2014  Tools and technology used: Java, JSP, Servlets, Spring, Hibernate, Oracle, web  Logic Application Server.  Team Size: 6  Role: Software Engineer    Description:  RBI manages the governments banking transactions. Like individuals, banks and governments need a banker to carry out their financial transactions in an efficient and effective manner, including the raising of resources from the public. As a banker to the central government, the Reserve Bank maintains its accounts, receives money into and makes payments out of these accounts and facilitates the internal transfer of government funds. Also act as the banker to those state governments that have entered into an agreement with RBI.    Public Accounts Module: Manage the day-to-day aspects of our Government's banking operations. The Reserve Bank also appoints commercial banks as its agents and uses their branches for greater access to the government's customers.  Deposit Account Module: RBI acts as a supervisor to all banks in India. All banks in the country should have accounts with RBI including foreign banks. Supervises and manages MICR, NEFT and ECS clearing. Maintains internal accounts of the bank including preparation of weekly statement of affairs of the bank and the annual profit and loss balance sheet of the bank.  Loans and advances Module: The Reserve Bank provides short-term loans and advances to banks/financial institutions, when necessary, to facilitate lending for specified purposes.  Public debt office Module: Provide depository services for government securities for institutions and service government loans.    Roles and Responsibilities:  • Understanding business requirements.  • Developing business logic using Java/Jee technologies.  • Responsible for carrying Unit Testing.  • Developing classes to interact with database using Hibernate API.  • Developing of Modules using Spring Framework.  • Involved in writing Stored Procedures in PL/SQL.  • Involved in Defect Fixing.    (Madhukar Reddy) Education Bachelors in Computer Applications Sri Venkateswara University Masters in Computer Applications Visvesvaraya Technological University - Bangalore, KARNATAKA, IN Additional Information Technical Skills:  • Operating Systems: Windows, Linux  • Languages: Java/J2EE, HTML, XML, SQL, JavaScript  • J2EE Technologies: JDBC, Servlets, JSP  • Frame works: Spring, Spring Boot, Hibernate  • IDEs: Eclipse  • Servers: JBoss, Tomcat, Web Logic  • Database: Oracle  • Tools: ANT, Maven, AEM, Jenkins, SVN