Software Engineer <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Software Engineer Reston, VA Work Experience Software Engineer Medallia November 2017 to December 2018 As a member of the Admin Suite Configuration Interface team, built Restful Services that allow our customers to configure users and permissions in the Medallia product. Our APIs are built with a layered architecture using a domain driven design approach for our business and engineering teams to discuss the domain in a ubiquitous language.  Key Accomplishments  ? Developed several REST endpoints, supporting all HTTP verbs such as GET, POST, PUT, DELETE, and PATCH  ? Built new APIs adhering to strong quality standards and response time standards meeting SLA requirements deprecating legacy code  ? Presented upcoming API development, providing detailed business logic needed for completion to our internal development teams Software Engineer Booz Allen Hamilton July 2016 to October 2017 Helped support the Department of Homeland Security Immigration and Customs Enforcement as an Engineer on the Data Warehouse team. Developed solutions for both Java search application and Oracle database allowing special agents the ability to search for critical data needed in their day to day job.  Key Accomplishments  ? Mentored incoming Senior Software Engineers, transferring domain knowledge needed to understand the Immigration and Customs Enforcement application and processes  ? Created data models and built several ETLs to ingest data into new models allowing agents to store and view sensitive information  ? Created mappers to ingest data into Java objects, allowing data to searched through the web service  ? Enforced Test Driven Development, identifying gaps in our application through software metrics Student Developer Shippensburg University May 2015 to May 2016 Developed and modified open source VuFind application, helping all keystone state school libraries use a system to search for books.  Key Accomplishments  ? Wrote selenium tests to resolve issues where users were being directed incorrectly in the library system  ? Updated HTML/CSS with bootstrap for a more responsive design allowing users to view site no matter the size of their screen  ? Transferred librarian needs to system domain, solving backend environmental problems they faced Education Bachelors in Software Engineering in Software Engineering Shippensburg University 2012 to 2016 Skills Git, Json, Python, Software development, Xml, Java Links https://github.com/MatthewCroft