Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer Pompano Beach, FL Results driven developer recognized for leadership skills in fast-paced, demanding environments. Thrives in customer focused, multi-site environments. Proven ability to provide solutions that boost productivity and efficiency across the organization. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Developer SAFCO - Fort Lauderdale, FL January 2015 to Present • Advanced expertise in MySQL and SQL. Position requires use of complex queries, stored procedures and database optimization. Data Warehouse consists of millions of rows of aggregate loan and financial data.    • Advanced experience in SAP Crystal Reports 2013 and SAP BOE. Position requires creation and management of over 200 reports using advanced formulas and custom queries that provides the company insight on business fluctuations, loan and account information.    • Developed RESTful API and SOAP API’s in JavaScript and PHP that integrate with numerous vendors such as payment processors (ACI), predictive dialers (Five9), loan origination systems (DEFI) and loan management systems (Nortridge).    • Responsible for the development and administration of SAFCO's Salesforce platform, which involves custom API integrations using JavaScript and Pentaho's ETL tool enabling the Sales Team to view originated Loans and account information and other custom objects.    • Red Hat Linux experience, responsible for scheduling cron jobs, creating shell scripts to consume and parse XML and JSON data from our many vendors and data warehouse.    • Manages and automates integrations between our loan origination system (DEFI) and Salesforce to track finance applications and maintain accurate reporting.    • Developed application which communicates real time transaction information from our payment processor (ACI) to our data warehouse by using a PHP middleware application. The subsequent data is used in reporting, and SAFCO's loan servicing department.    • Responsible for all aspects of company and consumer facing websites. Safcopayments.com. Using Laravel, JQuery and Webpack. Developed functionality including Single Sign On, integration with a payment processor to allow consumers to make payments,the ability for customers to view their financial statements online, various other bug fixes and enhancements. Education Associate of Science degree in Computer Science Palm Beach State College - Palm Beach County, FL January 2018 to June 2020 New Horizons Computer Learning Centers - West Palm Beach, FL Skills JavaScript (2 years), Linux (2 years), MySQL (2 years), Crystal Reports (2 years), Salesforce (3 years), PHP (2 years), React (2 years), Laravel (3 years), XSLT, Apache Additional Information TECHNICAL SUMMARY  Software: Salesforce, Microsoft Office, DEFI, MySql Workbench, Crystal  Reports, SAP  Operating and Network Windows Server 2008, Windows Server 2012, Windows Vista,  Operating Systems: Windows 7, Windows XP, Red Hat Linux  Programming: JavaScript, PHP, NodeJS, HTML, CSS, MySQL, REST, XML,  JSON, cPanel, API, Bash scripts, Shell, Python