Application Development Analyst Application Development Analyst Application Development Analyst Iselin, NJ Work Experience Application Development Analyst Burlington Coat Factory - Burlington, NJ June 2015 to January 2019 Refined the communication layer for an in-house API client library using Java's HttpUrlConnection and cURL. Parsed returned JSON data to Java POJOs using Jersey for the API client library.  ? Responsible for designing and implementing the underlying hierarchical data structure for the in-house application.  ? Refined and remodeled the application framework to overcome Java 1.7's lack of default interface behavior.  ? Developed components adhering to business requirements with Java Swing & JDBC using the MVC pattern.  ? Raised and resolved defects in the in-house AMS application on a day to day basis. Software Developer Co-op PEFServices - West Orange, NJ June 2017 to October 2017 Worked closely with the engineering team to develop the back-end of a web application to compare and output large amounts of investor data from and to Microsoft Excel using PHP, PHP- Excel and JavaScript.  ? Responsible for maintaining existing system and implementing new functionalities using technologies such as Jira, Hibernate and Spring. IT Help-Desk Co June 2017 to October 2017 Managed day to day task for the IT Department including imagining desktops/laptops.  ? Installed, troubleshoot and updated applications related to Accounting.  ? Maintained and updated IT inventory for all hardware.  ? Maintained and troubleshoot a network of desktops, laptops and routers. Education B.S in Information Technology in Information Technology New Jersey Institute of Technology - Newark, NJ May 2018 Skills Git, Groovy, Php, J2ee, Java, Jdbc, Mysql, Sql, Maven, Linux, Application Support, Production Support, Sql Server Links https://github.com/kr255 Additional Information Computer Skills  Java(Core, Swing, JDBC, HttpUrlConnection), Groovy, PHP, SQL(Toad)/MySql, Maven, Git(GitBash, EGit) J2EE    Operating Systems  Linux (Ubuntu, CentOS, Ubuntu Server), Windows (7, 8.1, 10)