Sr. Software Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Software Developer - Department of Family Protective Services Austin, TX Around 6 years of hands on experience and, worked in some phases of software development life cycle from requirements gathering to the production and successfully implemented some projects with responsibilities to obtain entry level position or internship to enhance my skills in the field of software and management    TECHNOLOGY PORTFOLIO:  Java and C/C++: • Java, SQL, J2EETechnologies Servlets, JSP, JDBC, EJB, Hibernate, Mail, JMS, JTS, C, C++, Frameworks Struts, Spring, Spring MVC, Spring boot, Web-Services (SOAP REST, RESTful, UDDI and WSDL).  • Amazon Web Services (EC2, S3, Cloud Formation templates, SQS messaging, RDS environments).  • Micro-Services • IDEs Eclipse, NetBeans, TeamSite, SQL Developer.  • Apache Tomcat, WebLogic, WebSphere and Glassfish.  • Databases Oracle, MySQL, SQL Server, SQLite, RDBMS.  • ANT, Gradle, Maven and continuous integration using Jenkins Build.  Web Technologies: • Web Technologies HTML, CSS, XML, JQuery, JqGrid, JavaScript, Ajax, AnjularJS, NodeJS, ResetJS, BootStrap • Used jQuery selectors, function chaining and client-side event handling.  • Implemented jQuery plug-ins of Simple Modal, BlockUI and jGrowl to improve application usability.  • XML technologies: XSL, XQuery, XSD, XPath, XSLT, DTD and parsers like DOM and SAX.  • Code HTML with table less CSS Layout via floating DIV tags.  • Created lean reusable CSS classes and cross-browser HTML. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Software Developer Department of Family Protective Services - Austin, TX January 2018 to Present IMPACT is the main application DFPS uses to record case information about the children and adults the agency protects. DFPS uses IMPACT to document all stages of service of a case, including when someone reports abuse, neglect, or exploitation and when those cases are investigated. IMPACT stands for "Information Management Protecting Adults and Children in Texas." DFPS is updating the system during a multi-year project called IMPACT Modernization. Statewide Intake is to Redesign the part of the system DFPS uses to record phoned-in reports alleging abuse, neglect and exploitation.    Responsibilities: • Support of the following deliverables • Project Management Plan.  • User Acceptance Testing (UAT) Report.  • Prototype and POC.  • Requirements Design and Implementation Deliverables.  • Application Design Specification.  • Translate concepts into wireframes and mockups that lead to intuitive user experiences.  • Facilitate the clients' visions by researching, conceiving, wire framing, Visual design, sketching, prototyping, and mocking up user experiences, responsive design.  • Design, document and deliver wireframes, user stories, user journeys, and mockups optimized for a wide range of devices and interfaces.  • Identify design problems and devise elegant solutions.  • Analyzed user/business requirements, design and implementation plans.  • Involved in infrastructure change and upgrade of java version (Java 1.8) and Web Sphere Application Server 9 and Apache Tomcat 9.  • Designed and developed web pages for user and admin perspective modules using JSP, HTML and CSS.  • Developed and implemented Spring framework, Dependency Injection features to assemble and configuring loosely coupled components.  • Good experience in JavaScript (jQuery) and AJAX calls to send request and get response through web pages faster in time.  • Experience in Agile development through SDLC process and attended daily stand-up call meetings and team meetings.  • Worked extensively in writing SQL queries and procedures for retrieving the data from Oracle database.  • Used Hibernate to map the properties or objects to the tables of database in the backend.  • Developed J2EE Web applications on WebSphere Application Server using MVC patterns with Spring Framework • Experience in developing SOAP Web Services using JAX-WS, JAXB, JAX-RPC and WSDL. Have also designed and developed REST interfaces in Java.  • Experience in developing finance service application and proactively tested application using ALM tool and test using JUnit and JMockit framework test cases.  • Used SVN for version management & Maven for building the application.  • Used Jenkins for continuous integration and Maven for building the EAR file.  • Having Good Knowledge with JIRA. Can able to track and update the tasks using JIRA.  • Using Spring JDBC to connect with database and making simple queries.  • Migrated Ant projects to Maven projects.  • Managed multiple AWS accounts with multiple VPC's for both production and non-prod where primary objectives included automation, build out, integration and cost control.  • Implemented the project using the Spring Framework (used Spring IOC and Dependency Injection, Spring MVC). Software Developer Verizon Wireless - Township of Warren, NJ September 2016 to December 2017 Verizon Wireless is the largest wireless communication company which offers employees to play a critical role in contributing to their mission in an environment that's collaborative, performance-based and challenging. They can develop and writing client-side or server-side code for developing dynamic web applications.    Projects in Verizon:  Project 1: Verizon Gift Card  Migrated Verizon Gift Card Project to Spring Boot and Microservices and deployed on AWS instances. Implemented API's like Gift Card Activation, Redemption, Voids, Virtual Activation, Deactivation, Transaction History, Balance Inquiry using Spring Boot and Eureka, Registry and Zuul are used for load balancing and creating set of instances and deployed on AWS EC2 instances.  Project 2: Verizon Quote  A sales quote allows a prospective buyer to see what costs would be involved for the work they would like to have done. Many businesses provide services that cannot have an upfront price, as the costs involved can vary. This can be due to the materials that would be used (which can differ depending on the individual needs of the customer), and the manpower that would be necessary. Therefore, it is common practice for these companies to provide the potential customer with a quote (or estimate) of how much it should cost. This quotation will be made by the company using the information that the potential customer provides, regarding the relevant elements that may affect the price. A quote can help the prospective buyer when deciding which company to use, and which services they are looking for.  Project 3: Verizon Catalog Services  Verizon Catalog services will maintain all the information of devices and accessories. It is the common module for all the applications of Verizon. Migrated it from ATG to Spring Boot, Microservices & AWS and built it as an individual module, so that everyone can use it and avoided code duplications.    Responsibilities: • Provided systems administration support for Java systems including server and workstation upgrades, backup and disaster recovery monitoring, user account setup and security administration.  • Interface with multiple client teams to access business objectives and present technical issues.  • Work with the client to define a functional specification that meets business requirements.  • Represent the client's objectives during daily agile scrum meetings with the development team.  • Communicate and work effectively with fellow developers to implement technical solutions for the client.  • Exception detection and thread rescheduling in a multi-thread Java application.  • Handled large data set (file and data in database) using multi-threading.  • Responsible for troubleshooting and fixing service outages.  • Responsible for identifying and fixing functional bugs.  • Involved in developing code for obtaining bean references in spring framework and Used Dependency Injection along with Inversion of Control (IOC). Developed UI navigation using HTML and Spring MVC architecture.  • Designed and developed various modules of the application with J2EE design architecture and frameworks like Spring MVC architecture and Spring Bean Factory using IOC, AOP concepts.  • Designing and coding of Action classes and Business Layer and DAO Classes and wired them using Spring Framework.  • Hands on experience in writing JUnit Test cases and deploying application using Tomcat and testing in Postman.  • Having Good Knowledge with JIRA. Can able to track and update the tasks using JIRA.  • Using Spring JDBC to connect with database and making simple queries.  • Migrated Ant projects to Maven projects.  • Used SOAP UI and PostMan tools for testing the services.  • Designed and built document tracking/workflow system with HTML, CSS and JavaScript using jQuery, JSON and a REST architecture.  • Involved in the designing of APIS which should follow the Restful web services best practices.  • Used Log4j framework to log/track application.  • Involved in the discussion with business and the solution team to break the existing monolithic application CIDB into the microservices.  • Netflix OSS stack (Hystrix, Eureka, Ribbon etc) for circuit breaker, service discovery and load balancing.  • Involved in Code Review, finding bugs to ensure efficient and standard application development • Worked on Next Bill Summary (NBS) Implementation to REP readout for local orders which exactly matches with customer copy in various channels in Verizon.  • Eliminated triggering multiple NBS emails for the same customer by storing the values in the session and user Profile.  • Perform code refactoring of some components and fixed defects.  • Communicate with the project team throughout all stages of design and development.  • Actively involved, analyzed, resolved production trouble tickets, regression issues.  • Worked on several enhancements for CARE Channel.  • Participated in requirements gathering discussions.  • Used Redis and Ehcache as cache management techniques.  • Used Elastic Search, Kibana & Logging console to maintain Logs and resolve many production tickets.  • Wrote Mockito & JUnit Test processors as part of Unit testing.  • Developed the application using Spring Boot, Zuul Gateway, Eureka Server and JDK 1.8.  • Used Spring JPA queries to log audit tables in Gift Card Migration, involved in writing JPA Named Queries, SQL Queries to fetch data from database. Sr Java/J2EE Developer Dex Media - Waltham, MA January 2015 to August 2016 Dex Media Inc. is a print and digital marketing company which offers employees to play a critical role in contributing to their mission in an environment that's collaborative, performance-based and challenging. They can develop and enjoys writing client-side or server-side code for developing dynamic web applications.    Responsibilities: • Developing business tier using Servlets, Java Controller, Struts technologies.  • Developed many JSP pages, used JSON plug-in for asynchronous communication.  • In architecting, various Business Layer and Data Management components of multi-tiered web-based system.  • Involved in developing code for obtaining bean references in spring framework and Used Dependency Injection along with Inversion of Control (IOC). Developed UI navigation using JSP and Spring MVC architecture.  • Built screens with Spring MVC, JSPs, CSS, Dojo and custom JavaScript.  • Managed multiple AWS accounts with multiple VPC's for both production and non-prod where primary objectives included automation, build out, integration and cost control.  • Implemented the project using the Spring Framework (used Spring IOC and Dependency Injection, Spring MVC).  • Managed and supported AWS security related issues with S3 policies for user access support for all other AWS products such as S3, RDS, Elastic Load Balancing. Development using Java, JSP and Servlets on WSAD.  • Research and development on scalable Linux deployments on AWS via Docker.  • Integrated Hibernate ORM framework with spring framework for data persistence and transaction management.  • Worked on Persistence layer from simple DAO to Spring/Hibernate.  • Designing and coding of Action classes and Business Layer and DAO Classes and wired them using Spring Framework.  • Responsible for design and developing Persistence classes using Hibernate, and Spring JDBC Template frameworks to save data in database tables. Developed Web Services using XML messages that use SOAP.  • Redesigned Web front-end to scheduling system using HTML, CSS, and JavaScript, with the jQuery library.  • Designed and built document tracking/workflow system with HTML, CSS and JavaScript using jQuery, JSON and a REST architecture.  • Created and executed Business Logic Layer, Data Access Layer through DAO (Data Access Object) pattern and DTO (Data Transfer Object) pattern. Used CLI library as a best practice to achieve code optimization in groovy.  • Designed and developed various modules of the application with J2EE design architecture and frameworks like Spring MVC architecture and Spring Bean Factory using IOC, AOP concepts.  • Developed Struts Action and Form classes to access Java Beans and UI and deployed various Sessions beans.  • Wrote complex queries and mapped database views using DAO in Oracle.  • Development of EJB's, Servlets and JSP files for implementing Business rules and Security options using WebSphere App Server and Configured the web server interfaces, session management, virtual hosts and for WebSphere • Participated in Functional Document reviews and created Technical documents.  • Built data access subsystems using Hibernate and Spring against stored procedures on a Oracle database • Resolved database inconsistency with better design and efficient SQL queries. Systems Engineer L&T ltd May 2013 to November 2014 L&T is an engineering company that operates the global engineering, Research and Development. It offers design, development and testing services for individual products, medical devices, transportation, aerospace, telecom and process industries. Services include consulting, design, development, testing, maintenance and to-market integration services.    Responsibilities: • Developing business tier using Servlets, Java Controller, Struts technologies.  • Developed many JSP pages, used JSON plug-in for asynchronous communication.  • In architecting, various Business Layer and Data Management components of multi-tiered web-based system.  • Involved in developing code for obtaining bean references in spring framework and Used Dependency Injection along with Inversion of Control (IOC). Developed UI navigation using JSP and Spring MVC architecture.  • Built screens with Spring MVC, JSPs, CSS, Dojo and custom JavaScript.  • Managed multiple AWS accounts with multiple VPC's for both production and non-prod where primary objectives included automation, build out, integration and cost control.  • Implemented the project using the Spring Framework (used Spring IOC and Dependency Injection, Spring MVC).  • Managed and supported AWS security related issues with S3 policies for user access support for all other AWS products such as S3, RDS, Elastic Load Balancing. Development using Java, JSP and Servlets on WSAD.  • Research and development on scalable Linux deployments on AWS via Docker.  • Integrated Hibernate ORM framework with spring framework for data persistence and transaction management.  • Worked on Persistence layer from simple DAO to Spring/Hibernate.  • Designing and coding of Action classes and Business Layer and DAO Classes and wired them using Spring Framework.  • Responsible for design and developing Persistence classes using Hibernate, and Spring JDBC Template frameworks to save data in database tables. Developed Web Services using XML messages that use SOAP.  • Redesigned Web front-end to scheduling system using HTML, CSS, and JavaScript, with the jQuery library.  • Designed and built document tracking/workflow system with HTML, CSS and JavaScript using jQuery, JSON and a REST architecture.  • Created and executed Business Logic Layer, Data Access Layer through DAO (Data Access Object) pattern and DTO (Data Transfer Object) pattern. Used CLI library as a best practice to achieve code optimization in groovy.  • Designed and developed various modules of the application with J2EE design architecture and frameworks like Spring MVC architecture and Spring Bean Factory using IOC, AOP concepts.  • Developed Struts Action and Form classes to access Java Beans and UI and deployed various Sessions beans.  • Wrote complex queries and mapped database views using DAO in Oracle.  • Development of EJB's, Servlets and JSP files for implementing Business rules and Security options using WebSphere App Server and Configured the web server interfaces, session management, virtual hosts and for WebSphere • Participated in Functional Document reviews and created Technical documents.  • Built data access subsystems using Hibernate and Spring against stored procedures on a Oracle database • Resolved database inconsistency with better design and efficient SQL queries. Education Bachelor's Skills AWS (5 years), CSS. (5 years), database. (5 years), HTML (5 years), J2EE (5 years)