Web Engineer Web Engineer Web Engineer Metuchen, NJ ? 6 years of professional experience in Front-end Web Applications development in field of Internet, E-Commerce, Marketing, and Finance.  ? Deep experience in Agile development methodologies such as Scrum and tools like Jira.  ? Deep experience with HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  ? Strong knowledge about React.js and Node.js  ? Strong understanding of popular JavaScript Frameworks such as React.js, Redux and Vue.js.  ? Proficiency in DOM manipulation with native JavaScript and jQuery.  ? Expertise in Functional Programming and Advanced JavaScript programming.  ? Expertise in designing Responsive Web Applications with CSS Media Queries and frameworks like Bootstrap.  ? Working on JavaScript frameworks and libraries, like React, Redux.  ? Familiar with the ecosystem of React and Redux, expertise in libraries relative to React.js and Redux, such as React-redux, React-router4, Redux-thunk, Redux-saga and Styled-components.  ? Strong knowledge of AJAX and REST APIs, Promise and Async/Await to connect, fetch data from and send data to the server.  ? Hands-on experience in working with third-party APIs, like Google APIs.  ? Involved in using React.js with ES6 features to develop reusable components and using Redux to enable predictable state change and improve maintainability.  ? Expertise in Unit Test and JavaScript library for testing like Jest and Enzyme  ? Experienced with Relational databases like MySQL and NoSQL databases like MongoDB.  ? Working experience of version control tool with Git and JavaScript module manager NPM.  ? Experience in using module bundler, such as Webpack.  ? Some knowledge and understanding of TypeScript.  ? Some knowledge of Backend programming languages and frameworks such as Python Django and Node.js Express. Work Experience Web Engineer Spotify - New York, NY December 2017 to June 2019 Description: I joined one of the frontend teams of Spotify to develop an internal data visualization platform for displaying different categories of data. We used React.js as our front-end and Django as the backend framework.  Responsibilities:  ? Used Styled Components to develop CSS templates in JavaScript file.  ? Implemented on the search feature and improved performance using Debounce and Throttling.  ? Involved in writing application level code to interact with REST APIs using AJAX, JSON and Axios module.  ? Improved reusability and maintainability by using High-Order-Components.  ? Used Redux to manage global state and easily for components to use in different levels.  ? Used Redux Middleware to improve the performance, such as redux-thunk and redux-saga.  ? Used Webpack as the module bundler to bundle JavaScript files for usage in a browser, along with NPM to manage module files.  ? Used React-Router for navigation and routing.  ? Used Git as the version control tool.  ? Wrote Test Cases with Jest and Enzyme  ? Worked closely with the QA team in resolving defects.  ? Used Scrum as the Agile development method and worked with JIRA workflow to manage the Agile process and communicated with data scientists in the backend team. Software Engineer Wework - San Francisco, CA February 2016 to November 2017 Description: The We Company started as a platform for creators in providing members space, community, and services that enable them to do what they love and craft their life's work. I joined one of the frontend teams of the internal design system to transfer a jQuery-based project to a React-based project.  Responsibilities:  ? Converted jQuery-based application to React-based application.  ? First, copy code and paste into React Component with as few changes as possible. Toggle Classes and State manually with jQuery.  ? Then, converted smaller components and manipulate DOM with React.js.  ? Friendly with different sizes of devices, upon applying responsive web design using CSS Media Queries and Bootstrap Grid System.  ? Worked on Search Engine Optimization with multiple metadata descriptions.  ? Created high-quality reusable, maintainable components and features using React.js, like list items and checkbox options.  ? Created highly reusable CSS codes for different lists and different items.  ? Served pages with content available in multiple languages with head link support.  ? Worked with React router to implement the different content updates without refresh the DOM and the whole page. Made multiple-page possible on a single-page.  ? Applied ES6 promise to deal with asynchronous progress, especially for data fetching. And added a loading image when loading.  ? Made the website responsive using CSS Media Query and viewport metadata tag for mobile browsers.  ? Created cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant CSS based page layouts.  ? Added Html semantic tags and Labeling to make web content more accessible for people with disabilities.  ? Used Webpack as the module bundler to bundle JavaScript files for usage in the browser. Web Developer V Group Inc - Princeton, NJ October 2014 to January 2016 Description: V Group is IT Services and Products Company aiming for growth in multiple industry sectors through multiple means while maintaining structure, stability and core values. Current business groups include e-commerce, Digital, Professional services, IT projects and Products.  Our project is to build an e-commerce platform.  Responsibilities:  ? Mainly responsible for building the list, maintaining and updating according to user actions.  ? Created and optimized graphic prototype websites, applications interfaces using HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3 and JavaScript.  ? Used jQuery events to manipulate the elements depends on user interactions.  ? Implemented and Maintained the shopping cart interface.  ? Created cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant CSS based page layouts.  ? Improved SEO (Search Engine Optimization) by using HTML metadata. Web Developer ManageGO - Brooklyn, NY February 2014 to September 2014 Description: ManageGO is a platform for easy rent payments for tenants and managers  Responsibilities:  ? Worked on building interactive prototypes using HTML, CSS and native JavaScript from a blueprint on Sketch.  ? Used jQuery to manipulate DOM and AJAX.  ? Used Git as the tool of version control and continuous integration.  ? Improved SEO by using multiple HTML metadata descriptions.  ? Used JavaScript, jQuery for user interactions in pages. AJAX, JSON to send requests to the server to check the functionality of the websites.  ? Made the website responsive using CSS Media Queries.  ? Tested front-end code in multiple browsers to ensure cross-browser compatibility. Education Master of Science in Software Engineering in Software Engineering Stevens Institute of Technology Bachelor degree in Computer Science and Technology in Computer Science and Technology University of Electronic and Technology of China Skills Visual studio, Git, Javascript, Bootstrap, Node.js