Embedded software Engineer Embedded <span class="hl">software</span> Engineer Embedded software Engineer - Nike Portland, OR • 4+ years of extensive experience in C, C++ on UNIX and Linux platforms and Embedded systems and automotive development.  • Experience in CAN based protocols and CAN based tools and validation.  • Experience in working on ECU's and the clusters and diagnostics.  • Experience in CAPL scripting and design and development of the infotainment for the vehicles.  • Expert in STL containers, Socket programming, Multithreading.  • Experience using Python and Shell Scripts.  • Experince in Linux ubuntu,debain,redhat versions.  • Experience with various testing tools gtest, coverity,cmock.  • Experience with Locomotive component development and engine development.  • Experience with Firmware.  • Experience with networking protocols.  • Experience in 3GP and LTE, CDMA, EvDO, WCDMA, GSM/EDGE, TCP/IP.  • Extensive experience in Media access protocols and security potocols.  • Experience working on a wide range of microcontrollers/microprocessors such as 8051, Raspberry pi, ARM, PIC.  • Experience of software development under real-time and integration of software onto hardware platform. Understanding of Printed Circuit Board (PCB) schematics and layout designs.  • Experience and Knowledge in writing queries, stored procedures, and triggers in RDBMS Oracle10g/11g,SQL,PL/SQL.  • Fully conversant with Systems Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  • Experience with automotive software AUTOSAR.  • Worked on DAVINCI developer in AUTOSAR.  • Experience with REST API.  • Worked on HIL TESTING.  • Well versed with Agile, Scrum, and Waterfall methodologies.  • Experience with various source control tools like cvs, svn and git/GitHub.  • Used Jira, bugzilla, and other project management tools.  • Experience in designing and developing web pages using HTML and CSS and working with MVC architecture.  • Experience in developing C++ services using web services architecture, SOAP, WSDL, and XML.  • Experience in Socket Programming, IPC (Inter Process Communication) mechanisms under different OS/RTOS.  • Experience with Embedded pro C.  • Knowledge on SQL server BI tools SSIS, SSRS and software design, code optimization, networking TCP/IP, operating systems.  • Excellent knowledge of C++ templating, C++11, embedded systems design and developing  • Experience with Linux centos.  macros, routines in C++.  • Experience in Cloud Integration process for configuring multiple application programs to share  • Experieence with HMI tools ALTIA.  • Experience and knowledge of IEEE802.11 Wi-Fi protocols such as 802.11b/g/n/ac, hostapd, WPA supplicant, Security Protocols (WPA, WPS), Hotspot 2.0, BSS Transitions, 802.11 Measurements. Work Experience Embedded software Engineer Nike - Portland, OR January 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  • Developed embedded software controls algorithms using Matlab/Simulink and, generated auto-code and wrote hand-code when necessary; integrated resulting software into Active Safety software product line.    • Responsible for the development, implementation, and testing of new Active safety software functionality along with the analysis and correction of defects in existing software.    • Gained experience with Serial Data busses, including LIN, CAN, CAN FD, SENT, FlexRay and Ethernet. And used Vehicle Spy and CANalyzer to log/monitor the CAN traffic.    • Tested the software in the vehicle and on the HIL bench using ETAS INCA and dSPACEMicroAutobox.    • Worked with validation and software teams and carried out the CAN based valisation and diagnostics.    • Worked on flashing procedures and ECU development softwares.    • Worked on the clusters and infotainment panels.    • Worked on embedded based C coding and debugging.    • Worked on the vehicle ECU's, clusters, diagnostics and softwares.    • Worked in VxWorks and QNX.    • Worked DDS layer for the design and development of the components.    • Conducted and analyzed functional user requirements for developing embedded software using DOORS.    • Worked on the cMake files in the repositories.    • Analyzed the data collected from the vehicle using playback models and wrote the reports incorporating results and recommended the software changes.    • Supported software optimization in embedded cores to meet real-time performance requirements for time-critical ADAS and Self-Driving applications.    • Worked in 3GP and LTE and worked on the socket based based programming using CDMA.    • Worked on Autosar model and worked on Da Vinci Developer.    • Performedunit, integration, and system level testing, and submitted complete reports of code coverage, functionality errors using Simulink Test.  • Designed all the required circuit schematics in Proteus Simulator.  • Worked on QT QML 4.8 and 5.1.  • Programmed existing GUI'S using QT.  • Successfully booted images on the SOC such as ARM Cortex-A8, M3, M4.  • Worked on HMI tools for the automotive infotainment.  • Built the application using the rogue wave libraries.  • Deployed Buildroot tool in linux then configured the system configurations, target options and enabling the linux kernel later booted the images on to the embedded hardware.  • Installed the cross-tool chain in Ubuntu and complied the U-boot.  • Involved in Development of instrument cluster features in an HMI Modeling toolchain Unit, feature, and functional testing  • Issued debugging, root-cause analysis, and documentation  • Worked on c++ based application using 802.11.  • Programmed the existing GUI'S and worked with the team integration engineers.  • Coordinated with of a team of HMI developers  • Worked on cross compilation of x64 and intel.  • Deployed the Linux Kernel source code from Git repository and cloned in the terminal then modified the C code for device drivers of SPI, I2C and CAN for hardware (Nvidia dalmore).  • Developed the C code for handling the peripherals on board and drivers on SOC.  • Worked on oracle pro C  • Created the Makefile using the source code of different controllers like USB, SPI, ADC, GPIO etc.  • Developed Application that would allow transfer of log files from Linux computer to Linux server using C++ multithreading environment.  • Experience with voice recgnition.  • Execution of Test cases, Review log and Test Summary report.  • Worked on Big fixes and memory management.  • Experience with Rogue wave.  • Worked on REST API.  • Worked on oracle pro C and sql pro C  • Worked closely with controls engineering teams and systems engineering teams to ensure inter-operability of subsystems C/C++ Embedded Developer Cognizant, Hyd March 2014 to November 2015 March 2014- Nov 2015  Role: C/C++ Embedded Developer  Responsibilities:  • Responsible for application development using C++, Unix, Oracle, SQL, PL/SQL, packages, stored procedures, SQL*Loader and UNIX Shell scripting.  • Worked with firmware SSD.  • Developed C++ Trade Capture and Processing application which is a single unified platform for booking and tracking Credit derivatives like CDSI, Single Name CDS, and Index Tranches, etc. using network/socket programming and multithreading concepts.  • Designed graphics with HMI/SCADA software, Schneider Citect, Viejo designer and iFIX.  • Developed, Installed and modified HMI software as per business needs.  • Wrote the cMake files which had the project configuration.  • Involved in supporting HMI installations, remote access of devices as per requirement.  • Tested and maintained document on HMI operations. And also involved in configuring windows and HMI software  • Responsible for providing technology solutions to the credit risk management business (specifically commodity derivatives and FX options)  • Worked on IEEE 802.11 for the excgange of messages.  • Worked on DDS libraries  • Worked on tcp/ip and ethernet protocols  • Worked on oracle pro C.  • Worked on the security protolcs for the cross compilation of architecturesand exchanges of information using WPA and WPS.  • Worked on several security protocols.  • Worked on Sysml diagrams in Magic draw.  • Developed SOAP services in C++ for booking trades for derivative instruments and receiving orders from external interfaces like SEF, ICELINK.  • Responsible for providing technology solutions to the equity business globally including design, development, maintenance, and user training of all vended and internally developed technologies.  • Developed asynchronous event model for processing and tracking transactions using RabbitMQ.  • Worked on pro Cdata types.  • Worked on HMI tools in clusters for the automotive architectures to enhance the design.  • Designed, developed and implemented new classes and objects in C++ for handling various trade and clearing events.  • Utilized various object-oriented techniques and implemented new logic for processing ICELINK events and CLEARING messages.  • Designed, developed, and deployed new processes for sending trading events to downstream RISK applications.  • Developed Application on REST API.  • Worked on locomotive based components with GE and also powertrain and engine based control and logging.  • Designed and programmed C++ applications, and used Microsoft Foundation Classes (MFC).  • Fixed bugs in C++ and Java code: program crashes, memory leaks, performance bugs.  • Wrote scripts in Python with Django as the underlying DB interface layer to load some targettables from the new tables in the new DB designed.  • Designed and implemented embedded real-time control system software usingThreadX Embedded C/C++ coding in FreeRTOS (VxWorks) environment.  • Support modules for implementation using PL/SQL Scripts, Unix Shell Scripts and Pro*C.  • Developed embedded C++, real time SCA compliant QT software objects.  • Developed tools for SCM systems monitoring, management, troubleshooting, auditing and reporting, repository.  • Worked on QT and qml version and QT widgets.  • Experience in automation of test cases using Python, C and Shell script.  • Trouble shooting experience with SOAP/REST Web Services.  • Experince with ZMQ.  • Worked on protocols like IEEE802.11 Wi-Fi protocols such as 802.11b/g/n/ac, hostapd, WPA supplicant, Security Protocols (WPA, WPS), Hotspot 2.0, BSS Transitions, 802.11 Measurements  • Used the HM tools like Altia for the existing GUI'S.  • Experience with google Protobuf.  • Experience with with bug tools like Jeera.  • Extensively used the repositories like GitHub and SVN.  • Actively participated in all the stages of SDLC, beginning from understanding the basic programsand creating the requirement specification and requirement Analysis, Design, Development,  • Programming and Changing UI screens using C++/QT Used multi-threading extensively.  • Implemented RS-232, RS-485, SPI, I2C and other specific communication protocol libraries to communicate microcontrollers and peripherals.  • Improved design using RS-232 communication from development board to PC display software by creating a Windows application to read the RS-232 data that sent data via Ethernet to display.  • Hands on Experience in developing the C code in MPLAB XC8 compiler using different Microchip Microcontrollers like AT32UC3CXX, dsPIC33 etc.  • Modified C\C++ code on 32 Bit/64bits environments to support enhancements, fixed bugs in the existing software in multithreaded.  • Designed and developed Embedded Control software using C/C++ in a Eclipse FreeRTOS environment.  • Experience with Rogue wave library.  • Troubleshooting LAN and WAN problems, Application working slow problems.  • Worked on SDLC methodologies like Agile involved in the development of the project.  • Identified Test Scripts for Regression testing.  • Reporting daily testing status report  • Unit Testing, Integration and deploying the entire product.  • Involved in integration of applications and maintained versions using VSS (Visual Source Safe).  • Analyzed UI Design and Specification document provided by client.  • implementation of GUI interface from MFC based applicationrunning on Windows to a QT based application running on Linux.  • Programming and Changing UI screens using C++/QT.  • Used multi-threading and thread synchronization extensively.  • Designed, coded, debugged and unit tested BIOS code to enable different Server platformfeatures.  • Worked on Autosar software architecture.  • Used C++ interface/SQL to update/retrieve information from MySql DB.  • Worked in Agile (Scrum), which included short term goals, iterative development and dailystand-up meetings.  Environment: C, C++, Design Patterns, SQL, Python, SVN, GitHub, Jira, OOAD, XML/JSON, JavaScript, STL, multi-threading, VISUAL C++ C++ Developer Maruti March 2013 to March 2014 Responsibilities:  • Developed embedded software controls algorithms using Matlab/Simulink &Stateflow to detect the failures of various sensors and actuators used in diesel engines.    • Developed and modified CAN Data Dictionaries using CANdb++ to test the controller software and interfaces between various sensors and control module during the development phase.    • Worked closely with System and Calibration engineers to fix issues in code and to create new requirements.    • Worked on locomotive based design and programmed the GUI using HMI tools.    • Performed unit testing and debugging of the Handwritten/Auto-generated C code using Lauterbach/Trace32 debugger.    • Worked on qt widgets.    • Develop Test cases for various parts of code/model and tested using HIL simulators and ETAS INCA software.    • Fixed problems in code and design with the help of collected data and analyzed it using MDA (Measure Data Analyzer).    • Performed peer review of code, software documents, requirements and test cases developed by the team.    Environment: Control Algorithms, CANdb++, Matlab, Simulink, C, Lauterbach/Trace32, HIL, ETAS INCA, MDA Education Masters in Electrical and computer Engineering in Electrical and computer Engineering University of Bridgeport - Bridgeport, CT 2017 Bachelors In electronics and Communications in electronics and Communications Nagpur University - Nagpur, Maharashtra 2014 Skills Visual studio, C++, Design patterns, Git, Jenkins, Oop, Python, Scripting, Svn, Soap, Sockets, Tcp/ip, Aix, Linux, Red hat, Shell scripting, Solaris, Sun, Db2, Microsoft sql server