Full stack Developer Full stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full stack Developer California City, CA • IT professional with over 8 years of experience in both front-end and back-end application design, development and maintenance in object-oriented design, software design patterns and deployment of Web based, Client Server with N-tier Software Architecture in real estate, event management and health service domains.  • Experienced in designing and normalizing SQL databases based on business needs; or modernizing old and monolithic systems by taking advantage of Entity Framework 6 code first.  • Have extensive experience working in full repository and unit of work with MVVM design pattern.  • Experience working with SQL-Server using SSMS and T-SQL, creating Views, Stored Procedures, Triggers and functions.  • Worked extensively on Entity Framework, LINQ and Lambda expressions with SQL server.  • Experienced in ASP.NET, C#, .NET, ASP.NET WEB API, ASP.NET MVC, TypeScript.  • Experience in ASP.NET Core, Angular2/4+, Express.js, Node.js, Vue.js, Nuxt.js, blazor.  • Experience with postman for testing and consuming web APIs.  • Experience with T4MVC for creating strongly typed helpers and paths in ASP.Net Web applications.  • Experience with Pandas and NumPy using Anaconda, Jupyter notebooks and Virtualenvs for data analysis.  • Experienced with source control management systems such as GitHub, GitLab.  • Worked with Docker and Kubernetes on personal projects.  • Experience in development of single page application (SPA) using Angular, Node.js, Typescript.  • Have experience deploying application on Microsoft Azure.  • Created Angular Modules, Components, Services, implemented routing for seamless navigation.  • Experienced on using node package manager (NPM) and node modules such as Http.  • A strong understanding of programming fundamentals and Object-Oriented programming.  • Exposure with CI/CD pipeline in Azure.  • Have experience working with SWAGGER to create documentation for my web APIs.  • Experience with Stimulsoft Report Generator.  • Worked with warehousing and shop systems with on premise servers in different locations.  • Knowledge of Blockchain technology, and Cryptcurrency investor.  • Recently have started learning RUST programming language and Web Assembly. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Full stack Developer Los Angeles, CA July 2018 to Present Description: The project that I was involved in Fahang was an event management program for their registered customers. In this project they wanted to be able to create events for concerts, new movies, theaters, parties, etc. And let their customers and those who are invited to register, pay and fill the survey after. I was responsible for the event management module that consisted of CRUD events and a calendar of events. On the user's dashboard was the list of upcoming events for registration and preview of previews registered events and their reviews, also invitations and payments where two other module that I created.    Responsibilities:  • Gathering requirements from business, evaluate business requirements, perform analysis, and create detail design and implementation specifications.  • Designed data models and UI wire frames using google draw.io.  • Developed a unified sales application using WPF/XMAL/MVVM, C#, Entity Frameworks and Microsoft SQL Server in conjunction with the agile methodology  • Involved in creating both Restful API using both Asp.Net Web API and Node, Express Js.  • Experience with page validation, both client-side and server-side, using JavaScript and Data Annotations, Design and implement RINS UI with WPF4, Expression Blend 4.  • Used Entity Framework to access data from their legacy database.  • Used LINQ query to interact with the database and perform data manipulation through the web API.  • Implemented the database on MongoDB, used Studio 3T as interface and mongoose as the ORM to the database.  • Used CORS to manage cross origin domain requests.  • Created dashboard and forms using Angular material in all pages and components.  • Implemented Typescript classes and Angular life cycle hooks to maintain the data present in each view.  • Used HTTP, Observables and Rxjs to communicate with the server and used Subjects for sharing data within different components.  • Conduct code and quality reviews of all modules and ensure that the standards set by the client are being followed.    Environments: ASP.NET, wpf, SQL-SERVER, Entity Framework, ADO.NET, Angular 4, Bootstrap, Node, Express, Visual Studio 2013, Atom, MongoDB, Mongoose, TypeScript, LINQ, HTML5, CSS3 Software Engineer Los Angeles, CA June 2015 to July 2018 Description: MedXFactor formed in Los Angeles to provide service to small clinics and doctors with their B2B counter parts, such as lawyers and insurance companies. We provide different services starting with building custom websites working on SEO. Worked on an Electronic Health Record Solution that made it very easy for our clients to handle their patient's treatment and billing records. Also was involved for B2B solution application for law firms and the clinic to handle Personal Injuries and Workers Comp subpoenas. I worked in the newly formed startup with various needs including but not limited to documentation implementation, dataset design and lots of R&D.    Responsibilities:  • Participated in multiple high-level design and development planning. From creating UI wireframes to database modeling.  • Implemented database tables and functions using TSQL, altered tables and added properties to the database in day today basis as the system was evolving.  • Used LINQ for fetching, inserting, updating, deleting and manipulating data to the database.  • Used ADO.NET to create data access layer for R&D Web Application. I also took advantage of scaffolding for creating views and controllers.  • R&D with google sheets cloud for the first draft of the managing Personal Injuries and Workers Comp subpoenas solution.  • Got to work with Pandas for querying from multiple tables from the production My-SQL database, do data manipulations and insert into SQL-Server Express  • R&D with nopCommerce for creating shop for our clients to sell their products online.  • Used WordPress to make in demand changes when clients wanted minor changes in their website.  • Used Trello to manage development of the project.  Environments: Visual Studio 2013, SQL-Server Express.js, SSMS, WordPress, nopCommerce, Python, Pandas, PyCharm, SSMS, Visual Basic, C#, Windows Forms Applications, TFS. Full stack Developer Weichert - Teaneck, NJ May 2011 to June 2015 Description: Weichert Realtors is a consulting real estate firm in new jersey. They provide services for both home owners and home seekers. Users can find listing of houses and apartments both for rent and for sale. Home owners can get price evaluation and put their house for rent or sale. Also, the firm helps buyers to find proper mortgage for their needs. I was involved in understanding their business and refactoring their old database to new one, adding new features and migrating their data to the new database. After business analysis and finalizing the database structure, I got involved in developing the WEB API to create the interface to database. Also created Angular services to consume the web API in components in different modules such as search pages and loading property information.  Responsibilities:    • Developed the backend using C#, ASP.NET 5.0 Web API, Entity Framework 6.0, SQL-Server.  • For the Model Layer, used Code First approach and used Full Repository and Unit of Work Design Pattern in Data Access Layer.  • Implemented DBContext class with Custom seed data for database initialization.  • Lead developer for a pricing and distribution application using C#, WPF, XMAL, Modern UI, MVVM, and Microsoft SQL Server.  • Used JWT to generate and verify encrypted user info and their role and claims to authorize actions in the backend Develop Desktop application with C# 4.0, WPF, and Asp.net.  • Used Postman to test the API for proper functionality and creating reference API calls for other team members.  • Used LINQ extensively for CRUD and manipulating data in data access layer.  • Used T4MVC to strongly type paths and helpers to eliminate the use of literal strings.  • Developed Single page application with Angular 6, used the Angular and responsive UI app.  • Worked with Angular-CLI to generate components, services, directives, pipes.  • Created Guard Service in Angular 6 to prevent invalid routing address. Used NG-Model, NG-IF, NG-For, Dependency Injection, Input, Output Emitter, Class Binding and Two-Way Binding.  • Implemented client-side validation for the forms using Angular 6 Reactive Forms and Template driven form.  • Implemented Authorization and Authentication in angular using Auth Guard.  • Worked with RxJs, mainly Observables for asynchronously calling the server and mapping the data in JSON format.  • Develop Desktop application with C# 4.0, WPF, and Asp.net application on Microsoft Azure cloud infrastructure.    Environment: .NET framework 4.5, ASP.NET 5.0 MVC, Microsoft Visual Studio 2017, VS Code, SQL Server, Microsoft Azure, GitHub, Entity Framework 6.0, Angular 6, ASP Web API, Bootstrap, Typescript, LINQ, SQL Server Management Studio, Stimulsoft Education Bachelor's in Computer Science Islamic Azad University North Tehran Branch Skills .net (8 years), Asp (5 years), C# (8 years), Sql (8 years), Visual studio (8 years) Additional Information Skills:    Languages C#, JavaScript, TypeScript, Python, C++, C, RUST  .Net Technologies .NET Framework 4.5, ASP.NET WPF, MVC 5.0, ADO.NET, Entity Framework 6.0, LINQ  Databases SQL Server, MongoDB  Web Technologies HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Angular 4+, Vue.js, Bootstrap, jQuery, Node.js, Express  Development Tools MS Visual Studio, VS Code, Spyder IDE, Atom, Jupyter Notebook, Anaconda, PyCharm  Source Control GitHub, GitLab    Operating Systems Windows Pro, Linux (Ubuntu), Windows Server  Design Patterns MVC, MVVM, Inversion Control, Repository & Unit of Work