Software Engineer <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Software Engineer - PassiveLogic Work Experience Software Engineer PassiveLogic August 2018 to Present Summary: Building control automation software development    ? Designed and implemented a data-driven HVAC simulation engine in Swift following Agile and test-driven  development practices  ? Improved usability of database-to-Swift interface by developing contextual datamodel navigation constraints  ? Optimized modeling software to facilitate distributed and parallel computation on GPUs  ? Managed migration of test data during data model updates using PostgreSQL  ? Development of mathematical representations of common HVAC equipment Undergraduate Researcher Computational Hydrogeology Group January 2017 to July 2018 Summary: Analysis and presentation of findings from a sulfate impacted wild rice stream    ? Analyzed and visualized field data using Python, R and Matlab  ? Modeled groundwater-surface water exchange at a mining impacted stream using inverse temperature profiling  ? Developed a data-scraping tool to convert the position of geographic features in maps to an (x, y) coordinate  system using Matlab  ? Presented research findings in the form of a poster and senior thesis. Findings from the thesis are included in a manuscript under review at the Journal of Geophysical Research.  ? Installed and administered Windows Server 2012 on lab server Data Analyst Antea Group May 2017 to August 2017 Summary: Data aggregation and analysis for PFC and VOC contaminated sites    ? Saved 15 hours per week by implementing Python scripts to automate data wrangling  ? Applied Theil-Sen and Mann-Kendall trend analysis to analyze groundwater sampling data at PFC impacted sites  ? Synthesized 30 years of groundwater sampling data in various forms and presented findings to lead geologist Software Developer Physics Education Research Group January 2016 to August 2016 Summary: User experience development    ? Developed a nonlinear decision tree to coach students through challenging physics problems.  ? Performed rigorous quality assurance testing to ensure product usability  ? Communicated daily with back end developers to suggest new features and improve UX Education B.S. in Earth Sciences College of Science and Engineering, University of Minnesota Links https://github.com/jacktlange