Hybrid Developer Hybrid <span class="hl">Developer</span> IOS Developer - DOT Washington, DC • Around 7 plus years of experience in Information Technology in designing, development and maintenance of client server applications including 5 plus years of experience in mobile applications design and development on iOS platform for various domains.  • Expertise in development of both iPhone and iPad applications. Consuming all the required API's for mobile application in an efficient way.  • Efficiently using the available tools Xcode, Interface Builder, Storyboards, and Instruments.  • Having a good knowledge of Cocoa Applications and iOS developer portal for App distribution and provisioning.  • A very good experience in using the API's and frameworks for iOS application development. The frameworks include UIKit, PassKit, Core Graphics, Quartz Core, MediaPlayer, AVFoundation, MapKit, CoreLocation, MessageUI, Foundation, CoreData, System Configuration, Security, Address Book, EventKit, CFNetwork, Core Telephony, Social, etc.  • Well experienced on client server applications consuming the web services of type REST, POST, SOAP, WSDL and parsing of data using the JSON, XML parsers. Writing the code for synchronous and asynchronous calls.  • Experience on local storage of data on the client side using the SQLite DB. Writing the queries to store and fetch the data.  • A good experience on maintain the code base on regular basis. Worked on the SCM tools like SVN, RTC, GIT, and Jenkins for source code management.  • A very good knowledge for application distribution to app store. Maintaining the certificates and profiles up to date. A good track on apple's schedule on new releases and versions of iOS.  • Worked on hybrid application development as well involving various cross platforms like Apache Cordova. Effectively handling the native features in hybrid applications.  • Experience on testing tools like Quality Center for defect management and life cycle.  • Exposure to Operating Systems includes Linux / Mac OSX / Windows.  • Hands on experience in debugging, bug fixing, analyzing the crash reports and providing the technical solutions for various challenges and requirements in the application complexities.  • Experience in handling the memory related issues for the application which is major constraint for a mobile application. Testing the application for memory leaks.  • Excellent problem solving, verbal and written communication skills. Excellent team player and team leading, quick learning.  • Have a good knowledge on Swift. Work Experience Hybrid Developer DOT - Washington, DC June 2016 to Present Description: Serve the United States by ensuring a fast, safe, efficient, accessible and convenient transportation system that meets our vital national interests and enhances the quality of life of the American people, today and into the future.  I was part of multiple project implementation for PHMSA vertical of DOT and was involved in below application development  New Applications  • Chat 16 - Used by Inspectors and users who work for PHMSA.  • OCFR - This app provides online access to PHMSA's Hazardous Materials Regulations (HMR) in 49 CFR parts 100-180 for the classifying, handling and packaging of hazardous materials by highway, rail, aircraft, and vessel.  • Itinerary App - enabling inspectors with real time assignments, maps, case management functionality  Enhancements of Applications  • Fun Stat - Used for Budgeting  • EARS - Used to send Investigative reports  • RIN Locator - It allows user to search for an approved cylinder requalifier. By entering the state, city or zip code  Responsibilities  • Developed above mentioned hybrid mobile application with Apache Cordova that can run natively on android and iOS  • Used AngularJS, IONIC as the development framework to build the application  • Worked closely with customer's development team to identify APIs, define data schemas, and document workflows, business requirements, and domain knowledge  • Contributed in Client meetings to identify requirements related to Mobile user experience  • Worked on Architecture Blue prints and Critical Design Documents  • Conducted pilot sessions for business users to get feedback  • Developed unit test cases and wrote integration test cases for the application to follow TDD.  • Integrated with google maps for the locations points and provided the driving directions to reach the destination by using Cordova plugins.  • Built the touch id feature using Ionic Cordova plugins.    Environments: iOS (iPhone SDK), Cordova, XCode, angular, CSS, HTML, IONIC, Android Studio, Test Flight, Cocoa Pods. Senior IOS Developer TD Bank - Falmouth, ME October 2015 to April 2016 Description: TD Bank N.A is fastest growing bank in north eastern parts of US and prominent bank in Canada. TD Bank Mobile Application is a stable native iOS mobile application in apple store which also has its financing and trading versions in the store. The mobile application is known for its convenience banking, deposit on the go send quick find features. TD Bank Mobile App is most secure mobile banking application made for commitment to online security.    https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/td-bank-us/id382107453?mt=8  Responsibilities  • Developed unit test cases and wrote kiwi test cases for the application to follow TDD.  • Worked on fast moving agile development team and developed many new banking services.  • Actively involved in project life cycle as a code developer of scrum team.  • Implemented banking features that include locator services and navigation to nearest stores.  • Developed business logic for term frequency of Deposit, Loan and Credit Card account types.  • Active interaction with QA and design team for understanding and implementing business logic on daily basis.  • Implemented left to right swipe gesture recognizer for displaying navigation items for better user interaction.  • Used Cocoa-Pods for integrating different dependency managements and library frameworks.  • Implemented web service calls and used UIWebViews to integrate web pages for the application.  • Implemented expression validators at every step of the application and took care of error handling throughout the application life cycle.  • Created sampler application for QA to test the application in different environments.  • Used Atlassian Stack- Jira and Stash for peer code reviews, bug fixes and documented articrafts.    Environments: iOS (iPhone SDK), Swift, X Code, Stash, Cocoa pods, Mac OSX, Cocoa Touch, Foundation, UIKit, Core Graphics, Restful JSON, iPhone Simulator. IOS Developer Zionsbancorp - Salt Lake City, UT May 2014 to September 2015 Description: Managing your finances on the go just got easier with Zions Bank Mobile Banking. Whether you need to check account balances, transfer money between eligible accounts, pay a bill, deposit a check, or find a Zions Bank branch or ATM.    https://www.zionsbank.com/personal/mobile-banking.jsp    Responsibilities  • Used AV Foundation Framework to record audio from the device.  • Implemented Dropbox API for sharing and backup.  • Implemented Core Data framework to store user Data.  • Implemented NS Operation Queue and NSURL Connection to integrate with backend web services.  • Implemented using Storyboard and ARC.  • Developed unit tests for testing specific functionality and logic.  • Fixed bugs as documented by QA team.  • Used Instruments to fine tune the app performance and memory management.  • Formatted the Data as per Business rule to display in UI.  • Followed a work data flow principle for design and development.  • Worked closely within a cross functional team of testers and developers.  • Debugging issues at onsite whenever required.  • Worked with GDB and Xcode for debugging.  • Worked with Subversion to checkout and update the codebase changes.  • Worked on open GL    Environments: iOS (iPhone SDK), Objective C, XCode , Cocoa Touch, Cocoa framework, JavaScript, JQuery, Adobe CS5 Suite (Photoshop, Dreamweaver), MapKit, Core Location, AVFoundation,Git iOS App Developer UNFI - Providence, RI March 2013 to March 2014 Description: UNFI is the leading independent national distributor of natural, organic and specialty foods and related products including nutritional supplements, personal care items and organic produce, in the United States. In addition to excellent distribution services, it provides a range of innovative, value-added services for our customers and suppliers, to foster mutual success and growth.    https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/iunfi/id421683702?mt=8    Responsibilities  • Written Technical Specification document defining the Business Model or Transfer Objects, Class, Activity/Sequence diagrams, Web Services consumed, flow dialogs and the software design for BOPS mobile app.  • Built iPhone Application that uses Tab bar, Navigation Controllers and consumes RESTful JSON Web Services converted to existing Soap Services.  • Built iOS Storyboards with Login View and Tab Bar Controllers creating segues between different views, established IBOutlet, IBActionsin the storyboard.  • Tab Bar Controller interface to switch among the independent tasks that can be executed in parallel (Open Units, Pick-lists, Confirm, More/LogOff).  • Multi-Threaded some of the tasks like downloading images, Service Notification Updates and Utilization Logging in iOS by running tasks in a separate thread using GCD blocks and NSOperationQueue for optimizing the performance.  • Created Custom UITableView cells with different styles to accommodate the UX/UI requirements in Open Units Screen and Picklists Screen.  • Consumed JSON web service to fetch the data, reformatted the data to group the departments under a parent product group and bind it to the customized Table View.  • Written the logic to highlight the jeopardy items on the table, so the pick-list of those open units can be created for executed on priority.  • Coded the update notification part where in the backend is updated with the tasks and Units executed for Alerts mechanism.  • Coded the Open Units, Pick-list creation, Pick-list execution and reservation confirmation for customer pick up.  • Followed scrum methodology, an agile development model with 30 days sprints.    Environment: Objective-C, XCode , Mac OSX, Cocoa Touch, Foundation, UIKit, Core Graphics, RESTfulJSON, iOS , iPhone Simulator , iPod Touch " Device integrated with Barcode Scanners and Magnetic stripe reader (for payment), Agile Scrum Methodology, Subversion(SVN). Software Engineer Profund Info Tech - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2012 to February 2013 Description: This Project aims at automating the contemporary manual of designing a remote control. This application has been developed for the R&D Center of Ruwido (Germany). It is a web-enabled application that allows the access of Ruwido's information with defined access level restrictions to Ruwido employees and distributors. It Provides search and process functionality for the various categories of remote controls and supports the design process of remotes at the R&D center. The search facility helps the user in identifying the required remote information along with download feature of the same.  Responsibilities:  • Created user-friendly GUI interface and Web pages using HTML, JSP.  • Developed different Servlet components.  • Interacted with the Database using MYSQL.  • Involved in Database designing using ER Modeling and creating tables.  • Extensively used JavaScript for client side validations    Environments: HTML, JavaScript, Apache Server, Java Mail, and UNIX. Education Bachelor's Skills Android, Ios, Objective-c, Windows mobile, Xcode, Visual studio, C++, Html, Ruby, Rails, Ruby on rails, Swift, Apache, Unix, Tomcat, Eclipse, Java, Jboss, Sql, Sqlite