.Net & UI Developer .Net &amp; UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> .Net & UI Developer Tampa, FL • Around 6+ years in software development life cycle (SDLC) especially in Analysis, Design, Development, Testing and Deploying of applications and implementing-tier Client/Server applications using Object Oriented design methodologies.  • Experience in developing N-tier applications using ASP.NET, C#, VB.NET, Windows Forms, Visual Studio.NET, ADO.NET, XML, Web Services and VB Script.  • Extensive Full-Stack/Front-End development experience building, deploying, and maintaining web apps with HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Aurelia JavaScript, AngularJS, ReactJS/Redux, Bootstrap, Node.JS and JSON.  • Expertise in advanced JavaScript libraries and frameworks such as Angular.js, Angular 2.0/4.0, React JS, Node.js.  • Used Node Package Manager to install dependencies and NPM modules such as CORS, Body-parser, Mongoose, MySQL and JSON web token.  • Having good knowledge of React-Native (The Framework for Android and iOS Apps.).  • Expertise using React components, Reducers, and Actions to implement MVC and Redux architecture and having experience with middleware such as redux-thunk.  • Expertise in designing and developing Single Page Application using jQuery, HTML5, Kendo UI, Microservices using Web API 2 and Entity Framework 6. Has in-depth knowledge in MVVM and MVW pattern using Angular JS.  • Experience in preparing Use Case Diagrams, Class Diagrams, Activity Diagrams and Collaboration diagram using design tools also Expertise in working with MVC 4.5 and Razor View.  • Knowledge on Object Oriented Programming Concepts including Inheritance, Abstraction and Polymorphism.  • Strong Experience in Web Forms and Win Forms applications with .NET Framework and Visual Studio.  • Experience in creating Views, Partial Views, and Sections etc. In ASP.NET MVC, and Created the Controllers and Controller Actions, Filters, Routing using ASP.NET MVC.  • Design programs that handle structured data and analyze algorithms to optimize program efficiency.  • Experienced in UNIT Testing frameworks like NUnit, MS Unit Tests & Rhino mocks (mocking).  • Experience in working Language Integrated Query (LINQ) especially LINQ to object and LINQ to SQL  • Experience using AJAX to create interactive web applications, mainly focusing at increasing performance.  • Experience in developing and building applications using Windows Workflow Foundation and XAML.  • Knowledge in working with RDBMS includes MS SQL Server 2012/2008/2005, Oracle 8i, 9i, 10gand MS-Access.  • Good experience with Agile (SCRUM)methodology, Waterfall and Test-driven development  • Performed Unit Testing (using N-Unit), Integration Testing and Performance Testing.  • Very Good experience in handling clients & meeting their requirements and willing to adapt to new technologies/work environments, well organized team player with good analytical and leadership skills. Work Experience .Net & UI Developer PricewaterhouseCoopersLLC (PWC) - Tampa, FL June 2018 to July 2019 Description: This Project is mainly developed for PWC Employees. In this project there are 5 modules like Home, Profile, Team, Business and Application. Based on user access they can access the data in that modules.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in the SDLC phase of requirement analysis, design, and development of the web-based intranet application tool using React JS, C#, Web API, HTML5, CSS3, Java Script, and SQL 2016.  • Develop complex business and integration services using React JS, C#, Web API, HTML5, CSS3, Java Script, React JS, Boot Strap, Kendo UI and SQL 2016 tools and designs.  • Working with agile environment and involved in sprint planning, demo and retrospective discussions.  • Building reusable components and used different React JS/Redux libraries.  • Develops user interface for the application using advanced JavaScript frameworks like ReactJS, NodeJS and JSX, ES6, Bootstrap, JSON, Axioms, etc.  • Works on the tasks assigned in VSTS and update the status and handle the dependencies for each task.  • Developed various screens for the front end using React JS and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager) and redux library.  • Developing back end interfaces using SQL packages, stored procedures, Functions, Cursor Management, Exceptions Handling, Object Types and triggers.  • Creating Web APIs for interaction between SQL Server and flushing the data to front end using React JS also developing reusable components.  • Working with clients to develop layout, color scheme for their website and implemented it into a final interface design with the HTML5/CSS3 and JavaScript.  • Developing dynamic robust UI screens using CSS3, HTML5, JavaScript, Bootstrap and jQuery.  • Using TDD (Test Driven Development) approach with testing libraries: Jest and Enzyme.  • Performing the System Testing, Regression Testing for Complete UI after fixing the Issues which are reported by Testing Team    Environment: .Net Framework 4.5, C#, ASP.NET, Web API, React JS, Node JS, HTML5, CSS3, React Kendo UI, SQL 2016, Java Script, Web API, Jest, Enzyme. Guide FCSO - Jacksonville, FL November 2017 to April 2018 Designation: .Net & UI Developer.    Description: This Project mainly developed for the Federal Health care Management, it maintains all the records of the Florida insurance claim peoples and the reports can be managed. Government has been integrated to Database so that, it can generate reports with up to date on their data. which helps to maintain the insurance claims efficiently.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in the SDLC phase of requirement analysis, design, and development of the web-based intranet application tool using ASP.NET and C#.  • Developed single page responsive Web UI using HTML5, Angular 2.0, Bootstrap, CSS3 and JavaScript.  • Redesigned and upgraded our FCSO web application from .NET 2.0 to .NET Core. This involved creating a completely new look and feel as well as large upgrades to our middleware pieces to work with the new .NET Core framework while adding new functionality to the application.  • Experience using Angular UI components like GRID.  • Created reusable HTML templates and style sheets based on UI standards and guidelines; Performed functional tasks using specifications and wireframes.  • Used MS SQL Server 2012 and implemented Optimized SQL Stored Procedures.  • Implemented Form Based authentication and Role based authorization to authenticate users and to enforce security in the application.  • Dockized applications by creating Docker images from Docker file, collaborated with development support team to setup a continuous deployment environment using Docker.  • Used AJAX to create better, faster and more user-friendly web applications.  • Extensively used User interface controls, which use jQuery to validate client-side validations.  • Used Grid View, Data List, and Panels to display and manipulate data in ASP.NET Web Forms.  • Maintained the Version, Labeled Versions and Backups of the source using TortoiseSVN and Proficient in developing N-tier architecture Class Libraries, e.g. Presentation Interface (UI), Business Logic Layer (BLL), Integration Layer (IL) and Data Access Layer (DAL).  • Experienced in designing reports for Web Applications using Crystal Reports and SSRS and worked on SQL Server Integrating System (SSIS).    Environment: C#, ASP.NET, ADO.NET, CSS3, HTML5, JavaScript, Angular 2.0, Web API, SQL Server 2012, T-SQL, IIS 6.0, AWS and TortoiseSVN. Full Stack .Net Developer American Express - Phoenix, AZ January 2017 to October 2017 Description: American Express is a leading provider of banking and financial services like credit card management, teller Credit card and bill payment Management system provides online corporate credit card services to clients. E-statement server provides the facility for the clients to view their statements, transaction history, merchant details, and disputes. It also provides the facility to inquire about the transactions. Card management modules allow maintaining the accounts.    Responsibilities:  • Effectively involved in various stages of development of the project starting from the project planning until production and maintenance using agile methodology.  • Used web services (WCF, Web API) to interact with data layer to access data from the database.  • UX/UI Design Photoshop/illustrator or Wire Framing Prototyping.  • Mobile Development web application for Android, iOS and BlackBerry Device  • Created Control templates, Data templates, Styles, Style Triggers, Value Converters, Commands and Dependency /Attached Properties for the WPF application.  • Involve design and architecture of developing internal Cloud environment.  • Worked with ASP.NET Web Forms, State Management, caching features, for optimization and configuration of the web application using C#.NET  • Designed, developed and trouble-shoot the application using advanced Microsoft technologies such as ASP.NET MVC with Entity Framework v6, jQuery, HTML5, XML and CSS3 using Agile development practices.  • Extensive experience of Object-Oriented JavaScript design pattern and JavaScript MVC Patterns Preferably Angular JS and React JS.  • Developed Web application using C#, ASP.NET and developed SPA using Angular JS and MVC5.  • Developed several REST web services supporting both XML and JSON to perform tasks such as remote thermostat and demand-response management. REST web services leveraged by both web and Mobile applications.  • Worked with the application developers and provide necessary SQL Scripts using T-SQL  • Configuring high availability using geographical MongoDB replica sets across multiple data centers.  • Performance tuning and stress-testing Of NoSQL database environments in order to ensure acceptable database performance in production mode.  • For the front-end development used the HTML, CSHTML, JavaScript, jQuery, bootstrap, Angular.js.  • Developed secure login interfaces with ASP.NET Server controls.  • Used various server controls like Multi View and Grid View with extensive data binding to display, page and sort multiple records.  • Designed and developed user interfaces using ASP.NET.  • Developed Server side and Client-side code using ASP.NET, jQuery and JavaScript.  • Designed and developed applications using ASP.NET with ADO.NET and SQL 2012.  • Built prototype using leveraging the Model-View-Controller (MVC) design pattern and bound all controls using data binding to the View Model.  • Designed and Developed User Interface using HTML5, CSS, Bootstrap, Java Script, jQuery, Data and Angular JS.  • Developed User controls using ASP.NET and used dynamically in the web pages using Master pages and CSS.  • Extensively used .NET inbuilt components like Data Grid, Data List and Calendar controls along with other .NET server controls and Wrote configuration settings in Web. Config.  Environment: HTML5, AngularJS, CSS3, JavaScript, XML, AJAX, SQL, ASP.NET, MVC, C#, ADO.NET, MS SQL Server 2012, SSRS, WPF, TFS, LINQ, Visual Studio 2015, IIS. .Net Developer Cisco - Durham, NC January 2015 to December 2016 Responsibilities:  • Involved in the system right from analysis, designing to maintenance  • Involved in creating technical documents and designing the flow of the system.  • Used Rational Requisite Pro for gathering Business Requirements.  • Generated sequence diagrams, class diagrams using UML Methodologies.  • Involved in designing and developing of the web forms using C#, ASP.NET.  • Customized various controls for Application by developing Custom Controls and User Controls.  • Implemented Role Based Security and SSL to make application secure.  • Implemented ASP.NET validation controls and JavaScript for client-side validations.  • Architecting, design and implementing ASP.NET MVC, AngularJS, SPA web solutions with industry best practices and design patterns.  • Involved in the creation of interface to manage user menu and Bulk update of Attributes using AngularJS, EXTJS, ODATA and JQUERY.  • Collaborating with Mobile application development teams and gaining experience with Android/IOS application development platforms.  • Create a Virtual Network on Windows Azure to connect all the servers, application on the Azure API platform that requires no on-premises hardware extensively.  • Created the user access list to restrict the people who have access to this application by giving roles and responsibilities to each user.  • Experienced in MVC client-side framework like AngularJS, and BackboneJS.  • Maintained uniformity among all web pages in GUI and designed Master Pages and themes.  • Data grid, Data list and repeater server controls are used with ADO.NET to manipulate the data and generate results based on alert types.  • Implemented Web Services using HTTP and SOAP protocol.  • Used LINQ2XML, LINQ2Sql for querying the data from xml data, SQL database  • Used TFS (Team Foundation Server) for Version control  • Written generic exception handlers which will log the user actions into Error Log Files.  • Involved in Unit testing on the final product.  • Implemented agile methodology for project enhancements.  • Involved in production support, and fix problems in a short span of time.    Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, SQL, ASP.NET, MVC, VB.Net, ADO.NET, MS SQL Server 2012, SSRS, AngularJS, WPF, Web API, TFS, LINQ, Visual Studio 2012, SQL Server Management Studio 2014, IIS Software Developer SIRISHA Solutions April 2013 to November 2014 Description: This Project is mainly developed for online hospital management system. In this project there are 4 modules like doctor, patient, admin and operator. Here admin have all credentials to handle this all modules and operator having only few credentials like monitoring doctors and patients. This is complete end to end process of hospital management.  Responsibilities:  • Worked as part of Customization and Implementation team of the Core Banking product Finacle and developed Custom apps/Reports.  • Involved in SDLC including designing, coding and testing.  • Worked on Designing, Coding, Testing and maintaining database objects, tables, views, packages, functions, procedures, indexes, sequences and triggers using SQL.  • Created front end pages of the application with JavaScript, HTML, CSS.  • Developed SQL scripts for Extraction, transformation and Loading of Data and designed source Entities for Oracle.  • Authored Business Requirement Documents, Functional and Technical Design documents, Integration Documents and User Training Documents.  • Worked in all deployment processes UAT and Production Environments. Handled database and website programming tasks.  • Web page Design including the use of HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Design and implementation of databases using SQL, C#.  • Involved in write application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Designed and developed intranet web applications using JavaScript and CSS.  Environment: C#, SQL, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, JSON, Windows. Education Bachelor's in computer science in computer science JNTU Skills .NET, VISUAL STUDIO, VISUAL STUDIO .NET, VISUAL STUDIO .NET 2012, C#, React, Javascript, Front End, Angular, CSS3, Front-End, Node, UI, Nodejs, Jquery, NET