UI/UX Developer UI/UX <span class="hl">Developer</span> Pricewaterhousecoopers Albany, NY ? Around 6+ years of extensive experience in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including identification of business needs and constraints, collection of requirements, architecture, UI Design, implementation, testing, deployment and maintenance.  ? Extensive experience in application and web development with emphasis on HTML/HTML5, XHTML, DHTML, XML, CSS 2/3, AJAX, JavaScript, jQuery, Angular and JAVA technology.  ? Strong knowledge in using Object Oriented Programming concepts in JavaScript and working knowledge of DOM models.  ? Expertise in creating Custom Reusable React Components Library.  ? Good Experience in React Js for creating interactive UI's using One-way data flow, Virtual DOM, JSX, React Native concepts.  ? Experience in writing application level code to interact with the backend code with AJAX and JSON or XML.  ? Wrote code to consume the JSON data as a part of JQUERY, AJAX calls and update the DOM.  ? Used JQuery to make the frontend components interact with the JavaScript functions to add dynamism to the web pages at the client side.  ? Strong experience in developing websites using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX,AngularJS, Node JS,D3.JS,Bootstrap and JSON.  ? Experienced in understanding the server side technologies like Java, ASP.Net, Python.  ? Strong expertise in Web Application development using PHP with OOPs, SVN, MySQL, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, CSS.  ? Designed Frontend within object Oriented JavaScript Framework like Angular JS, Bootstrap, Node JSand Ext-JS.  ? Developed single page applications using Ember JS and Angular 5, Typescript, ES5, Handlebar JS, HTML5, CSS3, and Bootstrap.  ? Maintained states in the stores and dispatched the actions using redux.  ? Good Experience using Bootstrap for Responsive Web Design (RWD) and CSS media Queries.  ? Developed websites using JavaScript frameworks such as AngularJS and NodeJS.  ? Good experience working on CSS Background, CSS Positioning, CSS Text, CSS Border, CSS Margin, CSS Padding, CSS Table, Pseudo Classes, Pseudo Elements and CSS Behaviors  ? Experience in developing applications using CSS-3 Media Queries, SASS, LESS and Responsive Web Design making.  ? Expertise working with all versions of Java including new features of Java.  ? Good working knowledge of Java builds tools like Gradle, Maven, and Ant.  ? Dynamic applications to consume APIs, XML and JavaScript with CSS.  ? Extensive experience in Building web applications using Kendo UI widgets, JQuery, Angular JS.  ? Experienced in Model-View-Controller (MVC) frameworks for developing web applications  ? Experience with Web 2.0 User Interfaces; W3C standards and specifications, and user-centered design principles.  ? Expert in HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, Ajax, JSON, Bootstrap, SASS, Node JS, Backbone JS, EXT JS, D3.JS,React JS, Angular JS.  ? Good knowledge in Angular.js directives to create reusable elements and attributes, along with easy to test and maintain client side interactivity in web applications.  ? Working knowledge of integrating Angular.js and React.js with additional custom directives. Also with Backbone.js and React.js to be used for comments sections.  ? Experience with Firebug for Mozilla and IE Developer Toolbar for Internet Explorer.  ? Experience in using JSUnit Testing for client side applications.  ? Collaborated with team members in design, analysis, coding, testing, and website review.  ? Coordinated with the business on User Acceptance Tests (UAT) and to get the approval from business on the design changes.  ? Working Knowledge of Grunt in case of compilation, unit testing Etc.  ? Experienced in version control tools like GIT, SVN and TFS  ? Experienced with Java IDEs like Eclipse, RAD, and Google Web Toolkit (GWT), sublime Text.  ? Involved in Unit Testing with Jasmine & Karma  ? Good knowledge of SEO in web design and development.  ? Highly motivated, dedicated, fast learner and has proven my abilities in my projects both as a team player and an individual. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience UI/UX Developer Pricewaterhousecoopers - Albany, NY December 2018 to August 2019 • Description:   PWC is one of the major consulting and tax service clients across the globe.  • Projects: Pwc’s Global tax workspace Application for clients like,General Electrical(GE) and Berkshire Hathaway.  • As A UI/UX developer, working closely with other developers on implementing the pwc workspace application development and business logic.  • Implemented Angularjs Routing , services, States and Components concepts in the Application.  • Worked on Angularjs directives ,controllers that can handle the several functionalities like navigation and it fits in to the various screen sizes(ipad,desktop).  • Worked on Java,Spring backend frameworks.   • Developed user interface by using the React JS, Flux for SPA development.  • Implemented JSON large data based files in to the front end side using angularjs and javascript functionalities.  • Created Responsive Grid based Model popups using the angularjs and javascript.  • Implemented the angularjs service Http protocols that can call the databases and update the data in the front end side, wherever required.  • Created Type Script reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component based architecture provided by Angular 7.  • Integrated the javascript and jquery grid based (Gizmogrid Application) in to the core GTW application.  • Developed email based templates in the application using the latest HTML-5 and CSS-3.  • Implemented stable React components and stand-alone functions to be added to any future pages.   • Worked on the Javascript Libraries like jquery, vanilla javascript, Packery js to implement the drag and drop div functionality in the Application.   • Integrated Frontend code with JAVA.  • Extensively Worked on Gitlab and Git Based Version Control.Worked on Creating Branches, Merging Branches to the Core Develop Branch,Git pull,Git push, Git commit and other commands.  • Designed the Various Components and Templates Mockups for the Core Applications using the UX-PIN tool.  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, Java Script, Jquery, Java,Spring AJAX, SaaS,Typescript,Angular 1.5v, Bootstrap, Responsive Design, Packery.js,UX PIN, XML,Visual Studio code,Intellij Idea Webstorm, JSON, DOM, Java,Git,Gitlab,Windows. UI/UX Developer Presbyterian Healthcare Services - Albuquerque, NM December 2017 to November 2018 Description:   Presbyterian Healthcare Services is one of the major non-profit Healthcare Provider in New Mexico.  Projects: Designed and Developed HSD(New Mexico Human Service Department) Automated Patient reports-SAS Web Application and Human Resource Hiring Web Portal.    • As A UI developer, extensively worked with other Team members on gather business requirements and Designing the Application with Balsamiq and Developed applications from scratch with Html5 css3 Javascript angular 5 angular material and etc   • Worked on Integration of Ldap (Lightweight Directory Access Protocol) in the Web App.  • Used Http client module and In Memory Web API in the application while the data is communicate with the backend.  • Worked on JSP(Java server pages) while the application was integrated with the login’s credentials for the ldap connection  • Worked on Development deployment of the application in the Tomcat server with the usage of ng build.  • Extensively used Angular Router and Angular Route in the application to implement the Single page application.  • Used React-autocomplete for creating google maps location search on the webpage.  • Utilized React for its efficient data flow architecture to create a lightweight and render efficient web app that searched projects via the GitHub API through keywords.  • The application was based on REST services built with Java/J2EE platform.  • Worked on Java/JSP Based applications.  • Created multiple TypeScript modules to manage written codes in Angular project.  • Used forms module and reactive forms module in the applications to implement the User Input forms wherever required.  • Implemented the Angular material in the application for mat-table, mat-pagination, mat-loader, mat-dropdown and material card functionalities.  • Worked on the Angular services to communicate and share the data between the components, and to pull the data from the backend.  • Validated Client-side Username and Passwords with the Angular and Javascript.  • Used LESS (CSS Preprocessor) in the application to reduce the time of working on the css properties, changed CSS properties of number of tables through LESS.  • Worked on SAS stored procedures to integrate the data with frontend.  • Upgraded/Converted the Jquery Ajax calls in to the angular httpclient calls using the Subscribe and Observable.  • Used Javascript to implement the Stored Sessions and session time for the logged user in the application.  • Worked on Node Modules to Install packages, Update the application, Degrade the Packages.  • Making the website structure responsive by obtaining Cross browser compatibility.  • Worked on Http Client Requests to the Server/Backend with Get and Post calls and worked on XML and JSON requests.  • Dynamically implemented the page numbers of tables using Javascript Arrays.  • Created/Designed the Work-flow Documents of the application to maintain the User guide using Ms Visio.  • Worked on the SVN and Bitbucket Version control to maintain the code.  • Worked on the Production deployment in tomcat with the help of ng build –prod command.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, Java Script, Jquery, Nodejs,Typescript, AJAX, SAS, Angular 5 and Angular 6, Angular Material, Bootstrap, Responsive Design, XML, ,Dreamweaver, JSON, DOM, JSP, Tomcat 7,8 Agile, SVN and Windows. Principal Financial Group Des Moines, IA October 2016 to November 2017 UI/UX Developer  Responsibilities:  ? Involved in Software Development Life Cycle phases like requirements gathering, Analysis, Design and Development.  ? Designed and developed web pages using HTML5, DHTML, XHTML, CSS3, Ajax and jQuery based on the W3C standards and Web 2.0.  ? Designed web pages using Cold Fusion, JavaScript, DHTML, and HTML using SQL and Access as the backend database.  ? Developed various UI (User Interface) components using AngularJS (MVC), JSON and HTML.  ? Designed dynamic and browser compatible pages using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap, Angular Materials, Ajax, and Angular 5.  ? Extensive experience of Object Oriented JavaScript design pattern and JavaScript MVC Patterns Preferably Angular 2.0.  ? Involved in implementing MVC architecture to separate business logic from the view using OOP in PHP 5.  ? Responsible for designing Business Layer using JAVA/J2EE using Spring MVC framework.  ? Front-end development utilizing JavaScript frameworks such as Angular JS, JQuery UI.  ? Developed a Utility function to increase the reusability of the code in different places.  ? Worked on Media Queries as a complement to the Grid System of UI Bootstrap to facilitate the implementation of the responsiveness.  ? Worked in C#, ASP.Net, C#.Net for GUI design and business logic implementation.  ? Compiled TypeScript files to produce equivalent ECMA5 JavaScript files.  ? Developed websites using JavaScript frameworks such as AngularJS 2.0.  ? Designed and implemented a SPA (Single Page Application) in AngularJS.  ? Designed Frontend with in object-oriented JavaScript Framework like bootstrap, Node.js, and AngularJS.  ? Worked on JavaScript frameworks (Angular JS, Node.js) to argument browser based applications.  ? Actively involved in using AngularJS, HTML5 to enable client side date to meets specific criteria by applying various validation variables and used the AngularJS validation CSS classes to provide visual feedback on validation.  ? Created proof-of-concept using responsive web design, Node JS, HTML5 and CSS3.  ? Used Web-pack to build Typescript modules.  ? Designed applications that execute on various browsers such as Internet Explorer, Mozilla.  Firefox, Google chrome and opera using various debugging tools like firebug/IE developer tools.  ? Involved in the creation of interface to manage user menu and Bulk update of Attributes using Angular.js  ? Used CSS Preprocessors like LESS and SASS to increase user experience for button.  ? Worked on creating responsive website for smart devices using Responsive design and media queries.  ? Implement JQuery plug-in to navigate to different section of the page of the application using DOM elements.  ? Developed the Services using AWS ElasticSearch, Restful Services using JAX-RS and Java.  ? Created QUnit test interface allowing for complete testing of core framework custom JavaScript code.  ? We setup the development environment using Node.JS, NPM, Grunt, Bower, GIT.  ? Used GWT as Java libraries to approaches to UI abstraction.  ? Built Web pages that are more user-interactive using jQuery plugins for Drag and Drop, AutoComplete, JSON, Angular JS, native JavaScript and Bootstrap.  ? Used React-Router to turn application into Single Page Application  ? Used React flux to polish the data and for single directional flow.  ? Used Middleware, Redux-Promise in application to retrieve data from Back-End and to also perform RESTFUL services.  ? Work closely with backend end team and content management team to deliver and implement the UI Code.  ? Used AJAX and JSON to process asynchronous actions between front and back end  ? Involved in responsive web design  ? Implemented application deployment on Apache Tomcat web Server.  ? Compile a system design procedure proposal that meets every requirement and follows agile methodology.  ? Working Knowledge of Grunt, Bower and Karma in case of compilation, unit testing Etc.  ? Used SVN for Source Control and Version Management  ? Used GIT for version control and handled unit testing using Jasmine and Karma.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, Java Script, JQuery, AJAX, Kendo UI, MongoDB, Angular.js 1.5, angular 2.0 , React JS ,Backbone.js, Can JS, Bootstrap, Responsive Design, XML, XHTML,Typescript, JQuery UI, Photoshop, Cold Fusion ,Dreamweaver, JSON, DOM, SOAP, JSP, JSF, agile ,Grunt, Gulp QUnit, PHP,SVN and Windows. UI/UX Developer Intermountain Healthcare - Salt Lake City, UT April 2015 to September 2016 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in development and finalization of initial design of the application and worked with content Managers, copywriters and designers to resolve the issues.  ? Developed User Interface and web page screens for various modules using Html, CSS, JavaScript, and AJAX and Angular JS and Node JS.  ? Communicated with the business partner and settled down the business requirements.  ? Analyzed business requirements and prepared for the Project Design and Plan Document.  ? Designed Frontend with in object oriented JavaScript Framework like bootstrap, Node.js, -Angular.js. Implemented MVC framework to use AngularJS.  ? Designed web pages using Cold Fusion, HTML, and JavaScript.  ? Used ASP.NET 2.0 and C# Server controls, User Controls and HTML controls.  ? Defined all AngularJS controllers in a JS file and reused in various pages of application.  ? Designed and developed custom JQuery components for the front-end client side validations.  ? Implemented Angular service calls using Angular Factory.  ? Developed CSS page layouts, styles and table less coding for efficient design.  ? Designed DOM based interactive to reprogram selected links and adopted WCAG 2.0 standards for HTML and XHTML and W3C standards for CSS as well.  ? Making the website structure responsive by obtaining Cross browser compatibility.  ? AngularJS is used to obtain features like templating, RESTfulAPI handling, AJAX handling and dependency injection.  ? Implemented Angular Directives to make customized components.  ? Implemented Object Oriented Programming, MVC architecture and Design Patterns in the development of Multi-Tier distributed enterprise applications.  ? Developed data insertion forms and validated them using JavaScript.  ? Applied multiple built-in Directives such as ng-model, ng-click into AngularJS application.  ? Developed web pages with rich UI layouts using designing tools the interaction between the pages using AJAX and JSON.  ? Developed an interface to seamlessly combine the new module with their login system by using AngularJS framework.  ? Jasmine is used for assertions and test double utilities and Mocha for having a test runner which is essential in unit testing.  ? Implemented MVC for designing Graphical User Interface which is used in web application.  ? Used JQuery plug-in for Drag-and-Drop, Widgets, Menus, User Interface and Forms.  ? Implemented AJAX for better user experience by dynamically providing Asynchronous request and response communication between the client and the server.  ? Used React JS for templating for faster compilation and developing reusable components.  ? Implemented Bootstrap to make sure that the website is compatible on all operating systems such as Linux PHP Laravel routes and authentication to extend the functionality of the server and configured the application using Apache server.  ? Implemented flux pattern by using redux framework as a core dependency.  ? Used SVN as version control tool to update work progress with other team members.  ? Setup Karma and Jasmine for UNIT and Functional Testing of JavaScript.  ? Actively participated and provided feedback in a constructive and insightful manner during daily and weekly iterative review meetings to track the progress for each iterative cycle and figure out the issues.    Environment: Angular JS, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, NodeJS, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, SVN, SQL, JSON, Microsoft Asp.Net MVC, JSON, Cold Fusion, RESTFUL web services, Visual Studio 2010. UI Developer Sonata Software Limited August 2013 to November 2014 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in Requirement analysis, design, and development and testing.  ? Responsible for developing the UI pages using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JSON, jQuery and Ajax.  ? Developed Page layouts, Navigations and presented designs and concepts to the clients and the management to review.  ? Used firebug, IE developer toolbar and chrome canary tool for debugging javascript and fixing issues.  ? Created a list forms to collect data and store it in SharePoint.  ? Experience with SOAP AND Restful web services.  ? Worked in scrum process attending daily stand up and completing tasks in sprints.  ? Involved in setting up the different roles & maintained authentication to the application.  ? Designed UI using HTML, Java Script, CSS and JSP.  ? Used Javascript for client side validations.  ? Involved in fixing defects & tracked them using QC & Provided support and maintenance and customization  ? Involved in running PMD defects & Find bugs.  ? Dealt with business processes and Updated Project documents.  ? Involved in validating the application for different browser compatibility & users load.    Environment: HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON, XML , Apache Maven, Eclipse, Notepad++, ORACLE, XML, HTML4.01, DHTML, Java Script, Servlets 2.4, CSS, AJAX, SVN, QC Edit Plus. Software Engineer Bajaj Allianz Ltd February 2013 to July 2013 Responsibilities:  ? Designed user interfaces, object model, application server logic and schema by analyzing requirements.  ? Designed UI pages using HTML, DHTML, JavaScript 1.8, JSP and Struts tag libraries.  ? Designed business applications using web technologies like HTML, DHTML, XHTML and CSS based on the W3C standards.  ? Worked on CSS Background, CSS Positioning, CSS Text, CSS Border, Pseudo classes, Pseudo elements etc.  ? Performed client side validations using JavaScript.  ? Developed data formatted web applications and deploy the script using client side scripting using JavaScript.  ? Coordinate with Interface Design Architects for meeting accessibility standards at code level.  ? Produced content pages with CSS3 layout and style markup presentations and also used JavaScript methods and properties.  ? Used AJAX extensively to implement front end /user interface features in the application.  ? Version control through SVN.  ? Extensively involved in Unit testing and coordinated with the testing team and fixing Bugs at various stages of the application development.    Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, XHTML, XML, DOM, Adobe Flash, Adobe Photoshop, Windows. Education Bachelor's Skills Visual studio, Application development, Git, Html, Javascript, Angular.js, Bootstrap, Typescript, Json, Svn, Xml, Ajax, Asp, Css, Saas, Tomcat, Web logic, Web services, Eclipse, Java, Front End, UI, Angular, React, Front-End Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Languages Javascript, JQUERY, AJAX, JAVA, JDBC, JSP, ASP, Dot Net  Web Technologies HTML5, CSS3, JAVASCRIPT, XML, UML  Frameworks REACT.JS, ANGULAR.JS, NODEJS, BOOTSTRAP  XML/ Web Services JAX-WS, APACHE CXF  Databases ORACLE 8I/9I/10G, MySQL, MS ACCESS  Application / Web Servers JBOSS, TOMCAT, WEB LOGIC  IDEs VISUAL STUDIO, ECLIPSE, EDIT PLUS, NET BEANS, STS, ATOM  Other Tools ANT, MAVEN, JUNIT, SVN, LOG4J, RATIONAL.GIT    PriceWaterhouseCoopers, Albany (New York) Dec 2018 - Till date  UI/UX Developer    ? Description: PWC is one of the major consulting and tax service clients across the globe.  ? Projects: Pwc's Global tax workspace Application for clients like,General Electrical(GE) and Berkshire Hathaway.  ? As A UI/UX developer, working closely with other developers on implementing the pwc workspace application development and business logic.  ? Implemented Angularjs Routing , services, States and Components concepts in the Application.  ? Worked on Angularjs directives ,controllers that can handle the several functionalities like navigation and it fits in to the various screen sizes(ipad,desktop).  ? Worked on Java,Spring backend frameworks.  ? Developed user interface by using the React JS, Flux for SPA development.  ? Implemented JSON large data based files in to the front end side using angularjs and javascript functionalities.  ? Created Responsive Grid based Model popups using the angularjs and javascript.  ? Implemented the angularjs service Http protocols that can call the databases and update the data in the front end side, wherever required.  ? Created TypeScript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component based architecture provided by Angular 7.  ? Integrated the javascript and jquery grid based (Gizmogrid Application) in to the core GTW application.  ? Developed email based templates in the application using the latest HTML-5 and CSS-3.  ? Implemented stable React components and stand-alone functions to be added to any future pages.  ? Worked on the Javascript Libraries like jquery, vanilla javascript, Packery js to implement the drag and drop div functionality in the Application.  ? Integrated Frontend code with JAVA.  ? Extensively Worked on Gitlab and Git Based Version Control.Worked on Creating Branches, Merging Branches to the Core Develop Branch,Git pull,Git push, Git commit and other commands.  ? Designed the Various Components and Templates Mockups for the Core Applications using the UX-PIN tool.  ? Environment: HTML5, CSS3, Java Script, Jquery, Java,Spring AJAX, SaaS,Typescript,Angular 1.5v, Bootstrap, Responsive Design, Packery.js,UX PIN, XML,Visual Studio code,Intellij Idea Webstorm, JSON, DOM, Java,Git,Gitlab,Windows.    Presbyterian Healthcare Services Albuquerque (New Mexico) Dec 2017 - Nov 2018  UI/UX Developer    Description: Presbyterian Healthcare Services is one of the major non-profit Healthcare Provider in New Mexico.