Sr. Lead ATG Developer Sr. Lead ATG <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Lead ATG Developer - Ascena Mahwah, NJ • Over 8+Years of technical expertise on analysis, design, development, deployment, integration, implementation, testing and supporting Real Time Applications with excellent stakeholder management skills.  • Development experience in high volume high scalable environment and involved in all SDLC life cycles.  • Experience in directly managing the high volume production environment for multiple large retail clients and ability to deliver work under pressure, with in timelines and of high quality.  • Performance monitoring and troubleshooting using SPLUNK tool.  • Functional experience in SCM modules like Order Management, Purchasing, and Inventory  • Front-end Development using JSP, JavaScript, JSON, jQuery, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON, Angular JS.  • Translate wireframes, creative design, and functional requirements into functional HTML/ CSS / JavaScript  • Non Functional testing support for ATG and fine tune the code & configuration to meet the Service Level Agreements with business teams.  • Integrating with other systems TIBCO, OMS, PIM, SAP, DO (Delivery Options).  • Christmas scaling and data centre migration activities - make sure no impact and minimal downtime.  • Tracking all the live defects and prioritizing with product owners.  • Participated in creating and assisting Testers to create Load test scripts and monitoring them.  • Participated in SIT/UAT/NFT and providing the RCA for failures.  • Omniture report analysis and identifying the time taking process/ areas and thus helping to increase the order conversion rates.  • Work closely with stake holders (Client, Business Analyst, Quality Assurance Team) to ensure high quality deliverables  • Hands on experience in Software engineering models like SCRUM and Agile Methodologies and lead/ participate daily SCRUM meetings.  • Experience in writing integration test and unit test use cases using ATG Dust Case, JUnit.  • Understand client requirements and system specifications.  • Participate in iteration planning, project/task definition, assignation  • Improved code quality and efficiency by mentoring developers in challenging areas and by efficient code reviews.  • Experience in Oracle, DB2 and PL/SQL.  • Proficient on Application Servers - ATG 9.0/9.1,10.X,11.X, Web Logic 9.2 and Tomcat 6.0  • Solid background in Object-Oriented analysis and design. Very good at various Design Patterns, UML.  • Having Team Lead experience & Ability to train team members in creating solutions.  • Strong communication skills involving direct client interaction, onsite-offshore teams, third party services teams and ability to work independently with minimum supervision. Work Experience Sr. Lead ATG Developer Ascena - Mahwah, NJ April 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Writing core payment group components (BML, Tele check, paper check components) for the application.  • Writing out of box ATG Component according to the business needs, integration with Endeca as well.  • Involved in Database base design and modeling  • Fixing high level and critical bugs in the application.  • Developing form handler objects which interacts with Intra and CSR based application.  • Worked on Team track tickets raised by CSR  • Creating a high-level architecture document and development of critical components.  • Very good at ACC and BCC for content personalization, Service centers, merchandising and others etc  • Very good at ATG, Endeca Ecommerce products and out of box implementations.  • Involved in Database base design and modeling.  • Written web services in order to interact with third party SVS components.  • Axis is used to generate the stubs for making SOAP calls.  • Creating a high-level architecture document and development of critical components.  • Developing form handler objects which interacts with Intra and CSR based application.  • Involved in developing scheduler components for sending Mindset makeover weekly emails.  • Involved in Reposnys integration.  • Review the work done by the team members.  • Creating a high-level architecture document and development of critical components.    Environment: Java, ATG Dynamo 2006.3, ATG B2B Commerce, J2EE, Spring, ATG B2C Commerce, Catalog, Droplets, Repositories, form handlers, DSP/DSPEL tab library, Servlets, HTML, JavaScript, Jboss, Sub Version, SQL server, Oracle 9i &10g, Linux Environment. ATG Developer Businessneeds Inc - Walnut, CA July 2017 to March 2018 Responsibilities:  • Involved in collecting the business requirements for above projects.  • Developed JSP pages using different DSP tag libraries.  • Involved in Writing the Form Handlers, Droplets, Manager Classes, bean classes, Repository files in ATG Framework.  • Developed a new Web Service using Spring REST from scratch.  • Achieved the server side validations using Spring Framework.  • Strong experience of developing data models using Hibernate POJO's and configuring Hibernate persistence layer.  • Involved in implement filter category for to display phones and devices in phones and device page.  • Involved in Browse & Shop, Shopping Cart Modules for the Device, Plans, Features and Accessories page.  • Responsible for working on defects those are part of end to end flow.  • Worked with customizing pipeline managers and repositories.    Environment: Spring, Web Services (Soap, Rest), Hibernate, ATG 10.2, Jdk-1.6, Weblogic, ACC, BCC, Oracle 11g, SVN, ClearCase Windows XP, Eclipse. ATG Developer SEARS INC - Hoffman Estates, IL February 2015 to June 2017 Responsibilities:  • Front end application includes my account, search and browse, product details, shopping basket, checkout, payment, order placement and sending order to third party system for fulfillment. All this process includes implementation of ATG OOTB  • Customizing and integrating to different system via web services [login and profile handling, inventory check from third party system, getting delivery options and charges for order shipping, checking for staff discount eligibility, payment through multiple tender type - Voucher, Gift card and credit card, adding points for user order etc.]  • Direct integration to third party system through different ways like endeca for Search, Bazaar voice for reviews and ratings, Scene 7 for image, Choice Stream for personalization, Web analytics for User Activity Tracking, threat metrics and T3M for fraud check etc.  • Extensive work flow and BCC customization required across various modules across CA.  • Involved in the design and development of product induction from PIM to ATG, managing web hierarchy, pricing, promotions.  • Written a new pricing engine (rule based) and customization to accommodate points based promotions.  • Developed custom module to migrate the web hierarchy and promotions data from legacy system in to ATG.  • Involved in design and configuration of staging, beta preview and implemented switching.  • Troubleshooting and optimization of BCC publishing.  • Designed and developed IETL tool and involved in integrating the ETL tool for price recalculation and promotions transformation, also implemented multi-threading to improve the performance by many folds.  • Single point of contact for the BCC stream issues across all environments and tracking all the live defects and prioritizing with product owners.  • Kanban Point of Contact for Critical Production issues.  • Played a key role in setting the clustering environments for ATG and Endeca, for live site and NFT.  • Writing core payment group components (Card, Vouchers, Gift Card components) for the application.  • Writing out of box ATG Component according to the business needs  • Involved in Database base design and modeling.  • Fixing high level and critical bugs in the application.  • Developing form handler objects which interacts with Intra and CSR based application.  • Working with multiple streams to reduce the dependency  • Requirements analysis, proposing new web look & feel approaches to customer  • Designing Mock-Up GUI pages for modeling the screens for initial approval  • Implemented Role based access security to limit the functionality based on User Role    Environment: ATG 9.X, JBOSS, J2EE, OMS, Oracle 10G, XML, DOM, JavaScript, AJAX, Rest, Java, JSP, JSTL, Ant, Firebug Plug-in, Web Test. ATG Technology Analyst CERNER - Kansas City, MO April 2014 to January 2015 Responsibilities:  • Translate wireframes, creative design, and functional requirements into functional HTML/ CSS/ JavaScript  • involved for the page developing by using ATG droplets, form handlers and tags and also customization of the same as per the business need.  • Was involved in scenario server customization  • Was involved in integrations with other application like Triad Digital Media, e-Bay etc. Along with web service integrations. In Web service integrations have worked for both consuming as well as hosting web services.  • Responsible for creation of Organization repository and thus managing the pricing through pricelists based on users in organization.  • Creating Use cases, Writing web flow and controllers.  • Implemented enhancements based on Client requirement.  • Wrote JUnit Test cases for Unit testing.  • Good experience in implementation of Internationalization (i18n) in web applications Developed Web services and provided WSDL file to other team.  • Performed Client side validations using Java script.  • Wrote SQL queries and stored procedures to interact with the DB.  • As a point of contact in onsite for all the priority issues and helping in resolving blockers in the SIT and UAT environments.    Environment: ATG 9, Java, JSP, AJAX, Oracle, Eclipse, HTML, log4j, XML, CSS, SOAP UI and UNIX Software Engineer SEI Investments - Oaks, PA April 2013 to March 2014 Responsibilities:  • Converted the wireframes to the jsp's to view the history or archival data entered by the drivers of the truck and see the wage estimates given the driver information.  • Written the batch jobs with Structs framework with Hibernate as backend, which processes the different codes entered by driver in sequence and sends the prompts to the Mine frame system.  • Calculate the deductions in payroll based on the breaks taken by the truck drivers and sent the report to the payroll calculation system  • Supported the UAT and the production rollout.  • Worked on Java scripting Front end validation and HTML Frames Implementation.    Environment: Java, JavaScript, XML, JMS, Structs, Hibernate. Java Developer Verizon - Dallas, TX August 2011 to March 2013 Responsibilities:  • Interacted with Business Analysts for understanding & clarification of the Functional Requirements of the internal tool.  • Designed & Developed parser code using Java language, ECLIPSE & ANTLR tools.  • Created & executed Unit test cases.  • Defined Declarative Exception Handling to manage a better flow of System.  • Responsible for maintenance and support for this web application and tested using JUnit framework.  • Involved in Issue resolution and bug fixing.  • Involved in Configuration Management, Documentation & Preparation of status reports.  • Interaction with various stake holders of the project.    Environment: Java, UNIX, Putty, Subversion, Windows 2K, Notepad++, Internet Explorer 6.0 Java Developer Johnson & Johnson - Irvine, CA March 2010 to July 2011 Responsibilities:  • Created custom reports and EIB's using workday tenants.  • Created XSLT transformations for different output formats using SoapUI and WSDL.  • Responsible for gathering requirements.  • Responsible for Design document as per the requirements.  • Provide solutions for the product requirement.  • Involved in Unit Testing.  • Fixed critical errors and production issues in the project.  • Responsible for production support.  • Grooming and Mentoring offshore team and new team members at onsite in the project.    Environment: Workday tenants, Java, SoapUI, WSDL, Exchanger XML Editor 3.3, XSLT.