Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer - Shammam Consulting San Diego, CA Work Experience Software Developer Shammam Consulting June 2017 to Present Established the front end development of the company's largest Sencha/ExtJS Application.  Application built using Sencha Ext JS and LOC SMS Scripting.  ? Led the initial development of an ASP.NET Project written in HTML, CSS, jQuery, C#, and SQL. Developed ASP.NET proficiency and successfully delivered a working demo to the  client within one month.  ? Conceptualized integration of C# with LOC SMS and successfully delivered working  application which grocery stores can use to attain customer information.  ? Created reusable templates for common client needs such as landing pages, buttons for POS system, customized layouts, and functionalities for back-office uses.  ? Collaborated to create scripting reports using LOC SMS Scripts and SQL by client request.  ? Utilized SQL, ExtJS and LOC Scripting to create Dashboard with team in which clients can  Buy/Sell items and manage customer accounts.  ? Introduced and integrated git source control on multiple long term projects.  ? Led Design of company's first one lane only POS Front-End/Back End. Created Dashboard  with various functionalities clients needed for single POS Store utilizing HTML, CSS, LOC  Scripting and SQL for back-end.  ? Managed website for company and helped create different email templates for quarterly  newsletters helping clients stay up to date with POS changes. IT Technician Amazon Store 2013 to 2016 Managed online tools within store to increase efficiency. Sales grew by 20K annually.  ? Utilized software systems to organize and perform daily work to maintain online store.  ? Created system which helped employees track orders and inventory.  ? Created infrastructure for office that used Google Services to communicate and share  files. Education Bachelor of Arts in Psychology California State University of Bakersfield - Bakersfield, CA 2010 to 2014 Skills ASP, Git, HTML 5, Javascript (3 years), MySQL, jQuery, CSS (3 years), C (2 years), SQL (2 years) Links http://linkedIn.com/in/jorge-cruz Additional Information Technical Skills  ? Languages: C#, SQL, JavaScript, React, ExtJS, jQuery, HTML, CSS, Git  ? Skilled in WordPress and Sharepoint