Senior Xamarin Developer Senior Xamarin <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Xamarin Developer - TD Ameritrade Bank New York, NY • More than 8 Years of experience in Web Mobile Application Development & Designing.  • Extensively worked with Android SDK, IOS SDK and Eclipse IDE along with Android ADT plug in.  • Experienced in Testing across Mobile App, Mobile Web Testing for iOS and Android Platforms.  • Excellent experience in developing applications using Xamarin Studio.  • Built native iOS and Android applications using Android SDK, IOS SDK in Xamarin.  • Excellent knowledge and experience in Oracle Database, DB2, PL/SQL, MS SQL Server, My SQL Server, Mongo DB.  • Experience working in various Software Development Methodologies like Waterfall, Agile SCRUM and TDD.  • Expertise in integrated environment for java such as Eclipse, MyEclipse, RAD, NetBeans, ClearCase and VSS.  • Experience in developing and implementing Web Services using SOAP, WSDL  • Good at Documenting and Understanding User requirements and System Specifications.  • Excellent Client interaction skills and proven experience in working independently as well as in a team.  • Experienced in Creating Domain Model, Activity Diagrams, Use Case diagrams, class diagrams, sequence diagrams and Object Model.  • Possessing strong analytical skills, an excellent team player with good leadership qualities and strong oral and written communication skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Xamarin Developer TD Ameritrade Bank - Bethesda, MD July 2018 to Present TD Bank is a bank holding company that offers banking, insurance, brokerage, and investment banking services. Worked with commercial and on-line banking products to offer an internet solution to cash management. Project was initiated to manage receivables, customer payments and incoming cash flows with timely and efficient cash collection services.    Key Roles & Responsibilities  • UI implementation using MVVM pattern, (XAML, WPF, Microsoft Visual Studio and Expression Blend, Xamarin Studio + XCode), ReactiveUI  • Developed mobile (iPhone) application for site utilizing the Xamarin Mobile platform, Apple XCode.  • Develop OSX code using Xamarin.Mac  • Worked with Xamarin, developing mobile applications for iOS, Android, and Windows, connecting iPad and Android tablets to vehicles.  • Developed android, iOS Mobile cross platform app by Xamarin.forms/xaml.  • Designed the Cross-Platform software architecture using Xamarin.Forms  • Developed UI components using ASP.NET and C#.NET.  • Served as developer architect for the application involving heavy use of ASP.NET, C#.NET, JavaScript, AJAX, XML, SQL, T-SQL, XHTML, CSS.  • Developed iOS/Android mobile games with Unity3d game engine in C#. Built RESTful web service/JSON as backend using AWS API gateway, Lambda/NodeJS, S3, RDS and SES.  • Developed web-centric applications using HTML/DHTML, XML, XAML, JavaScript, CSS and IIS, developing applications using the ASP.NET MVC, ADO.NET Entity Framework.  • Used WPF to create XAML browser application.  • Propose and implement Service Improvement Plans in Support Design and implement of PCLs for handling database connections across platform using SQLite.NET  • sed Core data Framework for local storage purpose in SQLite.Net  • Mobile application development utilizing Javascript API Framework  • Mobile-Web, Enyo R&D, created 8 PhoneGap Android, iOS, Window-Mobile plug-ins  • Worked in team to develop iOS and Android application.  • Architected and built Android Native, iOS and AppMobi/PhoneGap-based mobile applications interfacing with external RESTful and SOAP-based web services, interacting with external design group for UX and transforming/translating design-level requirements into functional requirements for same..  • Worked on full software development cycle from concept through deployment for iOS and Android.  • Maintaining and debugging Android project that communicates with proprietary Bluetooth devices  • Develop a real time sports management web platform using SQL, JQuery Mobile and Flex.  • Designed and implemented database structure in MySQL Server.  • Conceptualized, designed, developed and deployed mobile applications using iOS SDK, Xcode.  • Used Android SDK and Eclipse IDE for development  • Developed an app for an augmented reality device that points towards the direction of the sound source using Android Studio and machine learning methods.  • Involving in Building the modules in Linux environment with ant script.  • Created directory structure flow using UNIX to receive and send data to internal and external systems  • Designed and implemented using iPhone SDK, XCode, Objective C and Interface Builder.  • Implementing native libraries in application by using Android SDK and Android NDK.  • Debugging and problem-solving skills with Eclipse, Android Studio, IntelliJ IDEA, and RAD.  • Designed and developed multi-protocol telecom Single-Page Architecture application using Node.js, Express and Jade on the backend  • Worked with iPhone application development using iPhone SDK, C#.NET, Xamarin Studio and Xcode  • Data modeling using Database development skills in Oracle, MySQL, PostgreSQL.  • Developed .NET components using C# and involved in the deployment of those components.  • Design and Develop programs in C++ to integrate as per the users requirements.  • Co-developed a new tool on the Express nodeJS/backBone.js MVC platform that allows marketers to insert dynamic content in email sends based on location and temporal factors  • Developed localizable GUIs using JavaScript, C#, WCF and Silverlight for Microsoft.  • A native android application with the same functionality is developed in Java using Eclipse, Android SDK, HTML, jQuery Mobile, CSS, PhoneGa.  • Built a website using Amazon Web Services(AWS) with PHP, MySQL.    Technologies used: Android, Android SDK, IOS, Objective C, Xamarin, C#, XAML, Xamarin.Forms, SQLite.NET ,XCode, C#, ASP.Net, JQuery Mobile, Silverlight, Actionscript, Iphone, Ipad, Angular, Typescript, HTML, CSS, Dojo Mobile, Agile, Scrum, Eclipse, Android Studio, RAD, DB2 ,PL/SQL, JDBC, Oracle, SOAP, Web Services, Linux, Unix, Eclipse, Git, Github, UML Sr. Mobile Developer Cisco - San Jose, CA June 2016 to July 2018 Cisco Systems was one of the first commercially successful companies for routers supporting multiple network protocols. The Project was involved with Collaborate site which is used to store all the Project related information and on Project Quest including its details.    Key Roles & Responsibilities  • Created cross-platform mobile application prototypes with Adobe Air and PhoneGap.  • Designed the unique system logo and upgraded it to a brand new friendly web interface by JQtouch.  • Used Sencha Touch to create Android and iOS applications to support RoR app.  • Performed basic, system and performance testing on the iPhone/iPad application before sending them to the end to end testing team.  • Implemented live video broadcasting from Android camera to streaming server.  • Responsible for training of helpdesk personnel for BlackBerry and RightFax support.  • Developed portions of HTML5-based game for use in an online gambling promotion  • Implemented CSS3, DOM Api, DOJO and Ajax to create a dynamic and interactive experience.  • Used DOJO to create interactive user interface.  • Architected and implement REST api interfaces using javascript and Node.js.  • Delivered mobile app for book reading capability with HTML5 Sencha and online services with Flash/Flex.  • Developed portals using project specific custom components built in Flex.  • Develop Silverlight application using Onion/PRISM Architecture.  • Implemented business requirements using Actionscript.  • Used Spring for cross cutting concerns and IOC for dependency injection.  • Extensive experience using framework APIs like Struts, Spring, iBatis and Hibernate.  • Expertise in MVC Architecture using JSF and Struts framework and implementing custom tag libraries.  • Developed Web Java/J2EE application (JSP, EJB) using Struts/Tomcat/Xerces for Sybase, JBuilder.  • Involved in developing the UI panels using JSF, XHTML, CSS, DOJO and JQuery.  • Used Perl, Php and MySql to develop several web sites, SEO (search engine optimization) skills.  • Used TOAD for all database query testing and optimizations  • Involved in Creation, Manipulation and Supporting the SQL Server Database.  • Java and JSP developer for J2EE web application on WAS, DB2 and AIX.  • Written Web services using Apache Axis2 and generated the WSDL.  • Proficient use of developing applications using Eclipse, My Eclipse, RAD, NetBeans and ANT.  • Configuration and deployment of application on to Jboss application server  • Create and maintain Amazon EC2 instance that supports the companies project management site and Mercurial  • Created ClearCase VOBs and setup triggers and backups for a new project  • Implemented Selenium IDE with java script for Web apps.  • Expertise in employing Water Fall Model and best practices for software development  • Design and development of components, such as Class, and Sequence diagram in UML  • Developed Servlets and JSPs based on MVC pattern using Struts framework and Spring Framework.  • PHP, XML, CSS, Javascript  • Developed multiple web applications using Drupal, Zend Framework  • Design and implement existing and new website features using ASP.Net  • Design and Develop programs in C/C++ to integrate as per the users requirements.  • Have used JAXB to marshal and unmarshal java objects to Communicate with the backend mainframe system.  • J2EE to communicate legacy COBOL based mainframe implementations.  • Code development using PL/I, COBOL, JCL and DB2  • Developed using VB, Asp, C/C++, some java, javascript, vbscript, SQL, ADO record sets.    Technologies used: iOS/Android, PhoneGap, Sencha Touch, Jquery mobile, Java, Swing, Blackberry, Tablet, WebSphere, DB2, Netbeans, Jboss, Visual Source Safe, Selenium, Mercurial, Water Fall Model, UML, JSP , Servlet, ANT, XML, EMC Documentum, Jira, Swing, cognos, Ilog, Oracle ADF, Oracle BPM, IBMMq Series, Apachi Tomcat, Linux, Unix, Ruby Wordpress, Drupal , .Net , ASP, C++, Mainframe, COBOL , PL/I , JCL, SQL , SAS VB , ASP Lead Xamarin Developer Best Buy - Charlotte, NC May 2014 to June 2016 Best Buy is the world's largest multi-channel consumer electronics retailer with stores in the United States, Canada, China, and Mexico. Best Buy has the number one customer loyalty program of its kind and more than 1.6 billion visitors to our websites. At Best Buy I worked on several Best Buy public applications as well as customer relationship managements apps such as call center applications.    Key Roles & Responsibilities  • Developed applications using Xamarin Cross-mobile platform, Windows mobile , Android based devices, iOS, Swift, MvvM, MvvMLight, Cross, Xamarin forms, Xamarin native android layout ,Github cross platform Packages (SQLLite), ReactiveUI, Appcelator Titanium, C#, MVC, C++, STL.  • Used Xamarin form to create a cross platform mobile application  • Aided in the delivery of a Xamarin Forms project for both the iOS and Android platforms for one of their own  • Worked to develop a Xamarin Forms support library for the overall project goals in Xamarin Forms. This new library allowed me to reference the beaconing SDK libraries inside the existing Xamarin Form mobile application and covered the different options for delivering these  • Created some additional support libraries for the Xamarin Forms project to deal with mobile  • Incorporated the use of Xamarin Insights into the Xamarin Forms project to accumulate statistics and better  • Development using iPhone SDK, C#.NET, Xamarin Studio and Xcode having developed successful iOS (both iPhone & iPad) applications.  • Implemented the project using C# Programming Language and Xamarin Environment.  • Developed applications using Visual Studio, C#, and a combination of Windows Services, IBM MQ Series, and ASP.Net Ajax enabled web sites.  • Used test driven development(TDD) with agile methodologies for development. Used .Net features such as Async/Await,  • Used SQLite.NET with Xamarin.Forms and MVVM for reading and writing data to a local SQLite database.  • Added new functionality to an existing Xamarin Forms installer app, including UI screens, offline data capabilities (using SQLite.Net), customized list views, and custom picker controls.  • Designed and implemented the Portable class libraries (PCL) for handling database connections across platform using SQLite.NET.  • Develop for iOS, IoT, Android & Windows - integrate web and social media, Xamarin Forms, Xamarin.Android, Xamarin.iOS, Bing Maps and Search, Microsoft Azure Media and Mobile Services.  • Developed application using C# with Xamarin for both Android and iOS.  • Involved in developing hybrid mobile applications in iOS and Android development. Using Javascript.  • Architected a customized network protocol used by client applications including Android, iOS and Windows Phone 7 to communicate with cloud architectures.  • Architected and coded mobile hybrid applications (iOS and Android) using pure HTML5, CSS and JavaScript codebases.  • Developing a multi platform phone app for iOS, Android, Windows Phone 7.  • Development mobile web application for Android, iOS.  • Full redesigned of the Mobile App from Objective C to Swift.  • Worked on JDBC to select and update the data from the MySQL database  • Implemented apps with Google new SDK implementation, new features in Android SDK  • Used native and third party technologies to optimize the app functionality including Android Studio.  • Repurposed the Content of web for Mobile using jQuery mobile & launched a Mobile Application.  • Cooperated with R&D team for developing front end solutions using JQuery Mobile  • Worked on the MySQL migration project .To make the system completely independent of the database.  • Installed and configured the development environment using Web-logic on Windows NT and LINUX  • Used Resource Manager to schedule the job in Unix server.  • Technology leadership for the direction of the Cloud based application using Node.JS, PDFJS, Sencha, MongoDB and MS SQL Server integrating to a proprietary framework.  • Played a key role in writing application logic using Eclipse IDE and Android SDK.  • Developed an android mobile application based on Android Studio  • Architected and implement REST api interfaces using javascript and Node.js  • Created ASP.NET User Controls and Master pages to reduce the complexity of user interface design and to have a common look and feel.  • Developed a C# and Silverlight front-end application to access the web service  • Created Flex classes (actionscript and MXML files ) using Flex PureMVC pattern.  • Developed applications using a combination of Java with Android SDK, and Java    Technologies used: Android, Android SDK, IOS, Xamarin, XAML, Xamarin.Forms, SQLite.NET ,Silverlight, Iphone, Ipad, Objective C, XCode, Swift, Asp.Net, C#, Angular, Typescript, HTML, CSS, JSON, Jquery Mobile, Eclipse, RAD, Oracle, PL/SQL, MySql, MS-Sql, JDBC, Android Studio, Web Services, SOAP, REST, Agile, Scrum, Linux, Unix Software Developer Delta Dental Health - San Francisco, CA April 2011 to May 2014 Group Abstract Management and Maintenance Application: The enterprise abstract system, GAMMA, will allow a user to create or revise a summary of a group's agreement with Delta for a contract effective and end date. The Group Records department maintains this, with approval from other areas. It is used by internal Delta departments such as Actuarial, Contracts and anyone interested in viewing the Group's abstract, working with team in developing a Web Application of GAMMA for Delta Dental. The project involves developing and creating health web pages, GAMMA portal to manage its services and maintaining health education database.    Key Roles & Responsibilities  • Understanding the Domain Knowledge for the Product, Requirements and Design Documents  • Wrote multithreaded programs to measure system performance  • Worked on GUI internationalization using JSP and Core Java  • Used Mercurial to keep track of versioning of the source code  • Worked on bug fixing  • Used JDBC APIs for database connectivity and data retrieval.  • Worked on various client websites that used Struts framework, Hibernate and OGNL  • Wrote test cases using JUnit testing framework.  • Involved in debugging the product using Eclipse and JIRA Bug Tracking.  • Involved in writing stored procedures, view, user-defined functions and triggers in SQL Server database for Reports module.  • Simulation was developed using C++.  • Implemented real-time patient prescription history verification system using C, Oracle PL/SQL.  • Used Visual Source Safe for source control.  • Manipulated data and performed data preparation using TSO, ISPF and SPF system utilities.  • Developed and implemented Legacy system programs by using COBOL, DB2, CICS, JCL, JAVA and VSAM.  • Wrote stored procedures in Oracle PL/SQL for data entry and retrieval.  • Extracted and modified data from VSAM files for PDF reports.  • Automate nightly batch processing and job alerts using REXX.  • Responsible for migrating Websphere server and migrating IBM CICS Transaction.  • J2EE to communicate legacy COBOL based mainframe implementations.  • Designed and developed Message Flows and Message Sets and other service component to expose Mainframe applications to enterprise J2EE applications.  • Use FileAid datasets to validate backend results of test events.  • Configuring and analyzing JCL to execute mainframe batch.  • Actively involved in contributing to RFP and POC activities in IMS.  • Used standard data access technologies like JDBC and ORM tool like Hibernate  • Designed, implemented new website features and provided support, maintenance.    Technologies used: Core Java, JSP, JUnit, Mercurial, Eclipse, .Net, JIRA, JDBC, Struts, Hibernate, Visual Source Safe, Weblogic, Oracle , OGNL, C, C++, Linux, MS SQL Server, COBOL, FileAid, REXX, ISPF, Mainframe, CICS, IMS, VSAM, JCL. Education Bachelor's Skills Eclipse (8 years), Ms sql server (7 years), Oracle (8 years), Sql (8 years), Sql server (7 years) Additional Information Technical Knowledge:    Technologies: Xamarin, iPhone, iPad, Android, Windows Phone 7, Blackberry, iOS, Titanium, PhoneGap, Sencha Touch, Jquery mobile, Backbone.js  Web: Flex, JSF, Struts, Spring, Hibernate, WebSphere, WebLogic, Jboss, Tomcat  Databases: SQL Server, Oracle, MySQL, DB2  Tools: Eclipse, Flex Builder, NetBeans, RSA, MS Visio  Platforms: Windows, UNIX  Design Patterns: Observer, Strategy, Iterator, Command, State, COR, Bridge, Factory, Visitor Composite  SDLC Methodologies: Agile, RUP, CMMI