Sr. Salesforce.com Developer/ Admin Sr. Salesforce.com <span class="hl">Developer</span>/ Admin Sr. Salesforce.com Developer/ Admin - Salesforce.com Pittsburgh, PA • Having 8+years of professional IT experience and 5+ years of experience in Salesforce.com CRM platform using Visual force, Apex and Java Technologies as Developer and administrator.  • Experienced in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), quality management systems and project life cycle processes.  • Experienced in developing business logic for Salesforce.com using Force.com Apex triggers and Apex classes.  • Strong in creating various Page Layouts profiles, search layouts to organize fields, custom links and configured the User permissions based on the organizational hierarchy.  • Having strong Knowledge in Salesforce Administration and Customization, Data Validation, Sales and Marketing Clouds.  • Experience in creating custom objects and integrating existing desktop and web apps with legacy mainframe systems.  • Implemented pick lists, dependent pick lists, lookups, junction objects, master detail relationships, validation and formula fields to the custom objects.  • Excellent knowledge and understanding of Salesforce CRM functions like Campaign Management, Lead Management, Account Management, Case Management, Quote, Forecasting, and Call Center.  • Experience creating Email Templates, Workflows, Workflow Actions and Approval Process.  • Well versed with Sales cloud, Service cloud, and Custom Cloud, Chatter and App Exchange applications.  • Developed Cascading Style Sheets (CSS) for creating effects in Visualforce page.  • Experience in building Visual Force Pages, Custom Controllers, Apex Components, Apex Triggers, SOQL and SOSL.  • Proficient with Record Types, Reports and Dashboards and Public Groups creation and User Management.  • Hands on Experience in creating Custom Objects, Custom fields, Custom Tabs, and various other components as per requirements.  • Knowledge on enforce standards and best practices around data modeling efforts.  • Experience in analyzing business requirements, Entity Relationship diagram (ERD) and implementing them to Salesforce objects, master-detail relationships, and Junction Object and lookup relationships.  • Experience in data migration from ACT, Excel, MS outlook and Legacy Systems using Data Loader, Import Wizard, and Informatica on Demand, Pervasive Data Integrator.  • Expert in generating and analyzing custom reports and dashboard for management and various business unit personnel to provide detail information on key performance indicators.  • Expertise in implementing Salesforce database queries using SOSL & SOQL.  • Knowledge of WSDL, web services SOAP API, REST API both standard and apex based, force.com external callouts, Asynchronous classes, Batch Apex and Schedule Apex Programs.  • Knowledge on web technologies like HTML, CSS, XML and JavaScript.  • Good understanding of Overall SFDC Architecture & landscape.  • Designed custom formula fields, field dependencies, validation rules, workflow rules and approval processes for automated alerts, field updates and email generation according to application requirements.  • Knowledge in integration with CastIron,Informatica on Demand, SAP PI  • Good experience in working with off shore teams and coordinating with business and offshore team to meet the requirements.  • Excellent communication and inter-personal skills, accustomed to working in both large and small team environment Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Salesforce.com Developer/ Admin Mylan - Pittsburgh, PA July 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Implemented the Salesforce.com applications using Agile SCRUM Methodology that involves the iterative development.  • Implemented Salesforce best practices while writing Apex Triggers, Apex Controller classes, Utility classes with consideration of Governor Limits.  • Written apex triggers on Standard and Custom objects to perform various customizations based on the stories provided by different business groups.  • Written apex batch classes to process large data updates, queried large datasets and exported to excel.  • Developed apex SOAP and REST web service classes for external customers to consume Salesforce data. Worked on Sales Cloud implementations in two different projects.  • Used Relationship, Aggregate queries using SOQL, SOSL to query and search records from Salesforce platform database.  • Developed custom Visualforce components and implemented components at different Visualforce pages.  • Worked on customization of sales cloud standard objects - Accounts, Contacts, Opportunity, Campaign, Lead, Cases, Knowledge and Articles.  • Worked in developing various lightning components, events and lightning applications.  • Created Lightning Component Tabs and Visualforce Tabs.  • Created Visualforce pages that use the lightning components.  • Worked on Advance Salesforce authentication salesforce1 for application authentication  • Performed admin tasks for customizing Users, Roles, Profiles, Permission Sets, Network filtering, Single Sign-On, Sharing Rules.  • Worked on customizing Salesforce OOTB features - Creating Search Layouts, Record Types, Page layout assignment based on Record Type, Custom links.  • Implemented custom business logic using Salesforce declaratives - Validation rules, Formula Fields, Process builder, Workflow rules and Approval Process.  • Experience integrating SFDC with applications like AS400, Oracle, FTP, BOX.Com, Mule soft, AWS.  • Implemented Salesforce web services like SOAP and REST API, Java, XML.  • Worked with Integration and web services. Integrated Salesforce with legacy systems using Apex Web services and outbound messaging.  Lightning Responsibilities:  • Worked on numerous lightning components.  • Created various charts using Lightning component.  • Worked on cross platform usage of the project functionality using Lightning.  • Created a user interface in Lightning using Aura components, CSS, Bootstrap for a user to enter case details and submit in to Salesforce.  • Used Salesforce Lightning Inspector to debug the lightning components during the development process.  • Created Apex methods for the lightning controller and helper methods to perform DML operations on the case records.  • Used Salesforce1 simulator during the development to test if the lightning components works properly on the mobile device.  • Worked on setup two factor authentication login requirements for Single Sign On.  • Developed Salesforce Lightening applications using Lightening components, Controllers and Events and used custom CSS in the components.  • Enhanced in Communities by adding new fields, field sets using Salesforce lightning.  • Adding Lightning components to salesforce1 using in Visual force page.    Environment: Salesforce.com platform, Data Loader, Apex Pages, Visualforce, Eclipse IDE, SOQL, SOSL, Integration, Apttus CPQ, Sales & service & CRM cloud, Sand box, Workflow & Approvals, Custom Reports, Dashboards, Informatica Sr. Salesforce.com Developer Salesforce.com - Irving, TX October 2015 to June 2017 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Design, development, testing, documenting, and deploy high quality business solutions on the SFDC platform based on industry best practices as well as business needs and maintaining interfaces from legacy system.  • Used SOQL & SOSL with consideration to Manage Limits for data manipulation needs of the application using platform database objects.  • Developed different Visual Force Pages using visual force components and configured them for great UI experience.  • Using version control system - SVN for managing source code.  • Have used Eclipse IDE and Change Set, Auto Rabit to deploy all the classes, triggers, objects, components, pages from sandbox environment to production environment.  • Developed various Batch Apex classes and scheduled those using Apex Schedulable classes on hourly basis.  • Worked on enhancements for Salesforce application in production requested by business users from time to time.  • Designed, developed and deployed Apex Classes, Controller Classes and Apex Triggers, packages for various functional needs in the application.  • Worked on various SalesForce.com standard objects like Accounts, Contacts, Cases, Opportunities, Products, Opportunity Line Items, Leads, and Campaigns.  • Using Java application integrated Salesforce by using SOAP, WSDL and BULK API to retrieve data for different objects, get record count, and generate queries.  • Extensively involved in design and configuration of objects, page-layouts, record types, search layouts, list views, validation rules, workflows, Approval Process, custom buttons, custom link, report types, reports, and dashboard.  • Worked on Email Services and Single Email and Mass Email to send email to different portal users.  • Design the Application security and data access per the complex need of business using profiles, roles, Org wide defaults, record level s security, field level security, page-layouts and record types.  • Developed Workflow Rules, Time-Dependent Workflow Actions, Email Alerts and Field Updates.  • Creating triggers to enforce constraints on the fields and schedule tasks.  • Designed and developed Apex classes, controller classes, controller extensions, Visual force pages and Apex triggers.  • Creating web services using Apex to integrate data from different platforms in to force.com.  • Creating unit cases to test Apex classes and triggers.  • Used Force.com Ant based migration tool, Change sets for deploying components from sandbox to other sandbox and production instances.  • Developed Cascading Style Sheets (CSS) for creating effects in Visualforce pages.  • Have used Eclipse IDE and Change Set to deploy all the classes, triggers, objects, components, pages from sandbox environment to production environment.  • Used Data Loader for insert, update, and bulk import or export of data from SalesForce.com Objects. Used it to read, extract, and load data from comma separated values (CSV) files.  • REST and SOAP based web services Data migration and integration and Integrating Salesforce.com software with 3rd party solutions, setting rules and parameters for various vendors access to the database.  • Implemented Sales Cloud to facilitate Campaign Management, Dashboard/Reports development, Lead Management, Content, Contracts, and Customer Service/Cases.  • SME for the instructional designer during training planning and development.  • Awarded as MVP (Most Valuable Person) for Extensive Involvement in Delivering the Project on Time.    Environment: Saleforce.com platform, Apex, Triggers, Test cases, Visualforce Pages, VF components, CSS, Java Script, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects, SOQL, Email Services, Force.com IDE, Windows 7, Creation of Custom Objects, , Force.com IDE, Apex Data loader, REST, SOAP, Data Migration. Developer/ Admin Sr.Salesforce.com - Washington, DC May 2014 to September 2015 Responsibilities:  • Used Force.com developer toolkit including Apex Classes, Apex Triggers and Visualforce pages to develop custom business logic  • Involved in Salesforce.com application setup activities and customized the app to meet the functional requirements.  • Involved in business requirement gathering, analyzing the requirement, and documenting the requirements.  • Using Agile Development Methodology for developing this project.  • Created page layouts, search layouts, custom links, and related lists.  • Implemented pick lists, dependent pick lists, lookups, junction objects, master detail relationships, validation rules and formula fields.  • Designed and developed Apex classes, controller classes, controller extensions, Visualforce pages and Apex triggers.  • Developed workflows and approval processes for various policy managements.  • Configured profile based security on Object/Field Level.  • Created email templates and inbound emails using Visualforce for the clients and customers.  • Developed web services for integrations to create/update/get data from Salesforce (Case, Entitlement, Service Contract, Bug, etc.) to bug triage systems (TFS, Star Team) and master database management (MDM) system.  • Used SOQL&SOSL with consideration to Governor Limits for data manipulation needs of the application using platform database objects.  • Supported with the setup and testing in "Sandbox" situations to encourage achievement improvement and QA testing of new Fields and objects.  • Assisted with SFDC data imports and maintained interfaces between IBM Data Stage and Salesforce.  • Involved in gathering requirements to feedback from business users.  • Plan task allocation for off-shore resources and track work completion status at various intervals  • Used Process Builder to automate business process for minor customizations.  • Created outbound messages to sync data with bug triage systems and MDM system.  • Providing ongoing salesforce.com maintenance and administration services including periodic customizations, code fixes.  • Created workflow rules and defined related tasks, time triggered tasks, email alerts, field updates to implement business logic.    Environment: Saleforce.com platform, Apex, Visualforce Pages, HTML, Java Script, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects, SOQL, Email Services, Force.com IDE, Windows 7, Creation of Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Security Controls, Workflows, Process Builder, Reports, Dashboards, Force.com IDE. Developer Sr.Salesforce.com - Detroit, MI October 2012 to October 2012 -Aprl'14    Responsibilities:  • Interacted with various business user groups for gathering the requirements for Salesforce implementation and documented the Business and Software Requirements.  • Perform detailed analysis of business and technical requirements and designed the solution by customizing various standard objects of Salesforce.com (SFDC) and other Platform based technologies like Visualforce, Force.com API, and WebServices.  • Worked closely with sales team and business analysts and performed detailed analysis to drive Successful implementations of new projects, adopting data quality and best practices of use.  • Helped in understanding the needs of the clients and successfully able to bridge the gap between technical and non-technical people.  • Created page layouts, search layouts to organize fields, custom links, related lists, and other components on a record detail and edit pages.  • Created workflow rules and defined related tasks, time triggered tasks, email alerts, filed updates to implement business logic.  • Created templates, approval processes, approval page layouts and defined approval actions on them to automate the processes.  • Created profiles and implemented Object and field level security to hide critical information on the profile users.  • Created users, roles, public groups and implemented role hierarchies, sharing rules and record level permissions to provide shared access among different users.  • Assist in the configuration and maintenance of "Sandbox" environments to facilitate success development and QA testing of new on-demand features and functionality.  • Designed, and developed Visualforce pages and Apex Triggers for various functional needs in the application.  • Planned and performed analysis of e-commerce activities and/or functions and guides the subsequent design and implementation or improvement of existing ecommerce applications  • Integration with SAP PI for pushing user feed from PeopleSoft to Salesforce  • Created various Reports (summary reports, matrix reports, pie charts, dashboards and graphics) and Report Folders to assist managers to better utilize Salesforce as a sales tool and configured various Reports and for different user profiles    Environment: Salesforce.com Unlimited Edition, Sales Cloud, Chatter Cloud, Creation of Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Security Controls, Reports, Dashboards, Force.com IDE, SAP PI, SOAPAPI, PeopleSoft. Associate Software Engineer Computer Sciences Corporation - Hyderabad, Telangana March 2010 to September 2012 Responsibilities:  • Design enhancements for migrating MEMBER Database to DB2.  • Creation/Debugging/Testing/Implementation of COBOL/DB2 Programs.  • Creation/ Debugging/Testing/Implementation of COBOL/VSAM Programs.  • Creation/ Debugging/Testing/Scheduling of JCLs.  • Coding the programs as per design using various mainframe technologies extensively.  • Testing the individual programs and integration testing of the system using mainframe Testing and Debugging Tools.  • Worked on Optimization initiatives.  • Define requirements using Quality Centre and generate Traceability Matrices to ensure that all the requirements are covered  • Used Quality center tool as a repository to store all the documentation    Environment: SQL Server 6.5 database, Quality Centre, Data storing, COBOL/DB2, COBOL/VSAM, Designed enhancements, Data Transferring, HTML. Education Bachelor's in Computer Science and Engineering GITAM UNIVERSITY Skills DATABASE (7 years), APEX (4 years), JAVA (4 years), WEB SERVICES (4 years), HTML (4 years), Angular, Drupal, AWS, C#, Telecommunication, Scala, MVC, API, NET Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information Technical Skills:    Salesforce Technologies:  Salesforce CRM, Salesforce SFA, Apex Language, Apex Classes/Controllers, Apex Triggers, SOQL, SOSL, Visual Force Pages / Components, S-Controls, Apex Web Services, AJAX, WF&Approvals, Dashboards, Analytic Snapshots, Custom Objects.    Salesforce Tools:  Eclipse, Force.com Eclipse IDE Plug-in, Force.com Explorer, Force.com Data Loader, Force.com Excel Connector, Force.com Platform (Sandbox and Production)    Database: MySQL 5.1, Oracle 8i/ 9i/ 10g/ 11g, Microsoft SQL Server  Web Services: SOAP, WSDL and RESTful  Web Design Tools: Visual Studio, Query Analyzer, Rational Rose  Firewalls: Palo Alto PA-500/2k/5k, Checkpoint R65/R70/R75/R76/R77, Cisco ASA  Hardware: Sonic Wall, SSL, CDP, HP / Compaq / Dell / IBM Servers  Languages: Apex, C, C++, Java, Java Script, UML, HTML, XML, XHTML, DHTML, SQL  Version control: SVN, Visual Source Safe and MKS    Operating Systems: Windows XP/Vista/7, Linux and Unix