Independent Consultant Independent Consultant Senior Consultant New York, NY Senior SAP consultant with 5+ years of experience in software development for implementations. Highly analytical and creative problem solver possessing robust breadth of subject matter knowledge across a multitude of industries, including construction/engineering/energy, logistics, food processing/packaging, manufacturing, and insurance/financial services. Well-versed in ABAP; various core ECC modules, such as FICO and SD; and other SAP products and disciplines, namely S/4 HANA and MDG. Diversified exposure to industry and consulting settings, including the high-pressure, deadline driven, Big Four environment. Client focused and results driven professional with an established reputation of rapidly learning and adapting to meet, if not exceed, expectations of clients ranging in size, from small manufacturing firms to mid-sized multi-million-dollar businesses and large multi-billion-dollar conglomerates. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Independent Consultant New York, NY April 2019 to Present Senior Consultant - Lead Developer Ernst & Young - New York, NY May 2018 to April 2019 • Led the design, development, and implementation of Master Data Management (MDM) via SAP Master Data Governance (MDG) on S/4 HANA for Business Partner, Supplier, and Customer.  • Contributed the greater portion of an 8-month effort to standardize reference and master data across numerous source Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) systems to ultimately sunset the MDM function across each ERP.  • Steered the hands-on configuration of Business Rules Framework Plus (BRF+), optimization of Workflow, and coding for Business Add-In (BAdI) customizations of MDG.  • Recommended business process and master data restructuring to balance out-of-the-box functionality, SAP/Industry Best Practices, and Current-to-Future system landscape in collaboration with client Subject Matter Experts (SMEs).  • Evaluated data volumes, department structures, resource pool, current/planned systems landscape, and special requests to recommend appropriate Service Level Agreements (SLAs) and Key Performance Indexes (KPIs) for the new MDM process.  • Assisted team implementing SAP Central Finance on S/4 Hana, mitigating issues in the interfaces between S/4 and MDG Software Configuration/Application Developer Accenture - New York, NY March 2017 to April 2018 • Implemented MDG for Supplier on S/4 HANA, augmenting the vendor onboarding process by incorporating the screening of vendors against the Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN).  • Designed workflows for MDM process and created program to simplify the import of data into custom reference data tables.  • Adapted to constantly changing System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) methodologies, spanning traditional Waterfall, Agile, Agile Scrum, Kanban, and finally Scrum-ban (a hybrid of Agile Scrum and Kanban).  • Simultaneously supported numerous instances of SAP ERP Central Component (ECC) alongside team in Europe, focusing on Report, Interface, Conversion, Enhancement, Form, and Workflow (RICEFW) objects spanning the Finance (FI), Sales & Distribution (SD), Materials Management (MM), Quality Management (QM), and Production Planning (PP) modules. Software Developer Kiewit Corporation - Omaha, NE January 2014 to February 2017 • Appointed as US-based team lead, overseeing support staff in Latin America and Asia; footprint of RICEFW objects spanned FI, Controlling (CO), SD, MM, Supplier Relationship Management (SRM), Warehouse Management (WM), Screen Personas, Portfolio & Project Management (PPM), and Human Capital Management (HCM) modules.  • Introduced multiple efficiencies in processes, resource management, and bilateral visibility of ongoing projects for a privately held Fortune 500 company, recognized as one of the top 10 construction and engineering conglomerates in the world.  • Developed multiple programs in ABAP, ranging from programs to automate the remittance of ACH payments to international banks, to track heavy construction equipment out in the field, and to enforce various company policies and standards.  • Collaborated with other developers in the standardization of virtual .Net development environments in Azure to expedite orchestration; this includes development of a SharePoint application to request and generate environments on demand. Lead Installation Engineer Blabfeed Incorporated - Omaha, NE September 2012 to December 2013 • Helped clients increase enrollment in their loyalty card programs, obtain additional sales at point of purchase, and increase customer retention by creating tailored, location-based marketing experiences for their venues.  • Met on-site with business clients to evaluate their marketing real estate for future placement of digital advertising displays.  • Facilitated the procurement, installation, and integration of digital marketing/communication technologies. Education BS/BA in International Business and Business Intelligence & Analytics Creighton University, Heider College of Business - Omaha, NE May 2014 International Business Università Cattolica del Sacro Cuore, College of Business - Milan, IT March 2013 Skills Abap (5 years), Sap (5 years), Visual studio (1 year), C# (1 year), MDG (2 years)