Salesforce Admin/ Developer Salesforce Admin/<span class="hl">Developer</span> Salesforce Admin/ Developer - Union Bank Sacramento, CA • 9 years of experience as an IT professional CRM Platform using APEX, Force.com and Visual Force.  • Experience in SFDC Development implementing the APEX classes, Triggers, S-Controls, components, Reports, Visual Force, Force.com IDE, Eclipse with SOQL, SOSL and Force.com plug-ins.  • Experience in Sales cloud, Service cloud, Custom cloud, Chatter and App Exchange applications.  • Good understanding of SAAS, PAAS and IAAS cloud computing services  • Experienced customizing standard objects like Accounts, Contacts, Opportunities, Products, Price books, Cases, Leads, Campaigns, Reports and Dashboards and in creating the Custom Objects with various field types.  • Hands-on lightning application development experience using SLDS and used custom CSS, Images, Icons in the Visual force pages, Components to have lightning experience.  • Developed Lightning components using Salesforce Lightning framework and experience with Components, Controllers and Handlers.  • Highly experienced in writing Apex Classes, Apex Triggers, developing Visual Force pages using standard and custom controllers.  • Experience with migration of CLM across environments including experience with the Apttus migration tool  • Business acumen as it relates to the CLM business process  • Acquainted and well versed with CRM processes like Sales, Marketing, Customer Service and Customer Support, Business Processes and recommended solutions to improve their processes using SFDC.  • Experienced in analyzing business requirements, Entity Relationship diagram and implementing them to Salesforce custom objects, junction objects, master-detail relationships and lookup relationships.  • Proficient in Data Migration from traditional applications to Salesforce using Apex Data Loader, Import Wizard and Data Manipulation Language.  • Expertise in working on Scheduled jobs and APEX Batch jobs and executed approval processes, e-mail services and workflows via customization.  • Experienced on working with API calls, REST and SOAP services for Integrating. Experienced with calls integration with the help of CTI.  • Successfully migrated from Salesforce classic to Lightning and developed the complete lightning project.  • Hands on experience in integrating Salesforce with other local servers using Informatica cloud.  • Exposure to different types of software development life cycle methodologies including agile methodology and have experience in using applications like JIRA, ALM and Rally for issue tracking and project management.  • Experienced working with various App exchange products or CPQ products like Salesforce CPQ (formerly SteelBrick CPQ), IBM sterling CPQ, APPTUS CPQ, CongaComposer and DocuSign  • Experience in Data management like Data Cleansing, Data loading using data.com and various tools  • Have good working knowledge in querying salesforce.com database using SOQL & SOSL queries and Governor Limits.  • Experience in working on Eclipse IDE with Force.com plug-in, command line interface.  • Experienced in Sandbox Management (Like Refreshing Sandbox, Creating New Sandbox, Migrating code from one sandbox to the other)  • Experience in creating various Reports (summary reports, matrix reports, pie charts, dashboards and graphics) and Report Folders  • Experience in integration of Salesforce.com with external applications by using Web Services API, SOAP and REST.  • Hands on experience working with HTML, XML, CSS, jQuery, JavaScript and AJAX  • Excellent communication skills, inter-personnel skills and highly flexible and accustomed to working in both large and small group settings.    TECHNICAL EXPERIENCE:  Salesforce Technologies: Salesforce CRM, Salesforce SFA, Apex Language, Apex Classes/Controllers,  Apex Triggers, SOQL, SOSL, Visualforce Pages / Components, S-Controls, Apex  Web Services, Workflow & Approvals, Dashboards, Analytic Snapshots, Custom  Objects.  Salesforce Tools: Eclipse, Force.com Eclipse IDE Plug-in, Force.com Explorer, Force.com Data  Loader, Force.com Excel Connector, Force.com Connect for Outlook Force.com  Platform (Sandbox, and Production), Data.com, Dupeblocker.  Databases: Oracle 10g, SQL Server 2008, MS Access Languages Apex, C, C++, Java Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Salesforce Admin/ Developer Union Bank - San Francisco Bay Area, CA July 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in the complete salesforce development activities for the entire organization after the initial package deployed by Salesforce.com.  • Involve in developing visualforce pages, triggers and apex classes based on the requirements.  • Create page layouts, search layouts to organize fields, custom links, related lists, and other components on a record detail and edit pages.  • Implement pick lists, dependent pick lists, lookups, junction objects, master detail relationships, validation and formula fields to the custom objects, Web to case, Email to case.  • Worked on various scenarios of Salesforce.com APIs like SOAP, REST.  • Designed, developed and deployed Apex Classes, Controller Classes, Extensions and Apex Triggers for various functional needs in the application using the Eclipse IDE.  • Designed, and developed the Custom objects, validation rules, Page layouts, Custom tabs, components, VisualForce Pages to suit to the needs of the application.  • Adhered to the Best Practices by avoiding Governor Limits in SOQL and SOSL statements within the custom Controllers, Extensions, and Triggers.  • Created Workflow rules, Process Builder, Visual Flows and defined related tasks, email alerts, and field updates for Business Automation.  • Worked extensively on managing Products, Categories, Product Attributes, and defining Product Visibility for Apttus CPQ package.  • Developed Apex Classes, Apex Triggers, Visual force Pages and Custom Controller classes for various functional needs in the application.  • Experience with the integrating SFDC and AppExchange partners such as CPQ/Apttus.  • Adhering to the best Practices while creating Triggers.  • Used Salesforce Automation for Territory Management and Opportunity Management.  • Worked extensively with Sales cloud sharing model, user management, workflows, assignment rules, validation rules, records, dashboards and Reports.  • Integrated Salesforce.com with External Applications like using SOAP/REST API based web services.  • Worked on Salesforce Lightning (Lightning Design Systems, App Design and Lightning Components).  • Created and modified templates using Apptus CPQ & Author CLM. Modified profiles and permission set access as per requirement.  • Developed solutions on the Force.com platform, strong understanding of Apttus Contract Lifecycle Management (CLM) and Apttus Configure Price Quote (CPQ).  • Worked on designing and developing Lightning Community Builder and developed Lightning Components.  • Assisting in migrating existing functionalities from Salesforce classic interface to lightning interface.  • Refactoring of code to fix the existing issues in the sequence of operations on real-time.  • Worked closely with users to understand the issues and fix them.  • Develop test classes and maintain sufficient organizational code coverage.  • Incharge for fixing deployment issues and ensure successful deployment through changesets and Force.com IDE.    Environment: Saleforce.com platform, Informatica Cloud, Agile-TFS, Force.com API, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Email Services, Visual Force,Salesforce.com Data Loader, Apttus CPQ,Security Controls, HTML, Java Script, Sandbox, Change Sets, Eclipse IDE Plug-in. Salesforce Developer Glaxo Smith Kline GSK - Durham, NC June 2016 to July 2018 Responsibilities:  • Worked closely with sales team and business analysts and performed detailed analysis of business and technical requirements. Designed the solution by customizing various standard objects of Salesforce (SFDC).  • Developed Reports, dashboards, and processes to continuously monitor data quality and integrity    • Created Reports and dashboards for each geography within service lines based on necessary analytics    • Develop, maintain and continually enhance a strategy around Tableau Data (TDE) files. Partner with the security team to develop standards for hosting Tableau services/application.  • Work with Business Applications, Business Analytics, and Sales Operations Team, this position will influence best practices in Analytics development, and related apps and tools.  • Worked on Heroku Deployments while integrating with different environments.  • Defines business requirements and creates high-level architectural specifications, ensuring feasibility, functionality, and integration with Salesforce and internal existing systems/platforms.  • Worked on the Front-end UI like HTML, XML, CSS, JSP, JavaScript, Ajax, WSDL and SOAP. Experience developing with JavaScript, HTML5, and CSS3    • Knowledge of JavaScript frameworks including jQuery, Bootstrap.  • Involved in Salesforce Wave Analytics Rollout. Created Wave applications by generating various Data Sets, Data Flows and working with JSON files and using SAQL  • Implemented Wave Analytics, created datasets, dashboards and apps for Opportunity, Accounts and Cases.  • Implemented the requirements on Salesforce platform and Force.com IDE Plug-in using Eclipse.  • Integration between SFDC Deal Support Request and UVC Licensing server using Apex Callout to trigger an email to be sent out from the licensing server with the trial extension file.  • Integration between SFDC Deal Support Request for Clear sea trial requests and Mariel Server using Apex Callout  • I have strong Salesforce service cloud experience and feels comfortable designing transformational solutions and working directly with customers to meet their business needs. We have responsibility for creating/ sharing/collaborating on materials to support both sales and delivery.  • Involved in Salesforce Application Setup activities and customized the apps to match the functional needs of the organization.  • Worked on various Salesforce standard objects like Accounts, Contacts, Leads, Opportunities, Campaigns, Reports and Dashboards.  • Designed, Implemented and deployed the Custom objects, Page layouts, Custom tabs, Components.  • Created workflow rules and defined related tasks, time triggered tasks, email alerts, filed updates to implement business logic.  • Developed Apex Classes, Controller Classes and Apex Triggers for various functional needs in the application.  • Created Wave applications by generating various Data Sets, Data Flows and working with JSON files and using SAQL.  • Integrated Salesforce org with Legacy customer system to retrieve customers.  • Created Lead assignment rules for lead routing mechanism.    Environment: Force.com Platform, Sales force Unlimited Edition, Salesforce, Custom/Standard Objects, Custom Tabs, Page Layouts, SOQL/SOSL Queries, Workflow & Approvals, Apex, Visual force, Web Services, Reports, Force.com Eclipse Plug-in, Salesforce sandbox, data loader, Email Services, Security Controls, Chef, Jenkins, Docker. Sr. Salesforce Consultant Santa Monica, CA May 2014 to June 2016 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Discussions with Business Analyst and Project Managers to provide best solutions possible in Salesforce for the requirements collected.  • Created custom buttons and links on Account and Relationship Group object for generating auto Reports.  • Developed Visual Force pages which rendered based on Salesforce1 App or Web.  • Developed publisher actions for salesforce1 app.  • Efficiently worked with standard Salesforce.com objects like Accounts, Contacts, Leads, Cases and Opportunities.  • Implemented Wave Analytics, created datasets, dashboards and apps for Opportunity, Accounts and Cases.  • Worked on Wave analytics Dashboard on creating the Dashboard in Classic Designer, adding visualizations to the Wave Dashboard, adding Images to the Wave Dashboard, adding Key Performance Indicators to the Wave Dashboard.  • Used methods in the System JSON class to perform round-trip JSON serialization and deserialization of Apex objects.  • Worked closely with informatica and other middleware teams for fixing issues.  • Monitoring of informatica jobs to ensure smooth and error-free operations.  • Created Custom objects, Page layouts, Custom tabs and Components.  • Proactively created Apex Triggers and Apex classes and also developed and managed complex workflows, approvals, validation rules, assignment rules and system triggers.  • Defined the lookup relationship and master-detail relationship on the objects that helps in associating the records and defining a parent-child relationship in which the master object controls certain behaviors of the detail object respectively.  • Expertise in configuring, using and administrating GIT version control system.  • Interacted with various Business Analysts and Developers to design better test plan and strategies based on the requirements of the business.  • Experienced on working with API calls, REST and SOAP services for Integrating.  • Experienced with calls integration with the help of CTI.  • Involved in various user stories and worked with QA team to test in various sandbox environments and update fields in Production.  • Designed Salesforce Service Cloud console to boost productivity with the dashboard-like interface, reducing clicking & scrolling, making it easy to quickly find/update/create records.  • Implemented Salesforce Lightning Components for small set of users within the organization.  • Effectively created the Picklists, dependent Picklists and junction objects to establish the connectivity among objects.  • Stored calls, loggings and recordings with CTI to ensure quality services.  • Highly experienced with Zuora for Salesforce for commerce, billing and financial subscriptions.  • Responsible for writing SOQL & SOSL queries with consideration to Governor Limits for data manipulation needs of the application using platform database objects.  • Integrated AWS (Amazon Web Services) with Salesforce using Force.com, combining a framework for authentication and native access to AWS Simple Storage System (S3), and pre-built Amazon Machine Images (AMI).  • Experience with migration of CLM across environments including experience with the Apttus migration tool  • Business acumen as it relates to the CLM business process  • Using Salesforce Workbench timed SOQL queries to get the most optimized version of the query.  • Used Change Sets to deploy components into different environments.  • Set up Marketing Campaigns, Campaign Hierarchies, Lead Queries, Assignment rules, Web-to-Lead, Auto-Response rules.  • Experience in Dealing with Salesforce Support calls in case of any Salesforce Org issues.  • Worked effectively to ensure that the data is protected and is made available to the authorized users by customizing the user Roles, Role hierarchies, Profiles and Sharing settings.  • Used the sandbox for testing and migrated the code to the deployment instance after testing.  • Developed different Visual Force Pages to suit to the needs of the application using different Visual force components.  • Used Force.com Eclipse IDE plug-in to manage, author, debug and deploy Force.com applications in the Eclipse development environment.    Environment: Saleforce.com platform, Apex Language, Visual Force Pages, Zuora, Custom Component, Lightning Component, Service Cloud, Custom Controllers, Workflow & Approvals, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Page Layouts, Email Services, Security Controls, HTML, Web Services, Reports, Sandbox, Eclipse IDE Plug-in, Workbench. SalesForce Developer Prudential Financial - Newark, NJ April 2012 to May 2014 Responsibilities:  • Used Data Loader for insert, update and bulk import or export of data from Salesforce S-Objects Used it to read, extract, and load data from comma separated values (CSV) files  • Developed Custom Visual Force page to allocate Supporter Direct Debit Transaction amount to Supporter Gifts for the current month and to fulfill the Partial payments that were happened in previous months of a supporter.  • Developed a Scheduler to run at end of every month to calculate the next month payment based on the gifts frequency that are supported by a Supporter.  • Technology used Force.com, Apex Explorer, and Apex Data Loader etc.    • Worked on development of custom Visual Force pages and Apex Code to extend or in some cases overrides the configurable Salesforce solution.  • Deployed custom applications, Visual force pages, Apex classes and Triggers from Sandbox to Production  • Deployed using Change Sets and Eclipse tool from sandbox to production environments.  • Efficiently used tools like Apex Classes, Visual Force pages, triggers, workflows and approval processes to develop complex requirements of the customer.  • Designed, and developed Apex Classes, Controller Classes, extensions and Apex Triggers for various functional needs in the application.  • Maintained test coverage for all the classes and triggers and supporting deployment activities    • Designed, and deployed the Custom objects, Custom tabs, Entity-Relationship data model, validation rules, Workflow Rules, Auto-Response Rules, Page layouts, Components, Visual Force Pages to suit to the needs of the application  • Used SOQL & SOSL with consideration to Governor Limits for data manipulation needs of the application using platform database objects    Environment: Force (Pages, Component & Controllers), Pages, Data Loader, HTML, Java Script, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Email Services, Security Controls, Sandbox data loading, Eclipse IDE Plug-in Software Developer P.F Changs Bistro Inc - Scottsdale, AZ March 2010 to April 2012 Responsibilities:  • Interacted with client to get requirements and scope of the project.  • Created web pages using Joomla 2.5.3, Java Script, JQuery and MySQL Server.  • Worked on UI design using HTML and CSS for better appearance and weekly meetings with on-site team for approval.  • Deployed CMCT Components using MVC architecture and creating custom components, custom modules.  • Managed the controllers to navigation to appropriate pages and models.  • Deployed the gateway API's and configure them as Country based selections.  • Created Career pages and configures the mailing server to send scheduled mails to users.  • Cleaned up and rewrote front end HTML and CSS to meet validation requirements.  • Normalized database tables and performed extensive query optimization.  • Fixing bugs using unit testing and integrating code with teammates.  • Providing test plans to testing team and verifying bugs list on bugzilla tool periodically and fixing bugs as per the severity.  • Finally deploy the code to Web Domain.    Environment: Joomla, Java Script, JQuery, My SQL. Education Bachelor's Additional Information Operating Systems: Windows 9X, XP, 2000, Vista.