Senior Developer Senior <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Developer Work Experience Senior Developer S&KA CONSULTING - Los Angeles, CA December 2013 to July 2019 As part of a small consulting team, managed several clients in various industries, and is responsible for assessing  client needs, architecting, development of critical web/desktop business applications    Key Contributions:  ? Serving as project lead for a small team, consisting of 3 developers.  ? Defining solution architecture for new initiatives (which often involves researching newer technologies, and creating architectural diagrams)  ? Managing .NET projects using JIRA (Kanban boards)  ? Lead the design and development of a complex customer billing system, appointment booking system, and forum, among other projects.  ? Working as a front, middle, and back-end developer for clients who rely solely on the .NET stack.  ? Participating in front-end development on Wordpress websites (Powered by MySQL, PHP, Javascript)  ? Orchestration of client data migration from simple to more complex databases. Senior Developer MARKET SCAN INFORMATION SYSTEMS - Camarillo, CA October 2018 to February 2019 At this company, I maintained the company's core API service, built web scrapers, and helped create several  robust SPA apps using Vue. Engaged in 90% new development that included creation of a highly anticipated single  page application used to calculate lease payments for auto dealerships and car salesmen. The company worked with several big clients in the auto industry and won first place for best large booth at the 2019 National  Automobile Dealers Association convention.    Key Contributions:  ? Maintained internal internal company tools and applied patches as needed  ? Created SPA applications powered by Vue, Node.js, OWin, MS SQL, and Azure  ? Mentored colleagues about web scraping techniques. Introduced company to headless browsers and tools to aid their data collection efforts. (used .NET WebBrowse control, Phantomjs, and the HTML Agility  Pack, among others) Senior Software Developer RMIS - Westlake Village, CA June 2017 to July 2018 Responsible for creating and maintaining internal company tools, built using WPF and Angular. Attended daily  scrum meetings, ran SQL reports for various clients in the auto industry, and met regularly with management.    Key Contributions:  ? Functioned as a senior developer in a small in-house development team  ? Designed and built out internal company tools for data entry powered by WPF/WebAPI  ? Built new optimized Web API back end to replace the company's 20 year old software  ? Created company sever fallback tool with Amazon S3/API Gateway/Lambda/DynamoDB and a variety of other technologies.  ? Helped mentor junior developers and assisted them with troubleshooting/debugging issues  ? Regularly met with company management to assess company needs and determine projects  requirements Senior Software Engineer PROSEARCH STRATEGIES INC - Los Angeles, CA December 2013 to March 2016 Responsible for architecting, developing, and managing of internal MVC, WPF, and WCF projects. Architected  various client-related solutions    Key Contributions:  ? Defining solution architecture for new initiatives (which often involves researching newer technologies), creating architectural diagrams to be presented to the technology leadership, and meeting with the CTO  and CEO on a semi-regular basis to determine adequate solutions for company-wide problems as they  arise.  ? Developed internal WPF tools (MVVM) that deal with large SQL Server datasets, using libraries created by Infragistics, and Xceed (think: Customizable, optimized, dynamic hierarchical grids that allow for the  manipulation of "big data")  ? Lead the design and development of responsive SPA apps, optimized to interact with large datasets, for the purpose of filtering, editing, and updating entries. These were internal tools that company employees  began using as part of their job.  ? Architected, and built the front, middle, and back ends of a highly scalable and responsive in-house  "script management" system that behaves much like the Apple app store.  ? Designed a distinctive application tier, to work with various application infrastructures like SQL Server and Web Services.  ? Played a crucial role in the integration of the latest MVC technology into the company's legal software  stack. ( Software: Relativity) Programmer FOLIOSWEEP - Los Angeles, CA June 2013 to September 2013 Responsible for architecting, development, and management of internal MVC/WPF applications. Built a Web  application infrastructure on .NET Framework 3.5 to empower development of reusable web controls that  consolidate business functionality.    ? Created HipChat bot using Python. The bot's main purpose was to simplify administration tasks. (IE: Git  pushing and pulling, shell command execution, site statistics gathering, and grabbing error logs.)  ? Installed TeamSpeak server.  ? Worked on Django views with graphic designer.    (Languages used: Python/Django, Javascript) Programmer PHONEPOWER - Winnetka, CA May 2012 to March 2013 Responsible for architecting, development, and management of internal MVC/WPF applications. Built a Web  application infrastructure on .NET Framework 3.5 to empower development of reusable web controls that  consolidate business functionality.    ? Made changes to VoIP Service and Customer Management WCF services.  ? Developed and designed HTML5/jQuery interfaces across several portals.  ? Documented "hardware provisioning scripts" involved in provisioning of all customer VoIP adapter  devices.  ? Fixed bugs involved in hardware provisioning using PHP and reverse engineering techniques.  ? Added feature to override configuration files for hardware provisioning for Linksys and Innomedia  devices.  ? Made changes to various internal customer-service/billing related applications. (Customer manager, service manager, admin manager)  ? Responded to tickets and fixed problems based on what was in the ticket, notified management if  necessary, appended the new changes, committed changes to SVN server, tested on development server  (Internet Explorer 7/8, Mozilla Firefox, Chrome)  ? Provided solutions to prevent fraud and DDoS attacks. Found and patched various security holes using  PHP and C#.  ? Helped design MVC2 portal. Created responsive/animated jQuery/Javascript workflows. (Customer  contacts, invoices list, all form validation, auto attendant, and billing pages.) Skills .net, Api, C#, C++, Design/development, Git, .net core, Wcf, Winforms, Svn, Systems integration, Mvc, Mvvm, Wpf, Ado, Ado.net, Microsoft sql server, Sql server, Mysql, Sql Additional Information Core Competencies    ? Technical Leadership and Mentoring ? Project Management  ? SDLC using Agile/Scrum ? Technology/Solution Architecture  ? Enterprise Systems Integration ? API Development (RESTful, SOAP)  ? Responsive Web Design/Development ? Cloud technologies (Azure)  ? SQL ? Test Driven Development (TDD)    Notable Technical Skills    ? C/C#/C++ ? Quasar, Vue, Angular, knockout, backbone,  ? WPF, Winforms KendoUI, IgniteUI, jQuery  ? ASP.NET MVC, WebAPI, Web Forms ? HTML5, CSS3  ? .NET Framework 1.0 - 4.8 ? Entity Framework, Dapper, ADO.NET  ? .NET Core  ? Microsoft SQL Server, MySQL ? SVN, Git, TFS  ? REST/SOAP, Web Services, WCF ? Scrum tools - JIRA  ? MVVM