Software Engineer <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Software Engineer - 3M Health Information Systems Austin, TX Work Experience Software Engineer 3M Health Information Systems November 2016 to Present Design, develop and deploy applications to provide support to the world using 3M's NLP engine.  ? Created Maven modules in a Maven project structure; added various internal and external  dependencies for various functionalities (e.g. org.json for parsing and creating JSON  objects)  ? Communicate directly and thoroughly with stakeholders and business partners on requirements needed for features regarding the application  ? Developed and designed RESTful web services using Spring (GET, POST, PUT, DELETE) and endpoints for front end use; designed and developed JSON objects for  front-end team.  ? Integrated swagger API to all RESTFUL API endpoints for documentation and server  side access and testing.  ? Took the lead in designing and developing backend service to produce an XML file that  complies to the vendor format using a JSON format our main application uses.  ? Parsed JSON and XML data from various internal services and surfaced that data to clients in our AWS hosted application.  ? Refactored, documented, and optimized code in the application for readability, understanding and performance.  ? Created and developed new user interface features using the Angular platform for the use  of reprocessing data internal to 3M as a means to expose data to current beta customers  ? Collaborated with team members and occasionally members of other teams in the HIS  division to debug issues.  ? Involved in creating Amazon Web Services CI/CD pipeline integrated with CloudWatch, CodeCommit, and CodeDeploy.  ? Usage of Bitbucket source code repository for the management of the projects code;  pushed, pulled, merged.  ? Practiced Agile/Scrum methodologies in a one week sprint.  Environment: Java 1.8, J2EE, Swagger, Spring, Jersey JAX-RS, XML, JSON, MySQL Database, Git, Bitbucket, Tomcat 8.0, JUnit, Amazon Web Services (CodeCommit, CodePipeline, Cloudwatch, S3  Buckets, EC2, CloudFormation, Auto Scaling, Elastic Load Balancers), JIRA, Angular 6+, Typescript Integration Programming Analyst Doctors Hospital at Renaissance February 2015 to November 2016 Providing and extracting data hospital-wide for patient health with the use of CERNER proprietary  language (CCL). Provide support with scheduled reports and reports that are manually run by end-user  ? Certification in Cerner Fundamentals  ? Enhanced hospital productivity by creating data reports that benefit doctors on the floor, such as providing Respiratory Therapy with a list of high risk patients on albuterol daily.  ? Boosted revenue for the Pharmacy Department by providing financial data on medications used throughout the hospital based on cost and times administered.  Environment: Discern Visual Developer, Cerner Command Language, Explorer Menu, Cerner OpsJob, AngularJS Webmaster/Web Developer SIRS-E, Inc 2013 to 2015 Managed the development and construction of an abandoned ecommerce site for a professional business  in: LED lighting, DMX Control, and Pro Audio.  ? Added shopping functionality with an eCommerce site.  ? Designed the entire site to better suit the owner's intentions; Setup the server for optimized  webpage speeds, Managed Search Engine Optimization for page rank.  ? Created HTML webpages that included JavaScript functionality and the JQuery framework.  Environment: Wordpress, Javascript, HTML, PHP, WooCommerce plugin Intern - Software Developer Edinburg Consolidated Independent School District 2012 to 2013 Contributed in the process and development of Web based applications used by teachers and students for attendance-taking purposes in a Visual Basic .NET environment and LINQ.  ? Database design and management; Software architecture; Created markups in HTML.  ? Aided administrative staff with website support and gave solutions to web application difficulties.  ? Consulted district-wide clients on many projects such as: a ticketing system for a mileage tracker.  ? Trained individuals on website management and key points of website manipulation; trained  colleagues on certain key points of ASP.NET, Javascript, and HTML.  Environment: Visual Basic, HTML, JavaScript, ASP.NET, Oracle DB, SQL Stored Procedures, Team  Foundation Server Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science I & II University of Texas - Pan American - Edinburg, TX December 2014 Skills Javascript, MYSQL