Salesforce Lightining Developer/Admin Salesforce Lightining <span class="hl">Developer</span>/Admin Salesforce Lightining Developer/Admin - PlymouthRock Assurance Boston, MA • Salesforce Consultant with 5 years' experience in Administration, Configuration, Customization, Implementation, Data Migration and Integration with External Systems.  • Extensively worked on various SFDC standard objects like Accounts, Contacts, Opportunities, Leads, Campaigns, Cases, Solutions, Reports and Dashboards.  • Excellent work experience in designing of custom objects and junction objects, custom fields, role-based page layouts, custom Tabs, custom reports, report folders, report extractions to various formats, design of Visualforce Pages, Dashboards, Apex Classes, Controllers & Triggers, and various other components as per the client and application requirements.  • Work with Organization & User Setup Created user Roles and Profiles, Security controls and sharing Settings, Page Layouts, Role Hierarchy Grant access, Permission sets, OWD Settings For Schema Level Security.  • Implemented security and sharing rules at object level, field level and record level, and system audit trail setup for different users based on Organizational hierarchy.  • Experience in developing Validation Rules, Workflows and Approval Processes, process builder, Flows for Automated alerts, new Tasks, field updates, and Email generation according to application requirements.  • Developed Lightning components using Aura Framework which also included client-side AngularJS.  • Enabled Aura Framework, by adding Aura Attributes and Aura Handlers for Events to focus on logic Developed Lightning Apps using Lightning Design System for Salesforce1.  • Technical Knowledge about Salesforce lightning schema builder, process builder, lightning app builder, Components and Lightning connect.  • Working with Lightning bundle Component, Controller, Helper, Renderer, Style, SVG, Documentation, Design.  • Working on Global actions, Quick actions, Lightning Tabs, Chatter approvals and post templates.  • Chatter.com standard actions Post, File, Link, Poll, and Question Customize Chatter Actions, Mobile smart actions As per Business Needs.  • Experience in web technologies including HTML, XML, CSS, Java Script, and jQuery.  • Setting up external data integration with Salesforce Connect involves on Creation external data source, external objects and their fields, Indirect Lookups.  • Experience in handling events like Component event, System events, and Application events.  • Developed single page Applications using Lightning Homepage, Lightning record page, lightning Application page with lightning app builder.  • Experience working across various SFDC implementations covering Sales Cloud, Service Cloud, Call center.  • Experience with Design of Service Cloud, Sales Cloud with web-to-lead, Web-to case, Email-to-case.  • Live Agent Configuration Created and Assign Live Agent Skills, Chat Buttons for live Agent.  For Service Console customization.  • Salesforce integrates with several different marketing automation solutions like Paradot, Marketo for marketing cloud implementation.  • Maintain our growing Einstein Analytics Apps, Dashboards, Lenses, and Datasets.  • Used SOQL & SOSL with consideration to Governor Limits for data manipulation needs of the application using platform database objects and different related object.  • Experience in SFDC Development implementing the APEX classes, Triggers, S-Controls, Components, Reports, Visual Force, Force.com IDE, Eclipse with SOQL, SOSL and Force.com plug-ins.  • Professional experience in Data Extraction, Transformation, Loading ETL, Dimensional data modeling, Star schema modeling, Snow-Flake modeling, identification of fact and dimension tables, Normalization and Physical and Logical data modeling.  • Used the sandbox for testing and migrated the code to the deployment instance after testing.  • Integrated salesforce data with external systems by writing salesforce REST Web Services for Inbound  • Classes and used Http Request methods to call external applications SOAP API, REST API endpoint and Apex Callouts and call in services.  • Experience with the integrating SFDC and AppExchange partners such as CPQ/Apptus, Steel Brick (config, price & quote).  • Salesforce CPQ working on Quotes, Select Products, Calculate Prices, Generation of PDF Quotes, Manage Contracts and Renewals.  • Proficient in working with JIRA and confluence.  • Working configuration conga composer & DocuSign 3rd party products for document generation document automation: merge data into templates for pixel-perfect proposals, quotes and more in Word, PowerPoint, Excel, HTML email & PDFs. Work Experience Salesforce Lightining Developer/Admin PlymouthRock Assurance - Boston, MA June 2019 to Present Responsibilities:  • Provided development, implementation, and updating focusing on Sales cloud and Service cloud.  • Worked on Salesforce.com Standard Objects such as Accounts, Contacts, Opportunities, Campaigns, Cases, and Solutions asper Client Requirements.  • AS a lead working with business analysts, developers and stakeholders to implement, integrate and maintain the Salesforce.com  • Worked on Classic to lightning Migration.  • Extensively worked on VF pages to Lightning Components, url buttons to quick actions, lightning Record, Home, App pages, lightning Tabs.  • Worked with Lightning Design System, Lightning App Builder, Lightning Component Framework, Lightning customizations, Lightning CSS Framework.  • Experience in Salesforce Lightning Inspector Chrome Extension and chrome dev tools.  • Working on team building and project management skills.  • As an Administrator, implemented various advanced fields like Picklist Fields, Master-Detail Fields, Custom Formula Fields, and defined Field Dependencies for custom picklist fields.  • Experience in Powerful command-line interface (CLI) removes the complexity of working with your Salesforce org for development, continuous integration, and delivery using Salesforce DX  • Managed ongoing support requests and administrative needs of users.  • Administered, configured, maintained Salesforce.com application user profiles, roles, assigning Permissions, generating security tokens, validation Rule, upgrade installation.  • Defined objects and Field Level Security for different profiles.  • Worked on Apex Triggers for Automated actions.  • Distributed version control system that makes it easy for you to collaborate with your team using Git Hub, Worked with Trello Ticket handling system.  • Worked on creating Validation Rules, Workflow Rules and Approval Process.  • Enhanced Apex Class and Visual Force Page to create a custom Related List, showing activities for selected contacts or clients.  • Worked in different sandboxes for development and testing and involved in migrating the code to production instance by using Change Set.  • Responsible for weekly and monthly data export, updates, and backup for the organization.  • Used Apex Data Loader to Inset, Update, and Import data from Microsoft Excel into Salesforce.com.  • Experienced in web technologies like HTML, XML, CSS, JSP, jQuery, JavaScript, WSDL, and SOAP.  • Used Services cloud to manage Cases and Entitlements.  • Developed Apex Classes, Controller Classes and Apex Triggers for various functional needs in the application. Implemented CPQ System to improve user experience in the Quoting process using Salesforce.  • Made enhancements to Apttus CPQ (Configure Price Quote) tool, shopping cart by adding new fields. Run batches in order provided to project changes by following the instructions provided by Apttus.  • Proficient in Data Migration from Traditional Applications to Sales force Using Data Loader.  • Executed various levels of Unit, Integration, Regression and User Acceptance (UAT) using test cases to prove that system conform to specifications of business and quality requirements.  Environment: Salesforce.com, Git Hub, Workflow Rules, Approval Process, Apex Data Loader, Force.com, Import Wizard, visual studio, Trello ticketing , salesforce DX , Controllers, Visual Force Pages, XML, Triggers. Salesforce Developer Acquia - Boston, MA September 2018 to May 2019 Responsibilities:  • Performed detailed analysis of business and technical requirements and designed the solution by customizing various standard objects of Salesforce.com.  • Designed, implemented and deployed the Custom objects, Page layouts, Custom tabs, Controller Classes, Extensions, Components to suit the needs of the application using Eclipse.  • Designed, Developed and Deployed Apex Classes, Controller Classes and Apex Triggers for various functional needs of the application.  • Gained basic knowledge on Lightning App Builder to develop apps visually, without code using Custom-Built Lightning Components.  • Developed business logic as per business requirements using force.com IDE, Apex Classes, Triggers, Test methods and writing SOQL and SOSL queries.  • Worked extensively on Visualforce pages, Visualforce Custom Controllers components for creating various user interfaces for different Users and Customers.  • Developed and configured various Custom Report and Report Folders for different user profiles based on the need in the organization.  • Created Visualforce, workflow rules, Validation rules, configuration and defined related tasks, time-triggered tasks, email alerts and field updates to implement business logic.  • Integration using Web Sphere Cast Iron and Informatica cloud for data migration into the cloud.  • Worked on different Integration Issues and worked on developing Visualforce pages and Apex controller classes.  • Created Custom Reports to track the Cases, assets to be available to different levels in the organization based on their Profiles.  • Created mash up between Salesforce CRM and Gmail through Force.com, AppExchange's Email integration engine.  • Developed Lightning App Builder can help you build responsive apps that display on any device, as well as custom pages for Lightning Experience.  • Implementation of a custom partner community using visual force and lighting components projects.  • Created Workbench web-based suite of tools designed for administrators and developers to interact with Salesforce.com organizations via the Force.com APIs.  • Integrated salesforce.com with External .Net Applications to capture Custom Objects and using REST API by configuring Connected App.  • Customized Marketing Cloud Objects and Scheduled and managed marketing email sends with Salesforce Marketing Cloud.  • Executed workbench and data loader to verify Product/Pricing staging data in SFDC/CPQ.  • Implemented Web service using visualforce framework to promote the quotes from external systems to CPQ.  • Design solutions using the CPQ Cloud's standard APIs to integrate with CRM, ERP, or any backend system.  • Experienced Data loader user with knowledge on complex and large CSV files for faster data Integration into the Salesforce.  • Performed data migrations using Salesforce.com Data Loader.  • Worked on Sales and Service Cloud communities sharing business process extend them across offices and departments, and outward to customers and partners.  • Used the Sandbox for testing and migrated the code to the deployment instances after testing using change sets.  • Worked on Agile/Scrum Methodology using Version One and SDLC.  Environment: Salesforce.com Platform, Apex Language, Visualforce (Pages, Components and Controllers), Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Flows, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Email Services, and Java Script, Web Services. Salesforce Developer Nisource March 2017 to August 2018 Coloumbus, OH  Responsibilities:  • Created Lightning Components, added CSS and Design Parameters which improves performance  • Developed Lightning apps using Lightning Components and made them compatible with salesforce1 mobile app  • Enabled Aura Framework, by adding Aura Attributes and Aura Handlers for Events to focus on Logic and Interactions in Lightning Applications  • Experienced in setting up Environment by enabling My Domain, Decompose the App in Components and build the Lightning App.  • Formatting and migrating user data into LE, Implemented Salesforce Lightning Components for small set of users within the organization.  • Built customized Lightning components replacing the existing ones; using JavaScript on the client side and Apex on the server side.  • Experience in building new Applications with the Lightning App Builder and Lightning components  • Used Salesforce Lightning Inspector to debug the lightning components during the development process.  • Created Apex methods for the lightning controller and helper methods to perform DML operations on the case records.  • Worked on JIRA tool and Kanban Board.  • Used Salesforce.com platform, Force.com IDE for development for Visualforce Pages, Apex classes, Triggers and creating Objects.  • Written Apex Classes, Controller, Extension Controllers and Apex Triggers in the application for various Business/functional requirements.  • Worked on customization like creating objects, fields, Page Layouts, Record Types, Workflow rules, Validation Rules, Approval Process by enhancing the Salesforce applications.  • Worked on designing Reports and Dashboards.  • Integrated with external system using Web Services callouts for cleansing the Address and save the data in the pages of Salesforce.com and SOAP and REST based Web Services for extracting the data from external systems to display in the pages of Salesforce.com.  • Integration experience using both Web based technologies (SOAP, REST) and Integration/Middleware tools such as Informatica, Jitterbit.  • Involved in Deployment by using Change Sets and Force.com IDE tool  • Worked on creating Apex Triggers, Apex Classes, and Visualforce Pages to get custom logic.  • Installing Applications by using AppExchange.  • Worked on writing Test Classes for Apex Triggers, Apex classes and Controllers.  • Worked on Schedule Apex Class and Batch Apex Class.    Environment: SFDC, Apex Data Loader, Force.com, Import Wizard, Eclipse IDE, Controllers, Visual Force Pages, Triggers, XML, JIRA tool, Kanban. Salesforce Developer Paypal - Lincoln, NE March 2016 to February 2017 Responsibilities:  • Involved in various activities of the project, like information gathering, analyzing the information, documenting the functional and nonfunctional requirements.  • Worked on Eclipse, Developer Console and Anonymous blocks development tools for developing, debugging and testing of Apex classes, Visualforce pages, triggers and test classes.  • Implemented Apex Scheduler and Triggers to invoke Apex classes at regular intervals.  • Dynamically replicating an existing website.  • Used JIRA tool for project issue and bug tracking.  • Developed several Triggers, Apex classes and Visual force pages as part of the application development.  • Worked on various salesforce.com standard objects like Accounts, Contacts, Leads, Campaigns, Reports and Opportunities.  • Customized the Dashboards to track usage for productivity and performance of business centers and their sales teams.  • Created Apex REST web service methods to inbound calls to Salesforce and supported response in JSON and XML format.  • Worked on Salesforce Community (Customer Community).  • Designed, Implemented and deployed the Custom objects, Page layouts, Custom tabs, Components to suit to the needs of the application.  • Used Force.com CLI (Command Line Interface) tool for data backup.  • Used GIT BASH to run GIT from the command line, using which merged all the components to other environments (IntDev, QA, Stage and Prod).  • Handled the deployments process using GIT HUB.  • Worked on Email-Templates associated to multiple profiles.  • Created various profiles and permission sets according to the business needs.  • Data migration from external systems to sales force using Data Loader, Import wizard.  • Worked on Inbound and Outbound changesets for deployment.  • Created various profiles and configured the permissions based on the organizational hierarchy requirements.    Environment: Saleforce.com platform, Service Cloud, Customer Community, Force.com CLI, JIRA, GIT BASH, Role Hierarchies, Sharing Rules, Email Templates, Reports, Dashboards, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Email Services, Security Controls, Approval process. Software Engineer AP Pro Systems - Hyderabad, Telangana March 2014 to November 2015 Hyderabad, India    Responsibilities:  • Written low-level design for features document creation, container creation and document relocation.  • Handled assignments in developing UI pages using JSP, HTML, DHTML, CSS and Java Script technologies.  • Application developed in MVC architecture using Struts, JSP, Ajax, HTML, Java Script, CSS, JMS and Hibernate.  • Updated the required data in the DB2 database to save and update the database using hibernate, corresponding to actions performed in the struts class.  • Involved in understanding business requirements and functionality of Cost Management Reporting.  • Involved in drawing the UML diagrams such as Use Case Diagrams, Class Diagrams and Sequence Diagrams using Rational Rose.  • Developed java classes for posting and processing mails using EJB and Java Mail API.  • Deployment of the application in the Web Logic Application server.  • Involved in implementing Value Object Pattern, MVC and Singleton Pattern.    Environment: Java, JSF, Java Script, spring, Hibernate, Web logic 8.1, Oracle 9i, Toad, Eclipse Education Master's in Computer Science in Computer Science Rivier University Bachelor of Engineering in Mechanical in Mechanical JNTU Skills Eclipse, Java, C#, C++, Html, Javascript, Xml, Force.com, Ajax, Dhtml, Web services, Apex, Ms access, Ms sql server, Ms sql server 2005, Sql server, Sql server 2005, Mysql, Oracle, Pl/sql Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/pavan-koppula-a615a4159 Additional Information Technical Skills:  Salesforce  Technologies    SFDC Certified Force.com Developer, Sales force CRM, Sales force SFA, Apex Language, Apex Classes/Controllers, Apex Triggers, SOQL, SOSL, Visual Force Pages / Components, S Controls, Apex Web Services, AJAX, Workflow & Approvals, Dashboards, Analytic Snapshots, Case Management Automation, Custom Objects.    Salesforce Tools  Eclipse, Force.com Eclipse IDE Plug-in, Force.com Explorer, Apex Data Loader, Force.com, Workbench, Force.com Platform (Sandbox and Production), Marketo.    Other Programming Languages Java, JavaScript, HTML, XML, DHTML, C, C++ , C#,SQL  Databases MS SQL Server 2005/2008, PL/SQL, RDBMS, Oracle 8i/9i/10g, MS Access, and MySQL  Operating Systems Windows 2000/ XP Pro/ Vista, Windows Server 2000/ 2003/2008