Senior Software Engineer Senior <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Senior Software Engineer - KBM Group Rogers, AR Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Software Engineer KBM Group - Richardson, TX April 2017 to Present Business Intelligence leader, offering tools and services for managing customer tracking data.  Help build and maintain Zipline Data Management Platform, built on Laravel and AngularJS. Senior Software Engineer University of Colorado - Boulder, CO December 2016 to April 2017 College of Arts & Sciences IT department providing software development services to academic advisors, the budget office and to orientation administrators.  Developed new features for online orientation system and academic advising system.    • Lead development of the Arts & Sciences online orientation system.  • Developed reporting tools, calendaring system, and data management system for orientation administrators.  • Developed UI, assessment system and online checklist for students to use in preparation for orientation sessions.  • Optimized queries in online advising and calendaring system which greatly improved performance.  • Refactored thousands of lines of legacy PHP code into Kohana 3, a powerful framework and object-relational mapping tool. Senior Software Engineer MediaBreakaway, LLC - Westminster, CO October 2015 to November 2016 Internet/affiliate marketing firm providing text services, ringtones, web hosting, domain sales, and games.  Designed and maintain subscription-based web application delivering mobile ringtones, wallpapers, video, screensavers, and games. Serve as resident expert on internal systems and mobile ringtone stores. Assist other departments in improving existing tools. Work on multiple projects and respond to numerous requests daily.    • Maintain system that monitors performance of 75,000+ parked domains and service that runs weekly and monthly database queries on domain revenue and click-through rates.  • Acquired additional responsibility after major department layoffs and serve as sole PHP programmer, web developer, and QlikView developer.  • Built Smart Affiliate Monitor system to monitor and track affiliates who operate non-compliant offers.  • Reduced administrative costs significantly by building site that uses SalesForce.com API to import custom data (campaigns, leads, revenue) through CSV files into SalesForce.com.  • Developed report import tools that use API to retrieve reports and wrote Perl Mechanize scripts to automate web-based logins, fill out search forms, and download results.  • Built robust backend for billing users through premium SMS messaging and delivering mobile content.  • Created website that offers discounted movie tickets as monthly subscription.  • Gained comprehensive experience with PHP, Linux Server administration, shell scripting, MySQL management, and database design. ActionScript Developer Consultant CropMom Corporation - Poway, CA July 2014 to September 2015 Online scrapbooking service providing digital scrapbook pages, photo greeting cards, and digital art.  Managed and developed Flash/ActionScript component of major .NET application, which offers digital scrapbooking to customers. Worked as contractor and collaborated with team of .NET developers.    • Designed XML specification to export complex layouts with text, images, and vector graphics to .NET backend and allow downloading of high-resolution versions.  • Took over project from developer who used ActionScript 2.0. Re-developed user interface with ActionScript 3.0 and Flash to meet Base64 image encoding requirements and increase load time.  • Recognized by owner for excellent work and performance of user interface. Software Engineer FX One Seven Zero - Lafayette, CO March 2012 to June 2014 Multimedia production company providing websites, videos, presentations, and interactive tools to businesses.  Provided technical support, system administration, and programming with ActionScript, PHP, .NET, and C#. Collaborated with Flash designers to develop e-learning courseware, tradeshow multimedia presentations, and prototype and proof-of-concept applications. Implemented custom web applications for clients using open-source tools including Moodle, Drupal, Wordpress, and in-house solutions.    • Learned ActionScript and improved predecessor's code in one week. Built Flash CMS tool, rapid prototypes, and proof-of-concept applications and assisted in redesign of CinemaLatino.com.  • Resolved out-of-sync Flash animation with background video by testing actual frames per second (fps) of Flash file and setting animation position at regular intervals to align properly with video's fps.  • Developed stationery store for IHS Energy that allowed users to enter information, create proofs, and send orders directly to printing service. Used PHP ImageMagick extension to create proofs.  • Built unique analytics system (Flashback) for Flash tradeshow presentations, which used timer to send data (viewing time, browser statistics, unique visits, etc.) to database for customer reports/graphs.  • Created virtual cloud chamber in Flash for SpaceClass.org to allow students to fire alpha, beta, and gamma particles into various materials, monitor reaction to magnets, and learn about isotopes.  • Collaborated with a variety of clients including KPAOnline.com, Lockheed Martin, Sonora Entertainment, GE Instruments, Red Rocks Community College, and Maxtor. Web Developer University of Colorado - Boulder, CO January 2010 to February 2012 Comprehensive career center providing career counseling, career fairs, and on-campus recruiting.  Created e-commerce applications using JSP, Java, MySQL, and Struts Framework. Wrote Perl scripts for online polls and other information mining applications. Maintained website, fixed computers, performed upgrades, and provided technical support.    • Built card-reading script in Python to read student IDs and print student majors on nametags.  • Developed Java Servlet application for website that collected information from teachers. Gained comprehensive knowledge of Java, JSP, Tomcat, and Servlets.  • Created PHP website to gather dissertation information for director of career services.  • Acquired strong foundation in object-oriented programming. Education Master of Science in Computer Science University of Colorado - Boulder, CO Bachelor of Arts in Classics Colgate University - Hamilton, NY Skills ActionScript (3 years), Java (2 years), MySQL (3 years), Perl (3 years), PHP (6 years) Additional Information Technical Knowledge    Programming Languages: PHP, Java, JSP, JavaScript, ActionScript 3.0, Perl    Client-side: HTML, CSS, jQuery, AngularJS, AJAX, XML, JSON    Applications: Apache, MySQL, Eclipse, Vagrant, Tomcat, Subversion, SOLR    Frameworks/Tools: Laravel, AngularJS, Zend, CodeIgniter, Kohana 3, Moodle, Wordpress, Drupal