Senior Manager Senior Manager Senior Manager - Genpact India pvt ltd ? Worked as a developer on Core Java, Web services, AWS Cloud, Docker, JDBC, Spring, Servlets and JSP;  ? Proficient in developing web Applications using Struts Framework;  ? Worked on Integrated Development Environment like Eclipse, My Eclipse, Code Blocks, Visual Studio;  ? Good implementation knowledge on Data structures and algorithms  ? Worked on Hibernate;  ? Worked on MVC Architecture and Tomcat Web Server & Web logic Server;  ? Worked on different Design Patterns; Work Experience Senior Manager Genpact India pvt ltd May 2019 to Present 2 Developer Nagravision india pvt ltd July 2015 to Present Duration july 2015 - Till Date  Role Developer  Team Size 7  Technology used in the Project Java Java 1.8, webservices(jersey , reast easy) , Cassandra, Elastic search , ELK stack, AngularJS  OS UNIX, windows 10  Database Oracle 10G  Project Abstract  Conditional access (CA) is a technology used to control access to digital television (DTV) services to authorized users by encrypting the transmitted programming. CA has been used for years for pay-TV services. There are numerous ATSC and DVB-compliant CA systems available for a broadcaster to choose from. The CA system provider provides the equipment and software to the broadcaster who then integrates the CA system into his equipment. CA is not designed solely for DTV. It can be used for digital radio broadcasts, digital data broadcasts, and non-broadcast information and interactive services.  The different ECMs and EMMs required by each CA system are transmitted simultaneously. Each set-top box recognizes and uses the appropriate ECM and EMM needed for authorization. The ATSC standard uses SimulCrypt. MultiCrypt allows multiple CA systems to be used with one set-top box by using a PC card with an embedded smart card for each CA system used. Each card is then plugged into a slot in the set-top box. Each card recognizes the ECM and EMM needed for authorization.    Responsibilities  ? Design and Coding in different module  ? Development using Agile Methodology  ? Writing junit and API Automation Test case using ready api  ? Performance Testing.    4.0 Project CISCO Prime Infrastructure Senior Manager Genpact India pvt ltd Present Employment History  Name of the Company Designation From To Period (Months) Senior Software Engineer Nagravision india pvt ltd June 2015 to May 2019 48 Developer CISCO INC September 2013 to June 2015 Duration Sept 2013 - June 2015  Role Developer  Team Size 5  Technology used in the Project Java Java 1.6, JDBC 3.0, Spring(IOC), Hibernate, CSS  OS UNIX, XP  Database Oracle 10G  Project Abstract  Cisco Prime Infrastructure provides a single integrated solution for comprehensive lifecycle management of the wired/wireless access, campus, and branch networks, and rich visibility into end-user connectivity and application performance assurance issues. Cisco Prime Infrastructure accelerates the rollout of new services, secure access and management of mobile devices, making "Bring Your Own Device" (BYOD) a reality for corporate IT. Tightly coupling client awareness with application performance visibility and network control, Cisco Prime Infrastructure helps ensure uncompromised end-user quality of experience. Deep integration with the Cisco Identity Services Engine (ISE) further extends this visibility across security and policy-related problems, presenting a complete view of client access issues with a clear path to solving them.    Responsibilities  ? Coding in different module  ? Development using Agile Methodology  ? Writing API Automation Test case  ? Bug Fixing in UAT And (CDETS)    3.0 Project IP Network Element and EMS Approach / Design Member in Technical Staff HCL TECHNOLOGIES LTD August 2013 to May 2015 21 Software Developer IN- HOUSE PROJECT June 2012 to August 2013 Duration Jun 2012 - 26 Aug 2013  Role Software Developer  Team Size 8  Technology used in the Project Java Java 1.6, JDBC 3.0, Servlet 2.5, Spring(IOC) JSP 2.5, Struts 1.3.8, My Eclipse 6.5  OS Windows XP  Database ORACLE 10G  Project Abstract  This is a simple implementation for Network Elements and the required Management System. The element and Element management system is designed in a way that is flexible for adopting different kinds of network elements like routers, bridges, optical TDM based network elements .The main purpose of the document is to address the design of network elements supporting Graphical user interface, user defined http based communication for managing elements .This application consists of three modules.  • Element Agent  • Element Manager  • Element Manger Service  Using this module, EMS and NE can be invoked. Manager can perform the operations on NE with the available commands from the EMS and NE.    Responsibilities  ? Understanding the business requirement and implementing MVC architecture;  ? Coding in different module;  ? Implementing different design patterns like Business Delegate, Service-Locator, VO class, DAO class, Singleton and view helper;  ? Performing unit testing and bug fixing;  ? Involved in STRUTS    2.0 Project SIP Soft phone Development and Testing (Jet calls) Software Engineer NET CLOUD SYSTEMS (P) LTD January 2011 to August 2013 32  Technical Skills  Skills Experience Awareness  Programming Language Java, groovy, wxWidgets C , C++, C#, MFC, CLR  Operating Systems Windows , Unix Linux  Web Technologies HTML, JavaScript, XML, CSS  Database Software Oracle 10g, Cassandra, Elastic search MySQL  jse Technologies JDBC AWT, SWING  jee Technologies Servlets, JSP  Servers Tomcat (WebServer) WebLogic(Application Server) Nginx(Webserver) Htppd(Webserver) JBoss  Framework Software Struts , Spring  ORM Tool Hibernate  IDE Software Eclipse, Code Blocks, Visual Studio, MyEclipse Net Beans  Logging Tool Log4j, Slfr4j, Jul, Jcl  Build Tool MAVEN, ANT  CVS Tool SVN, GIT, PERFORCE CVSNT  Unit Testing Junit, TestNG, Mockito  Functional Testing Ready API, SOAP UI  Experience Profile  5.0 Project IPTV Software Developer IN- HOUSE PROJECT September 2011 to June 2012 Duration 9 Months  Role Software Developer  Team Size 4  Technology used in the Project Java, C & C++ wxWidgets  OS Windows XP , Linux (Ubuntu 10.04LTS)  Database ORACLE 9i  Project Abstract  This is a sip based soft phone used on wxWidgets toolkit for creating GUI.ItisaC++ for cross-platform applications. The SIP protocol is an Application Layer protocol designed to be independent of the underlying Transport Layer; it can run on Transmission Control Protocol (TCP), User Datagram Protocol (UDP), or Stream Control Transmission Protocol. It is a text-based protocol,. The protocol can be used for creating, modifying and terminating two-party (unicast) or multiparty (multicast) sessions consisting of one or several media streams. The modification can involve changing addresses or ports, inviting more participants, and adding or deleting media streams .OpenSER is a Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) proxy server, call router, and user agent registration server used in Voice over Internet Protocol and instant messaging applications.    Responsibilities  ? Designed & coordinating Architecture for Soft phone  ? Development, Using Agile methodology, Integration & Testing Soft phone  ? Testing SIP Server and RTP proxy using wire Shark  ? Bug fixing in UAT    1.0 Project SIP (VoIP) message control Software Developer IN- HOUSE January 2011 to July 2011 PROJECT  Duration Jan 2011- July 2011  Role Software Developer  Team Size 8  Technology used in the Project Java, C, C++ wxWidegts  OS Windows, Linux (Ubuntu 10.04LTS)  Project Abstract  The main objective of this proposed system is to Control all the activities of the SIP messages. The system mainly consists of headers like register, Invite, 100(trying), 180(Ringing), 200(ok), ACK and BYE .The tool is like to enable the customers to view sip messages for their customization with ease and to add the details.    Responsibilities  ? Designed Standard template  ? Participate during Integration in Soft phone.  ? Bug fixing in UAT