Software Developer II <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> II Software Developer II - Infinite Energy Gainesville, FL Presently working as Software Developer II at Infinite Energy (Gainesville, FL) Work Experience Software Developer II Infinite Energy February 2016 to Present Project: Invoice Redesign  Description: Provide better customer experience with brand new invoice template  Technology: C#, SQL    Project: Task Management Tool  Description: SharePoint workflow task creation frontend with JIRA integration  Technology: C#, React, JIRA    Project: Enrollment Website (Website)  Description: Developed website for new customers to enroll and get service  Technology: C#, React, Kubernetes, SQL    Project: Customer Website (Website)  Description: Developed website for customer which allow them to view their bill, make payment etc. Developed website was responsive to different devices.  Technology: Angular2, HTML5, CSS, Jasmine, yarn, C#, Docker, GitLab, Dynatrace    Project: Automate Correspondence  Description: Developed the automated process to generate various letters (Welcome, Renewal, Delinquency etc.) and send them for printing to third party vendor.  Technology: C#, RabbitMQ, SQL, Adobe Lifecycle. ELK Stack, Jenkins, Gerrit    Responsibilities:  • Involved in various levels of the development life cycle - gathering requirements, analyzing, design and development.  • Developed application - frontend (React, Angular2) and backend (C#, SQL).  • Responsible for writing multiple test cases using testing framework and maintain code coverage using ReSharper.  • Followed and implemented AGILE Methodologies.  • Created documentation and design in confluence.  • Used Jira as one of the project tracking system.  • Responsible to gather and implement metrics for team performance.  • Worked as one of the primary team members in production support team to identifies possible production failure scenarios, creates incident tickets, enhancements and/or problem tickets in ticket tracking system, and communicates effectively with development and internal business operations teams.  • Responsible for managing escalations and perform trouble shooting, analysis, research and resolution using advanced query and programming skills. Student Assistant University of Florida Library - Gainesville, FL March 2015 to December 2015 Project: E Resource Tracker  Description: Collecting reports from vendors and developing an application for library employees to work on.  Roles and Responsibilities: Design and develop complete application.  Technology: SQL, VBScript, MS Access. Summer Intern Top Build Corp May 2015 to August 2015 Project: Quick Build Tool  Description: Application for sales representative to close the deal with customer regarding house insulations, repair etc. at customers site and handover the agreement to them.  Roles and Responsibilities: Design and develop the application  • Application need to work in offline and online mode.  • It has facility to take ESignature from customer at their house.  • It can be deployed on desktop, tablet and mobile.  Technology: JavaScript, Kony Studio and Visualizer, Kony Sync, Oracle, Java Software developer at JH Softech, India APCPDCL July 2012 to December 2013 Project: Collection Reports for APCPDCL  Description: Collection Reports is a Web-Application for all the Eros and Section Officers of the AP Central Power Distribution Company Ltd., who are the end-users of this Project to view their daily collections (Electricity bills paid by the consumers) obtained from Eros, E-Seva Centers, AP Online Centers, Bill Junctions and Bill Desks.  Roles and Responsibilities:  • Coding Server pages using JSP.  • Unit Testing  Technology: JSP, Servlets, JDBC, HTML, JavaScript, and Oracle Education MS in Computer Science in Computer Science University of Florida January 2014 to December 2015 Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/nehasingh24 Certifications/Licenses Microsoft Certification in C# Present