Software Engineer (IS Team) <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer (IS Team) Software Engineer (IS Team) - Maximus Inc • Over 6 years of IT experience in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) such as planning, analysis, design, implementation and maintenance, Agile Methodologies like Scrum also Test Driven Development and Behavior Driven Development.  • Implementing Web and Client/Server (Win forms/ Web forms) applications.  • Expertise in developing Web-based and Windows-based applications using C#, VB.NET, ASP.NET, AJAX, JavaScript, UML, VBScript, XML, CSS, IIS and Visual Studio 2012/2010/2008/2005, SharePoint 2007/2010.  • Experience in migrating the SharePoint sites from 2007 to 2010 and also customizing the pages using JavaScript and jQuery as per the requirement.  • Experience creating forms in the SharePoint site using InfoPath.  • Exclusively used ASP.NET Web Parts, Master Pages, User Controls, and Custom Controls to design the Rich User Interactive Webpages.  • Experience in Test Automation tools such as Selenium WebDriver, Selenium IDE, Quality Center and HP ALM for Test Management, JIRA for tracking, SOAP UI for web services testing, SQL tools to access and conduct backend testing, test data integrity, written Java code to create test cases using JUnit and TestNG frameworks for Test Automation.  • Experienced in Black Box testing, White Box testing, Smoke testing, Regression testing, Integration testing, End-to-End testing, User Acceptance Testing and planning release work items with Sanity checks.  • Developed Test Scripts to implement Test Cases, Test Scenarios, and features for TDD (Test Driven Development), BDD (Behavior Driven Development) using Cucumber.  • Hands on experience using Source Code Control Systems like MS Visual Source Safe, Subversion and TFS.  • Proficient in working with various web related technologies including ASP/ASP.NET, Ajax, JQuery, JavaScript, Skins, HTML/HTML5 and CSS.  • Hands on experience with WPF, XAML and Silverlight.  • Expertise in database design and programming using SQL Server 2005/2008, Oracle 9i, Microsoft Access, SQL (Stored Procedures and Triggers).  • Experience with building data warehouses using SSIS packages, also converting SSIS packages from Visual Studio 2008 to Visual Studio 2017.  • Experience coding with different browsers (IE, Firefox, and Chrome).  • Expertise in trouble-shooting and problem solving with proven ability to design and develop reliable data driven applications.  • Experience working in Amazon Web Services (AWS).  • Experience with DevOps and automation tools including Jenkins.  • Used JIRA for ticketing issues and also to deploy code through Jenkins by DevOps.  • Experience includes in Healthcare, Manufacturing domains  • Excellent oral and written communication skills.  • A skilled problem-solver and an efficient team player.  • Strong Analytical, Verbal and math background enjoy challenging environment with scope to prove self and contribute to the cause of the organization. Work Experience Software Engineer (IS Team) Maximus Inc - Rancho Cordova, CA January 2018 to Present Health Care Options (HCO) program is to provide the maximum support to the health department, by giving multiple options to all the beneficiaries to enroll in any type of medical services provided by Department of health care services.    Responsibilities:  • Working on SSIS packages to migrate from VS 2008 to VS 2017 (SSDT).  • Working in DevOps and automation tools like Jenkins.  • Experience in ticketing system using JIRA (logging work etc.)  • Experience using Confluence for Team communication with all the tasks data saved.  • Creating scripts to back up the databases to deploy through Devops.  • Moving current system to Amazon Web Services (AWS) includes databases and applications.  • Testing SSIS packages after converting from 2008 to 2017 visual studio.  • Unit testing, integration testing was part of the development cycle.  • Generated test scripts that provided extensive application coverage using Selenium.  • Used several types of verification points to check the functionality of the application using Selenium.  • Interacting with end client to resolve issues and or to get requirements was part of the job role.  • SVN Repository is used for versioning.  • Worked with DevOps to deploy the code using Jenkins  • SQL scripts and stored procedures were part of the implementation.  • Working on creating data (creating and running Stored Procedures), testing data and export them in GITHUB to KP.  • Worked on a project which can show the metrics of all the .net core applications in the company can be visualized in grafana by using Prometheus as datasource via docker containers/images.    Environment: SVN, Selenium, visual studio 2017(SSDT), SSMS 2017, Jenkins, Docker, Prometheus, Grafana .Net Developer (DASS Team) Maximus Inc - Rancho Cordova, CA June 2014 to July 2017 HCO program is to provide the maximum support to the health department, by giving multiple options to all the beneficiaries to enroll in any type of medical services provided by Department of health care services.    Responsibilities:  • Developing sites (front end (c#.Net) to back end (SQL Server) with client and server side validations) .The site contains daily activity check-ins of people working in fields and also another site for the HR team to maintain the track on headcount like hiring, terminating and transferring a staff member.  • Couple of other sites for choice forms, alternative formats and for Call center attendance tracking record, one among them is a desktop application.  • Gathering requirements from the client, documenting.  • Involved in testing of application by Unit Testing and End User Support for fixing the defects/issues.  • Test case documentation for alpha and beta testing.  • Team Foundation Server (TFS) was used for versioning.  • Involved in requirements analysis, design and development of various modules.  • Implemented core components in C# that handles business logic.  • SQL scripts and stored procedures were part of the implementation.  • Involved in styling front end using CSS.    Environment: c#.NET 3.5, CSS, HTML, JQuery, JavaScript, SQL 2008 R2, visual studio 2010, IIS Express, TFS. .Net Developer IBM - Sacramento, CA May 2013 to May 2014 CA-MMIS program is to pay for health care services to Medi-Cal eligible beneficiaries and other qualified low-income persons - primarily families with children and seniors or persons with disabilities. MC Web is a web application and has different components from where the beneficiaries get paid for their pharmacy claims with the new diagnosis codes.    Responsibilities:  • Developing a sub-site (front end (c#.Net) to back end (SQL Server) with client and server side validations) for the state of California in the department of health care services (DHCS). The site contains enrollments/submissions for patients applying for presumptive eligibility handled by the hospitals which will be submitted and retrieved whenever required.  • Involved in testing of application by Unit Testing, Integration Testing, User Acceptance Testing (UAT) and End User Support for fixing the defects/issues.  • Worked with Team Foundation Server (TFS) control which stores all code, as well as a record of all changes and current check-outs in Project.  • Involved in requirements analysis, design and development of various modules.  • Involved with MVC architectural design pattern.  • Implemented core components in C# that handles business logic.  • SQL scripts and stored procedures were part of the implementation.  • Exporting data into text files using bcp.  • Implemented validation/navigation using Java Script and JQuery and server side validation using c#.  • Involved in styling front end using CSS.    Environment: c#.NET 3.5, CSS, HTML, JQuery, JavaScript, SQL 2008 R2, visual studio 2010, IIS Express, VSS. .Net Application Developer Intel Corporation - Chandler, AZ May 2012 to April 2013 Intel Corporation is an American multinational semiconductor chip maker corporation. Intel is one of the world's largest and highest valued semiconductor chip makers, based on revenue. It is the inventor of the x86 series of microprocessors, the processors found in most personal computers.    Responsibilities:  • Developed a tool for automating the data instead of using the spreadsheets for maintaining a log for all the projects (TAM) under the Ops team. Created a prototype & then user interface using front end technologies HTML, CSS, JavaScript; database using SQL Server 2008 and functional code in c#.Net for the team member to enter data and maintain it further.  • Worked on a SharePoint site from migrating 2007 to 2010. Adding/modifying data within the team site.  • Creating forms using InfoPath which are used as request tools for submissions.  • Developed GUI using HTML, CSS, and JavaScript for a dynamic look and feel.  • Created Master page using ASP.NET  • Implemented validation and navigation using Java Script and JQuery.  • Involved in styling front end using CSS.  • Involved with MVC architectural design pattern.  • Interacted with various levels of teams during support.  • Attended SCRUM meetings, created docs and transitioned many applications.    Environment: c#.NET 3.5, CSS, HTML, JQuery, JavaScript, SharePoint designer 2007/2010, SharePoint migration tool, SQL 2008 R2, visual studio 2010, IIS Express. .Net Developer Compuscan Imaging Inc - Dallas, TX January 2011 to April 2012 CompuScan's products provide "Simply the Best" Document Solutions and services: products include UB Document Management, UB Content Management, UB Business Process Management, UB Enterprise Content Management and GIS document management with Lan and cloud accessibility.    Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed the web pages using ASP.NET Controls and JavaScript  • Migrating the data from one environment to another  • Developed the code to include the requirements for data migration  • Extensively used ASP.NET/CSS/JavaScript to develop Web applications  • Implemented Ajax Extensions like Animation, Slider, Textbox Watermark, Confirm Button etc  • Used the XML web services, used Custom Validation and User Validation  • Used ADO.NET for data access layer to communicate with the database  • Used Application Blocks for data access layer  • Written T-SQL queries and Stored Procedures, Triggers for data access and also used SSRS for generating reports  • Implemented SSIS packages to extract data and load to SQL Server.  • Developed Use case, Sequential, Class Diagrams using Rational Rose  • Unit tested the application and also involved in Integration testing  • Involved in code review sessions.  • Version Control using Visual SourceSafe 6.0    Environment: c#.NET 3.5, CSS, HTML, JQuery, JavaScript, AJAX, SQL 2000, visual studio 2010, IIS Express, cloud computing. Software Developer Teleparadigm Pvt. Ltd August 2010 to December 2011 Teleparidigm provides the confidential data services such as data verification, saving personal information and also the applications which can use the cloud technology to make them cost effective for maintaining servers.  Responsibilities:  • Web application was developed for the conduction of the web-based counseling for allocating seats to students in the engineering sector. Due to heavy load on servers we used the cloud computing technology for handling multiple requests at a time and also by reducing the maintenance cost for keeping the servers when they are not in use.  • Created several web pages for Counseling modules using ASP.net, C#, JavaScript, HTML, AJAX, and SQL  • Created user controls (.ascx) and reused them in several ASP.NET pages.  • Deployed/Configured the web application in IIS web services.  • Written client side validations using Java Script.  • Also worked on Migration project from SQL 7.0 to SQL 2000.  • Created Use Cases for Business Users, fixed bugs in the application at business logic level, and created Unit Test Cases.  • Created functional, technical specification and non-functional documents along with screen notes for the application.  • Hands on experience on deploying source code, testing, giving demos to PA's.  • Worked on Web Pages to upload the file for batch process, view/search the existing Batches status, download page to download the file in different formats using ASP.NET, C#, XML, XSD, Java Script.  • Created user controls (.ascx) and reused them in several ASP.NET pages.  • Deployed/Configured the web application in IIS web services.  • Written client side validations using Java Script    Environment: c#.NET 3.5, CSS, HTML, JQuery, JavaScript, AJAX, SQL 2000, visual studio 2010, IIS Express, cloud computing. Education Masters in Computing Studies in Computing Studies Arizona State University Bachelors in Computer Science Engineering Jawaharlal Nehru Technology University Skills .net, Visual studio, Amazon web services, C#, Cucumber, Git, MYSQL, Javascript Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Programming Languages C#, ASP.NET, .NET Framework 3.5/2.0, SQL, MySQL, NoSQL  Databases SQL Server 2008 R2/2005, My SQL 5.0, Oracle 11g  Operating Systems Windows 7/10, XP, Vista, Windows Server 2008/2016  Web Technologies HTML, CSS, AJAX, XML, Silverlight, jquery, JavaScript, Angularjs, Angular 2.0, Drupal 6.x/7.x/8.x  Tools and Utilities  Visual Studio 2017/2010/2008/2005, SSMS 2008/2017, SharePoint Server 2007/2010, Rational Rose, Eclipse, Adobe Flash, MS Project, MS Office Tools (Word, Excel etc), Visio, SSDT 2017 (SSIS packages), Docker, Prometheus, Grafana    Methodology Waterfall, Agile.  Testing Tools Selenium IDE, Selenium RC, Selenium Web driver, GIT, HP ALM, Cucumber.  Versioning Tools Team Foundation Server (TFS), Visual Source Safe (VSS), SVN, GITHUB  DevOps Jenkins, Amazon Web Services(AWS)  Information Services IIS6, IIS7  Defect Tools JIRA, Cherwell, Trello Board, Confluence  Reporting Tools Crystal Reports, SSRS, Tableau, Microstrategy