Senior Software Engineer/ Developer Senior <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer/<span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Software Engineer/ Developer - L&T Infotech ? 5.3 years of experience in development, testing and support in Banking and Telecommunication.  ? Career focused individual with can-do attitude, great team player and quick learner with attention to details.  ? Experience in development of Ab-Initio Graphs, Plans, Pipelines and SQL and PL/SQL scripts and packages and Unix Commands and Shell Scripting which implement complete business logic, desired user functionality.  ? Experience in analyzing rules written in Rule Hormony Tool.  ? Contributes to decisions about tools, methods and approaches. Reviews and develops standards and procedures.  ? Experience in working on COTS product GENEVA(Telecom Tool). GENEVA skills hands on experience on Product Creation, Tariff Creations, customer structure creation.  ? An ability to communicate with both Technical ( Developers), Non-Technical (customers, management) effectively.  ? Experience in writing unit tests and understand dependencies as per the delivery needs.  ? Responsible to debug and resolve issues identified after close interaction with test teams.  ? Communicate closely with component designers to understand the design and code the requirements for the deliverables in stipulated time frame.  ? Experience in Application Development well aligned with Agile Software development methodologies.  ? Good interpersonal and communication skills. Work Experience Senior Software Engineer/ Developer L&T Infotech July 2016 to Present A-1-2)    WORK EXPERIENCE  Tech Mahindra Ltd  Project BT Billing & Payments Presentation CITI - Singapore, SG July 2016 to Present Description:  Treasury team is resposible for gathering the customer details and customer transaction details and apply required transformations and load the data to Database.Apply the rules on transaction data using Rule Hormany Tool and provide the data to client which will be used for further business activities.    Responsibilities:  As an Ab-Initio developer of CITI Treasry Team is responsible for the following activities-    ? Creating Plans, Graphs, Pipelines and Control Centre Jobs as per the business requirement.  ? Making changes in the existing graphs by understanding the existing graph flow and performance impact.  ? Creating Procedures, Functions, Views and Table in Oracle database as per the requirement  ? Providing 24*7 supports to production to address the LIVE issues.  ? Make sure the graphs are performance tested before delivery.  ? Creating/updating the shell scripts as per requirement.  ? Working closely with Business Analyst and taking immediate actions on concerns raised by the team.  ? Creating Graphs and Plans for configurations which will be used to reduce the manual activities in development and reducing the issues.    Acheiments  ? Got "Pat on the back" a Team award for the exceptional contribution to the projects in handling multiple Tasks and module.  ? Appreciation mails for various tasks from customer, manager and leads Software Engineer/ Developer Tech Mahindra Ltd June 2013 to July 2016 Other Licensed Operator British Telecom, UK September 2013 to June 2016 Duration September 2013 to June 2016    Description:  B&PP Geneva horizontal is the convergent billing platform designed for BT Wholesale Billing Operations, which they used to bill customers (Other Licensed Operator) for products and services such as WA, IX, RPC, LLU, Broadband, CPS On-net and Conveyance usage. The system comprised of a convergent billing COTS product Geneva (a Billing System supplied by Convergys) interfacing with customer management, accounting and mediation systems.    Responsibilities:  As an Ab-Initio developer of Genius & Atlantis Development Team is responsible for the following activities-    ? Developing Graphs as per business requirement to provide the appropriate data by extracting data from DB/files or by loading data into DB/files.  ? Providing wrapper scripts to the developed graphs to make the scripts configurable as per the requirement.  ? Making changes in the existing graphs as per business requirement by understanding the existing graph flow and performance impact.  ? Providing 24*7 supports to production to address the LIVE issues.  ? Currently handling three applications OEPP (Order Entry Pre-Processor) and WCI (Wholesale Call Interface), SRAP for which the technologies used are Ab-initio, Unix.  ? Make sure the graphs are performance tested before delivery.    Acheiments  ? Awarded as "Bravo" for the month October 2014.  ? Awarded as "Spot" at Project Level.  ? Appreciation mails from higher management and Clients.  ? Awarded as "Associate of the Month" for the first quarter of 2015.    L&T Infotech  Project CITI Treasury(BIDW) Education Bachelor of Technology in Technology Priyadarshini College of Engineering & Technology - Nellore, ANDHRA PRADESH, IN Additional Information SKILLS TOOLS  Programming Languages PLSQL, SQL, Unix  Tools Ab-Initio  DataBase(S) Oracle 10g  Operating Systems Windows98, 2000, UNIX  COTS Tools Geneva