Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Software Developer - EPtronics, Inc Long Beach, CA • 5+ years of software development experience in the design, development, and deployment of an Enterprise Web Applications using Java J2EE, including 3+ years working on Android and iOS mobile application using Angular, Ionic technologies.  • Expertise in designing and developing Full Stack web applications and microservices using Angular, Ionic, J2EE Technologies including Spring MVC, Hibernate, Amazon Web Services, JPA, JBoss, Spring Boot.  • Experience in working with many of Java versions JDKs, apache build tools Maven, and Ant.  • Strong understanding of service-oriented principles and related designs, expertise in publishing service logic in POJO classes and exposing them as EJB components.  • Expertise in developing presentation layer frameworks like Angular, Ionic, JSP, HTML, CSS, JSTL, jQuery, JavaScript, XML, and JSON.  • Experience on OOP (Object Oriented Principles) like Inheritance, Polymorphism, Abstraction, and Encapsulation.  • Experience in implementing various Design Patterns including Data Access Object, Session Façade, Service Locator, MVC, Factory, and Singleton.  • Extensively worked on debugging using logging Frameworks such as Apache Log4J and SLF4J.  • Strong experience with the relational database like MySQL, SQL Server, and the non-relational database like NoSQL with good command in SQL, PL/SQL.  • Self-starter and ability to learn new technologies and facing new challenges, strong problem-solving skills, algorithm design, good analytical & communication skills and ability to work independently and perform as part of a team. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Developer Veras Retail - Phoenix, AZ March 2019 to Present Veras Extend is a unique and innovative mobile POS software solution to connect with consumers at the point of decision. It enables retail stores to effortlessly carry out corporate strategies with a powerful pricing engine, enterprise-wide visibility into inventory levels, and the ability to access the customer information and orders across the channels in real time. It is designed to complement retail merchandising and ERP systems. It enables ease of deployment and maintenance with centralized management capabilities.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in Agile Scrum Methodology for the analysis, requirement gathering, design, and implementation, coding, debugging and testing phases of the Software Development Life Cycle.  • Implemented Cross-Platform Design for POS web and mobile application using MVC Architecture and microservices, which accomplishes tight and neat co-ordination of Angular, Ionic, RxJS, JSON, REST, JavaScript, HTML5, Bootstrap.  • Developed Android and iOS applications using MVVM architecture, Restful web services, Angular, and Ionic framework to provide rich user interface experience to the retail consumers.  • Involved in coding, maintaining, and administering Angular, Ionic, HTML5, Spring components and microservices deployed on Apache Tomcat, JBoss Wildfly application cloud servers.  • Extensively used Eclipse IDE and Visual Studio Code for developing, debugging, integrating and deploying the applications on Jenkins automation servers.  • Used JIRA, Confluence, Crucible software development tool for planning, managing, bug tracking, code reviewing, and releasing the project deliverables.  • Extensive work with both GIT and SVN for version control. Proficient with command line, source tree, and in built repository handler in Visual Studio Code.  • Used ANT automated script building tool to compile and package the entire application and implemented the logging mechanism using Log4j framework.    Environment:  Agile, Scrum, Java 8, J2SE/J2EE, Angular 7, Ionic 5, Spring MVC, Hibernate, JPA, JMS, JavaScript, HTML, jQuery, Bootstrap, CSS, Ant, Visual Studio Code, Eclipse, Log4J, Tomcat, Wildfly, JIRA, Confluence, Crucible. Java Software Developer EPtronics, Inc - Gardena, CA May 2016 to February 2019 EPtronics Lightpanel is an Enterprise Lighting Control Internet of Things (IoT) platform for commercial/industrial facilities, providing a comprehensive, all-inclusive solution to operations, energy, and sustainability business constraints. It allows providers, installers, and retailers to bring the benefits of the IoT into the Smart Home or Building. With an easy-to-use graphical user interface and Android/iOS applications, it delivers advanced functionality for real-time energy management, optimization, and building control through features like scheduling, event management, and data exchange. It uses a reliable Bluetooth LE Mesh and ZigBee Mesh networks: the leading standards for wireless building control systems.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in Agile and TDD for the analysis, requirement gathering, design, and implementation, coding, debugging and testing phases of the Software Development Life Cycle.  • Implemented Responsive Design for E-IoT web application using MVC Architecture and microservices, which accomplishes tight and neat co-ordination of Spring MVC, Angular JS, JSON, REST, JavaScript, HTML5, Bootstrap.  • Developed Android and iOS applications using MVVM architecture, AWS services and Bluetooth Mesh frameworks to provide Internet of Things functionalities to the users.  • Implemented the persistence layer and Data Access Object (DAO) pattern using Hibernate, JPA and configured Hibernate with Spring MVC framework to interact with the AWS MySQL database.  • Involved in coding, maintaining, and administering Servlets, JSP, Angular JS, HTML5, Spring components and microservices deployed on Amazon cloud and Apache Tomcat application servers.  • Developed Linux based Java and Spring Boot microservices for the M2M wireless communication between Debian OS based Gateway Controller and ZigBee/BLE end devices and sensors.  • Implemented bi-directional wireless message communication between E-IoT Web App and the efficient Spring Boot API configured Gateway Controller using Amazon MQ and AWS IoT MQTT publisher/subscriber protocol.  • Implemented composite Scheduler microservices logic for automated device-controller communication using Core Java, Spring- Scheduler, Java Multithreading, and Quartz Library.  • Extensively used Eclipse IDE and AWS Toolkits for developing, debugging, integrating and deploying the Docker image of the web application on AWS Elastic Beanstalk.  • Used JIRA software development tool for planning, managing, bug tracking, and releasing the project deliverables.  • Interfaced with the Amazon AWS MySQL and DynamoDB back-end databases using JPA, Hibernate Framework.  • Used Maven automated script building tool to compile and package the entire application and implemented the logging mechanism using Log4j framework and Spring Framework.    Environment:  Agile, Scrum, TDD, Java, J2SE/J2EE, Angularjs, JSP, Servlets, Spring MVC, Hibernate, JPA, Spring Boot, AWS, Amazon MQ, JavaScript, HTML, jQuery, Bootstrap, CSS, Maven, Docker, Eclipse, Log4J, RapidHA Library Protocol, Tomcat, JIRA. Java Developer Pfiger Software Technologies July 2012 to December 2013 Life Plus: Life Plus is CRM System provides up-to-date client serving tools and a vast variety of marketing tools to give a competitive boost to insurance marketing. It is full-featured software for Agents/DO of Life Insurance Corporation (LIC) for clients all over India.  Responsibilities:  • Used Agile Software Development for developing the application and developed Use case diagrams, Object diagrams, Class diagrams, and Sequence diagrams using UML.  • Implemented User Interface and Presentation layer for taxpayer registration forms, and case UI Web Modules Model-View-Controller Architecture that accomplishes Spring MVC, JSP, Servlets, JavaScript, XML, AJAX, and HTML.  • Integrated Hibernate ORM with Spring-Hibernate framework to facilitate DML and DQL queries.  • Used Hibernate to implement the persistence layer for the MySQL database. Developed the Business Logic using Plain Old Java Objects (POJOs).  • Developed and utilized J2EE and JMS components for message communication in Tomcat Application Server.  • Support the application right from Integration tests through System Tests. Created unit test cases using JUnit    Environment:  Java, J2SE/J2EE, JSP, XML, HTML, CSS, Servlets, JMS, Spring, Hibernate, JavaScript, Maven, JUnit, MySQL, Eclipse, Log4J. Trainee Software Engineer / Intern Prishore Services - IN January 2012 to June 2012 Lab Orders and Results (LOR) is a Web-based application that lets you order laboratory tests and view the test results. Automatically retrieves existing patient information and provides quick access to the diagnosis and test order codes that you use most frequently.  Responsibilities:  • Worked with functional leads to discuss business specifications and transformed them into technical requirements.  • Developed the application using Spring Framework that leverages classical Model View Layer (MVC) architecture.  • Created user interfaces for the presentation layer using JSP, HTML, DHTML, and JavaScript.  • Developed business components in the rules engine using business components. XML based configuration is provided to configure rules engine dynamically on the runtime.  • Worked with the database team to analyze the data from the development perspective.    Environment:  Java, JSP, Servlet, Hibernate, MVC, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, Spring, JSTL, Eclipse Tomcat, JDBC, EJB, ANT. Education Master of Science in Computer Science California State University Long Beach (CSULB) January 2014 to December 2015 Bachelor of Technology in Computer Science And Engineering Maharashtra Institute of Technology July 2008 to June 2012 Skills CSS (4 years), Eclipse (4 years), HTML (4 years), Java (4 years), JavaScript (4 years), Spring (4 years), Hibernate (4 years), J2Ee (4 years), Java J2Ee (4 years), Rest (4 years), MYSQL Certifications/Licenses Angular 8 (formerly Angular 2) - The Complete Guide June 2019 to Present Ionic 4 - Build iOS, Android & Web Apps with Ionic & Angular June 2019 to Present The Complete Unity Developer May 2015 to Present Additional Information Technical Skills:    • Languages: Java, JPQL, Android, Swift 4  • J2EE Technologies: Servlets, JSP, JSTL, JMS, JPA, JDBC, JNDI  • Application Frameworks: Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Hibernate  • Servers: Amazon EC2, Apache Tomcat, JBoss Wildfly  • Dev Tools: Maven, JIRA, Confluence, Crucible, Log4J, AWS IoT, AWS S3, Amazon MQ  • Web Technologies: Angular, Ionic, RxJS, Node.js, JavaScript, Bootstrap, HTML, JSP, jQuery, JSON, CSS  • IDEs: Eclipse, IntelliJ Idea, Visual Studio Code, Netbeans, Android Studio  • Databases: MySQL, SQL Server, NoSQL, AWS RDS (MySQL, Aurora, DynamoDB), SQLite  • Web Services & APIs: Amazon Web Services, Restful Web Services, Microservices, BLE, Bluetooth Mesh