Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer Fremont, OH Work Experience Software Developer News 2 You September 2014 to May 2015 Design and develop new sections to web applications using C#, Javascript, Jquery, MVC, Bootstrap and Knockout  ? Design, architect and maintain current SQL database structures using MySql Workbench.  ? Fix bugs discovered in the web applications and push them to QA through TFS.  ? Managed workload through Team Foundation Server and Visual Studio Online. Web Developer III Integrated Marketing Technologies October 2012 to September 2014 Design and develop Web applications, Windows applications and Ecommerce sites for clients using C#, ASP.net, JavaScript, JQuery and Entity Framework.  ? Maintain and add additional features to current websites.  ? Design, architect and maintain current SQL database structures using SQL Server Management Studio.  ? Develop Tools to help the development cycle be faster and more efficient. Software Engineer II AmTrust North America September 2008 to October 2012 Develop Websites and Windows Software Applications for Warranty Department using VB.net, ASP.net, JavaScript and C #.  ? Use SQL Server to extract Client information out of the databases and use in the projects.  ? Develop Tools to help the development cycle be faster and more efficient.  ? Research and development for new products and for business use.  ? Develop iPhone and Android apps for the business on the go.  ? Create base architectures for new applications.    Development Experience:  iPhone/iPad/Android BarCode Scanner - Amtrust North America  Created a barcode scanner application  1 Man Team  Software: XCode, Visual Studio 2010, Microsoft SQL Server, Eclipse  Language: Objective-C/C#, Java    Architect  ? Implemented a barcode scanner in order to scan certain products for the company  ? Implemented web services that connected to SQL Server in order to pull data into the app    iPhone/iPad/Android Reporting Services - Amtrust North America  Took the Reporting site and condensed it down for the ability to have high priority reports on the go  1 Man Team  Software: XCode, Visual Studio 2010, Microsoft SQL Server, Eclipse  Language: Objective-C/C#/VB.Net, Java  Architect  ? Implemented the base architecture for the app  ? Created web services that connected to SQL Server in order to pull data into the app  ? Created a dynamic system that populated the application based on data in the database    Reporting Site - Amtrust North America  Dynamic reporting site that handles all reports for the company  1 Man Team  Software: Visual Studio 2010, Microsoft SQL Server  Language:VB.Net    Architect  ? Created the base architecture for the site which included the database and tables  ? Implemented a dynamic system to where the website did not require pushes after the initial one  ? Implemented the Reporting system to use Stored Procedures and Crystal Reports  ? Implemented a dynamic control system for report filter options  ? Implemented a schedule system for reports to be generated in the background Education Bachelor of Science in Game Development in Game Development Full Sail Real World Education - Winter Park, FL November 2007 Skills SQL SERVER, MYSQL, SQL, VISUAL STUDIO, C#