Lead 3D Software Engineer Lead 3D <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Lead Software Engineer - 3D Visualization Division Pittsburgh, PA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Lead 3D Software Engineer Thoughts Awoke - Pittsburgh, PA June 2017 to Present Lead Developer in the 3D Visualization Division. Lead 3D Developer ISM Services - Carmichaels, PA July 2015 to August 2018 in charge of every aspect of the project life cycle. From programming, to modeling, to animation, to audio, and much more. Many projects included government training simulations, education simulations, game development, and architectural visualizations.  - Developed projects on multiple platforms, including desktop, mobile, and web.  - Excelled on virtual reality projects. I have used multiple applications (see technical tool list below) and found ways to link bridges in software applications where and when needed for any project.  - Expertly managed projects from start to finish including project work breakdown structures, writing RFP's for many clients, including department of defense, designing and engineering the project, then presenting to clients in a professional atmosphere, all meeting or exceeding deadlines.  - Lead team members at Technical Trade Shows on many occasions including being the project designer, engineer, presenter and marketer.  - Primary point of contact for all our 3D and VR clients. I was involved in the hiring and training process of new candidates for multiple software engineering positions.  - Designed, engineered presented and demonstrated 3D and VR project/topics at high schools, colleges and in office demonstrations. Software Developer Engineer ISM Services - Carmichaels, PA July 2015 to August 2018 - Developed and maintained code using Full Stack Methodologies for public facing client sites.  - Performed System Administration tasks on testing, installing and upgrading software packages  - Configured and maintained Apache HTTP and Tomcat servers.  - Developed customizations for ARCHIBUS reports, entry forms and background tasks.  - Worked directly with customers to gather requirements then present with a solution in a timely manner  - Technical support and training existing websites and ARCHIBUS Instances 3D Developer Janus Automation, Southpointe June 2013 to August 2015 - Modeled, animating, rendering of BIM Data  - Creating technically demanding 3D visualizations for clients  - Skillfully demonstrated to potential clients how Janus could implement similar solutions into their businesses Software Developer Lifesteps Inc - Butler, PA April 2011 to June 2013 - Created interactive forms and shared them on a server between 10 counties surrounding Western PA.  - Cut production and mailing costs by going paperless  - Created new form components on the existing SharePoint server  - Used ASP scripting elements, forms on the server would now become interactive rather than static  - Utilized SQL server 2008, fields within forms would be automatically populated from the Active Directory Education Bachelor's in Computer Science Devry University - Pittsburgh, PA 2011 Skills .NET (3 years), 3DS Max (10+ years), AutoCad (5 years), AutoDesk (10+ years), AUTODESK MAYA (9 years), Blender (5 years), Bootstrap (Less than 1 year), Games (10+ years), GIT (4 years), HTML5 (4 years), ILLUSTRATION (Less than 1 year), Illustrator (8 years), Java (6 years), Java Server Pages (4 years), JavaBeans (Less than 1 year), JavaScript (5 years), JIRA (4 years), jQuery (Less than 1 year), JSON (Less than 1 year), Tomcat (3 years), PHP, Android, ASP, HTML 5, MySQL, CSS