Java Full Stack Developer Java Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Full Stack Developer - Wells Fargo - Richmond ca Richmond, CA • Highly motivated software professional with 7+ years of experience in Design, Development, Testing and Implementation of various web based applications using Java, Java EE technologies.  • Strong Service oriented architecture experience using Spring Restful web services and SOAP based web services.  • Experience in Architecture, Design and Development of Object Oriented Software Systems and building complex, high performance, scalable and easily maintainable solutions for N-tier, Web, and Distributed applications.  • Experience in developing Web Applications with various frameworks, Struts 1.x/2.0, Spring 2.x/3.x, Spring MVC, J2EE, JSPs, XML/XSL, HTML5, DHTML, JavaScript.  • Experience in database programming using Oracle 10/11g, SQL Server 2000/2005/2008, DB2, MySQL and proficiency in developing SQL in JDBC as well as client server environments.  • Expertise working on Application servers in clustered environment and Apache Tomcat 6.x/7.x.  • Implemented Service Oriented Architecture by publishing and consuming Web Services, which has been developed using SOAP, Restful protocols, XML, JAXB, XSD and Apache Axis2 framework.  • Performed unit testing using JUnit aiding test driven development in some scenarios.  • Highly adaptable in quickly changing technical environments with very strong organizational and analytical skill • Good experience in writing SQL Queries, Stored Procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, triggers and data connectivity and data integration of Oracle.  • Implementation of enterprise application with jQuery, AngularJs and Spring MVC Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java Full Stack Developer Wells Fargo - Richmond ca March 2018 to Present CORE is dynamic web based project that allows Wells Fargo Home Mortgage Lending Team Members to process a loan from originating to funding. It helps to process a loan by collecting information from the customers like borrower information, Credit, Assets, Liabilities, Purchase price and all other information required to process a loan. Core improves the communication between sales and fulfillment team to provide an enhanced experience.    Responsibilities: • Involved in Designing front end development using JavaScript, Angular JS Framework.  • Worked on configuring Spring MVC with Angular JS using Request Mapping.  • Used Spring Security to implement Single Page Application functionality.  • Developed the Web Interface using Angular-JS, Java Script, HTML5, CSS.  • Used the Spring Rest Services to interact with Business Objects.  • Used Object/Relational mapping tool Hibernate/JPA to perform data base activities and transactions   • Implemented Hibernate POJO Classes, Hibernate Configuration file and Hibernate Mapping files.  • Written test plans and test cases, setup test configurations and executed the tests for different modules and TestNG used for unit testing.  • Request and Response mapping using Spring (AOP) from and to the application server by annotation based spring configuration in Eclipse IDE.  • Used Eclipse as IDE for development.  • Used WebStorm to develop Angular JS Pages and integration with the server.  • Used JIRA for creating tasks, sub-tasks and also for defect tracking.  • Performed end to end testing using Protractor and UI testing using Jasmine.  • Module testing using TestNG and Mockito.  • Involved in peer to peer code reviews and cross checked whether coding standards are being followed and performed integration testing of the module.  • Involved in code versioning, Check-In, Check-outs and code merging using Sub-Version.  • Used Maven to build and deploy application onto JBOSS Application Server.  • Used Java Messaging Services for developing messaging services to interact with different application modules   • Involved actively in Application Production Support.    Environment: Java, J2EE, JDK 1.7, Spring 3.2, Angular-JS 1.5, HTML, CSS, JSON, Bootstrap, MS VISIO, Restful Webservices, Hibernate, JMS, MAVEN, SVN, Oracle 10g, XML1.1, JBoss EAP 6.4.5, Eclipse Juno, TestNG, JIRA Full Stack Developer Vecna Technologies - Cambridge, MA February 2016 to March 2018 Vecna Medical's patient self-service products include a Patient Portal, Patient Kiosk, and Patient Queuing. The Patient Portal is an online application that patients use to complete administrative tasks such as scheduling appointments, registering for appointments, paying bills, and exchanging secure messages with providers. Patients can also view clinical information such as lab results, medication, and patient problem lists. A data exchange platform supports bi-directional data exchange with any brand of hospital EMR/EHR system via a range of interfaces, including HL7, X12, XML and web-services.  The Patient Kiosk is a hospital kiosk that lets patients review their demographic information, verify insurance coverage, pay bills, and check in at the point-of-service. It uses the same data exchange platform as the Patient Portal, which allows patients who have completed registration activities online to check in with a barcode    Responsibilities: • Followed Agile - Scrum methodology for development of the product. Using Atlassian Jira Agile for Agile scrum project management/update.  • Implemented the application with XP methodology as Agile process, refactoring the existing code and writing new code.  • Developed the web pages Java, JavaScript, JQuery, Angularjs, HTML5, CSS and J2EE technology framework using Spring 2 (MVC, JDBC), Hibernate, and Web Services with J2EE design patterns using Eclipse.  • Developed and consumed restful web services using Apache CXF Framework.  • Worked on Hibernate object/relational mapping according to database schema.  • Involved in creation of Test Cases for JUnit Testing.  • Performing code deployments to local Tomcat server for testing in Ubuntu Linux environment.  • Worked on Git Repository for code integration and version control.  • Continuous integration using Jenkins on tomcat.  • Used Maven and Ant for Build Automation; ensuring proper settings, avoiding/solving any errors.  • Participating in and performing Code Reviews and/or Pair programming of peer development.  • Executed tasks on XML registry, XSLT/XQuery and transformation capabilities.  • Worked on AJAX implementation for retrieving the content and display it without reloading the existing page. Worked on JSON to populate required modules in jQuery.  • Worked on designing and executing the automation scripts using Selenium.  • Involved in improving the site tuning and performance of webpages by HTTP profiling in chrome and Firefox.  • Developed an HTML parser and then build the DOM tree with that and using this DOM tree one can split out the XML document.  Environment: J2EE, Eclipse 3.x, Java Script, JQuery 1.x, Angularjs 1.4, node.js, Apache CXF, Tomcat 6.x, CSS, AJAX, XML, XSLT, ANT, JUNIT, WSDL, PostgreSQL 9, log4j, Jenkins, Git, JSON, Ubuntu Software Developer Bank of America - Calabasas, CA December 2014 to January 2016 CPIEC (Corporate Payments Import-Export & Consolidation) caters to the payment related functionality of the bank for Corporate and Individual customers. The customer can make payment instruction to the bank using CPIEC. Payment instruction can be created for both domestic and international payments. These instructions are processed at the bank and payment is made to the beneficiary.    Responsibilities: • Used Object Oriented Design and Object Oriented Programming concepts like Polymorphism, Inheritance, Interfaces, Generics and Collections.  • Extensively involved in design and implementation of front-end User Interface development using HTML, DOM, CSS, JSP, JSTL, Java script and perl scripting, JQuery, Dojo and AJAX.  • Created HTML and JSP's for Graphical User Interface.  • Identified and implemented the user actions (Struts Action classes) and forms (Struts Form classes) as a part of Struts framework.  • Used Struts-Tiles as reusable components for JSP's and developed user views using custom tags from JSP's and data validation using Struts for easy expendability of the project.  • Used TDD software development methodology.  • The controller uses XML mappings in Struts to map the request to the server side functionality.  • Used Stateless Session Beans (EJB) in session façade and for implementing business logic.  • Used and Message Driven Beans (MDB EJBs) for sending Payment messages to backend servers to process the payment.  • Created ANT build file for deploying the application on the server.  • Extensively developed the application user Interface using JSP custom tags and JSTL.  • Used PL/SQL, Stored Procedures for handling Database in Oracle.  • Used SOA concepts to implement Web Services integration.  • Used Hibernate framework to deal with the all database related transactions.  • Developed the Maven build scripts for building the EAR file and used Eclipse as an IDE.  • Used Apache Log4J logging API to log errors and messages.  • Worked with QA for testing, Production releases, Application deployment, integration and conducted walk -thru code reviews.  • Worked closely with various interfacing teams for smooth and bug free delivery of application under mission critical time lines.  • Involved in solving the production issues and coordinated with the off-shore team.    Environment: Java 1.6, Apache Struts 2.0, Hibernate 3.0, JSP 2.0, Servlets, Web services, HTML, CSS, AJAX, XML, XSLT, XSD, PL/SQL, JQuery, Jboss, Oracle 11i, Maven, Eclipse, Log4J, UNIX, Windows XP. Software Developer SPi Global - Chennai, Tamil Nadu December 2013 to November 2014 Responsibilities: • Redesigned the existing site and to create new interfaces.  • Developed HTML prototypes and ready XHTML documents with CSS style sheets.  • Designed dynamic client-side JavaScript codes to build web forms and simulate process for web application, page navigation and form validation.  • Followed the Agile and Scrum development methodologies.  • Used JQuery core library functions for the logical implementation part at client side for all the application.  • Did Cross - Browser coding, for making pages compatible will all browsers.  • Designed Banners, Icons and Logos.  • Experience in User Acceptance Testing (UAT) and Accessibility Testing.  • Produced GUI prototypes for business logic presentations.  • Worked closely with system analyst to understand the technical requirements of the projects.    Environment: HTML, CSS, XHTML, JavaScript, JQuery, Agile and Windows. Java/J2EE Developer MetLife Insurance - Chennai, Tamil Nadu July 2012 to November 2013 Project Description: • Disability Income Application is used for the Underwriting and Administration of Disabilities products. This is a Maintenance and Enhancement Project for Individual and Institutional policies of MetLife.    Responsibilities: • Extensively used Core Java, Servlets, JSP, XML and spring in presentation tier.  • Generated the Hibernate XML and Java Mappings for the schemas • DB2 Database is used to store the system data • Eclipse was used as Integrated Development Environment (IDE).  • Unit testing for all the components using JUNIT.  • Apache Log 4j Logging framework for logging of trace and Auditing.  • Asynchronous JavaScript and XML (AJAX) for better and faster interactive Front-End.  • Worked with IBM Web-Sphere as the Application Server    Environment: Java, Servlets, JSP, JQuery, Eclipse, WebSphere 6.0, AJAX, Oracle 9i, log4j. Education Bachelors in Information Technology in Information Technology Anna University 2008 Skills AJAX (4 years), Eclipse (5 years), Java (5 years), JavaScript (5 years), JQuery (5 years), Angular, Node, React, Python, PHP, Java, J2EE, JDK 1.7, Spring 3.2, Angular-JS 1.5, HTML, CSS, JSON, Bootstrap, MS VISIO, Restful Webservices, Hibernate, JMS, MAVEN, SVN, Oracle 10g, XML1.1, JBoss EAP 6.4.5, Eclipse Juno, TestNG, JIRA (7 years)