Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer - AT&T Plano, TX 4+ years experienced Software Developer and AWS certified Developer with Master's in Computer science.  * Results- driven Software Developer valued for driving quality and consistency throughout all phases of software  development projects with process oriented and detailed oriented.  * Adept at partnering with developers, analysts, QA and support engineers throughout the product lifecycle to  produce high-quality, user-friendly, scalable and bug-free software.  * Proficient in Core JAVA/J2EE components, such as Collections, Exception Handling, JSP and Multi-threading.  * Experience with multiple scripting and programming languages, including: Java, C, C#, JavaScript, SQL, Swift.  * Highly adaptable in fast paced project environments with very strong organizational and analytical skills  * Excellent in working with the Database environments Oracle, MySQL and SQLite. Work Experience Software Developer AT&T - Plano, TX 2019 to Present Full stack development and support of AT&T web based sales application, OPUS using Java 8, JSP, Spring MVC, Micro services, Spring Boot, REST API, Soap web services, JavaScript, JSTL, JSON, Java JMS services, Java  RMI, Git version control, XML, Maven, Ant, Kibana, Linux, HTML and Oracle DB.  * Migrated legacy Struts code to Spring platform application and integrated code with Micro Services.  * Actively participated in daily scrum calls for requirement gathering, analysis, development, testing and production  support of new enhancements in Shift Left, CI/CD Process.  * Excellent debugging skills and good hands on experience working with Oracle web logic, Agile Craft, code cloud, source tree, bit bucket, Insomnia REST Client, SVN, SQL Developer, Glow Root and Test Development Platform.  * Provided occasional off-hours support or collaboration in cases of production-impacting issues  * Worked in Agile and Rapid Deployment environment with high adaptability in analyzing and developing code.  * Demonstrated good communication and presentations skills while collaborating with other team members.  * Good hands on experience in using version control and branching techniques using Git, bit bucket and source Tree.  * Involved in troubleshooting production and QC issues for resolution on applications and perform root cause  analysis for production incidents.  * Performed application performance monitoring using Glow Root for monitoring and enhancing App performance.  * Designed and architect solutions, working closely with other software engineers, product owners, and management  to define and deliver ongoing commitments.  * Proficient in Computer Science fundamentals - algorithms, design concepts, problem solving, design patterns, virtualization, database design, troubleshoot, presentation and complexity analysis.  * Good Understanding and usage of DevOps processes for the build and deployment.  * Accountable for meeting all deliverable dates for task assignments and team development experience. Mobile Application Developer - Capstone Project Halliburton - Houston, TX 2018 to 2018 Project: PlanItWell iOS App  * Developed native iOS application for geology students in tracking their field trips and upload the required data.  * Developed mobile application using Swift 4, SQLite, Google Firebase, Apple Map kit and AWS services.  * Worked on PlanItWell web application, developed in Node js and Angular js and deployed in AWS EC2 Instance.  * Highly motivated to delivery all the deliverables of PlanItWell native iOS app within the committed deadline.  * Worked on Agile to make PlanItWell App to appear on Apple App Store. Graduate IT Assistant University of Houston - Clear Lake - Houston, TX 2017 to 2018 Project: UHCL SCE Web Application  * Developed a web application using knowledge of PHP, PowerShell, AD, LDAP, batch files, shell scripting, JavaScript, bootstrap, CSS, Linux fundamentals, jQuery, ajax, Linux administration and windows server  administration for University of Houston - Clear Lake.  * Contributed to the research by providing materials on various object-oriented technical design and information  needed to automate the creation of various students and faculty accounts.  * Created a dashboard for student, faculty and admin module. Software Developer Tech Mahindra - Hyderabad, Telangana 2014 to 2016 End Client: Bank of Nova Scotia, Canada  * Hands-on experience and Java Trainee on web application development using Java, J2EE, JSF, Hibernate, Spring  MVC, SQL, SOA, JSON, Rule Engines, web services, HTML5, Java script, jQuery, Ajax, Bootstrap, XHTML.  * Worked with a team of 30 members as a productive individual and a good team player with leadership potential.  * Experienced in agile software development and custom application development for financial services.  * Good knowledge of banking industry with core knowledge of Systems design and agile processes.  * Developed 50 SQL stored procedures for data manipulation operations in backend.  * Worked on 3 million lines of code and fixed defects in applications running on test driven development.  * Involved in software development life cycle like design, analysis, development, testing and release cycles.  * Lead important module of project and demonstrated ability to effectively prioritize workload and meet deadlines.  * Provided appropriate feedback on project management and process improvement in a timely, appropriate format  with good organizational and coordination skills.  * Demonstrated strong analysis, troubleshooting skills, written and verbal communication skills.  * Demonstrated ability to communicate effectively with both technical and non-technical individuals.  * Estimated engineering effort; implemented optimizing prototypes into production code and led execution teams.  * Good Team Player with positive attitude, works well with others, independently and communicates effectively  with both technical and non-technical individuals.  * Proficient in MS office Suite, word processing, spreadsheet and presentation creation tools.  * Exhibited Creativity and resourcefulness at problem-solving while collaborating with team. Education Master of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science University of Houston - Houston, TX 2017 to 2018 Skills API, C#, DOCKER, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, MYSQL, Git, HTML 5 Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/razia-sultana-patan-25749a87