Full Stack Java Developer Full Stack Java <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Java Developer Fairfield, IA Passionate software developer with extensive education and 2 years of hands-on experience developing full-stack applications, including project requirement analysis, user interface design, module development and integration, and database schema. Strong communicator and fast learner, using multiple languages and tools such as Java, Angular, NodeJS, MongoDB and MySQL to implement various robust software solutions which successfully meet project goals. Developed and implemented successful projects using the latest SDLC methodologies, Java frameworks, design patterns, and web services. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Full Stack Java Developer BlogBook, MUM 2019 to Present Worked to design and develop knowledge-based web application to display, search, and upload articles. Implemented back end, account system, JWT encryption, and front-end pages.  Technologies Used: Angular, HTML, SCSS, Angular Material, Bootstrap, JWT, NodeJS, Express, MongoDB, Mongoose, OpenID Connect Java Software Developer ANTON DE KOM UNIVERSITY - Paramaribo, SR 2017 to 2018 intern) - Designed and developed both desktop and web applications.    Tasks Performed:  • Updated datalogger OS and configured to send data over FTP.  • Automated transfer of data from datalogger to local storage.  • Developed desktop application which automates transfer of data from local storage to MySQL.  • Implemented back end and front end of web application to view and download data through servlets and HTML.  • Created account system to differentiate administrators and users.    Achievements:  • Avoided single point of failure by storing data in 2 locations.  • Dramatically improved efficiency by automating data storage.  • Ensured accessibility of data from anywhere.  • Upgraded security with administrator access to user data.  • Showcased project to international investors, which led to sponsorship of university.    Technologies Used: Java, Servlets, JSP, FTP, HTML, CSS, MySQL  786-583-5504 • anish.kisoensingh@gmail.com • https://www.linkedin.com/in/anish-kisoensingh Owner & Manager SMART IMPORTS, Wanica - SR 2011 to 2018 Managed day-to-day details and oversight of entire import company. Finalized deals with national and international clients, performed Human Resources activities, and mentored trainees. Car Sale Website, ADEK 2017 to 2017 Developed web application in which auto dealermay uplod inventory and users may book test drives, schedule maintenance, and give feedback.  Technologies Used: Java, Servlets, JSP, HTML, CSS, MySQL Car Sale Website, ADEK 2016 to 2016 Built desktop application for clients to customize floor plans. Upon submission, application system displays finalized image, summarizes components required for interior, and calculates prices.  Technologies Used: C++ Education Master of Science in Computer Science in distance education Maharishi University of Management - Fairfield, IA June 2021 Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering in Information Technology Anton de Kom Universitet van Suriname - Paramaribo, SR 2018 Skills Spring, Java, Javascript, NodeJS, Express, Angular, Spring boot, JSP, HTML 5, CSS3, Bootstrap, MongoDB, MySQL Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/anish-kisoensingh Certifications/Licenses Oracle Certified Associate July 2018 to Present