PHP/JS Full Stack Developer PHP/JS Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> PHP/JS Full Stack Developer - Graybox Boynton Beach, FL Systems Engineer with 7 years of experience in Internet software product development and all their  components and architecture. From the stakeholders, through the development team until a functional  product that gives great value and improves business processes.    With a mix of skills like (communications skills, social skills and good interpersonal relationships) I do not have  problems to be part of multidisciplinary teams, share my previous experiences and learn all things  necessaries to achieve the project goals. Work Experience PHP/JS Full Stack Developer Graybox March 2018 to Present An applications-team member, we worked solving issues on customer applications using Jira as a ticket  management suite and scrum as our work framework.    Upgrade applications that used old frameworks version to it's new versions with support.  Take customer requirements and translate them to doable tasks on Jira.  Create new functionalities on the backend (PHP, MySQL, Redis) and frontend (React.js, vue.js) sides.  Solve and optimize performance, functional and data issues on the customers applications using Jira. Full Stack Developer Grupo I33 May 2014 to April 2018 Designing software products that enable companies to improve productivity, customer relationships, employees relationships, improve performance in teamwork. To achieve this, we use different technologies such as PHP, Javascript, MySQL, Amazon Web Services, cPanel and tools like Machine Learning and AI  algorithms, UX Experience. Some of my responsibilities:    Meetings with stakeholders, to get their requirements and translate them into shippable tasks (user  stories, tasks, epics).  Architectural and integrations design, (preferred languages frameworks and technologies -frontend, backend, infrastructure, and deployment).  Lead the team in development tasks, code review and VCS management.  Help to product owner to prioritize tasks, based in better impact over development.  Version deployment on production, staging and development environments.  To generate reports and measure the application Growth, Engagement and generate. IT System Administrator Organización Carvajal October 2013 to May 2014 IT infrastructure maintenance, automation of backup tasks, implementation and management of infrastructure in the cloud Amazon Web Services AWS, CPanel, SQL Server. Administration and management of load balancers, databases, source code deployment. Development of process automation scripts for Linux  (Red Hat, Centos), Windows Server 2012. Support for task development in PHP, Javascript and SQL.    https://www.visualcv.com/gbhx-sj_fbe/ Software Engineer Diseñonet Ltda June 2012 to September 2013 Develop maintain applications in (PHP, Symfony, MySQL, Javascript) and for clients focused on the pharmaceutical sector, optimize and improve existing developments, provide support on the tools that our  company offers to customers, management of Application production environments on Windows and Linux. Software Developer Inteligencia en Servicios January 2010 to May 2012 To develop different kind of functionalities about Joomla, Drupal and Wordpress. To attend requirements of support and to resolve mistake in their webs sites and apps. To manage IT infrastructure (Windows Servers and VOIP Servers) to different customers. Education Bachelor's degree in Management in organizations Université du Québec à Chicoutimi - Chicoutimi, QC 2014 to 2016 design Universidad EAN 2012 to 2016 Skills AMAZON WEB SERVICES, C++, DOCKER, Git, JAVASCRIPT, D3.JS, VUE.JS, JENKINS, PHP, LARAVEL, SYMFONY, PYTHON, DATABASE ENGINE, DATABASE, SQL SERVER, MYSQL, ORACLE, SQL, STORED PROCEDURES, WEB SERVICES, Node, Jquery, React