Software Developer in Test Lead <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> in Test Lead Software Developer in Test Lead - iHeartMedia Austin, TX Work Experience Software Developer in Test Lead iHeartMedia - Austin, TX July 2017 to Present Lead test automation framework design on CI/CD cloud architecture    As the SDET lead I directed efforts in designing, coding, and maintaining our test  automation suite on our CI/CD pipeline that incorporated AWS, Kubernetes, Docker, and Jenkins.    Designed Test Suite and new User Case Flows    As the lead QA expert for three product teams. I designed and implemented the tests  scheduled to be automated or run manually during all major test cycles. The tests tested a multitude of technologies including REST APIs and microservices, Kubernetes, AWS cloud  infrastructure, Billing and Credit Card Data, Big Inventory Data sets, Cassandra, and SQL.    Automated Tests along with Team  In addition to leading automation efforts, I also was automating tests myself for different  levels of testing including: Unit, Integration, API Testing, Contract Testing, Regression, Smoke and ETE Functional Testing to ensure 100% testing coverage. The tests used the  following technologies: Ruby/Cucumber/Gherkin/HTTP Party/AWS  CLI/Javascript/Typescript/Protractor, JSON    Lead Multiple Off Site QA Teams and Mentored Younger SDETs/QAs    I lead three teams at about 3 QAs each for a total of 9 QAs at any one time through multiple testing cycles and product releases. On top of that I mentored younger QAs and  managed their time commitments, expectations, and project work. For automation, I code  reviewed team members test automations and reported on test burndowns, metrics and velocity for the team.    Managed Production Releases and Operation Support  During production releases, I managed UAT testing and reporting. I also communicated  expectations between developers and stakeholders. Usually for a couple weeks after the release, I would manage production operations and remain on call for bug triage and RCA  assistance. Software Developer in Test Vail Resorts - Denver, CO October 2014 to July 2017 Developed Internal tools and Testing framework    As the solo SDET for our development team. I owned developing internal testing tools and the testing framework to test the Ecommerce Platform. The technologies used were:  NodeJs, Express, MochaJs, Chai, HTML5, CSS3, SASS, Ruby/Rake, JSON, Selenium for .NET  applications hosted on AWS Cloud Infrastructure    Mentored younger QAs    I mentored younger QAs and also managed their commitments, project work, and deadlines. Lead the QA team multiple times through tight deadlines while ensuring a high  level of quality.    Documentation of all Test Design and Coverage efforts in Confluence and JIRA    Wrote and categorized all documentation around test plan, test coverage, test design, and testing metrics    Designed and Coded Digital Analytics for Ecommerce websites    Designed Adobe Analytic tracking for ecommerce websites and implemented multiple  tracking tags. Software Engineer Accenture - Austin, TX April 2013 to October 2014 Developed Testing Framework and Automated tests    Was one of four team members to develop a locally run automated testing platform for Health and Human Services Industry using Javascript, NodeJS, MochaJs, JSON, Chai,  Selenium Java Spring applications    Designed Test Suite and Ran User Case Flows  Designed and executed testing flows for all stages of testing including API, Functional, and UAT testing    Troubleshooted defects and debug code    As the main point of contact, I troubleshooted and debugged code and reported on relevant RCAs    ? Education B.S. in Mechanical Engineering Lamar University - Beaumont, TX August 2007 to December 2011 Skills Cucumber (1 year), JAVASCRIPT (2 years), Ruby (4 years), JIRA (2 years), SELENIUM (4 years), QA, Test Automation, Automate, MySQL, Git, HTML 5 Additional Information Skills Test Automation: Ruby/Rake HTTP Party, Cucumber, Gherkin, Javascript Typescript,  NodeJS, MochaJS, Chai, Selenium, Protractor, Capybara, WireMock, BDD/TDD principles  Automation Servers/Task Runners: Jenkins, Gradle, Grunt  Infrastructure: AWS, S3, EC2, Docker, Kubernetes. Microservices  Data Logging: Metricbeat, Logstash, Elasticsearch, Kibana  Unix: Shell Scripting,  Databases: Cassandra, MYSQL 2008  Team Workflow and Tools: Agile, Scrum, Kanban, and Waterfall, Jira, Trello, Zephyr    ?