Sr. Java Developer Sr. Java <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Developer Plano, TX • 8+ years of IT experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Implementation and Testing of Enterprise Applications in the Client/Server environment using Java/J2ee in Client-Server, 3-tier and n-tier applications.  • Proficient in all phases of SDLC (analysis, design, development, testing and deployment) and highly competent in gathering user requirements.  • Expertise in several J2EE technologies like JSP, Servlets, Java Scripts, Web Services (SOAP, WSDL and UDDI) JSF, Hibernate, spring, EJB, Ajax, JAVA Beans, JNDI, JMS, JAVA Mail, XML, Sockets using IDE's LIKE ECLIPSE.  • Experience working in MVC framework using Spring Framework including Spring MVC, Spring Security, Spring Micro Services, Spring IOC, Spring Boot, Spring JPA and Spring Cloud  • Expertise in application development using various frameworksSpring MVC, Java Server Faces(JSF) and Hibernate.  • Good Experience with JavaScript framework Angular 2.  • Experienced in client side designing and validations using HTML, DHTML, CSS, Java Script, AJAX, JSP etc.  • Experience with Databases like Oracle 10g/11g, MYSQL, SQL SERVER 2008, MongoDB.  • Extensive working experience with SOAP and Restfulwebservices.  • Hands on experience working with Web and Application Servers such as Apache Tomcat, IBM WebSphere, JBOSS.  • Ensure the continuous availability of our mission critical MongoDB clusters.  • Extensive use of Version Controls like CVS, SVNand Google Code subversions.  • Implementation, design, architecture and support of cloud-based server and service solutions(AWS)  • Experienced practitioner of waterfall and Agile methodologies. Work Experience Sr. Java Developer AT&T - Plano, TX October 2017 to Present Project Description: NBC Learn has digitized more than 12,000 stories from the NBC News archives one of the largest news archives in the world, dating back to the 1920s. In addition, collections are updated with current events every day, Monday through Friday, with stories from such celebrated programs as NBC Nightly News, the TODAY show, Meet the Press, Dateline NBC, as well as the networks of MSNBC, CNBC, and Telemundo.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in creating and extracting data from database using SQL Queries, PL/SQL Stored procedures, triggers, and packages on Oracle database.  • Identifying appropriate AWS service based on compute, data availability, security requirements and storage.  • Using Java script validation frame work for performing front end validations  • Involved in planning process of iterations under the Agile Scrum methodology.  • Extensively involved in coding with core Java concepts like Collections, Multi-Threading, Exception Handling, Java I/O, and Generics to implement some business logic.  • Worked on API documentation using Swagger  • Involved in system design and development using Collections and multithreading for the action classes.  • Designed and developed the login portal using framework Angular 2.0 along with HTML5, CSS3 and Type Script.  • Worked on the RESTWebservices and used Spring Framework and developed the Spring Features like Spring Core, Spring IOC, Spring AOP, Spring Data Access, and spring web test, Spring MVC, Spring DAO, Spring Boot, Spring Batch, Spring Security, and Spring Integration.  • New full text search feature implementation using Elastic Search.  • Efficiently handled periodic exporting of SQL data into Elasticsearch.  • Creating Rich UI applications using Angular2 integrating with REST API's built onMicro services.  • UsedMultithreading, Concurrency and implemented threads while preparing and generating mails.  • Implemented AngularJS Controllers to maintain each view data and Angular Service calls using Angular Factory.  • Micro services development by providing design and POC model. And develop microservices using spring boot.  • PL/SQL developer was used for connecting to Database. Spring JNDI were used for data source connection.  • Migrating existing application into REST based Microservices to provide all the CRUD capabilities using Spring Boot.  • Designed and coded application components utilizing a Test-Driven Development approach (TDD).  • Developed User interface using Angular JS, JSF, JSP, CSS, JavaScript, HTML, Ajax, JQuery and JSON.  • Creation and maintenance of data using Oracle database. JDBC for database connectivity with Oracle.  • Followed Agile with SCRUM methodology to track project progress.  • Maven tool has been used for the build and deploy the batch component with JPA.    Environment: J2EE, Java 1.7-1.8, Eclipse, spring, Spring Integration, HTML5, CSS3, AWS, XML, bitbucket, SQL, Spring Boot, Angular 2, JavaScript, TDD, Microservices, Oracle SQL Developer, Restful, Newman, SVN, Agile, Jira, Tomcat, Spring Boot, Elastic Search, Log4j. Java/ J2EE Developer First Tennessee Bank - Memphis, TN June 2016 to October 2017 Project Description: Digital Banking 2.0 is First Tennessee's enhanced Banking Online system that will replace the current Banking Online system. The new system will deliver all the banking conveniences with upgraded features, including new budgeting tools, savings goal setting and tracking functions, improved alert functionality, as well as the ability to pull the customer financial accounts, with First Tennessee Bank and other institutions, into one convenient place.    Responsibilities:  • Conductedanalysis of organizational needs and goals for the development and implementation of application systems by involving with business personnel.  • Taken care of Java Multithreading part in back end components  • Involved in consuming a SOAP web service in Java.  • Designed and developed application using Core Java, J2EE (JSP, Servlets), Spring MVC, Spring Boot and Oracle.  • Implemented Spring MVC framework for the application development which includes writing Controller classes for handling requests, processing form submissions and performed validations.  • Developed Unit and E2E test cases using Jasmine and Grunt.  • Providing Java programming support for existing and new applications.  • Used HTML5, CSS3andJavaScript for content layout and presentation layer (UI) designing. Used JavaScript, jQuery for client-side validations and AJAX for reports display.  • Developing Web applications using Java, J2EE, Spring and Hibernate.  • Used Log4j for logging and debugging.  • Used SVN to keep track of source code versioning.  • Worked on tuning of back-end Oracle stored procedures using OracleSQL Developer.  • Creation and maintenance of data using Oracle database. JDBC for database connectivity with Oracle.  • Created Maven scripts to build and deploy the application.  • Followed Agile with SCRUM methodology to track project progress.    Environment: J2EE, JDK1.7, Eclipse, spring framework, hibernate, spring boot, Rest web services, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, XML, Subversion, SQL, Oracle SQL Developer, SOAP, SVN, Agile, Jira, Web Logic 10.3.6, Log4j. Java/ J2EE Developer NBC Universal - New York, NY November 2014 to May 2016 Project Description:AT&T controls different modules in the era of communications. MyATT Payments POD plays most important role in the AT&T Hub. This application helps customers in making payments online through SLID for different services provided by AT&T. It also provides a user-friendly interface to the customers in making payments.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in requirements gathering, UI design and design of application workflows.  • Converted and automated builds using Maven and scheduled automated nightly builds using Cruise Control and maintained Continuous integration effort with Cruise Control along with scheduled builds.  • Designed and implemented the MongoDB schema and wrote services to store and retrieve user data from the MongoDB for the application on devices.  • Worked on development and as well as a part of testing team in creating test documentation required for the QA team.  • Created shell scripts and updated the scripts as per the requirement and prepare UNIX shell scripts for testing the application.  • Using selenium web driver and TestNG created the automated test cases suite.  • Developed API using Node.js to allocate access to data in SQL, MongoDB.  • Developed web services test cases suite using SOAPUI pro for both Restful and SOAP web services.  • Used Mongoose API to access the MongoDB from NodeJS.  • Enhanced UI using JSF, HTML, and JavaScript, Develop and deploy the applications on Web Sphere Application Server 6.0/7.0.  • Used Web services - WSDL&SOAP for getting credit card information from third party.  • Deployment of the applications using Apache tomcat server.  • JUnit test cases to test Web Services functionality before integration with client.  • Extensively worked on J2EE Technologies to develop the project, Followed Spring MVC Framework for the development of the project.  • Used Hibernate as ORM tool and defined the mapping, coordinated with QA team to ensure the quality of application.  • Involved in Unit integration, debugging the code, bug fixing, acceptance testing with test cases, code reviews.  • Supported production environment including monitoring application, resolving any production related issues.  • Developed security authentication using spring security for the application.  • Exposed RESTFUL Web services, with Chart Specific parameters passed as query string.  • Extensive Performance testing is being done to determine the responsiveness and stability of the system.  Environment: SQL Server, JUnit, JSP, JSON, JPA, JavaScript, DHTML, HTML, CSS3, Ajax, Restful services, SOA, SOAP UI, Spring security, Tomcat server, Jenkins, Nodejs, MongoDB, Selenium, Eclipse, Maven, IBM MQ, JMS, Agile Methodology. Java Developer DispatchTrack - ANDHRA PRADESH, IN February 2012 to September 2014 Responsibilities  • Involved in the complete Software Development Life Cycle including Requirement Analysis, Design, Implementation, Testing and Maintenance.  • Developed application using J2EE design patterns using Façade Design pattern, Singleton, Session.  • Developed scalable multi-threaded enterprise application using company framework, helped to extend our company framework with new functionality.  • Designed and implemented customized exception handling to handle the exceptions in the application.  • Involved in developing code for obtaining bean references in spring framework using Dependency Injection (DI) or Inversion of Control (IOC) using annotations.  • Used Hibernate, object-relational-mapping (ORM) solution, technique of mapping data representation from MVC model to Oracle Relational data model with aSQL-based schema.  • Prepared Junit test cases and executed the test cases using Junit in eclipse.  • Developed code mostly using core-java to source data from upstream systems using files and other API's and then perform ETL operations and finally load into different IQ databases performing various transformations.  • Extensively used JQuery selectors, JQuery AJAX with JSON objects.  • Implemented REST, SOAP, XML, WSDL web services to communicate with components of other Sourcing systems within the firm and to provide data to the reporting team.  • Performed various validations using spring validation framework.  • Worked on SQL queries and PL/SQL and actively involved in the production support.    Environment:Jdk 1.6, Spring 2.5, GitHub, Eclipse, WebSphere Application server, JSP 2.0, JQuery 2.0, JSF Framework, JDBC, Hibernate, XML, MS SQL, SOAP, REST, Junit 4.4, SVN, Log4j, UNIX, Ant 1.8, Agile Scrum, JBoss Application Server 6.1, JIRA. Software Developer Hinduja Global Solutions - ANDHRA PRADESH, IN December 2009 to January 2012 Project Description: The project involved the development of a website through which library services could be easily known and accessed for two different kinds of clients the users and the administrators. The project functionalities involved Searching and finding the availability of a book, addition of new books, reviewing due dates and calculation of fee and fines, reserving an already checked out book and other links to other resources.    Responsibilities  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  • Used Rational Rose for the Use Case Diagrams, Object Diagrams, Class Diagrams and Sequence Diagrams to represent the detailed design phase.  • Front-end is designed by using HTML, CSS, JSP, Servlets, JSTL, Ajax and Struts. Used javascript for client-side validation  • Involved in writing the exception and validation classes using Struts validation rules.  • Persistence layer was implemented using Hibernate Framework.  • Created Servlets which route submittals to appropriate Enterprise Java Bean (EJB) components and render retrieved information.  • Developed various EJB components to fulfill the business functionality.  • Written ANT scripts for building application artifacts, Used JUnit for unit testing.  • Monitored the error logs using Log4J and fixing the problems.  • Used XML with SAX parser to transfer data between applications.  • Wrote PL/SQL stored procedures, Prepared statement and used API.  • Created Unit, Acceptance and Integration Test Documents and Code Review Documents.  • Used WebSphere Application Server for deploying various components of application.  • Involved in writing and executing stored procedures, functions and triggers for ORACLE to create a Database Management System.  • Used CVS for version control and used Eclipse as the IDE for implementing the application.    Environment:Struts, Hibernate, J2EE, WebSphere, Java 1.6, XML, SAX, JSP, JMS, HTML, JavaScript, Servlets, Eclipse, Web Services, JUnit, Unix, Ajax, EJB, ANT, CVS, Oracle. Education Bachelor's Skills AJAX (8 years), ECLIPSE (8 years), J2EE (8 years), JAVA (8 years), JSP (8 years), Angular, Java J2Ee, Hibernate, Spring, Javascript, Rest, Soap, php, asp, html, mysql Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Database Skills Oracle 10g/11g, MongoDB, MySQL, SQL Server 2008.  Programming Languages JAVA 1.6-1.8, PL/SQL, J2EE  Frameworks JSF,JSP, JDBC, JNDI, Servlets, JQuery, Struts 2.0, Spring2.0-4.0, Spring Batch, Spring Integration, Hibernate3.0-4.3.  Web Technologies HTML5, XML, CSS, XSL, AJAX 2.0, XSL, XHTML,Swagger, JQuery, Angular 2, Node.js, XSLT, JSON  Web/Application Servers JBOSS, Apache Tomcat 7.1, WebLogic, IBM WebSphere  Web Services SOAP and Restful, Bootstrap, JMS.  Scripting Languages Java Scripting, PERL Scripting, Shell scripting  Build Deploy Tools SDSS, JAP 7, Maven, ANT  Operating Systems LINUX, UNIX, Windows 7, Vista, XP, 2000, 98.  Version Controls CVS, SVN, Git  IDE Eclipse,NetBeans,Rational Rose,Intellij.  Testing Tools JIRA, Junit4