Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Engineer Cliffside Park, NJ Thinks outside the box, viewing each problem in different  perspectives to design a scalable solution. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Developer Ifndef Studio - Cliffside Park, NJ January 2019 to Present Game in Unity complete with asset creation, animations, music created on logic pro x  Build: Unity, C#, Multi platform, Touchscript  Date: 2018  2D Game built on unity. Ground up development with the exception of touchscript input library. Registering events, designing cutscenes, all done within one cookie cutter base level. Able to pump out levels in an instant - designed for handheld as well as pc. Part of a trilogy. Software Engineer Nine - Morristown, NJ December 2018 to Present Phone Application for Android and IOS that uses Google Maps API and Google Places API along with MSSQL database    Build: Xamarin, C#, Visual Studio, Ios, Android, Windows, .NET, Google Maps API, Google Places API, MSSQL 2012, ASP.NET, Entity Framework 6  Date: 2019  Application for the handheld device built on the multiplatform xaml forms in xamarin deployed to IOS and Android. Designed to help users pick out the best card to spend to earn maximum cashback. Interact with google api to get place details and maps to aid users to pick and see results. Minimalistic view appealing to minimalists. Contains ads. This application supports some off-line functions that deal with data. Software Engineer TenFour - Morristown, NJ August 2016 to Present Application Analyst, Designer, and Programmer    TenFour Service Catalog  Build: C#, .NET 4.7, MSSQL, Azure DevOps, Azure Continuous Deployment, VS 2019, Entity Framework 6, MVVM, AngularJS  Date: 2016 - 2018  Developed from scratch: In-network application that allows building a network of IT materials and parts to group them together as a singular package to build a catalog of IT solutions to sell to mid-level markets. Price and cost analysis are configurable and automatic with the use of user defined variables and formulas for each IT part. Sandbox allows the testing environment of adding and removing adjustments of discounts or adding margins to add to the pipeline of price configuration. Three types of catalog allows user to control the lifecycle of an IT solution, each catalog allows for different price schema and configuration as well as cost and price discounting/marginations. Configured with APIs to Salesforce and Cisco CCW API. Configured to output data in excel (.xlsx) to allow users to personalize any analysis reports. Asynchronous Built-in reports of cost and price analysis included.    TenFour Order Entry  Build: C#, .NET 4.7, MSSQL, Azure DevOps, Azure Continuous Deployment, VS 2019, Entity Framework 6, MVVM, AngularJS  Date: 2018-2019  Developed from scratch: In-network application that allows building a collection of orders in the form of RFCs. RFC output configuration and styling is maintained in the form of excel (.xlsx). Allows for a smooth transaction between inventory of theoretical data items with physical items. Outputs a print-ready excel format that you can convert to PDFs and send to DocuSign to await signature. Takes built solutions from the Service Catalog OR a specific input template to form RFC for a given customer. Rate Card includes a series of rates per item solution or addons to a solution at a given date. Ability to request the snapshot of a rate card for a customer at a particular date. Inventory allows the tracking of IT solutions and its parts to bill and keep other information such as serial number / mac address or any user defined fields per solution or per part. Allows tracking of procurement, movement, and shipment of each individual part as well as the whole solution. Future releases will contain APIs to FedEX or UPS to allow automatic tracking. Future releases will also contain inventory APIs and salesforce APIs to connect with DocuSign to allow automatic tracking of status for approval on an RFC.    TenFour Customer Administration  Build: C#, .NET 4.7, MSSQL, Azure DevOps, Azure Continuous Deployment, VS 2019, Entity Framework 6, MVVM, AngularJS  Date: 2019  Improved and maintained: In-network application that allows the company to keep track of their customers and each location of a site as well as important contacts of the site and/or customer. Verifies address of the site through SmartyStreetAPI and Google Places API.    TenFour Site Survey Application  Build: Xamarin, C#, .NET 4.7, Azure DevOps, Azure Continuous Deployment, VS 2019, Lite SQL, Entity Framework 6  Date: 2019  Improved and maintained: Public-private application that allows a user to create an IT infrastructure “survey” of a site given a blueprint of the site. Has drag and drop modules and connected with storage and database to save data on the cloud as well as the ability to do off-network work, in which case it will store data to save as a batch once the user connects online. Ability to deploy to Android, IOS, and Windows tablet. Application Developer Rutgers University - New Brunswick, NJ June 2015 to August 2016 MSCS portal for Rutgers University  Build: JS, Java 8, Tomcat, CSS, HTML5, D3.js, SOAP, MySQL, Linux  Date: 2015 - 2016  Created a user web portal for the computer science masters program to introduce the program for general public users, create a repertoire of individual and group ongoing projects throughout the university, rss feed university talks and events, create an interactive list of classes and degree planner using d3, and all-in-one ‘cards’ of individuals that displays projects, classes, awards, and grades that a student has received, providing different information depending on authorization, groups, and roles provided by a pre-existing account within the university’s sakai portal. Education Rutgers University New Brunswick - New Brunswick, NJ August 2014 Bergen Community College - Paramus, NJ September 2009 Skills .NET, c#, azure, windows,visual studio, html5, css, angularjs, javascript (4 years), ASP, Xamarin, Android, Android Studio, Visual Studio, Xamarin.Android, Xamarin.IOS, Xamarin Forms, Google Developer, Apple Developer, (1 year), Git (5 years), SQL, MYSQL, MSSQL (5 years), Unity (1 year), Java, Java EE, Apache Tomcat, Linux (1 year)