Job Seeker Work Experience Github January 2019 to April 2019 Built a chat application using Java, that supports direct messaging, group messaging, message forwarding  and queueing. Used JUnit and Mockito for unit testing.  ? Created an admin portal with functionalities to get all the users' names, last active time, and chat history  from the MySQL database. Developed RESTful web services using Spring Boot.  ? Integrated Jenkins pipeline to automate the build and test phases and monitored the code quality using Stock Market October 2018 to December 2018 Oct. 2018 - Dec. 2018  ? Preprocessed the Reuter's news dataset to scrape the news headlines, using NLTK, and Gensim.  ? Performed Topic Modeling on TF-IDF model of headlines to find categories of news that affect stock prices.  ? Performed feature engineering based on topic distribution probabilities and sentiment scores of headlines, using pandas.  ? Used scikit-learn to predict rise or fall in the stock prices by training a Neural Network using the feature  vectors, with response variable being the change in stock price per day.  • e-Learning Web Application Oct. 2017 - Dec. 2017  ? Developed front-end using AngularJS and the RESTful APIs using Node.js, Express.js and MySQL database.  ? Created Relational Schema Mapping for the MySQL database and performed normalization of the tables. Software Engineer Intern Clean Harbors - Norwell, MA May 2018 to December 2018 Added new features to the company's document management application, using C#, to handle uploading  and searching of contract documents across multiple libraries.  ? Optimized the performance of the module using DynaTrace to limit the average response time to under 4  seconds. This increased the number of hits per month by 30%.  ? Performed unit testing using MSTest and NUnit frameworks.  ? Developed PowerShell scripts and Microsoft workflows to automate tasks on SharePoint document libraries. Software Developer Hewlett Packard Enterprise - Bengaluru, Karnataka August 2015 to July 2017 Created a responsive cross-platform mobile application for healthcare services using AngularJS.  ? Used Microsoft Azure mobile app services to integrate user authentication, push notifications and enabled  offline data synchronization using SQLite.  ? Used Cordova plugins to show graphical visualizations of vital information for patients.  ? Triaged issues by debugging service requests and responses using Fiddler. Education Master of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science Northeastern University - Boston, MA September 2017 to Present Bachelor of Engineering in Computer Science and Engineering in Computer Science and Engineering Visvesvaraya Technological University - Belgaum, Karnataka August 2011 to June 2015 Skills Sql server, Mysql, Sql, Html5, Java Links http://www.varsharaom.com Additional Information Technical Knowledge  • Languages: Python, Java, C, JavaScript, C#, C++, PHP, HTML5  • Frameworks: Spring, Spring Boot, Hibernate, React, Angular, jQuery, Node.js, Express.js  • Databases: SQL Server, MySQL, MongoDB