Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer - Liberty University Lynchburg, VA Work Experience Software Developer Liberty University - Lynchburg, VA September 2017 to Present • Working with Microsoft Dynamics CRM/365  • Building/maintaining various API's, Plugins, Windows Services, and Web Services to fit customer requests  • Developing professional skills such as:  ? Communicating with customers through various mediums (Email, face-to-face, video conferences)  ? Taking customer requirements and breaking them down into workable Jira cases  ? Writing documentation on how to properly use/maintain my projects  ? Working with a team of developers who collaborate on most projects  • Gaining proficiency in programming with the following languages:  ? C#  ? JavaScript  ? SQL  • Gaining proficiency with the following frameworks  ? Front-end:  * Vue.js  * Knockout.js (maintaining legacy code)  ? Back-end:  * .NET  * .NET Core Project Manager Apprentice Liberty University - Lynchburg, VA September 2016 to September 2017 • Assisted and shadowed Project Managers within the IT Development department with the following tasks:  ? Time Reporting  ? Note taking  ? Project Build outs  ? Product Support  ? 3rd Party and In-House Customer Relationships  ? Product Release Notes  • Managed several small projects and work packages from start to finish  • Ran daily scrum meeting for tracking team duties Operations Intern Genworth Financial - Lynchburg, VA June 2015 to September 2016 • Supported the Front End Document Processing, Central Files, and Box Audit teams  • Tasked with improving processes and finding efficiencies  ? Helped create a method for keeping track of scanned document box inventory by date and business segment  ? Assisted in defining the process for preparing paper files for scanning  • Delivered and picked up interoffice mail at Genworth's Customer Service Center  ? Three month assignment, performing five mail runs daily going to 21 mail stops on each run throughout 3 buildings  ? Trained a new employee for this position at the end of the three month assignment  • Imaged and audited policy files  ? Prepared bundles of files to be scanned  ? Scanned paper files into electronic images  ? Performed box audit, comparing paper copies of policy files to the electronic documents Education Bachelor of Science degree in Information Technology Liberty University - Lynchburg, VA May 2021 Skills C#, Html, Javascript, Sql, Css, Java, Excel, Powerpoint, Microsoft word, Word, ASP, HTML 5, Git Additional Information SKILLS:  • Javascript  • C#  • SQL  • Java  • HTML  • CSS  • Microsoft Word, PowerPoint, Excel, Vizio