Software Engineer II <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer II SOFTWARE DEVELOPER - VERIFACTS INC South Beloit, IL To use my technical expertise in the software development field, while finding new and exciting challenges to conquer. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Engineer II TDS Telecom - Madison, WI April 2017 to Present Update and manage 50+ Linux servers on a daily basis.  Preform routine server maintenance as well as passwords changes.  Helped implement Jenkins automation systems into windows virtual servers.  Improved old python 2.7 scripts for performance and implementation into Jenkins automation.  Developed monitoring scripts to check disk space, certificate expiration and firewall permissions.   Lead Oracle Administration team on refreshing databases and troubleshooting Siebel End to End environment.  Monitor Siebel on production, End to End as well as development environments to ensure available on time for customers, developers and other teams.   Lead code deploys to production servers and ensure proper documentation is available for upper management and auditing.   Create new tables and indexes in Oracle SQL. SOFTWARE DEVELOPER VERIFACTS INC - Sterling, IL March 2015 to March 2017 • Lead Software developer for VeriFacts Inc.  • Cooperated with upper management to complete projects  • PERC Certified.  ? Passed through background investigation check that included fingerprinting.  • Fluent in programming languages C#, C++, C, Java Script, and Java.  • Developed and maintained webpages using ASP.NET, Classic ASP, and Html.  • Fluent in SQL Server 2008.  ? Developing Stored Procedures.  ? Developing and maintaining tables.  ? Managing foreign and primary keys.  ? Managing Indexes.  ? Creating and updating SQL Jobs.  • Working with upper management to develop systems to create a positive work atmosphere.  • Take initiative to solve IT problems directly with coworkers.  • Works independently to run updates and patch systems without being direct supervision. Education BACHELOR OF SCIENCE in Computer Science WESTERN ILLINOIS UNIVERSITY December 2014 Skills C# (2 years), SQL (2 years), Javascript (2 years), Java (2 years), Asp.Net (1 year), IIS (2 years), HTML 5 (2 years), Classic ASP (2 years), C++ (Less than 1 year), C (Less than 1 year), Windows 7 (3 years), Windows Server 2008 (2 years), Linux (3 years), Python (3 years), Oracle SQL (2 years), Siebel CRM (3 years), Jenkins (3 years), SVN (3 years), NET