Job Seeker ? Having 2.9 years of experience in Web Application Development, and Deployment and involved in various phases of Software Development phases.  ? Experience on developing applications using C#.Net, ASP.Net, Asp.Net MVC, SQL SEVER, HTML, CSS and Java Scripting Languages.  ? Having good exposure in Object Oriented programming design and implementation.  ? Involved in N-N software development phases like design, development, and maintenance of web applications.  ? Worked on presenting the data in different views from different data sources using different Asp.net controls.  ? Hands on validating the data as per client requirements.  ? Extensively worked on Database objects like Data Adaptor, Data Reader, Data and Table Data Set to access and update the data from database.  ? Extensively worked on client side as well server side State Management techniques.  ? Having good experience in developing web applications in n- tier architecture.  ? Hands on Sqlserver Database design, Database Maintenance, developing Queries, Stored procedures using sqlserver2012.  ? Good knowledge in .net Framework, Asp.net, Asp.net MVC, Html, CSS, JavaScript.  ? Good knowledge in database concepts at SQL Server 2008/2012 versions.  ? Have worked extensively on Asp.net MVC architecture.  ? Ability to learn new concepts and Good communication, inter-personal skills, ready to work in any environment.  ? Experience in Web API services Work Experience MGINFOMATICS October 2018 to Present Entity Framework, Ado.Net, Web API, HTML, Java Script, CSS.  Duration: Oct 18 to till Date.    Description:  Bulk SMS messaging is a legacy description for application-to-person SMS messaging services. It refers specifically to the sending of large number of SMS messages to the mobile phones of a predetermined group of recipients.  Today the application-to-person SMS messaging services have evolved to include bulk SMS messaging alongside the sending of single messages (such as one time passwords and delivery notifications), interactive messaging (such as group messaging services), and incoming number services (such as mobile marketing campaigns, voting or information lines).  A defining characteristic of bulk SMS messaging is that businesses and organizations can make use of one or more solutions to send and receive SMS messages, namely; a mobile phone application, a software programmer, a web interface, or integrate an SMS API with their website or system. These bulk SMS messaging solutions interface with a service providers' SMS gateway to ensure the delivery of messages to mobile phone numbers anywhere in the world.    Responsibilities:  • Developing the code in Asp.net MVC architecture.  • Involved in developing the code in N-Tire architecture using C#.Net, SQL Server  • Involved in the development of ASP.NET MVC web page.  • User Grid View, controls and customer controls with JSON to provide flexible, editable and sortable grid view to increase user interaction.  • Strong knowledge on Error Handling Concepts such as Try, Catch and Finally.  • Good skills on State Management Techniques-View Bag, View Data and Temp Data.  • Worked with Application server- Internet Information Service(IIS).  • Working with Web API service.  • Working with Entity Framework and ADO.NET to data access to stored procedures    Technical Environment: C#.net, Asp.net MVC, Web API, JSON, Ado.net, SQL Server.    Project #2    Project Title: SIM Management System.  Role: Software Developer  Client: Siyona Software  Organization: MG Informatics Pvt Ltd  Team Size: 5  Tools Used: Visual Studio 2013, SQL Server2012. Software Developer MGINFOMATICS - Hyderabad, ANDHRA PRADESH, IN July 2016 to Present Technical Skills  Platforms: Windows7 and Windows10.  Languages: C#.net  Web technologies: HTML, Java Script.  Frameworks: Asp.Net MVC Framework  Databases: MicroSoftSqlServer-2012  ORM Tools: LINQ, Ado.Net, Entity Framework  IDE/Tools: MS-Visual Studio-2013 and 2015.  Configuration Tools: TFS.    Project #3    Project Title: Bulk SMS System.  Role: Software Developer  Client: In House Project  Organization: MG Informatics Pvt Ltd  Team Size: 5  Tools Used: Visual Studio 2013, SQL Server2012. Additional Information Technologies: C#, Asp.Net MVC, Entity Framework, Ado.Net, HTML, Java Script, CSS.  Duration: May-2017 to Oct-2018.    Description:  The high-level scope of the project is to develop an application for providing business application for Service, Distribution&Activation SIM Process. This project is segregated by modules and they are: Dealer Module, Admin Module, Sales Admin Module, Nam Director, Nam Rep, and Sales Director & Sales Rep    Responsibilities:    • Presentation, Business layer and Data layer coding for Admin, Sales Admin module.  • Developed Stored Procedures in SQL Server 2012.  • Responsible for establishing the connection with data sources.  • Involved in creating tables Implementing Stored Procedures,  • Developing the code in Asp.net MVCarchitecture.  • Involved in developing the code in N-Tire architecture using C#.Net, SQL Server  • Development, Support and Maintenance of database as well as web application.  • Extensively used Grid Views and Repeaters with Sorting and Paging.  • Designed and developed presentation layer using Asp.net Rich Controls.  • Involving in development of Security, State Management issues,  • Involving in development of Security, State Management issues,  • Developed stored procedures using SQL SERVER.  • Designed the UI and related code at the presentation layer.  • used ASP.NET Validation Controls for server side validations and also  Client side validation based on the user's browser.    Technical Environment: Asp.net MVC, C#.net, Ado.net, SQL Server.    Project #1    Title: HR Management Systems  Client: In House Project  Date: Oct 2016- May 2017  Organization: Mginfomatics Pvt Ltd.  Team Size: 4.    Description:  The HR function consists of tracking existing employee data which traditionally include personal histories, skills, capabilities, accomplishments and salary. To reduce the manual workload of these administrative activities, organizations began to electronically automate many of these processes by introducing specialized Human Resource Management Systems. Human Resource Management Systems encompass: payrolls, Work Time, Benefits Administration, HR management Information system, Recruiting, Training/ Learning management System.    Responsibilities:  • Maintains employee information by collecting, calculating, and entering data.  • Updates employee records by entering changes in exemptions, hike the salary details, salary deductions, and job title and department/division transfers.  • Prepares reports by compiling summaries of earnings, taxes, deductions, leave, disability, and nontaxable wages.  • Maintain the employee information.  • Resolves payroll discrepancies by collecting and analyzing information.  • Maintains payroll operations by following policies and procedures; reporting needed changes.  • Maintains employee confidence and protects payroll operations by keeping information confidential.  • Contributes to team effort by accomplishing related results as needed.  Technical Environment: Asp.net, C#.net, Ado.net, SQL Server.