Python & Java Full Stack Developer Python &amp; Java Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python & Java Full Stack Developer - Anthem • Extensive experience as a Full Stack Developer. Responsible for developing web based, SOA based and client/server applications in multi-platform environments with Java/Spring Boot technologies.  • Actively involved in a Screening Application development, built upon MERN stack in a team collaborated effort.  • Experienced with Web/Application development as a Python Developer with skills in analytical tools, machine learning (Scikit-Learn) and MVC web frameworks (Django and Flask).  • Hands on experience in relational databases like MySQL, PostgreSQL and NoSQL databases like MongoDB.  • Proficient with Amazon Web Services (AWS) like EC2, Virtual Private Clouds (VPCs), S3 Storage, Caching Services (Memcached, Redis), Identity & Access Management (IAM) and Scalability and Load Balancing techniques.  • Experience in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) process which incorporates Requirements Gathering, Analysis, Development, Testing and implementing life cycle which utilizes approaches like Agile and SCRUM.  • Proficient with knowledge of data structures and design patterns.  • Experience in developing and consuming RESTful web services to retrieve configuration JSON documents. Work Experience Python & Java Full Stack Developer Anthem - Sterling, VA January 2018 to Present Industry Classification using Data Analysis (Python)  • Performed Clustering and Classification analysis on companies listed at Nasdaq, based on the stock data, relevant news articles and company description.  • Regrouped the companies under new industry and sector labels based on the predictions and analysis performed using Machine Learning: K-Means and Doc2Vec algorithms.  • Developed the architecture using MongoDB as a data dump from multiple API sources, Jupyter Notebooks (Python) for data Analysis and utilized AWS cloud services like EC2, Lambda, AWS Pipeline (CI/CD) and S3 for storing preprocessed data files.    Screening Application (MERN stack)  • Actively developing full stack web & mobile application (SPA) using MERN stack (MongoDB, ExpressJS, ReactJS and NodeJS) for recruiters and technical interviewers to assess candidate's skills on-the-go.  • Responsible for Authentication module and to integrate with third party authentication using OAuth2 and implemented industry level security standards using Hash and Salt for storing passwords.  • With a 68% success rate, developed an algorithm to detect call fraud in interviews, using Microsoft Speaker Recognition API.  • Designed and developed the Scheduling module with calendar view (using external API) for easy scheduling and developed an efficient database architecture using MongoDB.  • Integrated third party applications like Google Hire and Employee Resource Management apps using APIs.    Employee Management System (Java Spring Boot)  • Developed full stack web application to manage employee resources.  • Responsible for timesheet module where employees can log the time on a projects and employer can approve/reject the timesheet to calculate the salary of the employee.  • Using MVC framework, developed backend on Spring boot and MySQL.  • Developed frontend on ReactJS and using Restful APIs interacted with backend in a secure environment.  • Tested developed restful APIs using Postman and chrome developer tools. Software Engineer Newgen Software Inc - Noida, Uttar Pradesh January 2016 to June 2016 Full Stack Java based application  • Experience with Newgen Products providing BPM, ECM, CCM, and DMS solutions in an Agile development environment.  • Developed a Java (Spring Boot) based web app to create Agent Portal for a banking client.  • Responsible for migrating the database architecture to improve the performance and increase the scalability of the application by developing an efficiently designed database schema.  • Integrated the application with internal products of Newgen like OmniScan and OmniDocs using APIs.  • Designed and developed the front end of application using HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript. Responsible for validating user input on the frontend of the application and displaying user friendly errors. Education M.S. in Computer Science in Computer Science The University of Texas at Arlington - Arlington, TX August 2016 to May 2018 B.E. in Computer Science & Engineering in Computer Science & Engineering Chitkara University August 2012 to May 2016 Skills Django, Docker, Git, Hadoop, Javascript, Reactjs, memcached, Php, Codeigniter, Python, Flask, Matplotlib, Numpy, Pandas, Pyspark, Svn, Database, Mysql, Postgresql, Sql Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  • Programming Skills: Python, Java, SQL, PHP, JavaScript, NodeJS, ReactJS  • Database: MySQL, MongoDB, PostgreSQL, AWS - RDS, AWS - Memcached  • Cloud Platforms: Amazon Web Service (AWS), Microsoft Azure, Google Cloud Platform (GCP)  • Frameworks: Flask, Django, Spark, Hadoop, CodeIgniter, Angular  • Machine Learning Libraries: Scikit Learn, Pandas, Numpy, Scipy, PySpark, Matplotlib  • Software Concepts: Agile, Scrum, Sprint, SDLC, UML, ER  • Utilities: Version Control (Git, SVN), JIRA, Putty, WinSCP, SSH, FTP, JMeter, Docker