Software Engineer <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Software Engineer - Vertify Inc Austin, TX Work Experience Software Engineer Vertify Inc - Austin, TX 2017 to Present CAREER NOTE: Completed on-campus studies and currently taking distance education courses to complete a Master's Degree in Computer Science (Available for full-time, W-2 employment).    Vertify Inc, Austin, Texas, US • 2017-now Vertify is an integration platform as a service (iPaaS) providing a robust and scalable 100% cloud-native solution.  Vertify's web-based interface enables declarative drag and drop integrations to be composed with a no-coding necessary.  Utilizing change data capture functionality and data backed by a secure cloud data warehouse, Vertify is capable of implementing low-latency, API friendly, and adaptive integration solutions adding value on top of a customer’s existing services.    Software Engineer  Designs and creates new connectors used to integrate from cloud and on-premises systems using C#/.NET using a wide variety of connection types: SOAP, REST, SFTP, IMAP, ODBC, S3, etc.   Builds Groovy based Jenkins pipeline scripts for CI/CD to build, test, and deploy connectors, web services, MVC applications, Nuget packages, and Chocolatey based command line and winforms applications.   Troubleshoots and enhances the entire Vertify stack (UI, services, and task engines) by fixing issues, building windows installer packages, redesigning components to allow for scaling/redundancy, and maintaining/enhancing support/system admin tools.    • Technologies: ?       C#, .NET, .NET core, xUnit, Visual Studio/Code, Windows Service, Jenkins. Windows form, SQL Server, AWS, Azure, Nuget, Chocolatey, ASP.Net/MVC, Wix, Resharper.     515-771-9605 • 10610 Morado Circle. • Austin, Texas 78759  hoangnguyen9605@gmail.com • https://www.linkedin.com/in/hoang-nguyen-9605 Developer INTERSOFT - Hanoi, VN 2015 to 2016 Created web applications and websites using RUP methodologies, NFC technologies, and Entity Framework to ensure maximized productivity, accuracy, and efficiency. Connected applications with optimized SQL databases. Communicated effectively with management and team members to ensure final delivery of quality product.    • Technologies: C#, ASP.NET MVC5, Umbraco, WPF, Bootstrap, CSS, JavaScript, Angular JS, JSON, MS SQL Developer FPT SOFTWARE - Hanoi, VN 2013 to 2015 Designed and developed both Windows desktop and Web applications, including complex back-end logic such as camera morphing and automated image conversion from EMF to SVG. Analyzed client requirements to maintain customer satisfaction.    • Technologies: C++, Visual Studio, Windows, C# .NET. Education Master of Science in Computer Science in distance education Maharishi University of Management - Fairfield, IA December 2020 Bachelor of Science in Software Engineering in Discrete Mathematics FPT University - Hanoi, VN 2015 Skills .NET (5 years), Android (2 years), ASP (4 years), ASP.NET (4 years), AWS (2 years), Bootstrap (2 years), C# (5 years), C (2 years), databases. (4 years), JavaScript (3 years), JSON (4 years), MS ASP (2 years), MS SQL Server (2 years), RUP (2 years), SOAP (4 years), SQL (4 years), SQL Server (2 years), Visual Studio (5 years), WINDOWS PRESENTATION FOUNDATION (2 years), WPF (2 years), Git, jQuery, MySQL, PHP, CSS, Angular (3 years), Restful (4 years) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/hoang-nguyen-9605 Certifications/Licenses Driver's License