Sr. Python Developer Sr. Python <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - Bank of America Charlotte, NC • Over 4 years of IT Experience in designing, developing, testing and implementing multiple languages and experience in Design, Development, Implementation of Python, Django, Flask, Pyramid and client-server technologies-based applications, RESTful services, AWS, JAVA, React JS, Angular JS, HTML/CSS, JavaScript and SQL.  • Expertise in developing web-based applications using Bash, Perl, Python, PHP, XML, DHTML, XHTML, Ajax, JOOMLA, CSS, HTML, JSON, JavaScript, and Bootstrap.  • Expertise in Python Development and Scientific Programing and using NumPy and Pandas in Python for Data Manipulation.  • Expertise with most of the web scale services on Amazon Web Services (AWS)  • Expertise in AWS like Amazon EC2, Amazon S3, Amazon Redshift, Amazon EMR and Amazon SQS.  • Expertise in using libraries such as NumPy, SciPy and Pandas for data analysis and numerical computations.  • Expertise working in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python/PHP) Architecture.  • Expertise in using NOSQL libraries like MongoDB, Cassandra, Redis and relational databases like Oracle, SQLite, PostgreSQL and MYSQL databases.  • Expertise in all the phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) using Project management tool JIRA.  • Expertise Extensive knowledge in Python, Core Java, MySQL, XSL, Oracle, UNIX, LINUX and with Streaming platforms like Apache Kafka.  • Experience in NodeJS, implementing NodeJS callbacks, NodeJS web server, NodeJS Restful.  • Proficient in web application by using Python, Django, AWS, J2EE, PostgreSQL, MySQL, Oracle 10g and MongoDB.  • Expertise in various Python packages such as Celery, NumPy, SQL Alchemy, Beautiful soup, Pickle, PySide, PyMongo, SciPy, PyTables, PyUnit.  • Great Knowledge of Cloud Computing (Open stack (Helion), SDN (OpenFlow/Open daylight), NFV, Cloud Foundry, Docker, Ansible, Chef, Jenkins  • Efficient knowledge in using different version control systems like Git, Perforce and GitHub.  • Proficient intranet portal for managing Amazon EC2 servers using Tornado and MongoDB.  • Expertise in Unit testing, Integration Testing and generating of test cases for web applications using Junit and Python Unit test framework Hudson/Jenkins in the builds triggered by each push to GIT.  • Expertise in reporting tools like Grafana, Kibana (ELK) for setting up charts and graphs for better visual representation of test results.  • Expertise in Spring, Hibernate, Struts application frameworks Experienced in implementing Web services using WSDL, SOAP, REST  • Experience in scripting languages like Angular JS, React JS, Vue JS and Node JS.  • Expertise with AWS services like S3, ELB, EBS, Auto-Scaling, Route53, Storefront, IAM, Cloud Watch, RDS.  • Expertise in Kubernetes to deploy scale, load balance, and manage Docker containers with multiple namespace versions.  • Expertise in using Shell scripting for automation by following Python PEP.  • Experience in developing application in Single Page (SPA's) using various JavaScript frameworks such as Angular JS and React JS.  • Expertise in implementing Object Oriented Python, Hash Tables (Dictionaries) and Multithreading, Django and MYSQL.  • Expertise on various applications using python integrated IDEs Sublime Text, PyCharm, Spyder and IntelliJ.  • Expertise infrastructure from inhouse servers to AWS cloud and used Docker Container, EC2, IAM, RDS, Route 53, REST API gateway and Lambda of AWS.  • Expertise in entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Expertise with Querying RDBMS such as My SQL, SQL server and SAS.  • Expertise in JavaScript frameworks to replace frontend of a Flask application and began implementing a React solution.  • Expertise in Bash Shell Scripting, SQL and Java.  • Expertise in using CI tools Hudson, Build Forge, and Jenkins for automated builds.  • Expertise with agile development methods like agile/scrum, TDD, BDD, peer code reviews, continuous integration.  • Expertise in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on SQL database.  • Expertise in design patterns such as MVC using Django, Flask and deploying application on Apache tomcat server, containerizing applications using Docker.  • Expertise building mockups, GUI layouts by using HTML5, DHTML, XHTML, XML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Expertise in UNIX shell scripts for business process and loading data from different interfaces to HDFS.  • Expertise in using Scikit-Learn and Stats models in Python for Machine Learning and Data Mining.  • Strong experienced in SQL, PL/SQL programming, Stored Procedures, and Query Optimization.  • Expertise in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM process including Sprint planning, backlog grooming, Daily Standups and Code review. Work Experience Sr. Python Developer Bank of America - Charlotte, NC April 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Developed web-based applications using Python, Django, PHP, AngularJs, Reactjs, XML, CSS, HTML, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Developed SonarQube for code quality check and Nexus repository and integrated them into Jenkins to achieve Continuous Integration.  • Developed Python APIs to dump the array structures in the Processor at the failure point for debugging.  • Developed Consumer-based custom features and applications using Python, Django and HTML.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing python, in order to build an interactive web-based solution and used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Designed front end and backend of the application utilizing Python on Django Web Framework.  • Involved in the development of programming user interface design and front-end (HTML) for the Web application using Django templating language to the requirements of the client.  • Designed and developed a horizontally scalable APIs using python Flask.  • Involved in development of Web Services using and REST for sending and getting data from the external interface in XML and JSON format.  • Used automation Jenkins for continuous integration and continuous delivery (CI/CD) on Amazon EC2.  • Used Angular 6 Http services for asynchronous validations for the input fields of the forms with the data existed in the database.  • Implemented Terraform to manage the AWS infrastructure and managed servers using configuration management tools like Chef and Ansible.  • Developed consumer-based features and applications using Python and Django in test driven development.  • Developed ETL process for continuously bulk importing catalog data from MySQL into Elastic search.  • Implemented MVC/ MVW architecture using Servlet, Django, and RESTful, SOAP web service and SOAPUI.  • Involved in various phases of the project like Analysis, Design, Development, and Testing.  • Used Python OS module on UNIX environment, made job cloning and forking and wrote Python modules to extract/load asset data from the MySQL source database.  • Developed consumer-based features and applications using Python, Django, pyramid, Flask, Web2py, HTML and other web technologies.  • Integrated Redis-Cache with the Django-rest-framework for reading the data faster and implemented RESTful Web-Services for sending and receiving the data between multiple systems.  • Launched Kubernetes to provide a platform for automating deployment, scaling and operations of application containers across clusters of hosts.  • Developed the notification service by posting the JSON request in AWS API Gateway, AWS Glue Validating the response in Lambda by getting the data from DynamoDB and sending the notification through AWS SNS.  • Designed and implemented a dedicated MySQL database server to drive the web apps and report on daily progress.  • Developed and Tested features of dashboard using CSS, JavaScript, Django, and Bootstrap.  • Launched Kubernetes to provide a platform for automating deployment, scaling and operations of application containers across clusters of hosts.  • Involved in developing the Angular.JS Meteor framework for the Single Page Application development also wrote ansible Playbooks with Python, SSH as the Wrapper to Manage Configurations of AWS Nodes and Test.  • Developed front-end components using Angular6, TypeScript, Angular Material and NgRx-bootstrap and Node.  • Developed code for Responsive web design in JavaScript using frameworks like Angular.js, React.js.  • Worked on Jenkins by installing, configuring and maintaining for Continuous integration (CI) and for End to End automation for all build and deployments.  • Wrote SQL Queries and implementing stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, Cursors, triggers.  • Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all its commands.  • Implemented REST API's in Python using micro-framework like Flask with SQL Alchemy in the backend for management of data center resources on which OpenStack would be deployed.  • Involved in coding side with object-oriented Python, Flask, SQL, Beautiful Soup, httplib2, Jinja2, HTML/CSS, Bootstrap, jQuery, Linux, Sublime Text, GIT. Python Developer Cox Automotive - Atlanta, Georgia, US October 2016 to August 2017 Responsibilities:  • Developed complex web, middleware, and back end systems in Python, SQL for Linux and Windows.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Involved in configuration management automation tools such as Chef, Puppet and Salt and having Good coding experience with scripting languages like Perl, Ruby and Bash.  • Involved in testing and upgrading in Routine Linux application; new product evaluation and system impact analysis and supported Apache Server on Linux Platform.  • Involved with structures, semi-structured and unstructured data, using a broad range of data science programming languages and big data tools including R, Python, Spark, SQL, Scikit Learn, Hadoop Map Reduce.  • Utilized Python libraries like python, NumPy, SciPy, Web2py and developed Business Logic using python on Django Web Framework.  • Involved in analysis, specification, design, and implementation and testing phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and used agile methodology for developing application.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Implementing Microservices and modules using cutting edge reactive technologies and client-side validation tool using Angular JS and JavaScript.  • Using Angular JS created custom directives for data manipulations and to display data in company standard format in UI.  • Implemented Multithreading module and complex networking operations like race route, SMTP mail server and web server Using Python.  • Wrote ANSIBLE Playbooks with Python, SSH as the Wrapper to Manage Configurations of AWS Nodes and Test Playbooks on AWS instances using Python also run Ansible Scripts to provision Dev servers.  • Designed RESTful Webservices using FLASK, with emphasis on improved Security for the service using FLASK-HTTP AUTH with HTTPS.  • Extracted, transformed and loaded data from various heterogeneous data sources and destinations like Access, Excel, CSV, Oracle, flat files using connectors, tasks and transformations provided by SSIS.  • Automated RabbitMQ cluster installations and configuration using Python/Bash and created Terraform scripts for EC2 instances, Elastic Load balancers and S3 buckets.  • Installed and configured configuration tool such as Chef Server/workstation and nodes via CLI tools to AWS nodes.  • Used Jenkins to deploy web services and run unit tests, REST API test and developed scripts to migrate data from proprietary database to PostgreSQL.  • Performed Unit testing, Integration Testing, GUI testing using Pytest and web application testing using Selenium Python bindings.  • Implemented Terraform to manage the AWS infrastructure and managed servers using configuration management tools like Chef and Ansible  • Developed various Python scripts to find vulnerabilities with SQL Queries by doing SQL injection, permission checks and performance analysis.  • Involved in area related to Chef for Cloud Automation. Automated the cloud deployments using chef, Python (boot & fabric) and AWS Cloud Formation Templates  • Developed web-based application using Django framework with python concepts.  • Built database Model, Views and API's using Python for interactive web- based solutions.  • Placed data into JSON files using Python to test Django websites and used Python scripts to update the content in database and manipulate files.  • Used Django API's to access the database and generated Python Django forms to maintain the record of online users. Software Developer BNY MELLON - Pune, Maharashtra May 2014 to September 2016 Responsibilities:  • Utilized Python libraries wxPython, numPY, Twisted and matplotlib and Designed JQuery libraries for all client-side JavaScript manipulations.  • Worked on Element Tree XML API in python to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Managed worldwide data in Omniture for data collection and analysis and worked on the library like pandas, NumPy, SciPy, Docker.  • Used Go Lang to create backend servers. Developed Micro services using Go language and developed corresponding test cases.  • Instituted configuration and systems management via Ansible; inventoried and standardized system configurations and package installations; trained other team members in the use of Git and Ansible.  • Implemented SQLAlchemy which is a python library for complete access over SQL.  • Used Amazon Elastic Beanstalk with Amazon EC2 to deploy project into AWS.  • Wrote with object-oriented Python, AWS, Flask, SQL, Beautiful Soup, httplib2, Jinja2, HTML/CSS, Bootstrap, jQuery, Linux, Sublime Text, GIT.  • Worked on Python OpenStack APIs and used Numpy for Numerical analysis.  • Involved in application of various learning algorithms and statistical modeling like decision trees, text analytics, natural language processing (NLP), supervised and unsupervised, regression models, social network analysis, neural networks, deep learning, SVM, clustering to identify Volume using scikit-learn package in python, Mat-lab.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Developed various AngularJS directives to help build the functionality and UI behavior using JavaScript with extensive knowledge of and use of Angular JS directives to bring additional functionality to HTML.  • Implemented business logic using Python Web frame work Django and designed applications implementing MVC architecture in Pyramid, Zope frame works.  • Installed, configured and managed the ELK (Elastic Search, Log Facilitated Scrum ceremonies like Sprint planning, retrospectives, Daily stand-ups, etc. Stash and Kibana) for Log management within EC2/ Elastic Load Balancer (ELB) for Elastic search.  • Involved in Continuous Integration (CI) and Continuous Delivery (CD) process implementation using Jenkins along with Shell script.  • Worked in team of developers to build and deploy Flask, Linux, and AWS.  • Executed Terraform to manage the AWS infrastructure and managed servers using configuration management tools like Chef and Anisole.  • Designed datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL, queried MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package to retrieve information.  • Built various graphs for business decision making using Python matplotlib library.  • Used Python library NumPy Beautiful Soup for web-scraping and used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Utilized Python libraries like NumPy and matplotlib for generating graphical reports and developed server-based web traffic statistical analysis tool using Flask, Pandas.  • Worked on the development of SQL and stored procedures for normalization and denormalization in MYSQL.  • Involved in Container management using Docker by writing Docker files and set up the automated build on Docker HUB and installing and configuring Kubernetes.  • Designed and implemented open source AI frameworks - Pytorch, TensorFlow, Scikit-learn, Apache Open Source (Kafka, Storm, Spark) for NLP and ML Algorithms.  • Implemented the application in LINUX environment and comfortable with all its commands. Education Master's in electrical engineering California State University Los Angeles 2019 Skills AWS (4 years), DJANGO (4 years), MYSQL (4 years), PYTHON (4 years), SQL (4 years) Additional Information Professional Skills:    • Programming Languages: Python .C/C++, Core Java, Shell Scripting, Scala.  • Python Technologies: Django, Flask, Tornado, Beautiful Soup, httplib2, Jinja2, NumPy, Pandas, Matplotlib, Pickle, PySide, SciPy.  • Application/Web Server: Oracle WebLogic, HTML, DHTML, AngularJS, Tomcat, Apache, JCSS, Maven, Django, NumPy, ASP.Net, Kubernetes.  • Development Tools: AWS, Docker, Selenium, Sublime Text, Eclipse, Jenkins, Coverity.  • Databases: Microsoft SQL Server, Oracle, MySQL, PostgreSQL and NoSQL databases MongoDB, Cassandra.  • Testing Tools: Selenium and Jira    • Methodologies: Agile (Scrum), Waterfall.