Sr. Software Engineer / Technical Lead Sr. <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer / Technical Lead Sr. Software Engineer / Technical Lead - Cenium North America Atlanta, GA Hands-on experience with all stages of software development, implementation, and system integration. Built solutions for Small Businesses and Enterprises. I Enjoy solving problems and building high-level business solutions. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Software Engineer / Technical Lead Cenium North America January 2019 to Present • Applications development in an enterprise architecture environment.  • Integrating with existing customer systems using Cenium Integration Services (CIS).  • Participate in project planning sessions to analyze the requirements and outline the proposed solution.  • Prepare and develop high-level solutions to meet business requirements.  • Collaborate with Project Management in the execution of implementation tasks.  • Build and maintain effective working relationships with business partners and third-party vendors. Sr. Software Engineer Beavex, Inc January 2018 to January 2019 • Developed a transportation focused control tower that provides analytical and operational capabilities, and real-time logistics intelligence resources, like route status, delivery exceptions, vehicle GPS coordinates, traffic and weather conditions.  • Integrated with Transportation Management systems, suppliers and other partners.  • Managed CI/CD pipelines using TeamCity. Full Stack Software Developer Resort Hospitality Solutions November 2015 to January 2018 • Developed hospitality focused web applications, internal systems, custom Content Management Solutions, and RESTful APIs in an Agile environment.  • Designed UI mock-ups, test cases, and created functional specification documents.  • Used Hangfire to perform background processing.  • Maintained and upgraded legacy applications written in PHP and other technologies. Full Stack Software Developer iNet Web Systems December 2013 to November 2015 • Developed web applications, RESTful APIs, and analytics dashboards.  • Developed native android applications using android studio, and cross-platform mobile applications using PhoneGap and front-end technologies.  • Utilized Multithreading Architecture to develop social media management and marketing applications. Such applications helped business owners manage their online presence, perform market analysis and enhance their marketing strategy.  • Developed a License Management System to issue Individual and White-Label software licenses, as well as manage license upgrades and downgrades.  • Developed payment gateways integration services to process payments & refunds. Full Stack Software Developer - Independent Contractor January 2011 to December 2013 • Developed applications and MVPs for small businesses in many forms.  • Developed a non-profit social platform that connects NGOs, donors, volunteers and people with disabilities in one platform.  • Developed an award-winning voice-activated assistant that helped people with physical disabilities to use the social platform and interact with other users. Education Bachelor's in Computer Science El Shorouk Academy Skills Microservices, Multithreading, Multi-Layer, n-tier, P2P, MVC, Service-oriented, Event-driven, Message Queue, .NET, .NET Core, C#, Asp.Net, Asp.Net MVC, Asp.Net Core, Asp.Net Web Forms, Asp.Net Web API, PHP, SQL, MSSQL, MySQL, NoSQL, SQLite, MongoDB, LINQ, PostgreSQL, SSRS, Redis, Entity Framework, Entity Framework Core, HTML 5, CSS3, Javascript, JQuery, Bootstrap, SVN, TFS, Git, Azure, AWS, ERP, CMS, PMS, POS, Visual Studio, Android Studio, TeamCity, Continuous Integration, Continuous Delivery, CI/CD, Agile