Sr. Java Developer Sr. Java <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Developer - Insurance Auto Auctions Seattle, WA • 9+ years of experience in Design & Development of Enterprise Applications, Web Applications, and Web Services in Java/J2EE and related technologies.  • Extensive working experience with in Design, Development, and Implementation in the field of Web Applications development using HTML, CSS, XHTML, JavaScript, JQuery, Angular JS, Bootstrap, AJAX, XML, JWT, JavaScript, JSON, Restful web services and Responsive web designing.  • Expertise in using HTML, CSS, XML, XSL, XSLT, JAXP, JAXB, Angular 2, JAVASCRIPT, JQUERY, JSON, SQL Profiler, MySQL, JSTL, Backbone JS, TestNG, PHP, Express JS, YUI (yahoo UI) Ext JS, IntelliJ, Sonacube, ReactJS, Node JS and AJAX meeting W3C standards.  • Expertise in Core Java concepts - Collection Framework, Exception Handling, IO, Serialization, Multi-threading, JMeter, Postman, Concurrency etc.  • Experience in working on various Frameworks like spring, Struts, Thymeleaf, JSF, EJB and ORM Technologies like Hibernate, and IBatis, which implements JPA.  • Good knowledge of Spring Modules, spring batch, Spring Securities, spring boot, spring MVC and spring's integration with Hibernate and Struts technologies.  • Experience in Service Oriented Architecture (SOA), Web Services design development and deployment using WSDL, REST, UDDI, JAXP, JAXB, SAX, DOM, XSLT, Apache AXIS, SOAP Web Services.  • Experience in deploying, configuring and administering application servers such as IBMWebSphere, WebLogic, JBoss Wildfly, JAX-WS, Glassfish and Apache Tomcat.  • Expertise in implementing Design Patterns like Singleton, Controller, MVC (Model View Controller), Session Facade, Service locator, API Gateway, Load Balancer, DAO, DTO, Business Delegate, Factory and Abstract Factory, Decorator, Observer, Adapter and Strategy.  • Strong working experience on Docker, Kubernetes, ECS, Cloudwatch, SES, SQS, SNS, elasticsearch, kinesis, hadoop, data pipeline, message broker activemq, elasticbeanstalk, lambda, elasticache, codedeploy, SSO, SSL, Lamdba, NA, Maven, JSON, JIRA, Microservices,  • Worked on AWS Cloud platform and its features which includes EC2, VPC, EBS, S3, AMI, SNS, RDS, EBS, Cloud Watch, Cloud Trail, Cloud Formation AWS Config, Auto scaling, CloudFront, IAM and DynamoDB.  • Worked on the SPRING framework like SPRING IOC and SPRING DAO, JDBC Templates, JPA Toplink, Transactions, Security, AOP, MVC, EasyMock, ORM etc.  • Used persistence frameworks, Hibernate ORM, Oracle, Swagger, JPA to map POJOs to a relational database.  • Strong working experience on Hibernate Critieras. Used Hibernate Connection Pooling, HQL, Git, PL/SQL, Agile, Scrum, Hibernate Caching.  • Proficient in using Object Oriented Programming Analysis and Design (OOAD) principles, UML and Rational Rose andObject Oriented Design Patterns in building high performance applications.  • Experience in using JSP and Servlets to create web interfaces and integrating apache tools like Kafka.  • Worked on (JMS) MQ's like IBMMQ and Active MQ.  • Good knowledge with Grunt task runner and installed latest version of libraries with Bower based on running in the NodeJS environment.  • Hands on experience with various Applications servers and Web servers (IBM Web Sphere Application Server, OAUTH, WebLogic, JUnit, JBoss, and Tomcat) Work Experience Sr. Java Developer Insurance Auto Auctions September 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Used Java Swing based UI to enhance performance and support additional capacity for high-volume application.  • Worked on Java Swing & AWT to support internal Desktop CORE Application.  • Developed client-side components utilizing SOA, Java Swing framework and Spring Batch.  • Developed code in Java which creates mapping in ElasticSearch even before data is indexed.  • Developed a system of Spring Boot micro-services using Spring MVC, Spring Cloud Stream, and Spring Data.  • Developed applications with Spring using technologies Spring MVC, DAO, Batch, Heroku, Security, Integration.  • Implemented various features of Spring framework such as Dependency Injection, IOC, Spring Security, Spring AOP and Spring integration with Mongo DB.  • Developed an integrated web application using java frameworks and tools such as Spring-MVC, Maven, Spring-ORM with hibernate and Eclipse.  • Implemented all the functionality using Spring IO / Spring Boot, Thymeleaf and Hibernate.  • Worked with ORM technologies such as JPA, TopLink, Hibernate, iBatis/MyBatis and Spring JDBC.  • Used Hibernate in data access layer to access and update information in the database.  • Implemented Hibernate Critieras for Object relational model for handling server side/database objects data.  • Worked on Cross-Browser compatibility for both Javascript and CSS, and squashed bugs in several browsers and devices.  • Designed and implemented the enhanced development platform by doing POC using frameworks like Angular2 and NPM.  • Used ReactJS to build the UI components, developed filters to display different dimension of data and font size modifiers.  • Worked with services to make AJAX calls to fetch the data and injected promises to avoid call-back hell and succeeded in executing the code asynchronously.  • Designed and implemented a UI update for a server repair software tool in HTML5 and CSS3.  • Experience in using Performance Monitor, SQL Profiler and optimizing the queries, tracing long running queries and deadlocks.  • Used Spring-Hibernate integration and JPA ORM in the back end to fetch data from Oracle and MySQL databases.  • Implemented Hibernate and JPA for data storage into MySQL/Oracle Data bases.  • Worked on Database schema design for major RDBMS like Oracle and SQL Server.  • Utilized SQL, PL/SQL to write Stored Procedures, Functions, Packages and Triggers.  • Achieved SOA using web services technologies like SOAP (jax-ws), REST (jax-rs), UDD and WSDL.  • Consuming RestApis and coding with MVVM architecture and Prism standard.  • Used Promises to fetch JSON data with GET, POST, PUT, DELETE request methods for Web APIs.  • Used OAuth process which has multiple login processes for our app as we integrated the third parties.  • Developed the authentication/authorization for the application using various NPM node modules including regex, JWT Web Token etc.  • Performed application development using tools like Intellij, JUNIT, and Maven for building application.  • Performed J2EE application deployment using JBoss Wildfly application server on Windows and Linux.  • Involved in implementation of DevOps Migration projects using Java/ J2EE, git, BitBucket.  • Developed a REST API web service using Node JS and Hapi.js with swagger documentation.  • Created test coverage for the web services by using Junit and Easymock.  • Involved in implementation of Test Automation Framework build using Selenium WebDriver, TestNG.  • Developed JMX Scripts for the Orchestrator API with various TPS using Jmeter for the Performance Testing.  • Worked on improving and debugging API functions using Postman and Jasmine & Karma for testing Angular code.  • Responsible for configuring Continuous Integration Server i.e. Jenkins and SonarQube.  • Worked on agile design sprints to inform intuitive & engaging user interfaces.  • Worked with Agile Software Development environment using SCRUM and Kanban.  • Implemented AWS solutions using DynamoDB, EBS, Elastic Load Balancer, Auto scaling groups.  • Worked on development of infrastructure automation in AWS (EC2, Lambda, EBS, RDS, Dynamo, ELB, EIP etc) with AWS CloudFormation.  • Migrated an existing on-premises application to AWS. Used AWS services like EC2 and S3 for small data sets processing and storage.  • Developed API Gateway using Node.js and Used MongoDB as a Database for storing information.  • Used Nginx as load balancer to pass requests to node.js server with the cors.  • Developed Docker container based micro services using Spring Boot/Cloud and deployment on Kubernetes cluster.  • Designed and Developed ECS Business operation code using Core Java.  • Built a Full-Service Catalog System which has a full workflow using Elasticsearch, Logstash, Kibana, Kinesis, and CloudWatch.  • Maintained the user accounts (IAM), RDS, Route 53, SES and SNS services in AWS cloud.  • Integrated backend processes with SQS communication and elasticache storage.  • Generated Sqoop scripts for data ingestion into Hadoop environment.  • Designed the Machine learning data pipeline for regular monitoring and performance evaluation of the deployed ML models.  • Automated the ingestion of data from source systems into Hadoop, data pipeline, message broker activemq, and from Hadoop into Vertica.  • Work in DevOps role deploying and maintaining cloud servers on AWS Elasticbeanstalk within a VPC.  • Implemented continuous deployment system with Jenkins, AWS: CodeDeploy, Ops Works, and Packer for deployment of Java Applications.  • Implemented SSO functionality using Spring Security using an SSO URL and storing Spring Session in distributed Redis Database.  • Worked extensively on securing Server and Client Communication using SSL and TLS.  • Integrated Git/Bitbucket with JIRA to monitor the commits in Git.  • Implemented using various microservices through springboot.  • Implemented jbpm with jms and jboss MBean service to make the process asynchronous and non-blocking.  • Developed web services for the search engine using Java, Spring MVC, web service and Tomcat.  • Implemented SOLID principles, Transaction Management and Layering for n Tier Application using patterns like Repository, Facet, Unit of Work etc.  • Build features using TDD (Test driven development) and Domain driven design in DevOps environment with continuous integration, regression and deployment.  • Followed Single Responsibility design principle throughout the project.  • Applied industry proven J2EE and Gang of Four design patterns such as Decorator, Strategy, Factory,  • Developed end-to-end composite RESTful Web Services by using SOA with CXF framework.  • Used Cucumber and Selenium for Behavioral and Integration testing respectively.  • Used Node.js as a proxy to interact with Rest services and interacting with Database.  • Applied design patterns including MVC Pattern, Façade Pattern, Abstract Factory Pattern, DAO Pattern and Singleton.  • Involved in requirement gatherings and prototype development.    Environment: Java, Spring boot, Spring Modules (DAO, MVC, Securities, AOP, ORM data), Thymeleaf, JPA Toplink, Hibernate, Hibernate Critieras, JavaScript, Angular 2, ReactJS, AJAX, HTML/CSS, MySQL, Oracle, SQL, PL/SQL, SQL Profiler, SOA, Rest, JSON, OAUTH, JWT, IntelliJ, JBoss Wildfly, Git, Swagger, JUnit, EasyMock, TestNG, JMeter, Postman, Sonacube, Agile, Scrum, AWS, EC2, S3, RDS, API Gateway, Load Balancer, auto scaling, DynamoDB, Docker, Kubernetes, ECS, Cloudwatch, SES, SQS, SNS, elasticsearch, kinesis, hadoop, data pipeline, message broker activemq, elasticbeanstalk, lambda, elasticache, codedeploy, SSO, SSL, Lamdba, NA, Maven, JSON, JIRA, Microservices, JMS, activemq, Tomcat, Linux / unix / Mac, solid principles, domain driven design, single responsibility design, gang of four, composite, beahvioural, proxy, abstract, prototype, singleton, factory. Sr. Java Developer Ford Motors September 2016 to August 2017 Responsibilities:    • Worked with Enterprise java beans (Session beans, Entity beans, Message driven beans)  • Developed GUIs using Eclipse RCP/SWT and Core Java Design patterns.  • Created Java based scripts for Selenium RC with JUnit/TestNG as automation frame work.  • Developed web application based on J2EE Struts framework, Implemented Java and J2EE Design patterns like Business Delegate.  • Developed applications with Spring using technologies Spring MVC, DAO, Boot, Batch, Heroku, Security, Integration.  • Used spring for dependency injection and integrated spring with Hibernate ORM framework.  • Used IBatis extensively to allow object-to-relational persistence framework.  • Implemented a Javascript front end for a Purchase Order processing applications built using Angular JS.  • Created and optimized graphic prototype websites and applications interfaces using HTML and CSS.  • Worked on databases like Oracle and IBM DB2, MySQL, Postgres.  • Worked with Database Administration support and troubleshooting, including install PostgreSQL software, patches and upgrades; manage and monitor Tablespaces.  • Built a RESTful API to save and retrieve agent information in Java using Struts MVC, Apache CXF and JAXRS.  • Development of custom modules using AJAX, Javascript, Jquery, JSON.  • Used OAuth for single-sign on authentication across the application.  • Used Eclipse IDE for Java and XML development and QA and branched projects using Tortoise SVN.  • Involved in performance tuning of WebSphere Application server and Portal Server, WCM servers for optimal performance based on external user load.  • Managed source repository using Git, Bitbucket and SVN for version control tools.  • Developed Test Driven Development (TDD), pair programming and continuous integration using JUnit, JBehave and Jenkins.  • Executed automated test scripts using Load Runner, Jmeter to test the performance for API Testing.  • Developed and deployed Enterprise Web Services and consumed and generated client using jersey, debugging with SoapUI, POSTMAN.  • Utilized Sonarqube to ensure submitted code was clean and followed Java standards.  • Developed Junit test cases for unit testing and Mockito for mocking.  • Worked extensively in Agile Development process and SCRUM techniques.  • Deployed cloud stacks using AWS CloudFormation, Optimized volumes and EC2 instances & created multi AZ VPC instances.  • Create and develop an End to End Data Ingestion pipeline by ingesting sql server raw data into S3 and processed the data using the Spark Programing.  • Created an AWS RDS Aurora DB cluster and connected to the database through an Amazon RDS AuroraDBinstance using the AmazonRDSConsole.  • Configured and managed Nginx on Google Cloud Platform compute engines and TCP Load Balancer for fault tolerance.  • Worked on Autoscaling, Cloudwatch (monitoring), AWS Elastic Beanstalk (app deployments), Amazon S3 (storage) and Amazon EBS (persistent disk storage)  • Worked on various AWS features like EC2, RDS and SES.  • Designed and deploying a multitude applications utilizing almost all of the AWS stack (Including RDS, Dynamo DB, SNS, SQS, IAM) focusing on high-availability, fault tolerance, and auto-scaling in AWS Cloud formation.  • Developed code in Java which creates mapping in ElasticSearch even before data is indexed into.  • Stored the data in an Apache Cassandra Cluster Used Impala to query the Hadoop data stored in HDFS.  • Installed and configure HAproxy as a load balancer for eGate financial interfaces that needs to talk with Edifecs message broker (ActiveMQ)  • Developed OSGI bundles and sling Services using Maven in Eclipse.  • Worked on development of approach through tools like Jira sprints, backlog, and tasks as well as Bitbucket.  • Responsible for implementation of java integration components for BPM.  • Worked on using Rule Engines, Drools, ILOG with corresponding to validate the business User Roles as Rules.  • Implemented SOA architecture with web services using SOAP, WSDL, UDDI and XML.  • Developed various J2EE components like Servlets, JSP, AJAX, JAXP, JNDI, JMS, and MQ Series by using RAD.  • Designed and developed web-based applications using different Web and application servers such as Apache Tomcat, NodeJS, and IIS.  • Implemented a Continuous Delivery framework using Jenkins and Puppet in Linux environment.    Environment: Java, Spring Modules (DAO, MVC, ORM), Ibatis, JavaScript, HTML/CSS, Postgres, PostgreSQL, Restful API, JSON, OAUTH, XML, Eclipse, websphere, Git, SVN, JUnit, Mockito, JMeter, Postman, Socube, Agile, Scrum, AWS, EC2, S3, RDS, Load Balancer, auto scaling, DymoDB, Cloudwatch, SES, SQS, SNS, elasticsearch, message broker activemq, , Maven, JSON, JIRA, BPM, iLog, SOA, JMS, activemq, , Tomcat, Linux / unix/ Mac. Java Developer Bridge point Education, Inc January 2014 to August 2016 Responsibilities:  • Implemented business rules in Java technology and performed data driven testing using JUnit  • Create and Enhance J2EE Web Application using Java and Windows Server utilizing the Agile development process.  • Worked with J2EE and J2SE technologies including JSP, Java Web Start, and Weblogic.  • Architect and configured the Java beans using Struts MVC and Hibernate.  • Created DAO layer and used JDBC to connect to Oracle as well as MSSQL database, in back end application.  • Design and developed the REST based Microservices using the Spring Boot, Spring Data with JPA.  • Implemented Java based POJO access to the application's Oracle database using myBatis mappers and typical data access and transfer design patterns.  • Worked on JavaBeans with dependency injection to implement JSF framework.  • Used JavaScript to make dropdown menus on web pages and displayed part of a web page upon user request.  • Created various web page layouts using HTML and CSS.  • Extensively worked with application programming on COBOL, DB2 and CICS.  • Extensively used ETL and Informatica to load data from Oracle, MS SQL into the target Oracle database.  • Used JSP's HTML on frontend, Servlets as Front Controllers and Java script for client side validations.  • Used Angular Services for consuming REST API and SOAP web services using Asynchronous callbacks and Http/ AJAX libraries.  • Involved in creating Data models by using/writing items.xml and Initialization/Updating the Hybris B2B System.  • Built a RESTful API to save and retrieve agent information in Java using Struts MVC, Apache CXF and JAXRS.  • Used Eclipse IDE for Java and XML development and QA and branched projects using Tortoise SVN.  • Involved in Performance tuning of WebLogic/Jboss/Tomcat servers with respect to heap, threads and connection pools.  • Used SVN for version Control, Fisheye and Crucible for peer code review.  • Tested the developed modules using Junit and Jbehave before giving them to QA team.  • Experience in Load testing frame work like Jmeter for testing the exposed web services.  • Used SoapUI and Postman to test web service response and also created mockup service.  • Incorporated agile methodology to manage requirements and enhance the application.  • Implemented AWS solutions using EC2, S3, EBS, Elastic Load Balancer, Auto scaling groups.  • Worked in AWS Cloud platform and its features which include EC2, RDS, DynamoDB, Cloud Trail, and CloudFormation.  • Worked closely with Devops team to set up CI/CD pipeline using Jenkins, Ansible, AWS, Maven and GIT.  • Developed ANT scripts to build and deploy the application in the JBOSS Application Server.  • Wrote Angular JS Services to consume RESTful API's, SOAP web services and processing JSON data.  • Designed and developed used XSLT transformation components to convert data from XML to HTML.  • Worked on JIRA development with JAVA and Groovy scripting.  • Led IBM Websphere ILOG JRules implementation for strategic, new product development, ongoing maintenance initiatives and enhancements.  • Developed RESTful web services in Mule ESB based on SOA architecture.  • Prepared J2EE application deployment using JBoss application server on Windows and Linux.  Environment: Java, Spring, Mybatis, Struts, JSF, JavaScript, HTML/CSS, Db2, MS SQL, Rest, XML, Apache CXF, Eclipse, weblogic, SVN, JUnit, JMeter, Postman, Agile, AWS, EC2, S3, RDS, JSP, Servlets, Maven, ANT, JSON/ XML, JIRA, jRules, SOA, Tomcat, Linux / unix/ Mac. Java Developer HealthSouth January 2013 to December 2014 Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed UI Screens using Java Server Pages, Html, CSS and JavaScript, bootstrap.  • Developed user interface using Java Server Pages (JSP), HTML and Java Script, Angular JS for the Presentation layer.  • Used Java Message Service (JMS) for reliable and asynchronous exchange of important information  • Used SQL Queries in Java code to do select/update/delete depending upon the business requirement.  • Developed the application using Spring MVC to provide Model and View, and URL based responses to different HTTP requests along with Implementation of caching Algorithms used for Data Analytics.  • Design and developed applications using Core Java, JSP, Servlets, Spring, Struts.  • Designed and developed the queries using JDBC and Java Servlets for various search options.  • Developed administrative interfaces with the technologies of JSP, JSF, Ember.js, backbone.js AJAX, JavaScript.  • Developed web presentation layer using HTML and CSS according to internal standards and guidelines.  • Responsible for designing and managing the Sqoop jobs that uploaded the data from Oracle to HDFS and Hive.  • Developed SOAP and HTTP Rest Web Services both in WMB and IBM Datapower.  • Implemented workflow system in a SOA environment, through web services built using Axis2 for SOAP over HTTP and SMTP.  • Using IDE's like Eclipse, Netbeans and version control tools like Mercurial, SVN, and Git.  • Customizing the design and development of Themes and Skins of WebSphere portal according to the client's requirement.  • Added the ability to include Radiology reports in CCDA outbound process utilizing Java, DB2, XML, Maven, CVS.  • Developed Agile processes using Groovy, JUnit to use continuous integration.  • Involved in Regression testing, Smoke Testing by following Agile-Scrum, Kanban and Waterfall software development.  • Created AWS EC2 Linux instances and BASH scripts to run post processing. Used Jenkins to run the deployment process.  • Processed the data using the Spark programming and store in S3 bucket, Redshift.  • Worked on development of infrastructure automation in AWS (EC2, RDS) with AWS CloudFormation.  • Developed an ant script to compile and deploy a DRL file to JBOSS Rules Engine (Drools)  • Designed the web user interfaces for all the above use cases using JSP, Struts, HTML5, jQuery, XML and Ajax.  • Developed Web Services using SOA, WSDL and JAX-RPC programming models.  • Worked with GIT version control, vagrant environment using node.js, Gulp for compiling, and the JIRA ticketing system.  • Worked on application Servers like Apache Tomcat, IBM Web Sphere, Microsoft IIS server etc.    Environments: Java, Spring, Struts, JDBC, Struts, JSF, JavaScript, HTML/CSS, Oracle, SOAP, Rest, Axis2, NetBeans, websphere, CVS, JUnit, Waterfall, AWS, EC2, S3, RDS, JSP, Servlets, Ant, XML, WSDL, JIRA, Tomcat, Linux / unix. Sr. Software Engineer Connecture Inc May 2012 to December 2013 Responsibilities:  • Used the light weight container of the SpringMVC Frame work to provide architectural flexibility for inversion of controller (IOC)  • Involved in the complete Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) phases such as Requirement Analysis, Design and Implementation of the project.  • Used Spring Framework for dependency injection.  • Implemented and deployed several EJB (Session and Entity)  • The front end of the project is designed on MVC architecture using struts, Tiles frameworks.  • Involved in Configuring tiles-def.xml, web.xml and struts-config.xml according to the strut framework.  • Used LOG4J for error logging at the development box and used ANT for building the deployable EAR/WAR components.  • Used WebSphere Application Server for deploying various components of application.  • EJB's were running under the hood of WebSphere container/server.  • Implemented Back office loan services and web applications using Session Façade, Service Locator, Data Access Objects, Business Delegate, MVC, Front Controller and Data Transfer Object design patterns.  • Created DB2 SQL Procedures, Functions & Stored Procedures, Nested Tables, Cursors, DB2 Packages, Reports &SQL Functions for Reports.  • Worked with VSS Version control in order to create virtual library of computer files.    Environments: Java, JSP, Servlets, EJB, Struts, spring, Html, XML, CSS, Log4j, Ant, Web services, RAD, IBM WebSphere server, IBM DB2, VSS. Software Engineer Qwest Telecommunications July 2010 to April 2012 Responsibilities  • Analyzed the requirements and enhanced the application which improved maintainability, extensibility and performance.  • Interacting with business analysts, developers, testers and other stakeholders to develop and support web application.  • Creating Low-level and High-level designs based on IT requirements.  • Involved in database design, creating entity relationship diagrams, SQL queries, developing stored procedures.  • Developed Web pages with HTML, Java Script and CSS.  • Utilized Java/J2EE, Web services for developing different components.  • Developed and consumed SOAP, Tibco bus services to interface with external applications.  • Created unit tests using JUnit frame works and performed unit testing.  • Provided support during QA, UAT testing and Production deployments.  • Worked on Production Incident and Problem tickets, resolved them as per SLA.  • Have done troubleshooting of production issues and provided code fixes.  • Performed code reviews to ensure coding standards followed during development    Environments: JAVA, JSP, SERVLETS, EJB, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, AJAX, LOG4J, XML, DOM, EDITPLUS, MULE, JBOSS. Education Masters in Computer Science and Engineering Wayne State University