SENIOR ARCHITECT / APPLICATION DEVELOPER SENIOR ARCHITECT / APPLICATION <span class="hl">DEVELOPER</span> Software Development Manager New York, NY Software Development Manager  Versatile technical manager with over ten years’ success leading software innovation for public; private organizations  Repeated success leading fast-paced initiatives and guiding projects from conception and strategy development to pre- and post-deployment. Adept at analyzing data and improving efficiency, scalability, and stability of business-critical applications. Talent for leading cross-functional teams, hiring and mentoring new talent, and establishing high-performing agile cultures. Skilled manager, negotiator, and businessperson; able to forge solid relationships with strategic partners and build consensus across multiple organizational levels.  Highlights of Expertise  • High-volume Product Development  • Scalable Platforms  • System Design & Architecture   • Software Development Life Cycle   • Continuous Integrations   • Staff Recruitment and Onboarding  • Vendor Contract Negotiations  • Ticketing Resource Systems  • Web Design & Development  • Project Budget Forecasting Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience SENIOR ARCHITECT / APPLICATION DEVELOPER Department of Sanitation New York City - New York, NY August 2017 to October 2018 Extend high-level architecting, installation, troubleshooting, and management expertise during deployment of $30M OpenStack Nova mobile ticketing system. Hire and train new staff and oversee all phases of the project life cycle.     Held overall accountability for project deliverable performing code reviews, delegating tasks, coordinating development efforts, gathering requirements, and issuing post-deployment support.   ·     Optimized operations for $30M a year NOVAS project replacing original ticketing system enabling ticket submission for all of New York City with dramatic productivity improvements and cost savings.  ·     Deliver hands-on leadership with 50/50 management and coding responsibilities; effectively delegate code reviews, work assignments, and deployment processes to ensuring on time project delivery.  ·     Increased public awareness and acceptance liaising directly with the Sherriff’s Department, Department of Finance, as well as various outside vendors.  ·     Minimized defects tracking all change requests and bugs in JIRA from start to finish verifying resolutions and closing out tickets decreasing average number of open tickets by 60%. Systems Architect Weill Cornell Medical College - New York, NY May 2015 to August 2017 Supervised team consisting of developers, a tester, a business analyst, and a project manager. Spearheaded efforts to streamline operations with complex data analysis, manipulation, and conversion for research purposes. Infused agile project management methodologies into team performance.     Reviewed research and software development efforts creating variables, analyzing trends and frequencies, and writing stored procedures and services to continuously populate the data. Revamped data generation, cleanup, and aggregation methods as well as data-side information modeling practices.  ·     Designed and added applications helping reconciliation efforts leading to massive $165K per day savings: $4.5 annually.  ·     Produced application that streamlined reconciliation of CompuRecord to Epic billing with additional $1.7M in annual cost reductions.  ·     Reduced lost revenues designing application to reconcile lost cases recovering $30K - $100K monthly totaling $360K - $1.2M annually.  ·     Contributed to $450K research grant acquisition. SENIOR C# DEVELOPER / TEAM LEAD HazelTree, New York, New York - New York, NY July 2013 to June 2014 Recruited to build development team talent and improve project planning and software design operations. Mentored junior and entry-level developers through each phase of the software development life cycle.    Owned business-critical product line shepherding development from user stories to deployed code. Accounted for all code changes with in-depth research and design expertise using MVC 2, HTML, DevExpress, C#, SQL 2008, LINQ, JavaScript, jQuery, and Multithreaded Windows services.  ·     Maximized new-hire productivity with strong mentoring and coaching on how to design and normalize databases, write stored procedures, triggers, cursors, and views, thus improving the conversion of user requirements into deployable applications.  ·     Improved team cohesiveness and collaboration introducing daily Scrums, Sprints, artifacts, and creating a test-driven development culture.  SENIOR C# DEVELOPER / TEAM LEAD CitiStorage, Inc. - Brooklyn, NY June 2011 to January 2013 Hired to modernize operations with innovative technology solutions. Headed change initiatives leading over 5 employees and external consultants.     Researched, designed, and deployed new Corporate portal application using Silverlight, WPF, XAML, MVVM, WCF, SQL 2008, LINQ, and VS 2012 incorporating databases, tables, views, and stored procedures.  ·     Reduced inventory / delivery pull time delivering estimated $2M annual cost savings.  ·     Minimized delivery time creating a real-time Order Tracking System allowing for a more proactive approach to customer service.  ·     Increased order completion rates from 40% to 97% in under five months by establishing an employee performance tracker allowing swifter problem interventions. SOFTWARE DEVELOPER Door 3 Corp - New York, NY 2012 to 2012 Led five-person team on all SharePoint programming and deployment efforts streamlining portal operations and integrating three separate systems. Contributed to requirement gathering, planning, coding, testing, deployment, debugging, and all post-deployment support.       Brought to the table strong SQL, data normalization, stored procedures, and agile expertise. Immersed into software development troubleshooting data connectivity issues and developing N-tear applications using C#, ASP.Net 2.0, ADO.Net 2.0/3.5, LINQ, Crystal Reports 11, and SQL 2000 and 2005.    ·     Generated 60x faster and more accurate search engine that was visible to entire organization positively impacting productivity and saving countless hours previously lost due to inefficiencies.  ·     Eliminated ambiguity of loan categories and improved data retrieval reengineering the Black Board system and creating single-click access to loan information. APPLICATIONS DEVELOPER Goldman Sachs, Inc - New York, NY January 2006 to October 2006 Contracted to restore databases and program scripts evolving into complex end-to-end process resolution.    Coordinated synchronization process restoring over 400 GB of data. Education Master of Science in Applied Database Technologies New York University - New York, NY 2010 Bachelor of Arts in Computer Science in English Pace University - New York, NY 2000 Skills SQL (10+ years), STORED PROCEDURES (10+ years), ASP (10+ years), ASP.NET (10+ years), C# (10+ years), Team Leader (6 years), Team Management (6 years), Team Development (5 years), Architecture (6 years), Javascript (10+ years), JQuery (8 years), XML (5 years), JIRA (2 years), Scrum (6 years), Agile (7 years), C, Software Development, NET, Computer Science, MVC, Big Data, Big Data Additional Information Technical Proficiencies   Languages:  C#, WPF, MVC 2 and 5, Bootstrap, Silverlight, ASP.Net 2.0/3.0/4.0/4.5, MVVM, TSQL, HTML, AJAX, SharePoint, NUnit, ReSharper, SSIS, SSRS, XAML, LINQ, XML, Multithreaded Windows Services, Web Services  Databases:  Microsoft SQL Server 2005/2008/2012/2016, MYSQL, Stored Procedures, Views  Software:  Visual Studio .Net 2005/2010/2012/2013/2015, Crystal Reports 11, VMWare Server, Microsoft Virtual Machine, VSS, SharePoint Server 2003, TFS, Surround SCM, TestTrack  Agile:  Daily Scrum, Scrum Roles, Scrum Artifacts, User Stories, Test Driven Development, Refactoring, Sprints