Full Stack Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Developer - Advannova Inc Georgetown, TX Experienced Software Development Engineer with 10+ years working in the analysis, architecture, implementation, and  testing of several applications. Work Experience Full Stack Developer Advannova Inc - Round Rock, TX March 2016 to Present Leading the development of the cloud infrastructure supporting the integration with in-house POS system.  ? Developed a microservice architecture supporting the Limitless Petro  integrated with the mobile APP and the payment gateway using Spring Boot, JHipster, Angular 5, NodeJS, MongoDB and Elasticsearch.  ? Developed two mobile apps for Limitless POS and Limitless Petro  ? Migrated several apps towards the cloud.  ? Principal developer of five E-Commerce websites integrated with NCR  Counterpoint Point of Sale (POS).  ? Big Data and Business Intelligent (Payment processing database)  ? Developed scalable, distributed Big Data architectures for several projects.    Keywords: POS, software development, microservices, cloud computing, AWS, NodeJS, MongoDB, Angular 2.X, Java, Spring Framework, Spring Boot, JHipster, big data Software Developer Manufacturing Inc - Fort Lauderdale, FL July 2016 to March 2019 Fort Lauderdale, Florida  07/2016 - 03/2019  ? Software Developer of the 3D Laser Gifts Magento Ecommerce, BI Data  analyst (Suite Pentaho BI), AWS, database, and server administrator(Centos).  Keywords: Magento, BI, AWS, database, server administration Architect, DB designer, and developer Solution R Us Inc - Houston, TX December 2016 to May 2017 of the following products:  ? LaborTrack - Labor tracking tool to store the elapsed time of production  workers, real-time task monitoring, reporting tool integrated with MISys  software.  ? Jobman - Manufacturing software that includes modules for planning, monitoring, purchasing, receiving, accounting, security and reporting on the  manufacturing process.  ? Customers: Mirror Industries, HM Platting Industries, Champion Hi-Tech Senior Software Developer Bayteq Cia Ltda - Quito, EC December 2014 to April 2016 Collaborated in the in-house development of new banking software  interfaces.  ? Implemented several portlets and applications using Liferay and J2EE  technologies with Oracle database for the Ministry of Energy of Ecuador.  Keywords: Java, software development, J2EE, mobile development Architect, DB designer, and applications developer National Cuban Electronics Group for Tourism - Habana, CU September 2013 to November 2014 Habana, Cuba  09/2013 - 11/2014 Architect, DB designer, and applications developer:  ? Web-based applications such as E-commerce, Booking, Human Resources, CRM.  ? Architect of several websites and applications of the Ministry of Tourism of Cuba, including the Cuban Travel Network.  ? Lead applications engineer of a division of 25 members.  Keywords: Teamwork, software developer, tourism Developer member Data Access Technology Center - Habana, CU September 2010 to August 2013 of the "Cuban Electoral Process System - SIGEL", front  end, backend, test, database, version control. This is the actual system for managing the electoral process in Cuba with more than 400 use cases.  ? Developer and Database designer of a dynamic survey system. Student University of Informatics Science - Habana, CU September 2009 to August 2010 Habana, Cuba  Assistant Professor ? Member of the Bioinformatics Department, working as a software developer  09/2009 - 08/2010 since 2006 (Student).  ? Assistant Professor of programming languages  ? Software Architect - Developed two products: alasEPIGEN and alasMedigen  used to simulate and classification of gene sequencing for The Center of Genetic Engineering and Biotechnology of Cuba.  Keywords: assistant professor, software developer, bioinformatics Education Bachelor Degree in Computer in Computer University of Informatics Science - Habana, CU September 2014 to July 2019 Skills Mysql, Oracle, Postgresql, Sql, Ejb, Angular, Java, Jquery, Nodejs, Javascript, Node, J2EE, PHP, MongoDB, AWS Additional Information SKILLS    Programming languages Java, PHP, Javascript, NodeJS, C++, Python, Shell    Framework and technologies Spring Framework, Liferay, JHipster, Angular 2.x, Symfony2, Symfony1, Zend  Framework, Magento 1 and 2, Lavarel, Codeigniter, CakePHP, JQuery, J2EE, RMI, JPA,  JSP, JMX, EJB, JSF, Maven, Django, Bootstrap, Foundation, Ionic Framework    ORMs Hibernate, Doctrine, Propel    Web Technologies Rest, Web Sockets, HTML5, CSS, SOAP, Swagger    Application Server IBM Websphere, JBoss, Tomcat, Apache 2, Nginx    Data Modelling JSON, RDF, RDFS, OWL, N3, XML, XSLT    Data Management MySQL, MongoDB, Redis, Memcached, DynamoDB, Oracle, SQL Server, PostgreSQL,  OrientDb, CouchDb, Neo4j    Big Data / Cloud Hadoop, Spark, Kafka, AWS, Elasticsearch    CVS GIT, Subversion, Mercurial    Continuous Integration Jenkins, GitLab CI, Buddy    Personal Motivated, productive, passioned, lead responsibility, teamwork, analytical, adaptable