Application Developer II, Enterprise Software Engineering Application <span class="hl">Developer</span> II, Enterprise <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineering Application Developer II, Enterprise Software Engineering - ESPN West Hartford, CT Work Experience Application Developer II, Enterprise Software Engineering ESPN - Bristol, CT August 2014 to Present • Created and supported multiple mission-critical systems in support of ESPN's business objectives, including software design, customer consultation, UX design, and feature planning.  • Modified existing divisional system to scale for global enterprise use by parent company (The Walt  Disney Company).  • Enhanced the front-end design and was an essential contributor to the development of a business-critical  enterprise scheduling application.  • Served as a key team member in the transformation of a legacy .NET application to a mobile, React- based framework. Designed the code base structure, data flow, and associated development standards.  • Responsible for full stack development of multiple application modules.  • Collaborated with customers on system design to ensure user acceptability and adherence to UX and design standards.  • Ensured a consistent user experience through creation of a common component library.  • Reduced legacy code debt by eliminating unnecessary code.  • Improved system efficiency by identifying and rectifying performance lag defects.  • Created new functionality, implemented performance enhancements, and addressed user-reported  defects prior to web application pivot.  • Initially worked with group as a college intern responsible for feature enhancements and defect  resolution. Business Intelligence Developer, Business Solutions Group General Motors Company - Detroit, MI January 2013 to August 2014 • Created data visualization reports that were utilized by management groups for business-critical decision support.  • Supported the company's data migration strategy by consolidating data from multiple sources to a unified location. Software Engineering Co-op Diebold Inc - North Canton, OH January 2010 to August 2011 • Gained valuable experience in a wide variety of technology skills, including software development and technical writing.  • Edited and tested technical publications written members of the OS team.    Computer Skills:  ReactJS, NodeJS, Javascript, HTML5, CSS3, Java, C++, C, C#, .NET, SQL, PL/SQL, Tableau Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science and Engineering The University of Toledo - Toledo, OH December 2012 Skills .net, C#, C++, Javascript, Reactjs, Pl/sql, Sql, Tableau, Html5, Java, CSS3, React, Node, UI, React, Front End