Application Developer Application <span class="hl">Developer</span> Fullstack Web Application Developer Pittsburgh, PA You may visit my website for an example of my capabilities:    https://onlineinklings.org     It is a fully functional web application that leverages html/css, jQuery, Ajax, Coldfusion, and sql server, if you want to check it out, sign up as a reader user for free access. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Application Developer Universal Stainless and Alloy Products - Bridgeville, PA February 2019 to Present My current position at USAP leverages my web application development skills more than any job ever before. I have converted and created many existing and new applications into node apps from design to completion. I am poised to establish a new level of technological proficiency all while learning more about the steel industry. Automation Developer Heeter Printing Company - Canonsburg, PA November 2017 to February 2019 My work at the Heeter Printing Co. offered me an opportunity to apply some C#  skills - as well as continue my learning of Angular 5, however the majority of my work was done on a node/jQuery/html/css/sql full stack web app. The app automated a time intensive and out dated process by taking control of the syncing of vastly variable client mailing list data into one format, all while removing unwanted names, countries, etc and also creating the appropriate electronic mailing paperwork. Software Developer - Full Stack emsCharts, Inc - Pittsburgh, PA August 2015 to November 2017 Leading the development of new features, enhancements to UI & UX, and refactors for the emsCharts webapp, I modified and created a modern webapp out of a bulk of old Coldfusion,  javascript, CSS, and HTML. Making use of jQuery AJAX, I was able to utilize the best aspects of Coldfusion in a lightweight way. I created, from concept to completion, new pages and page  sections with unique controls in jQuery. The strongest features include partial page refreshes via  AJAX and SQL, speed fixes through query reduction & resource handling, fully responsive pages  that make use of Bootstrap, and overall click reduction. emsCharts cultivated me into a self-sufficient developer who is very capable of guiding his own work. Computer Science Tutor Saint Vincent College - Latrobe, PA January 2013 to May 2015 As a tutor for the Computer Science department at Saint Vincent, I sharpened my programming  skills and maintained my knowledge of programming concepts. I assisted students with a range of coursework, such as labs, programming homework, and presentations. Further, I assisted my  department chair with any special jobs as simple as manual data input and as large as .NET web  apps. Software Development Intern SnapRetail Inc - Pittsburgh, PA June 2014 to December 2014 My work at SnapRetail gave me a taste of what it was to work in a team of software developers. I  attended meetings and worked on front-end of website design and development with a focus on Bootstrap and LESS. The internship gave me experience working with creative teams. I helped  complete products that were designed to the specs of individual customers as well as specs  defined in design meetings. I also got a handle on how to operate git. Saint Vincent Summer Theater Set Builder Saint Vincent College - Latrobe, PA May 2013 to August 2013 Over the Summer of 2013, I built skills in carpentry. To build a set requires hard work from a small team with a vision. The team relies on the hard work of each other team member, respect  towards a finished product, a well designed product, and respect towards the management of that product. Sound familiar? I learned the language of the trade, began with the fundamentals,  and by the end, I was allowed to make final decisions. My attention to detail, and respect for the creation of something by a team made me a very successful set builder. Education Bachelor of Science in Computing and Information Science in Computing and Information Science Saint Vincent College - Latrobe, PA 2011 to 2015 Skills Graphic Design (Less than 1 year), HTML, Javascript, SQL, JQuery, Node.js, C#, Coldfusion, SQL Server Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information SKILLS  Graphic Design (Less than 1 year)    Websites: https://onlineinklings.org