Team Lead Team Lead Team Lead - Vodafone Shared Service India Pvt. Ltd US • Over 8+ years of experience in Analysis, Design and Development of Software Applications.  • Hands on experience in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  • Extensive involvement in all stages of application development life cycle including requirements, development, implementation and support.  • Have working experience in C#, .NET, MVC, Visual Studio 2008/2012/2015, Ajax, ADO.Net, WebAPI, Angular, TypeScript.  • Implemented critical reports using reporting services SQL 2008/2012.  • Have planned and coordinated all aspects related to SDLC.  • Good experience in coordinating and working with developers and End Users in Team based environment.  • Adept in learning and using new technologies.  • Fast learner, presentation, analytical and problem-solving skills.  • Excellent Communication and Inter-personal skills, flexible and versatile to new environments, self-motivated a good team player and have worked in multicultural environment. Work Experience Team Lead Vodafone Shared Service India Pvt. Ltd September 2018 to Present Sr. Software Engineer Accenture Services Pvt. Ltd Pune July 2014 Sep-2018 Sr. Angular developer Schlumberger February 2018 to September 2018 Project Name: Schlumberger  Team Size: 10  Description:  Schlumberger Limited is the world's largest oilfield services company. Schlumberger supplies the industry's most comprehensive range of products and services, from exploration through production and integrated pore-to-pipeline solutions for hydrocarbon recovery that optimize  reservoir performance.    Responsibilities:  ? Designed and developed the application using Angular 6.0, Type Script,  ? Interacting with onshore team and Product owner  ? responsible for driving the scrum calls.  Environment:  ? Angular 6.0, Visual Studio Code V-1.2, Kendo UI, Unit Testing- Jasmine, MongoDB, VSTS, Agile Methodology, Git. Sr. Net developer AIP SWB June 2017 to February 2018 Project Name: AIP SWB  Team Size: 20  Description:  The AIP SWB is the new next generation way to solution, allowing for a more efficient and timely solution making process, while providing a lower cost of solution compared to traditional solution with Solution Architects. The Usage Analysis screen allows the user to track their AIP Solution Workbench (SWB) usage for all the estimates they create and edit.    The AIP Solution Workbench (SWB) is a self-service application that allows users to provide solution and calculate AIP cost estimates based on requirements. AIP SWB provides an interactive step-by-step guidance and recommendations to ensure users are able to receive the best AIP solution and optimized costs    Responsibilities:  ? Designed and developed the application using Asp.net , C#, Angular 2.0, WebAPI  ? Coordinated with Client  ? Participated in all status review meetings.  Environment:  ? Microsoft .Net 4.5, C#, Visual Studio 2015, Entity Framework, MySQL, GIT , Angular, Sr. Net developer SmartTrack November 2016 to June 2017 Project Name: SmartTrack  Client: Microsoft USA  Domain: -ERP  Team Size: 6  Description:  SmarTrak is an internal Microsoft tool that supports Smart Buy/GPG sourcing activities, including Request submission, tracking, assignment, and forecast request.  It is an easy-to-use service offered to all Microsoft employees. The SmartBuy team is made up of sourcing and procurement experts trained in Microsoft sourcing processes and policies. They offer a variety of strategic services to make the procurement process easier for you and help your business get the best value when purchasing goods and services from suppliers    Responsibilities:  ? Designed and developed the application using Asp.net , C#, MVC , WebAPI  ? Coordinated with Client  ? Participated in all status review meetings.  Environment:  ? Microsoft .Net 4.5, C#, Visual Studio 2013, Entity Framework, MySQL, agile, Git. Sr. Net developer IBM EHLLAPI October 2015 to November 2016 Project Name: Screen Scraper (Using IBM EHLLAPI / HLLAPI Library for interacting with mainframe based applications).  Domain: -Finance  Client: Standard Life (UK)  Team Size: 2  Description:  Screen scraping is programming that translates between legacy application programs and new user interfaces, so that the logic and data associated with the legacy programs can continue to be used.  Screen scraping techniques are used to collate data from mainframe applications to support non-mainframe applications.  Screen Scraper Objects will directly interact with the JSON-over-Web Socket API interfaces to perform requests against the modernized ex-mainframe applications.NET framework exposing the same interface signature as the IBM EHLLAPI framework receives the desired keystroke commands from the Screen Scraper Object & formulates the technical instructions / messages for the Online Architecture to then make requests of the backend migrated applications.    Responsibilities:  ? Implement IBM PCOMM library (*autECL) into C# and exposed C# library into legacy application (VB6.0) to communicate with Mainframe and Java application).  ? Done front end Coding using Asp.net MVC C#  ? Web Socket Connectivity.  ? Coordinated with Client  ? Participated in all status review meetings.  Environment:  ? Microsoft .Net 4.5, C#, Visual Studio 2013, Mainframe 6.0.1, VB 6.0, Sr. Net developer OPM Test Center September 2014 to October 2015 Project Name: Conformity Test Manager, OPM Test Center, Wholesale Testcenter (Testing Tool)  Domain: -Telecom  Client: -Vodafone Germany  Team Size: 2  Description:  Conformity Test Manager (KFT) has been conducted between the respective provider and the Deutsche Telekom. This test must be carried out and completed prior to beginning live operation and must be confirmed by a positive certificate from the central certification body. A Konformitäts test must always be executed when the respective provider wishes to use features of a new major version. (KFT) support the test of Conformity for WITA and WBCI towards the Deutsche Telekom.  The Conformity test it will be verified if all business process can be communicated between the WITA/WBCI interface from the Deutsche Telekom and the WITA/WBCI Version installed on the DTAG-WITA adapter.    Responsibilities:  ? Designed and developed the application using C#, Window form.ADO.Net, Oracle 11 g.  ? Done front end Coding using C# .net  ? Used XML Altova for XML Validation  ? Prepared Weekly Status Reports and Timesheets.  ? Coordinated with Client  ? Participated in all status review meetings.  Environment:  ? Microsoft .Net 4.5, .NET Framework, C#, Visual Studio 2013, Oracle 11g, ADO.NET, Unix, Putty Sr. Net developer Mahatma Phule Backward Class Development Corporation March 2013 to May 2014 Project Name: Mahatma Phule Backward Class Development Corporation  Team Size: 5  Description:  This software is developed for Maharashtra government's MPBCDC Department. It's website portal. Its Helps Backward Class People By providing loans (Business, Education) against the schemes in some of the schemes the corporation is also providing some SUBSIDY amount in different percentage for the beneficiary once in lifetime.  This application is meant for the day to day use for the End user (from corporation).Also, it includes the detailed entry of the each application arrives, the processing in terms of forwarding the application to the different panel of the branches like for verification, Scrutinization, Recovery after this forwarding to head offices as well as regional offices etc. we have also track the application status for each stages and also track Account Module Section like daily, monthly Expenses, Receipt Transaction at each office level.  Responsibilities:    ? Designed and developed the application using C#, web forms ADO.Net, SQL Server 2008.  ? Done front end Coding using C# .net  ? Implements Security Audit, Accessibility and W3C Validation.  ? Use Sqlserver SSRS Reporting tool for developing Report's  ? Conducted code reviews and Unit Testing.  ? Used VSS for versioning the applications  ? Prepared Weekly Status Reports and Timesheets.  ? Coordinated with Client  ? Participated in all status review meetings.  Environment:  ? Microsoft .Net 3.5, .NET Framework, C#, Visual Studio 2008, SQL Server 2008, ADO.NET, VSS Sr. Software developer Nelito System. Ltd - Mumbai, MAHARASHTRA, IN June 2012 to May 2014 Net Developer Nelito System. Ltd August 2012 to February 2013 Project Name: Drug Inventory Management System  Team Size: 5  Description:  This software is developed for Maharashtra government's public health department. It manages medicine flow from procurement to consumption. This application tracks the stock of medicines at each institution viz. There is following modules -Purchase, Receipt, Distribution, Wastage, Sampling, and Stop use.    Responsibilities:  ? Designed and developed the application using C#, web forms ADO.Net, Telrik Control, SQL Server 2008.  ? Done front end Coding using C# .net  ? Use Crystal for developing Report's  ? Implements Security Audit, Accessibility and W3C Validation.  ? Used VSS for versioning the applications  ? Prepared Weekly Status Reports and Timesheets.  ? Coordinated with Client  ? Participated in all status review meetings. Net Programmer Indian Navy. It is online administration portal September 2011 to June 2012 Project Name: OLAM  Team Size: 3  Description:  This software is developed for Indian Navy. It is online administration portal. This application tracks the Leaves, Ty-duty at each Unit viz, there are following modules like Leave Application, Temporary Duty Application, Concession form, Boardroom Booking, incoming forms, Archive user and officer reporting form. Admin panel to manage users, Application Approval route, rank, unit and designation.    Responsibilities:  ? Designed and developed the application using C#, web forms ADO.Net, Telrik Control, SQL Server 2008.  ? Done front end Coding using C# .net  ? Use Crystal for developing Report's  ? Used VSS for versioning the applications  ? Coordinated with Client  ? Participated in all status review meetings.  Environment:  Microsoft .Net 3.5, .NET Framework, C#, Visual Studio 2008, SQL Server 2008, ADO.NET, VSS Software developer General Data Pvt. Ltd - Mumbai, MAHARASHTRA, IN September 2010 to June 2012 Software Engineer Action Authority January 2010 to August 2011 Project Name: Mail Management System  Team Size: 2  Description:  MMS is an electronic mail management system to enhance the communication. It imports the Mails/Signals in the system and allocates them to its respective Action Authority(s) It captures the remarks given at every stage of action.  Officers submit the closure report online. Officers can view a summary of Pending, In-Process, Completed Actions at given point of time  Responsibilities:    ? Designed and developed the application using C#, web forms ADO.Net, Telrik Control, SQL Server 2008.  ? Done front end Coding using C# .net  ? Use Crystal for developing Report's  ? Used VSS for versioning the applications  ? Coordinated with Client  ? Participated in all status review meetings.  Environment:  Microsoft .Net 3.5, .NET Framework, C#, Visual Studio 2008, SQL Server 2008, ADO.NET, VSS Software developer N-able Solution December 2009 to September 2010 Software Engineer N-able Solution December 2009 to September 2010 Project Name: Property Management System  Team Size: 3  Description:  Property Management System - The web application meant for realty sector and for those who want to manage their properties for rent/lending etc. The lending process involves many steps from rate structures, package plans and rate types, property information, etc. to managing the client related information, managing billing information, automation of billing, etc.    Responsibilities:  ? Designed and developed the application using C#, web forms ADO.Net, SQL Server 2008.  ? Done front end Coding using C# .net  ? Use Crystal Report tool for developing Report's  ? Involved in Bug Fixing, Coding, Enhancement and Maintenance  Environment:  Microsoft .Net 3.5, .NET Framework, C#, Visual Studio 2008, SQL Server 2008, ADO.NET Education Master Hitkarini College of Engineering and Technology affiliated Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Languages C# ASP.Net, Angular 4.0 and above  Architecture MVC, 3 Tire architecture, Design pattern, Entity Framework  Scripting Angular V-5.0, HTML 5, Java Script, Node JS, TypeScript, jQuery  Tool Visual Studio 2008/2012/2015, GitHub  Databases SQL SERVER 2008/2012, MySql, Oracle 10g  Technology WCF, SSRS Reports, Crystal Report  Systems Windows XP, Unix