Material Management Supervisor Material Management Supervisor Material Manager/ IT Software / Construction Data Analyzer Houston, TX Software Engineer specialized in Object-Oriented Design. Able to perform analysis and implementation of diverse development platforms. Over four years of experience with several programming languages, frameworks and tools. Bilingual in English and Spanish. Quick learner. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Material Management Supervisor Insulations Inc - Houston, TX September 2014 to Present Materials and logistics management during construction activities in the oil industry. Data analysis before, during and after the construction process. Maintain good communication with the materials team, know the phases of the project and provide support to meet the goals. Software Developer Empresa Nacional de Software December 2009 to October 2013 Development of new software products for the company.  • Analysis and design of a new web site to administer and provide services to manage the company's business.  • Installation and configuration of testing web servers.  • Maintenance and enhancement of existing software products.  • Technologies and Programming Languages: Postgre SQL 8.4, Java, Hibernate, SVN, C++, Ireport.  • Tools: Postgre SQL 8.4, Netbeans IDE 7.1, Ireport, Visual Studio 2012, Java Virtual Machine Education Bachelor's in Informatics Informatic Science University - Cuba, MO September 2004 to July 2009 Skills Construction Data Analysts (5 years), Microsoft Tools (10+ years), Inventory Techniques (5 years), Database Development (10+ years), SQL (10+ years), Data Entry (10+ years) Certifications/Licenses Safety Additional Information Technical Skills    • Computer Science Analyst / Programmer (more than four years experience)  • Object component oriented development software: C#, C++, JAVA.  • Database management system software: MS SQL Server 2005/2008 and MySQL 5.  • Requirement analysis and system architecture software: UML, Rational Unified Process and Rational Rose, SCRUM.  • Programming Frameworks: VisualStudio.NET 2012, Netbeans IDE 7.1.  • Web development framework: Asp.net MVC.  • Content Management Systems: Joomla.  • Operative Systems: Windows 7, Windows Advanced Server, Windows 8  • Excellent PC installation, configuration, troubleshooting and repair skills.  • Excellent printer installation skills.  • Excellent customer interface skills.  • Good Windows networking skills.  • Knowledge of MS Office 2010/2013/365, Win 7 & 8, Symantec AV and others.  • Knowledge of LAN, WAN, Firewalls, TCP/IP, Internet, E-mail technology.  • Basic training related to Windows 2008 domains.