Senior UIPATH Developer Senior UIPATH <span class="hl">Developer</span> Irving, TX • 7+ years of IT Industrial experience which including 2 years of UiPath development experience. Worked in all the phases of software development life cycle (SDLC).  • Own RPA Developer Foundation Diploma and Orchestrator Diploma certifications from UiPath academy.  • Well versed with UiPath Studio, Orchestrator and Robots creation.  • Financial and Telecommunication domain knowledge and experience.  • Experienced in installation and maintenance of Orchestrator server both in local and could servers (Azure virtual machine).  • Very well understanding and implementation knowledge of UiPath RE-Framework.  • Knowledge and experienced in utilization of Orchestrator API calls.  • Good understanding and implementation knowledge about Queues in Orchestrator.  • Knowledge of integrating and utilizing data visualization tools like Kibana and elastic search with the UiPath Orchestrator.  • knowledge and working experience on writing dynamic selectors.  • Very good knowledge of performing automations on Microsoft excel data.  • Successfully implemented CI/CD for UiPath code from UiPath studio to Azure Devop's.  • Working knowledge and experience with Azure cloud services.  • Knowledge and experience of using DBMS concepts in RPA development.  • Well versed in DBMS concepts and is also proficient in writing SQL queries, stored procedures, Functions, packages and triggers.  • Expertise in Relational database design and development using Oracle and MySQL.  • Some experience and knowledge of Amazon AWS concepts.  • Experienced working in software development, testing methodologies like Agile team, Development and test-driven Development (TTD).  • Experienced in leading small member team and ability to work with minimal supervision.  • Demonstrated expertise in handling development, maintenance and enhancement projects.  • Experience working in *INX environments.  • Provided training for the Junior team members on UIPath and project related sessions. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior UIPATH Developer CenturyLink - Denver, CO May 2019 to Present USA.  Description: Working closely with business end users for validating the processes, gathering the requirements, designing the processes, developing, testing and providing support for UAT and production hyper-care.  Languages and Tools:  UIPath Studio, orchestrator server, Unattended Robot, windows, SAP portal and GUI, Microsoft Excel, different internal web applications, etc.  Responsibilities:  • Participating in the client meeting to make them understand UiPath capabilities and helping them in creating the Process definition documents (PDD).  • Creating Solution Design documents for the client approved processes.  • Guiding or helping the team members, in understanding the requirements and coding the application.  • Developing the code and performing testing on the completed process.  • Providing support during the User acceptance test and production hyper-care for completed processes.  • Mentoring the junior developers and guiding them to code in best practices. PepsiCo - Dallas, TX August 2018 to April 2019 USA.  Description: Working closely with business end users, develop and support multiple projects for reporting team of size 20+ in financial domain.  Languages and Tools:  UIPath Studio, orchestrator server, Unattended Robot, windows, SAP portal and GUI, Microsoft Excel, different internal web applications, etc.  Responsibilities:  • Designed and identified various processes to be build and documented it.  • Identified and developed multiple reusable bots related to SAP and excel applications.  • Conducted training sessions to the users as a part of knowledge sharing sessions for better understanding of RPA (UiPath) capabilities and to understand while running the processes.  • Successfully implemented configuring VSTS for the current environment from UiPath studio to make the CI/CD.  • Created analytics reports with the help of kibana and elastic search, shared with the management for providing processes analytics.  • Providing support for the processes deployed and running in the production environment.  • Helping in any issues related to the UiPath application upgrades and deployment. Nitco Inc - Houston, TX May 2017 to July 2018 USA.  Description: The Invoice automation application helps the companies in automating their invoice generations on daily, bi-weekly and monthly based on their requirement.  Languages and Tools:  UIPath Studio, orchestrator server, Unattended Robot, windows.  Responsibilities:  • Created multiple process for data consuming from one process or queues and forwarding it to another process or in completing the final product.  • Worked on creation of Assets dynamically reading from excel sheet or from different source of input with the help of Http requests.  • Made API calls from the application to consume the data from third party applications.  • Made API calls for various process like getting the data about Assets, processes and Jobs by using dto classes.  • Installed and maintained the orchestrator server in locally and on cloud environments.  • Trained the Robots up to its full extended with dedicating 40-50% of project time.  • Pushed and consumed data from queues for process.  • Published data to SQL DB from the UIPath application/processes.  • Publishing and maintained packages in orchestrator server.  • Setup Kibana and elastic search application for the orchestrator log to provide daily reports for bot performance analysis.  • Prepared technical documents for future reference and understanding of the application. Senior Software Engineer Accenture May 2015 to December 2015 Client: Warner Bro's.  Description: The DETE application process the request for conversion of the digital content from its original version to the user requested format and providing it in the requested ftp location. This application also helps various ingest vendor to upload various processed or formatted content into the central application.  Languages and Platforms:  Java, SOAP web services, Oracle BPM, oracle SQL, Spring, hibernate (ORM), Maven repository, Unix, Windows.  Responsibilities:  • Implemented new enhancement "closed caption" to the application.  • Involved in complete SDLC using Agile including effort estimation, design, development, implementation, verification and validation.  • Developed or created the application functionality with the help of technologies like, Java, Spring, Hibernate, Oracle DB, pL/sql, etc.  • Planned deliverables and dependencies with other vendor teams through SOS and participate in weekly status meetings to discuss the project progress.  • Involved in the scenarios for performance testing followed up with performance team to run up the scripts.  • Maintained the ownership for the complete environment till the end of the development process.  • Worked on creating and maintaining of AWS instances like EC2, Elastic beanstalk for the corresponding modules.  • Creation of user groups and routing the network with Route53 for the application.  • Published and consumed the SOAP web services required for the communication of the components in the application.  • With the help of SVN used to maintain the code base and versioning for the project.  • Prepared all the required documentation for future reference and for support teams understandings. Software Engineer Accenture June 2012 to May 2015 Client: Warner Bro's.  Description: MARS is and media asset retrieval system, which holds the central repository for the media assets, where the vendors from across the world can request and download it per their requirements.  Languages and Platforms:  Java, HTML, JavaScript, jQuery, FLUX, Oracle/PL SQL, UNIX/LINUX/Solaris/Ubuntu, Vfabric tomcat server, Glassfish server, web objects.  Responsibilities:  • Drive and own the resolution of the incidents, communicating with businesses and another required teams for fixing the issues.  • Performing the root cause analysis for preventing it from reoccurring.  • Preparing the application for downtime and performing the deployments.  • Performing mandatory Security and system health checks for 100% system availability.  • Active participant in knowledge sharing and enhancements of the application  • Continuously updated the Run book with resolutions for new incidents and prepared the monthly and weekly application metrics  • Lead and successfully implanted couple of new modules to the application.  • Implemented automations with Unix scripts where manual intervention is required.  • Created and implemented oracle stored functions, procedures, triggers using SQL and PL/SQL.  • Creation or modification of application front-end methods with the help of JavaScript library jQuery.  • Implemented jQuery functions of creation of HTTP calls on various modules.  • Performed the client understanding sessions when they got stuck with the application utilization. Associate software engineer Accenture March 2011 to May 2012 Client: Euroclear  Description: Euroclear Documentum is an application which helps the Euroclear company in processing its end to end business workflow especially related to stock market by using EMC documentum tool.  Languages and Platforms: EMC documentum, Windows, Linux, Apache tomcat, Unix.  Responsibilities:  • As an associate member in the team learn the new technology (Documentum) and implemented 4 modules independently.  • Performed the unit and integration testing for the application.  • Helped testing team members in understanding the application throughout the testing phase.  • Prepared the required documentation for future references and understanding documents for the support team.  • Took the ownership of the maintaining the develop environment and required server maintenance throughout the development and testing phase. Education Master's Skills Git, SVN, ORACLE, SQL, APACHE, LINUX, UNIX, ECLIPSE, JAVA, SPRING, TOMCAT, WEB SERVICES, SOAP, MONGODB, VERSION CONTROL, ROBOTIC Links https://connect.uipath.com/profile/siddartha-siddu https://www.linkedin.com/in/siddartha-g-10a05b98 Additional Information Technical Skills:  Robotic Process Automation tools: UIPath.  Programming Technologies: Java, spring, python.  Version Control: SVN, TFS and GIT.  Methodologies: Agile, Test Driven Development.  Databases: Oracle, MS SQL, and MongoDB.  Web/Application Servers: Apache Tomcat, Glassfish.  IDE/Tools: Eclipse, IntelliJ, Spring Tool Suite (STS).  Platforms: Windows, Linux and UNIX.  Web Services: SOAP, Restful.  Cloud Technologies: Azure and AWS