Solution Architect Solution Architect Solution Architect - Centum Adetel US Work Experience Solution Architect Centum Adetel - Montréal, QC June 2018 to Present Tasks:  - Lead a team of developers  - Manage sprint/releases/Jira board  - Estimate functionalities  - Modules integration  - Solution configuration  - Develop specific modules for projects    Achievements:  - Managing the TCMS interface (developing and configuring modules to connect and interface with the client TCMS).  - Integration and configuration of a virtual machine running in a linux controller using qemu.  Managing the linux controller's image using buildroot (integrated packages, deamon configuration, startup scripts )    Technical Environment: Linux, Buildroot, C++, Python, Git, JIRA. Software Developer Centum Adetel - Montréal, QC October 2017 to May 2018 Tasks: Support for PIS (Passenger Information System) for ALSTOM.    Achievements:  - Enhancements for existing PIS system.  - Creating Windows embedded bootloader for controllers.    Technical Environment: Systems and software analyst at Mannarino Systems and Software Inc. System and Software Analyst Mananrino Systems and Software - Montréal, QC July 2016 to September 2017 Tasks: Develop simulation modules and all the tools facilitating the integration.    Achievements:  - Develop and test (unit test and ATM) aircraft simulation modules for the Air Data and Attitude and heading reference systems  - Design and develop a debug tool for the communication buses(ARINC429, CAN bus..) where buses data (messages and parameters) and their values can be visualized, plotted and exported in csv files.  - Develop tools to generate C++ code from aircraft input (excel file describing communications bus and variables, xml data, dlls )    Technical Environment: Windows platforms running visual studio, C, C++, c#, Python, Git, SVN. Software Engineer Nuum Solution - Montréal, QC December 2014 to July 2016 Tasks: Helping the client, GSI Electronics, developing and designing their new agriculture controller.    Achievements:  - Develop the product configuration wizard.  - Develop the RS-485 communication protocol management working closely with the firmware team: all the module's discovery, addressing and firmware updating process.    Technical Environment: C++ code developed in Eclipse on an Ubuntu machine and stored in SVN repositories. Qt and Boost used. Software Team lead SONATEST - Quebec City, QC July 2013 to December 2014 Tasks: Design and develop a new version of the company old flaw detector.    Achievements:  - Supervise a software team of 3, dispatching tasks, setting priorities and managing the software releases.  - Developing signal analysis and processing features for the product Software developer SONATEST - Quebec City, QC April 2012 to July 2013 Tasks: Help developing and releasing a new flaw detector.    Achievements:  - Developing ultrasonic features (signal processing, filter..)  - Developing a hardware test tool to automate the production line: automatically test all the product hardware (keypad, scrolling wheel, Bluetooth, usb connectors ) Software developer Blueberi Gaming technologies - Drummondville, QC March 2011 to April 2012 Drummondville, Québec, Canada  03/2011 - 04/2012    Software developer    Tasks: Adapt existing casino videogames to client.    Achievements:  - Modify, configure, build and test each casino videogame to specific client based on their requests: graphic, animations, behaviour, calculation engine.    Technical Environment: Visual studio, C, SVN, proprietary graphic and mathematic engine. Software engineer Sagem Communication - Gateways and Energy Efficiency - Tunis, TN November 2008 to July 2009 Tasks: Design and develop higher layers of a PLC modem for EDF to transmit consumption data via the power line.    Achievements:  - Develop and test IPv6 communication module: packing/unpacking and processing the data.  - Develop and test routing protocol.  - Test and evaluate the modem performance using a python script.    Technical Environment: Visual Studio, C/C++, Python, RTOS. Engineer Internship Ericson R&D and LARIM Polytechnique - Montréal, QC February 2008 to September 2008 Tasks: Study the mobility management in next generation networks based on the HMIPv6 protocol    Achievements:  - Implementation of the some features of the protocol and assess its performance.    Technical Environment: Openet Modeler, C++, C. Education Champlain College Longueil - Quebec City, QC 2015 Skills C++ (7 years), Subversion (5 years), SVN (5 years), Git (3 years), PYTHON (3 years) Additional Information LANGUAGES SKILLS  Arabic: Mother Tongue  French: Fluent  English: Fluent    TECHNICAL SKILLS  ? Operating Systems: Windows, UNIX, Linux, RTOS  ? Configuration Management: GIT, SVN, IBM Rational ClearCase  ? Languages: C/C++, Qt, WPF, Python, UML, XML, HTML/PHP, Shell  ? Network/Internet: ARINC429, RS-485, SNMP, DHCP, DNS, NTP, Ethernet  ? Development Tools: IAR Embedded Workbench, Qt, Visual C++, Eclipse, Netbeans, Notepad++  ? Processes, Procedures, Methodologies and Standards: OOP, Agile