Sr. Software Engineer, .NET/API Technical Lead Sr. <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer, .NET/API Technical Lead Sr. Software Engineer, .NET/API Technical Lead Enfield, CT Work Experience Sr. Software Engineer, .NET/API Technical Lead Rediker Software - Hampden, MA January 2018 to Present www.rediker.com  Full stack web development using ASP.NET Core and React. Primary focus on API design and architecture. Establish C# coding and testing patterns for developers. Research and implement new technologies. Code review and work planning in Agile environment. Sr Software Engineer East Point Systems - East Hartford, CT January 2017 to December 2017 Design testing and coding patterns for development team. Act as a mentor to junior developers. Client-side development with Angular JS. Research, design, and implementation of backend systems including:  • Request validation layer for ASP.NET Web API  • Integration testing framework for API  • IdentityServer OpenId/OAuth authorization layer  • Data import system  • Elasticsearch programming/configuration and testing Software Developer II Farm Credit Financial Partners Inc April 2014 to January 2017 www.financialpartners.com  Web development building SPAs (single page applications) with Javascript, HTML, Less/CSS, ASP.NET MVC, Web API, and Sitecore CMS extending and maintaining customer web properties, as well as hybrid mobile application development with Apache Cordova.  Notable Projects:  • Upgraded company's mobile application from a jQuery Mobile app to using the Durandal.js SPA framework and Bootstrap UI framework, including a complete refactoring of client application code Web Developer Brillium Inc April 2012 to April 2014 www.brillium.com  Remote position on small, fully distributed team. ASP.NET MVC and Web Forms, web and mobile-web application development using C#, VB, JavaScript, jQuery, jQuery Mobile, and SQL Server.  Notable Projects:  • Designed and coded the mobile-web version of the company's flagship product, a SaaS Assessment Delivery Platform Education A.S. in MIS Programming Springfield Technical Community College 2009 to 2013