Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer Arizona City, AZ Work Experience Software Developer Frontier Technology Inc - Chesapeake, VA March 2019 to June 2019 Developed software from scratch and maintained existing software contracted by the Navy. Worked in Visual Studio using C# and Microsoft Access using VBA and SQL.    • Created databases from scratch  • Developed Software from the ground up  • Maintained existing software  • Debugged and refactored legacy applications Software Developer Recovery Trek - Norfolk, VA November 2018 to December 2018 Worked as an intern as part of my degree through ECPI  Created and modified SalesForce.com organizations which were used by our customers to track various information related to drug testing programs for state licensed employees such as doctors, nurses, and lawyers.    • Created Java programs to automate work.  • Modified SQL queries.  • Used HTML, CSS, and JavaScript to create Visualforce pages.  • Created Apex classes (similar to Java) for the backend of the Visualforce pages.  • Created new organizations in SalesForce.com.  • Created new custom objects and forms. Information Technology Specialist Hewlett Packard Enterprise - Norfolk, VA January 2015 to July 2016 Employed by Insight Global as a contractor for HPE and later hired on directly by HPE.  Provided Nationwide IT Support servicing the U.S. Navy dealing with a multitude of Active Directory, software, hardware, and network related issues. Worked on about 30-40 issues a day with an average handle time of just over eight minutes and first call resolution of 83 percent.    • Frequently read and updated information in Active Directory including password resets.  • Used Microsoft PowerShell and engineered Scripts to manage Microsoft Exchange 2010 servers.  • Remotely administered various computers daily using Microsoft Remote Assistance and Remote Desktop Connection.  • Awarded employee of the month January 2016. Information Technology Specialist U.S. Army - White Sands Missile Range, NM 2009 to 2013 Provided onsite support for a Battalion of 500 soldiers including but not limited to, software installation, printer installation, hard drive crashes, re-imaging, Outlook issues, Microsoft Office issues, data recovery, Virus removal, Life Cycle, and various hardware and software issues. Also maintained and issued classified cryptographic keys used to encrypt secure network and radio communications. Conducted training on usage and handling of cryptographic material and performed onsite inspections of 30 personal customers.    • Led the deployment of a network consisting of 50 computer systems for use as a headquarters for the Army's Network Integration Evaluation (NIE).  • Deployed and maintained a computer network using the Secret Internet Protocol Router Network (SIPRNet) for use as our unit's pre-deployment training headquarters.  • Provided Training on several different computer systems and software.  • Transitioned our entire phone network over to use Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP).  • Trained customers on safeguarding and handling procedures for classified material.  • Personally managed 30 accounts holding classified cryptographic material. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science ECPI University - Virginia Beach, VA August 2016 to January 2019 Skills CSS, HTML 5, Javascript, .NET, C#, Java, SQL, SQL Server, Visual Studio, VBA, Microsoft Access