Software Engineer <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Software Engineer Austin, TX I am actively seeking a position developing games or other interactive software in or near Austin, TX.    My goal is to use technology in new ways to create unique and enjoyable experiences. I’d like a challenging, but encouraging, environment where I can develop my technical skills and push the limits of what is possible.    Available to start immediately. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Engineer Midnight Studios - Round Rock, TX December 2018 to Present Developed components of a plug and play TV fishing game, worked with artists to make sure assets met system requirements, and provided support for the in-house tools and engine. Freelance Designer Streamlabs November 2017 to Present Designed and created custom widgets and overlays, some with over 10,000 installs, for livestream channels on Twitch and YouTube. Software Developer Epic Systems - Verona, WI May 2016 to November 2017 Designed, developed, and managed projects on the security team. Updated password hashing and storage for software that protects the medical records of over 200 million patients. Acted as team representative for user experience and aesthetics. Teaching Assistant University of Oklahoma - Norman, OK August 2013 to December 2015 Explained computer science concepts in Java, C, and discrete mathematics to individuals and lab sections of up to 40 students. Provided feedback on assignments. Computer Science Intern Tinker Air Force Base, Oklahoma City June 2014 to August 2014 Created a program in C++ that would transform a polygonal model of an aircraft into an array of discrete points in space, which could later be used to analyze the likelihood of radar detection. A supercomputer was utilized to achieve centimeter precision. Software Programmer Tax Centers of America - Russellville, AR February 2012 to March 2013 Wrote calculations to fill PDF forms as part of an application designed for public tax preparation. Education Master of Science in Computer Science University of Oklahoma Norman - Norman, OK August 2013 to December 2015 Bachelor of Arts in Music Arkansas Tech University Russellville - Russellville, AR August 2008 to December 2012 Skills C++ (4 years), Java (2 years), Python (1 year), C# (2 years), HTML (3 years), CSS (3 years), Javascript (2 years), Unity (Less than 1 year), Photoshop (2 years), Illustrator (Less than 1 year), After Effects (Less than 1 year), Adobe Animate (Less than 1 year), Perforce (Less than 1 year) Assessments Problem Solving — Expert July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to analyze relevant information when solving problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/cunzxjjk7ycvuxyz Critical Thinking — Expert July 2019 Using logic to solve problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/o91aib-sgvrv2xj1 Numerical Reasoning Skills — Expert July 2019 Quickly and accurately perform basic mathematical operations, recognize numerical sequences, and interpret graphs. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/vk-irvm9zia3vqgr Graphic Design — Highly Proficient July 2019 Using graphic design techniques and producing visual media to communicate concepts. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/ctbitv5goaasqjpb Attention to Detail — Expert July 2019 Identifying differences in materials, following instructions, and detecting details among distracting information. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/8hwesf4zgcwrc2l8 Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.