ETL Developer ETL <span class="hl">Developer</span> ETL Developer Fremont, CA ? A result-oriented professional with over 2.7 years experience in application development & enhancement, service delivery in Banking domain and in Customer relationship management.  ? Experienced in Requirement Analysis, Application Maintenance, Functional Studies, Quality Reviews and Testing with technical expertise includes ETL and oracle technology.  ? Expertise in Data Warehousing/ETL programming and Fulfillment of data warehouse project tasks such as data extraction, cleansing, transforming and loading.  ? Expertise in using various Transformations like Filter, Joiner, Lookup and Sorter, SCD's.  ? Has good experience in creating Mappings, Sessions and various transformations in Informatica Power center 9.x.  ? Experience in Integration of various Data sources like Oracle, Flat files into a staging area.  ? Implementing SCD Type-1 without using Look up transformation and update strategy.  ? Concept of Data warehousing and its implementation.  ? Knowledge on writing SQL statements to meet the business requirements. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience ETL Developer Magnaquest Technologies Limited July 2013 to November 2014 Project Objective:  The project objective is to extract and load the DWHSwiss data in integrated data warehouse as well as in Operational data store.    Project Description  DWHSwiss is configured to receive data from heterogeneous systems and get them to staging and load them to the data warehouse.    Cembra Money Bank is one of the leading Swiss providers of financial services - offering a wide range of products including loans, leasing, credit cards and savings products."Flexible solutions for individual objectives". For us, as an experienced Swiss bank, the needs of our clients, partners and service providers come first. Thanks to our commitment and flexibility, we develop secure and simple financing solutions that enable our clients to achieve their individual goals. Irrespective of whether they need loans, a leasing arrangement, credit cards or savings products.    Cembra Money Bank, with its headquarters in Zurich Altstetten, is one of the leading Swiss providers of financial products and financial services. In Switzerland, it has over 700 employees, drawn from more than 40 nations.    Contribution:  ? Involving in functional studies and being part of walk through with stake holders  ? Created mappings using the transformations such as the Source qualifier, Aggregator, Expression, Router, Filter, Sequence Generator, and Update Strategy.  ? Extraction, Transformation and Loading (ETL) of data by using Informatica Power Center.  ? Receiving Change requests and analyzing the requirements (ETL specifications).  ? Creating documents for design and mapping  ? Preparation Detailed Design.  ? Creating mappings, Sessions, Workflows.  ? Implementing error handling strategy.  ? Code migration to environments.  ? Developing slowly changing dimensions.  ? Unit testing and documenting the Test results.  ? Scheduling jobs for the workflows.  ? Working on performance tuning of ETLs & SQLs.  ? Identifying errors occurring during unit and UAT testing and providing prompt resolution for the same    Project#1 Previously, worked as a Software Engineer Magnaquest Technologies Limited April 2012 to November 2014 Project Profile:  Project #2:  Title: DWHSwiss.  Client: Cembra Money Bank.  Operating System: MS Windows, UNIX.  Tools: Informatica 9.1, Oracle 10g  Team Size: 8 Informatica Developer Magnaquest Technologies Limited April 2012 Environment: Informatica Power Centre 8.6, Oracle11g and Windows.    Project Objective:  The project objective is to extract data from legacy systems and load into operational data store and in Enterprise data warehouse.    Project description:    Asian Broadcasting Network (M) Sdn Bhd ("ABNxcess") is Malaysia's First Digital Cable Network that was formed with the aim of supporting the development of knowledge-based communities throughout the nation by reducing the digital divide with affordable access to content, whether through internet or TV. The Network was awarded the license to operate the Digital Cable Network which included 'triple play services' such as Video, Data and Voice. Through its tagline, 'Access for All', ABNxcess is fully committed to offering fixed high-speed internet connectivity and high definition TV at Unbeatable Value.    Contribution  ? Requirements gathering and analysis of ETL specifications  ? Creating/Enhancing mapping using Informatica.  ? Building job schedules  ? Monitoring and identifying bottlenecks.  ? Co-ordinated with various stake holders like Infrastructure, R&A team, DA Team, DEV Team and source system owners and involved in the discussion of things support related.  ? Managing multiple environments like DEV, QA, UAT and PROD.  ? Good understanding of general warehousing concepts like relational modeling (Star schemas), optimizing for performance.  ? Good understanding of multiple data load phases - Staging to Detail data store to Summary data store etc  ? Good understanding of all validation and Testing.  ? Implemented Incremental and Full refreshes  ? Implemented change data capture and slowly changing dimensions.  ? Good SQL skills Education Master's Additional Information Technical Skills:    Primary Skill: Informatica Power Center 8.6/9.1.  Secondary Skill Category 1: Oracle 11g/10g sql/plsql, Unix, Data warehousing.  Secondary Skill Category 1: Cobol.  Trained Skill: Hadoop.  Operating systems: Windows and Unix.  Tools: TOAD, Sql developer, File Zilla, WinSCP, Putty and VNC