Developer <span class="hl">Developer</span> Developer - Ushodaya Enterprises Pvt. Ltd Seeking the position of CRM Developer where my CRM application design skills will be fully utilized to obtain efficacy and effectiveness in the organization. My expertise in customization CRM systems will be very beneficial in maintaining the stability of the organization.    • Hands on experience in creating real time workflows, developing plugins and custom activity  Workflows and dialogs in Microsoft Dynamics CRM.  • Hands on experience in creating reports using CRM fetch XML and SQL query as a source.  • Hands on experience in creating scribe jobs and integrations using Scribe Work Bench/Scribe Console.  • Extensive knowledge and technical expertise using Microsoft visual studio for developing web  Applications using C#, ASP.NET, ADO.NET  • Hands on experience in database schema design and writing SQL queries, stored procedures, prepared  Statements, triggers and functions in SQL Server 2008 and 2012 environment.  • Capable of prioritizing work in strict timelines while meeting the requirements maintaining standards.  • Experience in working on Production issues, Finding Root Cause and Providing Quick Fixes/Workarounds  On emergency issues. Work Experience Developer Ushodaya Enterprises Pvt. Ltd June 2018 to Present Description:  Click dimensions have marketing automation platform like email marketing, campaign automation, web intelligence, surveys, web forms and landing pages, social marketing and more. I have involved in the NetSuite integration development, from dynamics CRM orders to NetSuite sales order and customer integration.    Quick Books -Project #02:  Project Title: Crescent  Environment: Dynamics 365, JavaScript, SQL 2014. Developer Ushodaya Enterprises Pvt. Ltd May 2018 to Present Description:  Crescent Products is a leader in dental chair accessories. From Headrests to full Body rest Systems, we create ergonomic dental chair products that help dentists provide comfort and care to patients of all ages and body types, I have involved in the Quick Books integration development, from dynamics CRM orders to Quick Books estimate, customer and products integration.    Project #03:  Project Title: Irvine scientific  Environment: MS CRM 2013, Javascript, SQL 2014, C#.NET. Developer Ushodaya Enterprises Pvt. Ltd December 2017 to Present Description:  SchoolKidz is leading the industry in Sourcing products and providing Kitting and Assembly solutions for Schools, Parent Groups, Businesses, and Organizations. We provide CPQ(Configure Price Quote), Powertrak grids for preparing school grade kits. Insertion of records. Creating quotes etc. Created scribe jobs that moves data from GP table to sql server. Created workflows that sends the email to the sales coordinator and persion.    Project # 07:  Project Title: Shimadzu.Sales.com.  Environment: Dynamics CRM, C#.NET Developer Ushodaya Enterprises Pvt. Ltd July 2017 to Present Description:  Harrell's car wash systems provide car wash equipment's to automate external car washing process. So we help them to build quotes, by using CPQ (shopping cart).writing workflows, creating custom entities, writing ssrs reports etc.  Created C# asp.net page for logging GPS (latitude, longitude) using google code for GPS, Bootstrap for responsive page and saving these details into SQL server.  Project #05:  Project Title: Freedom Concepts (cycles for disabled people).  Environment: Dynamics 365, JavaScript, SQL 2014, C#. Developer Ushodaya Enterprises Pvt. Ltd June 2017 to Present Description:  Shimadzu is a u.s.a client which manufactures scientific instruments for clinical labs, they use Powertrak Product Configurator to create a quote to sell instruments like microscopes to customers. They use powertrak grids to show the details of the quote. We will also develop reports to show all the quotes in that particular opportunity etc.    Created plug-in for refreshing the views in the MS SQL server after creating fields in the CRM.    Project # 08:  Project Title: Koorsen  Environment: Dynamics CRM, C#.NET, Plugin, workflows, Scribe WorkBench Developer Ushodaya Enterprises Pvt. Ltd April 2017 to Present Description:  Freedom concepts provide customized bikes for physically disabled people. So we provide them CPQ (shopping cart) to build quotes .creating products, pricelists, writing workflows, creating custom entities, writing SSRS reports etc.  Written C# code that integrates the products and pricelists to the powertrak (client portal) SQL server tables.    Project #06:  Project Title: Staples (Schoolkidz.com)  Environment: CRM 2016. Developer Ushodaya Enterprises Pvt. Ltd March 2017 to Present Description:  Irvine scientific sales provides unrivalled service and quality to scientists working in cell therapy and regenerative medicine. We have created workflows to calculate time spent in each stage, written ssrs report to compare which stage has spent more time in each opportunity. Creating custom entities, writing JavaScript web resources, entity relationships, adding field level security.  Created projects, written C# code for copy opportunity and quotes, using dialogs user has to enter how many copies you needed.  Dynamics 365, programmatically moving stages if the required fields the filled, created a solution using C#.  Project #04:  Project Title: Harelles (Car wash Systems).  Environment: Dynamics 365, JavaScript, SQL 2014, C#.NET, SSRS reports Software Developer November 2015 to Present Hyderabad as a Programmer Ushodaya Enterprises Pvt. Ltd May 2013 to Present 2013 to Developer Ushodaya Enterprises Pvt. Ltd January 2016 to August 2017 Description:  Koorsen Fire & Security has made homes and businesses safer Created plug-ins and custom activity workflows for consume the web service and retrieve the data from the CRM entities and sending those to the WCF service and get the value (total amount), and created workflows.    (M.Mohan) Hyderabad as a Software Engineer from October 2011 to October 2012 NeoApp Technologies Pvt. Ltd October 2015 to October 2015 Education SSC ZPH School 2004 to 2006 Additional Information • Excellent logical and analytical skills with the ability to work under pressure.  • Ability to work in a team environment with tight schedules and capable of working efficiently under pressure.  • Good communication skills.    SKILS: C#.NET, CRM SDK, JavaScript, Jscript, Scribe Work Bench, MS-SQL, Dynamics 365, CRM 2016, 2015, 2013, 2011, XRM, SSRS.