Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer Atlanta, GA • Around 7 years of professional IT experience in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including Design, Development, Testing, Enhancements and Deployment of enterprise and interactive web based applications.  • Experience in developing Web/Enterprise applications using various Java/J2EE technologies such as Spring MVC, JSP, Promises, WebServices.  • Developed user interface using JSP, Ext JS, Promises, jQuery, JSON, HTML, CSS, AJAX and JavaScript.  • Extensive knowledge in XML related technologies like XML, DTD, XML Schema (XSD), SAX and DOM Parsers.  • Used XStream java based library to serialize java objects to XML and back again.  • Designed applications using various Java/J2EE Design Patterns like creational, structural and behavioral design patterns (MVC, Singleton, Data Access object, Façade and Business Delegate).  • Good knowledge in OOP's, OOAD and Service Oriented Architecture (SOA).  • Good knowledge in writing UNIX Shell scripts to improve the Performance.  • Good hands on experience using ANT and Maven Build Scripts for building projects.  • Good knowledge in SQL, PL/SQL, Stored Procedures and Triggers with Relational Databases like MySQL.  • Good experience in using Log4J for logging and debugging purposes.  • Good experience in writing test cases using JUnit Framework.  • Extensive use of QC, JIRA, JIRA Agile for execution of test cases and involved in bug management life cycle.  • Experience in the Agile Development Process. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Developer Jacada January 2012 to May 2018 Description: Jacada offers unified desktop solutions and process optimization products for customer service and support.  Sales Desktop: Sales Desktop - Order entry optimization is the user interface for an ICOMS application used by COX sales representatives with the target of simplifying the order entry, reduce average handling time, reduce error rates and improve customer experience.  Responsibilities:  • Implemented Agile methodology, participated in daily Scrum meetings and involved in user stories estimation sessions.  • Involved in Design, Development and maintenance of the application, participated in design walk through meetings mapping the solution design documents with the user stories.  • Developed user interface using Ext JS with sencha architect, also involved in building custom theme for the application.  • Implemented MVC architectural pattern using Spring MVC framework to decouple the business logic layer and the presentation layer.  • Involved in interfacing with ActiveVOS workflow to consume the responses from REST services.  • Used Jackson to convert json strings to java objects while processing the input requests from UI.  • Used XStream library to serialize objects to XML and from XML to the objects.  • Involved in writing test cases and reviewing unit tests using Junit framework, also involved in code refactoring.  • Worked on enhancements provided by the business owners from the agents feedback.  • Involved in bug fixing and used QC as quality assurance tool for logging the defects. Also, used JIRA Agile for bug tracking along with the reporting team progress, velocity and backlog for each sprint.  Environment: JDK 7, BEA Weblogic 10.6.2, Apache Tomcat 7.0, ExtJS 4.2, Sencha Architect 3.0.4, Spring MVC, Jackson, Xstream, ActiveVOS, Web Services, Junit 4.11, Quality Center, JIRA Agile, Log4j, SVN  C-3PO: The Constituent Contact Center Portal (C-3PO) initiative is a multi-phased, technology-based contact center improvement project. The benefits derived from this initiative is Reduce Average Handling time, Increase First Call resolution, improve Agent experience by providing Unified Desktop for accessing information, Creation of cases for easy reference for agents (Case management and Workflow capabilities).  Responsibilities:  • Implemented Waterfall methodology, involved in design, development and maintenance of the application.  • Involved in extensively using jQuery, Ext JS for developing user interface and worked on theming the application as needed.  • Involved in interfacing with ActiveVOS workflow for handling case management such as creation of the case, editing the case etc.  • Used spring MVC framework to decouple UI layer, business layer and data access layer.  • Used Apache axis to generate stubs to consume REST web service.  • Involved in deploying and delivering the builds that includes change requests/business requirements.  • Involved in fixing the defects and used JIRA as defect logging tool for tracking the defects.  Environment: JDK 6, Web Sphere 7.0, jQuery, ExtJS 3.4, Spring MVC, Apache axis2, Apache Tomcat, Web Services, Junit 4, JIRA, SVN  QIR: It is a rich user interface which allows an agent to perform customer search and view a consolidated profile of the customer.  Responsibilities:  • Implemented Water fall methodology, participated in user requirement meetings.  • Used Sencha Architect with Ext JS and jQuery to build user interface.  • Implemented dynamic chain of requests using promises.  • Used spring MVC framework to decouple UI layer, business layer and data access layer.  • Involved in bug fixing and used JIRA for logging the defects.  Environment: JDK 7, ExtJS 4.2, Sencha Architect, Apache Tomcat, Spring MVC, Promises, Junit 4.11, JIRA, Log4j, SVN  CDA-C: The Consolidated Desktop Application for "Customer Care" solution will provide an interface between the agent desktop and the company's Computer Telephony Integration (CTI) system and simplify current processes spanning across multiple applications by automating redundant tasks. Auto login features which include a password vault will be included in the solution to improve agent efficiency.  Responsibilities:  • Developed user interfaces using jQuery and Ext JS  • Participated in design walk through and daily status meetings.  • Used spring MVC framework to decouple the business layer and the presentation layer.  • Involved in fixing defects and worked on enhancements as needed in the application.  Environment: JDK 6, jQuery, ExtJS 3.4, Apache tomcat, Spring MVC, SVN  TransportUtility: An internal application that provides a user interface allowing user to view all the available dashboards, tabs and portlets and the ability to select the required components in order to build a custom layout for the application.  Responsibilities:  • Developed user interface using Eclipse SWT  • Used XPath to parse and extract data from xml  • Worked on DOM to create, traverse, search for nodes and access node content  • Worked on fixing defects and enhancements as needed in the application  Environment: JDK6, Eclipse SWT, XPath, SVN Software Developer iSigma - Atlanta, GA December 2009 to September 2011 Description: The application is a fully integrated web-based Customer Information (CIS) and Billing solution provided for Retail Electric Providers, TDSPs and Energy Aggregators. The features include Customer Enrollment Life Cycle Management, Campaign Enrollment, EDI Transactions, Customer portal for quick access of customer information and interfaces with various payment/financial institutions.  Responsibilities:  • Developed the user interface using JSPs, jQuery, JSON, HTML and client-side validations using JavaScript.  • Used Struts framework for achieving Model View Controller architecture at web tier level.  • Developed the Presentation layer using the Struts framework including Tiles, JavaBeans and Struts tag libraries  • Improved code reuse and performance by making effective use of various  design patterns such as Singleton, Business Delegate, Service Locator, DAO,  Value Object, etc.  • Used Web Services API calls to implement login, register and perform necessary validations for Enrollment.  • Performed EDI Transaction testing extensively to test customer status for Campaign Enrollment.  • JDBC was used to access the MS SQL database to persist customer usage information.  • Performed Unit testing, Functional testing using Junit framework and fixed bugs during maintenance of the application.  Environment: JDK 1.5, BEA WebLogic 9.2, JSP, Struts 1.3, JavaScript (jQuery), JSON, MS SQL, Log4j, Junit, SVN, XML, J2EE design patterns Education Master's in Electrical and Computer Science Engineering in Electrical and Computer Science Engineering Texas A & M University Bachelor of Technology in Technology JNTU - Atlanta, GA Skills Javascript, CSS, Java, ext js, JQuery Additional Information Technical Skills  • Frameworks  Spring MVC, Spring 2.0, Apache Struts 1.3, Axis2, Junit, Log4j, REST, WSDL2.0    • Web Technologies  Javascript, ExtJS, Promises, JQuery, Angular JS, JSON, HTML, CSS,    • API's  XStream, Jackson, XPATH    • IDE's  Eclipse, Sencha Architect    • Application Servers  Apache Tomcat, Weblogic 10.6.2, Websphere    • Tools  SVN, SoapUI, Jira, Jira Agile, QC