Application Developer (.NET) Application <span class="hl">Developer</span> (.NET) Application Developer (.NET) - Southwest Business Corporation San Antonio, TX ? 6+ years of Professional .Net Development experience in all phases of SDLC ( Software Development Life Cycle) such as planning, analysis, design, implementation, testing and maintenance of Web Based and N-tier Architectures in domains like Finance, Insurance, Healthcare, IT using Methodologies Like Agile (Extreme Programming, Scrum), Waterfall Model and Test-Driven Development TDD.  ? Incorporated many rich, user friendly, responsive features in the application using Angular JS, HTML5, JQuery, Telerik Controls, Ajax, CSS3, and Bootstrap in process of Developing Single page Applications (SPA)  ? Experience in advanced JavaScript/UI frameworks like Angular JS, Bootstrap/UI, JSON, JQuery  ? Created Single page applications using Angular JS, Node JS, React JS, HTML5, CSS3 and Bootstrap and for enhancing the performance and look and feel of the webpage Extensive Experience with ORM technologies like Entity FrameworkCode first /Database first Approach and performance tuning in Entity framework 6.  ? Expertise knowledge on Object Oriented Programming (OOPS) Concepts including Inheritance, Abstraction, Encapsulation and Polymorphism, good experience in Exception Handling, Debugging and Tracing concepts.  ? Experience on latest .Net Framework (3/3.5/4/4.5/ CORE 2.0) with N-tier Architecture model and design patterns.  ? Highly Knowledgeable in ASP.NET MVC 6.0/5.0/4.0/3.0 in implementing Model, View and Controllers with State Management, Security, Action methods Including Creation of Partial Views, Strongly Typed Views, Filters Routing etc.  ? Experience of working with AngularJS core with other modules like Angular Route, Angular-UI DataGrid, AngularFire and others.  ? Expertise in AngularJS on Filters, Validations, Controllers, Directives, Components, Factory, Service Resources, Routings and Events.  ? Extensive experience of Object-Oriented JavaScript design pattern and JavaScript MVC Patterns Preferably Angular JS and React JS.  ? Experienced in Implementing WCF services and consuming using different protocols and implementing features like Debugging, Performance, and Security and creating Service, Data, Fault and Message Contracts and services.  ? Leveraged the introduction of Web API Controllers (Web API 2) in ASP.NET MVC 5/6 to build, maintain Restful API's and also consume the API's client side using Angular JS data binding.  ? Experience in working extensively with ADO.NET objects such as Data Adapter, Dataset, and Data Reader to interact with databases like SQL Server 2008/2005/2000 & Oracle 11g/10g/9i/8i.  ? Extensive Experience in Creation of Stored Procedure, Views, Triggers, Functions, T-SQL, PL/SQL, Indexes, Cursors, Performance Tuning, and SQL Profiler. Including writing of complex queries using SQL.  ? Hands on experience with SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS), SQL Server Integrating System (SSIS) using SQL 2008/2005.  ? Extensive working experience in unit testing framework - Integration Testing, MS Unit Test, NUNIT.  ? Experienced in Using Various Version Controlling Team Foundation server (TFS), Visual Source safe (VSS), GIT.  ? Experienced in creating and maintaining the Documentation of the Projects related information like Architecture, development Details to SharePoint.  ? Worked Extensively with Production Support Team 24x7 in debugging the issues and Fixing them based on Priority levels.  ? Excellent Verbal Communication, Written, Analytical Skills with a customer service-oriented attitude and worked with the offshore team as onsite coordinator to provide the update on the daily basis. Work Experience Application Developer (.NET) Southwest Business Corporation - San Antonio, TX February 2019 to Present Responsibilities:  • Contributed to the architecture and design (architecture, design patterns, reliability and scaling) of existing and new software application.  • Involved in full Software development life cycle software engineering practices including coding standards, testing, source control management, and operations.  • Worked in an agile environment of SDLC including planning and collaboration in TFS.  • Implemented web based framework using JavaScript/JQuery to help to achieve run time validations.  • Developed the business logic using Microsoft .Net (C#, MVC 5, WCF, Entity Framework core) with MVVM pattern.  • Implemented Entity Framework Core Code First Approach to interact with the database and also implemented the Mapping, Model changes, and CRUD operations and dealt with performance issues.  • Use third party libraries and frameworks such as Telerik, Bootstrap, HTML to PDF, NewtonSoft Json etc.  • Design the UI using HTML, CSS, Bootstrap and Kendo UI.  • Design and develop complex SQL database structures including stored procedures, views, Indexes, Functions, tables, etc.  • Implemented data encryption using TDES, SHA1, SHA2, SHA 256 techniques.  • Install the SSL certificates for the secure web sessions.  • Implemented web services using WEB API to return data in JSON and used Postman tool to test the functioning of the APIs  • Configure and deploy applications on IIS 7.0 within the .Net framework on the Windows Server 2016.  • Investigated production issues and fix the problems and re deployed in to production phase.  • Worked on Azure Service BUS API that allows to create, send, receive and read messages across the sender and receiver clients.  • Developing RESTful and SOAP Web Services to request the service from other organization/Company to use the services.  • Worked on distributed Systems and web services design and implementation services.  • Worked on Ajax script to communicate client-side server without refreshing the page and JavaScript to validate the forms in web pages.  • Implemented Authentication and Authorization to ensure the server that is connected is the correct server.  • Contributed in upgrading the architecture from single tier to an N-tier system. Full Stack .Net Developer Employees Retirement System of Texas - Austin, TX April 2018 to January 2019 ERS is an employee retirement department based on various benefits programs, retiree benefits, and Medicare and non-Medicare retirees. The department works on various processing such as Summer Enrollment, PBES, Non-Contributing letters, 1099s, etc.    Responsibilities:  • Gaining the sub system knowledge and understanding its business requirement.  • Have done impact analysis to identify components affected with the enhancement change and documented the implementation plan for affected components.  • Have done changes to the database by adding additional columns and displayed it on the asp page.  • Migrated the whole application from classic asp (vb.net) to Asp.net 4.5  • Added SSL certificated to the web application  • Added the ajax toolkit and implemented various Ajax features and user level validations to the application.  • Implemented the SHA-256 encryption technique to encrypt the user data.  • Used TDES technique to encrypt and decrypt data while coming from the UI to the Database.  • Created the Web API controllers in ASP .Net MVC to build, maintain Restful API's, also consumed API's client side using Angular JS data binding.  • Created WinForms and WebForms for developing the applications using win controls, Webserver controls and HTML controls.  • Created a new application from scratch using the asp.net 4.5 and implemented the WCF services in it to obtain response from the client side.  • Used MVVM pattern while building WPF application.  • Built, deployed, and monitored the SSIS packages for the data transfer.  • Applied the AGILE methodology of the SDLC which include Business layer, Service layer and data layer for the application.  • Developed customized ArcGIS Desktop applications using ArcObjects.  • Linked the application to the business logic in mainframes and brought validation responses from the mainframes.  • Have performed UNIT Testing and obtained the UTR.  • Have deployed the code to the System test (SIT), UAT and PROD environments and provided support to the applications  Environment: Windows, ASP. Net, WCF, C#, ADO.NET, Visual Studio 2017/2015, SQL Server 2012/2014, SSIS, HTML, JavaScript, AJAX, CSS, VSS, WPF, UML, XML, IIS 8.0 and SDLC. Net Developer DXC Technology - Austin, TX January 2017 to April 2018 It is a health care project for detection of fraud and abbusement in texas medicaid benefits and programs. Main intention of the application is to track the nursing frauds. Where people utilize the government schemes to provide services to the old age people/ disabled. The nursing facilities send their own nurses for the treatment and medicines of the old age people and files claims with the state. Our department judges and checks if the invoices made are relevant to the onsite patient inspection report.    Responsibilities:  • Responsible for designing the ASP.NET application authentication using .NET Framework, Model View Controller MVC 5/6 and IIS security model.  • Implemented MVVM pattern for development.  • Responsible for Designing and Developing the Reusable UI Components Like MVC Master Pages "Layouts and Nested Layouts", "View Start" and MVC User Controls "Partial Views"  • Developed WCF service endpoints and exposed them over default protocol (soap over http) settings.  • Built stand-alone mapping applications using ArcObjects.  • Designing WPF Forms, Custom Controls and User Controls using XAML language for interactive UI.  • Worked on Visual Studio 2017/ .Net CORE 2.0 Framework to implement Business Logic.  • Used the latest WPF/XAML vector-based UI framework for the front end and WCF to implement the various services.  • Used ArcObjects as a library of Component Object Model (COM) components that make up the foundation of ArcGIS.  • Involved in developing Single page Applications (SPA) throughout the application.  • Created proof of concept for implementing views in AngularJS rather than using razor for development  • Created various Angular 4/5 Services & injected them into Angular 4/5 Controllers (using Dependency Injection) to enable AJAX calls and created custom angular directives to create own HTML tags and induce some kind of functional behavior to those tags.  • Actively involved in coding and designing using C#, XML, JavaScript, HTML5, and Cascading style sheets (CSS3)  • Responsible in developing Stored Procedures, Views, Indexes, Scripts for database transactions on SQL Server 2012.  • Built SSIS packages to transform data to various platforms and developed deployed and monitored SSIS packages.  • Implemented Two-Way Data-binding in AngularJS to handle the automatic synchronization of data between the model and view components for application.  • Implemented AngularJS controllers to handle front end events, used AngularJS directives to create custom validation and partial pages and created AngularJS services to consume Web API.  • Implemented AJAX functionality using Angular JS HTTP Provider to load contents individually in different partial views to minimize loading time and for better user experience.  • Implemented the Entity Framework Code First Approach to interact with Database and also implemented the Mappings, Model Changes, CRUD operations and dealt with performance issues.  • Worked with Node JS, Express, Grunt, Gulp and Bower for setting up local server, running tasks and managing dependencies.  • Experience with Continuous Integration (CI) and Continuous Deployment (CD) in order to integrate and deploy the code into the server using Automation.  • Developed the web services using Web API and implemented ADO.NET Entity Framework.  • to model and manage the data from SQL Server.  • Configure Azure cloud service for end - point deployment, Deployed WCF services on Azure cloud.  • Used custom error handling in web API to pass proper error message rather than generic error message to better understand the error.  • Successfully dealt with production related issues for this application and submitted the deliverables on time that reduces the business impact.  • Performed complex parameterized SQL queries to multiple tables in SQL server 2008 and implemented Joins in Stored Procedures to get the desired data by joining multiple tables in Domain layer.  • Design and Implement Database Schema import data and build stored procedures on SQL Azure.  • Unit tested various components of the program to make sure all the components were behaving properly.  Environment: Visual Studio 2015/2013, C#, ASP.Net 4.0/3.5, .NET Core 2.0, WCF, WPF, Web API 1.0/2.0, jQuery, AngularJS 1.0/2.0/4.0/5.0, Node JS, IIS 6.0, AJAX, ADO.Net Entity Framework 6.0/5.0, LINQ, XML, NUnit, XML, HTML, Bootstrap, Microsoft Enterprise Library, Oracle 11g, HIPAA, NUNIT, SQL Server 2008 R2, BizTalk, Windows Server 2012. Net Developer American Airlines - Fort Worth, TX April 2016 to January 2017 American Airlines, Inc. (AA), commonly referred to as American, is a major American airline headquartered in Fort Worth, Texas. It is the world's largest airline when measured by fleet size, revenue, and scheduled passenger-kilometers flown, and the second largest by number of destinations served.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in the complete Software Development Life Cycle including Analysis, Design, Implementation, Testing and Maintenance.  • Developed solutions for diverse programming scenarios in VB.Net, employing Object Oriented Programming (OOP) concepts such as: encapsulation, inheritance, polymorphism, and abstraction.  • Implemented changes in coding and designs using knowledge ofVB.Net.  • Extensive Experience in Implementing View, Model, Controller and View model by using ASP.Net MVC 4.0/3.0 Framework.  • Used the DEVExpress subscription to make UI controls for WinForms, ASP.NET, Document server etc.  • Used ASP.NET MVC4 Page Controller pattern to add functionality to individual pages such that to accept input from the page request, invoke the requested actions on the mode.  • Implemented UI layer using Partial views, views, Layouts, Themes by using Razor, Bootstrap, HTML5.  • Created Html Helpers in order to reduce the amount of tedious typing of HTML tags.  • Used JQuery to perform validations and catch the events on client's browser.  • Implemnted Popup Calendar for JQuery UI Datapicker using HTML5, JQuery.  • Responsible is using JQuery for Client-Side Validations, Calling the Controller Actions, and Making calls to the WCF Services.  • Used WPF for creating and improving certain user controls features including context menu items, which involved the use of XAML code.  • Used AngularJs Built in Directives and Custom-made Directives.  • Implemented Client-side validation using AngularJs custom form validation with ng-show, ng-if and ng-hide.  • Implement functionality such as Searching, Filtering, Sorting and Validating data using AngularJS framework.  • Used MVVM pattern while building WPF application.  • Used hibernate, WPF and WCF to communicate between DAL and other business components.  • Used Fiddler to analyze request and response of Json data from the controllers to Web API's.  • Developed Entity Framework 6.0/4.3 and made LINQ queries to connect to the database and implemented CRUD functionality with Entity framework Code First and Database First approaches with ASP.NET MVC 5.0/4.0.  • To retrieve the data in the form of objects and properties, such as customers and customer addresses, without concerning them with the underlying database where this data is stored using ENTITY FRAMEWORK.  • Implemented the WCF Data Contracts versioning by using Knowntypes and IExtensibleDataObject, Ordering and enforcing required data when contracts consumed by clients.  • Created WCF SOAP, WCF REST Services and also used different bindings to make it available to different types of clients.  • Developed WCF Services for building applications that send and receive messages by using the Simple Object Access Protocol (SOAP) over HTTP.  • Exclusively used JQgrid to display and save data, along with various JQgrid features like load once, custom formatter, and custom alignment  • Developed Stored procedures, views for data manipulation, ensuring set up relations includes indexing, constraints, and foreign keys in SQL server.  • Developing SSIS packages for integration with downstream / upstream application and generating reports which could be sent to other Systems.  • Used SSRS to create reports, customized Reports, on-demand reports, ad-hoc reports and involved in analyzing multi-dimensional reports in SSRS.  • Performed Unit testing, Integration is testing and Regression testing by applying test cases.  • Work with Product management on product feature requirements definition and refinement.  • Used TFS for Agile Planning and collaboration.    Environment: Visual Studio.Net 2013, VB.Net, ASP.NET 4.5/4.0, WCF, WPF, Java Script, JQuery, XAML, AngularJS 1.0/2.0, TFS 2010, WCF, WCF REST, JSON, SOAP, IIS 7.0, AJAX, LINQ, HTML, XML, SQL Server Integration Services, NUNIT, SQL Server 2008 R2, Windows Server 2008 R2/2008. Net Developer Sutter Health - Sacramento, CA February 2015 to March 2016 Analysis, design and development of automation of Health Care System. This system reduces the manual work at Health center counters. The tasks performed by the system includes, registering patient's details, their inquiries / complaints, availability of physician's and their information, inquiry about various drugs and its corresponding stocks, its expiry date, etc. The user interface prototype was done using HTML.    Responsibilities:  • Participated in daily Scrums with the whole team to discuss about the progress of the application development, specks to be taken care and specks that already completed.  • Used ASP.NET MVC Page Controller pattern to add functionality to individual pages such that to accept input from the page request, invoke the requested actions.  • Responsible for designing the ASP.NET application authentication using .NET Framework, Model View Controller MVC and IIS security model.  • Used ASP.NET MVC framework to support the use of Dependency Injection to inject objects into a class, instead of relying on the class to create the object itself.  • Experience in working with Web API technology to create HTTP services using REST and content negotiation was done using this concept.  • Experience in working with JavaScript Frameworks like Angular JS which simplifies JavaScript object bindings with HTML Elements and client server communications.  • Worked on IOC (Inversion of Control) during isolation of the code while creating Unit tests and also used dependency injection pattern which avoids tight coupling with software components.  • Implemented WCF services and better logging, exception management support to help in the premature detection of new problems.  • Used AngularJS service like $broadcast, $emit, $root scope for data transmission between controllers.  • Created complicated reports like parameter-based reports, sub reports, well formatted reports, matrix reports, chart and tabular using SSRS 2008.  • Developed the independent RESTful WCF (Windows Communication Foundation) services and defined Service Contracts for specific functionality in project search module.  • Developed ASP.NET MVC 4 applications using Code First Approach in Entity Framework 4.0 and UI in Razor View Engine.  • Extensively used Report Wizard, Report Builder and Report Manager for developing reports and deploying reports in SSRS.  • Performed database operations on SQL Server 2012 by creating SQL queries, stored procedures, functions, indexes and views.  • Involved in Unit testing, Functionality testing, Integration testing and User Acceptance Testing (UAT) and also involved in bug fixing.    Environment: Visual Studio 2012, C#, ASP.NET 4.0/3.5, MVC 4, Razor, Angular JS 1.0, JQuery, XAML, TFS 2010, IIS 7.0, AngularJS, AJAX, ADO.NET Entity Framework 6.0, LINQ, JSON, Microsoft Enterprise Library, NUNIT, SQL Server 2008 R2, Conges Windows 7, Moq. Software Developer (.Net) Unisys India Pvt Ltd June 2012 to December 2014 Responsibilities:  • Worked on C# .NET 2.0 ASP.NET Web Applications Development and Maintenance.  • Worked on Statoil's Financial Solutions tool to create, edit or modify financial data and generates quarterly, half yearly and annual reports.  • Theoretical Knowledge on  • Worked on ADO.NET and SQL Server 2008/2005 development and integration activities.  • Worked on Web Services development and deployment in .NET 2.0  • Worked on Windows Application development in C# and maintenance activities.  • Worked on complete SDLC life cycle from Requirement gathering, Design Documents creation, Development, Deployment & Implementation.  • Worked on WCF Services and SOAP Services in .NET 3.5 and in Store Procedures.  • Worked on SQL Server 2005 mainly on creating/modifying Store Procedures & Triggers    Environment: C#, ASP.NET, SQL Server 2008/2005, Visual Studio 2008 ASP .NET, ADO .NET, .Net 2.0, JavaScript, Visual Source Safe 6.0, SOAP UI. Education Master's in Information Technology Management Campbellsville University Present Master's in computer science Northwestern Polytechnic University 2016 Skills .NET (7 years), SQL (7 years), ASP (6 years), ASP.NET (6 years), MS ASP (6 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:  Operating Systems Windows XP/2003 & Windows 7, Vista, Windows 8, Windows 10, UNIX  .Net Technologies .NET Framework 2.0/3.0/3.5/4.0/4.5, C#, ASP.NET MVC 3/4/5/6, ADO.NET, LINQ, ADO.NET Entity Framework, WCF, WF and WPF.  Web Technologies HTML4/HTML5, XML, PHP, JavaScript, jQuery, Angular JS, Knockout JS AJAX, CSS, CSS3, JSON, DHTML.  Programming languages C++, C#.NET (4.5/4.0/3.5/3.0), VB.NET (10.0/9.0/8.0), T-SQL, PL/SQL.  Databases/RDBMS  SQL Server 2005/ SQL Server 2008/ SQL Server 2008 R2/SQL SERVER 2012/SQL SERVER2014, Oracle Database, Oracle 10g/ Oracle 11g, MySQL 4/5, Oracle 8i/9i (PL/SQL), MS ACCESS    IDE Microsoft Visual Studio 2015/2013/2012/2010, SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS), Microsoft IIS.  Reporting tools Crystal Reports (2010/9/8.5/8), SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS)  Version Tools Visual Source Safe (VSS), MS TFS (VS 2008, 2010), Subversion (SVN)  Portals SharePoint 2013, SharePoint 2010, Windows SharePoint Services (WSS 3.0), BizTalk Server 2010.  Design Patterns Service Oriented Architecture (SOA), Model View Controller (MVC), Factory, Singleton, and Object-Oriented Design.