iOS Developer iOS <span class="hl">Developer</span> iOS Developer (Freelance) - City of Elgin Chicago, IL Mobile Developer with multiple apps in the app store and a strong background in CS fundamentals. Looking to transition back into software development after helping start and grow a digital marketing agency. Work Experience iOS Developer City of Elgin - Elgin, IL April 2018 to Present • Contracted to build an iOS app for the City of Elgin using Swift and an MVVM architecture.  • Integrated with a Salesforce Rest API to allow users to login, submit non-emergency 311  requests, and receive updates on those requests through push notifications.  • Integrated with the Twitter Rest API to pull tweet information and present a feed of relevant  Elgin-related tweets.  • Localized the app in both English and Spanish to serve a multilingual community.  • Wrote unit tests to help identify breaking changes early and ensure code quality.  • Implemented a cloud-based CI pipeline using fastlane to automate builds, testing, and deployment to test devices and the App Store. Director of Digital Marketing Blackbird Garage - Chicago, IL January 2016 to Present • Developed multi-channel acquisition strategies that allowed clients to quickly scale their ad  spend to six and seven-figures profitably using Facebook, Instagram, Pinterest, and Adwords.  • Managed relationships with client contacts, reported out on key insights, and led high-level  planning conversations to align all stakeholders on social strategy.  • Hired and trained a team of media buyers in acquisition strategy and managed them to ensure  we hit client goals.  • Managed relationships with ad platform and vendor contacts. Software Developer Adage Technologies - Chicago, IL March 2014 to January 2016 • Developed ecommerce websites for performing arts clients using the .NET framework,  EpiServer CMS, and Tessitura ticket management system.  • Performed requirements analysis to identify client needs and translate them into technical  specifications.  • Managed client relationships through weekly status calls and emails. Associate Software Engineer Accenture - Chicago, IL August 2013 to March 2014 • Ran test cases on ecommerce websites to ensure features met development requirements.  • Used Selenium framework to write automated test cases that reduced the time needed to test  after code deployments by 80%.  • Ran smoke tests on ecommerce websites to validate successful builds. iOS Developer Intern Linehop - Chicago, IL August 2012 to August 2013 • Built an iOS app for bowling alleys that allowed users to order food from the snack bar without leaving their lanes.   • Created a custom consumer-facing receipt printing solution using Raspberry Pis and Epson printers that allowed bowling alleys to receive their orders.  Education Bachelor's in Computer Science DePaul University - Chicago, IL August 2009 to June 2013 Skills Swift, Xcode, JIRA, Project Management