Salesforce Dev/Admin/Release Manager Salesforce Dev/Admin/Release Manager Salesforce Dev/Admin/Release Manager - Client- Hello Further • 9 Years of IT experience specialized in Analysis, Design, Development, Testing, Implementation, and maintenance of various Applications using Salesforce.com Technologies.  • Experience in Administration, Development, and Implementation on Salesforce.com platform.  • Has an extensive knowledge of Salesforce.com implementation cycle in Sales, Marketing and Service modules and has strong experiences with development, support and enhancement of Force.com custom modules  • Possesses comprehensive understanding of CRM business processes like Campaign Management, entitlements, Lead Management, Account Management, Case Management, as well as budgeting and forecasting for projects  • Has an experience in working with Bulk API, metadata API, REST API and SOAP API calls  • Worked on installation and configuration of various Apps from App exchange.  • Experience with CPQ suite of products both Apptus and Salesforce CPQ  • Proficiency in administrative tasks such as creating Profiles, Roles, Users, Page layouts, Email services, Record types, Validation rules, Approval processes, Workflows, Process builders, Custom objects, Custom fields, Custom tabs, Reports, and Dashboards.  • Experience in Salesforce development in creating Apex classes, Apex triggers, and Apex test classes, Visual force pages, Batch apex, Apex scheduler, Custom Settings, Custom Labels, SOQL and SOSL queries according to the requirements.  • Manage reports on release progress and provide a release roadmap.  • Experience in creating various Reports, Dashboards, Report extractions in various formats and Email generation according to application requirements.  • Good in analyzing business requirements and entity relationship diagrams and implementing them to Salesforce Objects, Master-detail and Look-up Relationships.  • A well-organized, goal-oriented, highly motivated effective team member with excellent analytical, troubleshooting, and problem-solving Skills.  • Flourished in both independent and collaborative work environments with quick learning abilities and excellent communication skills and presentation skills.  • Experience with development tools such as Force.com API, Eclipse IDE and integration tools such as Import Wizard, Apex Data Loader.  • Experience in applying Lightening to the existing visualforce pages.  • Experience in creating SOAP API and REST API web services and force.com external callouts.  • Experience in web technologies such as HTML, CSS, XML, Java Script, jQuery, and Ajax  • Strong knowledge & experience working in teams implementing Agile Methodologies  • Expertise in Developing WCF Services that implement the Service-Oriented Architecture (SOA).  • Proficiency in using ASP.NET intrinsic state management functionality between page requests.  • Have a good combination of technical, communication and interpersonal skills, which provide the ability to be an effective mediator between programmers, end-users and clients.  • Worked with team members for full-cycle projects such as developers, to complete consulting projects on time and develop outstanding consulting services to Salesforce.com clients.  • Have good experience of working closely with Business Analyst, Program team, QA and offshore team.  • Extensive working experience in database design and development, for creating complex database queries, writing Constraints, Indexes, Views, Stored Procedures and Functions using T-SQL and PL/SQL in SQL Server 2000/2005/2008, Oracle 8i/9i/10g.  • Experience in developing Custom Reports and different types of Tabular, Matrix, Ad-hoc and distributed reports in multiple formats using Crystal Reports and SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS). Work Experience Salesforce Dev/Admin/Release Manager Client- Hello Further - Eagan, MN February 2019 to Present Description:  Further insurers offer some form of health insurance coverage in every U.S. state. They also act as administrators of Medicare in many states or regions of the U.S. This project was initiated with the intent to advance and improve existing Healthcare Information between agent and patient.  Responsibilities:  • Worked on various Salesforce standard objects like Accounts, Contacts, Leads, Opportunities, Quotes, and Quote Line Items.  • Collaborates with application developers, designers, and architects to ensure a shared understanding of the business model and the detailed function requirements.  • Responsible for conducting technical code reviews and unit testing.  • Works with Studio BA/QA resources to support testing and perform defect fixes as needed  • Participates in studio daily scrum and project status calls to provide accurate updates on deliverable timelines and status  • Creates and manages technical documentation as required.  • Created Users, Roles, Profiles, Public Groups and implemented Role Hierarchies, Sharing Rules and record level permissions to manage sharing access among different users. Used Tab permissions, Object Level Permissions, Field Level Security, and Organization Wide Default to implement Component-based security. Provided the security and visibility of data through roles and profiles and gave premier support to the different Salesforce users upon request.  • Worked on building standard/custom report types, Reports, Dashboards and across various objects for different business groups.  • Experience in implementing the Many-to-many, Look-up and Master-Detail relationship.  • Defined, and deployed the Custom objects, Custom tabs, Entity-Relationship data model, validation rules, Workflow Rules, Auto-Response Rules, Page layouts, mini page layouts, search layouts, custom Components.  • Automating the business Processes using Approval Process, Process Builder, Escalation Rules and Auto-Response Rules.  • Created Processes to automate different tasks using Salesforce lightning process builder.  • Maintained Sandbox Environments and deployed components across different sandbox to production instances using ANT, Change Sets and Force.com Migration tool  • Experience in Writing SOQL and SOSL queries  • Developed Lightning Page on various Objects using Lightning App builder.  • Experience working on leads, case management, web-to-lead, Web-to case, Email-to-case  • Worked on Apex Triggers, Apex Class for automation of the business process on Account, Contact, Opportunity and Custom Objects  • Written SOQL, SOSL queries in apex triggers and controllers and followed best Salesforce practices for querying large data sets and to have results within the Governor Limits.  • Implemented Test Classes to cover positive and negative use cases for Classes and Triggers and achieved close to 100% coverage.  • Created trigger on case and solution object to perform some business requirements on Service cloud and sales cloud.  • Inserting bulk data in to marketing cloud objects like Campaign and leads.  • Have strong Implementation and Integration experience with Source control systems.  • Performing Risk Analysis and Cost Assessment for Project implementation.  • Created Workflow Rules, Page Layouts, Approval Process, Tasks, Email Alerts, Field Updates and Outbound Messages to manage the Workflow & Approvals in Salesforce automation.  • Implemented relationship fields for proper data loading. Have strong understanding of technology change management specifically on Waterfall to Agile.  • Implemented and configured Salesforce Lightning UI.  • Environment: Salesforce.com platform, Apex, Visual Force (Pages, Component & Controllers), Salesforce.com Data Loader, Reports, Workflow & Approvals, Sandbox, Eclipse IDE, Apex Triggers, Visual Force pages. Sr. Salesforce Developer/ Administrator EBSCO Industries, Inc - Durham, NC May 2017 to January 2019 Description:  EBSCO Provides medical content information to Physicians and Nurses using PUA (Personal user Authentication) and IP authentication to hospitals and its affiliations so that Physicians and Nurses updating their skills while treating their patients. We are also providing video's and images with clear instructions health skills.    Responsibilities:  • Interact with various business user groups to gather requirements for Salesforce implementation and document the Business and Software Requirements.  • Involved in activities related to Saleforce.com setup, Configuration, customization, Administration, Development, Data Migration and deployment of application to force.com platform.  • Create users, roles, public groups and implemented role hierarchies, sharing rules and record level permissions to provide shared access among different users.  • Develop Apex classes, Controller extensions, and Apex Triggers on Force.com platform.  • Defined, and deployed the Custom objects, Custom tabs, Entity-Relationship data model, validation rules, Workflow Rules, actions, Auto-Response Rules, Page layouts, mini page layouts, search layouts, custom Components, custom compositions, Visual Workflows (flows), custom reports, dashboards Visual Force Pages to suit to the needs of the application.  • Develop SOQL and SOSL queries and integrate them with the Apex code for querying  And searching the data.  • Create Visualforce pages to modify user interface according to the user requirements.  • Develop Cascading Style Sheets (CSS) components for creating effects in Visualforce pages.  • Apply Lightening to the various visualforce pages as and when needed.  • Write test classes, setup sandboxes for user testing, and migrated the code using migration tool.  • Integrate the Web Services for extracting the data from external systems to display in the pages of salesforce.com.  • Supported with the setup and testing in Sandbox situations to encourage achievement improvement and QA testing of new Fields and objects. Uploaded records using the Data Loader to cleanse & De-duplicating bulk loads, as well as & worked with Salesforce data tools such as Data Loader, Excel Connector, Demand Tools, & Eclipse Force.com IDE for data migration  • Implemented designed & developed Standard & Custom Apex Classes, Controllers Classes, extensions & Apex Triggers to handle business logic & used debug logs to trace the execution & used Apex Data Loader to migrate data such as accounts, campaigns  • Development of SOAP & REST based Web Services used for custom development & used WSDL to expose logic to clients.  • Created email templates and inbound emails using Visual Force for clients and customers.  • Developed SOQL and SOSL queries to get data from different related objects and Used Force.com Explorer for SOQL testing.  • Develop and configured various Custom Reports and Report Folders for different user profiles  Based on the need in the organization.  • Created and designed the configuration of Sales Cloud and Service Cloud standard objects such as Leads, Accounts, Contacts, Opportunities, Contracts, Activities, Cases and Custom Objects.  • Use Eclipse IDE and Change Set to deploy all the classes, triggers, objects, components, pages from sandbox environment to production environment.    Environment: Force.com, Apex, Data Loader, Sales cloud, Service cloud, Import Wizard, Eclipse IDE, Controllers, Visual Force Pages, XML, Triggers, Security Controls, jQuery and JavaScript SFDC Sales cloud Implementation Progressive Insurance - Cleveland, OH November 2015 to April 2017 Salesforce Admin/ Developer    Description:  Progressive Insurance is USA's consumer's #1 auto insurance company. Headquartered in Mayfield Village (Cleveland) Ohio. And also located across the country in more than 450 offices with almost 27,000 employees.    The Sales force CRM Application is implemented to improve tracking sales, sales reps and for customer support. Progressive implemented Salesforce to increase efficiency in tracking leads, opportunities, sales and customer support for its customers. Joined a team of developers and performed the roles of admin/ developer and implemented SFA to sales, and call center users.    Responsibilities:  • Designed, developed and deployed the Custom objects, Page layouts, Custom tabs, Components, Visual Force Pages, Apex classes & Triggers to suit to the needs of the application.  • Worked with functional leads to transform and develop new requirements into design, implementation.  • Working Knowledge on Sales Cloud, Service Cloud, Custom Cloud and Apex Programming on Force.com Platform.  • Defined the lookup relationship and master-detail relationship on the objects that helps in associating the record and defining a parent-child relationship in which the master object controls certain behaviors of the detail object respectively.  • Used Data Loader, Informatica cloud connector to insert, update and bulk import & export of data from Salesforce.com SObjects.  • Effectively created the pick lists, dependent pick lists and junction objects to establish the connectivity among objects.  • Perform detailed analysis of business and technical requirements and designed the solution by customizing various standard objects of SalesForce.com (SFDC) and other Platform based technologies like Visual Force, Force.com API and Web Services. Developed various custom Objects, Tabs, Components and Visual Force pages and Controllers.  • Developed SOQL and SOSL queries to get data from different related objects and Used Force.com Explorer for SOQL testing.  • Worked with Force.com IDE to develop Custom Application in both Sales and Service Cloud Modules.  • Created Impressive designs with custom styling to bring dynamic versions of the components when setting up in lightning App builder.  • Used the sandbox for testing and migrated the code to the deployment instance after testing.  • Created Salesforce 1 mobile apps using Angular JS, Bootstrap, Apex and Visual force.  • Use App Cloud mobile to instantly deploy apps to users with Salesforce1. Build user friendly and native android IOS and windows app with the mobile SDK, design and run massively.  • Responsible for controlling security and sharing of sales reports and dashboards, providing regulated, auditable cross-functional access for anyone in the organization via Cloud.  • Worked on Salesforce Community cloud like how to engage with employees, customers, and partners.  • Implementation of Salesforce Service Cloud from Business case to operation.  • Used the QA Sandbox for testing and deployed the code to the Production instance after testing.  • Performed the role of Business Analyst interacted with various business user groups for gathering the requirements for salesforce.com CRM implementation.  • Leading testing effort, test plans, and test data preparation for System Integration and UAT testing.  • Interacted with various business team members to gather and documents the requirement.  • Configured and used source control tool GIT to maintain repositories for various releases.  • Used Force.com Eclipse IDE plugin to manage, author, debug and deploy Force.com applications in the Eclipse development environment.  • Implemented Wave Analytics, created datasets, dashboards and apps for Opportunity, Accounts and Cases.  • Created custom buttons and links on Account and Relationship Group object for generating auto Reports.  • Design develop and execution of Test Cases and preparing traceability matrix to map the business analyst requirements.  • Writing test classes and checking the code by having different profiles in these classes and making sure we are covering more than 75% lines of the apex classes before pushing them into the production  Environment: Apex, Visualforce (Pages, Components, Controllers & Extensions), Data Loader, Workflow & Approvals, Triggers, Reports, AJAX, Custom Objects and Tabs, HTML, DHTML, Java Script, Web Services, WSDL and Eclipse IDE Salesforce Admin/ Developer Mylan - Pittsburgh, PA January 2013 to October 2015 Description:  Mylan has been committed to providing access to high quality medicine and setting new standards in healthcare. Mylan is a leader today in offering medications that address a range of health concerns around the world. Mylan Implemented Service Cloud for customer support that includes Case management, Entitlement and service contract, tracking bugs, etc.    Responsibilities:  • Interacted with business users/analyst to gather the requirements and prepared technical design documents based out of the requirements.  • Written SOQL & SOSL queries in the apex triggers, classes by considering Governor Limits for data manipulation and tuned queries to improve performance.  • Developed Apex Triggers, Apex Classes - Utility, Handlers, Batch and Schedule Classes for the customizations on standard and custom objects.  • Involved in Integrations of Salesforce with Siebel and Java, developed apex REST web service classes for inbound calls to Salesforce.  • Performed code reviews and refactored existing code by implementing Salesforce best practices and design patterns.  • Written Apex unit test classes to achieve minimum 75% of code coverage to migrate code to production.  • Developed salesforce1 Lightning apps, components, controllers, handlers and events in the existing organization.  • Developed Visualforce pages, Components, Apex Custom & Extension Controllers on Opportunity, Contact and Custom Objects for business user requirements.  • Used Visualforce standard components Page Block, Page Block Table, Page Messages, Action Region, Output Panel, Command Button, Action Support and Action Function.  • Customized publisher layouts, Compact Layouts for salesforce1.  • Worked on customization of Salesforce Standard objects - Accounts, Contacts, Leads, Opportunities, Opportunity Products, Products, and Price books, Cases, Entitlement and Activities.  • Designed and created Custom Objects, Fields (Formula, Roll-up, Dependent picklist), and Tabs, Record Types, Validation rules, Custom Links/Buttons and relationships using Lookup, Master- Detail and Junction Object.  • Configured Workflow rules, Approval Processes and associated actions like Email Alert, Field Update, Outbound Message, Creating Tasks and Time dependent actions.  • Created Assignment, Escalation, and Auto-Response rules on Lead and Case object for business automation.  • Created communication Email Templates, Letterheads in HTML, Text and Visualforce pages.  • Created various Reports (Tabular, Summary, Matrix and Joined), Dashboards and analytic snapshot.  • Deployed components using Force.com Migration tool/Workbench by building package.xml, Change Sets and Eclipse.  • Worked as Production Support to help end-users with Integration Issues, Data Migration, Reports, Dashboards, Page Layout and other issues.    Environment: Saleforce.com CRM, Apex Language (Controllers - Custom and Extension, Test classes, Batch and Schedule), Visualforce (Pages, Components), Triggers, Salesforce1 Lightning, Email Handler Services, Web Services, SOAP, WSDL, REST, Sales, Service Cloud, Custom Objects, Data loader, Informatica, Workflow, Process Builder, Approval Process, Reports, Dashboard, Eclipse IDE (Force.com Plug-in), Developer Console, Workbench, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery. Software Administrator New York Post, NY February 2012 to December 2012 Responsibilities:  • Implemented and designed user interface for web based customer application.  • Played a major role in Requirement Analysis, and creating Web GUI using ASP.NET.  • Installed, administered and secured SQL Server on Server and Clients.  • Designed and implemented logical and physical data models using Visio and Erwin. Created database objects like tables, views, indexes etc.  • Worked with customers performing scope, design, development and deployment of Web applications using C#.NET, ADO.NET, MS SQL Server 2005.  • Design User Interface for the project using HTML, CSS, and Flash.  • Provided consultation to development teams. Documented SQL Server architecture and overall system network diagrams using Visio. Monitored Database using system tools.  • Set up CVS source control to check in and check out the code on the client side.  • Developed stored procedures, views and triggers for data manipulation.  • Prepared Application Technical and Design document  • Involved in Code Review, Unit testing, Debugging and Integration Testing of the application.  • Responsible for assuring code quality (adherence to coding best practices, design and coding standards) through detailed code reviews  • Involved in Unit Testing, Integration Testing and System testing.    Environment: C# 3.5/3.0/2.0, ASP.NET, ADO.NET, HTML, CSS, SQL Server 2005, CVS, MS Visual Studio.NET2005 and Altova XML Spy. Software Developer Balboa Insurance - Irvine, CA August 2010 to January 2012 Description:  Balboa insurance is the one of the Insurance providers, they are providing Auto insurance and Home insurance and other insurances like CPI, LPI and REO source. The Claims Management system is a collection of windows application, windows service and web services, getting the input from SIEBEL application and process the data based on the business needs and sends to the downstream systems like people soft and PAC and extreme, and returns the acknowledgement XML to Siebel.    The CMS handles the Print job, a fax job secured email job and sends, and providing the MIS reports to the management. Creating Claims pdf documents and committing those documents into the documentum using .NET coding, and passing the xml with the Documentum id to Siebel downstream application.    Responsibilities:  • Played a major role in Requirement Analysis, and creating Web GUI using ASP.NET.  • Work with customers performing scope, design, development and deployment of Web applications using C#.NET, ADO.NET, MS SQL Server.  • Worked with Business Analyst's and Project managers to drive out requirements and implemented an elegant solution to the task at hand.  • Coding the presentation layer using WPF and silver light and service layer using Windows Communication foundation technology.  • Used Data Grids, Data Sets, Data Views and Data Adaptors to extract data from the backend.  • Create web service and WCF and hosting that into the server  • Worked on the Documentum, File net and raster master.  • Played a major role in developing business services using .NET technology.  • Set up CVS source control to check in and check out the code on the client side.  • Developed stored procedures, views and triggers for data manipulation.  • Prepared Application Technical and Design document  • Created Database objects like Tables, Stored Procedures and Triggers in SQL Server 2008.  • Used ADO.NET objects such as Data Reader, Data Adapter and Data Set to object data source fetch and handle user data.  • Responsible for maintaining versions of source code using Team Foundation Server.  • Involved in Code Review, Unit testing, Debugging and Integration Testing of the application.  • Responsible for assuring code quality (adherence to coding best practices, design and coding standards) through detailed code reviews    Environment: C#, ASP.NET, ADO.NET, WCF, WPF, Silverlight, SQL Server, MS Visual Studio.NET2005, Altova XML Spy, Documentum, Extreme server, FileNet server, Web services, Remoting. Education Bachelor of Technology in Technology Nagarjuna University - Guntur, Andhra Pradesh Skills Api, Ms project, Visio, Xml, Eclipse, Java, Java technologies, Spring, Jms, jquery, Jsp, Jstl, Servlets, Ajax, Sharepoint, Force.com, Apex, Data migration, Data modeling, Jdbc Links http://Salesforce.com Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Salesforce Technologies Apex, SOQL, SOSL, Visualforce (Pages, Component & Controllers), Triggers, Custom Object, Salesforce Lightening &Web services.  Salesforce Integration Veeva CRM, Pardot, Apex Data Loader, Force.com Apex Explorer, Evernote, Work, Force.com Migration Tool, Informatica  Web Technologies HTML5, CSS3, XML, AJAX, Java Script, jQuery, SOAP, REST API  Data Migration Tools  Salesforce Analyst Skills    Data Loader, Salesforce Import & Export Wizard, Workbench, Dataloader.io  Design Documentation and Specification, Workflow Diagrams, Use Case diagrams, Change Management, Business Process Modeling, Data Modeling, Requirement matrix, Requirement Prioritization, User Stories, Impact Analysis, Client Interaction, Team Coordination, UAT, Test Cases    Databases MS Access, Oracle 9, SQL Server 2005/2008, MySQL  Operating Systems Windows Server 2000/2003/2008, Linux, Unix  Java Technologies Java, Spring, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, JSTL, JMS.  Other Tools Eclipse, MS Excel, MS Word, MS PowerPoint, MS Project, MS Outlook, MS SharePoint, MS Visio, Rational Clear Case.