Software Developer and Programmer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> and Programmer Software Developer and Programmer Aurora, IL Knowledgeable in MS SQL Server, SSRS,SSIS. Effective multitasker capable of finding dynamic solutions for software issues. Technical  professional experienced in entire Dynamics AX software development lifecycle.  Knowledgeable in development, troubleshooting, step debug and deployment proficiency in  Dynamics365 for Operations and AX 2012. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Software Developer and Programmer Columbus US Inc 2015 to June 2019 • Senior SQL programmer. Strong on design and logic side for Queries, triggers, stored  procedures, views, functions, jobs  • SSRS, SSIS ETL Package  • ERP Developer for Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012 and Dynamics 365 for Operations  • responsible for design, development and deployment.   • deployment (asset library for D365 and XPO, axmodel for AX 2012)  • 4 Years X++ experience  • Working with functional consultant create FDDs  • Customize, extend, and modify existing functionalities, forms and reports by using CoC  and event handler  • Integration. Data transferring from different software/database to AX  • Customize Entities and create new Entities for migrating data  • Customize existing reports and create new reports  • DIXF, DMF and X++ code import in AX 2012  • Create runBase, runBaseBatch  • Using VS communicate with AX 2012  • Adding custom financial Dimensions in excel  template(LedgerJournalLineEntryTemplate) Software Developer and programmer Lanac Technology - Chicago, IL 2012 to 2015 Senior programmer for Microsoft Dynamics GP - create, alternate forms, windows,  functionality of ERP system of Microsoft Dynamics GP. Strong on platform Dexterity and Sanscript for Microsoft Dynamics GP, GP.NET, GPWebservice, and Workflow.  • Integration Manager  • Senior SQL programmer.  • SSRS report. Design and create logic for SSRS reports  • C#.NET. Winform for PO transaction, file generation  • Web service. Teaching Assistant Loyola University Chicago September 2010 to 2011 Dept. of Computer Science, Loyola University Chicago    • Helped students to set up IDEs and provide technical & troubleshooting support  • Tutored students for Java, Python programming Education M.S. in Computer Science in Information Technology Loyola University of Chicago - Chicago, IL December 2011 B.A in Mathematics in Computer Science University of Wisconsin - Superior, WI May 2010 Skills .net (7 years), database (7 years), Dynamics AX (4 years), Microsoft dynamics GP (7 years), Sql (7 years), MYSQL (7 years) Additional Information MS AX7 Development certificate