Web Developer & Business Analyst Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> &amp; Business Analyst Web Developer & Business Analyst - Bitochon Technologies Staten Island, NY A mid level programmer and business analyst with 5+ years of experience in software development industry gained by leading and successfully delivering several complex, high-end projects.    Software Development Projects:    ? Experienced in software development, website development, testing, QA, UAT.  ? Solid knowledge and experience in coding, testing and debugging.  ? Working experience with live website development/troubleshooting and error handling.  ? Experience in Asp. Net C#, C, C++ application development  ? Experience in Cold Fusion 9.0-10.0/HTML/C/C++/C#/Javascript website development and maintenance.  ? Experience in database programming, worked with SQL Server 2005-2008/MySQL.  ? Good understanding of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC)  ? Demonstrated ability to quickly grasp a new technology and apply it to the project.    Business Analyst Experience and Skills:  ? Experience in understanding client business, identifying the objectives and needs and building strong relationships with clients  ? Able to identify the need to change, problem identification and able to make good decisions as required  ? Extremely self-motivated, hardworking, with outstanding ability and willingness to learn quickly through self-motivation.  ? Organized and able to plan meeting, review meeting with clients and training clients at the end of projects  ? A strong team player with good technical and inter-personal skills, yet also have the ability to work on my own in self-directed environments  ? Excellent analytical, problem solving skills  ? Excellent communication, presentation and inter-personal skills Work Experience Web Developer & Business Analyst Bitochon Technologies - Staten Island, NY March 2012 to Present Projects:  ? Gathering requirements from client and delivering to the development team  ? Arranging review meetings with clients and developers to facilitate the process of development and changes  ? Identifying client requirements and suggesting efficient solutions for the need.  ? Validating user requirements by testing and client meetingd  ? Training clients for using CMS for content management websites    ? Maintaining and updating web sites after development  ? Testing shopping carts and content management websites in Word Press, Open Cart and Magento  ? Programming and coding dynamic website using cold fusion, JavaScript and html.  ? Trouble shooting and debugging  ? Technical support and providing necessary assistance to clients for the issues appearing in websites Programmer ASP.Net C# Its-your-Internet - Queens, NY September 2010 to November 2010 Projects:  ? Review POC samples and extracting unique information for Database designing.  ? Extract unique data fields from the Sample Claims POCs.  ? Design and Create Tables in SQL 2008  ? Installing SQL 2008 instances for development environment  ? Debugging and coding using ASP.Net C# and  ? Requirement Analysis with direct client meetings Programmer ASP Net C - Teaneck, NJ April 2010 to August 2010 Projects:    ? Designing and coding of winforms using ASP.Net C#  ? Design Review POC samples and extracting unique information for Database designing.  ? Implementing 3- tier Architecture for a mail sending business application  ? Testing and Debugging in Visual Studio  ? Designing and development of class member methods to read merger letter application  ? Updating data for the city services database on daily basis Website Developer ASP Net C - Staten Island, NY September 2009 to February 2010 Projects:    ? Requirement analysis and mapping of conventional systems to new website  ? Developed Web Pages and code behind using ASP.NET (MASTER PAGES) and C#.NET  ? Developed site navigation using Menus, Tree View and website maps  ? Used Windows Authorization and Authentication.  ? Developed and Designed Web Pages using Grid View Control, Data List, Dataset and DataTables.  ? Used JavaScript for confirmation and alert messages  ? Read/Write data to text file  ? Implemented the 3-tier architecture and class library designed to interact with the Database.  ? Designed and developed the database tables using SQL server 2005  ? Used .Net mail client for receiving and sending order mails  ? Exceptional handling remotely by Trouble shooting and debugging  ? Developed invoice reports using Crystal Reports 10.5  ? Tested the application using Unit Testing and bug fixing  ? Perform remote desktop support to assist outsourced teams and clients with general computer problems Software Developer ASP Net C June 2009 to August 2009 Projects:  ? Requirement analysis and creating specification document  ? Developed Web Pages and code behind using ASP.NET (MASTER PAGES) and C#.NET  ? Converted legacy code and UI forms designed in VB6 to ASP.Net web forms  ? Involved in Developing Framework, Use Cases and Class Diagrams by using UML  ? Developed internal application which has to be sent to the representatives based upon WinForms  ? Designed and developed the database tables, triggers, stored procedures using SQL server 2005  ? Enhanced existing internal and external .Net applications/Systems to incorporate better use of Design Patterns and reporting  ? Developed as well as consumed web services an implementation of a web service.  ? Tested the application using Unit Testing  ? Perform 3rd level tech support via telephone or in-house software, in order to assist the outsourced teams with internal system errors or complex billing questions  ? Perform remote desktop support to assist outsourced teams and clients with general computer problems