Salesforce Developer Salesforce <span class="hl">Developer</span> Salesforce Developer - Global Foundries Santa Clara, CA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Salesforce Developer Global Foundries - Santa Clara, CA September 2016 to Present Responsibilities  • Extensively worked on customizing case management by creating Assignment rules, Auto response and escalationrules.  • Implemented Web-to-case and Email-to-casefunctionalities.  • Extensively worked on Apex Triggers, and Emailservices.  • Worked on integration of two instances using Apex REST APIcallouts  • Implemented REST Endpoint Apex classes for inboundwebservices.  • Created data categories for articles and setup articles forinternationalization.  • Translated Email templates, visualforce pages, custom objects/fields using Custom labels and Translationworkbench  • Build Force.com sites and customer portal and setup single sign on between instances using OAuth2authentication and connectedapp.  • Written Triggers, Apex classes, Batch and schedulejobs.  • Setup Live Agent as part of case management implementation inside servicecloud.  • Worked with globalusers.  • Validation rules were created to ensure the required data is captured in thefields.  • Deployed code using ant and stored code in Perforce version controlrepository.  • Automated post sandbox refreshsteps.  • Developed and deployed Managed package into variousorgs.  • Involved in data cleanup and mapping in data migrationproject.  • Customized Escalation rules and Assignment Rules to customobjects.  • Design and developed Role Hierarchy  Environment: Apex, Visual Force Pages, Lightning, Workflow & Approvals, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Page Layouts, Email Services, Security models, HTML, Web Services, WSDL,SOAP, Reports, Sandbox, Eclipse IDE Plug-in. Salesforce Developer /Administrator MRC Global - Charleston, WV December 2015 to August 2016 Responsibilities:  • Worked on various salesforce.com standard objects like Accounts, Contacts, Leads and Opportunities.  • Worked on Visualforce pages and Triggers according to requirement.  • Worked on the Sales Cloud Implementation and Customization.  • Involved new salesforce.com features and functions (new screens, workflow, force.com objects, and reports, apex code) to meet business requirements.  • Created users, permission sets and record level permissions to manage sharing access among different users.  • Worked with Organization Wide Defaults, Role Hierarchies, Sharing Rules and Manual Sharing to implement Record-based sharing.  • Worked with Profiles and Administrative permissions to grant/deny users access to platform features.  • Created workflow rules and defined related tasks, email alerts, and field updates.  • Used Force.com developer toolkit including Apex Classes, Apex Controllers and Apex Triggers to develop custom business logic.  • Debug Apex scripts using Debug Logs and System Log Console to catch Exceptions and execute governor Limits.  • Deployed Apex using Force.com IDE, Force.com Migration Tool and Web Services API.  • Used Pick lists, Dependent Pick lists, Record Types to enforce data quality.  • Used Tab permissions, Record Type permissions and Field Level Security to implement Component-based security.  • Developed Unit test class for Apex class and worked for improving code coverage.  • Used Tabular, Summary and Matrix reports to create Standard reports and Custom reports.  • Designed and modified Approval processes and created Approval steps which used email alerts and field updates.  • Worked with senior team members to analyze of each product and its competitor, to integrate new product, and optimize existing products.  • Worked on data migration from databases to SFDC using Data Loader.  • Worked with Formula fields for calculation, related object display, integration and data realization.  • Worked with Setup Audit Trail to gather information about client usage.  • Created LLD for the code refactoring.  • Worked on the day to day issues on old requirements.  • Used the sandbox for testing and deployed the code to the different instances after testing.  • Worked in agile methodology  Environment: Apex, Visual Force Pages, Lightning, Workflow & Approvals, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Page Layouts, Email Services, Security models, HTML, Web Services, WSDL, SOAP, Reports, Sandbox, Eclipse IDE Plug-in. Salesforce Developer Avaya Inc - Dallas, TX January 2015 to November 2015 Responsibilities  • Designed, developed and deployed Apex Classes, Controller Classes and Apex Triggers for various functional needs in theapplication.  • Performed detailed analysis of business and technical requirements and designed the solution by customizing various standard objects of Salesforce.com (SFDC) and using other Platform based technologies like Visualforce, Force.com, and WebServices.  • Written Apex batch and Scheduled classes to process large volume of data on a periodicbasis.  • Created various Reports (summary reports, matrix reports, pie charts, dashboards and graphics) and Report Folders to assist managers to better utilize Salesforce as a sales tool and configured various Reports for different user profiles based on the organization'sneed.  • Worked on minor enhancements to SFDC application required by business users from time totime.  • Involved in Salesforce.com Application Setup activities and customized the apps to match the functional needs of theorganization.  • Interacted with various business users groups gather the requirements for Salesforce Implementation and documented therequirements.  • Worked on supporting tickets in the following areas: Roles, Profiles, Access Settings, Workflow Rules, Validations, creation and modification of fields and page layouts, upload ofdata.  • Involved in creating, monitoring, and measuring campaigns with Salesforce CRMMarketing.  • Knowledge in Lighting App Builder and LightningComponents.  • Integrating separate but related apps helps organizations achieve greater levels of operational consistency, efficiency, andquality.  • Deployed the code developed in the Dev Sandbox to the Test Sandbox and the Productionsandbox.  • Involved in Unit Testing, for the customizations and developments done during theproject.  • Interacted with testing and the development teams for the development and testing of thecode.  • Resolve the Cases and support the team on urgent bases, implementation and working with real-time troubleshooting.  • Communicating regularly with the SFDC designated super users to support them in their role and provide information and training on new features and functionality  Environment: Apex, Visual Force Pages, Workflow & Approvals, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Page Layouts, Email Services, Security models, HTML, Web Services, WSDL,SOAP, Reports, Sandbox, Eclipse IDE Plug-in. Salesforce Developer Hasten Technologies - Bengaluru, Karnataka August 2012 to November 2014 Responsibilities:  • Worked closely with Business analysts, other developers involved in enhancement of business modules using force.com IDE, APEX classes, Triggers, Test Methods and writing SOQLqueries.  • Designed and developed SFA based application on force.com platform in Salesforce.com environment with Apex programming language at backend and Visualforce pages as userinterface.  • Involved in design and development of custom visualforce search pages on Accounts and Opportunities and visualforcecontrollers.  • Performed detailed analysis of business and technical requirements and designed the solution by customizing various objects of salesforce and using other platform based technologies like visualforce, force.com and webservices.  • Designed and developed Apex classes, controller classes and Apex test classes for various functional needs in theapplication.  • Worked extensively on Roles, Profiles and Accesssettings.  • Worked closely with UAT team and SIT team in clarifying and resolving any issues while implementing projects  Environment: Force.com Platform, Apex, Visual Force, Data loader, Java, Security Controls, SOQL, SOSL, Windows 07. Software Engineer ESN Technologies - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2010 to August 2012 Responsibilities:  • Developed an Order Management, Product Management and Pricingmodules.  • Requirements gathering, analysis, design and testing of the completesystem  • Developed a web-based reporting system with JSP andApache.  • Created messages from the uploaded data and transaction data and sending this information using SOAP.  • Creating SQL queries to fetchdatabases  • Involved in the analysis & design of theapplication  • Performed unit testing usingJUnit.  • Developed and deployed applications using Web Logic 7.x with JBuilder as IDEtool.  • JSP, HTML, Javascript, CSS and Ajax used for front enddevelopment  • Eclipse was used for Rapid Development of theapplication.  • Involved in Bug fixing of various modules that were raised by the Testing teams in the application during the Integration testingphase  • Responsible for fixing the production issues and supported the application after pushing to the production  Environment: HTML, JavaScript, Struts, Springs, CSS, XML, Apache Tomcat 6, Java, J2EE, JSP, Servlets 3 Education Bachelor's Skills Apex (5 years), HTML (5 years), Java (4 years), Web Services (3 years), Workflow (3 years), Apex, Visual Force Pages, Lightning, Workflow & Approvals, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Page Layouts, Email Services, Security models, HTML, Web Services, WSDL,SOAP, Reports, Sandbox, Eclipse IDE Plug-in. (8 years) (8 years), Salesforce, Soql, Visualforce, COM, SFDC Additional Information Technical Skills    Salesforce Technology  Salesforce SFA, Apex Language, Apex, Lightning, Salesforce CRM, Classes/Controllers, Apex Triggers, SOQL, SOSL, Visual Force Pages / Components, Apex Web Services, Workflow & Approvals, Analytic Snapshots, Case Management Automation.    Data Bases MS SQL Server 2000/2005, SSRS, DTS, PL/SQL, Oracle 8i/9i/10g, MS Access, and MySQL, RDBMS.    Technologies C, C++, C#, Java, Java Script, WCF, Silverlight, LINQ, SQL, UML, HTML, XML, XHTML, DHTML.