Software Engineer <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Software Engineer Secaucus, NJ An enthusiastic and creative developer experienced in software development, computer science and systems engineering research. Enjoy solving problems and provide solutions by building new tools while exploring new technologies. Looking for a software development/systems engineering position. Work Experience Software Engineer Systems Engineering Research Center - Hoboken, NJ May 2014 to December 2018 - Developed platform and tools for an online systems engineering training and assessment environment implemented in Java, Angular, HTML5, Websocket and MySQL.  - Lead and managed the development team across multiple disciplines, communicate with sponsors and researchers.   - Performed Full-stack duties in an agile development environment.  - Used machine learning and data visualization tools implemented in C#, WPF and Python with Schikit-Learn to optimize the competency assessment approaches. Researcher Stevens Institute of Technology 2012 to 2013 Graphical Concept of Operation Development Environment  - Conducted research on implementation approaches and UX design for the project  - Designed and implemented a 3D CONOPS composition environment with APIs for inter- application use cases using Unity3D with C#, JavaScript and CouchDB. Developed libraries  that translate graphical CONOPS designs to SysML using C# and Sparx Enterprise Architect SDK. Lead Developer Beijing University of Technology - Beijing November 2008 to May 2010 UMail Informed Delivery System for Campus Postal Notification  - Designed and Developed a cloud-based postal notification system for postal mails on campus  using Azure, C#, ASP.Net, Silverlight and SQL Server  - Managed development team and cooperate with external teams on OCR-based input devices    RESEARCH Automated assessment of systems engineering competencies using realistic simulation  experience, with cited conference and journal publications.    OTHERS Published mobile apps with over a hundred thousand downloads and 4.3-star reviews    Available September 2019 Education Ph.D. in Systems Engineering Stevens Institute of Technology 2019 Master of Science in Computer Science Stevens Institute of Technology 2012 Bachelor of Science in Software Engineering Beijing University of Technology 2010 Skills .net framework, C#, C++, Javascript, .net core, WCF, Python, Ruby, Couchdb, Mongodb, Database, Sql server, WPF, Java, Jsp, HTML 5, Amazon EC2, Asp, Angular, Mysql, Swift, iOS, CSS, Git, websocket (3 years)