Senior Software Engineer, Fans Senior <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer, Fans Senior Software Engineer, Fans - COX MEDIA GROUP Smyrna, GA I have over 5+ years of Full Stack web development. A good majority of my experience comes from working with WordPress and building high quality Front-end experiences. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Software Engineer, Fans COX MEDIA GROUP November 2015 to Present As the lead engineer of the Innovation Team, I help manage a team of developers, designers and product managers to create and deploy new technology features for different brand websites and applications. This includes facilitating new brand full website launches, new brand technology feature launches, code commit checking, testing and pushing updates to Github, daily team stand ups, project scopes from start to finish including timelines and process maps. This also includes working with 3rd party vendors, implement software for data tracking and brand analytics.  List of implementations to date: Rarecountry.com Migration, Rare Country Cracker Barrel CMA Fest Ads Takeover, altdriver.com newsfeed A/B testing, The Rare Country Awards (first all-digital awards experience to honor 2016s best in country music), test, Python data dashboard from Google analytics API data, Rare Local Chicago and Houston launch, Mandammit.com launch, Clarkdeals.com launch, Multiple Rare.us redesigns and redevelopments  Notable Accomplishments & Achievements:  ? Using PHP, JavaScript, and Gulp, I built and managed the technical migration of the Rare Country brand vertical to its own unique website, RareCountry.com. Originally a segment of Rare.us, Rare Country's popularity and success warranted the creation of its own dedicated site. In addition to building the new site, I also supported the content migration efforts. During this migration, I successfully accommodated late-stage requirement changes from the primary ad sponsor, including a full-page ad and two banner ads across the new site homepage and article page. I was able to set these ads up quickly using JavaScript, PHP and CSS to help meet the short deadline. (June 2017)  ? Learned Python, with no prior experience, to help build out a data dashboard of Google analytics data for sessions and page view per sessions. This involved tapping into 5 different brand websites to access the Google analytics data from the Google Analytics API, storing this data into multiple Mongo databases and then using Jinja 2 to display the data in a dashboard format. (December 2016)  ? Worked overtime with the design team to help implement brand design architecture and lead development for the first all-digital awards experience to honor 2016s best in country music. Using JavaScript and browser cookies, I created a voting polling system that was used to track votes for multiple musicians in multiple categories over a three to four week period. To accommodate a smooth voting experience, a series of JavaScript modals would allow users to seamlessly vote multiple times and share each vote to a variety of different social channels without a page load. These results were tallied together to award country music artists, such as Blake Shelton, their perspective awards per the award category. (2016)  ? Lead all development for Clarkdeals.com and worked with the Clark team project and product managers to meet a strict go live date. Used the savings.com API to power product deal pages for brands such as Costco and Best Buy using JavaScript, PHP and Gulp as the task/build runner. (February 2016) COX MEDIA GROUP - Atlanta, GA February 2014 to Present Software Engineer COX MEDIA GROUP February 2014 to November 2015 Responsible for taking over Rare.us website development from a contracted, outsourced company in Chicago. This involved becoming the sole developer, leading all technical new builds and maintenance on the website for 2+ years. During this time, I had responsibility for all development, design, architecture, maintenance, feature deploys, 3rd party ad control, and analytics. From the website's success, a subsidiary company, Fans 1st LLC, was formed under CMG, growing from 5 employees to over 50. This also led to the formation of other CMG brand sites as well as inheriting other CMG brands looking to leverage the media platform I created and built for Rare.us. I was able to achieve these milestones while working remotely and without a fully-staffed development team to share the load.    Notable Accomplishments & Achievements:  ? Took over the development from a 3rd party vendor and was the sole developer for 2+ years. Once the site achieved major success, additional developers and supporting team was built up.  ? Helped Rare.us go from hundreds of page views, to thousands, and then to over 100,000 unique visits per day  ? From the success of the website this helped form Fans 1st LLC which is a subsidiary company of CMG.  ? Lead multiple initiatives to decrease page load times by removing legacy PHP, JavaScript and CSS.  ? Upgraded from using Compass to Gulp as a task/builder  ? Successfully upgraded to PHP7  ? Helped gather data and analytics from Google analytics A/B testing.  ? Used PHP and JavaScript to build back-end admin UI components, like an easy drag and drop list of authors to attach or remove from an article.  ? Used PHP, JavaScript and HTML5 to build many front-end features like content sliders, infinite scrolling, sharing widgets, and subscribe forms. Web Developer Koncept Design Studios February 2012 to February 2014 Using PHP, JavaScript, HTML5 and CSS3, I built and maintained medium-size websites for property management companies and residential/apartment communities. I worked alongside sales and design teams to build customer-facing sites, featuring detailed floor-plan pages, resident log-in portals, etc. I served as the lead developer on a small team of three developers, mentoring and providing daily guidance on coding standards and best practices. Web Developer Gowebmomma.com January 2010 to February 2012 Education Bachelor of Arts in English SAINT LEO UNIVERSITY - Saint Leo, FL May 2006 Skills JAVASCRIPT (5 years), PHP (5 years), HTML5 (3 years), PYTHON (1 year), Git (Less than 1 year) Additional Information KEY SKILLS & COMPETENCIES  PHP, WordPress, WordPress VIP Hosting, HTML5, CSS3, npm, jQuery, JavaScript, ES6, React, Redux, Babel, Webpack, Gulp, Python, MongoDB, Git, Git SVN, Heroku, Node.js