IOS Specialist IOS Specialist IOS Specialist - Tringapps Inc US • 7 years of experience in the area of application development for mobiles which includes understanding requirement specification, working on software design, coding, testing and maintenance.  • Experienced of working on iOS platform and frameworks and customizing it as per requirements.  • Expertise in using Design patterns and object-oriented methodologies to design software for mobile phones.  • Experienced with Apple Approval Distribution Process, AdHoc Enterprise distribution.  • Experience of iPhone mobile application development and testing on device and simulator using XCode and Objective C  • Proficient with Objective-C or Swift (depending on project requirements), and Cocoa Touch  • Involved in various parse level application and well aware of parsing of XML and JSON formatted services for iPhone and iPad.  • Worked on various architectures such as MVC, MVVM, Singleton, Delegate and Observer patterns.  • Experience in handling RESTFUL Web Services.  • Expertise with Agile/SCRUM and Extreme Programming SDLC methodologies such as Test Driven Development (TDD), Continuous Integration, Iterative development and Pair Programming  • Worked on latest versions of iOS 11 and XCode 9, well versed with latest changes in the industry.  • Having deep Knowledge of Swift programming language.  • Proficient in designing, Architecture and developing applications using Android Software Development Kit (SDK) versions 2.2 - 7.0 (Froyo - Nougat) using Android studio and Eclipse.  • Proficient in Android applications development involving User Interface development, Activity, Fragment, Notifications, Adapters, Content Provider, Services, XML and JSON Parsing, Animations, SQLite and Google Maps API.  • Proficient in Java, Object Oriented Design, Design Patterns, multi-threading and memory management specific to mobile devices.  • Experience of submitting application to Google Play Store and good knowledge of the distribution process.  • Knowledge of professional software engineering practices and best practices for the full software development life cycle, including coding standards, code reviews, source control management, build processes, testing, and operations.  • Experience using version control system software such as SVN, JIRA, GitHub, GitLab, Bitbucket.  • A strong goal-oriented team player, self-initiative with high-degree of technical adoptability and steep learning curve. Work Experience IOS Specialist Tringapps Inc January 2017 to Present Project 1- UBS CDX(Client Digital Experience)  Client: UBS Financial Services Inc.  Role: Sr. iOS Developer  App Store Link: https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/ubs-cdx/id1438102007?mt=8  Project Description  The UBS CDX app lets you use intuitive tools to set future milestones, get news and insights relevant to your unique perspective, view your account details, and contact your Financial Advisor, among other features.  Some of the app's features include:  • Wealth dashboard: a one-stop, aggregated view of your financial life  • Milestones: an interactive timeline to help you plan for the future  • Personalization: an app experience based on your unique outlook and relationships  • Advisor Connect: an easy way to contact your Financial Advisor with just one click  • Wealth education: our on-going educational series for a holistic view of wealth  • Support: easy access to a helpline number and app feedback    Responsibilities  • Develop an iOS application using MVVM architecture along with RxSwift and RxCocoa.  • Integrated JTAppleCalendar library into an application.  • Interacting with the UI/UX teams to improve user experience of an application and implementing custom user interface  • Working on integrating REST web services to implement client-server communication and parsing of JSON responses received from server to display content on iPad.  • Used source versioning tools like Source Tree and GitHub to manage the source code across different teams and developers.  • Tracking and reporting activities, including testing end results, discovered defects and status updates on a daily basis by using JIRA.  • Writing unit test cases to cover core functionality.  • Fixed defects and crashes notified by the quality assurance team.    Environment & Tools Used: iOS 11, Swift 4, XCode 10, RxSwift, RxCocoa    Project 2- 7NOW  Client: 7- Eleven, Inc.  Role: Sr. iOS Developer  App Store Link: https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/7now/id1316244211?mt=8  Project Description  Delivery or pickup on a wide selection of items near you. Browse anything from Slurpee® and Big Gulp® drinks, pizza and wings, even beer and wine (21 years or older of course).  Each 7-Eleven® store is unique, so select a store you would like for either delivery or pickup and browse the menu. Easily view your order and confirm at checkout.    Responsibilities  • Integrated an Accessibility feature in an existing App to make it ADA (Americans with Disabilities Act) compliance  • Fixed defects and crashes notified by the UAT (User Acceptance Testing) & QA (Quality Assurance) team.  • Code review to maintain the code quality.  • Optimized existing modules and improved performance.  • Developed a POC for Integration of an Apple Pay.    Environment & Tools Used: iOS 10, Swift 3, XCode 8, Agile    Project 3- CONTOUR DIABETES app  Client: Ascensia Diabetes Care, Tarrytown, New York, USA  Role: Sr. iOS Developer  App Store Link: https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/contour-diabetes-app-us/id1173950283?mt=8  Project Description  The new CONTOUR(TM)DIABETES app syncs with the CONTOUR®NEXT ONE smart meter for seamless blood glucose (BG) monitoring. This easy-to-use app can give you a better understanding of how your daily activities affect your BG results to help you manage your diabetes. with the new CONTOUR DIABETES app, you can easily and conveniently capture all your BG readings to help you manage your diabetes, smarter.    Responsibilities  • Added new features to an existing app.  • Designed and developed the whole architecture and Apple's new Contacts framework for the application  • Fixed defects and crashes notified by the UAT (User Acceptance Testing) & QA (Quality Assurance) team.  • Developed a POC which connects Glucose meter with iOS device over Bluetooth using Swift.  • Use of Agile, eXtreme (paired programming, TDD, Continuous integration) for automation of operations  • Optimized existing modules and improved performance.    Environment & Tools Used: iOS 10, Swift 3, XCode 8, Agile Systems Engineer Tata Consultancy Services - New York, NY March 2016 to December 2016 USA  Role: Sr. iOS Developer  App Store Link: https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/acrotracker/id652123144?mt=8  Project Description  Track how the 5 symptoms of acromegaly (sweating, swelling, headaches, fatigue, and joint pain) are affecting you each day. Track your injections to help you and your doctor recognize patterns about when and how you treat.    Responsibilities  • Fixed defects and crashes notified by the UAT (User Acceptance Testing) & QA (Quality Assurance) team.  • Agile Deliveries based on eXtreme Processes (Paired Programming, TDD, Customer Participation)  • Worked with Autolayout and Size Classes to make an existing app compatible for all screen sizes.  • Used Core Data for storing data locally on device.  • Performed memory leak testing and allocation testing using instruments tool.    Environment & Tools Used: iOS 9, Swift 2, XCode 7, Agile    Project 2- Acrotracker Canada  Client: Pfizer Inc. New York, USA  Role: Sr. iOS Developer  App Store Link: https://itunes.apple.com/ca/app/acrotracker-canada/id888055616?mt=8  Project Description  Track how the 5 symptoms of acromegaly (sweating, swelling, headaches, fatigue, and joint pain) are affecting you each day. Track your injections to help you and your doctor or nurse recognize patterns about when and how you treat your acromegaly. This app is not intended for patients solely on oral medications for acromegaly. Have more productive conversations with your doctor or nurse by sharing symptom and injection reports you generated.    Responsibilities  • Fixed defects and crashes notified by the UAT (User Acceptance Testing) & QA (Quality Assurance) team.  • Worked with Autolayout and Size Classes to make an existing app compatible for all screen sizes.  • Used Core Data for storing data locally on device.  • Performed memory leak testing and allocation testing using instruments tool.    Environment & Tools Used: iOS 9, Swift 2, XCode 7    Project 3- Tateem  Client: Pfizer Inc. New York, USA  Role: Sr. iOS Developer  App Store Link: https://itunes.apple.com/om/app/tateem/id804207488?mt=8  Project Description  Tateem is an immunization management and reminder app, designed for parents within the Africa and Middle East region and Allows you to create profiles for each of your children and for yourself with photos, immunization summaries and medical contact information to manage your child's and yours immunization schedules according to your country's immunization program.    Responsibilities  • Worked with Autolayout and Size Classes to make an existing app compatible for all screen sizes.  • Used Core Data for storing data locally on device.  • Performed memory leak testing and allocation testing using instruments tool.    Environment & Tools Used: iOS 9, Objective C, XCode 7 Senior Software Engineer Programmr Technologies November 2014 to June 2015 Project 1 - Clipit  Role: Senior Software Engineer  Play Store Link: https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.screen4.clipit&hl=en Project Description  The Clipit app helps Soccer Fans Get LIVE match video clips of key moments in the game and if you missed any it lets you make a clip request to other fans who help find you clips of your favorite moments LIVE as the match going on. In this way you can relive and share all your favorite moments from a soccer match with friends & Family LIVE as the match is going on and later too.  Responsibilities  • Coordinated the development of the User interface with the UI design team to match the flow of the app.  • Integration of Reddit API's for getting soccer videos.  • Integrated Reddit API's for soccer videos.  • Interaction with backend team to design web services and interaction with web services.  • Uploaded app to the play store  • Performed code review.    Environment & Tools Used: Eclipse, ADT, Android SDK v 4.4 (KitKat). Senior Software Engineer Protocol Technologies August 2013 to June 2014 Project 1 - Buyers Pic(k)'s Role: Senior Software Engineer  App Store Link: https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/buyers-pic-k-s/id838239472?mt=8  Project Description  Buyers Pic(k)s is an application designed especially for those who want to organize whatever they See, Hear, Write, Store, Scan, Edit or Locate in a systematic manner. This App lets you capture an image, video or voice message and tag your "Picks" with custom or predefined tags to catalogue them appropriately.    Responsibilities  • Familiarity with RESTful APIs to connect iOS applications to back-end services.  • Code review to maintain the code quality and to stick to the apple guidelines.  • Worked with Objective C and cocoa touch framework, which includes UIKit, Foundation, MapKit, Core Location and AVFoundation.  • Optimized app for Chinese Version using Localization.  • Worked under agile environment.    Environment & Tools Used: iOS 7, Objective C, XCode 6    Project 2 - 4Waysite  Role: Senior Software Engineer  Project Description  This application is all about the music band (Crosby, Stills, Nash and Young whose Ohio and Déjà vu album are worldwide famous). The application provides all the details like their history, their releases, some rare Photos, their upcoming tours and facility to download their music from iTunes and books from Amazon.    Environment & Tools Used: iOS 7, Objective C, XCode 6    Project 3 - Leftfree  Role: Senior Software Engineer  Project Description  Using Leftfree app we can post the images/photos.  The functionalities provided by the app.  • Get the latest posts using web services.  • Posted images/photos taken by camera  • Unit testing and bug fixing.    Environment & Tools Used: iOS 7, Objective C, XCode 6 Android/iPhone Developer Caprium Technologies December 2011 to July 2013 Project 1 - Pawn App  Role: Android/iPhone Developer  Client: In House Development  Project Description  The Pawn App is basically used for storing information about the customers and their transactions with the Pawning items e.g. Jewellery Items. You can add new customer or item or new transaction, edit or delete existing information, manage transaction history and can also share feedback on social sites.  Responsibilities  • Implemented SQLite 3 database for storing information.  • Unit testing and bug fixing.  • Code review and code walk through.  Environment & Tools Used: iOS 6, Objective C, XCode 5  Project 2 - Station Digital  Role: Android/iPhone Developer  Project Description  Station Digital is a song listening App (like Radio). Medianet, the songs provider fetches the list of songs according to the genre or artist name or song name. According with the search criteria list will be generated and user can listen the songs continuously. User can skip maximum 6 songs in one hour. User can create its own station and able to see listen history also.  Responsibilities  • Integration of Medianet (Service Provider) for getting songs.  • Worked on web service calls, XML and JSON parsing included in the project  • Involved in testing to end application for memory leaks, fixed relevant bugs.  Environment & Tools Used: iOS 6, Objective C, XCode 5    Project 3 - Employee Tracker  Role: Android/iPhone Developer  Client: In House Development  Project Description  The App is basically an employee attendance App. Using this application employee can mark their attendance. The application simply opens the QR/Barcode Scanner and scans the QR code and send the information along with the current date and time through web service to the server. Where all these information gets stored.  Responsibilities  • Integrated ZXing Library for Scanning QR Code.  • Worked on web service calls, XML and JSON parsing included in the project  • Unit testing and bug fixing.  Environment & Tools Used: iOS 5, Objective C, XCode 5, Java, Android SDK v 3.x (Honeycomb).    Project 4 - Save On Courier  Role: Android/iPhone Developer  Project Description  Using Save On Courier application user can find the exact location of the package On map. This app gives courier and client interface for pickup package, drop package, bid on orders, track couriers.  Responsibilities  • Worked with Objective C and cocoa touch framework, which includes UIKit, Foundation, MapKit and Core Location.  • Used Map Kit and Core Location to get locations  • Created models in MVC and development of delegates for updating model information.  Environment & Tools Used: iOS 5, Objective C, XCode 4, Java, Android SDK v 3.x (Honeycomb).    Project 5 - Wasabii  Role: Android/iPhone Developer  App Store Link: http://itunes.apple.com/us/app/wasabii/id548231482?ls=1&mt=8  Project Description  Using this application one can find list of events and venues which is currently available. The main feature of this app is Scanner. Only valid tickets get scanned by scanner and if ticket belongs to that particular event then and then only user gets entry in the Event/Club.  Responsibilities  • Designed, Architect and implemented various UIViews according to specifications UINavigation, UITableView, UIAlertView etc.  • Integrated ZXing Library for Scanning QR Code.  • Custom UI implemented with XIBs and Manual Retain/Release memory management.  Environment & Tools Used: iOS 5, Objective C, XCode 4, Java, Android SDK v 3.x (Honeycomb). iOS & Android Developer CDAC June 2011 to November 2011 Project Description  Using this application one can find flats which are available in a city to give on rent and get the exact locations of the flats on the Google Map, Customer can book the flat via our application.  Responsibilities  • Design, Architecture, Develop and Test the application.  • Used Map Kit and Core Location to get locations  • Unit testing and bug fixing.    Environment & Tools Used: iOS 4, Objective C, Eclipse, ADT, Android SDK v2.2 (Froyo). Education B.E in Computer Science Pune University 2010 Skills ANDROID, IOS, XCODE, ANDROID STUDIO, Git, JENKINS, OBJECTIVE C, SVN, SWIFT, JIRA, ECLIPSE, JAVA, ANALYZER Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/amol-gaikwad-3240a041 Additional Information Technical Skills    Programming Languages Swift, Objective C, Java  Mobile Platforms iOS, Android  iOS Framework Foundation, COCOA Touch, UIKit, CoreData, MapKit, AVFoudation, CoreLocation, CoreBluetooth, Addressbook, Contacts.  Programming IDE XCode, Android Studio, Eclipse  Code Versioning Tools Git, SVN, JIRA, MKS  Tools Instruments, Static analyzer, Test Flight, Crashlytics, Jenkins