Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer - Boston Software Corp South Grafton, MA • 7 years of extensive experience in designing, coding and testing n-tier Client/Server and Web Based Applications using Agile Software Development Methodology (SCRUM) and Test Driven Development (TDD).  • Experience in developing data-intensive Web applications using C#, ASP.Net, ASP.Net MVC. AJAX, Angular 4/5, HTML, CSS, JQuery, Bootstrap and Java Script.  • Strong experience in developing and consuming web services with ASP.NET Core, Web API 2 and WCF using REST and SOAP Protocols.  • Solid understanding of OOPs concepts, Dependency Injection (DI) and SOLID principles concepts, and used the above concepts for writing testable and maintainable code.  • Experience in building and deploying web applications to Cloud (Azure)  • Strong knowledge in Relational Database Management Systems and experience in writing SQL scripts, Stored Procedures, Functions, Cursors and Triggers using MySQL and SQL Server 2008/2012  • Working knowledge in developing reports using Reporting Services (SSRS) and Experience in Data Extraction, Transforming and Loading (ETL) using SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS).  • Good team player and also have ability to work independently in a time bound environment/situation  • Strong experience in writing XSLT Transformations to achieve ACORD standards.  • Experience with Auto/Home Insurance domain.  • Strong analytical skills and problem-solving aptitude and Quick learner with an ability to easily adapt to new technologies and architecture Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Software Developer Boston Software Corp - Needham, MA May 2013 to Present Responsibilities:    • Developed Schema definitions representing the entity-relationship model for SinglePoint Information Model and Quote Presentation Hub Model.  • Used Angular 4/5 as framework to create a Single Page Application (SPA) which can bind data to specific views and synchronize data with server using Sass, LESS, Bootstrap and Angular.  • Built user-interactive web pages using various JQuery plugins for Autocomplete, Popups, Calendars and so on and also page rendering using JavaScript, JSON and AJAX.  • Created a RESTful Web API service using ASP.NET Web API to generate data for the SinglePoint App which was then consumed by the User Interface.  • Developed and consumed WCF Services to achieve Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) and communication between heterogeneous applications.  • Employed Object Oriented Programming Concepts (OOPS) in developing the domain services layer and used Dependency Injection to bind data.  • Designed and developed modules to support Test Driven Development (TDD) by making use of Dependency Injection.  • Written complex XSLT transformations to convert the XML as required by the end carrier.  • Used SSIS to create ETL packages to validate, extract, transform and load data to Azure data warehouse and data marts. Created Azure Blobs for storing unstructured data in the cloud as blobs.  • Developed Optimized SQL Queries and Stored Procedures, Triggers and Cursors on MySQL and SQL Server 2012 for data access and reports  • Developed test suites using Jasmine/Karma for Angular unit testing and using NUnit for API and domain services unit/integration testing.  • Configure Azure cloud service for end point deployment Programmer Analyst Talented IT Inc - Naperville, IL May 2011 to May 2013 Responsibilities:    • Involved in developing the web-based applications using ASP.NET MVC 4 beta framework with Entity Framework 4.3.1 including Code-First.  • Developed channel-specific adapter for each channel including Facebook, Twitter, Yelp, Edmunds and Yahoo Local by integrating with the respective APIs.  • Created WCF Services responsible for communicating and providing real time data from integrated server to Report Viewer.  • Participated in designing the database Schema to store Social Channel Analytics.  • Developed and Optimized Stored Procedures, Views, User-Defined Functions and Triggers using SQL Server 2008.  • Designed and developed ETL packages using SSIS and wrote stored procedures to generate reports through SSRS.  • Involved in developing both Unit and Integration tests. Education Master of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science Eastern Kentucky University - Richmond, KY May 2011 Bachelor of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science JNTU - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2007 Skills .Net (Less than 1 year), .Net Framework 4.0 (Less than 1 year), API (6 years), ASP (8 years), ASP.NET (8 years), JQuery (6 years), MICROSOFT SSRS (2 years), MODEL VIEW CONTROLLER (2 years), MODEL-VIEW-CONTROLLER (2 years), MS ASP (8 years), MS SQL SERVER (8 years), MVC (2 years), MySQL (6 years), NUnit (6 years), SQL (8 years), SQL Server (8 years), SQL Server 2008. (2 years), SSRS. (2 years), XML (6 years), XSLT (6 years), HTML 5, Git, CSS, Javascript