Stitcher radio Stitcher radio Stitcher radio - React, Redux, Node JS, Express JS Santa Clara, CA Github Profile: https://github.com/Roser1996.  - 5 years of professional experience as a Full Stack Developer in Javascript and front-end technologies such as React JS, Node JS, HTML5, CSS3, Ajax, MVC, SASS and Bootstrap.  - Hands on expertise in working with Javascript, prototype JS and various Javascript frameworks.  - Comprehensive understanding of both Functional Programming and Object Oriented Programming and string experience in different versions of Javascript - ES5/ES6/ES7/ES8.  - Good experience with React JS for creating front-end applications as reusable UI components.  - Experienced in creating SPA(Single Page Application) using React-Router.  - Worked with Redux for state management with action, reducer and store and used variant middleware such as redux-thunk for handling Async calls and logger for debugging.  - Experienced in applying latest development approaches including MVC frameworks in the browsers, event-driven applications using Ajax, Object Oriented(OO) Javascript, JSON and XML.  - Used SASS and LESS CSS pre-processors for converting to old fashioned CSS.  - Deep experience in developing web applications with external UI libraries including Bootstrap, Material UI, Ant Design and Chart JS.  - Experienced in resolving cross browser compatibility.  - Created web applications with Responsive Web Design using CSS Transitions and Media Query.  - Expertise in debugging and troubleshooting existing code with Chrome Developer, Fire bug and other developer tools.  - Experienced in creating REST API using Node JS and Express JS and used MongoDB for persistence and Redis for caching. Used Mongoose Schema/Model to create CRUD operations with express controllers.  - In-depth understanding of Relational DBMS and Non-relational DBMS and database design. Expertise in using MySQL, MongoDB and graphic user interface like MySQLWorkbench and Navicat.  - Used Babel, Grunt and Webpack to perform website bundling and minification, ESLint for code cleaning.  - Experienced in Python and built Web Crawlers using Scrapy framework. Participated some Kaggle contests and trained model with different methods using TensorFlow, Numpy and Pandas.  - Years of experience in C++ and Java. Built projects with various libraries and solved algorithm problems.  - Experienced in working with Linux and Ubuntu familiar with the linux commands.  - Working experience in Cross Compiling in different platforms such MIPS and ARM using shell script.  - Experienced in using cloud service AWS and deployed websites in Heroku.  - Hands on experience in working with Agile software lifecycle methodologies.  - Used Git and SVN for source code management and version control.  - Solid knowledge in algorithms, data structures, computer network, and operation system. Work Experience Stitcher radio React, Redux, Node JS, Express JS - San Francisco, CA February 2019 to Present Full-Stack Developer    Description: Designed and developed a customized Stitcher List for all users. Users can add their favorite shows to their own Stitcher List. Each show in the list contains its cover image, ranking, trending, category and other similar shows. Clicking the category would jump to the webpage with the list showing all the shows of this category. User could also edit the information of the show and upload customized cover. The project is developed by React JS, Node JS and MongoDB as the database.    - Involved in building a high efficiency dynamic Application using React, Redux, Node JS, Express JS, HTML5, CSS3, Javascript and Material UI.  - Implemented Responsive Design by using Material UI component property and css Media Queries.  - Used React JS as the front-end framework to build a Single Page Application(SPA) which can bind data to the specific views and synchronize data with server.  - Used react-router to implement the logic within SPA.  - Implemented Infinite loading for employee list using external javascript library.  - Implemented Search and Sort functionality for the employee list table with Ajax calls and receive the result from back-end server.  - Used Redux for managing application state and redux-thunk to handle the asynchronous API call in displaying data.  - Implemented pop up Modals for error handling in each web page.  - Made use of CSS pre processes like SASS for quickly and proficiently styling components.  - Integrated the Web Application with RESTFUL web services.  - Designed REST web service in back-end server using Node JS to handle the requests sent from the front-end Ajax calls. Used package manager for the project like NPM.  - Tested all the REST API calls with Postman to ensure it satisfy all the conditions.  - Used the javascript library multer for uploading image files and storing the files to a static folder.  - Used the MongoDB as the database and javascript library mongoose to implement the application functionality CRUD(Create, Read, Update, Delete).  - Responsible for checking cross browser compatibility and hence worked on different browsers like Safari, Opera, Firefox, Google Chrome and Internet Explorer.  - Used JSON data format for storing and exchanging data between client and server.  - Used Webpack as the package bundler for the project.  - Involved in Babel and ESLint for code styling and cleaning.  - Used Git as the version control tool, code base hosted on Github.  - Involved in Agile based approach to UI development.    Tech Stack: HTML, CSS, Javascript, React JS, Redux, Node JS, Express JS, RESTFUL API, Material UI, NPM, Agile, Git Full-Stack Developer SSB, Software Solutions - Los Angeles, CA September 2018 to January 2019 Description: Developed a web application for comparing all the services demanding provided by the company in the past few years and displaying the data in interactive graphs such as line chart, histogram, pie chart and radar chart. You can either see the overall comparison of all the services or choose any two of the services for comparison. The project is developed with React as the front-end framework, Node JS for the back-end. We used MySQL database for data storage.    - Involved in building a well designed web application using React, Redux, Node JS, Express JS, HTML5, CSS3, Javascript, Python, Ant Design and Scrapy.  - Implemented client side interface using React JS and Ant Design, Chart JS as the UI Library.  - Developed Navigation bar, menu bar, drop down list with React widgets and Ant Design.  - Involved in using react-router to turn the web application into Single Page Application and to route among different components.  - Used React JS with Redux to separate the data and presentation layer. Utilized Redux to stores to handle the states and update the UI components.  - Implemented auto completion within search field using react-autocomplete-input library.  - Designed interactive graphs for displaying customer consuming stats including line chart, histogram, pie chart and radar chart using the UI library Chart JS and Highchart.  - Integrated Google Login into the project for easy logging in.  - Implemented pagination in merchandise page using Ant Design component property.  - Established pages using CSS3 to maintain the uniformity of all the screens throughout the application and positioning of screen objects.  - Built RESTFUL API web services with Node JS and Express JS.  - Implemented the web crawler with Python using Scrapy framework and fetch all the data from dynamic websites.  - Used cloud service AWS and persisted our data to the MySQL database on AWS.  - Used JIRA for tracking application development progress and assigned tasks.  - Used Git as the version controlling and code base is hosted on Github.  - Deployed the web application in Heroku.    Tech Stack: HTML, CSS, Javascript, Python, React JS, Redux, Node JS, Scrapy, Chart JS, MySQL, Webpack, Git Software Engineer Shanghai JIT Information Technology Co., Ltd January 2013 to July 2017 Description: Built a database management system in plain covering storage management, buffer management, record-oriented file systems, access methods, query processing and query optimization. The DBMS supports three types of data storage including integer, float number and variable character field.    - Developed the database management system in C++ with Eclipse as the IDE tools and Valgrind for checking memory leak and GDB for debugging.  - Implemented the paged file system(PF) which provides facilities for high-level client components to perform file I/O in terms of page in singleton pattern.  - Implemented the record-based file manager (RBFM) supporting creating, updating, insertion, deletion and scanning based on the file manager.  - Implemented relation manager (RM) for managing database tables. RM handles creation and deletion of tables, also, it handles the basic operations performed on top of the table.  - Implemented the indexing component (IX) which provides classes and methods for managing persistent indexes over unordered data records stored in files.  - The indexing manager is developed in supporting B+ tree structure for range predicates.  - Implemented the QueryEngine (QE) component providing classes and methods for answering SQL queries.  - The QueryEngine supports block/index nested-loop join, grace hash join and external sorting.    Tech Stack: C++, Eclipse Education Master of Computer Science in Computer Science University of California - Irvine, CA Bachelor of Engineering in Communication and Information Engineering University of Electronic Science and Technology of China - Chengdu, CN Skills Visual studio, C/c++, C++, Git, Html Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Web Technologies HTML/HTML5, CSS3, Javascript, Typescript, React JS, JQuery, Ajax, Node JS, Express JS, JSON, XML, AWS, RESTFUL, NPM, OOP, MVC  Programming Languages Javascript, HTML, CSS, Python, C/C++, Java, Swift, Shell  IDEs & Tools Visual Studio Code, Sublime Text, Eclipse, Xcode, Postman, Chrome Developer, Fire bug, iTerm  Libraries React, Redux, Express, Bootstrap, Material UI, Ant Design, Chart.js, Mongoose, Scrapy  Database MySQL, MongoDB, PostgreSQL, SQLite  Operating Systems Mac OS X, Windows, Linux, Unix  Version Control Git, SVN