Software Engineering Technical Leader <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineering Technical Leader Software Engineering Technical Leader Melbourne, FL Software Engineering Technical Leader focused on quality and delivery. Representative of the software engineering department to define a vision and improve our process. Work Experience Software Engineering Technical Leader Thales - Melbourne, FL January 2019 to Present Responsible for the overall vision of the software engineering segment including devops, test automation and 5 software teams.  Guide team leads and management to improve and succeed in delivery and quality  Represent the software engineering segment as a technical interface with other departments.  Manage customer defects and change requests.  Troubleshoot issues found in production and help assign software fixes to teams.  Manage and approve segment level KPI's and reporting.   Align and unify the process and tool convergence. Software Engineering Team Lead Thales - Melbourne, FL March 2018 to January 2019 Led software team through the delivery of multiple software monitoring applications.  Prioritized stories to meet deadlines and software requirements.  Managed expectations of stakeholders.  Organized team meetings following the agile process.  Built teams skill sets through cross-training exercises and learning activities.  Delegated tasks to team members for effective sprint cycles.  Assisted with management reporting needs and cost estimates.  Improved team delivery through code quality and documentation standards.  Encouraged team communication through tools and process. Software Engineer Thales - Melbourne, FL September 2016 to March 2018 Developed C# applications for the aircraft messaging system.  Developed Microservices to supplement event driven messaging solutions.  Designed software solutions to support features such as payments security and other ground services.  Coordinated with third-party points of contact to ensure that provided COTS tools and APIs integrated correctly with our applications.  Maintained requirements with Systems Engineering team members.  Developed simulators and custom test tools to help efficiently test real world scenarios.  Documented instructions to improve usability and testability of the system.  Worked with test teams to effectively hand-off solutions. Software Engineer Inmarsat - Melbourne, FL September 2013 to August 2016 Developed C# and C++ applications and web services to support maritime internet and   entertainment services.  Designed solutions to migrate from legacy applications to improved software solutions.  Worked with test team to help successfully hand-off and improve installation process.  Managed and fixed bugs with guidance of key stakeholders.  Engineered custom reporting solution for internal stakeholders. Senior Analyst - Software Solution Developer Avanade - San Jose, CA September 2011 to August 2013 Developed C# applications and web services for customers with given requirements.  Developed Reporting solutions for Data Warehouse and Business Intelligence projects.  Led onshore and offshore teams in the development of software solutions.  Coordinated with stakeholders and teams to ensure deadlines are met.  Managed customer expectations to ensure delivery of products.  Traveled to customer sites for optimal engagement and coordination. Software Contractor NASA Ames Research Center with Fujitsu - Mountain View, CA May 2011 to September 2011 Developed a software solution using Hadoop and Java Pathfinder to ensure performance improvement.  Designed a solution with the guidance of mentors to help improve performance of test tools.  Documented observations about Hadoop and Symbolic Execution.  Coordinated with managers to deliver software on time. Software Product Line Engineering Internship POSTECH Software Engineering Lab January 2009 to December 2009 Worked with South Korean tech companies to help identify how to help them align with Software Engineering delivery models.  Wrote documentation to support Software Engineering process.  Developed prototypes to help simulate software engineering process flow. Education Master's in Computer Science with Data Science emphasis NOVA Southeastern University 2016 to Present Masters Certification in Communicating in Emerging Technologies in English University of Wisconsin September 2016 to December 2017 B.Sc. in Computer Science University of Minnesota - Minneapolis-Saint Paul, MN September 2006 to May 2011 Skills JIRA (7 years), Confluence (7 years), C# (8 years), .NET (8 years), Management (3 years), Git Links http://linkedin.com/pub/miriam-levy/30/240/221