Freelance Web Developer Freelance Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Engineer Oak Harbor, WA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Freelance Web Developer Oak Harbor, WA February 2019 to Present Create sites for small businesses and social media influencers to improve their sales conversion metrics. Sr. Software Development Engineer Virtuoso - Seattle, WA July 2018 to February 2019 Create tools to serve the business intelligence needs of travel agencies. Full Stack Software Engineer Lighter Capital - Seattle, WA May 2018 to June 2018 Lead engineer for servicing management platform, creating tools to enable servicing analysts to be more efficient and effective. Software Developer Epic Systems - Madison, WI January 2014 to November 2017 • Utilized M/Caché, VB, C#, JavaScript, HTML, and CSS.  • Analyzed requirements, proposed designs, and created estimates for projects and new features.  • Mentored and provided technical advice to newer developers, through formal mentor relationships  and ad hoc.  • Owned, coordinated, and managed projects throughout the development lifecycle.  • Developed a tracking tool to streamline surgical readiness processes, reduce day-of-surgery  complications, and improve perioperative efficiency.  • Lead troubleshooting of internal and customer issues, coordinating and overseeing investigation  and resolution plans.  • Presented during several large customer advisory councils and webcasts.  • Studied end user workflows and collected feedback during 2-5 hospital site visits per year.  • Communicated across teams and roles, including development, quality assurance, customer  support, sales, technical writing, and product management.  • Reviewed customer workflows and use of software and made optimization recommendations.  • Presented technical education topics to internal groups.  • Coordinated and supervised a summer project with two interns.  • Created mockups and prototypes with HTML, Balsamiq, Photoshop, and Illustrator. Software Developer Logos Bible Software - Bellingham, WA May 2012 to January 2013 • Utilized the Objective-C/Cocoa and C#/WPF frameworks.  • Developed a cross-platform, owner-drawn method of displaying reverse interlinear data.  • Programmed a control interface within the desktop software that allowed users to select resources  for automatic download to mobile devices.  • Redesigned menu interfaces to be more user-friendly and visually pleasing while retaining efficient  functionality.  • Worked within the performance and maintenance team to identify and improve areas of slow  performance and eliminate bugs. Event Technician Whitworth University - Spokane, WA September 2009 to May 2012 Delivered and setup sound and multimedia equipment in venues ranging from 30-person  classrooms to 500-person theaters.  • Operated sound and multimedia equipment for events including academic lectures, panel  discussions, movie screenings, and musical concerts. Sports Information Assistant Whitworth University - Spokane, WA September 2009 to May 2012 • Operated computer systems to record and display statistics in real-time.  • Delivered timely reports to coaches and broadcasters during sporting events. Software Development Intern Logos Bible Software - Bellingham, WA June 2011 to August 2011 • Programmed and tested features for the Mac OSX platform using Objective-C and Cocoa.  • Rebuilt the note-taking engine to allow users to type and save notes with rich text formatting.  • Pioneered a process for creating user interfaces programmatically, increasing flexibility and efficiency of user interface design. Research Assistant Whitworth University - Spokane, WA June 2010 to August 2010 Conducted research on ways to utilize machine learning to identify Autism risk factors. Tutor Pierce College - Lakewood, WA September 2008 to August 2009 • Hosted individual and drop-in tutoring for subjects including math, physics, ASL, and English.  (253) 691-3266 ? josiahdonor@gmail.com ? 3101 Stratton Way Apt 305 ? Madison, WI 53719 Education Bachelors of Science in Computer Science and Mathematics Whitworth University - Spokane, WA May 2012 Associate of Arts Pierce College - Lakewood, WA June 2009 Skills Git, Javascript, CSS, HTML 5, MYSQL