Product Engineer Product Engineer Product Engineer - Marsh Digital Service • Over 8+ years of experience in developing and designing Web, Enterprise, and Client-Server applications with good knowledge of development methodologies like Agile, Scrum and Kanban.  • Good level skills in design, development and deployment of applications using JEE technologies such as JSP, Servlet, JSTL, EJB, JDBC, JMS, JAXB, JAX-WS, JASX-RS, Struts 2, Spring and Hibernate.  • Good knowledge in Object Oriented Analysis and Design, SDLC, Software Development, Object Oriented Programming (OOP) and Functional Programming (FP).  • Experience in using various Design Patterns such as Model View Controller, Service Locator, Proxy, Data Access Object, Data Transfer Object, Front Controller, Factory, Business Object and Singleton.  • Better experience in Unit, Integration, User acceptance and Load testing.  • Good working experience and sound knowledge in various open source frame works like STRUTS 2, SPRING, and HIBERNATE.  • Strong working knowledge and experience in the design and implementation of SOAP and RESTful Web Services.  • Good knowledge of Big data technologies such as Hadoop and their ecosystem  • Sounds good knowledge on developing monolithic application using OSGi frameworks like Apache Karaf and Apache Felix.  • Hands on working experience with several open sources such as Apache (Karaf, Kafka, Camel, Avro, Felix, Casandra, Hbase, Zookeeper, Hadoop).  • Strong experience in database design using DDL, DML, writing complex SQL Queries and Stored Procedures.  • Good knowledge of Front End technologies like HTML, CSS, and Java Script  • Great knowledge of JavaScript frameworks like JQuery, AJAX, Angular JS, and Angular  • Strong experience in client interaction and understanding business application, business data flow and data relations from them.  • Advanced interpersonal skills - ability to establish strong working relationships and promote bi-directional communication within and across teams.  • Committed to excellence, self-motivator, fast-learner, team player, ability to deal with people diplomatically and a prudent developer with strong problem-solving skills and communication skills.  • Experience working in Onsite / Offshore Global Delivery Model Work Experience Product Engineer Marsh Digital Service - Phoenix, AZ July 2018 to Present USA    • Developing the Technical Design Document for the Marsh Digital Broker Use cases.  • Understanding the workflow use case diagrams and converting them into class diagrams, which Interns uses for development.  • Analyzing the API requirements to map the data elements to create the payload for the API.  • Create logical data models and data mapping rules.  • Developing the REST APIs using Java, Node.js and deploy on APIGEE.  • Implementing the security to provide enterprise-level security to access the application data.  • Working on Development, Pre-production and Production environments on internal and AWS cloud to develop and deploy applications. Senior Software Engineer Trimble Inc - Chennai, Tamil Nadu January 2018 to July 2018 India    • Designed, Implemented and Maintained Java web application to ensure business needs.  • Implemented several POC's to check new features can be added to an existing application.  • Created UI/UX for an application and tested with respective framework.  • Written unit and integration test to validate the business logic and flow.  • Coordinated with DevOps team to achieve CI/CD pipeline and release perspective  • Maintaining the source code in the version control system. Committing and updating code changes to the version control system. Senior Software Engineer GlobalLogic India Pvt Ltd - Chennai, Tamil Nadu March 2017 to January 2018 India    • Built, tested and deployed scalable, highly available and modular software products.  • Designed core interfaces, modular design with OSGi and Declarative Services.  • Modified existing software to correct errors, upgrade interfaces and improve performance.  • Worked closely with other team members to plan, design and develop robust solutions in a timely manner.  • Consulted with engineering staff to evaluate interface between hardware and software Software Engineer SunTec Business Solutions Pvt Ltd - Chennai, Tamil Nadu July 2014 to March 2017 India    • Implemented, maintained and verified Java Enterprise Application.  • Redefined and Implemented legacy application with new technologies and frameworks.  • Designed reusable components and frameworks to ensure deliverables are with-in timeline.  • Involved in UI/UX discussion and development to bring best user interface for the application  • Adhered all the standards and principles to develop a quality software product. Software Developer iInterchange Solutions Pvt Ltd - Chennai, Tamil Nadu June 2011 to May 2014 India    • Extensively used JSP, and Java Script, CSS, HTML for UI development.  • Involved in creating session and entity bean components in EJB 2.0.  • Created complex Views, Stored Procedures and Triggers on Oracle 9i.  • Involved in Source Code Management using SVS.  • Involved in test case creation and execution.  • Involved in build management using ANT scripts.  • Involved in bug fixing Education Bachelor of Science Madras University Chennai 2011 Skills Eclipse, Ejb, J2ee, J2se, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jaxb, Jaxp, Jboss, Jms, jquery, Jsp, Servlets, Struts, Amazon web services, Application server, Avro, Dtd, Git Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Programming Languages Java, JavaScript, SQL and Python  Technologies J2SE, J2EE, JDBC, JPA, JSP, Servlets, EJB, JMS, OSGi, Apache Karaf, Kafka, Camel, Avro, Felix, Zookeeper, Hadoop  Markup Languages HTML, DHTML, XHTML, XML, XSD  Web Technologies Java Script, JQuery, Ajax, Angular JS, Node JS, Angular, CSS, Bootstrap  Web Services Technologies XML Schema, DTD, REST, SOAP, WSDL, JAXB, JAXP, SOA, XSD, JSON  Could & Infrastructures Amazon Web Services (AWS), APIGEE Edge  DevOps Tool Jenkins, Maven, Gradle, SonarQube, Splunk  Application/Web servers Web Logic, Apache Tomcat, JBoss Application Server, Jetty  Frameworks Struts, Spring, Hibernate, Maven, JUnit, Log4J, Mockito  Databases Oracle, MySQL, MongoDB, Casandra, Hbase  Operating Systems Windows XP/Windows7, Linux and Mac  IDEs Eclipse, Net beans, InteliJ, Web Strom, Visual Code  Version Control Systems CVS, SVN, GIT