Systems Analyst Systems Analyst Systems Analyst Richmond, VA To obtain a challenging full-time position as a Programmer that enables me to leverage my past experience, allows me to learn new technologies, and provides opportunity for advancement. Work Experience Systems Analyst AACOM - Bethesda, MD March 2019 to June 2019 • Provided technical expertise and recommendations in assessing new IT software projects and initiatives that supported and enhanced existing Microsoft based systems.  • Identified opportunities to improve efficiency of business processes.  • Investigated and resolved application functionality related issues and provide first level support and troubleshooting of information systems  • Coordinated application development for multiple projects.  • Assisted in troubleshooting software application issues.  • Assisted in managing an outsource relationship with 3rd party application development and programming consultants.  • Assisted IT Support vendor with application installation and testing.  • Provided troubleshooting expertise to resolve technical issues and identify modifications needed in existing applications to meet changing user requirements.  • Provided data analysis expertise to identify data integrity issues within corporate database and proposed systems and implement solutions.  • Aided business users in the effective use of applications and information technology.  • Provided minor programming for in-house IT projects.  • Trained the system's end users and wrote technical procedures and documentation for the applications including operations, user guide, etc.  • Produced technical documentation for new and existing applications.  • Assisted in the creation of the system design and functional specifications for all new development projects.  • Served as a liaison and facilitator between all business units to assist in addressing and resolving IT software issues.  • Worked with Application Specialist to ensure database and data integrity. Software Developer OJC Consulting April 2018 to October 2018 • Performed customizations to COTS solution (IValua) using C#, ASP.NET and JavaScript.  • Assisted with end to end implementation, testing and delivery of designed COTS solution (IValua).  • Developed SQL scripts to make custom configuration updates to COTS solution (IValua).  • Managed the maintenance cycle of projects in production.  • Provided second level support, problem identification and resolution.  • Developed SSIS packages according to technical design specifications. Software Developer Costar Group - Washington, DC December 2016 to February 2018 • Worked with stakeholders to produce, analyze, specify and validate business and solution requirements to meet business needs.  • Designed highly performant and highly available products and platforms.  • Built solutions that operate on massive amounts of data in high transaction volume applications.  • Worked with QA resources to ensure that the software you deliver is of the highest quality.  • Acted as a key member of the product launch team and work closely to DevOps to resolve operational issues.  • Provided assistance to data analyst to automate tasks.  • Implemented solutions using several different third party API's.  • Migrated existing Bing Map API code to use Google Maps API.  • Implemented word limits for updatable content.  • Created a module for SEO landing page text using JavaScript, C#, SQL Server 2016 and ASP.NET MVC.  • Implemented Lazy Loading of images using third party Lazy Load API  • Created and modified Windows services.  • Created maintenance tasks for scheduling C#.  • Created tasks for test harness standalone C# application.  • Created all lead capture forms using JavaScript, C#, SQL Server 2016 and ASP.NET MVC.  • Developed testing programs that address areas such as database impacts, software scenarios, or usability.  • Tracked, logged and responded to support tickets.  • Managed incidents and provided resolution for end-user's technical challenges. Lead Programmer FBC Inc - Annapolis Junction, MD October 2014 to December 2016 • Served as webmaster and created content for marketing while ensuring compliance with Section 508 Standard  • Worked with stakeholders to produce, analyze, specify and validate business and solution requirements to meet business needs.  • Modified current registration system to use hashed passwords eliminating storing plaintext passwords in database using OOP.  • Added module for users to change passwords eliminating the need to human interaction saving our support team significant amount of time.  • Added CAPTCHA functionality to all contact forms using a third party JavaScript library.  • File listener standalone application and WCF web service to update AutoCAD files on webserver anytime changes are made to files on workstation where standalone application is running.  • Add modules to add functionality to core event management application  • Developed a form engine to create dynamic forms through web interface  • TFS simple repo implementation (multiple checkout scenario)  • Trained Junior developer in C#, ASP.NET and SQL Server  • Monitored error emails and made changes where necessary  • Run vulnerability scans and make changes where necessary  • Patched vulnerabilities for SQL injections in legacy code  • Maintain FISMA compliance and prepare for yearly audits.  • Tracked, logged and responded to support tickets.  • Managed incidents and provided resolution for end-users technical challenges.  • Served as webmaster and created content for marketing while ensuring compliance with Section 508 Standard Programmer FASEB - Bethesda, MD May 2012 to October 2014 • Assisted in design, implementation, testing and maintenance of Conference Registration System using a combination of server side and client side languages and frameworks including C#, ASP.NET, MSSQL Server, HTML/CSS, and JavaScript.  • Designed and created reporting and check disbursement modules for Conference Registration system using .NET stack.  • Designed and created a small flat file content management system using just HTML.  • Maintained backward compatibility for existing C# code.  • Translated business requirements into technical specifications  • Assisted with the implementation of Team Foundation Server  • Completed several data manipulation projects using C# and SQL Server.  • Transferred websites into CMS (Kentico) and integrated with external AMS system.  • Upgraded DotNetNuke  • Created interface for conference administrators to edit and delete records without having direct database access.  • Converted Photoshop mockups into HTML  • Integrated of third party APIs such as PayPal, YouTube, Twitter, and Google Maps  • Implemented image maps with SVG, Rafeal Library and JQuery  • IIS and SQL Server administration  • Provided technical support, and administration of the software  infrastructure for the implementation and maintenance of company's web  sites.  • Provided technical site maintenance and advice on issues related to animation, search engine techniques, link integrity, navigation, browsers,  graphics, and other technical web developments.  • Tracked, logged and responded to support tickets.  • Managed incidents and provided resolution for end-users technical challenges.  • Troubleshoot hardware/ software issues.  • Served as webmaster and created content for marketing while ensuring compliance with Section 508 Standard Junior Systems Engineer Decision Software - Lanham, MD January 2011 to January 2012 • Managed and maintained two off-site Microsoft domains, one Microsoft domain split between an on-site and remote location, and a combined 30+ servers.  • Administered, monitored, tracked, and documented all software, equipment, issues, and changes to the network.  • Investigated and performed troubleshooting of network connectivity, hardware, software and peripheral equipment issues, software installation and configuration.  • Configured workstations, servers, printers, and network appliances.  • Performed troubleshooting of common third party COTS problems, hardware and software malfunctions, and other miscellaneous technical issues while maintaining consistent and secure data communications in a networking environment, as well as minimizing customer stress levels by providing end user support and training.  • Provided technical consulting for network infrastructure, security, and data backup.  • Consistently provided effective technical support including innovative solutions to difficult software problems. Displayed ability to analyze, evaluate, and resolve hardware and software conflicts, application errors, and network connectivity problems. Junior Programmer Educate Inc - Baltimore, MD March 2007 to January 2009 • Designed, built, maintained and tested web based applications and websites using server-side languages including ColdFusion and ASP.NET.  • Worked with database servers such as: MSSQL Server 2005 and built many databases, diagrams, stored procedure, functions, relationships, constraints, etc.  • Performed administrative tasks on web analytics server (Urchin/GA) that included: setting up user accounts, roles, groups and access permissions, configuring analytics profiles for each website, configuring IIS log files, and troubleshooting reporting issues.  • Tracked, logged and responded to support tickets.  • Managed incidents and provided resolution for end-users technical challenges.  • Troubleshoot hardware/ software issues. Education B.S. in Information Systems Frostburg State University - Frostburg, MD 2006