Salesforce Developer Salesforce <span class="hl">Developer</span> Pittsburg, CA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Salesforce Developer Thermo Fisher December 2017 to Present Description: Broadridge Financial Solutions, Inc. is a US servicing company for the financial industry as a spin-off from Automatic Data Processing. The main fields of work are in securities processing, clearing and investor communication. Broadridge provide financial services firms with advanced, dependable, scalable and cost-effective integrated services to help run their businesses.    Responsibilities:  * Lead planning meetings, analysis development, test inspections, and other project meetings throughout project life cycle.  * Interacted with various business team members to gather and document the requirements.  * Implemented the requirements on Salesforce.com platform and Force.com IDE Plug-in using Eclipse.  * Developed several Triggers, Apex classes and Visualforce pages as part of the Application Development.  * Worked on various Salesforce.com Standard Objects like Accounts, Contacts, Leads, Campaigns, Reports and Opportunities.  * Designed, implemented and deployed the Custom objects, Page layouts, Custom tabs, Components to suit to the needs of the application.  * Created the workflows for Automated Lead Routing, Lead Escalation, Alerts and Custom Coaching Plans.  * Experienced in the use of Data Loader and scheduling timely data backup operations using Apex Scheduler.  * Involved in handling bulk data migration for the objects like Users, Accounts, Leads, Contacts, Campaigns, Campaign Members, Quotes  * Used Salesforce Chatter to provide real time notifications of changes in Accounts, Leads and Opportunities to help sales and service teams to be more efficient.  * Designed junction objects and implemented various advanced fields like Pick list, Custom Formula Fields, Field Dependencies, Validation Rules, Work Flows rules, process builders and Approval Processes for automated alerts, field updates, and Email generation leading to effective communication with customers and partner portals.  * Integrated Salesforce CRM and the Legacy System (Siebel) using Cast Iron Integration Systems.  * Used the Sandbox for testing and migrated the code to the Production instance after testing using Change sets and Eclipse.  * Customized the Dashboards to track usage for productivity and performance of business centers and their sales teams.  * Integrated Apex with External services by making callouts that used SOAP and WSDL.  * Provided training to the internal business users to use the application and develop their own custom Reports    Environment: Saleforce.com platform, Visual Force (Pages, Component & Controllers), Apex Language, Data Loader, HTML, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Sandbox data loading, Eclipse IDE Plug-in, Windows, Sales Cloud and Service Cloud. Salesforce Developer/Administrator Bank of America, LA October 2016 to November 2017 Description: Bank of America is an American multinational banking and financial services corporation and it is the second largest bank holding company in the United States by assets. Helping people understand their money and how to build Better Money Habits is at the heart of what they do by connecting our customers, clients, employees and communities to the tools, products and education they need to help make their financial lives better.    Responsibilities:  * Analyzed and implemented the Security model (Object level, Field level and Record level) using Profiles,  * Created Permission sets to give access to the new users based on the roles that are migrated to SFDC from DIW system without impacting the current users and profiles.  * Interacted with business users to understand the requirements and to come up with the POC.  * Managed the case team activities and been part of the production support.  * Provided resolution for high priority cases without impacting the SLA's.  * Worked on change requests and Enhancements as required.  * Good working experience in SSO and on Communities.  * Created Custom Report types as required by the Sales, marketing and technical users.  * Developed and configured various Custom Reports and Report folders as per user criteria.  * Mapped the roles of DIW system with the existing GLOBALFOUNDRIES system and have designed the role hierarchy without impacting the current system.  * Created Sharing rules, Validation rules and Approval process and other out of the box features.  * Implemented work flow rule out bound messages to sync data with the Open text and Swift systems.  * Designed Custom formulae fields, Work flow field updates, field dependencies and email generation as per the application requirements.  * Created Page layouts, Picklists and Record types as per the business requirements.  * Created user required queues and Groups as required by the project needs.  * Defined Master-Detail, Lookup and Junction objects to establish the relationship between the objects.  * Customized Page Layouts as per the custom objects depending upon user roles and groups.  * Developed Visual force pages based on the business requirements.  * Developed Apex classes, Controllers and Triggers to apply the business logic and to perform the database events.  * Developed custom web services to integrate the GLOBALFOUNDRIES system with the PRTS system.  * Implemented SFDC to google doc's integration.  * Participated in Code walk through and suggested best practices to be implemented where ever required.  * Testing to ensure the solution works and End user training  * Have played a key role in Data migration activities from DIW to SFDC system.  * Created test scenarios on Sandbox environment, created packages and moved it between Sandboxes and Production environments to place final implementations using SVN and Jitter bit    Environment: Salesforce.com platform, Apex , Web services API, Visual Force Pages, Controllers, CSS, Workflow & Approvals, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Security Controls, Page Layouts, HTML, Java Script, Reports, Dashboards, Eclipse IDE Plug-in, Windows XP, Sales Cloud. Salesforce Developer AIG Insurance - Jersey City, NJ January 2013 to September 2015 Description: Thermo Fisher Scientific is an American multinational, biotechnology product development company and named as world leader in serving science. Thermo Fisher offers a unique combination of innovative technologies, convenient purchasing options and a single solution for laboratory operations management and is dedicated in improving the human condition through systems, consumables, and services for researchers.    Responsibilities:  * Performed detailed analysis of business and technical requirements and designed the solution by customizing various standard objects of Salesforce.com (SFDC) and other platform based technologies like Visual force, force.com API, and web services.  * Analyzed and implemented the Security model (Object level, Field level and Record level) using Profiles, Roles and Sharing Model (Organizational-wide defaults & Sharing rules) settings  * To segregate the requirements in to Configuration or Development tasks  * Developed Triggers for applying the business logic on Database events  * Designed front-end pages with Apex and Visual Force  * Designed and developed Workflow rules and Validation Rules.  * Customized the Customer search screen using SOSL & Visual Force Pages  * Participated in code walk-thru and reviews  * Implemented Approval Processes  * Performed Unit Testing & Performance testing in Dev  * Salesforce to Outlook Integration.  * Customized of invoice forms using Record Types.  * Customized the Invoice Receipt Layout and Invoice Payment receipt Layout to be able to receive the information from Invoice and payments  * Testing to ensure the solution works and End user training  * Created test scenarios on Sandbox environment, created packages and moved it between Sandboxes and Production environments to place final implementations.    Environment: Saleforce.com platform, Visual Force (Pages, Component & Controllers), Apex Language, Data Loader, HTML, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Sandbox data loading, Eclipse IDE Plug-in, Windows, Sales Cloud, Service Cloud. Software Development Engineer Cybage - Pune, Maharashtra March 2010 to December 2012 Description: Cybage Software is a technology consulting organization specializing in outsourced product engineering services. As a leader in the technology and product engineering space, Cybage works with some of the world's best Independent Software Vendors (ISVs). Cybage solutions are focused on modern technologies, and are enabled by a scientific, data-driven system called the ExcelShore Model of Operational Excellence.  Responsibilities:  * Involved in analysis and design of the application architecture based on MVC Architecture, used open source Struts framework and Database with new field updates added to the legacy system.  * Wrote and customized several Java Programs for the spend management system at SBI to streamline the process of procurement.  * Web Tier was developed by using Struts Frame Work.  * Involved in Application development with IDE Tool Eclipse and web server Tomcat.  * Designed and developed User Interfaces, Menus using HTML, CSS, DHTML, JSP, JavaScript and client-side & server-side validations.  * JavaBeans have been developed for using them among various modules of the application.  * Created front-end screens for the module by using JSP's.  * Used PL/SQL, Stored Procedures and table level and system level triggers for handling database processing and for generating analysis reports from MS SQL Server.  * Involved in writing XML parser handlers for parsing XML files and filling JavaBean Objects.  * Used SVN for Source Control and Version Management.  * Involved in Module and Unit Level Testing with JUnit, Participated in database tuning.    Environment: Java/J2EE, J2SE, Struts 1.1, XML, DOM, SOAP, Eclipse, SVN, WebLogic 8.1, Tomcat,  MS SQL Server, PL/SQL, Ant, JUnit, UNIX. Education Bachelor in Computer Science Engineering in Computer Science Engineering JNTU 2006 to 2010 Skills Salesforce, Apex, Visualforce, COM, Salesforce Admin Links http://Salesforce.com Additional Information TECHNICAL SUMMARY  * Having 8+ years of IT experience in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) which involves requirement gathering, requirement analysis, design, development, implementation& enhancement of projects, 5 years of extensive knowledge of Salesforce.com CRM and its Development Life Cycle as a Developer / Administrator and 4+ years on Java/J2EE technologies.  * Well versed with analyzing company processes, translating business workflows into accurate CRM workflows & configuring CRM applications to meet business needs.  * Expert in generating and analyzing Custom reports and Dashboard for management and various business unit personnel to provide detail information on key performance indicators.  * Strong Requirements gathering experience and documentation skills which includes Conducting User Interviews, transforming business requirements into user requirement specification, Functional Requirement Specifications Document (FRD) and Use Case Narratives.  * Experience in creating Custom objects and integrating existing desktop and web apps with legacy mainframe systems.  * Implemented pick lists, dependent pick lists, lookups, junction objects, master detail relationships, validation and formula fields to the custom objects  * Strong experience in implementation and Integration using Standard & Custom Objects, Triggers, workflows, approvals, Visual force Pages, Apex Controller Classes.  * Experience in integrating SFDC with application like Microsoft Outlook etc.  * Comprehensive experience to integrate 3rd party systems from within Salesforce.  * Experience in Data Migration using Import Wizard, Apex Data Loader, Force.com IDE and Eclipse IDE, Force.com Explorer, and ANT.  * Expert level of interacting and educating clients on salesforce.com architecture and best practices.  * Experienced customizing standard objects Accounts, Contacts, opportunities, Products, Price books, Cases, Leads, Campaigns, Reports and Dashboards.  * Ability to work with business analyst team to become familiar with the application requirement to analyze and recommend efficient solution within Salesforce configuration changes in support of enhancement requests.  * Implemented security and sharing rules at object, field, and record level for different users at different levels of organization, also created various profiles and configured the permissions based on the organizational hierarchy.  * Expertise in Force.com technology stack: APEX, Visual Force, SOQL, SOSL.  * Comprehensive knowledge in, APEX REST API, Web services API, SOAP API, Metadata API, Force.com Sites, and Analytic Snapshots.  * Knowledge in developing web-based applications using HTML, HTML5, CSS, CSS3, Core Java, XML, JSON, JavaScript, Ajax and jQuery.  * Salesforce Platform Developer I (Dev401) Certified.  * Proficient in TSO/ISPF, COBOL, VSAM, JCL, CICS, EAZYTRIVES and other Mainframe tools/Utilities like File AID, File Manager , CHANGEMAN, ENDEVOR,SPUFI and TWS.  * Strong working experience in the Enhancement, Implementation, Support and Testing of Sales force and mainframe Applications.    TECHNICAL SKILLS    SFDC Technology: Apex Classes, Controllers & Extensions, Triggers, Visual Force Page, SOQL,  SOSL.  SFDC Tools: Apex Data Loader, Connect Outlook, Force.com IDE (Eclipse), My Eclipse.  Languages: Apex, Java/J2EE, SQL, PL/SQL.  Web Technologies: HTML, JavaScript, AJAX, CSS, XML, WSDL, REST, SOAP, jQuery.  Databases: MS SQL Server, My SQL, Oracle 10g/9i, DB2, MS Access.  Operating System: Windows, Unix, Linux.