SQL BI Developer SQL BI <span class="hl">Developer</span> SQL BI Developer - HSB Hartford, CT ? Over 8 years of Industrial Experience in Technical IT Support & BI solutions using T-SQL, SSIS, SSRS, SSAS.  ? Hardware, software, network and surveillance support for various customer groups in accordance with approved policies, procedures and Information Technology Infrastructure Library (ITIL) guidelines  ? Experienced in SDLC environment of project including requirement gathering, creating technical specifications, development and testing of end product.  ? Experienced in writing complex SQL queries which involves multiple tables' joins, common table expressions (CTEs), user defined functions, views & triggers for data consistency and data manipulation according to the business requirements.  ? Hands on experience in using SSIS transformations like Aggregate, Row Count, Data Conversion, Lookup, Merge, Union all, Derived Column, Multi-Cast, OLEDB Command and Conditional Split in different scenarios.  ? Well experienced in ETL methodology for designing and developing Extraction, Transformation and Load processes in high volume data environments using SQL Server Integration Services.  ? Development of Automated notification when SQL Server Backups and schedule maintained jobs.  ? Deployed and administered SSRS reports from report server.  ? Excellent experience in developing Reports using SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS) and Tableau  ? Increasing the efficiency and automation of various IT system applications and databases.  ? Hands on experience in understanding the database design and their relational integrity, along with Constraints, OLAP, OLTP, Cubes and normalizations.  ? Expert in automating process by creating jobs, and error reporting using Alerts, SQL Mail Agent.  ? Identifying new opportunities to increase efficiency and performance.  ? Good team player, Excellent interpersonal and communication skills combined with self-motivation, initiative and the ability to think outside the box.    TECHNOLOGY SUMMARY    Systems: MS-DOS, Windows NT/2000/XP/2K3/Vista/2008/7/8/10  Databases: MS SQL server (2008-2012), Oracle11g  BI&DW Tools: SQL Server Business Intelligence Development - SSIS, SSRS, SSAS  Languages: C++, JAVA, .NET C#, SQL, HTML, JAVASCRIPT  Software: MS Project, MS Visio, MS Office Word, MS Access, MS Excel, MS PowerPoint,  MS Outlook and MS SharePoint Designer, Visual Studio Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience SQL BI Developer HSB - Hartford, CT February 2018 to Present • Interacted with Business Analysts and end users to gather business requirements  • Written Stored Procedures, Triggers, Functions, Indexes, Tables, Views and other T-SQL code and SQL joins for applications.  • Create the SQL Server jobs in SQL Server Agent in SSMS to automate the existing process  • Designed and developed SSIS packages to Extract transform and load data from various data sources into SQL server  • Grouping, aggregating, and splitting data using SSIS  • Created SSIS Packages for Incremental loading and slowly changing dimensions  • Created SSIS Packages to import and export data from Excel Spreadsheets, Text files, CSV files and various direct sources  • Experience in handling the errors in the SSIS package at different levels using Event Handlers  • Loggings, Breakpoints and Data Viewers for effective debugging of packages.  • Optimized the performance of slow executing SSIS packages by making changes as Control  Flow and Data Flow like avoiding blocking transformations, increasing buffer size.  • Create SQL Agent jobs to execute SSIS packages and SQL scripts, and place them on schedules to run based on business requirements.  • Developed many Tabular Reports, Matrix Reports, Drill Down Reports and Charts using SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS).  • Deployed and scheduled reports using SSRS to generate all daily, weekly monthly and quarterly Reports including current status.  • Assisted with various ad hoc query requests.  • Fixed bugs in existing SSRS reports , modified and re-designed based on business requirements  • Written complex expressions and custom code to design SSRS reports  • Troubleshoot existing SSRS reports in the production, UAT, QA, and PQA environments  Environment: SQL 2008/2014 , SSIS, SSRS, Visual Studio 2012 , Excel & Word SQL BI Developer CSRA October 2017 to February 2018 Fredrick, MD  • Analyzed, documented, developed and deployed SSRS reports  • Assisted in support of systems, including taking responsibility for the resolution of low to moderately complex issues, monitoring the system, and communicating with users regarding problems, to ensure the system is functioning  • Investigated, diagnosed, isolated, and de-bugged issues and performs problem resolutions  • Worked with Testers to transfer knowledge and ensure adequate test coverage  • Participated in design and code reviews.  • Analyze and resolve current Production application issues  • Transform complex customer requirements into working, maintainable enterprise-level solutions  • Writing complex SQL database queries ,Dynamic-queries, sub-queries and joins for generating Stored Procedures, Triggers, User-defined Functions, Views and Cursors  • Designed different type of new reports such as Tabular reports, Matrix reports, drill down, parameter and Cascaded Parameters.  • Designed Web-enabled reporting to create reports that draw content from related databases.  • Worked with existing SSRS reports to troubleshoot, modify and re-design based on business requirements.  • Deployed SSRS reports to Report Manager and complex queries to appropriate databases in UA environment.  • Worked with complex expressions include to multiple files or parameter, conditional statements and custom code in the design part of SSRS  • Experienced in working towards source code using Subversion  • Worked with different types of Data task to resolve issues in a daily basis using complex SQL quires in the production environment.  • Experienced in Jira ticketing tool managing different types of issues(stories, tasks, sub-tasks)  • Experienced in Agile Scrum methodologies for report deliverables optimizing with story points estimations.  Environment: SQL Server 2012, SSIS, SSRS, Visual Studio 2012, TortoiseSvn SQL BI Developer CareFirst Blue Cross Blue Shield - Baltimore, MD August 2015 to September 2017 • Key role involvement in writing T-SQL Queries, Dynamic-queries, sub-queries and joins for generating Stored Procedures, Triggers, User-defined Functions, Views and Cursors.  • Experienced in database activities like Data Modeling, Database Design, Development, Database creation and Maintenance, Performance Monitoring and Tuning, Troubleshooting, Normalization and Documentation.  • Hands on experience using SSIS transformations such as Lookup, Derived column, Data conversion, Aggregate, Conditional split, etc.  • Worked on maintenance and Administration of SSIS by creating Jobs, Alerts, SQL Mail Agent, and schedule DTSX/SSIS Packages.  • Extract Transform Load (ETL) development using SQL Server 2012 Integration Services (SSIS).  • Creating SSIS packages using proper control and data flow elements with error handling.  • Extensively used SSIS Import/Export Wizard, for performing the ETL operations.  • Imported data from text files/excel spread sheets into SQL Server 2008/2012 database using SSIS package  • Designed SSIS Packages using various Tasks like Execute SQL Task, bulk insert task, data flow task, file system task, send mail task, Execute Package Task, active script task, xml task  • Involved in the designing, development, modification and enhancing the database structures and database objects  • (SSRS) Created different types of Tabular reports like Cascaded Parameters, Drill through, Drilldown, sub-reports and developed some graphical reports using Report Designer  • Generated periodic reports based on the statistical analysis of the data from various time frame and division using SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS)  • Developed various operational Drill-through and Drill-down reports using SSRS  • Developed different kind of reports such a Sub Reports, Charts and Matrix reports  • Used cascaded parameters to generate a report from two different Data Sets.  • Created SSAS cubes with multiple fact measure groups and multiple dimension hierarchies based on the OLAP Reporting needs  • Regular responsibilities for updating staging and dimensional databases as well as rebuild the Dimensions and Cubes in Analysis Services.  • Created named query in SSAS Data Source View to get appropriate hierarchical summarize data for two dimensions.  • Defining Dimension Hierarchies in SSAS to ensure data nested correctly  • Implementing and defining Dimension Attribute relationships to perform fast and accurate aggregations.  Environment: SQL Server 2008/2008R2/2012, SSIS, SSRS,SSAS, Visual Studio 2008 & 2012, TortoiseSvn Software Engineer GANTECH Inc - Columbia, MD December 2013 to August 2015 • Provided on-site and remote hardware, software, network and surveillance support for various customer groups in accordance with approved policies, procedures and Information Technology Infrastructure Library (ITIL) guidelines.  • Assisted the Function Support Teams in support of client network which includes working on computer servers and application, bandwidth capacity management, network performance management, preventative maintenance and working with various technology disciplines in troubleshooting activities.  • Monitored database jobs using Stonebranch Opswise tool and escalating when job fails.  • Worked with senior DBA to configure Failover clustering for critical database servers.  • Worked with SQL Server Developer to run queries to retrieve data from database systems.  • Installation and configuration of SQL Server 2012.  • Monitored database backup jobs to report the status and escalate failures when necessary.  • Installed, Configured, Managed and Monitored SQL Server 2005/ 2008.  • Created and Implemented data validation using Constraints and Creating DDL & DML Triggers.  • Involved in re-designing of database to create de-normalized database that support the business requirement.  • Created new database objects like Procedures, Functions, Packages, Triggers, Indexes and Views using T-SQL in Development environment for SQL Server.  • Optimized the performance of slow running SQL Quires by changing the Index Columns and adding Cluster Index on the appropriate column of the Table.  • Used ETL (SSIS) to develop jobs for extracting, cleaning, transforming and loading data into data warehouse.  • Developed SSIS packages to Implement Extract, Load and Transform data from heterogeneous sources (Excel, OleDB, Flat file).  • Extensively used the SSIS Control flow tasks like Script Task, FTP Task, Web Service Task, Send Mail task.  • Extensively used SSIS transformations such as Lookup, Derived column, Data conversion, Aggregate, Conditional split.  • Experience in handling the errors within the SSIS package at different levels using Event Handlers.  • Responded to network activities as required, which includes supporting Service Level Agreement (SLA) commitments between the internal/external customers.  • Monitored Business Object jobs to make sure reports are successful for DHR and escalate when necessary.  • Monitored DHR front-end various production and non-production applications connectivity and escalate issue when required  • Assisted Maryland Department of Transportation (MDOT) with printer issue and escalate it to appropriate team and assist to resolve.  • Fixed DHR local IT support issues (password reset for mainframe applications, AD accounts and troubleshooting LAN issues, escalate it to Admin).  • Supported the Host Integration Server (HIS), restarting server, checking the availability of LUs, PUs and troubleshooting as necessary.  • Resolved issues with Virtual Desktop Infrastructure (VDI).  • Worked with trouble tickets and perform the initial review or triage for reported issues.  • Ensured all tickets/request/calls are correctly documented, assigned, communicated, and updated with the relevant information and escalated as necessary.  Environment: SQL Server 2008/2008R2/2012, Visual Studio 2012, SolarWinds, FoglightNMS, FoglightFMS Systems Analyst Columbia, MD January 2012 to December 2013 • Ran and monitored database jobs such as full backups, daily backups and monthly backups for state of Maryland's Works database using MS SQL Server 2012.  • Worked with senior DBA and senior architects to configure failover clustering for critical database servers.  • Used SSIS jobs for importing data from the flat files that brings the data to the application tables.  • Managed scheduled jobs, maintenance plans and alerts in MS SQL Server 2012.  • Interact with business users to gather required information for developing reports and SSIS packages.  • Developed stored procedures, advanced queries, Triggers and Views in T-SQL  • Developed advanced correlated and un-correlated sub-queries in T-SQL to develop complex reports  • Developed SSIS Packages to load daily changes of Org Hierarchy data into Flat Files using various Transformation Tasks  • Automated ETL Data loads and established efficient ways of Error Handling in SSIS  • Implemented Event Handlers, Package Configurations, Logging, System and User-defined Variables, and Expressions for SSIS Packages.  • Provided production support for the ETL jobs and also to the code deployment into QA & production environment.  • Monitored and ran Business Object Reports for the CHESSIE SOM DHR application.  • Diagnosed and resolved technical hardware and software incidents.  • Provided incident status updates to management on critical incidents.  • Managed all open critical incidents through resolution.  • Logged all interactions and actions taken in appropriate tracking tool.  • Redirected incidents to the appropriate support group for next level troubleshooting.  • Identified and escalated critical incidents immediately.  • Responded to customer requests for technical assistance.  • Managed working relationships with other departments and maintained effective cross-functional communications.  • Reviewed and recommended as appropriate, changes to Department's processes and procedures.  • Maintained an environment focused on problem prediction, detection and resolution.  • Compiled network status reports as requested by Supervisor and/or Manager.  • Provided status reports to Supervisor and/or Manager as requested.  • Reviewed and modified SOPs to keep current.  • Worked a variety of shifts including evenings, nights, weekends, holidays and long shifts.  • Worked on to troubleshoot HIS LUs and printers and recycled servers when necessary, making sure all LUs were available (mainframe).  • Reviewed and modified SOPs to keep current.  Environment: SQL Server 2008/2008R2/2012, Visual Studio 2012, SolarWinds, FoglightNMS, FoglightFMS Junior Systems Analyst THE CONSULTANTS CONSORTIUM (TCC) - Columbia, MD May 2011 to December 2011 • Monitored routers, interfaces, servers, remote PCs, and applications.  • Worked on to troubleshot devices within the Network and escalating the issues as needed.  • Compiled, formatted and analyzed router's Ping, Packet Loss and Bandwidth statistics.  • Compiled, formatted and analyzed server CPU statistics using monitoring tools including Network Management System (NMS)-Foglight & Foglight Management server (FMS)-Foglight, Ipswitch Whatsup Gold and OTHS Solarwinds.  • Escalated LAN and WAN issues to the proper administrators.  • Composed bandwidth utilization reports and submitting weekly status summaries.  • Used Remote Administrator to perform maintenance on various devices.  • Performed Remedy ticketing.  • Compiled network status reports as requested.  • Performed SQL admin duties using SQL Server Agent for data backup, creating different roles on users and created jobs.  • Interacted with the users to understand requirements and document them.  • Analyzed the system requirements, business logic and specific line of business  • Reviewed many T-SQL issues using management studio for better performance.  • Maintained the table performance by normalization, creating indexes and collected statistics by using query optimization, query execution plans, SQL Server Profiler and Database engine tuning Advisor.  • Involved in Tuning of queries to enhance Performance.  • Involved in the Data migration activities to load the Data into different DB Schemas.  • Reviewed many T-SQL issues using management studio for better performance.  • Supported effectively for decision making throughout the organization.  Environment: SQL Server 2008/2008R2/2012, Visual Studio 2012, SolarWinds, FoglightNMS, FoglightFMS Education Master of Science in Applied Information Technology in Applied Information Technology Towson University - Towson, MD 2013 Post Baccalaureate Certificate in Database Management System Towson University - Towson, MD 2013 Bachelor of Science in Computer Information Systems in Computer Information Systems Towson University - Towson, MD 2010 Associate of Arts Community College of Baltimore County - Baltimore, MD 2007