Dynamics 365/CRM Developer Dynamics 365/CRM <span class="hl">Developer</span> Dynamics 365/CRM Developer - US Bank Minneapolis, MN To obtain a position as Business Intelligence/CRM developer that provides challenging career opportunity to utilize my prior experience and prospects to enhance my skills and grow in the organization.    • Over 8 years of IT experience in DataAnalysis, Design, Development, testing and Implementation of business applications in Insurance, Utility, Retail and Financial sectors.  • 3+ years of experience on Microsoft Dynamics CRM 2015/2016/365 creating Entities, Views, Web resources, Ribbon, Forms, Configuration and Customization.  • Experience in developing and deploying plug-ins, custom workflow activities and java script extensions for MS CRM.  • Experience in different areas of Data warehousing, RDBMS, Data extraction, Development and Implementation of data warehousing, business Intelligence system using Informatica PowerCenter, Data Conversion and various business applications in different platforms Informatica PowerCenter 9, Cognos 10/8 using Report Studio, Microsoft SQL Server and Oracle 11g/10g/9i(SQL/PL SQL).  • Creating technical design and functional design documents for Cognos report development.  • Extensively worked with Cognos 10/8 studios Report Studio, Query Studio, Analysis Studio and Metadata modelling tool Framework manager and Cognos connection.  • Good Knowledge on Developing dashboards using Cognos Insight and developed Active reports.  • Developed the Cognos FM models using Framework manager tool.  • Performance tuning by analyzing and comparing the turnaround times between SQL and Cognos.  • Managed scheduling of reports, public and my folders and distribution lists, users, groups and roles using COGNOS Connection in COGNOS 10.2.1.  • Customized data by adding prompts, Filters, Calculations, Summaries and Functions.  • Good knowledge of Data Marts, Data warehousing, Operational Data Store (ODS), OLAP, Data Modeling like Dimensional Data Modeling, Star Schema Modeling, Snow-Flake Modeling, FACT and Dimensions Tables.  • Extensive experience in developing Stored Procedures, Functions, Views and Triggers, Complex SQL queries using SQL Server, TSQL and Oracle PL/SQL.  • Experience in Microsoft Dynamics CRM Data integration towards import/export of data using SSIS.  • Good experience of SSRS (SQL Server Reporting Services) and SSIS (SQL Server Integration Services).  • Hands on knowledge of implementing and maintaining access controls and permission in CRM based on  roles and access conditions.  • Good knowledge of Web Development skills like HTML, CSS, XML, JQuery, JavaScript, and Visual Studio.  • Experienced in file transferring from windows server to mainframes using perl scripts.  • Experienced in Automating and Scheduling the Teradata and DB2 SQL Scripts on a daily, weekly and monthly basis.  • Rich and extensive experience in Agile Methodologies.  • Possess strong analytical and problem solving skills and have quick learning curve. Committed team player and capable of working on tight project delivery schedules and deadlines. Work Experience Dynamics 365/CRM Developer US Bank - Richfield, MN May 2017 to Present Roles and Responsibilities:  • Involved in functional analysis, design documentation, requirement gathering and development.  • Develop plug-ins for Dynamics CRM applications and good Understanding of technical and functional requirements.  • Development of Custom Workflow, Business process flows using C#.  • Provided estimation of MS Dynamics CRM implementation, Performance Tuning and implementing of industry standard best practices in MS CRM.  • Worked in customizing Microsoft Dynamics Solutions to enhance operational and business processes by building Workflow and Dialogue processes, creating Entities, Attributes, Entity relationships, Views and Forms.  • Using the Advance find View, created and pulled up the data for the users to use for their day to day activities.  • Customized forms and views for new modules to add into existing MS Dynamics CRM System.  • Maintain MS Dynamics CRM solutions/organization in all Environments.  • Created users in the CRM and have assigned the security roles based on the Security Privileges and Access rights in the organization.  • Worked on creating SSIS packages to handle data transfer from and to Dynamics CRM database.  • Implemented mapping for the entities and defined relationships between entities.  • Implemented Option sets on various forms as per the requirement.  • Wrote SQL queries to retrieve the data from Dynamics database. Software Developer Intune Systems Inc - Carrollton, TX February 2011 to Present Dynamics CRM Developer Microsoft - Redmond, WA May 2016 to March 2017 Roles and Responsibilities  • Installed and configured MS Dynamics CRM 2016 system for development and testing, configured server instance, created organizations.  • Discussed the requirements with end user and propose solutions to achieve business goals.  • Customized system entities and custom entities to meet the business requirements.  • Developed UI using Java script for interactive cross browser functionality and complex user interface.  • Creating custom entities, Views, forms, Ribbon, Sitemap, and Web Resources.  • Customized Dashboards based on the custom reports and charts created Used Visual studio test project and performed unit testing including both automated and manual testing.  • Created and scheduled SSIS packages to pull data from SQL Server and exported to Excel Spreadsheets and vice versa.  • Generated various reports with drilldowns, calculated members, dropdowns from the cubes by connecting to Analysis server from SSRS.  • Created new Security roles manage and delete existing security roles for an organization.  • Responsible for gathering Business, Functional requirements and Use cases and requested for a walk through.  • Customized Account Entity fields and related the Account Entity with all other Custom Entities.  • Importing and exporting customizations between QA and Production environments. Cognos Developer Amway Corporation - Grand Rapids, MI November 2015 to April 2016 Roles and Responsibilities  • Developed Standard Reports, Charts, Drill through Reports, Cross tab Reports, List Reports, Summary Reports and Multi Object Reports using Report Studio.  • Designed and Developed Framework Manager Models to be deployed as packages.  • Developed Prompt Pages, Calculations, and Variables & Filters.  • Extensively used Report Studio and Business Insight on lighter vein in designing Complex Dashboard Reports.  • Created reports with custom prompt pages (using HTML and JavaScript) in Report Studio.  • Ability to work independently with minimal supervision and effectively meet project deliverables on time.  • Played a key role while modifying existing reports to have a better view from the point of end users.  • Involve in the process of moving the reports to productions through a specified process.  • Schedule the reports to limited audience on a monthly, weekly and daily basis. Cognos Developer Nationwide Insurance - Dublin, OH January 2015 to October 2015 During my tenure with Nationwide Insurance Guidewire Claim Implementation -this project was implementation of new claims system that handled Auto, Casualty, Property and commercial lines insurance.    Roles and Responsibilities  • Gathered Business requirements and designed functional and technical requirements documentation for Globalization of Reports.  • Designed and developed reporting solution using Cognos Framework Manager (FM) and Cognos Report Studio for reporting needs using EDW Datamart utilizing Guidewire's InfoCenter.  • Understanding the frontend usage and backend database of Guidewire to be able to verify the data within the Local Operational Data Store.  • Developed and Published Packages in Framework Manager - Connecting and testing the data source, created database layer, physical layer and presentation layer, defining appropriate relationship between query subjects.  • Performed administrative activities to maintain the Cognos FM package, Cognos Server and Report migration activities.  • Generated dynamic reports which allowed users to select their choice of dimensions and measures to be included in the report and this gave the ability to the users to select the columns they would like to see in the reports at run time.  • Creating complex reports off of the Frameworks with features such as Dynamic sorting, Hidden Prompts, Drill downs, Drill Throughs and report with tabs.  • Created conditional variables to change the graph headers and list column headers based on the user parameter selection.  • Participated in the User Acceptance Testing (UAT) of Cognos Cubes and Reports and provided necessary assistance to the users during User Acceptance Test.  • Created Custom Cognos report pages by modifying XML files and other Configuration files.  • Created Oracle PL/SQL Stored Procedures, Functions, and Cursors for use by Framework Manager Packages and Report Studio reports.  • Designed and Developed Framework Manager Models and Implemented security using Access Manager.  • Designed Meta data model (Relational and Dimensional model) using Framework manager and published the package in Cognos connection.  • Developed models containing query subjects, query items, and namespaces from scratch as well as from imported metadata.  • Involved in Troubleshooting, Bug fixing and enhancements of the existing reports.  • Created Weekly, Monthly and Quarterly Business Monitoring reports on different Business Programs which helps Managers to take decisions on the Programs.  • Worked with various Business users to gather reporting requirements and understand the intent of reports and attended meetings to provide updates on status of the projects. Informatica Developer Pacific Gas and Electric - San Ramon, CA October 2014 to December 2014 Worked on a project named MDS and ENDUR retirement. These applications are being retired from old database in oracle and been brought to new database in Teradata for efficient usable of data for reporting and audit purposes.    Roles and Responsibilities  • Worked closely with business analyst and Data Warehouse architect to understand the source data and need of the Warehouse.  • Prepared various design documents like technical design documents, mapping specification documents, target to source mapping document.  • Developed mappings using Informatica to load data from sources such as Oracle and SQL Server into the Teradata.  • Extensively worked with transformations like Lookup, Update Strategy, Expression, Filter, Router, Joiner, Aggregator and Source Qualifier Transformations.  • Loaded data to Staging area using Teradata parallel transporter.  • Created Indexes, primary keys and checked other performance tuning at data base level.  • Implemented various Performance Tuning techniques on Sources, Targets, Mappings, and Workflows.  • Developed Teradata Stored Procedures. Performance and fine Tuning of Teradata stored procedures.  • Implemented complex mapping such as SLOWLY CHANGING DIMENSIONS (Type II). Data Analyst Nationwide Insurance - Dublin, OH May 2011 to September 2014 Claims Solutions Reporting is responsible for development, maintenance and scheduling of business reports to Claims adjusters using the data available in DB2 and Teradata. These reports are used by Claims Directors, Managers and associates to perform sanity check on the claims and policies and relevant claims data.    Roles and Responsibilities  • Involved in gathering analyzing and documenting business requirements functional requirements and data specifications.  • Worked with BA's to understand business requirements and created functional specifications documents along with mapping documents.  • Understanding the warehouse Star Schema Model and wrote SQL queries joining multiple dimension and fact tables.  • Analyzed the data using statistical features in tableau to develop Trend Analysis reports.  • Created visually compelling and actionable interactive reports and dashboards in Tableau and worked on performance tuning of Tableau.  • Performed data mining on Claims data using complex SQL queries and discovered claims pattern.  • Migration of existing reports (custom sql) from Teradata to Oracle.  • Involved in extensive DATA validation by writing several complex SQL queries on Teradata SQL Assistant and Involved in back-end testing.  • Created individual Worksheets and incorporated it into Dashboards with the appropriate filters.  • Prepared design documents and also the report mockups for the offshore development.  • Design and development of cognos reporting solutions across multiple releases, Which included Cognos Insight reports, Packages for Ad-Hoc reporting.  • Designed & developed reports using Cognos Report Studio, Query Studio.  • Design & develop multiple reports using various templates like list reports, crosstab reports and chart reports.  • Worked with various teams and users to gather business requirements.  • Performed unit and system testing, troubleshooting and bug fixing in Prod and QA environments.  • Generated Weekly, Monthly, Subscriptions, Dashboard reports for the analysis of managers and end users. Education Bachelors in Electronics and Communications Engineering in Electronics and Communications Engineering JNTU Masters in Electrical Engineering in Electrical Engineering Lamar University Skills DB2, SQL SERVER, SQL SERVER 2012, ORACLE, PL/SQL, HTML, SQL, XML, Javascript Additional Information Technical Skills    ETL Informatica 9.X  BI Tools  Cognos Business Intelligence 10.1 (Report Studio, Query Studio, Analysis Studio, Event Studio, Framework Manager), SSIS, SSRS    CRM Microsoft Dynamics 365/2016/2015 Online & On-Premise  Databases Oracle 11g/10g/9i, SQL Server 2012, DB2, Teradata  Languages SQL, PL/SQL, VBA, C, Perl, C#.Net  Scripting And Web Technologies JavaScript, HTML, XML, CSS  Other Tools Teradata SQL Assistant, TOAD, AQT