Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Systems Developer Northville, MI Skills  - REST;  - MVC;  - Java;  - Spring;  - Hibernate;  - C#;  - .Net;  - Entity Framework;  - LINQ;  -SQL;  -HTML5;  - CSS3/ SASS;  - Bootstrap;  - Javascript;   -JQuery;  -Git;  -Team Foundation Server;  - Jenkis;  https://github.com/shaldipur  https://www.linkedin.com/in/sachin-haldipur/ Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Developer Valassis, Inc - Livonia, MI April 2017 to Present Currently leading a team of 2 developers that develop REST API’s with Java, Hibernate and Spring MVC that connect Valassis systems with Dalim Enterprise Solution, a third party digital asset management and production tracking system.    Lead developer on project where Valassis partnered with the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children.  Software was developed using .NET MVC and Entity Framework. The software that was developed increased the scope of distribution of missing child ads from 6 regions to 50 states, leading to a substantial increase in missing child recoveries beginning in 2018 and continuing to today. Contract Software Developer Insight Global - Troy, MI January 2017 to April 2017 Responsibilities at client site (Suburban Collection) included the development of logistics software applications for General Motors. Technologies used were Angular, Bootstrap, Laravel, PHP, JavaScript, HTML, MySQL and Git.  Contract Software Developer TEKSystems - Westland, MI September 2016 to December 2016 Responsibilities included the development of business process management software solutions at client site using technologies such as .NET MVC, jQuery, Windows Forms, Entity Framework, SQL Server Management Studio, Visual Studio and Team Foundation Server. Contract Systems Developer ExxonMobil - Curitiba, BR May 2015 to May 2016 Social  Responsibilities included process analysis and database  enhancements for revenue accounting system application  (RAS). Modified SQL stored procedures, queried databases,  https://github.com/shaldipur monitored and repaired software failures. Analyzed and modified application level code (VB6) that governed the RAS  user interface.    https://www.linkedin.com/in/sachin-haldipur/ Software Developer HSBC Global Technology - Curitiba, BR August 2012 to May 2015 Worked as software developer on the Global Identity and Access  Management team. This was an international project spanning  several countries including Brazil, India, U.S.A. and U.K.    Developed identity and access management interfaces for managing employee identities and systems access.  Technologies used were SQL, .NET, C#, Javascript, Dojo Toolkit,  HTML, CSS, JSON, REST, Rational Team Concert. Used Agile  development methodologies (Scrum). Education B.S. in Computer Science University of Illinois - Livonia, MI April 2017 to Present B.A. in Liberal Studies University of Michigan - Dearborn, MI Skills .NET (8 years), C# (8 years), Java (1 year), MODEL VIEW CONTROLLER (Less than 1 year), REST (3 years), XML, SQL Server (2 years), SQL (4 years), Javascript (8 years), HTML (8 years), jQuery (8 years), HTML 5, Git, CSS, PHP, ASP, MySQL