Frontend Developer Frontend <span class="hl">Developer</span> Frontend Developer - Verizon Media Santa Clara, CA ? 8.5 years of experience in Software Development, Web application development, Single Page  Applications, UI development, Web UI analysis.  ? Proficient in making web pages cross-browser compatible, while debugging existing coding and  implementing graphic optimization through browser-safe palettes and file size management.  ? Extensive experience designing with XHTML, HTML (4/5), CSS (2/3),SASS,LESS, Jade.  ? Experience working on Nodejs Application using Express  ? Exposure to making Web Applications ADA compliance using ARIA (Accessible Rich Internet  Applications) attributes.  ? Experience applying the latest development approaches including MVC in the browser, event-driven  applications using AJAX, Object Oriented JavaScript,JSON, JSONP, and XML.  ? Experience in creating style guides, best practices and setting UI standards for Consumer/Enterprise  applications.  ? Implemented UI components using ReactJS for SPA's and for Company wide platform.  ? Extensive experience in developing web page quickly and effectively using AngularJS, HTML5  and CSS3.  ? Experienced in designing various forms, tooltips, menus, tabs, widgets that support drag-and-  drop, animated effects, date and time selection.  ? Experienced in working with SOAP and RESTful Web Services and understanding of HTTP and  REST architecture.  ? Excellent written, oral, and presentational communication skills.Experience in Version Control  systems like SVN and GIT.  ? Used JIRA for bug tracking and issue tracking.  ? Experienced with various IDE's, including Visual Studio Code, WebStorm and Eclipse.  ? Designing, coding, testing, implementing, and outsourcing management for multiple projects. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Frontend Developer Verizon Media - Sunnyvale, CA February 2018 to Present Project:  ? Developed Dashboards modules for E-commerce platform    Responsibilities:  ? Implemented Dashboards for Managing Catalog, Orders and Taxes for E-commerce platform  software used by Merchants to run their business efficiently and effectively.  ? Leveraged ReactJS for component development and Redux for State management.  ? Used Jest/Mocha for Unit testing of UI Components and making sure modules code coverage  standards are met.  ? Working in an agile environment with UX and Product team where requirements are constant;y being implemented, tested and improved.  Environment: ReactJS, Redux, Javascript (ES6), lodash, SASS, CSS/CSS3, HTML5, JSON Parsing, Visual Studio Code Frontend Developer TPLink Research Corp - San Jose, CA October 2018 to February 2019 Project:  ? Kasasmart.com - a TPLink brand Website    Responsibilities:  ? Created website for Kasasmart - a TPLink brand and leader in bringing the smart home to life with around 2.9 million users.  ? Developed components for website using VueJS , Javascript(ES6) and Jquery which can be added  from Prismic(CMS) easily by Marketing and Content management team while updating anything on website.  ? Used both Server side rendering (SSR) and Client side Rendering(CSR) for faster loading and  SEO optimization.  ? Worked with UX team to finalize design for certain components and pages.  ? Created Website Template Layouts using Jekyll, Bulma CSS framework, HTML5, SCSS.  ? Making the product completely responsive for Desktop, Tablet and Mobile users  Environment: VueJS, Bulma,Javascript (ES6), Jquery, Jekyll, Prismic(CMS), SASS, CSS/CSS3, HTML5, WebGL, JSON Parsing, IntelliJ Frontend Developer Wells Fargo - San Francisco, CA January 2018 to October 2018 Project:  ? Wells Fargo Zelle Application and Edocs (Online documents management portal)    Responsibilities:  ? Worked on products in Digital Channels Product line which enhances and improved customer  experience for the Wells Fargo Online Sales and Marketing Platform that grossed over $5 billion in sales.  ? Developing and modifying custom global components that will be used by multiple applications  within Wells Fargo Online Sales and Marketing Platform. These components will be  accessibility-ready following WC3 standards, responsive, and supported all major devices and browsers.  ? Experience working closely with business, DXD (UX) leadership, Business Analyst (BA) and QA  to implement new designs for Global React Components.  ? Responsible for Wells Fargo Zelle and Edocs migration development using ReactJS, JSX, Less, ImmutableJS and redux for state management.  ? Involved in continuous development of Legacy Zelle Application using Jquery, Jade, HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3.  ? Implemented passive biometrics tools from Nudata and IBM for real-time fraud detection in Zelle.  ? Working with Level access to make application ADA Compliance using ARIA (Accessible Rich  Internet Applications) attributes for making an application accessible to people with disabilities.    Environment: ReactJS, Redux, ImmutableJS, Javascript (ES6),Jquery,Jade,Enzyme,Mocha, NodeJS, ExpressJS, LESS ,CSS/CSS3,HTML5,WebGL, JSON Parsing, Visual Studio Code Javascript Developer Telenav Corp - Santa Clara, CA April 2017 to November 2017 Project:  ? Developed NodeJS Web Application Navigation tool for QA to test Telenav Data before they get  released with Vehicles GPS to end user.    Responsibilities:  ? Developed the User Interactive NodeJS RESTFul API Web Application navigation tool like Google maps using web technologies HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, Javascript/ES5/ES6, JQuery,  SASS, JSN, Typescript, Leaflet.js,NodeJS, ExpressJS.  ? Using third party API (Application programming interface) and creating RESTFul web services to fetch data from Telenav Database and have them displayed in UI for Analysis purposes.  ? Worked on Javascript SDK ( Software Development Kit) to be used in Telenav to get data from backend services.  ? Creating UI design specifications, developing prototypes and conducting web usability tests.  ? Writing up UI Views component using ReactJS for future release of Tool.  ? Using Axios to handle AJAX calls in react components  ? Created cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant CSS-based page layouts and adaptive/responsive design for all latest browser.    Environment: NodesJS, ExpressJS, ReactJS,Javascript (ES6),Leaflet.js, Bootstrap, Browserify, TypeScript ,WebGL, SASS ,CSS ,HTML5 ,JSON Parsing, Sublime, Visual Studio Code Frontend Developer Cisco - San Jose, CA May 2016 to April 2017 Project:  ? Worked on the core application of CISCO's Data Virtualization division to add new features and do a complete redesign for both the Desktop and Web UI.    Responsibilities:  ? Implementation of new prototype of the web version of Studio in AngularJS.  ? Designed and coded the new Login Screens with advanced UI controls, with NodeJS, Angular, serviced by a RESTful API.  ? Design and development of web pages using HTML, CSS including Ajax controls and XML.  ? Caching and optimization of queries.Caching mechanism ranging from proprietary file structures  to standard relational database management system (RDBMS) tables and also include caching of data in-memory.  ? Design and code the new user management screens with a RESTful API with Angular, Bootstrap.    Environment: Node.JS,, Rest,WebGL,CSS/CSS3, Core Java, Server,TypeScript,Bower,Grunt. Software Engineer II , Idelji Corp., CA March 2014 to November 2016 Project:  ? Revamp complete Web Viewpoint product in AngularJS with improved Front-end features in a Test-Driven Development (TDD) setup with an end result of 70% code optimization.  Responsibilities:  ? Lead the team to Evaluating enhancement requests and releases for Web Viewpoint (a Hewlett  Packard product), a web based operation management and performance monitoring tool for HP's  NonStop Servers.  ? Development of enhancements to existing software and participating in the engineering and development specification for new software and its quality.  ? Providing product support for Web Viewpoint and its plug-ins: Pathway, Event Analyzer and Storage Analyzer, WASAP.  ? Ensuring high quality standards are maintained on all products, services and asset management.  ? Responsible for the release of Software and documentation to QA for Sprint release test phases and the final product test phase.  ? Mentoring team members, prioritising bug fixes for the release of Web Viewpoint and its plug-ins.    Environment: HTML5,CSS3,SASS,AngularJS, RESTFull Operations,Webstorm,UI  Bootstrap,C,C++,JSON,JSONP,Core Java Computer System Analyst / Software Engineer I , Idelji Corp., CA December 2011 to March 2014 Project:  ? Remodeled "Manual Licensing Web Portal", which helps all the customers in generating licenses.  ? Released two versions of Web Viewpoint with new features such as Message Delivery  System,Adding more security to SaaS application.  Responsibilities:  ? Design and implemented Installation tool for HP Web Viewpoint using Java with JavaFX for UI.  ? Developing features depending on Survey Done for Clients using HP Blade Server in different  countries.  ? Developing Language and Date specific features keeping in mind clients viewing our product in different languages from different parts of the world.  ? Fixing bugs using Firebug tool to figure out issues faced by clients in different country.  ? Performing Unit testing on every bug being fixed before releasing the version to QA and documenting the new features in User Guide.  Environment: C#,SASS,TACL,Vanilla Javascript,AJAX, Java,JavaFX,C,C++,XML,HTML,CSS3,.Net Graduate Intern NeuroSim Lab, Institute of Creative Technologies, CA January 2011 to August 2011 Implemented an algorithm to detect Line Of sight of a user while the user is wearing HMD to look  at that object in the space.(under Virtual Patient Project).  ? Integrated Emotiv EPOC Neuroheadset (Brain Computer Interface) device with Humvee Simulator  to analyze the emotions and performance of user wearing it. (Under VRCPAT project)  Environment: OpenGL,Processing,Javascript,AJAX,C Education Masters of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science University of Southern California - May, CA May 2011 Bachelors of Science in Information Technology in Information Technology Punjab Technical University July 2008 Skills C#, C++, Html, Javascript, Bootstrap, Front End, UI, React, Front-End