Senior Programmer Analyst Senior Programmer Analyst Senior Programmer Analyst - Experis US, Inc Austin, TX • Over 9 years of experience in IT industry with diversified exposure in Software Process Engineering, designing & building a Web Application using Java/J2EE Technology & open source technologies.  • Strong experience in Core Java 1.8.  • Strong experience in Spring MVC, IOC, AOP modules.  • Experience in implementing Multithreading and Thread Registry.  • Experience in working with Spring-boot applications  • Knowledge in implementing SOAP and REST Web Services based in Service Oriented Architecture (SOA).  • Worked in NodeJS, JSP, Angular JS, JQuery, AJAX, JSON, JSTL and aria tags.  • Tremendous knowledge in working with databases like Oracle, DB2, My SQL, mongoDB.  • Experience in doing Performance testing.  • Experience in Waterfall and Agile/Scrum software development methodologies and used Rally to track userstories  • Experience in working with JDBC and hibernate.  • Experience in working with XML technologies like XML, XSL, XSD, DTD, XSLT and parsing XML with SAX & DOM parsers.  • Experience in using ANT, Maven tools to compile, package and deploy the components to the Application Servers in different environments.  • Experience in writing Junit and Mockito  • Experience in using GIT version control and GIT commands  • Experience in writing shell scripts. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Programmer Analyst Experis US, Inc April 2017 to Present Project: NetAcad - Virtuosa Delivery System  Description:  Virtuoso delivery is a web-based, enterprise level application that delivers universally accessible learning content worldwide via the internet. Virtuoso delivery provides platform integration with Authoring and Management systems to render learning content, Personalized Feedback, Survey results, and detailed exam scores.  Responsibilities:  • Implemented Thread-registry to monitor the external API calls  • Incorporated Accessibility for all the UI screens  • Developed Unit testcase using Junit and Mockito  • Involved in Analyzing, debugging and fixing issues in the application  • Involved in doing Performance testing.  • Involved in working with in-memory cache - Redis.  • Involved in doing build and deployment for all the environments.    Environment: Java 1.8, REST Web Services, Spring - MVC IOC AOP, Redis, Apache & Tomcat Server, Oracle, Mongo DB, Docker, Jenkins, GIT, JAWS Senior Developer Computer Sciences Corporation India Private Limited - Chennai, Tamil Nadu February 2017 to March 2017 Project: RCR MIPS contact seller global expansion  Description:  Seller contact pages in PayPal site ease buyer to contact seller in case of any purchased product issues. This project mainly focusses on migrating the existing UI layer to provide new and rich UI experiences to the global users and also to migrate from the legacy CGI based web services to Java based REST service.    Responsibilities:  • Developed reusable UI components using Angular JS  • Developed REST web service and business components using Java  • Worked in Agile and Scrum methodology and involved in all the Scrum and retro meetings.  • Used JUnit for test driven development and perform unit testing  • Debug and fix the defects during testing phase.  • Responsible for code review, maintaining application flow, debug, build and deployment  Environment: Java, Angular JS, SOAP and REST Web Services, Spring MVC. Senior Developer PayPal April 2016 to January 2017 Project: Risk Post Transaction  Description:  Risk Post-Transaction assesses the risk in financial losses , breach in security and compliances after the completion of transaction. In addition to the same Post-Transaction also supports issue filings, notifications, and data operations. This widely used by various risk systems such as Dispute Resolution system, Case Management system, Resolutions and Protection system, Recoveries, as well as File Disclosures and Suspicious Activity Report (SAR) Filing.  Responsibilities:  • Extensively used SOAP and REST web services  • Worked in developing backend components using node.js  • Worked in Agile and Scrum methodology and involved in all the Scrum and retro meetings.  • Deployment of application in Linux environment.  • Analyzing the impact in Change Requests.  • Debug and fix the defects during testing phase.  • Responsible for code review, maintaining application flow, debug, build and deployment.  • Used JUnit for test driven development and perform unit testing  Environment: Java, SOAP and REST Web Services, Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Node.js, Maven, GIT, Jenkins, Agile Methodology Senior Developer Cognizant Technology Solutions - Chennai, Tamil Nadu April 2015 to March 2016 Project: Systematic Tracking of Exchanges in Procurement (STEP)  Description: Procurement application is one which helps agencies from different countries to interact with high profile bank users and to manage about the activities which have been performed by various contractors and suppliers who have been mapped to the agencies. This application is mainly used to replace existing email communications of agencies with bank to track the process of all the activities.  Responsibilities:  • Developed Spring framework based backend services in Agile-Scrum methodology.  • Using the UML methodology, developed Use Case Diagrams, Class Diagrams and Sequence Diagrams to represent the dynamic view of the system  • Extensively used SOAP UI for consuming and testing the web services.  • Extensively used JUnit for Unit Testing.  • Worked on refactoring the code for better performance  • Worked on Maven build tool for building the application  • Provided support to other dependent teams such as SAP, Cordys and DB  Environment: Java, Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Spring Aspect, SOAP Web Service, JSTL, JavaScript, jQuery, JSP, AJAX, HDIV Security Software Engineer End Client October 2013 to March 2015 Project: AON Hewitt Electronic File Processing  Description: AON Hewitt presents a new opportunity to receive Seniority Plus applications via an electronic file. A new process is developed to receive and process the file, capture and store new required fields within the file, and produce outbound weekly reports to be Ftp'd to Aon Hewitt. The business objective of AON Hewitt File Processing Project is to develop a data exchange process with AON Hewitt  Responsibilities:  • Involved in development from Scratch  • Created SOAP based Web Service and Orchestrated these services in various processes  • Analyzed defects and fixed problems and Involved in peer review of test results.  • Co-ordinated with Onsite team for timely delivery  • Used JDBC for data retrieval from the database  • Used JUnit for testing individual functionality  • Provided support during a release deployment  Environment: Java, SOAP web service, Oracle Software Engineer Capgemini India Private Ltd - Chennai, Tamil Nadu October 2012 to September 2013 Project: Linear Fulfillment Environment (LFE)  Description: Enhanced Linear Fulfillment will provide Batch Credit Services with a customizable, scalable, and high-performance linear fulfillment system and get data from mainframe using ETL tool as MDR format into open system. The BFE is an open systems application used to define promotions, input selection criteria, generate job schedules to run the promotions, and control and track the jobs as they process and load it to mainframe by using ETL.  Responsibilities:  • Involvement in all phases of the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  • Involved in the team discussions regarding the modeling, architectural and performance issues.  • Involved in Low level design document preparation.  • Involved in developing User Interface  • Analyzed defects and fixed problems and Involved in peer review of test results.  • Involved in writing JUnit test cases.  Environment: Eclipse 3.5, Java 6, JavaScript, JSP, Oracle 10g, Servlets, Spring 3, Hibernate Software Engineer Dun and Bradstreet Transunion Analytic and Decision Services Private Ltd - Chennai, Tamil Nadu June 2011 to September 2012 Chennai  End Client: TransUnion, USA  June 2011 - September 2012  Software Engineer  Project: Health Level 7 Enrichment (HL7)  Description: Hospital/Pharmacy submits the patient information online. The information may be complete or incomplete. Credit, democratic and historical details along with the insurance eligibility and current coverage are consolidate and sent to HL7 platform. This is then sent to the Hospitals.  Responsibilities:  • Understanding HL7 Platform  • Worked on JSP development involving creation of custom tags, java beans to show dynamic contents.  • Writing validation rules for front-end screens.  • Performed storage and retrieval of data in MySQL using JDBC.  • Involved in unit and functional testing various components of the application.  • Involved in writing SQL queries.  • Provided development support for all the testing phases and deployment.  Environment: Eclipse 3.5, Java 6, JavaScript, JSP.JDBC. Software Engineer End Client August 2010 to May 2011 Project: User Management using LDAP  Description: Manage Employee information, access privilege and sites for employees through LDAP which is used to maintain the distributed directory information services over an Internet.  Responsibilities:  • Analyzing and understanding the internal organization.  • Involved in designing and development of the application  • Used UML diagrams - Class and sequence diagrams  • Involved in writing db queries  • Unit testing - Manual  • Used Maven to build the application  Environment: Eclipse 3.5, Java 6, JSP, My SQL, Maven Education Bachelor of Engineering in Computer Science and Engineering Karpagam College of Engineering 2010 Skills java (7 years), spring mvc, IOC, AOP, Spring Boot (5 years), hibernate (4 years), Redis (1 year), Mongo DB (1 year), SQL (7 years), HTML4, CSS, javascript, ajax, jquery (4 years), MVC