Senior Salesforce Developer/Admin Senior Salesforce <span class="hl">Developer</span>/Admin Senior Salesforce Developer/Admin - ActioNet Phoenix, AZ • Over 9+ Years of hands on experience in Software Development insurance, application security and healthcare domain as a Salesforce admin/ developer including analysis, requirement gathering, design, development, testing, and deployment.  • Experience in the software development lifecycle (SDLC).  • Strong Implementation and Integration experience using Custom objects, Triggers, workflow rules, Visualflows, approvals, S-Controls, Visual Force Pages, and Apex classes.  • Experience in building Schedule Apex, Batch Apex, SOQL, SOSL, SOQL Aggregate functions.  • Key player in migrations and deployment of code from one environment to other using Force.com IDE deployment wizard.  • Expertise in performing data migration from legacy system to Salesforce.  • Good experience in integrating external applications with Salesforce.com both Inbound and Outbound by writing Apex SOAP and REST Web Services and Apex Callouts and Integrations through WSDL, Jitterbit, Dell Boomi.  • Experience working with App Exchange products like Nintex Drawloop for generating the PDF documents and Informatica Address Doctor for Address Validation.  • Worked on various AppExchange products like DocuSign, Dupe Blocker, Conga Composer and Apttus according to the needs of the organization.  • Experienced in web technologies like HTML, XML, CSS, JSP, JavaScript, jQuery.  • Proficient in Data Migration from Traditional Applications to Salesforce Using Data Loader Utility on Demand.  • Strong Requirements gathering experience using JAD Sessions & Conducting User Interviews, and preparing functional documents like Use Cases, Software Requirements Specifications.  • Good Understanding and Experience working in Sales cloud, Marketing Cloud and Service Cloud.  • Experience in Development of lightening components and Aura framework for extended look and feel of visual force pages.  • Experience in various Salesforce implementations through third party tools.  • Experience in using the Workbench tool for SOQL queries, SOSL and the REST Explorer.  • Experience in Administration setup like manage Users, Security Controls, Data Management, Creating Roles, Profiles, and Integration with Salesforce web services.  • Worked on Exact target/Marketing Cloud and Journey/Audience Builder for email campaign.  • Worked on Salesforce Marketing Cloud Connector V5.  • Responsible for Direct Interaction and Communication with the clients, requirement gathering, analysis, work delegation, development, and deployment of the software projects.  • Experience in all phases of SDLC like including requirements gathering, analysis, designing, coding, testing, integration, documentation, and extensive experience in Agile and Waterfall Methodologies.  • Efficient team member with excellent work/time management skills, excellent leadership, analytical, communication and interpersonal skills and ability to work under strict deadlines. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Salesforce Developer/Admin ActioNet - Baltimore, MD October 2018 to Present Description: Actionet has established a Salesforce practice that serves multiple customers in the Health services space. The Salesforce practice provide rapid requirements development based on in-depth business understanding of Federal clients, optimal application of Technical solutions available in Salesforce, rapid build, deploy, efficient operations and maintenance.  The Centres for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS), is part of the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS). The programs that are administered include Medicare, Medicaid, the Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP), and the Health Insurance Marketplace. CMS has introduced a new Model to support practices along the continuum of their transformation to deliver better health and smarter spending.    Responsibilities:  • Worked on customer portals and communities' administration.  • Gathered business requirements by communicating with user team and created Custom Dashboards for community managers and gave accessibility to dashboards for authorized people.  • Created Lightning Components, added CSS and Design Parameters which improves performance.  • Enabled Aura Framework and added Aura Attributes/Handlers for Events / Logic & Interactions  • Developed Lightning apps using Lightning Components and made them compatible with salesforce1 mobile app.  • Created Visualforce pages for custom login and configuration of communities.  • Configured Salesforce.com to meet business requirements including fields, page layouts, workflows, approvals, and validation rules.  • Used SOQL and SOSL for querying the objects. Created many Email Templates and Mail Merge Templates and was involved in doing the mail merge for different standard and custom objects.  • Added Lightning Component to Lighting Pages and Record Pages and worked on Apex classes, Visualforce Pages, Controller classes and Apex Triggers for various functional needs in the application.  • Implemented SFDC Integration using REST/SOAP Web Service API'S. Integrated the SOAP/REST API based Web Services on Demand for extracting the data from external systems.  • Developed Visualforce pages using components like Action Function, Page Block, Input Field, Action Support, Data Table, Data list, Command Link and Command Button.  • Designed and configured PARDOT integration with Salesforce for Supply team with lightning.  • Integrated with Salesforce by using Marketing cloud connector (V5).  • Implemented Exact Target marketing automation suite for emails, landing pages, camping web analytics, lead scoring, assert management, and trigger workflow.  • Performed Salesforce.com configuration activities creating Users, Roles, Profiles, Organization Wide Defaults, Permission Sets, Public Groups, and Queues.  • Used Salesforce Connect to access product information stored on an external system and Utilized Lightning Connect to get real time data from external system.  • Developed complex validation rules, formula fields according to the application requirements. Created page layouts, search layouts to organize fields, custom links, related lists, and other components on a record detail and edit pages.  • Implemented Email to lead, Web to lead functionalities and Data Loader to bulk load leads data into Salesforce.com from other databases and CSV files.  • Used Force.com IDE for development of Visual Force Pages, Apex classes, Triggers and debugging and analyzing logs.  • Used SOAP based Apex Web Services to send/update data from Salesforce to an external order tracking system.  • Deployed application from Sandbox to Production environments using Change Set, Eclipse, and Force.com Migration tool.  • Assist the Support team on Production issues as a system SME.  • Coordinate with others on bi-weekly Sprints to complete releases using Agile methodologies    Environment: Salesforce.com, Apex, Visualforce (Pages, Component & Controllers), Lightning (components and controllers), Marketing cloud, Communities, REST/SOAP API Web Services, Pages, HTML, Java Script, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, jQuery, Data Migration, Pardot, SOQL, SOSL. Salesforce Administrator North Eastern University - Boston, MA September 2016 to October 2018 Description: The project aim is to ensure that essential services are provided to the university students and community people by focusing on quality software using best architecture, customization, maintenance, and development processes on a day-to-day basis. It also involves the cross-functional teams to establish and support the application development and test environments.    Responsibilities:  • Designed and deployed the Custom objects, Entity-Relationship data model, Formulas, Validation rules on the objects, Page layouts, Custom tabs, Components, Roles, Profiles, Public Groups, Permission Sets, Custom Settings, and Labels to suit to the needs of the application.  • Created users, roles, public groups and implemented role hierarchies, sharing rules and record level permissions to manage sharing access among different users.  • Worked on Salesforce Communities and Customer Portals.  • Designed Complex logic involving Apex Controllers (Standard and Custom Controllers) and Triggers to support the forecasting application confined to Governor Limits.  • Implemented Time Based Work flow to trigger an Apex Class to run at a specific time in a day/week.  • Designed a Batch Class to handle bulk logic and invoked the batch Class from Trigger Context asynchronously.  • Worked on Account Management involving Integration with External Legacy System using SOAP based Web Service Callouts using Mulesoft as the middleware.  • Performed Asynchronous Callouts using the Future Annotation and executed the future methods from a Trigger.  • Implemented the Standard Set Controller and its attributes to paginate the records in Visual Force Pages.  • Implemented the Single and Mass Email Messaging feature to automate the Emails based on business logic.  • Customized the Out of the box Lead Conversion functionality to support business requirement with a combination of Triggers, Classes, and Visual Force Pages.  • Implemented Test classes to support Code Coverage for deployment to production and performed smoke tests before QE Validation.  • Involved in Data Migration Activities to handle bulk loads using APEX Data Loader.  • Designed and deployed Workflows, Validation rules, Approval Processes, Process Builder for automating business logic.  • Created Page Layouts, Record Types, and Search Layouts to organize fields, custom links, related lists, and other components on record pages.  • Worked on Nintex Drawloop for PDF document generation.  • Involved in integrating Address Doctor using app exchange product called Informatica Address Validation.  • Performed IDE, Change Sets, and AutoRABIT and ANT Script deployments as needed and validated the components before deployment to ensure a smooth process.  • Created test scenarios on Sandbox environment and migrated code to deployment upon successful testing.    Environment: Salesforce.com, Salesforce Communities, Apex, Visual Force (Pages, Component & Controllers), Validation Rules, Workflow Rules, Approval Process, Process Builder, Data Loader, Workbench, Eclipse IDE Plug-in, Drawloop, AutoRABIT, Change Sets, Checkmarx, Team Foundation Server Salesforce Developer/Admin CSCGLOBAL - Wilmington, DE August 2014 to September 2016 Description: The project aim is to migrate the Data, sales & service process to salesforce from the legacy systems using the best architecture and configuration. CSC has a large portfolio of products for the legal services, including both retail and individual across the world.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in Salesforce.com Application Setup activities and customized the apps to match the functional needs of the organization.  • Created field mapping between Legacy CRM system and salesforce to migrate Account, Contact, Leads and Contact Address related data from Legacy CRM system to salesforce.  • Performed data migration from Oracle to Salesforce.com.  • Developed Lightning pages with skuid and AURA components for rich UI.  • Service Cloud enhancements - Portal entitlement wizard changes.  • Created user Roles and Profiles, security controls and shared settings.  • Implemented the Marketing process to remove dupe contacts, Leads. Auto Merge Leads, Contacts if already exists.  • Integration of Sales cloud with external information systems using SOAP API web services.  • Integrated Steel brick CPQ for the extensive functionality.  • Integrated outlook with salesforce to sync leads, contacts from outlook directly.  • Integrated Conga Composer to generate templates and reports.  • Created custom objects, Batch APEX, SOSL & SOQL queries, Visual force Pages, Triggers, and Validation rules to help track internal help desk cases and lead qualification.  • Created the Workflows for automated lead routing, lead escalation.  • Integrated Outlook for salesforce to synchronize the leads to keep track the activities on the go for the users.  • Worked on Approval process, Lightning Process builder and workflows to automate business process without depending on custom code development.  • Developed dynamic Salesforce.com Visual force pages using Apex page functions and actions, designing them using SKUID, HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Used Force.com IDE for development of Visual Force Pages, Apex classes, Triggers and debugging and analyzing logs.  • Used SOAP based Apex Web Services to send/update data from Salesforce to an external order tracking system.  • Deployed application from Sandbox to Production environments using Change Set, Eclipse, and Force.com Migration tool.  • Scheduled reports & Dashboards according to the business needs of the organization.  • Coordinate with others on bi-weekly Sprints to complete releases using agile methodologies.    Environment: Eclipse IDE, Controllers, Visual Force Pages, Data Loader, Workflows, Triggers, CSS, SKUID, Web Services API, Dupe Blocker, Force.com Explorer, Box, Steel brick CPQ, Conga Composer, Marketing Cloud, Outlook for integration. Salesforce Developer Cox Automotive - Atlanta, GA July 2012 to August 2014 Responsibilities:  • Actively played a technical role during planning, design, implementation and maintenance phase in every sprint.  • Managed Sales cloud, Service cloud and Community cloud for the application.  • Developed Apex triggers, Apex classes with SOQL and SOSL queries, and visualforce pages.  • Designed ready to use pages with Lightning components for dynamic picklists, record pages and for Outlook.  • Created new Visualforce page for related list buttons in the classic to make them work in Lightning.  • Configured and used source control tool GIT to maintain repositories for various releases.  • Used REST API for calling core API, callouts to capture cases from data source.  • Created and Managed Dashboards and Reports in communities.  • Managed access level to each object for different profiles in org.  • Developed workflow and validation rules as per the requirement needs.  • Created Record types, Page layouts, sharing settings, Search layouts to organize fields, custom links, permission sets, support processes and other components on record pages.  • Worked with External Objects for Lightning Connect  • Worked on Security models and permissionsets are implemented in the Apex classes for Talent Profile where most of the profiles cannot able to view others.  • Worked with Email to case functionality on support pages.  • Created and replaced fields, picklist and used custom settings and custom labels for using dynamic values in apex classes.  • Resolved bugs on communities and service cloud during on call.  • Active member in code review, testing all JIRA tickets and for the team and developed test sets for testing the functionalities, which I have worked on.  • Used Checkmarx for scanning the reports before every sprint release and resolved issues reported after scanning the release source.  • Used workbench for retrieving data in Metadata format.  • Bitbucket for version control and bamboo for deployments  • Update of confluence pages prior to each release.    ENVIRONMENT: Force.com Platform, Salesforce, Custom/Standard Objects, Custom Tabs, Controllers, Page Layouts, Service Cloud, Communities, Profiles, SOQL/SOSL Queries, Validation Rules, Workflow Rules, Triggers, Apex Classes, Reports, Force.com, Email-to-case, web-to-case, Security Controls, Exceptions, Sandbox, Bitbucket. Software Developer Delta Airlines - Eagan, MN June 2010 to July 2012 Description: This project aims to design the banking system module, for individual, private, business customers. It has checking account, credit card, loan, mortgage features for individual and more options like investment opportunities for business and cooperate customers.    Responsibilities:  • Gathered and analyzed the requirements and converted them into User Requirement Specifications and Functional Requirement Specifications.  • Involved in Full Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC). Used Agile Methodology to develop the entire application.  • Designed and implemented the User Interface using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, and SQL Server.  • Developed Interfaces using JSP based on the Users, Roles, and Permissions. Screen options were displayed on User permissions. This was coded using Custom Tags in JSP using Tag Libraries.  • Created Web services using Advanced J2EE technologies to communicate with external systems.  • Designed and developed database in Oracle.  • Worked in all the modules of the application, which involved front-end presentation logic developed using JavaScript.  • Developed CSS style sheets to give gradient effects. Developed page layouts, navigation, and icons.  • Implemented login page using HTML, CSS, jQuery, AJAX and JSON.  • Used jQuery plugins auto complete, validation, drag and drop and more exceptionally.  • Involved in developing various generic JavaScript functions used for validations.  • Produced content pages with CSS layout and style markup presentations and used JavaScript methods and properties.  • Used XML for developing a dynamic and flexible system for handling data.  • Packaged and deployed the entire application code to an integration testing environment for all the releases.  • Performed the role of support engineer for the internal users and helped them in getting used to the application, generated reports, and saved them for further access to the users.  • Developed different SOAP services and Web Services using XSD, WSDL and SOAP.  • Debugged the application using Firebug to traverse the documents and DOM Functions using Firefox IE Developer Tool bar for IE.  • Worked closely with QA team and fixed QA bugs as well as production issues.  • Worked on cross browser compatibility issues and fix the bugs pertaining to various browsers  • Focused on Test Driven Development thereby creating detailed JUnit tests for every single piece of functionality before writing the functionality.    Environment: JSP, Servlets, Struts, Hibernate, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, REST, JUnit, XML, SASS, DOM, SQL Server, WebLogic 10.3.1(Oracle App server), Apache Axis 2.x, Webservices, Eclipse, Agile. Education Bachelor's Skills ECLIPSE, J2EE, JAVA, jQuery, SOAP Additional Information Technical Skills:    Salesforce.com Technologies  Force.com IDE, Custom Objects, Reports, Dashboards, Workflow and Approvals, Validation rules, Migration, Visualforce pages, Apex language, Apex Classes and Controllers, Batch Apex, Apex Data Loader, App Exchange, Force.com Platform (Sandbox, and Production), SOQL, SOSL, Eclipse    Salesforce Tools Eclipse, Force.com Eclipse IDE Plug-in, Apex Data Loader, Workbench, Force.com Platform, Checkmarx, AutoRABIT  Databases Oracle, MS SQL Server  Programming Languages C, C++, Core Java, J2EE, PL/SQL, SQL  Web Technologies & Web Services HTML, XHTML, XML, CSS3, Java Script, jQuery, WSDL, SOAP API, REST API  Integration Tools Knowledge Tools, Apttus CPQ and CLM, App Exchange Tools, Informatica, Cloud- Address Doctor & Drawloop  Force.com Configuration  SFDC Standard Object Configuration: Campaigns, Leads, Accounts, Contacts, Opportunities, Price Books, Products, Assets, Contracts, Cases, Solutions, Ideas, Cases, Solutions, Ideas, Queues, Quotes and Custom Object development, Field creation, Page Layout creation/editing, Related list customization, Record Types, Field Level and Object level security, role hierarchies, sharing models, Workflow: time-dependent actions, field updates, email alerts, task creation, Reports, Dashboards, Formula Fields and Cross Object Formula Fields, Configuration Skills, Overall User Management.    Other Tools MS Access, Eclipse IDE, Cast Iron, BoomiAtomSphere Pervasive Data Integrator, Jitter Bit, Apache Tomcat