Software Engineer <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Software Engineer Folsom, CA I am a software developer with a passion for making clean, extensible, and easily  maintainable solutions. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Engineer Keeper Security - El Dorado Hills, CA June 2018 to Present Using vanilla Javascript, HTML, and CSS I maintained and added features to Keeper’s password manager browser extension for Chrome, Firefox, and Edge.    Designed a Web Component library which was used for the browser extension.    Refactored the extension to use React instead of Web Components 1.0. SOFTWARE DEVELOPER CSM CONSULTING INC February 2013 to Present In a small team I designed and programmed financial web applications for schools utilizing C#/.NET, and SQL for backend development; AngularJS and Bootstrap CSS was used for frontend development.    Designed RESTful web API to allow integration with outside vendors using C#.    Refactored Java based Point of Sale system to use JSON based communication instead of Weborb.    Helped design and program a document management system for California PTAs which utilized AWS S3 as its storage repository.    Developed a black box system to handle credit card payment solutions for a Java based point of sale system.    Designed a website/application for CSM’s E-Rate works system from the ground up.    Wrote various stored procedures for applications which required reporting or data retrieval using SQL, and C# for database access. FREELANCE GAME DESIGNER / PROGRAMMER THE GAME CREATORS March 2016 to June 2016 Utilized the AGK C++ libraries to design and develop Space Junk, an educational, space themed, weights and scales game for children in the UK. PROGRAMMER BMI IMAGING SYSTEMS - Sacramento, CA March 2012 to February 2013 Using C++ I developed a web crawler which scraped the contact data of potential clients from target websites. I also aided in the design of workflow automation processes used for the digitization of clients' physical data. Education B.S. (magna cum laude) in Computer Science University of Advancing Technology March 2016 to May 2018 Skills C, Java, C#, HTML 5, Javascript, jQuery, CSS, C++, React, Node, AWS, SQL Links https://github.com/mrradd Awards Magna cum laude Alpha Beta Kappa Additional Information Projects:  Missile Command-ish  An homage to the 1980 arcade classic, "Missile Command"; I first wrote this in AGK BASIC, and then ported it to Unity 2D (C#). It was released in March 2019 for iOS.    Webstaurant  A mobile friendly web application providing interfaces for waiters to take orders, cooks to track upcoming and completed orders, and a back office for managers to see real time metrics for the business’ back office. It utilizes AWS RDS with a NodeJS backend, as well as AngularJS 1.6.6, Google Charts, and BootStrap 3.3.7 for the front end.    Dungeonous Dagrons  A set of web based tools for conducting pen and paper role playing game sessions. Frontend written in React and is hosted on a Node server.    Tanxz  A multiplayer, first person, tank combat game with procedurally generated levels created with Unity 3D (C#).