Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer Denver, CO Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Developer Level3 Communications / Centurylink - Denver, CO September 2016 to July 2018 ·      Understanding business requirements drafted by the requirement analysts and translating such requirements to technical system specifications  ·      Design of the Referential Data Service module to interface with various databases using JDBC  ·      Designed and developed various modules of the application with J2EE design architecture, Spring MVC architecture and Spring Application Context using IOC, AOP concepts  ·      Spring MVC model integration for front-end request action controller  ·      Developed the persistence layer by using Hibernate ORM frame work, defining entities through annotations  ·      Wrote Hibernate annotation-based mapping Java classes with Oracle Database tables  ·      Used various Core Java concepts such as Multi-Threading, Exception Handling, Collection APIs to implement various features and enhancements  ·      Used Spring/MVC framework to enable the interactions between JSP/View   ·      Created test cases using Junit for Java classes and Abstract spring dependency Injection test for spring beans  ·      Worked on Angular JS to augment browser-based applications with MVC capability  ·      Updated user stories in Rally, created/updated tasks for User Stories in Rally in an iteration  ·      Developed web-based applications using Web Services like REST and SOAP  ·      Designed database and created tables, wrote the complex SQL Queries and stored procedures as per the requirements  ·      Designed and developed DB tables, interfaces and classes  ·      As part of compatibility testing, executed the workflow manager web application-related test cases on different browsers like Internet Explorer, Mozilla Firefox, Google Chrome on different Operating Systems (Validation)  ·      Used Source code repository management using GIT Stash (Bit Bucket) and Source Tree tool  ·      Participated in Agile scrum meetings, updating the tasks based on the user stories in Rally    Environment: Java 8, J2EE, JDBC, JavaScript, Spring, Angular, HTML5, Jira, Oracle 10g, squirrel SQL, Kafka, JBoss Application Server 7, Tortoise SVN, Tomcat85, Eclipse IDE, Rally, GIT, Hibernate Software Engineer Reliance Jio Infocomm - Mumbai, Maharashtra September 2015 to April 2016 • Involved in requirement gathering, analyzing functional requirements, design and development, management of new enhancements, Integration, Deployment and testing.   • Responsible for complete development of application.  • Applied Object Oriented concepts.   • Experience of writing java servlet on Apache Tomcat server  • Experience in writing queries and stored procedure.  • Developing the User Interface using JSP, Servlets, HTML, and JavaScript  • The data manipulation operations were implemented using Hibernate Template provided by Spring.  • Used WebSphere as an application server to deploy the project.  • Involved in implementing all components of the application including database  tables, server-side Java Programming and client side web programming.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with Restful Web APIs, Web  Services using AJAX, JSON, XML and jQuery.  • Built the application using Agile Development Model.  • Developed MEDES Front end application screens using HTML, CSS3, JSP, JSON,  JavaScript, JQuery.  • Deployed the application on JBoss and Glassfish server  • Prepared Unit level test cases. Software Engineer RSystems - Pune, Maharashtra August 2010 to June 2013 • Used Eclipse IDE for developing the application.  • Built the application using Agile Development Model.  • Designed and Involved in Various Stages of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) deliverables of the project.  • Responsible for complete development of application.  • Involved in requirement gathering, analyzing functional requirements, design and development, management of new enhancements, Integration, Deployment and testing.   • Determine the Workflow and develop application based on that.  • Used eclipse developed User Interface of application modules using CSS, JSP, JavaScript, and Ajax.  • Deployed the application in WebSphere Application Server 6.0.1  • Deployed the application on JBoss and Glassfish server  • Designed and developed various modules of the application with J2EE design architecture, Spring MVC architecture and Spring Application Context using IOC, AOP concepts.   • Wrote application front end with HTML, JSP, Ajax, JQuery, Spring Web Flow and CSS.   • Used log4j to Spool/store XML response O/P message into a LOG file.  • Working experience in using Oracle 10g backend Database. Education Bachelor's in Information Technology Hon.Annasaheb Dange college of engineering - Ashta, Maharashtra June 2005 to June 2009 Skills MySQL, Javascript, Git, HTML 5