Sr Software Developer, Houlihan Lokey Sr <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span>, Houlihan Lokey Sr Software Developer, Houlihan Lokey - Portfolio Valuation New York, NY Work Experience Sr Software Developer, Houlihan Lokey Portfolio Valuation - New York, NY March 2013 to Present • Designed and developed WCF service for pulling market data for bonds, loans, Indices and produce forward curves for different tenors.  • Created Consumer, Student and Mortgage loan price and cash flow engine, which can process 1K loans/sec.  • Created ExcelDNA user defined functions using C#, which connects to all backend functionality to Excel.  • Designed and developed EXCEL VSTO application with Intex VCMOWRAP, which automatically applies multiple Intex  scenarios to multiple CLO's.  • Developed mechanism to produce Synthetic Credit Rating for private company with help of SVM-Machine Learning  technique with 84% accuracy.  • Created Machine Learning model, which predicts default month for Alt-A loans.  • Currently working on proof of concept application for Ethereum Smart Contract with Solidity and Truffle.  • Developed a utility to parse MBS color from different email addresses.  • Periodically visualized data pattern in large peer-to-peer loan tapes with help of Microsoft Power BI and python  seaborn.  • Automated Bank of America Merrill Lynch Indices and S&P Capital Loan Indices data fetch.  • Scrubbed clean and imported different loan tapes from Fannie Mae, SoFi in DB for further data analysis and report  creation.  • Developed tool for bulk fetching Bloomberg referential and historical bond data.  • Responsible for regular maintenance of database and scheduling of back up jobs.  Technology and tool(s): C#.NET, WCF, WPF, ExcelDNA, EXCEL VSTO, MSChart, Visual studio 2015, SQL Server 2012, Active  Report, Blockchain, Ethereum, Intex, Microsoft Power BI, GIT, SVN, JIRA, BitBucket. Software Developer Mantara INC - New York, NY December 2011 to March 2013 • Responsible for maintaining and enhancing high frequency and low latency trading and risk application built on Winforms and WPF.  • Created loosely coupled framework, which converts native windows to plug in data as a service and service connection  as an adapter.  • Produced distributed risk Mindscape Entity WPF diagram plugin, which manipulates Broker-Firm-Account-User risk  limits.  • Generated Order Tool, which can produce 1000 to 3000 orders per second for testing backend latency as well as frontend rendering capacity.  • Along with code maintenance responsible for writing Unit Tests with xUnit(.Net Unit testing).  • Worked on different Execution Management System (EMS)'s communication protocols like FIX, SDD.  • Worked on Tortoise Window client as well as Ankh's SVN for Visual studio client.  • Created different UI controls for optimization and easy maintenance.  Technology and tool(s): C#.NET, WPF, Winforms, Visual studio 2012/2010, xUnit, MoinMoin wiki, TechExcel Devtrack, Tortoise Subversion control, Profiler Software Developer Intern, AccupointMed Pure Code - New York, NY May 2011 to December 2011 Worked on Customer Relationship Management (CRM) - a SaaS model built on top of SharePoint Server for Medicaid  service providing Company.  • Responsible for all parts of SDLC including planning, designing, developing and testing applications.  • Provided ongoing support to projects and fully integrated custom software services to various clients.  Technology and tool(s): C#, .Net, Silverlight, SharePoint Server 2010, CAML, Visual Source Safe Research Assistant New York University - New York, NY July 2010 to April 2011 Localized and developed Hindi language support for NVDA (Non Visual Desktop Access) screen reader for the visually  and print impaired.  • Translated the Nullsoft Scriptable Install System (NSIS) Unicode Installer to include Hindi Language.  • Provided Hindi language support for WebAnywhere, a browser for visually impaired people.  Technology and tool(s): Python, PHP, NSIS    Awards:  • Semifinalist of NYU Technology Venture Competition.  • Winner of New York state park mobile application contest sponsored by New York state park.  • Presented technical paper on "Computer Virus Trends" in ICTD Conference 2010.  • Have held the coveted title of Microsoft Student Partner (MSP) for Gujarat University, India from Jun 07 to Jun 09.    Skills/Tools:  • Programming Languages: C#, C, C++, PHP, SQL, Perl, ASP, ASP.NET, CAML  • Operating System: Microsoft Windows, Linux Backtrack  • Databases: SQL Server 2008, 2012  • Software: Microsoft Visual Studio 2015 & 2017, SharePoint 2010, JIRA  • SubVersion: GIT, SVN Tortoise, BitBucket Education Master of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science NYU Tandon School of Engineering - New York, NY January 2010 to December 2011 Bachelors in Computer Engineering in Computer Engineering Gujarat University June 2005 to June 2009 Skills Microsoft visual studio, Visual studio (6 years), C#, C++, Git, Python, .NET