eCommerce Supervisor (Contract) eCommerce Supervisor (Contract) Agile Development ? Software Development (SDLC)? Database Management ? Project Manager Buford, GA As a proactive, detail-oriented Software Development Manager with o collective experience delivering IT projects in an agile development environment. I have ability adapt to quick changing situations, influence team members, and develop strategic plans and tactical solution designs to resolve complex and mission critical tasks and issues along the technology roadmap. I am a strong, analytical thinker with proven experience using .NET, C#, HTML5, Bootstrap CSS, AngularJS, BreezeJS, API, and jQuery. I am an excellent written and verbal communicator recognized by leadership for my firm, fair and consistent approach. I can leverage my diverse skill set to make immediate and long-term contributions within the role of Manager, Strategic Sourcing. Allow me to briefly highlight a few key qualifications and career experiences: Work Experience eCommerce Supervisor (Contract) Kawneer 2019 to Present Led development of business to business (B2B) eCommerce platforms and managed projects with teams of 8+ people as Scrum Master to drive sprints and agile methodology along the product development and solutions roadmap. Charged with risk assessment, identifying and mitigating roadblocks, and full comprehension of business requirements in enterprise architecture of each client.  • Maintain system infrastructure and server maintenance; manage a 4.5M project budget, project planning, and technical project management of web services and customer data management for the department.  • Conduct market research and competitive analyses to present technologies for the platform and market, influence senior stakeholders to gain buy in; introduced ticketing system (JIRA) to the company to track all sprints and workload, decreasing time-to-market for all project delivery teams and transparency into reporting and analytics.  • Streamline process automation and process improvements including new reviews and team development plans with specific metrics and KPI goals to improve development skills; mentored and coached all junior developers needing additional guidance to ensure team growth and building blocks of team infrastructure were secured. eCommerce System Manager Delta Apparel 2017 to 2019 Managed the Software Development and Systems Architect with oversight of 5 eCommerce Websites. Led team consisting of 8 offshore developers and 5 onshore developers, leveraging agile practices and methodology.  • Maintained Amazon Web Services (AWS) instances and configurations and researched for opportunities to improve and recommend new technology based on business needs, goals, and changing requirements.  • Structured an Agile team to develop and maintain all business system applications; managed existing project functions and new development project frameworks through strategy, scope, budget and quality assurance. Lead Software Developer Veolia North America 2015 to 2017 Served as Lead Software Developer for ASP.NET and Single Page Application using Angular product development. Created a team workflow by re-designing system frameworks. Conducted design reviews and QA project reporting, testing and logging of defects to ensure on-time project delivery. Created annual reviews and goals for team to provide coaching.  • Created a Web-Farm for the applications with high accessibility for customers and end users, led service-oriented architecture build for new server to support the offshore team with VM's to accommodate the workflow.  • Designed and led a training workshop for a team of 8 people on Angular 2.0 and .Net Core; organized daily code review for Backend and SQL Code.  • Maintained seamless production through management of scheduling to introduce new system features and improve servers and databases to eliminate further technical issues. Senior Software Developer Veolia North America 2015 to 2015 2015  Transferred ASP.NET MVC to MVVM with DurandalJS and rebuilt an entire backend to become a restful API to support the Single Page Application. Migrated team to a new branching methodology (GitFlow) for a better workflow and process management.  • Built databases and table structures using MySQL and SQL Server; introduced Tableau to the company and integrated the system into servers.  • Created a mailing system for the company to send out emails daily and for activity tracking; created an alert system to send out daily reports to customers per request. IT Software Engineer (contract) 2014 to 2015 Transferred old technology (VB) applications into new technology, Single Page Application. Orchestrated Web Single Page Application development using .NET, C#, HTML5, Bootstrap CSS, AngularJS, BreezeJS, API, jQuery.  • Consulted with customers and gathered requirements to build custom applications; identified and analyzed the old software issues and fixed in the new design.  • Assisted with any system issues and solved problems and aided with the knowledge and training of AngularJS and DurandalJS technology. Senior Software Developer Archangel Michael Orthodox Church & St. Augustine Orthodox Church 2011 to 2015 Developed the new website for Saint Augustine Coptic Orthodox Church and Archangel Michael Coptic Orthodox Church using HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, PHP, jQuery. Drafted comprehensive reports to document issues and design flaws.  • Identified and suggested new technologies and tools for productivity; track members and monitor growth.  • Developed a calling system using ASP.NET and JavaScript to notify members of weekly church services.  • Built databases and table structures following n-tier architecture methodology for web applications.  • Created Monitoring system using C#, JavaScript and SQL to record and report problems.  • Designed service software to automate the churches' services using C++, SQL, and Windows Form; developed a Calendar Service to organize church times and reservations using JavaScript, HTML5, Bootstrap.  • Maintained and upgraded all computers at both churches and developed Church apps for ministry schedules. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science Georgia Regents University - Augusta, GA Skills CSS (10+ years), ASP.NET (10+ years), Agile (10+ years), Strategy Development (10+ years), Software Development (10+ years), JIRA (10+ years), Management (10+ years), SQL (10+ years), AZURE (10+ years), Strategic Planning (10+ years), Strategic Business Planning (10+ years), MySQL (10+ years), Git (10+ years), Business Development (10+ years), Linux (10+ years), GitHub (10+ years), Web Services (10+ years), Confluence (10+ years), Bitbucket (10+ years), Stash (10+ years) Links http://linkedin.com/in/kirolossfrancis http://aboutmewebsite.net Military Service Branch: Army Service Country: United States Rank: SSG E-6 March 2001 to November 2003 Additional Information DEVELOPMENT OF B2B ECOMMERCE PLATFORMS:Managed projects with teams of 8+ as Scrum Master driving sprints and agile methodology along the product development and solutions roadmap for clients    IMPACT:Streamlined process automation and process improvements with specific metrics and KPI goals to improve development skills.    OVERSIGHT OF 5 ECOMMERCE WEBSITES:Led a team consisting of 8 offshore developers and 5 onshore developers, leveraging agile practices and methodology.    IMPACT:Researched for opportunities to recommend new technology based on business needs, goals, and changing requirements.    TRANSFERRED ASP.NET MVC TO MVVM:Utilized DurandalJS for the transfer and rebuilt an entire backend to become a restful API to support the Single Page Application.     IMPACT:Migrated the team to a new branching methodology (GitFlow) for a better workflow and process management.    Mysuccessinthepastandmycontinuedsuccessstemfrommystrongcommitment,workethic,anddesiretobecome anextremelyvaluableemployee.Itismygoaltotransfertheseattributestothisposition.    Thank you for your time and consideration.