Webmaster Webmaster Webmaster - Fun Travel Guides Miami, FL Work Experience Webmaster Fun Travel Guides - Miami, FL 2019 to Present • Maintain and extend Wordpress website www.funtravelguides.com.  • Add and update content, UI/UX and increase readability. Web Developer, Content Writer House Cleaning Miami Organization - Miami, FL 2019 to Present Built www.housecleaningmiami.org website using Python Flask, HTML, CSS, SQL, Postgres  database.  • Write blogs to support SEO campaign. SEM using Google Adword, Spyfu, Ubersuggest. Web Developer, Content Writer Bidner Injury Law - Miami, FL 2016 to 2018 • Developed www.bidnerinjurylaw.com website using Wordpress.  • Wrote injury law blogs that supported our SEO campaign. Software Developer Real Deal Interactive - Miami, FL 2014 to 2016 • Programmed "Lucky Loot Casino" App for iOS, Android, and Facebook platforms.  • Utilized Lua/Corona SDK for mobile and ActionScript/Flash Builder for Facebook.  • Worked with team in Miami as well as remotely with team in Ukraine and Las Vegas. Game Engineer 305 Games - Miami, FL 2011 to 2014 • Utilized Lua/Corona SDK and collaborated with graphic artist to create 2D physics games for App store.  • Created trivia template to create over 30 celebrity Quiz games. Public Adjuster All Dade Public Adjusters - Miami, FL 2009 to 2011 • Schedule in-house consultations and get an overview of home damage.  • Interview clients and answer any questions they may have.  • Assess and evaluate damage. Perform a thorough inspection of the damage.  • Take all the correct measurements and photos.  • Prepare a fully detailed estimate on repairs with the latest estimating software.  • Conclude on the cost of repairs and replacement of damaged property.  • Prepare a full inventory of damaged personal property. Education Design and implementation Harvard 2017 to 2018 Introduction to Computer Science Harvard 2016 to 2017 Certification University of Miami - Miami, FL 2016 Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/russell-mckee