Software Developer (contractor) <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> (contractor) Lake Grove, NY 11 years of experience in software development in financial applications. Highly advanced c++ experience Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Developer (contractor) Bank of America - New York, NY October 2018 to Present Language                            Python  Operating System           Windows, Unix    Consultant software developer for the Quartz project’s QzRelease program. QzRelease is used to manage the release and builds of Quartz programs. My major project is to migrate program from Python 2.7 to Python 3.7 Software Developer AMB Software - Lake Grove, NY August 2001 to August 2019 Language C++  Development tool Microsoft Visual Studio  Operating System Microsoft Windows    Software developer for an MS Windows program called Directory Report.  This is my own website and program which I sell on the internet.  This is a hobby which allows me to implement new C++/Windows features that I learn on my own.  The program makes extensive use of C++, MFC and the MS Windows API.  Duplicates files are found by using multiple threads. Senior Software Developer OpenLink Financial - Uniondale, NY December 2010 to June 2018 Languages C, C++, C#, Java  Database Oracle, MS-SQL  Operating System MS-Windows  Development tools Microsoft Visual Studio, Eclipse  Libraries C++ Standard Template Library (STL)    Senior software developer for Endur which is used to support the commodity trading of natural gas and crude oil. Endur is also used to manage the scheduling of natural gas and crude oil through pipelines.    Implemented the double/triple play enhancement (C++) for Shell Oil. This enabled Shell to indirectly trade with a 3rd party via another internal Shell 2nd party. I was promoted to Senior Software Developer because of my work on this project.    Implemented the migration of an old natural gas trading screen to C# and .Net. Extensive use was made of C# properties, generic collection classes, Visual Studio toolbox GUI object's properties and method callbacks.    Enhanced and maintained Openlink's STL based C++ library. This library is delivered to clients so that they can call Openlink's core C libraries.    Enhanced and maintained OpenLink's Java library. This library is delivered to clients so that they can call Openlink's core C libraries. I wrote many small Java programs which are used internally for unit testing. Development and debugging was done using Eclipse    Fixed many pricing related bugs. These fixes had to be very efficient so as to not slow down client's pricing simulations. Senior software developer Misys - New York, NY October 2006 to December 2010 MS-SQL-Server  Operating System Microsoft Windows, UNIX (Solaris)  Development tools Microsoft Visual Studio, Sun Studio  Libraries C++ Standard Template Library (STL), RogueWave  Senior software developer for Summit which is part of the Treasury and Capital Markets (TCM) division. Summit is a front-office to back-office solution specializing in derivatives, fixed income, FX, Equity and structured products.  I participated in new development and bug fixing in TCM's flagship product Summit-FT. The Summit-FT front-end is written in C#. The C# front-end communicates with the back-end (MS-Windows and Solaris UNIX via Orbix and Tomcat. All front-end to back-end messages are in XML.  I participated in new development and bug fixing in TCM's older product Summit-Classic. The Classic front-end is written in C++ and runs on MS-Windows and Solaris UNIX. The Classic back-end runs on MS-Windows and Solaris UNIX.  I participated in new development and bug fixing in the Summit Toolkit libraries (C++) which are used both by Summit-FT and Summit-Classic and which run on MS-Windows and Solaris UNIX. Senior software developer ACNielsen - Syosset, NY June 1995 to September 2006 Syosset, NY  Languages C++, C  Database Sybase  Operating System Microsoft Windows, Unix (HP)  Development tools Microsoft Visual Studio  Libraries Microsoft MFC, RogueWave    Senior software developer for Panel Fact. The Panel Fact system generates marketing research reports for the consumer package goods industry by processing data generated by 150,000 households reporting their weekly purchases.  I am responsible for new development, maintaining and enhancing all parts of the Panel Fact system.    I have completed numerous new development projects. Because of my outstanding development and communication skills these projects were delivered on time and fulfilled all user requirements.    The front-end is written in C++ and uses ODBC to connect with a Sybase database running on a HP Unix. The Panel Fact front end makes extensive use of C++ objects, Microsoft Foundation Class (MFC), embedded SQL and Sybase stored procedures.    The back end is written in C, C++, Unix Shell script and XML. Older programs used a ctlib interface to connect with the Sybase database. Newer programs use RogueWave libraries to connect with the Sybase database and to use their collection classes.    I wrote numerous SQL code embedded in programs, stored procedures and scripts. Extra care was taken in writing and optimizing SQL code since it had to efficiently scale to our huge production machines.    I have been promoted to senior software engineer on 3/98. I have completed classes on project management, MS COM/OLE, Java and InstallShield. Software developer Unisys - Great Neck, NY June 1982 to June 1995 Great Neck, NY  Language C, SQL  Development tool Microsoft Visual Studio  Operating System Microsoft Windows, Unix (Unisys)  Database Oracle  Unisys was formerly known as Sperry  Software developer of an Automated Finger Identification System (AFIS). The AFIS system connected MS Windows and Unix systems using TCP/IP and On Line Transaction Processing (OLTP) technology. The front end was written in MSVC C and made extensive calls to the Windows SDK. Demographics and images were stored in Oracle running on a Unisys Unix platform.  I wrote the capability of the front-end sending fingerprint images using sockets and TCP/IP from the PC's memory to the FTP service on the Unix back-end. Education M.S. in Computer Science Polytechnic Institute of New York University - Brooklyn, NY B.A. in Computer Science Rutgers University - New Brunswick, NJ