Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer - Health Fitness Bellvue, CO Work Experience Software Developer Health Fitness - Dallas, TX July 2013 to Present Remote)  • Web Developer for a web portal/CMS. This effort was to convert the legacy system to the agile CMS based system Kentico. The application is used to give the participant a way to enjoy a healthier lifestyle. It includes articles, device integration, event scheduling, coaching and ways to track their progress. The solution leverages these technologies: MVC 5, Kentico 7, ASP.Net, JQuery Mobile, Kendo UI, Unity application block, MVVM, TDD including Coded UI, POCO with the Entity Framework, SQL Server 2008 R2, LINQ/Lambda, Windows Azure, TFS Angular JS, Backbone and bootstrap.  • Microsoft Azure  • Microsoft Azure CDN and Media Services  • Kentico Azure  • implement services and utilized service bus Software Developer Heska Corporation - Loveland, CO January 2007 to June 2013 Create, develop, and support corporate technology systems and websites, working with internal departments, outside sales teams, and clients directly in order to provide IT solutions that lead to effective business processes, seamless sales transactions, and increased company growth.  • Implemented, developed (6 integrations) and administrated Kentico Content Management System (CMS).  • 1 year of experience designing and developing iOS 5 applications for iPad 2 using Objective-C.  • Design and implement feature-rich applications across multiple systems, increasing productivity and profitability for inside and outside sales teams as well as many operational roles.  • Cultivate relationships with both new and returning customers, often working with the end-users to obtain information on specific needs and develop solutions that fit those requirements. Manage the entire project life-cycle from the gathering of end-user requirements and system development to implementation and communication of results to management.  • Create and manage many sales and marketing programs, including the customer rewards program on the website, email marketing campaigns, company newsletters, and product promotion web pages. Maintain up to 8 separate sites at any given time that consist of distributor education promotions, project tracking for internal sales, and marketing projects.  • Develop and present new sales tools for accurate analysis and strategy planning, such as the sales system that displays real-time territorial and regional sales figures and call statistics on monitors throughout the call center.  • Successfully extended Onyx, Heska's Customer Relationship Manager (CRM) system to contain several new functional sections including Sales Lead Tracking, Complaint Tracking, and Sales Summaries, streamlining business processes for both Sales and Support Teams.  • Coordinate cross-functional teams to solve complex technical and business issues, reaching across Marketing, Sales, Customer Support, and Accounting.  • Interact with Executive Management, attending meetings to provide progress reports and make recommendations for new policies and systems.  • Research company competitors and evolving technology within the industry, developing competitive intelligence and a comprehensive understanding of industry best practices.  - genem@delensolutions.com - (970) 219-4700  • Train and mentor other employees within the technical team, ensuring that company procedures are upheld and team goals are achieved.  • Provide on-call support as needed to both employees and clients.  • Lead the website steering committee, regularly presenting new information and facilitating meetings. Serve as a member of the e-commerce and customer relationship manager steering committee.  • Promoted within 2 years of employment due to excellent results and service.    Software Developer, January 2007 - June 2013  Heska Corporation, Loveland, CO  • Integrated complaint module into Onyx CRM and Microsoft Dynamics Great Planes systems  • Developed, designed, and implemented enterprise-level software applications for employee management system utilizing C# ASP.Net, Ajax, CSLA C# data portal business objects  • Using Power Points Office Interop Assemblies and CSLA developed a dynamic presentation that displays territorial and regional sales figures as well as call center information for customer service representatives.  • Implemented and Developed against SharePoint Services (WSS) and SharePoint Server (Moss), Reporting Services Software Developer DirecTECH Holding Co., Inc - Fort Collins, CO June 2006 to January 2007 • Integrated in house system to Microsoft AXAPTA Financial software in the migration from Peachtree to the AXAPTA product. This was accomplished by using SQL 2005 xml tools and web services  • Converted complex reporting system to XSLT for enhanced speed and data integration and manipulation Software Developer / Consultant Delen Solutions LLC - Fort Collins, CO July 2004 to June 2006 • Design and Developed full life cycle projects including all documentation and Project Management duties  • Implemented Computer Aided Facilities Management (CAFM) System for company in the Denver area  • UI developer/designer and content writer focused on small-business websites Software Developer MoonFire Corporation - Mead, CO August 2002 to July 2004 • Developed and supported web based fundraising and call center software  • Implemented portal structure to incorporate different design specifications for different clients in Application Service Provider (ASP) web product  • Developed several ActiveX interfaces to DialVision for PBX Switches (Avaya, 3 Comm, Nortel and Cisco) Software Developer VisiMetrix, Inc - Denver, CO March 2001 to August 2002 • Developed a Windows Facility Request System (FRS) application (full life cycle)  • Converted the Windows FRS to a Web application using the same database structure Software Developer Frank Solutions, Inc - Englewood, CO November 1999 to March 2001 • Developed Interactive Voice Response (IVR) systems for State Government agencies and corporations (full life cycle)  • Developed Administrators, Import and Export programs for the IVR systems  • Using third party development kits, created several Active X, dll and COM components, also used ADO, RDO and DAO Data objects  - genem@delensolutions.com - (970) 219-4700 Education Computer Information Systems Colorado Christian University - Fort Collins, CO Skills Ajax, Asp, Dhtml, Internet information server, Iis, Asp.net, Sharepoint, Microsoft access, Microsoft sql server, Sql server, Mysql, Sql, Sql server integration services, Ios, Mvc, Ui, C#, Html, Javascript, Json Additional Information Technical Skill Set  MVC 5 • IOS, Kentico 4.0, 5.5, 6.0, 7.0, 8.0 • JQuery • Kendo UI • Angular JS • C#/ VB.NET • ASP.NET/ASP/Ajax/Flash • PHP • Component-based Scalable Logical Architecture (CSLA) • Microsoft SQL Server • SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS) • SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS) • Microsoft Link • MySQL • JSon/HTML/XML/XSLT/DHTML • JavaScript and VBScript • Microsoft SharePoint (WSS) • Microsoft Work Flow Internet Information Server (IIS) • Windows Server Operating Systems • Microsoft Office • Microsoft Access • Crystal Reports • Great Plains/Dynamics Financial System • Onyx Customer Center (CRM) • UML