Business Analyst Business Analyst Business Analyst - Panwebs Orlando, FL Work Experience Business Analyst Panwebs July 2016 to Present • Analyzes processes to determine areas of growth potential. Gathers data requirements. Builds conceptual prototypes to obtain stakeholder acceptance.  • Developed processes, products and marketing plans for small businesses to improve outcomes.  • Created and taught simple procedures to allow customers to expand and manage their work.  • Established method for a teacher to deliver classes online and communicate effectively with students.  • Set up process for students to pay for classes online.  • Using SCRUM framework, create and maintain product backlog, establish sprint cycle, hold meetings to determine progress and roadblocks, hold reviews upon sprint completion, implement improvements.  Software Developer    • Creates mobile responsive websites using Visual Studio, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, GIT, and FTP.  • Helped online school create eBooks, schedules, website, and linked site to PayPal.  • Designed online content for classes hosted on a CDN. Developed marketing strategy.  • Works with JavaScript. Familiar with PHP, AngularJS, ReactJS, and NodeJS. Business Analyst The Boeing Company January 1998 to July 2016 • Met with stakeholders to understand organizational challenges. Gathered requirements and analyzed processes. Created process flow diagrams to help determine areas of potential improvement.  • Presented and proposed possible solutions to address challenges. Provided alternative solutions as needed. Championed the resulting decision.  • ITAR trained and compliant. Responsible to extract, transform and load (ETL) ITAR data into systems for other ITAR stakeholders serving the US military for the AIR Force aerial refueler, Poseidon P-8, etc. This data was gathered, processed, and delivered to other ITAR compliant stakeholders at the Boeing company. This data was used to benefit the US government and military with aircraft that they had purchased from the Boeing company. Products and services included aircraft option data for fight manuals, simulator configuration, mechanic and pilot training, checklists, and other tools.  • Worked in many agile groups. Participated in company sponsored LEAN management and Safe certification training courses. We implemented these principles to develop lean projects that enabled the team to be nimble and agile, explore various possible solutions, and incrementally deploy solutions to solve problems. Using sprints with a 2 to 4 week cadence, we were able to correct and improve code and processes in near real-time. This allowed us address urgent and immediate organizational and project specific challenges to optimize solution benefit to improve results and minimize setbacks.  • Reduced manufacturing expenses and improved product quality by implementing lean management practices to reduce process flow time.  • Assisted suppliers to improve their quality systems by gathering supplier acceptance data and generating reports for the quality organization to pinpoint areas of max return on effort and resources.  • Using the SCRUM framework, worked with stakeholders to identify opportunities for improvement and understand desired outcomes. Formed and worked with team to create and evaluate possible solutions and create product demos and mockups. After acceptance, deployed solution and measured results.    Project Manager  • Determined schedules, assigned tasks, and held daily SCRUM meetings. Tracked progress with Kanbans, presented status reports, and managed many projects from vision to production.  • As project manager, facilitated launch of new customer maintenance division by leading team of 21 to create performance reporting system with Crystal Reports and Oracle.  • Conducted regular team walks to develop camaraderie.    Software Developer  • Used software development life cycle to plan, design, build and maintain applications and databases for enterprise and airline customers.  • Performed ETL for most projects. Created SQL statements, business logic, reports, dashboards, documentation, test scripts for applications and reporting systems.  • Used SVN and other proprietary software for version control for code creation, testing, and release.  • Modified software to include military ITAR data for Air Force Poseidon P-8, aerial refueler, and others.  • Developed and utilized test scripts for software functional testing and user acceptance testing (UAT) in multiple languages.  • Protected code and data with backup processes, disaster recovery plans, and documentation.  • Met with other developers to learn from senior and mentor junior members of the team.  • Developed discrepant hardware investigation system to reduce process flow time from two months to two hours. Application provided secure immediate access to documents and data search.  • Facilitated Quality org to improve supplier performance with supplier acceptance reporting system.  • Generated revenues and reduced customer expenses by adding new C++ and Visual Basic functions to customer maintenance applications that sold for a large profit. Expanded capability of application by scaling code to accept alternate datasets from multiple locations. Upgraded app to run on Windows 7 and Windows 10. Increased scope to include additional commercial and military models.  • Created and maintained more than 20 Boeing Web sites and applications on the Boeing Intranet and external website. Designed and developed architecture, databases, security, and business logic in HTML and CSS, JavaScript, ASP, APIs, and ColdFusion applications using SQL. Created 3-tier coding environment for version control, code testing, site backup, and data integrity.  • Improved application efficiency and performance by creating new UIs, reports, and web APIs connecting a 12 database Oracle Forms application to 24 enterprise applications. Developed SQL code to query, modify, and add new Oracle databases. Developed PL/SQL modules to process data. Used Linux to access code, create and run scripts, control code version, and create builds for deployment. Education Master's Certificate in Web Development University of Washington 2017 Master's in Project Management Stevens Institute of Technology 2012 MBA City University of Seattle 2008 Bachelor of Science in Business Administration in IS in Business Administration Central Washington University 1994 Skills Business Intelligence, Excel, MS Office, Microsoft Office, Powerpoint, SQL, access, testing Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/mark-seymour