Principal Software Developer Principal <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Principal Software Developer Irvine, CA .Full stack development in design, development, testing of large scale .Net platform for Windows, Web based applications for medical diagnostic, Nuance Voice Automation and scientific products.  .Experience in all phases of software development cycle, from defining complex requirements to development, test and integration.  .Skilled in providing solutions for complex software data system requirements utilizing data modeling, data filtering and provide results using GUIs and reports.  .Design and publish reports in PDF, Excel Spreadsheet, Crystal report formats.  .Experience with source control management and deployment environments and Agile practices including Scrum and Kanban. Work Experience Principal Software Developer Vangard Voice System - Irvine, CA October 2018 to August 2019 *Successfully designed and implemented next generation Voice module using C++ to support multi languages using utf8, generates Grammar files using Nuance platform.  Created a new Voice interface module using C++ that can be deployed in Windows, Windows CE, Android and IOS.    *Successfully created a new Voice Sdk toolkit that integrates the Voice module, Voice interface to allow users to create the Nuance grammar files in different languages settings and provides functions to test the result using Nuance speech engine.    *Analyzed new customer technical requirements and provided technical expertise to new proposals. Attended technical interchange meetings at customer sites to introduce software products including conduct software demo and provide methods to integrate to customer new environments.    *Generated software installation using Windows installer for multi operating systems (msi and cab files) and provided customer support that includes hardware/ software integration. Senior Software Developer Bio-Rad laboratories, Medical Diagnostic Group - Irvine, CA April 2001 to August 2018 *Developed large scale software applications for Windows and Web based (Asp.net) applications. Using Quality Control (QC) data, QC Rules in the medical laboratories to assist with data analysis and quality prediction.  *Successfully created user friendly, fast data rendering GUIs for Quality control application tools in medical laboratories to perform QC data analysis, prediction through the uses of modern GUI tools, optimized SQLs, stored procedures, Ajax, Javascript and Jquery. The GUIs comprised of Datagrids, charts using Microsoft, Syncfusion tools. Also provided capability to create Excel, PDF, Crystal reports.  *Developed simulation software solution to study the web server behavior in the heavy load condition. The .Net framework Threading methodology was successfully used to efficiently upload data files to the server.  *Created customized SQL script tools to allow hospitals to merge data from child to parent SQL databases. The tasks involved mapping complex data tables conversion between child parent SQL relationships.  *Developed successfully application and components (Dlls) to extract data from medical instruments (LIS) to QC format and provided function to import data to SQL database.  *Created server software application to process client data using File Watcher, load balancing techniques to provide fast and efficient processing channels.  *Provide technical support to resolve customer issues, customized onsite software installation and testing. Senior Software Developer Wonderware - Irvine, CA January 1999 to March 2001 *Developed diagnostic software application to monitor factory automation devices. Recognized and received special award for project development.  *Designed COM objects for different functions and provided technical support for support and services projects.  * Defined and generated subsystem specifications, test plan and procedures. Senior Software Developer Odetics - Anaheim, CA November 1997 to December 1998 *Successfully developed and deployed diagnostic, measurement software applications for the Rubidium instrumentations products.  *Lead developer for the embedded firmware to provide communications between subsystems  * Performed subsystems, system test integration and generated test reports.  * Provided technical support for on-going projects Senior Software Developer Efratom - Irvine, CA July 1994 to November 1997 *Responsible for developing all real time Diagnostic and measurement software applications for the division atomic products. Involved in all phases of development cycle from defining system requirements to generate test plan and procedures.  *Performed system test and integration at customer site  Awards Recognition:  Spotlight award - Bio-rad  Special achievement award- Wonderware Education Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering Purdue University Skills Ajax, Asp, Asp.net, Ado, Sql server, Sql, .net, Visual studio, C++, Html, Mfc, Python, Visual basic, Java, jquery, Mvc, Wpf, Tcp/ip, Team foundation server, Tcp Additional Information Computer experience:  C++, C Sharp, Visual Basic, Asp.net, TCP/IP protocol, Angular, Python, MVC, WPF, Java, Java script, Ajax toolkit, HTML, Jquery, MFC, SQL Server, ADO .Net, Team Foundation Server (TFS), Installshield, TFS, Microsoft Cloud platform, Microsoft .Net platform, Visual Studio 2017, Microsoft and Telerik and Syncfusion graphic tools.