designer/ developer designer/<span class="hl">developer</span> designer/ developer - Illustration Salem, OR Work Experience designer/ developer Illustration May 2013 to Present The Short & Sweet Company creates interactive educational stories, HTML5  games, and activities for young children of early elementary school  CSS3  age. Our products aim to teach important lessons like hope, empathy  SASS  and celebrating our differences. We use web standard platforms for our storytelling efforts (HTML5/CSS3/JS) utilizing modern WebPack/Parcel/Rollup    frameworks for speed of production, and agile production techniques JavaScript  and Git Flow source management. The React Library/React Native are Node  historically our goto tech stack. We have been exploring newer  API  options recently, like Svelte. Our team sizes are normally pretty small, somewhere between two and five developers per project. Python    PHP / Wordpress Developer EDS - Lansing, MI February 2006 to September 2007 I worked with large (50+ developer) teams to complete projects for Team Player  Medicaid programs with several states. I spent most of my time working Agile Development for the State of Kentucky Medicaid System. My job was basically to take  code written in Kobol, and convert them into C / Pro C. My position also Git / Git Flow  required a working technical knowledge of the Linux operating system, Svelte and building lots of SQL queries to build monthly reports for department  Enterprise development  managers. I was also part of a team that built a .net based interface with the states new report management system.    Freelance PHP Server, and General Web Development  Tasks. Alexandria, VA - Owner, lead developer LANGUAGES Software Developer Lemuel Canady Technical Services - Alexandria, VA March 2000 to September 2007 Various website, servers, PHP Powered forums in a Linux Environment.  (Reading/Writing)  Years down the road this work turned into PHP work VIA Wordpress. I  learned to work with the LAMP stack frequently for development. I  worked with various Sites/blogs and e-commerce solutions. Education Graphic design Portland State University - Portland, OR September 2011 to May 2013 Visual Communications Program Chemeketa Community College - Salem, OR August 2008 to May 2011 development and computer science Virginia Commonwealth University - Richmond, VA August 1999 to May 2003 Skills Marketing, Javascript (6 years), Graphic Design (7 years), Illustrator, Adob (10+ years), Microsoft Word, Svelte 3 (Less than 1 year), React (4 years), ReactJS (4 years)