Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer / Application Packaging Duanesburg, NY Years of experience in engineering software packaging, deployment and development. Key clients include General Electric, Pella Windows and Doors and Electric Power Research Institute. Met challenges and deadlines and consistently delivered for the client. Strongly motivated to automate processes and produce high quality results in a timely manner. Effectively prioritizes, communicates, and resolves customer issues. Played a significant role in the standardization process of packaging engineering software used at GE Energy, Aviation and other GE businesses. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Developer Currently Available for Opportunities - Albany, NY March 2018 to Present In the meantime since being laid off, besides looking for a job, I’ve been taking different courses through NYS Labor’s Metrix Learning program on Skillsoft and Microsoft Virtual Academy like JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, Python, C# .Net MVC 5, Entity Framework and others. I’ve also been doing C# coding challenges on CodeWars.com and HackerRank.com. Lately I've been working on a personal project to develop a web application using C# .Net MVC 5, Entity Framework and MS Sql Express. Engineering Software Packager Logic Technology, Inc - Schenectady, NY July 2005 to December 2017 General Electric : SEAL3 (Specialized Engineering Analysis L3) Project  • Developed a documented standardized process for creating lite installable engineering packages so engineering applications can run as client/server apps based on GE technical manager specs.  • Wrote C# applications and .hta/vbscript script tools to generate .msi files and wrapper command scripts for client  installs. Developed and maintain many .hta/vbscripts and command scripts utilized in deployment processes.  • Developed C# applications that run from the server: for engineers to select engineering applications to install, and for the team to help maintain advertised packaged software on servers that received the deployed software.  • Rigorously followed workflow process used to track the life cycle of packaged applications from development,  testing, staging and deployment to production, for deployment to server/shares globally.  • Developed other .hta/vbscript scripting tools to perform different functionalities used in the packaging, deployment,  reporting or software installation processes.  • Figured out a way to programmatically add the Engineering shortcut folder as a tool bar and to pin shortcuts to  Windows 10 taskbar - set this up before releasing Windows 10 to the engineering community.  • Developed an .hta/vbscript tool to generate .mst and Install .cmd overlay files to make existing client/server  packages stay persistent in the VDI non-persistent world. Eliminated the need for users to keep reinstalling software.  • Developed a process and scripts along with modifying existing "Copied As Is" deployment code for back-end of  AUTOPILOT process, allowing technical managers to enable deployment of applications or subfolders of application  folders automatically, eliminating need to submit a deployment request.  • Often complimented by customer users and technical managers for high quality deliverables and services.  • The C# .Net client application tools were created using Windows Forms. XML was used to store and retrieve data between the different tools. Some of the tools used generated command scripts used in the lite installations.  • Created a C# Windows service that would monitor a configuration file that another team would modify to auto-generate their installation .msi files for their applications.  • Used TortiseSVN as the repository for the software tools created then switched over to GITHub near the end of the project.  • Near the end of the project GE leadership instituted leading an Agile Scrum process using Rally software. Software Developer Logic Technology, Inc - Schenectady, NY July 1999 to March 2005 Pella Windows and Doors : OMS Project - Aug 1999 to Jul 2000 / Jun 2004 to Mar 2005  Software Developer  • Member of team responsible for maintaining, debugging and testing Pella Window’s Order Management System using Visual C++, Sybase 11, InstallShield and Crystal Reports.  • Participated in developing an automated build process to create an Order Management System install by build number from SourceSafe.  • Completely re-wrote installation software to install OMS application to either the client or server machines.  • Performed the application release builds by downloading source code based on version labels from SourceSafe, build the install package and uploaded the install package to Pella.    Pella Windows and Doors : PCS Project - Jul 2000 to Jun 2004  Software Developer  • Technical Lead for rewriting application from Visual C to Visual C++ based on OMS architecture. Separated application business logic from user interface for easier future transition to a web based application.  • Worked on enhancements and bug fixes, upgraded client/server installs, made modifications to the Sybase database and created and built version releases for the client/server.  • Rewrote other related software to allow interfacing with other Pella applications.  • Performed analyses to write up specs and give time estimates, and assign issues to other programmers. Software Developer Logic Technology, Inc - Schenectady, NY January 1997 to July 1999 Electric Power Research Institute : SDW Project  • Member of team responsible for maintaining, debugging and testing application Substation Design Workstation in  Visual C++ and Sybase SQL Anywhere - an application used in the preliminary design of electrical substations.  • Supported the Initial Planning with graphic layout logic and Floating Toolbar Modules.  • Coordinated and performed the majority of the migration effort from 16 bit to 32 bit.  • Participated in front-end development of two new modules that interfaced with third party FORTRAN modules.  • Used MS Visual SourceSafe for version control and InstallShield to build the installation package.  • Developed configuration process to build application and installation package based on version numbers. Software Developer Logic Technology, Inc - Schenectady, NY June 1994 to December 1996 Fleet Services : Cross-Sell Manager Project  • Assisted in major rewrite of customized Cross-Sell Manager PC software, by Berman Technologies, Inc.  • Designed, coded, implemented and maintained a Combine Statement Opening/Maintenance interface to be used by customer service sales representatives at all Fleet Bank branches.  • Worked closely with mainframe programmers and branch operations in creating and maintaining the interface between the various mainframe applications and the Cross-Sell platform. Software Developer Logic Technology, Inc - Schenectady, NY November 1993 to June 1994 General Electric Power Systems : Windows Compas Project  • Converted Compas application programs from C for DOS to C++ for Windows. The programs were created on a PC  using Microsoft Visual C++, App Studio, Delta, SQL and Windows.  • Interface an AS400 JD Edwards's application with the PC Compas application by writing programs on both sides to import/export data between the two systems.  • Created and modified programs on AS400 using RPG III, CL, SDA, PDM, DFU and Query. Education BS in Computer Science Information Science State University of New York at Binghamton - Binghamton, NY AAS in Computer Science Broome Community College - Binghamton, NY AAS in Data Processing Broome Community College - Binghamton, NY Skills C# .Net, VBScript, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, XML, NSIS, VC++, T-Sql, Microsoft Visual Studio Express, VMware - Workstation, robocopy, Altiris Wise Package Studio, Microsoft Visual Studio, InstallShield, Git/GitHub, TortoiseSVN, Microsoft Visual SourceSafe, Sybase, WinSql, Crystal Reports, Sybase SQL Anywhere, MS Query, MS Word, MS Excel, MS SQL Express, Sybase: Tables, Views, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Indexing, Windows 32/64-bit, x86/x64 PCs, C# Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/max-borski/