.NET Developer .NET <span class="hl">Developer</span> .NET Developer - Amex New York, NY ? Software professional with 11+ years of experience in real time software development, Design, Analysis, Functional Studies, Requirement Gathering, Testing, Implementation and Production Support.  ? Having solid experience in C++, VC++, C#.NET, and ASP.NET technologies.  ? Experience in developing web based applications using .NET technologies C#, ASP.NET, WCF, LINQ, AJAX, ADO.NET, Entity Framework, Web Services, JQUERY and XML/XSLT.  ? Good knowledge in XML, XSLT and Web Services, WCF services, REST services, Web API.  ? Experience in Web forms GUI development including client and server components, custom controls, user controls, Web Services, ADO.NET.  ? Experience in designing web pages with HTML, JavaScript, CSS, HTML 5, CSS3 and Bootstrap.  ? Good experience in web application framework using MVC architecture.  ? Strong experience about Object Oriented technology for software design and implementation.  ? Sound Knowledge about Design Patterns and Multithreading.  ? Good knowledge about PLC, SCADA, IO Modules, PLC Programming Languages, OPC, Profinet, TCP/IP, HTTP.  ? Having experience working with Real time OS like the CE 5.0, 7.0.  ? Strong debugging skills, enjoy troubleshooting, ongoing challenges understanding of performance related issues and continuous learning of new systems and software, adaptive to different technologies on different platforms.  ? Good experience with development methodologies like Waterfall model, Agile development, Scrum methodology, Test Driven Development.  ? Self-starter with good leadership abilities and team spirit. Managed team events.  ? Excellent communication & interpersonal skills with abilities in resolving complex software issues. Work Experience .NET Developer Amex - Manhattan, NY January 2018 to Present American Express, world's largest card issuer, a processor of millions of transactions daily, and a partner that provides business-building services to a worldwide merchant base.  VISE (Visual Information Search Engine) is a family of capabilities to gain deeper understanding of Members and activities to drive deeper Engagement. VISE provides gives comprehensive details about member details at fingertips which help in decision making.    Responsibilities:  ? Developed MVC application using ASP.NET MVC 4, C#, Entity Framework, Jquery, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3.  ? Created Controllers and Models for the business logic and data manipulations.  ? Used Elastic search as the search engine framework for faster search results  ? Used Bootstrap framework to create Responsive web applications which automatically adjust themselves to good looking on all devices.  ? Used C# as type-safe object oriented programming.  ? Used Razor Views, Partial views to enable fast coding work flowable, and quickly integrate server code into HTML markup with a minimum of keystrokes.  ? Developed a RESTful API using Web API that provided member information.  ? Implemented Repository Pattern by using Dependency injection on MVC Controller level to decouple modules and to perform Unit Testing.  ? Used JSON for standardized data exchange format for Ajax-style web applications.  ? Used JSON serialization to serialize and deserialize data in JSON format.  ? Used Entity Framework as an interface from data access layer and database.  ? Used AJAX and JQuery for faster and interactive web experience.  ? Used LINQ to Entities for retrieving and filtering the data proficiently.  ? Created View Models to encapsulate all models and classes used on the different views for more stable, organized and clean code for reuse in Views.  ? Developed Stored Procedures, Functions.  ? Followed Test Driven Development for unit tests to drive the design of software and force decoupling of dependencies.  ? Used SVN for version control, followed Agile Scrum Methodology    Environment: NET Framework 4.5, C#, ASP.NET MVC 4, Razor, WebAPI, jQuery, CSS3, Bootstrap ,HTML 5, VS 2013, JSON, SQL Server 2012, Entity Framework 6.0,LINQ, Visual Studio 2012,TFS, IIS 8.0,Agile Methodology. .NET Developer Amex - Manhattan, NY May 2016 to December 2017 Employee Management System is an intranet web-based project for the employees and administrators. Employee can update their personal information, request for leave and submit report. Administrator can add employee records, task status, announcements and project details.    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in designing and coding for web forms of the application with ASP.NET.  ? Designed and developed UI, by using User Controls, and Client-Server Side Validation Controls using ASP.NET and JavaScript.  ? Involved in retrieving data using ADO.NET with C#, ASP.NET and presenting it to presentation layer.  ? Developed web Forms application in .net framework.  ? Used Form Based Authentication for the Application as a .NET Security measure by providing a login page.  ? Used DataGrid, DataList and Data Repeater to display data from the Database.  ? Developed customized user controls and composite controls for various application specific functions.  ? Used Validation Controls like Required Field Validator, Compare Validator and Regular Expression Validator for the validation.  ? Data access layer functions in ADO.NET for SQL Server interactions were developed using SQL Data Adapter, Data Reader and Data Sets.  ? Created Stored Procedures and User Defined Functions.    Environment: ASP.NET,C#.Net, Web user Controls, SQL Server 2008, Java Script, .Net Framework 3.5, Agile Methodology, MVC, Visual Studio 2010,TFS. Software Developer GE September 2014 to March 2016 The QuickPanel Plus is a high performance controller with built in HMI functions which supports Windows CE 7.0 OS. It features latest touch screen technology and is an all-in-one device: Operator Interface, Process Controller, Machine gateway and data historian. The Scope of work involves integrating the Hardware component with software component of PME and ensures it supports all the existing functions similar to the present Quick Panel View hardware.    Responsibilities:  ? Feasibility analysis and porting the Windows CE 5.0 components compatible to Windows 7.0 CE.  ? Developed COM component based on C++ for adding a new node QuickPanel Plus target in the existing PME product suppported target.  ? Updated into the existing architecture to support the download functionality to the Quick Panel Plus target.  ? Updated into the existing COM component architecture to support validation of QuickPanel Plus target tags.  ? Added functionality into existing COM component architecture to generate tags binary file.  ? Support for Quick Panel Plus tags in Tag Database C# component.  ? Interacting with the cross functional team for any issue in relation to firmware of the module.  ? Preparing unit test cases, unit-testing  ? Handing off the build to the QA team for further validation.    Environment: VC++, C#.NET, COM, VS 2003,TFS, SVN Software Developer GE March 2012 to August 2014 EPIK "Ethernet Based Protocol integration Kit" will help in faster and easier integration of industrial protocols on to GEIP Programming Software Tool. This will include support for IEC 61850-Substation protocol for GEIP PLC products. E-PiK in general shall provide user friendly development framework for Third party protocols. The scope of the project work is to connect to a customized IEC61850 compliant OPC Server, retrieves Tag Info and configure them in PME software. Also to compile and download the Tags related configuration binary files to the new Hardware called SBC(Single Board Computer). The SBC (Single Board Computer) would host Windows CE 7.0 OS version and has some windows based OPC Client application that communicates over IEC61850 protocol to IEC61850 Sub-Station devices. The idea here is to enable communication between the Read/Write Tags of IEC61850 device with the GEIP based PLC's to automate the Sub-Station with control signals of the PLC.    Responsibilities:  ? Understanding Firmware Requirements and generating the Functional Requirement Specification  ? Studying the architecture of existing PME product and designing the prototype  ? Coding the major components like EPIK Client Node, Download file mechanism  ? Preparing the unit test cases, unit-testing, debugging, bug fixing  ? Handing off the software module to Firmware Development for testing their Proof of Concept    Environment: VC++, C#.NET, COM, VS 2003, TFS, SVN Software Developer GE September 2007 to February 2012 High Speed Counter (HSC): The High Speed Counter module for the GEIP PLC series provides direct processing of rapid pulse signals up to 80 kHz for industrial control applications such as: Turbine flowmeter, Meter proving, Velocity measurement, Material handling, Motion control, Process control. These modules can sense inputs, process input count information and control outputs without communicating with the CPU.    Responsibilities:  ? Understanding Hardware Requirements and generating Functional Requirement Specification document for Software Module equivalent  ? Studying the existing architecture of the HWC Modules and designing the prototype  ? Involved in Conference meeting with Marketing Team for showing incremental Prototype demo.  ? Re-designing and Coding the major components HSC Module Class component  ? Preparing the unit test cases, unit-testing, debugging, bug fixing  ? Handing off the software module to Quality people.    3rd Party Tool Integration: This is a tool that increases the productivity of the developer for loose couple integration of third Party PLC Software application from the Main UI of PME application. This module was designed in C#.NET.    Responsibilities:  ? Understanding the existing architecture of adding third party components  ? Designing the prototype to automate linking to third party installed module from XML file  ? Preparing the unit test cases, unit-testing, debugging, bug fixing.  ? Handing off the software module to Quality team.    Support for Rx3i CPE 310 and 305 modules with enhanced Functionalities:  GE IP has redesigned the RX3i IC695CPU310 with even more advanced technology. The new design will reduce maintenance, increase performance and protect backward compatibility. Key new features for the new CPU are built-in Ethernet, a USB master service port and battery-less dynamic data retention and three times the performance of previous CPU.    Responsibilities:  ? Understanding the hardware/firmware requirements and study the existing architecture of adding software component CPU Modules  ? Designing the prototype  ? Preparing the unit test cases, unit-testing, debugging, bug fixing  ? Handing off the software module to Quality team.    PME View - Kepware Phase III Integration of View OPC Drivers: This new feature is used to integrate the third party (Kepware) OPC drivers to expand the capabilities of the HMI product to communicate with all other major categories of PLCs available in industrial automation. These are Allen-Bradley, Yokogawa, and Siemens etc.    Responsibilities:  ? Understanding the Marketing Requirements  ? Studying the architecture of the existing party OPC server and designing the prototype to support the third party OPC server  ? Coding the major components like View OPC Client Editor Side  ? Preparing the unit test cases, unit-testing, debugging, bug fixing  ? Handing off the software module to Quality people.    PME-View - Performance Optimization for View OPC Driver: PME-View application can be used to create HMI application to communicate to third party PLCs using OPC server communication. And to configure third party OPC Drivers (Kepware in this case), user can use PME user interface to add channels (View OPC drivers) and devices. In the current PME View Runtime architecture, for every new device, it adds a new group in the OPC Server; each group in the server contributes to resources overhead such as more memory overhead and thread count. Thus, if a very large number of devices are added to the server, the communication to the IO tags fails because this causes Virtual Memory crunch. This new feature is used to optimize the group count created in the OPC server.    Responsibilities:  ? Understanding MFR Document.  ? Developing prototype.  ? Coding the modules involved  ? Developing the unit test cases.  ? Handing off the software module to Quality people    Environment: VC++, C#.NET, COM, VS 2003, TFS, SVN Education Bachelor's Skills .NET, C#, C/C++, C++, VC++ Additional Information Technical Skills:    Programming Languages: C/C++, VC++, C# .NET, ASP.NET, JavaScript, MFC, COM  .NET Technologies: ASP.NET, WCF, SOA, Entity Framework , Web Forms, Web Services, IIS, MVC 4.0, ADO.NET, WebAPI  Web Technologies: HTML5, XML, JSON, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, SOAP, AJAX, jQuery    Appreciation/Awards  Above and Beyond Award for demonstrating expertise in handling critical customer defects for big Customers with good turnaround time and a fixing a Performance issue in quick turnaround time.