SR. SOFTWARE DEVELOPER SR. <span class="hl">SOFTWARE</span> <span class="hl">DEVELOPER</span> SR. SOFTWARE DEVELOPER - PRESTIGE STAFFING Edison, NJ • 10+ years of experience in Application analysis, Design, Development, Maintenance and Supporting web, Client-server based applications in Java/J2EE technologies  • Having experience in Airflow and OOZIE workflows.  • Experience with Oozie Workflow and Airflow Engine to automate and parallelize Hadoop, Map Reduce, hive and pig.  • Extensive experience with wiring SQL queries using HiveQL to perform analytics on structured data.  • Experience in performing data validation using HIVE dynamic partitioning and bucketing.  • Worked on Cassandra database and related web services for storing structured data.  • Experience in implementing algorithms for analyzing using spark.  • Experience in implementing Spark using Python and SparkSQL for faster processing of data.  • Familiarity on real time streaming data with Spark, Storm and Kafka.  • Expert knowledge over J2EE Design Patterns like MVC Architecture, Singleton, Factory Pattern, Front Controller, Session Facade, Business Delegate and Data Access Object for building J2EE Applications.  • Excellent experience in java core Design Patterns.  • Expertise with Application servers and web servers like Oracle WebLogic, IBM WebSphere, Apache Tomcat, JBOSS and VMware.  • Having experience in SOA, Web Services and RESTFul.  • Defining Test Cases, analyzing bugs, interaction with team members in fixing errors, Unit testing and User Acceptance Testing (UAT).  • Experience in creating and maintaining the requirements definition documents that included Business requirements and Functional requirements.  • Exceptional problem solving skills and ability to quickly adapt to new challenges.  • Good understanding of Object Oriented Programming (OOPs).  • Excellent experience in Spring, Hibernet, Struts,JMS, Portal, JQuery, Hibernate and JSF.  • Having experience in Oracle and PL/SQL.  • Expertise in using JDBC, Servlets and JSP for developing most of the applications.  • Experienced in developing the unit test cases using MRUnit, JUnit and Jenkins.  • Knowledge on Build tool Jenkins.  • Experience in using Maven and ANT for build automation.  • Experience in using version control and configuration management tools like SVN, CVS.  • Experience working in environments using Agile (SCRUM) and Waterfall methodologies.  • Hands-on experience in Big Data/Hadoop and ecosystem.  • Excellent experience in Hadoop, MapReduce, Spark, Hive, pig, Hbase, Kafka, storm, Flume, Scala and Sqoop.  • Experience in multiple Hadoop distributions like Cloudera, Horton works and AWS.  • Familiarity with NoSQL databases in Hbase, Cassandra and MongoDB.  • Experienced with AWS S3 and EMR.  • Expertise in Data ingestion using SQOOP, Apache Kafka, Spark Streaming.  • Experienced in data analysis using Hadoop and extensive experience in writing map reduce jobs in java.  • Implemented custom business logic and performed join optimization, secondary sorting, custom sorting using Map Reduce programs  • Experience in designing applications using UML Diagrams like Class Diagram, Component Diagram, Sequence Diagrams, and Deployment Diagram using MS Visio, Rational Rose.  • Expertise in database modeling, administration and development using SQL and PL/SQL in Oracle (8i, 9i and 10g), My SQL, Teradata and SQL Server environments. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience SR. SOFTWARE DEVELOPER PRESTIGE STAFFING - Austin, TX July 2018 to Present RESPONSIBILITIES  • Refactor existing asp.net event driven forms to MVC Controllers.  • Implement redesign of legacy forms to Angular CLI components.  • Designed Graphical User Interface (GUI) using bootstrap, JQuery, CSS classes and Custom Controls for main workflow and integration with other applications.  • Develop messaging module integrating main application with twilio service.  • Used Prime NG controls like data table, modals, and grids in some web pages.  • Full integration of web application with Acuity scheduling service.  • Extensively used concepts of generics, dependency injection, and Inheritance in C#.NET, along with abstract classes/Interfaces and Polymorphism.  • Use JavaScript for triggering Pop-ups with a CSS-class, dynamic forms that include built-in error checking, dynamic design, and validations.  • Implement Application code using layered architecture.  • Work with Table Design, triggers, and database model.  • Created Stored Procedures, Views and User Defined Functions for fetching relevant data to UI for different reports.  • Work remotely with teams around the world and mentor them during times of despair.  • Collaborate with team for rapid design decisions  • Remediate web vulnerabilities including XSS, SQL Injection exposed by security reports.  • Consume and present WCF services equipped with SoapUI and Fiddler to analyze requests and responses.  • Project leadership and full track of backlog, activities, and estimates.  • Provide technical architecture analysis, design, development, and enhancement.  • Manage resources, assign activities and lead status meetings directly to the client.  • Full development of project with Angular 2 technologies, Typescript, webpack, and .Net web API for data access.  • Extensive involvement in all stages of application development life cycle (SDLC) including requirements, design, development, implementation, and support.  • Implemented project by following Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) steps.  • Provide process, data and object modeling in a variety of application and database environments.  • Provide database design, development, and enhancement, as well as management and coordination of changes to existing applications.  • Develop Web Pages using Single Page Applications Framework, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, Angular 2, Typescript  • Design Rich user Interface Applications using JavaScript, JQuery, CSS, HTML, AJAX and Angular2  • Consume JSON data in an Angular2 service and Returned JSON data from an ASP.NET controller  • Implement extreme programming by using fast paced Agile methodology, involving in task completion, user stories, and iterations.  • Implement client side validations using JQuery, Angular JS and server-side validation using ASP.NET MVC Validation at Controller level  • Develop Reports View using MVC, Razor and Entity Framework.  • Develop and deployed web services and web api using Visual Studio.  • Assist with manual asp.net deployments across Dev, QA, Stage and Production server environments.  • Troubleshoot and resolve defects. SR. SOFTWARE DEVELOPER SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS - Holmdel, NJ June 2016 to July 2018 RESPONSIBILITIES  • Help manage and guide team in building HR compliant software.  • Design and share development concepts with teams.  • Deploy and maintain TeamCity automated build server.  • Wrote nsh files for bladelogic to take snapshot, drift of configuration files and store them in svn repository.  • Worked on web project to initiate backend bladelogic actions, worked on html, javascript and java files.  • Used Spring Framework for application integration; used hibernate for database access.  • Created web pages to ask user to enter either rfc (request for change) or vt (virtual ticket) number when submitted a web request, also worked on the backend controller and validators.  • Used java as web services client to access remote webservices  • Used a svn library called svnkit to view svn directory and svn files, created dynamic web pages to display their content  • Maintain and debug Legacy HR web application.  • Requirements gathering using agile methodology. SOFTWARE DEVELOPER THE DENZEL GROUP - Philadelphia, PA May 2014 to June 2016 RESPONSIBILITIES  • Manage software engineers to meet client need in a timely manner.  • Built and maintained transaction sets for existing EDI System.  • Designed and built WCF Services to accept data objects to evaluate incoming data.  • Implemented BizTalk to read EDI transactions and passed data through WCF web services for evaluation and workflow decision making.  • Built and maintain databases in Access 2007, SQL Server 2005 and SQL Server 2008.  • Designed Built and maintained stored procedures, functions and linked servers on SQL Server 2005 and SQL Server 2008.  • Designed and published reports with Microsoft Reporting Services and Microsoft Excel.  • Displayed reported data through ASP.NET web forms using VB.NET and C# code behind.  • Built mobile applications for scanning of product barcodes with Socket Scanners with C#.  • Sync mobile devices with headquarters SQL 2008 databases using Microsoft Sync Framework.  • Pivoted communication between IT department, consultants and upper management. SR. SOFTWARE DEVELOPER NCINO - Wilmington, NC April 2012 to May 2014 RESPONSIBILITIES  • Revamped existing websites built in ASP.NET to match specifications brought together as a team.  • Designed databases in SQL Server Express, SQL Server 2000 and SQL Server 2008.  • Created dynamic content for client-side web forms using ASP.NET with C#.  • Developed Java native interface for Android and implementation.  • Implemented iOS project in to 3 different components (API, GUI, RON).  • Implemented and configured React Native environment that targets both iOS and Android.  • Worked extensively on table view controller and made customized table view cells according to the client.  • Worked on the Copilot Integration Kit framework provide by ALK to validate different types of XML files.  • Coordinating with Backend team to display the correct data format in devices as per business logic.  • Design and develop the cross-platform app engine using C/C++ for both IOS and Android.  • Sharing a common C++ library between iOS and Android to maintain the same business logic.  • Accounted for Service Integration Development and Testing.  • Familiar with XCode built-in Instruments for debugging, and solved Debugging issues onsite as required.  • Responsible for testing application via Hockey app.  • Formatted the data as per business rule to display User interface.  • Tested the application leakage, deployed and tested the application on different iPhone's firm-ware, fixed relevant bugs for leakage purpose, and resolved memory management issues.  • Develops and tests documentation for the software projects.  • Implemented 53 different types of API's as per the customer requirement, which interacts with C++ library.  • Handling the GCD for Asynchronous background fetches to build more responsive User Interface.  • Delivered the project in a framework to the customer so that they can use in n number of projects.  • Familiar with Agile Environment includes Sprint planning, Retrospective and Daily SCRUM meetings.  • Designed images in Adobe Photoshop for web content.  • Built application tier for maintaining contact lists with MVC logic.  • Download and unzipped files to SQL Server 2000 with automated console application in C#.  • Automated a data import tool for flat files zipped up on the internet. SOFTWARE DEVELOPER NATIONAL WESTERN LIFE INSURANCE - Austin, TX March 2009 to April 2012 RESPONSIBILITIES  • Designed and built imaging tools to work with micro phish scanners including development in VB6, VB.NET and C#.  • Debugged custom Easton imaging software for viewing scanned policies.  • Designed, built and maintained employee management system using Classic ASP and SQL Server 2000.  • Participated in creating and modifying prototypes for ASP.NET/3.0 pages and COM+ components. Reduced coding time, maintenance cost and increased efficiency of the whole system.  • Designed and developed enterprise level web pages utilizing ASP.NET/3.0 and JavaScript. Created about 18 screens including the most complicated in the subsystem, such as gathering children's attendance data on the dynamically generated screen based on specified criteria.  • Created business logic and data access layers utilizing Visual Basic and COM+ technologies. Created classes and modules with methods, functions and properties.  • Generated User (Environment) and Data XML string on ASP.NET/3.0 pages as input parameters for methods of classes in VB components. This approach eliminated dependency on the number and type of parameters and easily integrates with different systems such as UNISYS DMS and others.  • Used ADO.NET/2.6 connection object for Oracle database and COM+ for multiple data stores (Oracle and UNISYS) for transaction management processes.  • Wrote Stored Procedures and Functions utilizing PL/SQL language. Used Output Ref Cursor to return ADO recordset to COM+ component. Used latest and most powerful features of Oracle 9i such as dynamic SQL with late bind variables, implicit and explicit cursors, cursor variables, etc.  • Maintained and helped resolve technical and functional issues for the whole application and assigned subsystem.  • Wrote and updated the System Requirements Specifications and Detail Design Documents for the Payment Management Subsystem.  • Conducted Unit, Integration and Regression System testing.  • Pivoted data on data server using COM+ and VB6 to load balance data streams to client applications.  • Built COM+ components with VB6 for data access to SQL Server 2000 through classic ASP.  • Maintained and debugged custom web collaboration application using classic ASP with VB6.  • Applied minimal ASP.NET techniques to their existing systems using VB.  • Maintained SQL Server 2000 and Access 2000 databases.  • Designed and built custom reports in Microsoft Word for insurance commissions.  • Interacted with all groups of the business: Marketing, Customer Service, Finance, and Operations; Prioritized my tasks based on the business goals of Energy Plus.  • Coordinated effort with Debase and QA Teams to deploy new features; Helped to create or find proper test cases. Identified the root cause of the defects and provided details.  • Wrote Store Procedures, Views and User-Defined Table Types.  • Took active part to achieve company SOX (Sarbanes-Oxley) compliance; Designed and developed Role-based access control (RBAC) for all 3 applications.  • Resolve technical defects; Peer review code; Perform Dev and QA deployments; Created batch files to eliminate manual tasks with SVN deployment process.  • Displayed reported data through classic ASP web forms.  • Designed and built insurance commissions reporting system using classic ASP VB6. Education Bachelor's