Senior Software Developer Senior <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Software Developer - Cox Media Group (Videa) Atlanta, GA • A results-oriented software developer with over 15 years of experience and a proven track record in front-end development, microservices, API, and backend development, cloud and serverless application development, and enterprise distributed systems design and development.  • Involved in all aspects of SDLC: Concept, Design, Development, and CI/CD.  • Worked on various sized Kanban and Agile teams responsible for the development of AWS Serverless and Cloud-based apps, Asp.Net Core MVC and Razor apps, Angular and React web apps, Docker and containerized apps, WPF and Windows Forms desktop apps, DevOps CI/CD pipelines, SSIS Integration and ETL pipelines, WCF, GRPC Protobuf, and Web.API backend services, Mulesoft ESB Integration apps and various relational and document databases and stored procedures based applications.  • A very fast and capable learner and seeking a role where I can utilize my broad and diverse knowledge. Work Experience Senior Software Developer Cox Media Group (Videa) January 2015 to Present • Designed and developed several AWS serverless and cloud solutions and complex data processing pipelines, including ETL and data ingestions workflows dealing with structure and unstructured data to support company internal and external workflows. Serverless apps ingested data from external partners FTP sites (Nielsen Ratings files, comScore Ratings files, Strata TvInvoice 4A files) into internal AWS S3 buckets that kicked off complex orchestration workflows to land data in format for front-end apps. Assisted and worked with off-shore team based in Belarus in writing end-to-end integration tests. Technology Used: AWS CloudFormation, Lambda Functions developed in C# and Python, Step Functions, .Net Core gRPC micro-services hosted on Kubernetes/AKS for custom business logic and data enrichment. Docker containers (for CI/CD/Local Integration Test), C#, Python, YAML, AWS SAM, AWS SMS, AWS Aurora RDS, AWS Postgresql RDS, AWS VPC, AWS EC2, AWS S3, AWS SQS, AWS SNS, Visual Studio, VS Code, Git, SQL Server, .Net Core gRPC services, DataDog for monitoring, Azure DevOps/VSTS  • Designed and developed several C# .Net Core gRPC (Protobuf) micro-services and API endpoints that performed various CRUD functionalities to support company internal apps and properties. Micro-services hosted in Docker containers on Mesos. Assisted in the eventual migration of these micro-services to AKS/Kubernetes. Technology Used: Visual Studio, C#, .Net Core, Asp.Net Core MVC, gRPC, Protobuf, CQRS with Mediatr, TopShelf, HangFire, Docker, Serilog, Dapper, SQL Server 2016, AWS AKS/Kubernetes, AWS SMS, AWS KMS, DataDog  • Designed and developed an Asp.Net Core/React Power BI Embedded application to host internal PowerBI reports. Developed backend .Net Core gRPC service to manage token flow for this app. Technology Used: Asp.Net Core, .Net Core, C#, gRPC, PowerBI, Visual Studio  • Designed and developed several Mulesoft ESB Integration Flows and API Gateway applications that interface with internal apps and third-party systems including Salesforce API. Wrote custom Mulesoft gRPC connectors using Anypoint Studio DevKit to connect with internal gRPC services and various data stores. Later re-wrote and migrated this app to an AWS Serverless app due to company moving all their workload to AWS and off Mulesoft. Technology Used: Mulesoft Anypoint Studio, Java, Mulesoft Dataweave, gRPC, Protobuf, Java, Mulesoft DevKit and ApiKit, RAML, Maven for CI/CD, Salesforce API  • Inherited and updated several QA CLI automation tools in Go and Python to assist QA in performing various DevOps and AWS related tasks.  • Designed and developed several data intensive multi-tenant Asp.Net MVC/Angular web application screens to support revenue management, price prediction, price optimization and recommendation based on the output of SSIS/SAS analytical modules. Application provided CRUD and reporting functionality and a UI dashboard for revenue managers to perform special events, rate and rating management. Technology Used: Visual Studio, C#, VSTS for CI/CD, Git, Asp.Net MVC 5+, Asp Net Core 2+, gRPC, AngularJs 1.5, KendoUI for Angular, Entity Framework 6.0, SQL Server, MS Identity Framework, Nuget packages, Node, Gulp, NPM, Webpack, Bower), StructureMap for Dependency Injection, NMoq, RabbitMQ, Bootstrap, New Relic Senior Software Developer Turner Broadcasting System May 2007 to December 2014 • Lead developer in the major and complex re-write of Turner legacy Ad Sales order booking and management system using a module-based, scalable, service-oriented architecture to support all of Turner digital properties including CNN, TBS, TNT, and TOON. System handled millions of dollars in transactions each month. Developed most of the WCF services, business layer logic, database schemas, stored procedures, and front-end UI. System allows sales associates to book spots, manage spots, and submit orders through a clearance module to Turner's Traffic System for spot scheduling. System allows the importing of proposal, splitting of order by brand, managing spots constraints, product conflicts, and spots exclusions, reporting and printing functionalities. Technology Used: Visual Studio, C#, SQL Server, WCF services, HTML, JavaScript, MSMQ, Reporting services, and third-party Windows Forms controls (DevExpress, Syncfusion, and Actipro)  • Developed AngularJS application sitting over an ASP.NET Web.API and Entity Framework data service to provide search capabilities of Turner's internal data for outside vendors. Technology Used: Visual Studio, C#, Entity Framework, ASP.NET MVC, Web.API, JQuery, JavaScript, AngularJS  • Led the design and implementation of a Budgeting application for sales planner to perform forecast and reporting on Actuals, Sales, and Projections across all Turner properties. Developed a pivot dashboard and various UI views for planners to modify, display, organize, and view data. Technology Used: Visual Studio, C#, SQL Server, WCF, custom Windows services, and third-parties Windows Form and XAML controls (DevExpress, Actipro) Expert Software Developer Turner Broadcasting System October 2000 to May 2007 • Design and developed a web-based Invoice Management system for all of Turner's cable and interactive properties including TBS, TNT, CNN, and CNN.com. Wrote code that provided for the querying, sorting, special handling management, and printing of month-end invoices. Developed invoice layout entirely in HTML, DHTML and CSS and wrote code to convert invoice to different formats such as PDF and Excel. Developed custom data sync wizard that allowed users to automatically FTP into Solbright sites and download, parse, and load invoice files into Turner's internal Invoice database for subsequent on-demand or month-end batch printing. System provided reporting and archiving functionalities and a complete audit trail of invoice revision. System supported the generation and sending of ANSI (X12) and 4A invoice files using EDI to Donovan and ANSI agencies. Technology Used: Visual Studio, C#, SQL Server, ASP.NET Webforms, HTML, CSS, third-party PDF control (PDF Creator).  • Developed a web-based order management system to replace legacy VB6 and COM+ based order management application. Application allowed the managing spots and constraints, demographic and impressions ratings data, and reporting and printing functionalities. Developed workflow, clearance, and validation engine to support order submission to Traffic System. Developed front-end Excel-like spot grid in plain old HTML, CSS, and JavaScript. This was before Ajax libraries or JQuery. Technology Used: Visual Studio, C#, SQL Server, ASP.NET, ASMX Web services, DHTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Inherited ownership of an Invoice Revision Approval classic asp web application that was developed by consultants. Maintained and provided support, bug fixes, and enhancement to this application based on client's requests. Education BSC in Electrical and Computer Engineering UNIVERSITY OF TENNESSEE - Knoxville, TN Skills .net, Visual studio, Api, C#, Docker, Git, Html, Javascript, Typescript, Webpack, Json, .net core, Razor, Vs code, Python, Xml, Database, Sql server, Mysql, Postgres Additional Information Skills & Abilities  LANGUAGES, TOOLS, FRAMEWORK, PLATFORM, SKILLS  • Languages: Proficient: C# Python. Familiar: Typescript, Nodejs, Go, Java  • Cloud: AWS (CloudFormation, S3, Glacier, Lambda Functions, Step Functions, SNS, SQS, CloudWatch, CloudTrail, X-Ray, SMS, EC2, EKS, VPC, Kinesis, Glue, Athena, Secrets Manager), Azure (Azure DevOps, VSTS, Events Hub, Service Fabric, Service Bus, Power BI Embedded, Azure Functions), Mule ESB, Good knowledge in SaaS ( Software as a Service), PaaS (Platform as a Service), and IaaS (Infrastructure as a Service)  • Web: Asp.Net Core, Web.API, MVC frameworks, .Net Core, Razor Pages, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, Angular, React, HTML, CSS, XML, JSON, SOAP, YAML, XAML, Entity Framework, Dapper, OAuth2, JWT, Webpack, NMP, Bower, Gulp  • Database: SQL Server, AWS Aurora RDS (MySql), MongoDB, DynamoDB, Postgres, SQLite, Redis  • Framework/Tools/Platform: Visual Studio, VS Code, JetBrains Rider, Mulesoft Anypoint Studio, SQL, T-SQL, Boxfuse Flyway, LINQ, oData, GRPC, Protobuf, DataDog, Splunk, New Relic, Docker Containers, Docker Hub, Kubernetes, Third Party Control Library (DevExpress, Kendo UI, Syncfusion, Infragistics), Git, GitHub, RabbitMQ, MassTransit, CRQS, Mediatr, xUnit.Net, NUnit, MSTest.  • Soft Skills: Teamwork, Problem Solving, Creativity, Adaptability, Willingness to learn, Effective Communication, Mentoring, Leadership, Quick Learner  • SDLC: Agile, Kanban, Scrum