Senior software Architecture Senior <span class="hl">software</span> Architecture Senior IT Manager, software Architecture and Developer Ventura, CA Seeking a position as a Senior IT Manager, Architecture or Developer in a very diverse team preferably in southern California Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior software Architecture Genuent USA - Los Angeles, CA October 2015 to Present Provided leadership in design, development, architect and management of California Highway Patrol (CHP) cloud based ,mobile and web base applications to extract collisions information and driving violations which were made available over WCF API to be accessed and used by department of motor vehicle (DMV) and Allied agencies insurance companies in conjunction of car insurance and transfer of data to State Wide Traffic Report systems; It provided consumption of electronic collision reports from external law enforcement agencies using a variety of custom or commercial reporting programs in order to reduce the paper reports and allowing faster reporting of collision data to all recipients; Provided development of modern application lifecycle support including Agile project planning and management tools, Assisted identify new technologies, worked with line of business (LOB) and clients to identify opportunities to bring new technology to bear on clients key concerns. Provided advanced diagnostic expertise to data operations staff including expert leadership and assistance in the analysis, identification, and isolation of complex, high-impact problems. Served as liaison between operational and development units to coordinate resolution of software problems. Conducted in-house functional, stress and interoperability testing. Assisted identify new technologies, built prototypes, trained technical staff and worked with customers to identify opportunities to bring technology to bear on their key concerns. Established systems requirements with delivery systems and provided users with training;    Tools: IT Management, Software Architecture, Developer, MS VS C#/C/C++ 2017, 2015, 2013, Cloud, Azure, .NET 4.*, .Net Core, Web API, MVC ASP.NET Web Base, WCF, REST and SOAP Web Services, AWS, , Angular JS, Telerik Kendo UI, jQuery, JavaScript, HTML5, Bootstrap, CSS, Entity Framework, TFS, GIT, AJAX, IIS, LINQ, Agile, Service Oriented Architecture (SOA), Object Oriented Analysis and Design, Test Driven Development (TDD), Algorithms and Data structures, SDLC processes and methodology, IT management, Medical and E Commerce development and support, T-SQL, SQL, Agile, Scrum, IIS, GIT, TFS, SQL Server 2017, 2016, Oracle, MySQL, Windows 7, 10, Linux, Unix Senior software Architecture ADP, LLC - Camarillo, CA November 2014 to October 2015 Provided leadership in design, development, architect and management of mobile and web base financial, payroll, HR software and labor time tracking applications to provide WCF API to provide All HR related business such as Vacation, 401K, retirement, pension, Sick days and Employee performance; Calculated all taxes related to Pay rolls and retirements using MySQL, VS 2013/ 2015 C#, .WCF, Windows Forms, Web API, NET 3.5, 4.0, 4.6.1, ASP.NET, , HTML4, REST and SOAP Web Services, Entity Framework, jQuery, JavaScript, TFS, IIS, AJAX, LINQ, WCF, Service Oriented Architecture (SOA), Object Oriented Analysis and Design, Test Driven Development (TDD), SDLC processes and methodology, IT management, E Commerce development and support, T-SQL, RDLC, ANSI SQL, Stored Procedures, Agile, Scrum, IIS, TFS, SQL Server 2008, 2012, 2014, Oracle, Windows 7, 8 OOA/OOD tools, Test Driven Development (TDD), SDLC processes and methodology. Senior Software Developer Genuent USA - Roseville, CA July 2013 to November 2014 Provided leadership in design, development, architect and management of mobile and web application for financial, environmental, clinical, health laboratories (OpenELIS), medical web services to provide 911 emergency calls tracking and respond team management; Provided quarterly financial reports for senior managers to facilitate the next budget allocations and worked on conversion of Java medical tracking systems called OpenElis to C# application so we can upgrade and maintain locally to facilitate the Fresno county health requirements using technologies such as: WCF, Restful Web Services, xml and SOAP Web Services, Client and Server application, Distributed application services using ASP.NET MVC, C# , Windows Forms, WCF, MS VS C# 2012, 2010, Entity Framework, RDLC, JavaScript, TFS, IIS, E Commerce development and support, Multi-tier systems and application, and Remote Objects. Provided development of modern application lifecycle support including Agile project planning and management tools, version control, build automation to provide continuous deployment needed for efficiently managing software deployment projects. Assisted identify new technologies, built prototypes, worked with line of business (LOB) and clients to identify opportunities to bring new technology to bear on their key concerns. Senior Software Developer Randstad Technologies & Collabra (Bank of America) - Agoura Hills, CA July 2007 to 2013 Provided leadership in design, development, architect and management of Bank of America financial, mortgage and banking mobile, web base application and web services to automate their testing and assisted in porting their legacy data from Ingres data base to Oracle and SQL Server databases, Business Intelligence, Restful Web Services, xml and SOAP Web Services, Client and Server application, Distributed application services ASP.NET, C# application in financial, payroll, accounting and banking applications using MS VS C#/C++2012, 2010, .Net 4.x, JavaScript , TFS, XML, IIS, Multi-tier systems and application, and Remote Objects. Provided development of modern application lifecycle support including Agile project planning and management tools, version control, build automation to provide continuous deployment needed for efficiently managing software deployment projects. Provided advanced diagnostic expertise to data operations staff including expert leadership and assistance in the analysis, identification, and isolation of complex, high-impact problems. Served as liaison between operational and development units to coordinate resolution of software problems. Conducted in-house functional, stress and interoperability testing. Assisted identify new technologies, built prototypes, trained technical staff and worked with customers to identify opportunities to bring technology to bear on their key concerns. Established systems requirements with delivery systems and provided users with training; Provided advanced diagnostic expertise to data operations staff including expert leadership and assistance in the analysis, identification, and isolation of complex, high-impact problems. Senior Software Developer Move Inc - Westlake Village, CA March 2007 to November 2008 Provided leadership in design, development, architect and management of Move Inc. real estate content management, Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) of real state content management, Move Geo Windows and Web Services products for site: www.Realtor.com and www.Move.com using: ASP.NET, C# application in financial, payroll, accounting and banking applications using MS VS C# 2012, 2010, .Net 4.x, JavaScript, TFS, IIS, Multi-tier systems and application, and Remote Objects, Windows Forms, WCF, ETL, Test Driven Development (TDD), OOAD, Multi-Threading, XML Web Services, REST Web Services, Windows Forms application, Client/Server, Multi-tier application, Distributed applications, Object Analysis and Modeling, UML, Design pattern, E Commerce development and support, knowledge of SDLC processes and methodology for distributed systems, Web Application, Remote applications, and Remote Objects. Assisted identify new technologies. Provided development of modern application lifecycle support including Agile project planning and management tools, version control, build automation to provide continuous deployment needed for efficiently managing software deployment projects. Provided advanced diagnostic expertise to data operations staff including expert leadership and assistance in the analysis, identification, and isolation of complex, high-impact problems. Served as liaison between operational and development units to coordinate resolution of software problems. Conducted in-house functional, stress and interoperability testing. Assisted identify new technologies, built prototypes, trained technical staff and worked with customers to identify opportunities to bring technology to bear on their key concerns. Established systems requirements with delivery systems and provided users with training; Provided advanced diagnostic expertise to data operations staff including expert leadership and assistance in the analysis, identification, and isolation of complex, high-impact problems. Senior Software Developer Spherion Universal - Universal City, CA October 2004 to June 2006 Provided leadership in design, development, architect and management of medical system for Kaiser Hospital; Designed and implemented a Case Tracking System by using Microsoft .NET Framework technologies such as web forms and Server-Side control architecture for connecting to AS/400 and SQL Server database server for Los Angeles court house. Developed web services as a software service. Designed C++/C# Windows Forms, XML Web services tended to be information sources that could easily be incorporated into other applications. Worked on full life cycle of software applications including designing and software architecture. Senior Software Developer Continental Data Graphics - A subsidiary of Boeing Corporation - Cypress, CA January 2000 to July 2002 Provided leadership in design, development, architect and management of C#/C++ CAD/CAM Graphic, parts and catalogue document management systems for Boeing and Raytheon aircraft company to replace JRL legacy system; Provided advanced diagnostic expertise including assistance in the analysis, identification, and isolation of complex and high-impact problems. Served as liaison between operational team and testing units to coordinate resolution of software problems. Conducted in-house functional, stress and quality testing to meet restrict FAA requirements. Worked on full life cycle of software design, implementation and architecture. Responsible for technical support and Graphic system deliveries Assisted identify new technologies, built prototypes, Provided software problem resolution, performance analysis and configuration. Coordinated with end users Senior Software Developer Chimera Multi Media - Westlake Village, CA June 1997 to January 2000 Provided leadership in design, development, architect and management of food safety and e-commerce application using GUI C#; Provided advanced diagnostic expertise to data operations staff including expert leadership and assistance in the analysis, identification, and isolation of complex, high-impact problems. Served as liaison between operational and development units to coordinate resolution of software problems. Conducted in-house functional, stress and interoperability testing. Assisted identify new technologies, built prototypes, trained technical staff and worked with customers to identify opportunities to bring technology to bear on their key concerns. Established systems requirements with delivery systems and provided users with training; Provided advanced diagnostic expertise to data operations staff including expert leadership and assistance in the analysis, identification, and isolation of complex, high-impact problems. Software Developer CADAM Inc., A subsidiary - Burbank, CA October 1984 to January 1991 91504    • Provided leadership in design, development, architect and management of C++ CAD/CAM document management systems for Hughes and Raytheon air craft company and printed circuit boards (PCB) applications. Participated in cross-functional teams during all phases of development. Managed Graphic projects and designed various imaging document archiving and retrieval systems, Responsible for leadership of information system projects from concept to delivery; resource management, schedule development, project plan development, risk analyst and technical recommendations. Liaison between client groups and systems programmers while applying change management methodologies to ensure that business requirements are met by system solutions and application stability. Education B.Sc. in Computer Science and Mathematics California State University Skills IT Management, Software Architecture, Developer, MS VS C#/C/C++ 2017, 2015, 2013, Cloud, Azure, .NET 4.*, .Net Core, Web API, MVC ASP.NET Web Base, WCF, REST and SOAP Web Services, AWS, , Angular JS, Telerik Kendo UI, jQuery, JavaScript, HTML5, Bootstrap, CSS, Entity Framework, TFS, GIT, AJAX, IIS, LINQ, Agile, Service Oriented Architecture (SOA), Object Oriented Analysis and Design, Test Driven Development (TDD), Algorithms and Data structures, SDLC processes and methodology, IT management, Medical and E Commerce development and support, T-SQL, SQL, Agile, Scrum, IIS, GIT, TFS, SQL Server 2017, 2016, Oracle, MySQL, Windows 7, 10, Linux, Unix, ASP, CSS, IIS, ASP.NET, SOA, WEB SERVICES, .NET, API, C#, C/C++, C++, Git, JAVASCRIPT, BOOTSTRAP, .NET CORE, WCF, OBJECT ORIENTED, SQL SERVER, MYSQL