Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer with recent experience in Angular & REST API Somerset, NJ Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Software Developer TIAA Bank - Parsippany, NJ April 2018 to Present • Analyze, interface, code and support applications for commercial banking operations.  • Wrote code in C# & Javascript (Angular 4) primarily.  • Used SQL stored procedures extensively to offload data processing close to data hosting.  • Took early ownership of REST API development in the team and set coding standards.  • Interfaced with Business Analysts, client stakeholders, project managers & DevOps during solution delivery. My focus on customer delight has brought me many recommendations  some of which are listed towards the end of document.  • Created overall IT and business customer delight by delivering solutions consistently that  outperformed SLAs in performance and maintainability. Software Developer GAF Materials Corporation - Parsippany, NJ November 2016 to March 2018 Parsippany, New Jersey  November 2016-- March 2018  • Worked on GAF One, an enterprise portal supporting roofing contractors. The goal of the effort was to create a seamless platform for contractors to work with their customers and  help guide them towards GAF product lines, track margins, create BoMs, and place orders  completing the engagement.  • Implemented Entity Framework using a model-first paradigm  • Worked in an agile team with bi-weekly sprints and daily stand-ups to track progress  • Performed maintenance and enhancement on an existing ASP.NET application that  needed integration into the new portal  • Wrote Angular 2 code as part of a larger enterprise application Software Developer CIT Group - Livingston, NJ November 2015 to November 2016 • Worked on Finance Modernization suite of applications  • Performed production support for accounting applications currently in production  • Implemented a fast response data page fetch mechanism with next page fetch-ahead that  sped up wait time between data fetch call backs. We could configure the page size and provided intermediate stop support to cancel server caching on user cue.  • Performed performance tuning on SQL/Server database by;  o Identifying most commonly used queries and indexes available to them. If missing, created indexes.  o Partitioned a few very large table(s) for efficient data insert/update/locate ability.  Created partitioned indexes on these tables.  o Inspected query execution plans to help perform index tuning  United Parcel Services (UPS) Software Developer UPS - Paramus, NJ January 2015 to November 2015 • Wrote a windows service that performed scheduling for warehouse server(s) to reboot themselves under certain configurable conditions  • Wrote and maintained web applications supporting Package Sorting group that used ASP.NET MVC and AngularJS on client.  • Wrote database code in T-SQL to support applications.  • Lead developer to integrate aviation security enhancements Software Developer Nordstrom Bank - Denver, CO June 2014 to December 2014 IT support team to integrate PayPal payment receivable support in their portal  • Interfaced with the internal ESB facade to PayPal to send batch sale, refund & void  transactions and process responses & exceptions  • Created user interfaces in WPF and ASP.NET MVC for internal and external facing  applications. Backend was SQL/Server.  • Wrote windows service that monitored data store for new transactions that haven't been  yet processed for PayPal and send them automatically.  Marsh&McClennan Software Developer Marsh & McLennan Companies - Hoboken, NJ June 2012 to June 2014 Hoboken, New Jersey  June 2012-- June 2014    • Worked in the Risk Analytics team to support applications that provide risk analysis and modeling capabilities in the areas of Cargo Accumulation, Crop Modeling, Premium  Allocation and Risk Profiling  • Wrote Web API wrapper services that exposed parts of portfolio analytics API to calculate  loss and optionally cost (client premium) for a portfolio of risks to internal and external  clients  • Wrote a WPF based GIS tool that called into the Google Geocoding API to decode full  geographic location detail for a portfolio  • Wrote premium calculation and risk profiling application employing AngularJS and Bootstrap on client. Software Developer National Time Systems - Cinnaminson, NJ March 2012 to June 2012 Refactored a Silverlight application that performed staff time management in an airport  for functional and performance issues  • Refines application logic that allocated staff to current day needs. Created test cases in MS-Unit that validated the logic.  • Performed database query tuning and optimization. Software Developer SAC Capital Advisors - Stamford, CT April 2011 to March 2012 Stamford, Connecticut  April 2011-- March 2012    • Provided IT support to the StockLoan & Commissions desk.  • Developed business facing applications such as Borrow Tracker Search, Corporate Access Event Viewer, Target TimeStamp Manager, Pay for Holds Search, Swap Positions Search for use by the PMs and traders.  • Created a template for all applications that saved significant development effort and sped up application delivery times. Software Developer Bloomberg L.P - Skillman, NJ May 2010 to April 2011 • Worked on the fixed income team converting applications from the Bloomberg terminal to windows based desktop applications  • Implemented an internal user interface framework called BLADE / GloDAS  • Participated in agile development methodology with monthly sprints.  • Interacted with Business Analyst and Team Lead on tasks and user experience goals. Software Developer Citigroup - New York, NY January 2009 to April 2010 Added capability to the fixed income team writing a brand new application to streamline  data flow between the front-office, middle -office and operations that had their data  spread across disparate systems such as RAPID, TRIMS, Pipeline (MS Excel), McCracken and MS Sharepoint.  • The team used agile development methodology with bi-weekly sprints.  • Performed regression testing and logged issues in JIRA. Software Developer Time Inc - New York, NY September 2007 to December 2008 Wrote a business metadata capture tool that provided a daily CSV data feed for the Circulation Manager application. This tool performed data reconciliation by sending  conflicts to stakeholders before submission. This is a critical piece of the infrastructure for decision support activities for the Marketing & Sales teams.  • Performed production maintenance and enhancement activities for the Virtual Ticket  based workflow management system. It used a language called MetaScript that is a variant of JavaScript.  • Performed enhancements and production support for Marketing & Sales IT applications Analyst Programmer Merrill Lynch - Hopewell, NJ May 2006 to September 2007 Worked as a systems analyst & developer for the wealth management team and order  management team.  • Worked as a developer for the Executive Order Entry (EoE) application. This application  was responsible for placing and tracking orders through the order management pipeline according to the SEC 10b5-1 ruling which governs insider trading.  • Created design assets (UML Use Cases and Sequence Diagrams) to be consumed by the  development team. Solution Architect Bank Of Nova Scotia - Toronto, ON April 2005 to April 2006 Worked on the solution architecture for Global Credit Inquiry System (GCIS) application  alongside with the internal bank technical architecture group to conform to their  expectations and restrictions. Received sign-off.  • Managed a team of 12 developers during delivery who were distributed onshore and offshore geographically.  • Created Use Case Diagrams, Class Diagrams and Sequence Diagrams using Microsoft  Visio.  • Co-ordinated with the PMO in Project delivery and milestone planning using Microsoft  Project. Software Developer Lighthouse International February 2004 to April 2005 Trainer & Consultant Synergetics International March 2001 to January 2004 Education Bachelor of Science in Physics Mumbai University June 2000 Skills Database, Sql server, Oracle, Oracle 10g, Sql, Asp, Iis, Asp.net, Api, C#, C++, Front-end, Git, Bootstrap, Silverlight, Wcf, Ms project, Svn, Visio, Visual basic, CSS, Javascript Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/seethiyer Additional Information Key Strengths  ? Blend in with team ethos quickly with a focus on cultivating professional relationships  ? Ready and able to jump in where my skills are most needed by the team  ? Effective communication within the team highlighting areas where I need help and  offering where I can.    Technology Skills  Programming Languages C# / C / C++ / Visual Basic  Front-end technologies Windows Forms / ASP.NET / WPF / Silverlight / Bootstrap 3 / Jquery / Angular 2+  Tools RadiantQ Charts / Infragistics / Telerik / MS Visio / MS Project / Auth0  Framework(s) PRISM / Angular 2 / React / Entity Framework  Database(s) SQL Server / Oracle 10g & 11g  Server-side technologies COM+ / IIS / Mule ESB / MSMQ / WCF / Web API / Windows Services  Team Servers VSS / SVN / GIT / TFS  APIs Google reCAPTCHA / Google Geocoding / Paypal    Career Narrative