.NET Developer .NET <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Software Developer Roscoe, IL As an energetic full stack software developer, I have participated in the design, development and support of a number of in-house and client facing web and windows based applications. I’m passionate about software development and possess the drive to take an idea from design to deployment. Work Experience .NET Developer Clover Technologies Group - Hoffman Estates, IL February 2019 to Present ? Converted the Order Entry Processing system for Canadian use which increased revenues by 75%.  ? Implemented distribution center routing logic to help increase productivity at slower DC’s.  ? Implemented order auto release logic to improve distribution productivity and revenues.  ? Implemented address validation logic to help reduce monthly fines from carriers.  ? Provided bug fixes and emergency system builds and releases.  ? Worked with team leads and managers to solve issues and bring their software needs and requirements to fruition.    ? Technology stack: C# WPF, Web API, MVC, VB.NET, MS SQL Server. .NET Developer RR Donnelley - Saint Charles, IL February 2015 to October 2018 Added new features and enhancements for the RMS 2.0 order management system which processes hundreds of thousands of orders per month. Used by big name clients such as  Home Depot, Ace Hardware, Wendy's, etc.  ? Improved product quality by implementing test driven development testing procedures,  which reduced support calls by 60%  ? Improved code unit test coverage from 0% to 80%.  ? Improved front end testing procedures by implementing Selenium and SpecFlow web  browser testing methodologies which has helped reduced browser related errors by almost  90%  ? Participated in daily scrum, weekly planning meetings and code reviews  ? Contributed to the continuous integration process by implementing build automation using  Visual Studio Team System  ? Technology stack: ASP.NET, C#, VB.NET, MVC, Web API. PostgresSQL, JavaScript,  jQuery, Angular (V1), Selenium, SpecFlow Software Developer AmerisourceBergen Technology Group - Buffalo Grove, IL December 2005 to February 2015 Authored new software suite for pharmacy dispensing devices from Sony and Yuyama companies for a large hospital and pharmacy base.  ? Provided new feature development and team lead duties on several projects including code  reviews and task planning  ? Implemented and was responsible for the continuous build automation process which improved timely code delivery to the QA team  ? Performed architecture, design, development, and support on multiple projects within all  phases of software development life cycle  ? Technology stack: ASP.NET, C#, MVVM, VB.NET, TSQL, SQL Server Software Developer Advanced Distribution Solutions - Hoffman Estates, IL June 2005 to December 2005 Added new features and enhancements for the shipping and logistic integration  application for multiple carriers including FedEx, UPS as well as major LTL freight carriers.  ? Software requirement, low level design, code and test application implementation, test  plan/test case development and review of the middleware components under the embedded  real time multi-thread system.  ? Software development and integration of hardware systems for handheld scanners and scales  ? Provided direct Tier 3 support for large customer base  ? Traveled to customer sites for requirements gathering and system design including wireless  network hot spot location  ? Technology stack: C#, VB.NET, SQL Server Education Bachelor's degree in CIS DeVry University Addison - Addison, IL 2000 to 2005 Skills ASP.NET, C#, VB.NET, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap, Razor, Angular JS (v1), PostgreSQL (v10), SQL Server, Selenium, Specflow, Web API, REST, Agile Methodologies, CI, Deployment, Web services, Networking, Design patterns, TDD, SOLID, OOP.