API Developer API <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer Duluth, GA • 5 + years of professional experience as an API developer (Layer 7 technology) using analysis, and design with security web services, maintenance, testing, deployment, and documentation.  • Experience with Agile methodology  • Hands on training with Selenium Tool and GitHub  • Experience in developing Layer7 API integration services using Authentication & Authorization mechanisms.  • Experience administering Layer7 API management capability.  • Experience in Testing the API Service using soapui and postman  • Familiar with monitoring and reporting API gateway logs.  • Experience in installing product & patches, cluster setup, & Policy Migrations.  • Experience in operations support (Troubleshooting production issues)  • Knowledge of data science, machine learning, data engineering.  • Standard Query Language (SQL, any flavor)  • Knowledge of Extensible Markup Language (XML)  • Knowledge of Object Oriented Design (OOD).  • 6 months of work experience as a Scrum Master.  • Facilitated Pre-Solutioning, Release Planning, Sprint Planning, Backlog Grooming, and Retrospective meetings  • Exposure of many programming languages, multi-platform development, Web development, client/server application development, distributed application development, and database design.  • Worked with small and big teams, offshore and onshore teams, startup environments, and agile methodology.  • Extensive involvement in project design, project vision, project outreach and project timelines.  • Have taken ownership of projects and took lead when required.  • Expertise in using vision control system like SVN.  • Experienced in analyzing/understanding the existing code.  • 6 Months experience as a Java Developer  • Excellent analytical, communication, and interpersonal skills with a good team leading qualities.  • Flexible to adapt to new environments, learn & implement the new technologies quickly.  • Self-motivated and enjoy working in a technically challenging environment.    I. T. ACQUAINTANCE:    Languages Java, PL/SQL, C, C++  Scripting Languages JavaScript, jQuery  Databases SQL Server 2008/2012, Oracle 9i/10i/10g, MySQL.  Technologies API Gateway, HTML, HTML5, Servlets, JSP, XML, XSLT, JSTL, Soap, Web Services, WSDL.  Web Frame Works Struts.  Web/Application Servers Web Sphere, Web Logic, JBoss, Tomcat. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience API Developer General motors IT Innovation center January 2014 to February 2019 responsible to develop code, design and create functional specifications and generating documents.  • Used Agile methodology.  • Developed Layer 7 API integration services.  • Administrating Layer 7 API management capability.  • Utilized Agile Scrum practices to help the team increase their velocity.  • As Scrum Master data load using TFS solution  • Facilitated Pre-Solutioning, Release Planning, Sprint Planning, Backlog Grooming, and Retrospective meetings  • Supported Operations - troubleshooting issues.    Environment: CA API Layer7 Gateway, Java, JDBC, Servlets, JSP, XML, HTML, JavaScript, jQuery, CVS, Tomcat, Web Logic, SQL Server, Eclipse, JUnit, Hibernate, ANT, Struts, Linux, Web Services, Tableau. Software Developer Seven CC Group - Chicago, IL July 2012 to December 2012 Role and Responsibilities:  Modify software at the direction of the development manager in order to facilitate integration into existing systems or enhance performance.  • Test code written in Java and document its application performance, clearly communicating any issues to senior programmers.  • Install software and monitor its performance, reporting any issues to support analysts. Teacher Elementary & Middle school August 2003 to June 2012 Role and Responsibilities:  • Played a vital role in children's development and wellbeing through structured games, exercises, and activities.  • Created the plans for yearly, monthly and weekly tasks.  • Followed up to make sure they follow the assigned tasks.  • Interacted with other teachers about the child's development and progress.  • Improved plans based on the feedback and suggestions based on research. Education B.E. in Electronics and Communication Engineering. in Electronics and Communication Engineering Osmania University Skills Eclipse, Api, Svn, Tableau, Linux, HTML, SQL, XML, Jquery, Javascript, Sql Server