Senior Software Engineer Senior <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Senior Software Engineer - JPMorgan Chase Chelmsford, MA Work Experience Senior Software Engineer JPMorgan Chase - Salem, NH July 2013 to Present Senior Developer in the design and development of the next generation Merchant Services Software Development Kit (MSDK), a merchant-controlled software-build solution that reduces costs and time associated with developing custom payments-enabled applications, devices, and systems. Duties involved regular maintenance, new features, and L3 support.  Served as technical lead to design and implement a data-driven REST-like interface to the MSDK, the Universal Message Processor Internet Request Engine (UMPIRE). This component allows merchants to access the full functionality of the MSDK using any language from any platform or mobile device. Implemented using Java servlets utilizing a thread-safe design for use in any web container. Work also involved creating unit tests, performing scans for software vulnerabilities and best-use practices, performance monitoring between releases, creating product documentation and deep-dive instructional videos for end-users. Agile process was used for this product.  Worked closely with QA to create tools that allow UMPIRE to be seamlessly integrated in to the existing proprietary QA testing framework. Software Developer SkillSoft Incorporated - Nashua, NH September 2007 to July 2013 Development of e-Learning software on the SkillSoft Course Player (SCP), a Java applet-based provider of on-demand training and e-learning solutions for global enterprises, government, education, and small to medium-sized businesses. Areas of responsibility included GUI design and layout, presentation of educational materials in formats including text, graphics, audio, and video, integration with 3rd-party Learning Managerment Systems for tracking and reporting of training programs and certifications, web accessibility, and internationalization. Software Developer IBM Corporation - Bedford, MA November 2005 to August 2007 Developing Maximo Enterprise Suite - a web-based enterprise asset management system for large-scale plant operations. Specific duties involved working on the UI framework system and API which allows other business units to develop and install industry-specific XML-based applications within the suite. Work was done in J2EE using JSP, XML, and AJAX, and deployed on BEA WebLogic and IBM WebSphere applications servers. Software Developer Shoebuy.com - Boston, MA September 2004 to October 2005 Developed and maintained a high-volume retail website for purchasing shoes and related accessories and apparel. Responsible both for front-facing web apps using Java Servlets and JSP, and for internal administrative web and batch applications using Perl.  Designed and implemented the Returns Authorization Inventory System for use in managing the warehouse inventory of returned and resellable products.  Designed and implemented the Executive Reporting System, a collection of marketing and sales reports and tools used by upper management and the board of directors.  Implemented various Search Engine Optimization efforts that led to increased search engine exposure and sales. Platform was Solaris servers using Apache, Oracle 8/9, and Tomcat. Software Developer MeetingMaker Inc - Belmont, MA June 2001 to July 2004 Developed web-based calendaring and resource scheduling products. Products were written in DHTML, Perl, and Javascript. Participated in all phases of product development lifecycle. Solely responsible for porting products from MySQL to SQLServer2000, and Oracle 9i databases. Lead programmer for the "WebEvent Publish" calendaring product, responsible for oversight of 4 developers during development, testing, bug tracking/fixing, and release of the product.  Developed dynamic tabbed User Interface using DHTML and Javascript to reduce visual clutter and provide logical grouping of functionality without incurring additional network traffic or performance degradation.  Worked closely with Customer Support staff to rectify individual customer problems. Mentored junior developers in design patterns and OOD/P. Software Developer Inforonics Inc - Littleton, MA January 2000 to May 2001 Developed/maintained eCommerce web applications. Primary duties involved full lifecycle development using Perl, Javascript, and SQL on an Oracle database. Developed the API for the Catalog Editor portion of the Thomas Register - a web-based B2B catalog management system containing approximately 30,000 catalogs from 5000 companies. Responsible for both front-end UI design, middle-tier processing, and database access.  Designed and implemented User Interfaces using HTML and Dreamweaver.  Designed and implemented a doctor referral web application for Blue Cross/Blue Shield using Java, and JSP. Software Systems Engineer MITRE Corporation - Bedford, MA September 1990 to January 2000 Primary duties involved software development and rapid prototyping in support of a new generation mission planner for the U.S. Air Force. Work involved using UML, Java, and C/C++ to develop applications and prototypes either as standalone applications or web browser applets/pages.  Developed a proof-of-concept collaborative flight planning tool. Work involved using Java, Swing, Java2D, JDBC, and SQL to develop prototype GUI's, and developing a peer-to-peer networking protocol to handle sharing dynamically updateable routes and combat mission folders between remote users.  Developed TaskView, a graphical application written in Java and Swing for parsing and displaying Air Tasking Order messages for use by pilots and Strike Commanders. Work involved developing user interface to manipulate data and display it in various textual and graphical formats. Won the General Manager's Award for Excellence.  Developed a prototype weather interface for the AFMSS and JMPS mission planning systems, using Dynamic HTML and Javascript.  Developed software for digital map manipulation in areas of compression and color-correction. Work involved extensive C++ coding on a Unix platform. Asst. Systems Analyst Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Co - Springfield, MA April 1986 to September 1989 Maintenance and development, using COBOL, within the On-Line Automatic Data Entry network and Policy Issue & Policy Print batch networks. Work involved analyzing user needs and requests, writing project time estimates and program specifications, and implementing or supervising coding of new or existing systems. Gained extensive Application Programming experience using IBM MVS/XA. Secondary duties involved development of in-house productivity tools using PASCAL and C in MS/DOS. Software product experience includes ADABAS, Intercomm, UCC7, Eztreive+, IBM TSO/ISPF & JCL. Education M.S. in Computer Science Boston University - Boston, MA 1993 to 1997 Electrical Engineering University of Massachusetts - Amherst, MA 1989 to 1990 B.S. in Computer Science University of Massachusetts - Amherst, MA 1982 to 1986 Skills ECLIPSE, JAVA, SPRING, jQuery, C/C++