Software Engineer <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Software Engineer - MrGlassWindowsAndDoor Fort Lauderdale, FL Over 7 years of professional experience and highly proficient in system analysis and software development (backend - frontend). Experienced in all aspects of the software development lifecycle, I thrive on ideation, experimentation and problem-solving, extremely passionate about new technologies. Work Experience Software Engineer MrGlassWindowsAndDoor June 2017 to Present Development and maintenance of software.  ? Technologies: Ruby MVC, Ruby on Rails, SASS, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, PostgreSQL, Web Services, Heroku, GIT, Bitbucket, CoffeScript, Angular, Ionic.  ? Design and development of the communication API between Mrglass Web App and Tecnoglass.  ? Write maintainable, scalable, responsive, and cross-browser code.  ? UI/UX jQuery and ad-hoc JavaScript used for Front-End validation, set the content to DOM elements, change DOM styling and manipulate its properties and attributes.  ? Design and administration of PostgreSQL Database.  ? Deployment in Heroku.  ? SCRUM meetings. Software Engineer Guerras Enterprises LLC October 2016 to May 2017 Maintenance and adjusts of Shopify theme, integration of Shopify store with ASP.Net MVC application using Restful Services for an order lab test app.  ? Design and development of the communication API between Guerra Enterprises Web App and MinumeroLocal.  ? Technologies: LARAVEL MVC, PHP, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, MySQL, GIT, GitHub, Jira, Boostrap.  ? Write maintainable, scalable, responsive, and cross-browser code.  ? UI/UX jQuery and ad-hoc JavaScript used for Front-End validation, set the content to DOM elements, change DOM styling and manipulate its properties and attributes.  ? Design and administration of MySQL Database. FrontEnd Developer Caterfull June 2016 to September 2016 Development, maintenance and reengineering of software for catering CRM web application.  ? Technologies: AngularJS, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, Python, Django, JavaScript, jQuery, SQL Server, SaaS, Restful Services, Godaddy, GIT, Google's API, Stripe.  ? Write maintainable, scalable, responsive, and cross-browser code.  ? Design and development of UI components, email templates for email marketing campaigns and landing pages.  ? Connect interface to backend services layer via APIs.  ? Promote and communicate new ideas, process improvements and new technologies to team members and leadership.  ? Deployment in Amazon Web Services (AWS) and Windows Azure Cloud Services.  ? Translate the UI/UX design wireframes to code for producing visual elements of the application.  ? UI/UX jQuery and ad-hoc JavaScript used for Front-End validation, set the content to DOM elements, change DOM styling and manipulate its properties and attributes.  ? Add tables, columns, update data to accomplish new added features and business rules.  ? Test code on QA and Staging versions before Release the code to Production Servers (GIT).  ? SCRUM meetings. Software Engineer University of Informatics Sciences September 2011 to May 2016 Development, maintenance and reengineering of software for commercialize and promote web applications products.  ? Technologies: PHP, Symfony, AngularJS, Python, Django, Ajax, jQuery, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, MySQL, MongoDB, Microsoft Access, i18n, i10n.  ? Team: 10 people including 1 Project Manager, 1 Software Architect, 7 Software Engineers.  ? Translate the UI/UX design wireframes to code for producing visual elements of the application.  ? Design and development of Module for Users, Groups and Permissions for Cuban Advertising Site.  ? Data reporting facilities.  ? UI/UX jQuery and ad-hoc JavaScript used for Front-End validation, set the content to DOM elements, change DOM styling and manipulate its properties and attributes.  ? Perform data cleansing for validity, accuracy, completeness, consistency and uniformity, writing scripts for checking integrity and fixing it.  ? Add tables, columns, update data to accomplish new added features and business rules.  ? Update Stored Procedures and Functions.  ? Provide End-User support and bug fixing on legacy applications.  ? Promote and communicate new ideas, process improvements and new technologies to team members and leadership.  ? Work with UI/UX designers and bridge the gap between graphical design and technical implementation.  ? SCRUM meetings. Software Developer Identification and Digital Security Center - Havana, CU October 2008 to June 2011 Business process analysis and development of the Cuban ID System. Backend, Frontend, PHP, Codeigniter, less, JQuery, PostgreSQL.  ? Development of web applications that interact with external devices (cameras, digital signature readers, fingerprint readers) Education Bachelor Degree University of Informatics Sciences - Havana, CU September 2006 to July 2011 Skills Javascript, PHP, MySQL, HTML 5, CSS, Git