Sr Software Developer Sr <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr Software Developer San Diego, CA A highly motivated software engineer with can do attitude, management skills, and a strong user focus. Has designed, developed and supported enterprise applications and have strong interest in using data to build AI applications. Work Experience Sr Software Developer Raintree Systems Inc - San Diego, CA July 2009 to Present • Automated Document filing system using Text Classification Machine   Learning Model.  • Designed and aided in Document OCR and text search capability using   Tesseract.  • Enhanced Data pipeline to collect end users data usage.  • Designed and implemented new revenue model focusing on increased   patient engagement using integrated texting, voice calls, video calls.  • Designed and aided in development of web applets for appointment   confirmation, rescheduling and electronic check-in.  • Designed and aided in development of dashboard, reports and routing   mechanism of outgoing and incoming texts and voice calls.   • Designed and coded enhancements in Scheduled Job Monitoring.  • Helped debug and resolve critical software issues reported daily with rapid   turnaround.  • Rapidly brought programmer trainees to full productivity by working closely   with them on problems derived from actual requirements.  • Managing remote team of developers. Education Bachelor in Engineering in Electronics and Communications USC - Rohtak, Haryana July 2009 to September 2013 MS in Computer Science in Computer Science University of Southern Skills C++, DELPHI, HTML, PHP, PYTHON, mysql, C, Software Development, Javascript Links http://linkedin.com/in/viney22khera Additional Information Software Developer  Raintree Systems, CA / July 2009 - September 2013    • Participated in the design, development and support of number of in-   house and client facing applications.  • Designed and developed Electronic Faxing Queue system.  • Implemented new features and integrations in TASK, Document and   NOTES modules.  • Developed and supported Transcription module.  • Developed and implemented Offline module.  • Developed in-house tool for Direct Connects to client systems.  • Developed and maintained Electronic Medical record specific libraries and   modules like Patient Forms, Encounter Note, Problem (ICD10) record,   dosage calculator.   • Automated workflow for splitting insurance EOB’s across multiple patients.