Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer Baldwinsville, NY Proactive software developer with experience with back-end programming, relational database, and the development and maintenance of complex and critical systems. Adept at designing, implementing, and customising programs. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Developer National Employers Council April 2017 to Present - Syracuse, USA ? Design, develop, test, and maintain .Net programs for image and claim processing for desktop(WPF) and web usage in Visual Studio 2017 (VB and C#). Design software following established architectural patterns. Work with varies levels of the software including user interface in xaml, object model MVVM, logic, and data access layer based on SQL Server database.  ? Design, develop, test, maintain, and improve websites work with C#,  ASP.Net MVC by using some client side technology like as HTML5, CSS3,  Bootstrap, jQuery, javaScript, and Ajax based on SQL Server database.  ? Document requirements, workflows, and user interfaces.  ? Work with project team members to test customizations.  ? Test current and legacy programs at different levels from unit testing to formal integration testing.  ? Investigate, correct and test fixes to software defects.  ? Troubleshoot issues and provide solutions.  1 ? Website References: 1. https://portal.peoplesystems.com/ezreply 2. https://portal.peoplesystems.com/psweb 3. https://portal.peoplesystems.com/usli Software Developer July 2000 to December 2015 Algorithm Pouya - Mashhad, Iran ? Defined software deficiencies and developed plans to improve performance.  ? Define system/user requirements to design, develop, document, test and implement data models, database architecture and DBMS/BI solutions supporting sales, marketing, ecommerce, finance, customer service, billing and other crucial business functions.  ? Updated, modified and expanded existing software programs.  ? Implemented system security and data assurance software.  ? Analyzed requirements and used systematic approaches to implement and document the tasks.  ? Participate in technical design, managing and building new relationships with internal and external customers and great team spirit.  ? Created new software modules based on customer needs.  ? Worked on team and individual development projects to deliver secure, robust and scalable DBMS/BI solutions that helped improve efficiency, information security, data integrity and customer satisfaction.  ? Resolved customer complaints and concerns with strong negotiation. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Software Engineering Azad University 2000 Skills CSS3 (3 years), HTML 5 (3 years), Javascript (3 years), Asp.Net MVC (3 years), JQuery (3 years), Ajax (3 years), SQL (10+ years), C#.NET MVVM (6 years), SSRS (6 years), Crystal Reports (10+ years), Bootstrap (3 years), WPF (6 years)