Sr. Software Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Software Developer - Addison Group Dallas, TX • 11+ years of rich and professional experience in the web application development area with programming languages like .NET and Java.  • Hands-on experience in Big Data/Hadoop and ecosystem.  • Excellent experience in Hadoop, MapReduce, Spark, Hive, pig, Hbase, Kafka, storm, Flume, Scala and Sqoop.  • Expertise in developing & deploying Web Services (SOAP, REST) and Windows Services in C# and VB.NET.  • Extensive usage of User Controls and ASP.NET server controls.  • Experience in working on near shore Model.  • Experience with database development experience with SQL Server 2014, 2012, and 2010 in creating database objects like Stored Procedures/ Views/ Queries/ Triggers.  • Experience in using tools like MS Visio, MS office etc..,  • Strong knowledge in WCF, LINQ, SignalR and SSIS.  • Experience in multiple Hadoop distributions like Cloudera, Horton works and AWS.  • Familiarity with NoSQL databases in Hbase, Cassandra and MongoDB.  • Experienced with AWS S3 and EMR.  • Expertise in Data ingestion using SQOOP, Apache Kafka, Spark Streaming.  • Experienced in data analysis using Hadoop and extensive experience in writing map reduce jobs in java.  • Implemented custom business logic and performed join optimization, secondary sorting, custom sorting using Map Reduce programs  • Having experience in Airflow and OOZIE workflows.  • Experience with Oozie Workflow and Airflow Engine to automate and parallelize Hadoop, Map Reduce, hive and pig.  • Extensive experience with wiring SQL queries using HiveQL to perform analytics on structured data.  • Experience in performing data validation using HIVE dynamic partitioning and bucketing.  • Worked on Cassandra database and related web services for storing structured data.  • Experience in implementing algorithms for analyzing using spark.  • Experience in implementing Spark using Python and SparkSQL for faster processing of data.  • Familiarity on real time streaming data with Spark, Storm and Kafka.  • Expert knowledge over J2EE Design Patterns like MVC Architecture, Singleton, Factory Pattern, Front Controller, Session Facade, Business Delegate and Data Access Object for building J2EE Applications.  • Excellent experience in java core Design Patterns.  • Expertise with Application servers and web servers like Oracle WebLogic, IBM WebSphere, Apache Tomcat, JBOSS and VMware.  • Having experience in SOA, Web Services and RESTFul.  • Strong experience in EJB.  • Excellent experience in Spring, Hibernet, Struts,JMS, Portal, JQuery, Hibernate and JSF.  • Having experience in Oracle and PL/SQL.  • Expertise in using JDBC, Servlets and JSP for developing most of the applications.  • Experienced in developing the unit test cases using MRUnit, JUnit and Jenkins.  • Knowledge on Build tool Jenkins.  • Experience in using Maven and ANT for build automation.  • Experience in using version control and configuration management tools like SVN, CVS.  • Experience working in environments using Agile (SCRUM) and Waterfall methodologies.  • Experience in designing applications using UML Diagrams like Class Diagram, Component Diagram, Sequence Diagrams, and Deployment Diagram using MS Visio, Rational Rose.  • Expertise in database modeling, administration and development using SQL and PL/SQL in Oracle (8i, 9i and 10g), My SQL, Teradata and SQL Server environments.  • Defining Test Cases, analyzing bugs, interaction with team members in fixing errors, Unit testing and User Acceptance Testing (UAT).  • Experience in creating and maintaining the requirements definition documents that included Business requirements and Functional requirements.  • Exceptional problem solving skills and ability to quickly adapt to new challenges.  • Good understanding of Object Oriented Programming (OOPs). Work Experience Sr. Software Developer Addison Group - Dallas, TX August 2018 to Present Responsibilities  • Provide database design, development, and enhancement, as well as management and coordination of changes to existing applications.  • Develop Web Pages using Single Page Applications Framework, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, Angular 2, Typescript  • Design Rich user Interface Applications using JavaScript, J Query, CSS, HTML, AJAX and Angular2  • Consume JSON data in an Angular2 service and Returned JSON data from an ASP.NET controller  • Provide database design, development, and enhancement, as well as management and coordination of changes to existing applications.  • Develop Web Pages using Single Page Applications Framework, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, Angular 2, Typescript  • Design Rich user Interface Applications using JavaScript, J Query, CSS, HTML, AJAX and Angular2  • Consume JSON data in an Angular2 service and Returned JSON data from an ASP.NET controller  • Implement extreme programming by using fast paced Agile methodology, involving in task completion, user stories, and iterations.  • Implement client side validations using J Query, Angular JS and server-side validation using ASP.NET MVC Validation at Controller level  • Develop Reports View using MVC, Razor and Entity Framework.  • Develop and deployed web services and web api using Visual Studio.  • Assist with manual asp.net deployments across Dev, QA, Stage and Production server environments.  • Develop Reports View using MVC, Razor and Entity Framework.  • Develop and deployed web services and web api using Visual Studio.  • Remediate web vulnerabilities including XSS, SQL Injection exposed by security reports.  • Consume and present WCF services equipped with SoapUI and Fiddler to analyze requests and responses.  • Project leadership and full track of backlog, activities, and estimates.  • Provide technical architecture analysis, design, development, and enhancement.  • Manage resources, assign activities and lead status meetings directly to the client.  • Full development of project with Angular 2 technologies, Typescript, webpack, and .Net web API for data access.  • Extensive involvement in all stages of application development life cycle (SDLC) including requirements, design, development, implementation, and support.  • Implemented project by following Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) steps.  • Provide process, data and object modeling in a variety of application and database environments. Sr. Software Developer Teksystems Cutler - Bay, FL, US May 2016 to July 2018 Responsibilities  • Help manage and guide team in building HR compliant software.  • Design and share development concepts with teams.  • Deploy and maintain TeamCity automated build server.  • Wrote nsh files for bladelogic to take snapshot, drift of configuration files and store them in svn repository.  • Worked on web project to initiate backend bladelogic actions, worked on html, javascript and java files.  • Used Spring Framework for application integration; used hibernate for database access.  • Created web pages to ask user to enter either rfc (request for change) or vt (virtual ticket) number when submitted a web request, also worked on the backend controller and validators.  • Used java as web services client to access remote webservices  • Used a svn library called svnkit to view svn directory and svn files, created dynamic web pages to display their content  • Maintain and debug Legacy HR web application.  • Requirements gathering using agile methodology.  • Revamped existing websites built in ASP.NET to match specifications brought together as a team.  • Designed databases in SQL Server Express, SQL Server 2000 and SQL Server 2008.  • Responsible for testing application via Hockey app.  • Formatted the data as per business rule to display User interface.  • Tested the application leakage, deployed and tested the application on different iPhone's firm-ware, fixed relevant bugs for leakage purpose, and resolved memory management issues.  • Develops and tests documentation for the software projects.  • Implemented 53 different types of API's as per the customer requirement, which interacts with C++ library.  • Handling the GCD for Asynchronous background fetches to build more responsive User Interface.  • Delivered the project in a framework to the customer so that they can use in n number of projects.  • Familiar with Agile Environment includes Sprint planning, Retrospective and Daily SCRUM meetings.  • Designed images in Adobe Photoshop for web content.  • Built application tier for maintaining contact lists with MVC logic.  • Download and unzipped files to SQL Server 2000 with automated console application in C#.  • Automated a data import tool for flat files zipped up on the internet. Software Developer Highplains Marketing Services - Centennial, CO February 2013 to April 2016 Responsibilities  • Manage software engineers to meet client need in a timely manner.  • Built and maintained transaction sets for existing EDI System.  • Designed and built WCF Services to accept data objects to evaluate incoming data.  • Implemented BizTalk to read EDI transactions and passed data through WCF web services for evaluation and workflow decision making.  • Created dynamic content for client-side web forms using ASP.NET with C#.  • Developed Java native interface for Android and implementation.  • Implemented iOS project in to 3 different components (API, GUI, RON).  • Implemented and configured React Native environment that targets both iOS and Android.  • Worked extensively on table view controller and made customized table view cells according to the client.  • Worked on the Copilot Integration Kit framework provide by ALK to validate different types of XML files.  • Coordinating with Backend team to display the correct data format in devices as per business logic.  • Design and develop the cross-platform app engine using C/C++ for both IOS and Android.  • Sharing a common C++ library between iOS and Android to maintain the same business logic.  • Accounted for Service Integration Development and Testing.  • Familiar with XCode built-in Instruments for debugging, and solved Debugging issues onsite as required.  • Built and maintain databases in Access 2007, SQL Server 2005 and SQL Server 2008.  • Designed Built and maintained stored procedures, functions and linked servers on SQL Server 2005 and SQL Server 2008.  • Designed and published reports with Microsoft Reporting Services and Microsoft Excel.  • Displayed reported data through ASP.NET web forms using VB.NET and C# code behind.  • Built mobile applications for scanning of product barcodes with Socket Scanners with C#.  • Sync mobile devices with headquarters SQL 2008 databases using Microsoft Sync Framework.  • Pivoted communication between IT department, consultants and upper management. Software Developer Denali Systems, Inc - Denver, CO October 2010 to January 2013 Responsibilities  • Maintained and debugged custom web collaboration application using classic ASP with VB6.  • Applied minimal ASP.NET techniques to their existing systems using VB.  • Maintained SQL Server 2000 and Access 2000 databases.  • Designed and built custom reports in Microsoft Word for insurance commissions.  • Developed new features and maintained enterprise level Intranet applications utilizing the latest technologies and techniques: .NET 4.0 with MVC 3 (Razor view engine) and WCF (SOA layer), C#, SQL Server 2008 R2, NHibernate, Entity Framework (Code First), Typescript JavaScript, jQuery and Plug-ins, AJAX, JSON, LINQ, TDD, BDD, NUnit, Subversion (SVN).  • Resolved the most critical defects from JIRA issue log; Analyzed and suggested solution to enhance business critical processes and improve performance; Identified potential problems in the system and recommended options to resolve it; Refactored and optimized Code; Provided estimate of efforts.  • Interacted with all groups of the business: Marketing, Customer Service, Finance, and Operations; Prioritized my tasks based on the business goals of Energy Plus.  • Coordinated effort with Debase and QA Teams to deploy new features; Helped to create or find proper test cases. Identified the root cause of the defects and provided details.  • Wrote Store Procedures, Views and User-Defined Table Types.  • Took active part to achieve company SOX (Sarbanes-Oxley) compliance; Designed and developed Role-based access control (RBAC) for all 3 applications.  • Resolve technical defects; Peer review code; Perform Dev and QA deployments; Created batch files to eliminate manual tasks with SVN deployment process.  • Displayed reported data through classic ASP web forms.  • Designed and built insurance commissions reporting system using classic ASP VB6. Leader Hyatt - New York, NY July 2008 to September 2010 Software Developer    Responsibilities  • Designed and built imaging tools to work with micro phish scanners including development in VB6, VB.NET and C#.  • Debugged custom Easton imaging software for viewing scanned policies.  • Designed, built and maintained employee management system using Classic ASP and SQL Server 2000.  • Participated in creating and modifying prototypes for ASP.NET/3.0 pages and COM+ components. Reduced coding time, maintenance cost and increased efficiency of the whole system.  • Designed and developed enterprise level web pages utilizing ASP.NET/3.0 and JavaScript. Created about 18 screens including the most complicated in the subsystem, such as gathering children's attendance data on the dynamically generated screen based on specified criteria.  • Created business logic and data access layers utilizing Visual Basic and COM+ technologies. Created classes and modules with methods, functions and properties.  • Generated User (Environment) and Data XML string on ASP.NET/3.0 pages as input parameters for methods of classes in VB components. This approach eliminated dependency on the number and type of parameters and easily integrates with different systems such as UNISYS DMS and others.  • Used ADO.NET/2.6 connection object for Oracle database and COM+ for multiple data stores (Oracle and UNISYS) for transaction management processes.  • Wrote Stored Procedures and Functions utilizing PL/SQL language. Used Output Ref Cursor to return ADO recordset to COM+ component. Used latest and most powerful features of Oracle 9i such as dynamic SQL with late bind variables, implicit and explicit cursors, cursor variables, etc.  • Maintained and helped resolve technical and functional issues for the whole application and assigned subsystem.  • Wrote and updated the System Requirements Specifications and Detail Design Documents for the Payment Management Subsystem.  • Conducted Unit, Integration and Regression System testing.  • Pivoted data on data server using COM+ and VB6 to load balance data streams to client applications.  • Built COM+ components with VB6 for data access to SQL Server 2000 through classic ASP.  • Designed, built and maintained Excel workbooks with VB macros to display and calculate data within automated workflow processes. Education Bachelor's Skills ADO, DATABASE, MS ACCESS, ADO.NET, MS SQL SERVER, SQL SERVER, ORACLE, SQL, DATABASE DEVELOPMENT, ASP, CSS, ASP.NET, .NET, VISUAL STUDIO, API, C#, DESIGN PATTERNS, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, BOOTSTRAP Additional Information Technical Skills:  Programming Languages C#, VB.NET, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Typescript  Web Technologies ASP.NET, MVC, Web API, HTML, CSS, JQuery, JavaScript, Angular 2, XML, Bootstrap, WSDL  .NET Technologies .NET Framework (3.0, 3.5, 4.0, 4.5), ADO.NET, Entity Framework, LINQ  Design Patterns MVC, MVVM, Singleton, Proxy, Template  Integration Tool Post Man  Database Development MS SQL Server 2014, 2012, and 2010, Oracle 11g2; MS Access  Software Methodologies SDLC, Agile, Waterfall  Source Repositories TFS, Tortoise SVN, Visual Source Safe  RAD/IDE Visual Studio 2003/2005/2008/2010/2012/2013, 2017  Modeling and Design Tools Microsoft Visio 2003, UML  Operating Systems XP, Windows Vista, Windows  Other LINQ, Entity Framework, Enterprise Library, Node JS, Webpack, PrimeNG