Software Architect/ Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> Architect/<span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Architect Warwick, RI A multi-talented Software Architect with experience in all facets of the software development life cycle.  Possessing excellent problem solving skills coupled with a drive to succeed and the ability to learn and adapt to  new technologies and challenges as the present themselves. Will not shy away from any challenge and will  meet it head on and do whatever it takes to get the job done. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Architect/ Developer TURINO GROUP - Providence, RI January 2018 to Present • Architected and built a system processing to process compile and aggregate life insurance case status.  This process broke down and aggregated files from various sources provided in the industry standard - Acord format.  • Developed a data warehouse to supply reporting capabilities for better tracking of the aggregated data.  • Assisted in building data sources and reports using Tableau on top of the data aggregated from case status feeds.  • Integrated the resulting data into an existing front end website to provide a visual representation for agents to follow their cases throughout the process.  • Architected and built a NCAA tournament website from the ground up using .NET Core including the integration of real-time sports feeds.  • Prototyping for various mobile applications using a both React-Native and Xamarin. Software Architect Mediware Information Systems - Lincoln, RI July 2006 to January 2018 Rearchitected our flagship software from a 2-tier WPF application backed with a homegrown ORM and riddled with performance issues to a 3-tier implementation backed with Entity Framework running and WCF.  ? Utilized advanced database optimization skills to assist in tuning and scaling our flagship 2-tier WPF  application to improve its customer experience.  ? Co-Architected a warehouse style Erx processing service capable of handling large transaction loads  via a web api sitting on top of Entity Framework and SQL Server. This service is not a shared  implementation used across the entire product line and runs with minimal maintenance.  ? Was a key player in leading the charge as we migrated our legacy applications to our new go forward  platform. Able to easily adapt to new technologies and move between various software products with ease.  ? Sole developer rearchitecting a Windows Mobile Application to a connected/offline Electronic Medical  Record Winforms .NET desktop application working with Sync Framework to allow for a full offline  experience capable of syncing back to the same database our desktop application was built upon.  ? Major part of our Java team working on our (then) main application sitting on top of SQL Server and running on a homegrown data tier.  ? Set up TFS and coordinated migrating various software repositories (CVS, SVN) into TFS complete with issue tracking and automated builds.  ? Successfully converted a full Satelite Forms Windows Mobile application to integrate with a .NET  Compact framework backend. Rewrote the desktop sync portion of this same application from VB6 to  C#. Software Engineer HealthCare Business Services LLC - Cumberland, RI July 2003 to July 2006 Served as the software design and implementation lead, responsible for all stages of the development  cycle.  ? Responsible for redesigning and rebuilding the entire software line to work with multiple database  platforms and configurations.  ? Implemented design patterns to promote reuse across various products resulting in more highly  maintainable and streamlined code. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science Roger Williams University - Bristol, RI June 2003 Skills DATABASE (10+ years), C# (10+ years), JAVA (4 years), WINDOWS PRESENTATION FOUNDATION (4 years), XML, Jquery (3 years), HTML (4 years), Javascript (3 years), Sql Server (10+ years), Javascript, Jquery, XML, HTML Additional Information Skills    C# - 10 Years  IIS - 5 Years Database Engineering - 5 Years  VB.Net - 6 Years TFS - 7 Years Java - 5 Years  SQL - 10 Years  WPF - 4 Years  Delphi - 3 Years  SSIS/SSRS/SSAS - 8 Years  WCF - 6 Years  Entity Framework - 7 Years Database Tuning - 4 Years