Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software developer - Fintelligence, Inc Redford, MI C, Swift, C++, C, C#, JavaScript (ECMAScript, JScript), Powerbuilder, MySQL, NoSQL, Oracle, Ruby, Python, Perl, Java, flex/lex, bash/sh, and Windows Batch Files  Cocoa Touch, PromiseKit, Decodable, RestKit, AFNetworking, Core Data, MagicalRecord, Berkeley Sockets, OpenSSL, zlib, SpiderMonkey, and W3C DOM  Xcode, Visual Studio, Eclipse, GCC, vi, Jenkins, fastlane, Git, and Subversion  Mac OS X, Microsoft Windows, and Linux Photoshop, Illustrator, and InDesign Work Experience Software Developer Fintelligence, Inc - Ann Arbor, MI 2017 to Present Developer of leading mobile app used throughout the financial industry.  Senior Software Developer    Developing apps with a custom communication layer with a rich set of internal services using notifications and a custom UI Framework. Apps include video player, event tracking and push notifications, in a mixed Manual Reference Count/ARC environment. Development efforts focused on refactoring for maintainability and adding new features. All development must adhere to a strict regulatory framework. Tech Lead/Senior Mobile Developer Ford Motor Company - Detroit, MI 2013 to 2017 Tech lead/iOS developer for Dealer SalesAssistant and iOS developer for Service MIT.  Built sales and service apps backed by multiple web services using RestKit, AFNetworking, NSURLSession, and GCD. The apps have custom video players for YouTube and Brightcove, push notifications, and event tracking. They are built on a custom plugin architecture, and many custom controls. The apps have a long history including being transitioned Manual Reference Cout to ARC and now to mixed Swift/Objective-C.  As technical lead, I worked closely with business analysts, project managers, UI/UX designers, junior developers, QA testers, and business testers to release projects on-time and on-budget. iOS developer Allied - Savoy Distribution - Farmington Hills, MI 2011 to 2013 for WANT, Sound Soother, and Catalog Click.  Senior Software Developer    Built social networking and consumer apps using Core Data (UIManagedDocument), Networking (ASIHTTPRequest, AFNetworking and NSURLConnection), Camera (UIImagePickerController and AVCaptureSession), AVPlayer, GCD, and custom views and controls. Apps were built with a range of versions from iOS 4.0 to iOS 6.0 in both ARC and Manual Reference Count runtimes. Senior Software Developer Visteon - Troy, MI 2009 to 2011 From 20010 to 2011, I worked on CaliberRM. I've ported the VSTS 2005/VSTS 2008 integration to VSTS 2010; this required changing the compiler to VS 2010, changing the framework to .NET 4.0, updating the Visual Studio integration components, migrating the install from packages to VSIX, and updating the VSTS SDK to VSTS 2010 SDK. I've enhanced Document Factory 2 to support the LIKE operator; this required learning JavaCC and JJTree, writing an expression convertor to change LIKE expression to Regular Expressions. In addition, I was the group expert on the ESX and Lab Manager servers, the StarTeam repository administrator, and the co-ordinator of the transition of development from Singapore to Troy. JScript API 2009 to 2010 I worked on DevPartner Studio. I updated the JavaScript profiler to work with IE 8; this required handling the multiple process environment that IE 8 introduced, adapting to changes in the Debugger for JScript API, and working through BEX exceptions that occurred while injecting into COM objects. I also maintained the DPRender report generation utility, helped port DevPartner Studio's VSTS integration to VSTS 2010, and worked on internationalization. Software Developer Compuware - Detroit, MI 1999 to 2009 From 2007 to 2009, I worked on DevPartner Studio. I created the DPRender report generation utility. DPRender used a standard XSL transformer with some additional custom metadata to transform DevPartner sessions into HTML reports. It's a simple single dialog UI that allowed a user to select which report, what session files, and other custom data to put into the report.  In addition, I worked on updating the JavaScript profiler to work with IE 7; this required learning the existing profiler and the Microsoft Debugger for JScript API, working with developers at Microsoft to break the dependency on MDM, and updating some of the interprocess communication code. I also maintained the Cruise Control.NET server and was the group expert on Perforce and the build system. Plus, I gave web based presentations: instructing viewers how to include code coverage tests in their existing continuous integration testing.  From 2005 to 2007, I worked on Vantage View. I prototyped a custom MVC framework in JavaScript. I implemented El Gamal encryption in C. I prototyped a window control, a dashboard control, mainframe style table controls and mainframe style textboxes in JavaScript.  From 1999 to 2005, I worked on QALoad. I helped write a web browser which has no graphical user interface. The web browser had an HTML DOM, a download engine, and a script command API. Using simple script commands, such as Navigate_To and Click_On, virtual users navigated the web like a real user in front of a GUI Web browser.  For this browser, I wrote an HTML lexer and parser using Flex and C++. I implemented a single threaded HTTP download engine that simulates the multi-threaded downloading. I created low level classes like an efficient copy-on-write string class with I18N support, a URL class, and a cookie class; these all were built to conserve memory by pooling buffers and to reduce defects when working with these error prone items. Education B.S. in Computer Science in Computer Science University of Michigan University - Ann Arbor, MI 1991 to 1996 Skills Software development, Frameworks, Graphic design, ASP, CSS, HTML 5, MYSQL, Android, Git, Javascript, PHP, Jquery Additional Information PROFESSIONAL SKILLS    Programming Languages Frameworks, SDKs, and APIs  Software Development Tools    Operating Systems  Page Layout/Graphic Design