Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer - Access, VBA, SQL Renton, WA I am seeking to work until I retire. My mind is still sharp.  I don't need a lot of money as my home is paid off and my expenses are few.   I have been a patient of Dr. Sherman for several years. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Developer Entrance Controls - Tukwila, WA December 2017 to Present SQL 2016 * Microsoft Access * VBA * Advanced Excel * Visual Studio * SSRS * ADO    PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE  ENTRANCE CONTROLS, Tukwila, WA - Software Developer 12/2017 - Present  ••Design and build an Access/SQL data collection system for field inspection to replace paper process Software Developer REALTY IN MOTION - Bellevue, WA May 2010 to December 2017 ••Manage, update, and maintain production Access systems for 500 employees daily to ensure ever- changing customer, government, and business requirements are achieved.  ••Design SQL tables, stored procedures, views, functions, and triggers using CTE's and indexes to improve processing speed.  ••Resolve website issues and tickets on C# in a timely and efficient manner.  ••Create and execute a tool that allows users to pull client system data to Excel spreadsheets, significantly saving time and improving efficiency.  ••Design and add forms and processes required for a new product line. Software Developer (Contract) SYMETRA FINANCIAL - Bellevue, WA 2009 to 2010 ••Upgraded Access database from XP to 2007.  ••Identified opportunity for improvement and implemented a solution to reduce time by 50% for a 100-day input process by automating manual Excel lookups; reduced several hours per day and significantly reduced costs.  ••Automated agent termination process, resulting in the reduction of processing and end-to-end time. Analyst (Contract) MICROSOFT - Redmond, WA 2008 to 2009 ••Analyzed and developed OEM customer reports by applying comprehensive knowledge of BI, SSRS, and Microsoft Excel.  ••Processed and validated month-end reports and Microsoft Sales Excel pivots for OEM Finance.  ••Performed Tier 2 budget and forecast user support on PerformancePoint Server (PPS), resolved users' issues in a timely manner, validated forecast and budget data, and conducted cycle set-up and dimension maintenance. Software Developer EVERGUARD INSURANCE SERVICES - Seattle, WA 2000 to 2008 ••Analyzed, developed, and supported a proprietary software application designed to deliver customer quotes more efficiently and accurately for a $15M commercial insurance services company; reduced customer quote time from three weeks to one hour.  ••Evaluated business requirements to design, develop, test, and maintain the proprietary software system to ensure communication between insurance companies and field agents.  ••Generated XML for data transfer over insurance company web services; migrated data for specific applications to SQL server; documented data mapping, views, stored procedures, and user functions.  ••Updated Access forms and reports with temporary record sources and ADO updates.    Earlier Experience:  Washington Mutual Bank, Seattle, WA - Software Developer  EverGuard Financial Services, Seattle, WA - Analyst / Software Developer (Contract) Education Bachelor of Science in Industrial Engineering Stanford University - Palo Alto, CA Skills ACCESS (10+ years), SQL (10+ years), DATABASE (1 year), BUSINESS PROCESS IMPROVEMENT (Less than 1 year), DATABASE DEVELOPMENT (Less than 1 year), Jquery, HTML, Javascript, XML, Sql Server Additional Information Areas of Expertise:  Software Development /Access, VBA, and SQL Solutions / SQL Development / Database Development / Troubleshooting / Complex Problem-Solving / Analytical Skills / End User Support / Design, Installation & Testing  / Business Process Improvement / Cross-team Collaboration