Program/Project Management Program/Project Management Program/Project Management Westerville, OH Successful and experienced Program/Project Manager, managing multiple million dollar projects within the required time and budget. With 30 years of experience in banking, technology application management, education publication, and retail manufacturing, I have a proven track record managing people, processes, systems, and functions with experience working virtually across multiple countries (England, China, India, and Philippines) and multiple states. My experience includes managing and supporting efforts such as, bank conversions, in-sourcing documents and statements, data integration (database), government and regulatory projects, application development and enhancements. A highly motivated, goal oriented, dependable leader with strong communication skills and delivery capabilities who is seeking a challenging role in your organization. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Program/Project Management MODIS - Worthington, OH 2015 to 2016 Nationwide  General Responsibilities: Transition projects from the then current in-house Project Managers as they were transitioning into other roles/responsibilities. Projects were in various phases at the time of transition. Most had started Testing, a few were in Build, and a new project was added. Responsibilities included leading current meetings and identifying additional meetings that were needed. Monitor, track and update the Project Plans. Add and track Change Controls and bring to closure. Address and bring to closure all open Action Items, Issues, and Risks. Maintain Project Budget. Developed and maintained good business relationships with the Vendor and Vendor Project Managers.     Branding:  Oversight of multiple Branding projects working with Project Managers as well as Business, Technology, and Quality Assurance teams. Responsibilities include facilitating multiple weekly status meetings for each project and a weekly Program meeting reviewing open issues, risks, action items and change requests. Maintain Program level Roadmaps and review weekly with Management providing status on progress. Review Financials/Forecasts with Project Managers.    Core Lending:  Project transitioned during Testing Phase. Responsibilities included oversight of multiple Lending systems tasks and milestones as well as change requests, issues, risks, and action items. Responsible for providing weekly project status reports and monthly financials. Supported implementation of the Core Lending systems and provided Command Center Support through the Warranty period by tracking issues and bringing issues to resolution.  • Assigned 2 additional related project efforts to manage including Business Continuity/Disaster Recovery and Automation of Electronic Processing of Payments.  Credit Cards:  Contract was extended to provide Project Management support for implementing new security features as well as updated Artwork on Credit Cards to multiple Affinities (Businesses, Groups. and Universities). Worked with internal teams such as Business, Marketing, and Product as well as external Vendors to align tasks and dates. Program and Project Management JPMorgan Chase - Columbus, OH April 1993 to March 2015 Treasury Services and Securities, Government Financial Services, Central Technology/Operations and Mortgage Banking  • General responsibilities across all projects include management and oversight of all phases of the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including Initiation, Requirements, Design, Build, Test, Implementation, and Closure. Responsible for providing weekly and requested project status reports and updates. Accountable for all project deliverables and milestones. Lead/Facilitate all Project related meetings, including requirement and design discussions, task status updates, Stakeholder meetings and Management updates. Develop and maintain Project Plans/Schedules. Responsible for Risk identification and mitigation. Financial budget tracking for project staff, equipment, Vendors, and Consultants.  • Participated with a selected group of Project Managers to establish practices, standardization, and development of project lifecycle workflows within the Project Management Organization to achieve ISO 9001 Certification.  • Selected to support the Federal Government build out of the integrated Web Portal Pay.gov to migrate Government agencies payment processing through the site. Successfully managed the projects that implemented the National Oceanic Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) and General Services Administration (GSA) agencies payment processing. Both projects were completed within 1 year.  • Managed Bank Conversion projects for Treasury Services and Government Services. Projects consolidated application systems and data from multiple Banks into the target systems and databases. Government portfolio was converted to 16 technology applications. Project was managed virtually across 4 States and the District of Columbia. Project Team had 27 participants across multiple job functions and groups including Sales, Customer Services, IRS Lockbox Processing, Technology and Finance.  • Program Manager for a program consisting of 4 separate projects. The scope was to insource, from a Third Party Vendor, all Mortgage Banking Billing statements and associated documents (Billing, Escrow, Special Loan Notices, Year-end Tax documents). Project team consisted of 130 resources across multiple states. Project completed on time which prevented any additional costs to extend the contract with the Third Party Vendor.  • Program Manager to integrate all Day 1 and Day 2 deposit processing transactions to the target Channels for reporting to Customers. Program contained 14 sub-projects and utilized over 70 resources from various states within the U.S. and included International resources from England and Hong Kong.  • Project Manager of the project to build a new strategic application and infrastructure that enabled the Business to gather customer data from multiple Channels in order to migrate customers from non-target Channels to the best target Channel(s) for a customer.  • Managed fraud prevention projects including the integration of a Vendor system to match issued check items against check images.  Application Development Manager: Treasury Services and Securities  • Managed and led the Application Development and Business Analysts teams that supported development and production for a suite of Information Reporting systems and Channels. Team supported systems and Channels across Mainframe, Mid-Range, Client-Server and Web-Based platforms.  • Team consisted of 16 resources that included 12 Employees and 4 Contractors.  • Personnel Management: Conducted weekly team meetings, monthly/quarterly meetings with individual resources, Mid-Year and Yearly reviews. Identified needs of new personnel and setup mentoring partnerships.  • Managed strategic relationships to leverage business opportunities and ensure trusted partnerships with Business and Operations teams.  • Budget planning and management of resource time for new development, system maintenance and production support.  • Annual planning of system(s) storage needs.  • Participated in contract negotiations of hardware and software with internal Sourcing and Legal teams as well as outside Third Party Providers.  Software Development Team Lead: Treasury Services and Securities  • Management of resource assignments against the planned projects and production support efforts.  • Oversight of all projects.  • Developed and deployed a User Acceptance Test process for User Testing of a new Web based Channel.  Software Developer: Treasury Services and Securities, Education Technology, Retail Deposit Products  • Software Development and Production Support for a suite of Treasury applications for Prior-Day and Current-Day transactional reporting.  • Software Development and Production Support for Time Deposit Application system.  • Systems Programmer supporting Computer Based Training system that was used throughout the Corporation. System also supported informational and help screens for users of the Credit Card system. Software Developer Highlights for Children - Columbus, OH January 1992 to March 1993 Maintained and supported the Billing and Accounting Systems. Software Developer Hanes Converting Company - Conover, NC 1987 to 1991 Maintained and supported the Inventory, Receiving, Shipping and Accounting systems.  Instructor:  • Philip Crosby Quality Education System. Software Developer Alba-Waldensian - Valdese, NC 1986 to 1987 Maintained and supported the Payroll, Accounts Payable, and Human Resource systems. Software Developer PPG Industries - Natrium, WV 1984 to 1986 Maintained and supported the Human Resource and Chemical Lab Analysis systems.  Computer Operator:  • IBM 370 / IBM 4361 Mainframe. Education Associate of Applied Science in Data Processing West Virginia Northern Community College - Wheeling, WV August 1982 to May 1984 Skills Microsoft Project, Office (10+ years), Microsoft Visio (10+ years), Clarity (5 years), Estimating, Scheduling, budget, Microsoft Project, Word Certifications/Licenses Advanced Certificate in Project Management March 2004 to Present Training and certification through the University of Colorado / Systemation. (3/15/2004) Additional Information PROFESSIONAL ROLES  • Program Manager   • Project Manager  • Application Development Manager   • Software Development Team Lead  • Software Developer     PROFESSIONAL HIGHLIGHTS:  • Senior Level Project Manager – 15+ years of Enterprise experience, Waterfall (15+ years), Hybrid: Waterfall/Agile-Iterative (3+ years)  • Largest Project Size: 30,000 hours / 130 Resources / $10MM  • Experience in Application and Infrastructure projects  • Federal Government Projects: Pay.Gov (NOAA, GSA)  • State of Ohio support: Provide Intra-Day, Prior Day Reporting for Child Support Services  • Experience with On-Shore and Offshore Resources  • Experience with Disaster Recovery   • Financial (Banking) Mergers and Acquisitions, Conversions (Project Manager, Application Development Manager, Developer) – 22 years  • Project Management experience with multiple software development teams (Batch, On-Line, Digital)   • Hardware (Mainframe, Mid-Range, VoIP, VRU, Server)  • Software Development:  o CICS, COBOL, XBOL, HOGAN, RPG, PL1  o JCL, MVS, OS, VSAM, TSO