IT Manager/Lead Software Developer (Current) IT Manager/Lead <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> (Current) IT Manager/Lead Software Developer (Current) - ProScript Documentation Services, Inc Trinity, FL Solutions oriented IT Manager with over 20 years of progressive roles within information technology and the healthcare industry. Overall professional experience includes over 11 years of software development, IT project leadership and customer relations. Work Experience IT Manager/Lead Software Developer (Current) ProScript Documentation Services, Inc - Clearwater, FL 2012 to Present Solutions oriented IT Manager with over 20 years of progressive roles within information technology and the healthcare industry. Overall professional experience includes over 11 years of software development, IT project leadership and customer relations. Developer ProScript Documentation Services, Inc 2012 to 2014 Manage technology development and initial implementation for ProScript, a specialized, technology-driven provider of innovative medical transcription solutions to healthcare networks, hospitals, clinics, and specialty groups nationwide.  Lead custom development projects at all stages, from initial client sale through proof-of-concept, project scoping, planning, development, testing, and implementation. Responsibilities include hardware procurement, database management, security and support in a 24-7 environment in support of hospital clients.    • Manage a team of software developers using Agile method.  • Represent ProScript as a subject matter expert for major clients, investors, and partners.  • Extensive hands-on involvement in all projects to include product development, debugging and troubleshooting.  • Implemented database backup and recovery infrastructure in an offsite data center.  • Specifications, negotiations, and project management for outsourced projects  • Work closely at sales stage with ProScript executive and sales team, providing sales-related input on technology capabilities. Work with clients to determine technology needs and identify new feature requirements. Attend all sales meetings and sales calls.  • Coordinate with Operations group to analyze and resolve issues arising in day-to-day use of systems.  • Manage all hardware, including over 100 Windows and CentOS servers.  • Manage internal SQL databases to include experience in performance tuning and troubleshooting  • Developed software and hardware for IT products and internal systems for medical transcription operations utilizing C# and .NET framework.  • Completed design and configuration of Dictation Capture Unit using C#, .NET, WinForms and Microsoft SQL.  • Manage internal help desk support for network of contractors and medical transcriptionists.  • Supervise Hardware installation and client platform for tele-dictation of reports by physicians, and management of the audio files in the process of transcription by ProScript. Proprietary system reduced large expenses for third party licensing.  • Implemented high-density FXS gateways to convert digital VoIP to analog for handling by ProScript Dictation Capture software. Delivered functionality previously unavailable on VoIP, including call differentiation and reliable touch tone recognition. Scaled up PoC to working system. Software Developer QUICK ELECTRONICS INC - Largo, FL 1998 to 2012 Various technical and customer-service roles ( software and hardware) in company, including networks, software development, field service, and technical support. Quick Electronics provides consulting services to local businesses, specializing in dental and medical practices and imaging centers. Constant interaction with owners, managers, salespeople, and clients on technical and client matters.  Custom application programming and implementation primarily in C++, to meet client requirements and support internal MIS/IT objectives.    Projects included:  • Developed patient-notification application integrating Kodak practice-management software written in C++.  • Initiated and developed customizable off-site data backup solution written in C# to meet client needs for data protection. This technology generated a distinct new revenue stream during last recession.  • Created applications for internal use in C++ using MFC to track customized client hardware configurations, installation data, and status of components being serviced. These systems supported technical service, proactive sales, and warranty service, improving service delivery and reducing service costs.  • Establish network infrastructure for new clients. Experienced with vLAN, spanning tree protocol, VPN, Cisco firewalls, Cisco Catalyst networking hardware and routers.  • Coordinated and performed post-sales customer service and system upgrades.  • Comprehensive technical support to clients to include Field service and remote support. Education B.S. in Mathematics University of Tampa Skills .net, Visual studio, Api, C#, C++, Git, Json, Wcf, Object oriented, Object oriented programming, Pascal, Perl, Software development, Svn, Xamarin, Active directory, Cisco, Devops, Dns, Domain name system, MYSQL Additional Information Core Competencies  • Program and project management utilizing DevOps practices  • Lead, mentor, and retain successful technology talent and teams while remaining hands on through the SDLC  • Software development, troubleshooting, processes, development, implementation, and administration while utilizing C# and .NET framework  • Design, install and perform ongoing maintenance and create documentation for database environments  • Highly skilled with Microsoft SQL - queries, development, design, views, schemas and indexing  • Strong understanding of Object Oriented Programming Principles  • Technical experience with LINQ, . NET asynchronous programming and JSON  • Experience working within Agile environment.  • Over 20 years experience with maintaining Windows servers, Desktop operating systems, Networking, Storage Virtualization, Security and Telephony.    TECHNICAL PROFICIENCIES  Languages: C#, C++, Pascal, Perl  API/SDK: .NET Framework, WPF, WCF, Xamarin, ADO  Tools: Visual Studio, SVN, Source Safe, Telerik, Git, Lustre, Grid Engine  Hardware: IBM PCs and peripherals, Notebook Repair, Tape Backups, Network Hardware (Hubs, Switches, Routers, VPN Hardware - Cisco/SonicWall) Cabling, eMerge Browser-Based Access Control Hardware  Databases and Servers: Microsoft (MS) SQL Server, Microsoft Access, Microsoft Office 365, MySQL, Hyper-V (virtualization), Domain Name System (DNS), Active Directory.  Platforms: Windows, Linux