Software Architect/Technical Fellow <span class="hl">Software</span> Architect/Technical Fellow Software Architect Doylestown, PA An accomplished engineer, architect, and security proponent with extensive full life cycle software development experience. Seeking a position that calls for a mix of hard technical capability, strong people skills, and leadership ability with potential for long-term growth within the organization. Special interest in cloud, IoT, and security opportunities. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Architect/Technical Fellow PTC - Boston, MA July 2009 to October 2018 PTC is a $8B software development company specializing in Internet of Things (IoT) and digital transformation solutions that enable manufacturers to more efficiently design, produce, and service their products.    Technical lead for PTC’s Enterprise Application Security Team. Team is responsible for reducing security risk of PTC’s product portfolio as well as delivering unified identity access management (IAM) architecture cross-product. Technical subject matter expert for all PTC application security issues arising from internal development activities and external customer escalations.    Member of PTC’s Technology Council. Technology Council is comprised of technical leaders spanning the organization who report into the office of the CTO. Council is tasked with providing innovative technology that feeds back into corporate strategy through white papers and presentations.    Lead architect for PTC’s Windchill Product Analytics (WPA) development team. WPA is a suite of web applications that help customers manage supply chain regulatory compliance. WPA integrates closely with PTC’s Windchill Product Lifecycle Management (PLM) software. Project operated using Agile/Scrum methodology.    Responsibilities:  · Gathering requirements from product stakeholders and developing implementation roadmaps.  · Conducting proof-of-concept engineering and authoring white papers.  · Defining development best practices and leading cross-team code reviews.  · Building and mentoring global development teams.  · Combining strategic thinking with delivery on tactical initiatives.  · Developing core product infrastructure and APIs.  · Evaluating, integrating, and extending open source frameworks and commercial packages.    Accomplishments:  · Built a newly formed Enterprise Application Security team from the ground up into a highly respected internal security practice.  · Performed security assessments and threat modeling on multiple product initiatives including PTC’s ThingWorx IoT platform.  · Delivered an identity access management (IAM), single-sign-on (SSO), and delegated authorization framework. Fostered its adoption across PTC’s product portfolio including PTC’s ThingWorx IoT platform.  · Successfully led PTC’s WPA product re-architecture from inception through dozens of production installations.  · Presented at PTC’s LiveWorx global conference in Boston, MA (2018).    Software Architect UnitedHealth Group, Ovations Division - Fort Washington, PA August 2007 to June 2009 Member of Ovations Java EE architecture team. Ovations insurance applications service more than 5 million members by providing enrollment, eligibility, prescription drug plan assignment, billing, and payment processing.     Accomplishments:  · Lead on overall initiative to migrate the core Ovations J2EE framework (Struts/EJB) to a new technology stack based on Spring.  · Lead on project to migrate a legacy Struts J2EE web application to Spring. Worked alongside the application team, onshore, and offshore resources to meet a commitment to re-architect the application for resale outside Ovations on a predetermined timetable.  · Designed and implemented a security framework based on Spring Security that handles authorization within Ovations applications. Solution eliminated use of IBM’s Tivoli Access Manager (TAM) providing substantial cost savings to the organization. Software Developer/Architect Merck & Co (Contract placement by Aetea Information Technology) - West Point, PA November 2004 to July 2007 Developer and architect on multiple web application projects for Merck’s USHH and MVD divisions. Provided guidance to management on technical direction and resource planning. In addition to hands-on design and development, mentored client’s fulltime staff on industry best practices. Projects included: A budgeting application that allocates multi-million dollar sales and marketing budgets to entire US field sales force. A suite of reporting applications that provides sales and marketing data to Merck’s vaccine division. Software Developer/Architect Bank of America - Horsham, PA September 2002 to August 2004 Lead developer on project to deliver and support Fleet’s Card Member Access (CMA) B2C web application (mycard.fleet.com). CMA services 3.2 million+ credit card customers on a 24x7 basis and provides online functionality to check balances, view statements, pay bills, and execute balance transfers. Provided strategic technical direction and system architecture for individual initiatives. Coordinated collaboration with external programming teams to deliver software on time and within budget. Served as internet security subject matter expert within Fleet Credit Card Services’ eBusiness group. Software Developer/Architect Key2Web, LLC - Newtown, PA May 2001 to September 2002 Architect on internal project to develop Key2Web’s Paradigm Platform framework. Paradigm is a service-oriented architecture for solving industry-wide problems such as integrating legacy systems and creating real-time awareness to business critical events. Acted as organization’s subject matter expert with respect to constructing total e-commerce solutions. Evaluated emerging technologies, solutions, and methodologies. Software Developer Visa International (Contract placement by E-Guardian Technology Group) - San Mateo, CA June 2000 to April 2001 Principal developer on project to deliver a B2B web application that collects, processes, and reports mission-critical financial data for Visa International. Application collects sales data from 10,000 member institutions totaling more than $100 billion annually and calculates fees exceeding $500 million in annual revenue for Visa. Software Developer Tallan, Inc - Irvine, CA May 1999 to June 2000 Developer on project to deliver an international B2B web application for Ingram Micro Inc., a global wholesaler of technology products and supply chain services. Implemented a product search engine (catalog 180,000+ items) responsible for 120,000+ daily online searches. Education Master of Science in Computer Science Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute - Troy, NY Master of Science in Mechanical Engineering The Pennsylvania State University - University Park, PA Bachelor of Science in Mechanical Engineering Cornell University - Ithaca, NY Skills Application Security (10+ years), Application Development (10+ years), Java (10+ years), Web Development (10+ years), Web Services (10+ years), Identity Access Management (5 years), Agile/Scrum (10+ years), REST (10+ years)