Developer <span class="hl">Developer</span> Chattanooga, TN Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Developer Tennessee Valley Authority - Chattanooga, TN December 2016 to February 2019 • Enhance and support applications as part of the External Relations team.  • Worked on the Customer Energy And Demand Data application. Angular 6, c# back end, used by customers to monitor their power consumption. The admin portal is straight ASP.net MVC, both apps share a SQL database.  • The Strategic Dashboard - an attempt to centralize as much data as possible for use by the business in decision making. There is an angular/C# app, but most the work was SQL and C# ETLs  • Some report work for both applications. Developer CoStar - Atlanta, GA August 2015 to August 2016 Responsible for development of the the CoStar Real Estate Manager application. Member of Team BrainTrust, later switched to Team Wildlings.    • Brain Trust was primarily tasked with work on the The ETL (Extract, Transform, Load) module. The web app portion was ASP.net/VB.net. The service layer is C#/WPF.  • Work in MetaMan, the Costar ORM layer. Entity Framework, WCF, C#.  • on Wildlings, primarily worked in the Accounting Module. This brand new feature will allow clients to manage leases and portfolios based on a new, international, set of standards released in 2016. The module is Angular.js on the front end, VB.net on the back end, and the service that performs financial calculations is written in C#. Software Developer VersionOne - Atlanta, GA May 2014 to March 2015 As a member of team Heisbenberg, work included both client side (javascript) and back end (C#) development with the former representing a slight majority of my development time.    • Custom field editing/ordering - improved the admin UI for managing custom fields in the VersionOne application, including adding the ability to order fields.  • Sticky Headers - added sticky headers to several different types of grids in the application. This was a major quality of life improvement.  • Overhaul of authentication process for third party applications using VersionOne APIs, leveraging Oauth 2.0 and making it much more developer friendly.  • Community of Practice - social media like features added intro VersionOne application Software Developer Dialog Medical - Atlanta, GA April 2010 to May 2014 • iMed4Web, the company's primary web application: ajax with Dojo + javascript on the front end, C# on the server.  • Windows services that supported applications in the field, like the DocumentService and the DocumentPrepService, the primary function of which is to get patient documents back into client EMR systems.  • Database work with a little bit of reporting.  • Various individual tools and utilities that handled a wide range of tasks from specific patch needs to facilitating our support staff.  • Development and maintenance of VB6 desktop application, a legacy product used by the biggest client. Systems Analyst II RC Cancer Centers - Atlanta, GA June 2006 to January 2010 • Helped develop the Patient Portal, an ASP.net/C# internet web application patients could access to download forms for office visits and fill out basic demographic data.  • Worked extensively on the Prostate Research Data Entry Application, fixing bugs, adding new business rules and functionality. Used JQuery to implement dynamically changing forms based on user input.  • Worked on the Voyager patient management system and created web front end for Reporting Services reports.  • Wrote many reports in Crystal Reports and Reporting Services. Software Developer Imedia Group - Macon, GA October 2004 to May 2006 • Worked on ASP.Net/C# web applications for various company magazines that included forms for article submission/picture upload.  • Developed HTML email templates for mass-mailings for customers via internal web app.  • Managed company computer hardware. Education Bachelor's in Information Technology Macon State - Macon, GA January 2001 to January 2005 Bachelor's in Economics University of Georgia - Athens, GA July 1995 to 2000 Skills HTML, Javascript, jQuery, XML Assessments Critical Thinking — Expert August 2019 Using logic to solve problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/i3jf1dtsl-94bfuk Problem Solving — Expert August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to analyze relevant information when solving problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/u26tvjs-8tdigzg2 Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.