Developer <span class="hl">Developer</span> Developer * Having 3.2 years of experience as a Java Developer in the Development of Web applications  Using Java, J2EE  * Hands on experience to Implemented using Micro Services and RestServices integrated Spring-Boot with JPA.  * Hands on experience writing services using Http Module in React JS  * Hands on experience on Restful Web Services, Spring Boot.  * Strong experience in working with Spring (IOC, MVC).  * Hands on experience Spring Framework, Hibernate and Servlets.  * Having hands on experience in Building tool Gradle, Maven.  * Experience in using GIT for code repository and as version control mechanism.  * Having good experience in unit testing by using JUNIT.  * Experience in using LOG4J for logging and debugging.  * Good Knowledge on database MySQL.  * Experience in understanding of Software Development Life Cycle and SCRUM  methodologies. Work Experience Developer Discover Financial - Greenwood, DE 2000 to 2012 Environment: Java, Micro Services, Spring boot, Gradle, Eclipse(STS), PCF,  Jenkins, Swagger, SonarQube, React JS, Rally.  Team size: 25.  Project Description:  Discover is a credit card brand issued primarily in the United States. It was introduced by Sears in 1985. Discover is the fourth largest credit card brand in the U.S., behind Visa, Master Card and  American Express, with nearly 44 million cardholders.  The Greenwood Trust Company was founded in 1911 and is based in Greenwood, Delaware. It was acquired by Discover Financial Services in 1985 and renamed Discover Bank in 2000.[12] The first and original location of Greenwood Trust Co. on East Market Street is now the town hall and police station. Discover built a new building on middle of US 13 north and South bound lanes and remains the only banking location of Discover Bank.[1  Role and Responsibilities:  * Configured Eureka server.  * Written MicroServices using Spring Rest  * Configured Cloud-Config- Server.  * Used ouath2, authorization server along with jwt token generator for security,  acting as sso server works based on access token.  * Implementing functionalities using design pattern oriented architecture includes Controller, Service and DAO layers.  * Used Gradle for project management structure  * Developed Modules, Components in React JS.  * Written services using Http Module and injected them to necessary Components in React JS  * Implemented cascading dropdown.  * Implemented Multi dropdown.  * Implemented functionalitys FileGeneration and Mailing.  * Done Reactive-Form validations in React  Title: Alexion Pharmacutical prvt.ltd.  Client: Leonard Bell, US.  Role: Developer.  Responsibility: Coding and Development.  Environment: Java, Spring, Hibernate, Maven, Eclipse, LOG4J,  MySQL, Tomcat.  Tools: GIT, Log4J and Jira.  Team Size: 06.  Project Description:  Alexion Pharmaceuticals Inc. is an American pharmaceutical company best known for its development of Soliris, a drug used to treat the rare disorders atypical hemolytic uremic syndrome and paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria. The company is also involved in immune system research related to autoimmune diseases.  Main objective of this project is to design a software application for Medicine manufacturing company who produces different type of medicine products. This application having different modules like Products Module, Distributer Module, Cutomer Module, Reports Module, Shops Module and Admin Module.  Role and Responsibilities:  * Implementing functionalities using design pattern oriented architecture includes Controller, Service and DAO layers.  * Implemented functionalities like CRUD operations.  * Implementing Server side validations.  * Coding and debugging by using debugging tool and Log4j.  * Maven used for Project Management Structure.  * Used GIT for code repository and as version control mechanism.  * Object Creation and injection was done using Spring IOC mechanisms.  * Performed Debugging and testing using Test cases.  * Attending the Scrum meeting Software Engineer Capgemini Technology Services India Limited Technical Skills:  Programming Languages: JAVA  Frame Works: Spring, Spring-boot, Microservices, Hibernate(ORM)  WebServices: Restful web services  Web Technologies: React JS  Web Servers: Tomcat  Project Management Tools: Rally.  Build Tool: Gradle.  Debugging Tool: Log4j.  Continuous Integration Tool: Jenkins  Databases: MySQL  IDES: Eclipse(STS) Education B.Tech JNTU - Kakinada, ANDHRA PRADESH, IN Additional Information Operating Systems: Windows