Senior Software Engineer Senior <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Senior Software Engineer Belford, NJ Work Experience Senior Software Engineer AT&T - Middletown, NJ August 2011 to July 2019 • Working for AT&T Cloud Services department.  • Developed and Maintained the Cloud Services Portal. Technologies used for the portal consisted of HTML/CSS jQuery, jQuery Mobile.  • Introduced third-party plugins like slickgrid datagrid component, d3/c3 graphing to the Cloud Services Portal.  • Worked on the FirstNet websites using Angular 2+, Angular Material and AgGrid.  - Responsible for taking wireframes/mock-ups and developed the angular components needed to design the UI.  - The angular components made use of interpolation, component to component communication, angular services RxJS for http calls to backend databases.  - Incorporated angular material components for the UI widgets. Also used AgGrid plugin to display tabular data with features like column sorting/filtering, row selection with click event processing.  • Created responsive website prototypes using Bootstrap/Flask for user acceptance based on user requirements.  • Modified web pages to be 508 compliant. Software Developer United Nations - New York, NY September 2010 to August 2011 Consulting company: Domanitech)  • Working as a contractor for the United Nations Joint Staff Pension Fund department.  • Designed the Client Services Tracking Lotus Notes application which is used for customer pension requests and service time analytics.  • Reporting created using the IntelliPrint Reporter and Dashboard product.  • Developed and enhanced the Procurement System which was developed using LotusScript. Software Developer DOD - FT. Monmouth - Tinton Falls, NJ May 2007 to September 2010 Consulting company: Data Systems Analysts)  (Domino Web Development R6/R7, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, Web Services, AJAX, XML)  • Working as a contractor for the Department of Defense based out of Fort Monmouth, New Jersey. All Domino applications developed using HTML/JavaScript, Ajax, XML and CSS.  • Created many Web applications consisting of Event Registration, Class Training Sites, Change Configuration Board workflow and voting sites.  • Developed a document based Content Management System. Allowing the end user to have control of website content editing including graphics while CSS/Style was controlled by the developer. Project Leader REVLON - Piscataway, NJ December 2000 to May 2007 Lotus Notes Client, LotusScript and Formula Language, ASP.net, VB.net)  • Experience in leading the architecture and development of Enterprise Level Applications in ASP.NET, VB.NET, ADO.NET and Crystal Report.  • Led a small team of developers in creating the company's Factory Transfer Ticket system. Utilizing web based technologies like JavaScript, HTML and bringing in new barcode scanner hardware integration.  • I have participated in all phases of the Software development life cycle, from Concept Proposal and Project Planning through System Requirement/Design and Testing Scripts.  • Mentored a programmer analyst in Lotus Notes Application Development while creating a workflow approval process application used for Change Control Process, Request for Service, User Acceptance, SDLC. This application had approval, rejection capabilities along with email notifications and a full audit trail of the review process.  • Developed and integrated MS Excel to a Lotus Notes application which maps CSV data to a spreadsheet template and sends mass mailing.  • Developed a milestone timeline Notes application used for tracking New Product Development. This application would determine the target dates for all the different milestones needed to bring a new product to market. Education Bachelors of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science William Paterson University - Wayne, NJ Learning Tree Information Technology Skills Html, Javascript, Bootstrap, Typescript, Vs code, Python, Flask, Vb.net, Asp, Css, Asp.net, jquery, Domino, Lotus notes Additional Information SKILL SET:  The key strengths that I possess include, but are not limited to the following:  • Angular, TypeScript  • jQuery, JavaScript  • Bootstrap, HTML, CSS  • Python, Flask    • Domino Web R8/R7/R6  • Lotus Notes Client  • Lotus Script, Formula Language    • VS Code  • ASP.net, VB.net