Software Engineer III <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer III Senior Software Engineer Tarpon Springs, FL I'm very passionate software engineer. I'm always ready for new challenges, willing to work hard, learn and improve my skills. I've been mostly a full-stack web developer, coming out from the desktop to the web technologies. So far, the language that I have worked the most with is PHP.  Great software is like relationships with other human beings, both must be strong enough to withstand time and the changes of the future. Sharing knowledge makes you bigger, accepting other's knowledge makes you smarter.  Proficient in:    ? Software Engineering Software Development Web Development  ? Object-Oriented Programming techniques (OOP)  ? SOLID Principles  ? PHP MVC Frameworks (Yii1 and Yii2, Laravel, Symfony 1.4, Codeigniter)  ? AWS (APi Gateways, Lambdas, Cognito, RDS, S3, DynamoDB, SQS, ELB, Kubernetes)  ? Vue.js, Vuex  ? Javascript (ES6)  ? E-Commerce (Magento, Joomla)  ? Vagrant / Docker  ? MySQL / Postgres / SQL Server  ? Git, Gitlab  ? SCRUM  ? JIRA, Bitbucket  ? jQuery Work Experience Software Engineer III Knowbe4 - Clearwater, FL June 2018 to Present Being part of the development team in charge of maintaining and expansion of the GRC platform, one of SASS products commercialized by the company. Where PHP and AWS work together complementing Vue.js in the frontend. Software Developer VocabularySpellingCity May 2017 to March 2018 I have had the honor of being part of an amazing team, the most humble people and the smartest ones. The development stack is basically PHP through a custom framework as well as Laravel framework for new developments. Mysql for databases. The UI has pieces built in Ember.js, Backbone.js and Vue.js. Jenkins as continuous integration server. AWS is where the auto scalability take place as well as the storage among others.    The development process relies on a SCRUM agile environment. JIRA as a tool to manage the tasks and to provide updates to Management. Bitbucket as the control repository solution. Most of the PHP and JS code are tested through PHPUnit and Jasmine respectively. Worthy to mention that exists a QA team who makes the development team looks better. Software Developer International Vapor Group August 2016 to May 2017 Being part of a development team who uses SCRUM as methodology, JIRA Software and Bitbucket platform to manage, organize and collaborate during the development process.  Scaling Magento capabilities through new modules development, third party integrations and whatever it takes to make the platform capable of dealing with all its ecommerce features as well as a bunch of extra features that are not supported by Magento out of the box. Full Stack Developer Forest Travel November 2015 to August 2016 Working as part of a development team who provides software solutions to support all processes within the company. These processes include human resource management, customer relationship management (CRM), marketing tools, and maintenance to all existing web applications. All of them are developed over a LEMP (Linux, Nginx, MariaDB/MySQL, PHP) environment, Laravel as PHP framework. Creating and supporting third party integrations through APIs, Web Services and also processing static XML files coming from some FTP server. Version control with GIT using git flow. Frontend development implemented with bootstrap, HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, Ajax and Angular in some cases. Software Developer Global Knowledge Link January 2015 to November 2015 Part of a development team in charge of creating software solutions to fulfill clients requirements. Important amount of database work related to providing solutions in real time for clients that use the services provided by the company. Developing new platform features as well as enhancements using Coldfusion and MSSQL Server (2005-2008) mostly. Independent Developer- WEB DEVELOPER / PHP Programmer February 2013 to January 2015 Building Applications from scratch with PHP frameworks such as Yii, Codeigniter and Laravel as well.  ? Software Development Life Cycle.  ? Planning  ? Analysis & Design  ? Deployment  ? Testing    ? MySQL as database engine.  ? Customizing WordPress websites. Updating Wordpress themes/templates in order to fit customers requirements.  ? jQuery, HTML5 and CSS3.  ? Mockups Software Developer Datazucar - Havana, CU October 2011 to February 2013 Member of a software development team belonging to sugar industry sector in Cuba. We were in charge to create enterprise software solutions to support processes within the industry. We used to do it agile with Scrum methodology, and a variety of technologies such as PHP, Flex, MySql. Also, one of the most interesting projects was to migrate an existing enterprise software built over Delphi & MSSQL Server to PHP & MYSQL. GECYT June 2011 to August 2011 Full Software Development Life Cycle using RUP.  ? Developed web application solution based on Symfony 1.4 Framework with Doctrine as ORM. Web developer / IT GECYT - Havana, CU February 2009 to July 2011 A company dedicated to providing web application solutions helping management to make decisions, be able to measure company progress as well as employee performance. All those tools and applications were developed over PHP with frameworks such as Symfony, Codeigniter. Education Bachelor's Skills Linux