Senior Software Developer & Team Lead Senior <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> &amp; Team Lead Software Developer Ellicott City, MD • 10+ years’ experience with enterprise software development and support.  • 10 years of experience in enterprise application and web services development C#, Java, C/C++, ASP.NET, WPF, OOP and SQL Server/Oracle Database.  • Experienced in analysis and programming on large scale, multi-component complex systems.  • Responsible for both of the front-end (UI) and the back-end development.  • Experienced with SQL Server and Oracle databases, including SSRS, SSIS.  • Experienced in the agile SCRUM project management environment.  • Independent worker with excellent communication skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Software Developer & Team Lead Deloitte - Mechanicsburg, PA November 2017 to Present Worked as a senior developer and a technical lead, primary focusing on designing and implementing Windows WPF and Prism based new ePACSES application, as well as providing customer support to the application users. Demonstrated strong technical skills and knowledge in the development of supporting  Pennsylvania Child Support Program.    ?     Led a development team working on the application’s core modules.  ?     Mentored the team members on coding and trouble shooting.  ?     Designed the architecture of the Case Management module, which is the core module of the application.  ?     Implemented most of the components in Case Management.  ?     Supported INT, UAT and SAT testing.        Related Skills:                                                                                        ? WPF / .NET / C#  ? WPF Prism, MVVM  ? Oracle Database 11g/12c Senior Software Developer FIS Global - Columbia, MD March 2017 to June 2017 Worked as a senior software consultant developing their consumer loan origination and portfolio management software.  ?     JEE/J2EE web service components enhancement.  ?     C/C++ components enhancement and trouble shooting.   ?     Wrote complex XSLT style sheet to transform XML files from a third-party format to FIS database schema.     Related Skills:                                                                                        ? JEE/ J2EE, C/C++  ? Linux, Windows  ? Oracle Database 11g/12c    Senior Software Developer UPS (United Parcel Service) - Timonium, MD April 2016 to December 2016 Worked as a senior software developer writing the package shipping time estimate and optimization applications.  ?     Developed a Monthly Process asp.net application, preparing and providing large datasets in databases and maps to various users and customers for shipping time estimate and calculation.  ?     Developed a web application to generate transit time datasets and maps for UPS.com.   ?     Developed a web application for package delivery estimation and optimization, working on the front-end UI, back-end web services and COM/DCOM components using C/C++.  ?     Created SQL scripts and stored procedures for the applications.  ?     Deployed and configured the components and application in Windows Server 2012 environment.     Related Skills:                                                                                        ? ASP.NET 3.5/4.0, C#, WCF, Entity Framework, LINQ, TFS  ? Com/DCom, C/C++, JQuery, JSON  ? Oracle Database 11g/12c, SQL Server 2012    Senior Software Engineer Livanta LLC - Savage, MD November 2014 to January 2016 Worked as a senior software engineer developing applications for company’s Medicare QIO (Quality Improvement) program.  ?     Developed a Provider Monthly Reimbursement Management web application from scratch, designed and implemented UI and back-end components.  ?     Developed a software tool to generate pay check data for ADP system using WPF/DevExpress.  ?     Designed and developed PAM, an application manages the new physician acknowledgement in each hospital using C# and .Net with Amazon Web Services. Worked on both of the front-end (UI) and the back-end.   ?     Developed another WPF application for package tracking and mail item management in mailroom from scratch, Mailroom Compass. Designed and implemented both of the front-end (UI) and the back-end. Generated and printed a cover page for each item with bar code.  ?     Created SQL scripts and stored procedures for the applications.  ?     Managed and configured the web applications on Windows Server 2012.     Related Skills:                                                                                        ? ASP.NET 3.5/4.0, C#, MVC, WCF, WPF, Entity Framework, JQuery, JSON, HTML, Java Script  ? Amazon Web Services, DevExpress  ? TFS, SQL Server 2012 Software Developer USAC (The Universal Service Administrative Company) - Washington, DC November 2013 to November 2014 Worked on the web-based applications, E-Rate, which manages the Universal Service Fund for the Schools and Libraries Program.  ?     Worked in an Agile SCRUM Environment.  ?     Responsible for support of the web-based E-Rate application through development, implementation and deployment.  ?     Worked on both of the front-end (UI) and the back-end implementation.  ?     Handle complex application features and technical design.  ?     Coordinate with departments and users in the support of business applications.  ?     Troubleshooting application and database issues, providing technical support to users.  ?     Adjusted the HTML in the legacy web pages, made them mobile-friendly.  ?     Created SQL scripts and stored procedures for the applications.  Related Skills:                                                                                        ? ASP.NET 3.5/4.0, C# / VB.NET, MVC, Entity Framework, AngularJS, JQuery, HTML 5, Java Script  ? J2EE, SOA, WCF/Web Services, TFS  ? Oracle 10g Database.  ? JIRA, Git. Software Developer The Public Defender Service for the District of Columbia - Washington, DC October 2012 to July 2013 Worked on PDS’s web-based applications, web sites and database development projects.  ?     Collected the requirements from the client, designed, implemented and maintained web-based applications, web services, web sites and database.  ?     Designed and implemented SSRS reports for the management team using Microsoft SQL Server Reporting Services.  ?     Provided support to end users and maintained the legacy applications and web sites.  ?     Troubleshooting application and database issues, providing technical support to end users.     Related Skills:   ?     ASP.NET 3.5/4.0, VB.NET, WCF, web services.  ?     SharePoint 2010 Server, SharePoint client object model and SharePoint Web Services.  ?     MS SQL Server 2008 R2, Reporting Services (SSRS). Software Developer UnlimitedViz Inc - Kitchener, ON November 2011 to February 2012 Worked on client site, developing and maintaining the reporting applications and the SQL Server database.  ? Developed and maintained the reports in client's CRM system, using SQL Server 2005 SSRS.  ? Maintained the Oracle database which is associated with client's SAP application.  ? Designed and developed integration packages using SQL Server 2005 SSIS.  ? Worked as DBA, running routine database maintenance jobs and keeping the SQL database in shape.  Related Skills:  ? MS SQL Server 2005, Reporting Services and Integration Services. Senior Application Developer Linamar Corporation - Guelph, ON February 2011 to September 2011 Worked in Linamar's IT application development team, dealing with the development of their internal web based .NET applications and SharePoint web sites.  ? Participated in the development of STAR, the employee evaluation application. (C# & ASP.NET, SQL Server 2008, TFS)  ? Designed and developed the dashboard reports for human resource. (SQL Server 2008 Reporting Services and PerformancePoint)  ? Designed and constructed the analysis cube for the human resource reports.(SQL Server 2008 Analysis Services)  ? Migrated the old data source and the current one, using SQL Server 2008 SSIS.  ? Maintained and managed Linamar.com SharePoint site. (SharePoint)  Related Skills:  ? C#, ASP.NET 3.5/4.0, AJAX, LINQ.  ? Microsoft Visual Studio 2008/2010, Microsoft Team Foundation Server 2008/2010.  ? SharePoint, PerformancePoint.  ? MS SQL Server 2005/2008, Analyses Services, Reporting Services and Integration Services. Senior Software Developer TSavo Media - Guelph, ON September 2010 to January 2011 Worked on Tsavo's core technology platforms and the web-based GUI administration tool.  ? Coding and trouble shooting of WebFx Core and WebFx Admin (C# & ASP.NET, SQL Server 2008, TFS)  ? Playing as a project admin role migrated WebFx Core from TFS 2008 to TFS 2010 and .NET 4.0.  Related Skills:  ? C#, ASP.NET 3.5/4.0, AJAX, LINQ, Telerik, XML/XSLT.  ? Microsoft Visual Studio 2008/2010, Microsoft Team Foundation Server 2008/2010.  ? OOA/OOD/OOP.  ? MS SQL Server 2005/2008. Software Developer Marlborough Sterling Canada - Toronto, ON June 2010 to July 2010 Worked on the new release of their web-based mortgage application, Omega which includes underwriting, risk assessment, offer production and funds disbursement.  ? Coding and trouble shooting of this financial application (C# & ASP.NET, SQL Server 2008, TFS)  ? Designed and implemented new components for the mortgage application.  ? Wrote complex stored procedures on SQL Server 2008.  ? Provided application supporting and trouble shooting.  Related Skills:  ? C#, ASP.NET, AJAX, Web Services, XML.  ? Microsoft Visual Studio 2008, Microsoft Team Foundation Server.  ? OOA/OOD/OOP.  ? MS SQL Server 2008. Senior Software Developer Research In Motion (RIM) - Waterloo, ON July 2008 to June 2009 Developed MCAT framework, which provides a cross system platform and functionalities to access Blackberry Handheld, Blackberry Enterprise Server and related mail stores, such as Microsoft Exchange, Lotus Notes and Novell GroupWise.  ? Designed, implemented and successfully delivered MCAT Exchange Server Communication Web Service components. (C# & ASP.NET)  ? Enhanced and debugged MCAT Novell GroupWise Communication Web Service and Blackberry Handheld Web Service.  ? Designed XML schema for data objects and messages exchanged among web services.  ? Developed the test case library in Java, providing functionalities to Blackberry automated test cases accessing Blackberry Handheld, Blackberry Enterprise Server (BES) and the mail store Web Services.  ? Provided application support to the end users and the QA team.  Related Skills:  ? C#, ASP.NET, AJAX, Web Services, XML, WCF.  ? Java, Eclipse, JDE.  ? Microsoft Visual Studio 2005.  ? OOA/OOD/OOP.  ? MS SQL Server 2005.  ? Apache Axis & Axis2, CXF. Software Developer The Descartes Systems Group Inc - Waterloo, ON November 2007 to July 2008 Worked in the development team, responsible for the new project of Broker Management and the monthly releases of Online Billing application.  ? Enhanced Descartes' billing system to manage the billing cycles, improved both the front end UI and the server side billing engine for the web application and web services, successfully delivered the monthly release. (C# & ASP.NET)  ? Migrated the billing system from ASP.NET 1.1 to ASP.NET 2.0, also worked with the database development team to migrate the database from SQL Server 2000 to SQL Server to 2005.  ? Participated in the ViaTrade project, which is a complete EDI and Web solution that enables the electronic exchange of shipment information between carrier, customs broker, and customs authority; analyzed complex business/technical problems, made sound technical decisions, designed, constructed, debugged the application.  ? Worked on the auto broker selection management system, starting from the scratch, responsible for the high level design and implementation of the UI and auto broker selection engine, using C#, ASP.NET 2.0, OOA/D/P methods and DB2 database.  Related Skills:  ? C#, ASP.NET 2.0, ADO.NET, XML.  ? Microsoft Visual Studio 2005/2008.  ? OOA/OOD/OOP.  ? MS SQL Server 2005, SQL and stored procedures. Software Developer Manulife Financial - Kitchener, ON April 2007 to October 2007 Worked in a small team, successfully delivered the first release of "On-line Billing" for Manulife Group Benefit Division within 6 months.  ? Started the project from the scratch, responsible for the development of user interface, bill management web service component and the notification component.  ? Created the design documents and the prototype for the users, finalized the design with BA and other team members.  ? Developed web forms, user controls and security configuration for the user interface.  ? Created and delivered the bill management and the notification web services.  ? Created SQL scripts and stored procedures in MS SQL server and DB2 for the web application.  Related Skills:  ? C#, VB.NET, ASP.NET, ADO.NET, Web Services, XML, SOAP, Web Security, MS Reporting Services, MSMQ.  ? SERENA PVCS Version Manager, Microsoft Visual Studio 2003  ? DB2, MS SQL Server 2000, SQL and stored procedures. Software Developer American Express Canada - Markham, ON June 2005 to January 2007 Responsible for the development of the integrated credit card management web application for American Express global markets.  ? Based on user's requests, developed new features for Desktop Plus 2000, fixed defects in the existing code.  ? Migrated classic ASP components to ASP.NET components.  ? Developed database stored procedures (MS SQL Server) for Desktop Plus 2000.  ? Created SQL scripts to maintain and enhance the database for Desktop Plus 2000.  ? Developed report applications for Canadian web-based application.  ? Provided application / customer supporting.  Related Skills:  ? C#, VB.NET, ASP.NET, ADO.NET, XML  ? Classic ASP, Java Script, VB Script  ? Oracle, MS SQL Server 2000, SQL and stored procedures Software Developer AdvanceTec Systems - Etobicoke, ON December 2003 to June 2005 Responsible for the development of web-based document management applications for high-profile financial services industry clients.  ? Worked on business requirement analysis, project design, and components design.  ? Designed the 3-tier .NET architecture which is capable of supporting all existing database products.  ? Implemented the application successfully using Microsoft ASP.NET, ADO.NET, C#, and SQL Server.  Related Skills:  ? C#, ASP.NET, ADO.NET, XML  ? MS SQL Server 2000, SQL and stored procedures Software Developer ComnetiX Computer Systems Inc - Oakville, ON September 1998 to August 2000 Full Time)  Responsible for both back-end and front-end development of this database-oriented distributed system.  ? Worked as a key developer in the project of RICI, a mug shot and fingerprint image management distributed system for RCMP and CIA.  ? Implemented PL/SQL stored procedures used to access an Oracle database from Java applications. Accessed Oracle 8i database using JDBC and SQL.  ? Designed and implemented interfaces for rapid data record adding, query, updating and deletion using Java.  ? Designed and Implemented procedures for database upgrade, rollback and replication.  ? Implemented the software in Java using OO principles, managed system real-time constraints and attained data integrity.  ? Developed the server side components using C/C++.  Related Skills:  ? Java, C/C++, Pro*C.  ? Oracle 8i, SQL and stored procedures.  ? Perl and UNIX shell scripts. Software Developer 01 Communiqué Inc - Mississauga, ON April 1997 to August 1998 As a lead developer, responsible for overall direction and management of the internationalization team.  • Developed the interactive audio and video-conferencing module based on H.323 standard using C++.  • Internationalized the software package in Japanese, French, German, Portuguese, Italian and Spanish. Software Developer Borland International Inc., Japan - Tokyo, JP April 1996 to April 1997 As a developer, responsible for implementation, testing and program management.  ? Participated in development and debugging of Borland IDE with C/C++ on Windows 95/NT.  ? Created and modified Borland component libraries with C/C++ and object oriented programming.  ? Localized Borland software products in Japanese. Programmer Analyst ALPS Electric Co - Yokohama, JP January 1992 to April 1996 Implemented remote monitor and BIOS programs for the HyperStone RISC processor evaluation board using C and assembly.  ? Worked on HyperStone RISC processor simulator and remote debugger, responsible for coding, testing and debugging. Education M.Sc. in Computer Science University of Western Ontario - London, ON 2002 B.Sc. of Computer Science Beijing University of Technology 1991 Skills ASP.Net (C#, VB.Net, ASP.Net, ADO.Net), ASP.Net framework (1.0, 1.1, 2.0, 3.5, 4.0), MVC, LINQ, WCF, Visual Studio 2010/2008/2005, Microsoft Team Foundation Server(2008/2010), Visual Source Safe/TFS Additional Information Technical Skills    Microsoft Tech:  Microsoft .Net (C#, VB.Net, ASP.Net, ADO.Net), .Net framework (1.0, 1.1, 2.0, 3.5, 4.0), MVC, LINQ, WCF, Visual Studio 2010/2008/2005, Microsoft Team Foundation Server(2008/2010), Visual Source Safe/TFS    Web Tech:  Ajax, XML/XSLT/HTML, CSS, Web service (SOAP)    Databases:  Microsoft SQL server (2008, 2005, 2000), DB2, Oracle 8i/9i, Microsoft Access    Java:   Eclipse, JDE, Apache Axis/Axis2, CXF    UNIX:   Solaris, HP and Linux; csh, ksh, bash; TCL/TK, Perl    Others:   C/C++, Crystal Report, Telerik, OOA/OOD/OOP