Sr.Net Developer Sr.Net <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr.Net Developer - Change Healthcare Newton, MA • Having 11+years of experience working with both web-based and windows-based application development using Microsoft Technologies had experience in design, requirement analysis, development of software lifecycle and Production support.  • Extensive experience in developing Intranet portal, Internet branding sites and business process application with complex functionality includes Asp.Net, C#, MVC, WCF/Web Service, Web-API, MS SQL Server database, JavaScript, JSON, JQuery, HTML.  • Worked on Microsoft .Net Framework 2.0 and .Net Framework 4.5  • Extensive experience in 3-tier architecture, MVC framework and MVP.  • Have software development exposure via Waterfall and Agile methodology and have good understanding of the process. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr.Net Developer Change Healthcare - Newton, MA March 2018 to Present Description: Change Healthcare is one of the largest, independent healthcare technology companies in the United States. The company provides software and analytics, network solutions and technology-enabled services that help our customers obtain actionable insights, exchange mission-critical information, control costs, optimize revenue opportunities, increase cash flow and effectively navigate the shift to value-based healthcare.    Responsibilities:  • Analyzing business requirements  • Developing the application for business requirements  • Developed the resuable framework for the application using ASP.Net MVC framework 4.5  • Worked with Web API to provide services to Http Request  • Host the web application in IIS7  • Document Impact Analysis for Business change to an existing module.  • Support business users to implement or amend business process  • Implement continuous process improvements  • Weekly status reporting  • Co-ordinate migration of code to UAT and Production environment.    Environment: ASP.Net, Asp.net MVC, C#.Net, SQL Queries, WebServices, WebApiMicrosoft Visual Studio 2010 & 2013, .Net Framework 4.5, SQL Server 2008 & 2012. Net Developer Citizens Bank - Providence, RI April 2016 to February 2018 Description: Citizens Bank is one of the oldest and largest financial services firms in the United States. Headquartered in Providence, Rhode Island, where its roots date back to 1828, Citizens offers retail and commercial banking products and services to individuals, small businesses, middle-market companies, large corporations and institutions    Responsibilities:  • Developing the application for business requirements  • Perform Unit Testing, System Integration Testing and document Test Results.  • Document Impact Analysis for Business change to an existing module.  • Support business users to implement or amend business process  • Implement continuous process improvements  • Co-ordinate migration of code to UAT and Production environment.    Environment: Windows XP, 8 & 10 ASP.Net, ASP.net MVC, C#.Net, SQL Queries, WebAPI, Webservices  Microsoft Visual Studio 2010 & 2013, .Net Framework 4.5, SQL Server 2008 & 2012 Software Developer Cigna - Bloomfield, CT June 2014 to March 2016 Responsibilities:  • Analyze business requirements and develop the application as required.  • Involved in developing Services using C#.NET, WCF  • UI development & enrichment using CSS, JAVASCRIPT  • Perform Unit Testing, System Integration Testing    Environment: Windows XP & 7  WCF, C# .Net, SQL Queries Microsoft Visual Studio 2010, SQL Server 2008 Software Developer Wolters Kluwer, Jorie Blvd - Oak Brook, IL October 2012 to May 2014 Responsibilities:  • Analyze business requirements and develop the application as required.  • Involved in developing Services using C#.NET, WCF Service, WPF  • UI development & enrichment using CSS, JAVASCRIPT  • Perform Unit Testing, System Integration Testing    Environment: Windows XP WCF, WPF, C#.Net, SQL QueriesMicrosoft Visual Studio SQL Server Software Developer General Motors - Detroit, MI April 2011 to September 2012 Responsibilities:  • Analyzing business requirements  • Developing the application for business requirements  • Perform Unit Testing, System Integration Testing and document Test Results.  • Implement continuous process improvements  • Weekly status reporting  • Fix production issues and monitor batch cycle, if required  • Prepare RCA and take preventive measures for all the production bugs.  • Co-ordinate migration of code to UAT and Production environment.  • Urban code deployment  • Build the application in Jenkins  • Service now tool for ticketing  • QC tool for quality control    Environment: Windows XP, Windows Seven Asp.Net, C#.Net, SQL 2005, MVP Microsoft Visual Studio 2005 & 2010, SQL Server 2005 Software Developer State of Massachusetts - Boston, MA April 2009 to March 2011 Description: The Executive Office of Energy and Environmental Affairs seeks to protect, preserve, and enhance the Commonwealth's environmental resources while ensuring a clean energy future for the state's residents. Through the stewardship of open space, protection of environmental resources, and enhancement of clean energy, the Executive Office of Energy and Environmental Affairs works tirelessly to make Massachusetts a wonderful place to live, work, and raise a family.    Responsibilities:  • Analyzing business requirements  • Developing the application for business requirements  • Perform Unit Testing, System Integration Testing and document Test Results.  • Involved in Production support activities working on tickets based on priority.  • Urban code deployment  • Build the application in Jenkins  • Service now tool for ticketing  • QC Tool for quality control    Environment: Windows XP Asp.Net, C#.Net, SQL Queries Microsoft Visual Studio 2005, SQL Server 2005 Software Developer General Dynamics Information Technology - Towson, MD September 2007 to March 2009 Description: The Retiree Drug Subsidy Program is a program offered by the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) to reimburse health plan sponsors (municipalities, unions and private employers) for a portion of their eligible expenses for retiree prescription drug benefits. This enables plan Sponsors to continue providing drug coverage to their Medicare-eligible retirees at a lower cost.    Responsibilities:  • Analyzing business requirements  • Developing the application for business requirements  • Perform Unit Testing, System Integration  • Testing and document Test Results.    Environment: Windows XP Asp.Net, C#.Net, SQL Queries Microsoft Visual Studio 2005, SQL Server 2005 Education Bachelor's Skills net (10+ years), C# (10+ years), MS SQL Server (10+ years), SQL (10+ years), SQL server (10+ years)