Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer - GMMI INC Pembroke Pines, FL Work Experience Software Developer GMMI INC March 2019 to Present Develop solutions with Visual Foxpro and SQL. Backend developer True Partners USA LLC February 2018 to October 2018 - Design of data structures for the new platform on firebase (NoSQL),  - Cloud functions (for the IOS team develop specific task like API to consult web sites and interact with other web API, jobs for retrieve custom data for the app )  - Process of send data from firebase to QuickBooks (Look for pending invoices and build and XML with it, in other process as a web service interact with QuickBooks and send those xml.  - Process to build csv files (based on parameters, query data from firebase in a cloud function, build a CSV and upload it to a FTP server.  - Migration for master tables from MySQL into firebase.  - Process to extract data from google analytics and insert into MySQL database.  Nodejs, JavaScript, Typescript, Firebase, MySQL, Git  Exposure to Angular, Bootsrap, CSS Software Developer Freelancer July 2016 to February 2018 Software developer,  - Fix issues with app developed with foxpro to use authorize.net  - Development using C#, Net Core, Angular and SQL databases.  - Research about aws, and dynamodb to use on a project with a startup  - Training on Microsoft Virtual Academy about azure, IOT and Xamarin  - Training on mongodb  - Support of software for clinics on Venezuela by VPNDevelop stored procedures with T-SQL. Senior Software Developer - Support of administrative software of Clinic Leopoldo Aguerrevere Agge Consultores - Caracas, VE July 2009 to July 2016 to get the scalability to successfully for work with the news technologies. Implantation of Hospitality software on Clinic Materno Infantil Zaraza. Senior Software Developer- Implantation of Windows network Clinic Leopoldo Aguerrevere C.A - Caracas, VE February 2003 to July 2009 development the software of Clinic administration with Visual FoxPro as Front End, including modules of budget, inventory, medical payroll, bills and the database is on Microsoft SQL Server, Database Administrator, and Migration of some legacy data from AS400 into SQL server  • Interface with application for exchange bills, records of stocks, for external pharmacy (Unix SCO, DBF).  • Interface with application of laboratory (XML)  • Build applications for business unit in services like radiology, therapy.  • Meeting with CEO and managers for evaluate new implementations. Senior Software Developer Clinic Sanatrix C.A - Caracas, VE September 1998 to February 2003 Development of software for the core of the business, including, schedules for quirurgic operations, budgets, inventory, and orders of purchase.  • Migration of some legacy data from Unix SCO (DBF) into Visual FoxPro DBF (Windows)  • Meeting with CEO and managers for evaluate new implementation Developer Clinic Santiago de Leon C.A - Caracas, VE September 1992 to March 1998 Develop modules for applications for accounting, budget, inventory, bank and the complete application of payroll with clipper on Novell Netware. Help desk from end users on windows / Office.  Migration of legacy data.  • Lead small team of 3 developer  • Meeting with CEO and managers for evaluate new implementations. Education None in informatics Microsoft University - Caracas, VE 2008 Skills Data modeling, Database, Database design, Sql, Sql queries, C#, Firebase, Javascript, Object-oriented, Object-oriented programming, Software development, Etl, T-sql, MYSQL, Git, ASP Additional Information Expertise Highlights  Software Development Lifecycle, Database Design & Management, Strategic technology planning, Object-Oriented Programming Data/Business, Software Implementation, SQL Queries & Data modeling, ETL, C#, T-SQL, JavaScript, Nodejs, Firebase