Principal Test Analyst Principal Test Analyst Principal Test Analyst - University of Texas at Arlington Grapevine, TX Work Experience Principal Test Analyst University of Texas at Arlington - Arlington, TX January 2012 to Present Responsible for managing all QA related programs and projects. In addition was responsible for leading several enterprise wide projects.  • Provided end to end test automation for several web applications including ServiceNow using Java and Selenium.  • Lead Test Automation and Performance initiative for the University. Successfully completed performance testing of several enterprise applications.  • Successfully completed Test Automation using People Soft Test Framework for several departments, Admission, Recruitment, Graduate Studies, IRP and Portal Testing.  • Presented at Test Automation at Oracle OpenWorld 2014.  • Presented Test Automation at SCHRUG2013 and SCHRUG 2014.  • Guided Duke University, University of Houston, University of Nebraska and Washington State Board of Technical Colleges with their Automation.  • Gave educational webinars through HEUG  • Elected as Staff Advisory Committee Representative with highest votes, and represented IT department in the committee  • Researched and selected WebLOAD for performance testing which costed half the price for Loadrunner and gave 10 times the functionality.  • Conducted Business Analysis, Project Initiation, Project Coordination, Documentation and Testing for the ServiceNow implementation to replace the incident/request management system for UTA.  • Created a scholarship program for students to get IT Skills while studying called ITLEAD successfully.  • Lead an enterprise wide security initiative, involving installation of the security software in 600 end points across campus and, monitoring the security of the systems on campus and conducting the Incident Response Planning workshop.  Achievements  ? Increased efficiency of testing process by 200%.  ? Reduced annual testing costs by more 50%.  ? Was selected to present Test Automation using People Soft Test Framework at Oracle Open World 2014 and SCHRUG 2013 and 2014.  ? Was recognized for extra ordinary effort in Project Management and Test Automation.  ? Was elected to the Staff Advisory Council as a department representative of Office of Information Technology. Web Developer University of Texas at Arlington - Arlington, TX January 2012 to November 2018 Was responsible for Designing, Developing, Testing and maintaining several web applications;  • Designed and developed the web applications, Green Team Initiative, Counseling Registration System, Staff Advisory Council Elections system using Java, Groovy and Grails  • Tracked and resolved issues with the different web applications quickly and efficiently.  • Migrated web content to a new Content Management System, Cascade Server.  • Responsible for keeping the Web Content up to date.  Achievements  ? Received Outstanding in almost all performance reviews.  ? Maintained a record of zero outstanding issues at the close of business each day. Senior Software Developer Pinnacle Corporation December 2005 to December 2006 Was responsible for maintenance and enhancements of the inventory management system used by convenience stores and gas stations.  Achievements  ? Successfully created several SQL procedures to verify data being reported by EPM tool.  ? Mentored junior developers.  ? Was awarded employee of the month in June 2006. Senior Software Developer Q4i Irving, TX September 2004 to September 2005 Was responsible for redesigning and making the Financial Management System efficient and bug free.    Achievements  ? Improved speed of the system 2 times.  ? Achieved greater efficiency in customizing the application for different clients and delivered the product sooner than expected.  ? Documented each part of the system and customization process. Software Developer Sonus Networks - Richardson, TX December 2000 to December 2001 Was responsible for design, development, documentation and maintenance for the provisioning and statistics subsystem, using Java and EJB. Education MBA in Information Systems University of Texas at Arlington - Arlington, TX May 2017 MS in Computer Science Osmania University 1999 Skills Java, Jsp, Sql server, Oracle, Pl/sql, Sql, Api, Html, Ms project, Software development, Visio, Load runner, Selenium, Ms office, Documentation, Technical documentation, Performance testing, Quality assurance, Business analysis, Vendor management Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/RadhaPadmasolala Additional Information AREAS OF EXPERTISE  Team Leadership Quality Assurance  Program Development Web Site Development  Technical Documentation Business Analysis  Problem Solving Test Automation  Vendor Management Performance Testing  Software Development Functional, load ad API testing  Application Maintenance Complete Software Development Lifecycle    Technical Proficiency: MS Office, MS Visio, MS Project, PowerPoint, Load Runner, Selenium, Java, JSP, HTML, SQL, PL/SQL, Oracle, SQL Server, Cascade Server.