Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer - HMI Inc Over 5 years of experience in web and windows application using Microsoft Technologies.  - Expertise in requirements gathering, analysis, design, testing, implementation and deployment of  Client/Server and Web-based N-tier, 3-tier and MVC architecture systems.  - Experience in developing the applications using C#, MVC, ASP.NET 4.0/3.5, ADO.NET, LINQ, Web  Forms, HTML5, Web Services, SQL Server.  - Experience in developing web applications using MVC4, Razor design pattern, Entity Framework and  Web API for scalable, standard-based web application.  - Proficient in front end UI development using HTML5, AJAX, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery (Knockout.js,  Angular.js, bootstrap.js, d3.js, DC.js, and many more..)  - Strong experience working on Azure Cloud Services creating Virtual Machines (VM), Blobs, URL  redirecting, managing VMs & data storage, Installing IIS and database server on Azure VM.  - Integrating CSM (desk.com) and creating FTP Server for the clients using FTP and SFTP protocols.  - Worked extensively on HTML5, CSS3, Master pages and Themes to design web pages.  - Strong database design and development experience with MS SQL SERVER 2008/2012.  - Proficient in using T-SQL queries, Stored Procedures, Functions and Triggers in in SQL Server.  - Experience in working with Crystal Reports, SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS) using visual studio.  - Involve in unit testing, fixing bugs and maintenance of application.  - Experience in deploying and testing web applications on IIS 6.0/7.0/8.0.  - Strong working experience in managing security policies including Authentication, Authorizations,  Membership, Roles and Profiles.  - Ability to work independently and in a team environment and actively participate in projects within  work groups and across organizations. Work Experience Software Developer HMI Inc - Norwood, MA March 2016 to Present Project: Multiple projects (Daimler, Watts, Eaton, APC, CATFIN, Polyglass, Anixter )  Description: HMI Inc 1980 to Present is a leading full-service performance improvement company focusing on channel loyalty incentives, sales/customer incentives, employee engagement programs and group travel. Since 1980, HMI has combined  powerhouse solutions with personal service to develop successful incentive strategies for Fortune 1000  companies that increase sales, market share, loyalty and profits. Based in Boston, HMI provides client services in over 80 countries worldwide.    Responsibilities:  - Working on to develop new features, contribute to the software development of new client web sites  and contribute to efforts to address defects in a timely manner.  - Require to work within our team as well as with members of our cross functional teams, including  Program Manages, Client Services and Salespeople.  - Gathered business requirements, prepare functional specification and design application flow.  - Expertise in deploying, configuring and maintaining client websites and services on IIS and on web  server.  - Used cloud Azure Services, Azure Virtual Machines (VMs), Blobs for Storage.  - Experience in deploying, configuring and maintaining websites and services on IIS 7.0 and SQL Server  on VM. Set up FTP and SFTP Server on Azure VM.  - Engaged in developing an application using special skills of Entity Framework, LINQ Make, Web API, VB.Net, C#, XML, Cloud Azure portal, scripting languages.  - Make use of Bootstrap JavaScript library to make it mobile friendly.  - Used Entity Framework and LINQ for database connection and to play with records. Also created  Stored Procedures, Triggers, Functions, and Views in SQL Server 2012 for accessing with database.    Environment:  - Visual Studio 2012, Asp.Net 4.0, C#, MVC 4.0, LINQ, Entity Framework, HTML, AJAX, XML, Web API, JavaScript, JQuery, Crystal Reports, SQL Server 2010, IIS 7.0. HMI Inc - Dartmouth, MA January 2014 to December 2015 Project 1: Data Visualization  Environment: D3.JS, JavaScript, JQuery, CSS3, HTML5, XML, Asp.Net, Web Services, GitHub  - This was provenance based project where I need to track the data and maintain the history of data  in data visualization using latest d3 JavaScript (http://d3js.org/)  - This project creates data visualization for comparing different countries based on their diversity in culture and captures its provenance record.  - Used XML file to store captured provenance data.  - Application was designed using HTML5 and CSS in visual studio.  - Used web service for data fetching and storing from JavaScript  - Used GitHub repository and push the source code for version controlling and pull.    Project 2: Data Visualization  Environment: DC JS, CrossFilter JS and D3 JS, JQuery, CSS3, HTML5, XML, Asp.Net, Web Services, GitHub  - Idea of the project is to develop a JavaScript Library that captures provenance in interactive web  visualization.  - This developed library captures provenance, record thumbnails, and return to earlier any stage and can further explore the data.  - For data storage, used XML as a database.  - Used HTML5 and CSS for application design.  - Make use of web service for data fetching and storing from JavaScript.  - Used GitHub repository and push the source code for version controlling and pull. Teaching Assistant HMI Inc February 2015 to May 2015 - Working as a teaching assistant for computer & Information science department.  - Responsibilities includes as grader and tutor for assignment checking and for doubt solving of students for Data Visualization class under the Professor David Koop. .Net Developer HMI Inc December 2014 to February 2015 Project: AdvEntPos Application (Advance Enterprise Point of Sale)  Description:  Sypram is an IT company that provides Mobility, Windows and Web Solutions. AdvEntPos is a Point of Sale  Software that is designed specifically to fulfill the needs of modern retail industry. The software contains  various modules that are engineered to accommodate the needs of various types of business requirements  viz. Inventory Management, Customer Loyalty Management, PCI Compliance. This is one of the best POS  Application with unique features and facilities.  Responsibilities:  - Gathered business requirements and prepare functional specification.  - Design application flow and developed UML diagram using Visio.  - Created an application using Asp.net MVC 3.0 architecture.  - Engaged in developing an application using Entity Framework Code First approach for Data Access  - Layer for Asp.Net MVC 3.0 using HTML5 and razor view.  - Make use of Web API service to access database records as it is for both web and windows  application.  - Make use of Bootstrap JavaScript library to make it mobile friendly.  - Implement client side validations using JQuery and server side validations with Asp.Net MVC code  behind language.  - Used Entity Framework and LINQ for database connection and to play with records. Also created  - Stored Procedures, Triggers, Functions, and Views in SQL Server 2012 for accessing with database.  - Created various reports using Crystal Reports in .Net.  - Experience in deploying, configuring and maintaining websites and services on IIS 7.0.  Environment:  - Visual Studio 2012, Asp.Net 4.0, C#, MVC 4.0, LINQ, Entity Framework, HTML, AJAX, XML, Web API, JavaScript, JQuery, Crystal Reports, SQL Server 2010, IIS 7.0. Software Developer HMI Inc - Ahmedabad, Gujarat December 2012 to January 2014 Project: Worked on multiple projects  Kaira Software is an IT solution company for mobile and website Application Development. I have gained  extensive experience as an IT engineer and had an opportunity to work on multiple projects involving  scripting, coding, web & windows development, testing, and database management. Project includes receipt  printing for different actions like deposit and loan payment to make it easy for the customers. Another  project includes CreditEd for maintaining household budget.  Responsibilities:  - Design and implemented the web pages of project using Asp.Net C#.  - Involve in development of code using N-tier and 3-tier architecture, and database connectivity.  - Also engage in development of web-based application using Asp.Net MVC.  - Developed RESTful Services using Web API to support client side data processing needs.  - Used AJAX for partial update of the page and for asynchronous calls to the server.  - Also used JSON to transmit data between server and web application.  - Implemented Exception Handling, Catching and Cryptography.  - Wrote SQL queries with varying degree of complexity, Stored Procedures, Functions and Triggers  using SQL Server 2008.  - Maintained technical support for earlier website during current development.  - Used SVN for version control during development and maintenance.    Environment:  - Visual Studio 2012, Asp.Net 4.0, C#, MVC 4.0, LINQ, Entity Framework, HTML, AJAX, XML, Web API, JavaScript, JQuery, Crystal Reports, SQL Server 2010, IIS 7.0. Jr. Software Developer HMI Inc - Ahmedabad, Gujarat June 2012 to December 2012 Project: SYNERGY  SYNERGY was the main project on which I had worked for the company at that time. This was among the best  ERP which takes care of every aspect of business cycle. It designs in such a way that Cybercrime is minimum and MIS reports will clear everything. As a software developer, I need to take care of everything from fixing  bugs, designing layout, requirement changes and implementing new requirements.  Responsibilities:  - Design and implemented the web pages of project using Asp.Net C#.  - Involve in development of code using N-tier and 3-tier architecture, and database connectivity.  - Used Ado.Net objects like Data Reader, Dataset and Data View for SQL interaction.  - Used AJAX for asynchronous calls.  - Extensively worked on writing Stored Procedures, Functions and Triggers.  - Extensively used Asp.Net features like Gridview, Detailsview, Listview and other controls for displaying data.  - Generated reports using Crystal Reports for users.  - Worked on security issue related to user authentication and authorization.  - Used VSS for version control during development and maintenance.    Environment:  - Visual Studio 2008, Asp.Net 3.5, C#, vb.Net, HTML, AJAX, XML, JavaScript, JQuery, CSS, Crystal  Reports, SQL Server 2008, IIS. Education Master's Degree in Computer & Information Science University of Massachusetts Dartmouth - Dartmouth, MA Bachelor's Degree in Computer Engineering Gujarat Technological University - Ahmedabad, Gujarat Skills Visual studio, Api, C#, Git, Javascript, Bootstrap, Reporting tools, Svn, Vb.net, Xml, Asp, Iis, Asp.net, Database, Sql server, Mysql, Sql, Stored procedures, jquery, Crystal reports Additional Information Technical Skills:    Programming Language: C#. vb.Net  IDE: Visual Studio 2015/2013/2012/2010/2008  Technologies: Asp.Net, MVC, Web Forms, JavaScript, JQuery (Knockout,  BootStrap, Angular, d3, DC), Web Service, Web API, XML,  HTML5, CSS3, Entity Framework, LINQ, IIS  Database: SQl Server, MySql (Queries, Stored Procedures, Functions,  Triggers, DB Normalizations)    Services: Cloud Azure Services, Blobs, managing VMs and storage.  Installing IIS, database server and creating FTP server on VMs    Reporting Tools: Crystal Reports, SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS)  Version Control: Team Foundation Server (TFS), SVN, Github, Git  Testing: Unit Testing, Analyzing and preparing Test plans, Test cases,  Test documents    Photo Editing: Photoshop