SENIOR SOFTWARE DEVELOPER SENIOR <span class="hl">SOFTWARE</span> <span class="hl">DEVELOPER</span> .Net Lead Scottsdale, AZ ? Around 13 years of diversified experience in Web development, System Analysis, Technical Design, Implementation, Performance Tuning, Testing and Release/Build management in all stages of Full Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) in various Information Technology areas involving C#.NET, ASP.NET, WCF Services, Web API, Angular JS, Entity Framework, LINQ, MVC Framework and SQL Server.  ? Highly Skilled in .NET Technologies with extensive experience in developing SOA based multi-tier applications.  ? Have successfully handled software development for diverse functions & work areas.  ? Thorough understanding of Technical and Functional concepts in Telecom Domain, Social Networking, GPS, Retail Industry, Finance Domain and business applications.  ? Experience in web development, .NET Development (Ex- in ASP.Net and window services), Web APIs, web services, and SSO (single sign-on).  ? Good working experience on in developing WCF Services, Web Api Services and Web services (Rest and Soap).  ? Experience in using Web Services, Xml, CSS, HTML, Ajax and JavaScript, JQuery and Angular JS.  ? Extensive experience in SQL Server Database design, developing T-SQL queries, stored procedures, views, function, Tables and triggers using SQL Server.  ? Working experience with Source Control Management tools such as; Team Foundation Server (TFS), VSS and SVN.  ? Experience in Dev Ops tools like (Jenkins and TFS).  ? Practical experience in developing application with Test Driven Development (NUnit Test)  ? Additional skills include CSS, AngularJS (or similar client side framework), Angular 2.0, REST using Web API, SharePoint 2010/2013.  ? Strong experience in Agile development process for diverse requirements.  ? Capable of taking initiative as the situation calls, eager and able to learn new technologies quickly. Possess versatile leadership qualities and the ability to manage change. Accept responsibilities and job duties eagerly with minimal supervision and Works well under pressure.  ? Good communication skills, interpersonal skills, self-motivated, quick learner, team player.  ? Accomplished Senior Software Developer with 13 years of experience leading projects by acting as architect, developer and programmer analyst. Proficient in supporting project deliverables and maintaining releases.  ? Strong leader in guiding support teams and solving complex issues. Steadfast in planning and implementing effective development strategies based on industry best practices.    Currently working as Senior Software Developer with IBM, India    Current accountabilities includes  ? Provide input into the provision of estimates based on the agreed process, contribute to the physical design of Internet solutions and produce design specifications based on agreed design principles  ? Develop components that are as widely reusable in accordance with the Company strategic objectives  ? To assist with the spread of knowledge within the team by effectively communicating ideas solutions and approaches to colleagues  ? To help identify potential development opportunities and areas of improvement within existing applications and processes  To undertake system development in the languages stated including unit and system testing of the components Work Experience SENIOR SOFTWARE DEVELOPER BB&T - Harrisburg, PA November 2015 to Present Crump life Insurance Applications    Crump life insurance provides electronic solutions for processing life insurance business. It includes Insure Now, App Now, Contract Now and Forms Now. These tools offer electronic solutions, contracting and forms that can shorten processing times by weeks.    Insure Now  This application used to create a case electronically, once case completed it will create a record in database so the other service named insure now ticket drop picked up and process the case, which sending these record in XML format to EMSI carrier and once response came back then insert record into the main table when these case will manage and then policy will assign to these cases. Cases created by the insurance agents.  To manage the case there is tool called Paragon where case related information maintained by underwriters.    There are multiple applications developed in the .Net MVC using Angular JS and Multiple Batch Jobs, console application, Services to support the cases and those comes under Image Transmission Hub    Some Application developed to upload the images for the case -  1.) Emmover  .Net based application connect to exchange where user send email with the images as attachment, this application running continuously and checking the exchange web service and getting email and process the image attachment and generate a edx package and send it to Paperclip application. This application opens multiple thread on server to read multiple emails and process them, for that I have used the Degree of Parallelism which read multiple email boxes and process the images.  2.) DCP (Document Capture Place)  A web application developed in .NET MVC where user select a case and upload an image, which store on shared location, then another console application picks it and convert into the edx format which contain images and metadata file and then send it to paperclip application. Here web application developed using MVC and Angular JS and for Queue MSMQ used so uploaded package will not lost.  3.) FetchImages  This application is a console based application it reads the FTP and get the images from FTP and convert them into EDX format. FTP have both metadata and images, both will download and converted into EDX package and send to paperclip application.    Pro Offer  This application is used to summaries the medical information which comes through carrier, there is one console based application which is importing the images from the carrier FTP then those image will process and convert into Tiff format, once conversion done then it will available in the pro offer website for review, From the website user will summaries it and again send it to carrier through batch job, which is running continuously on server and checking for record to process.    There are multiple single page application also there which is opened through the paragon and those for support the case.    Responsibilities:  ? Responsible for rewriting application like pro offer, Insure now and DCP and also responsible for enhancement in the existing applications.  ? Developed reusable component like EDX creation, reading files from FTP which used in all the applications using C#.  ? Used dependence injection (Autofac) and NHibernate as ORM.  ? Used log4Net for error logging.  ? Responsible for developing web services using WCF and Web API.  ? Responsible for writing unit test cases for service.  ? Responsible to writing all complex logic in the application and writing a code to get the data from MSMQ and process it via application.  ? Responsible for creating and architecture of service and applications.  ? Responsible for leading team and handle all development activities.  ? Responsible for managing design document, estimation document, resource planning, project tracking for crump insurance projects.  ? Responsible for architecting project, coding, testing and maintaining MVC based application with using bootstrap UI.  ? Responsible for effective communication between the project team and the customer. Provide day to day update to manager and customer.  ? Working on Agile process, use TFS to assign work order and tracking.  ? Reporting services using to generate multiple types of report based on the batch process.  ? Developed web application insure now and pro offer using MVC and Angular JS and Angular2.0.    Technology: Oracle 18g, Asp.Net4.5, MVC, C#, SSRS, Angular JS, Web API, WCF, Angular 2.0, JQuery, Nhibernate  Team Size: 5 to 8    ? Precept Applications    Instore Application (Precept Tools)  Instore application written in the .Net MVC and Angular JS, Instore application majorly used to configure jobs, there are multiple jobs running for different-2 company which have multiple steps to download some files from third party tools then processing those files using SSIS package, and some manipulation on file manually, need to run some SP in the database etc.. All these steps are configure into instore application and we have create a scheduler too in the application so jobs can be scheduled based on the calendar day.    Responsibilities:  ? Responsible for rewriting the application into MVC and Angular.  ? Developed reusable components like SSIS packages ran manually or automatically.  ? Enhanced database stored procedure which read the scheduled SSIS jobs and ran it.  ? All SSIS job stored into the Catalog so it can also called through the code.  ? Used dependence injection (Autofac) and Entity Framework as ORM.  ? Used log4Net for error logging.  ? Debugging and enhancing SSIS jobs.  ? Responsible for writing unit test cases for website.  ? Responsible to writing all complex logic in the application.  ? Responsible for creating and architecture of applications.  ? Responsible for leading team and handle all development activities.  ? Responsible for managing design document, estimation document, resource planning, project tracking for Precept projects.  ? Responsible for architecting project, coding, testing and maintaining MVC based application.  ? Responsible for effective communication between the project team and the customer. Provide day to day update to manager and customer.  ? Working on Agile process, use TFS to assign work order and tracking.  ? Responsible to create stored procedure and enhance it.    Technology: Microsoft C# ASP.NET2015 (4.5), MVC, SQL server 2008R2, SSIS, SSRS, Angular JS, Entity Framework  Team Size: 3 to 4 Senior Software Developer IBM India Pvt. Ltd - Pune, Maharashtra August 2010 to Present IBM India Pvt. Ltd August 2010 to Present SENIOR SOFTWARE DEVELOPER MACY'S SYSTEM AND TECHNOLOGY - Atlanta, GA May 2015 to October 2015 Back2Front(RFID)    In Back to Front project where Macy's want to scan stockroom inventory and create a Picklist of missing colors and sizes on the sales floor. In the back room a user uses the RFID technology scan each item in inventory and when scan completes he saved it and send a request to web service. Web service will take it from database and generate the Picklist and saved in enterprise database. After saving user will able to see it on website and generate different-2 reports, print as a PDF or export to excel.  Another feature of project is if user want to access the picklist on handheld device and modify it. User can access the generated picklist on device and he want to move item from missing list to Picked list he can search the product number and moved it to picked or not found or user can scan it and move it.    Application have two different parts, one is for Backend and other is for Handheld    Backend - It's for enterprise database where picklist stored into the database, handheld send the picklist to the backend service and it will take and store it. WEB API service used to transfer the data and it's in the JASON format.    Handheld - Service developed for the handheld, so once the device generate the list it will communicate to service and store the list into retail database. From this DB enterprise service pick and save into the enterprise database.    Responsibilities  ? Responsible for developing the web services.  ? Responsible for writing unit test cases for every service.  ? Responsible for writing all complex logic in the service.  ? Responsible for creating database object.  ? Created stored procedure, views and table in database.  ? Responsible for deploying service on development server.  ? Communicate with other team and deploy service on other environment.  ? Services are the rest based.  ? Two different type of service created one for retail server and other for web farm. Retail services runs on every stores and web farm runs on the enterprise server.  ? Responsible to create an architecture for service.  ? Responsible to help other team to consume the services on handheld and in website.  ? Resolved all the Nuget package issue in the service and streamline it.  ? Using Nunit and Moq for unit testing.  ? Working in Agile process. Using Jira to assign task and tracking.  ? Take ownership and coordinate application development tasks with a third party software vendor.  ? Use C3 and D3 JS for Graphical report of picklists.    Technology: Microsoft C# ASP.NET2013 (4.5), LINQ, SQL server 2008R2, Nunit, Moq, Nuget Package, Web API, Entity Framework, Jenkins, C3 and D3 JS    Team Size: 5 to 10 SENIOR SOFTWARE DEVELOPER XEROX - Rochester, NY November 2014 to April 2015 ICS REWRITE  ICS is web application, which is configurable, Interactive and administrable. The main objective of this application is to deliver to the commission payment to sales people in Xerox-US. The intent of this web application is to reduce the process overhead for any RFC (example: - If there is any request for change in report in system then it will take long time to complete the process (means taking approval for every business person for change). This system will test those changes in base case then publish it directly into production. It is reducing those processes overhead time.)    It's an automated system from creation to distribution. This application given a customization option to user so user can customize the report or configure according to parameters and also maintain versions for every configuration. User can create new and maintain the CompPlan group and configure a report according to CompPlan group.    Responsibilities  ? Responsible for coding and designing of application.  ? Responsible to create an architecture for application.  ? Deliver new and complex high quality solutions to clients in response to varying business requirements.  ? Coordinate and communicate task with developers.  ? Ensure that development is performed as per requirement.  ? Use Visual studio 2012 and JQuery in this project.  ? Written C# code and maintain and create forms and reports. Make CSS and design for whole website.  ? Created stored procedure, views and table in database.  ? Responsible for deploying website on development server.  ? Communicate with other team and deploy website on other environments.  ? Take ownership and coordinate application development tasks with a third party software vendor. SENIOR SOFTWARE DEVELOPER ONCOR - Pune, Maharashtra January 2014 to October 2014 MAHARASTRA, INDIA  ? Certificate Tracker    A variety of applications in ONCOR uses certificates. So it's very important to maintain the certificates and take proper precautions before a certificate expires and it causes issues in an Application. To prevent any potential outages in an Application, it's imperative that we maintain and track the certificates used in ONCOR Applications.    This application have two parts one for admin where certificates details need to entered and other is for dashboard where each application wise certificate details displayed, application started giving warning once certificate nearly to expire, so on time certificate need to renew and update the date.  Responsibilities    ? Responsible for delivering solution to our customer.  ? Deliver new and complex high quality solutions to clients in response to varying business requirements.  ? Responsible for managing scope, planning, tracking, aspects of the project.  ? Responsible for writing code from scratch in C# and JQuery.  ? Application developed using MVC.  ? Alerts and warning displayed on the dashboard.  ? For reporting RDLC sheet is using.  ? Project is deployed on Share point.  ? Created WSP file and deploy it on production.  ? Written a c# code for certificate maintain and create forms to add a certificate. Make CSS and design for whole website.  ? It's a SharePoint application so for authentication use SharePoint authentication and for email make a c# application and schedule it in windows server. LINQ 2012 to 2012 SQL Server 2008R2, SSRS, SSIS, JQuery  Team Size: 3 to 5    Technology: Microsoft C# (4.5) 2012, LINQ, SQL Server 2008R2, SSRS, JQuery  Team Size: 2 to 3    ? Operation Dashboard    The purpose of this project is to build a dashboard which will be enriched in graphics indicating the current status of all the critical business applications, critical batches and critical processes with color coding.  Along with this, it will also show the trend of all the critical batches and processes from past week or month as required and keep track on all open tickets severity and application wise.  This is a single page dashboard application which have multiple web parts and display different-2 records. It also develop in SharePoint.  Responsibilities    ? Responsible for delivering solution to our customer.  ? Deliver new and complex high quality solutions to clients in response to varying business requirements.  ? Responsible to deploy application in different-2 environment (like SIT, UAT, PreProd and Prod).  ? Responsible for writing code from scratch in C# and JQuery.  ? Responsible to maintain the application and any changes will come in future complete it and deploy the application.  ? Alerts and warning displayed on the dashboard.    Technology: Microsoft C# (4.5) 2012, LINQ, SQL Server 2008R2, JQuery  Team Size: 1    ? CNO    CNO is portal used by business to see the all the open exceptions, completed exceptions logged through IVR.  Also tickets pending, tickets created, Non Match Records are being displayed here  CNO was developed in MOSS 2007 which later on got migrated to Sharepoint 2010.  The portal is just used as an interface to display the ticket information. CNO is not a standalone application. It fetches data from Oracle database. Also it interacts with other applications like ESB which further communicates with LCIS which stores the customer information.  This is being used 24*7.  ESB is the Integration Platform for exchanging data between Oncor Applications and In-service OMS Applications. It integrates all the data received from sources of reporting outage.  Field Workers get the data from OMS and provide the service to End Customer. SharePoint 2010 is the desired solution because of its alignment with Oncor's overall IT strategy  Responsibilities    ? Responsible for deploying the application and maintaining it.    ? SDS    The centralized portal for deployment change requests will eliminate the hassle of tracking requests in BMC remedy and it will be useful to monitor and administer lower environment application setup and migration. It also will have features for notifying the stakeholders as a request flows through the work flow.  Responsibilities    ? Responsible for deploying the application and maintaining it.  ? Develop in SharePoint using visual studio 2010.  ? Responsible for development and design of the application    ? Command Center    Command Center Application is used to collect RF Meter reading from collector and pass it to MDMS System. Command center (CC) is the application responsible for interacting with Meter inbound or outbound.    Command center is a part of AMS (Advance Metering System). CC is the gateway application, which interacts with Collectors for the meter information.    CC collects meter reading, creates LP files and MR files, and sends it to MDMS and AMS R3. Below flow describes the file interaction between CC and different AMS systems.    Responsibilities  ? Responsible for supporting the application.  ? Responsible for sending daily ODR report.  ? Responsible for get the Connect Disconnect status report from oracle and send it to client.  ? Responsible to write a query for connect disconnect report.  ? Responsible for get the LLupdate and update it in database and send report to client.    Environment: Microsoft C# ASP.NET2010 (4.0), Linq, oracle11g, Ajax, JQuery  Team Size: 7 Team Lead Rishabh Software Pvt. Ltd - Vadodara, Gujarat January 2010 to August 2010 Senior Software Engineer Snl Corporate - Mohali, Punjab July 2008 to January 2010 Software Engineer India Ltd - Jaipur, Rajasthan May 2007 to July 2008 Software Engineer Tayal Software Consultancy Services - Udaipur, Rajasthan July 2006 to April 2007 Techon Dater Systems Pvt. Ltd - Udaipur, Rajasthan August 2005 to July 2006 Work Experience Education BACHELOR OF ELECTRONICS AND COMMUNICATION in ELECTRONICS AND COMMUNICATION RAJASTHAN UNIVERSITY 2005 Skills SQL SERVER, SQL SERVER 2005, ORACLE, SQL, .NET, VISUAL STUDIO, API, C#, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, JENKINS, JSON, WCF, ORM, SCRIPTING, SVN, VBA, XML, jQuery, AJAX Additional Information Skills  ? RDBMS: MS-SQL Server 2005/2008/2012, Oracle 18g  ? Languages: Asp.Net (3.5, 4.0, 4.5), C#, HTML, XML  ? Framework: MVC, WPF, .Net.  ? IDE: Visual Studio 2008/2010/2013/2015/2017  ? Methodology: Agile (Scrum Variant)  ? ORM: Entity Framework, LINQ, NHibernate  ? Dependency Injection: AutoFac, Unity  ? Scripting Language: Angular JS, Angular 2.0, JQuery, JavaScript  ? Web Service: WCF, Web API  ? O/S: Windows 2000/7/10  ? SharePoint 2010/2013    ? Source Safe Tools: Visual Source Safe 2005, TFS 2010/2012, SVN  ? Map Technology: Google Map, Microsoft Map  ? Cloud Technology: Amazon (S3, EC2, SQS, SDB)  ? External API: Facebook, LinkedIn, Twitter, Netflix API  ? BI Tool: SSRS, SSIS  ? Others: MSMQ, VBA, AJAX, CSS, GPS, VB Script, JSON  ? Continuous Integration Tool: Jenkins, TFS