Software Engineer <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Software Engineer - Digital Artefacts Urbandale, IA Software developer and engineer with 18 years of experience creating interactive applications for museums, corporate environments, trade shows and the web. Artistic eye with a keen ability to communicate with stakeholders, from designers and developers to subject matter experts. Enjoys working with 3D graphics and custom hardware, with interests in Augmented Reality, Virtual Reality and IoT. Work Experience Software Engineer Digital Artefacts - Iowa City, IA October 2017 to Present • Created web applications with React/Redux or Vue/Vuex for teaching science concepts to middle school, high school and undergraduate college students.  • Implemented features for a trucking telematics startup using React/Redux, Pyramid (Python) and PostgreSQL.  • Worked with neuropsychology researchers to provide visualization scoring and report generation for cognitive assessments via a Pyramid portal site using Jinja2 templates. Software Developer / Engineer Applied Art & Technology - Des Moines, IA January 2011 to October 2017 • Developed interactive applications for museums, trade shows and corporate environments. Applications used AngularJS with LoopBack, Sails, or Node/Express and MySQL or SQLite data store and were deployed on touchscreen kiosks and other custom hardware.  • Performed on-site installation of software and hardware, both in museums and at trade shows.  • Provided on-site support for applications and hardware, including including day-to-day exhibit management and customer interaction.  • Assisted with design, specification and estimation for project proposals.  • Crafted VR pre-visualitzions of environments for project proposals using Unity and Oculus Rift.  • Designed a telepresence application for remote assistance using WebRTC. Software Engineer Digital Artefacts - Iowa City, IA September 2001 to January 2011 • Created interactive applications for museums and trade shows as well as providing on-site installation and support.  • Provided proof-of-concept simulation development for companies in the aerospace and defense industries using C/C++ and OpenGL.  • Collaborated with psychology and neuropsychology researchers at university institutions to create driving simulations and cognitive assessments for research with at-risk populations.  • Worked with a team to instrument vehicles and create software to track and assess real world driving performance of research subjects. Education Master of Science in Biomedical Engineering University of Iowa - Iowa City, IA 2001 Bachelor of Science in Biomedical Engineering University of Iowa - Iowa City, IA 1996 Skills Javascript, MySQL, jQuery, HTML 5, CSS, React, jQuery, React, Git, CSS, Git, CSS, HTML 5, Git, jQuery, React, Redux, Vue, Angular, Loopback, Python, Node.js, SQLite, Unity, OpenGL, WebGL, WebRTC, C, C++, Electron, NW.js Links http://linkedin.com/in/rick-vanderleest