Principal Integration Developer/Architect Principal Integration <span class="hl">Developer</span>/Architect Principal Integration Developer/Architect - Symantec Corporation Experienced Enterprise Application Integration (EAI) and Automation Architect and Business process Analyst with  over 10 years of technology industry experience. Designed, delivered innovative business process solutions to attain  the Business goals. Seek opportunities to transform business practices resulting in cost optimization and Business  process improvements & effective operations for the organizations.    Work Authorization Industry Certifications  USA - H1B (Approved I-140) Pursuing MuleSoft Platform Architect/MULE 4  Canada - Permanent Resident Certifications    LinkedIn URL - linkedin.com/in/anujamalkapurkar Work Experience Principal Integration Developer/Architect Symantec Corporation - Mountain View, CA April 2013 to Present • Architect, Design and develop Integration solutions for simplifying Business processes by designing robust and highly scalable & reusable assets and solutions.  • Conduct business workshops to understand functional requirements and transform them into functional and technical design documents to create highly automated applications to attain the business requirement.  • Manage project through status meetings, weekly reports, identifying risks, and tracking issues and providing  timely status reports and analytics to leadership team.  • Collaborate and partner with cross functional IT teams to formulate innovative ideas for resolving inter-application  dependencies while creating Enterprise Application Integration & Automation software.  • Performed Impact analysis and identified risks in implementing innovating solutions for IBM DataPower  replacement with MuleSoft by designing single gateway proxy/business group and minimizing impact to end users and partners and cost savings of 250K/year.  • Rationalizing Middleware Platforms as part of M&A to remove redundancy and cost saving, by consolidating and  replacing Integration platforms. Replaced Talend which was part of BlueCoat acquisitions resulting in cost saving  of 200K/year on Enterprise License.  • Successfully transformed business processes for various segments such as Return merchandise authorization  (RMA), Manufacturing of Symantec Appliances, Case Management and handling of Evidence files, Automation of the Digital Key delivery for Consumer Business Unit. Sr. IT Developer Selectiva System Inc - San Jose, CA January 2013 to April 2013 Perform market analysis and use industry standard for various middleware technologies such as MuleSoft, Oracle  SOA and TIBCO for application integration for Selectiva.  • Highly focused on Cost savings aspects by exploring Open Source software for the Organization.  • Prepare project implementation plan and Technical design document as per the requirements. Sr. Integration Developer TIBCO Software - Mumbai, Maharashtra September 2010 to December 2011 Lead TIBCO Professional Services Group's development team for client interaction for requirement analysis, system design and implementation phases of the project. Architect functional and technical design of the system  by utilizing industry best practices and core knowledge of TIBCO Suite of product used for Enterprise Application  Integrations.  • Oversee smooth implementation and testing of the application and extend post go-live support as required.  • Actively involved in Pre-Sales activities by driving the technical presentations and demos of the new products to the end Customer of TIBCO Software Professional Services Team.  • Build various Business interfaces and API's using TIBCO Business Works & its components and provide technical  support during release cycles. Sr. Software Developer Accenture - Mumbai, Maharashtra April 2010 to August 2010 Developed business process using TIBCO Product suite. Defined, managed, and co-ordinate on the Business  processes automations using TIBCO Business Works and other TIBCO technologies.  • Implemented complex transformation logics using TIBCO Business works XPATH functionality.  • Coordination with cross-functional teams to identify systems dependencies and implement required changes as appropriate.  • Provide QA/UAT and post production support for TIBCO Integrations. Software Developer AtoS - Mumbai, Maharashtra October 2007 to April 2010 • Provide client support for requirement analysis and effort estimation.  • Create TIBCO Interfaces and other technical artefacts such as EAR files with the help of TIBCO Designer and perform code deployment using TIBCO Administrator.  • Creation of logical test cases for unit testing and integration testing.  • Preparation of Technical design documents based on the functional specifications.  • Conducted Training sessions for the Test Team members for identifying the Logical Test Cases  • Used TIBCO Administrator to manage TIBCO Components, to monitor and manage deployments.  • Peer review of code and design deliverables.    Applications & Other Skills Project Management Skills  TIBCO BusinessWorks, TIBCO Designer, TIBCO Agile Scrum  Administrator, TIBCO Hawk, TIBCO Enterprise JIRA/Confluence  Messaging Service Project Planning & Execution  MuleSoft Anypoint Studio, MuleSoft Anypoint Microsoft Visio  Platform Microsoft Project  TIBCO Managed File Transfer Microsoft Excel  Automation Anywhere Enterprise RPA Change Management/Release Management  Service Oriented, Object Oriented Architecture  JAVA, PL/SQL, C/C++, Python, C#, Shell/PowerShell  SOAP HTTPs, SOAP JMS, REST JSON, WSDL, WADL  XML, XSD, XPath, XSLT, RAML, YAML  Oracle DB/ MS SQL Server Education Bachelor of Technology in Electronics & Communications Engineering S.N.D.T. University - Mumbai, Maharashtra Links http://linkedin.com/in/anujamalkapurkar