Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer - DB New York, NY ? 12+ years of IT experience in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) such as Requirement Gathering, Planning, Analysis, Design, Implementation, Testing and Maintenance in domains like Finance, Learning Management System(LMS), Content Management System(CMS), etc.,  ? Intensive work on rich user interface development using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, AngularJS, XML and JSON upon various server-side technologies like PHP.  ? Experienced in a fast-paced Agile Development Environment including Test-Driven Development (TDD) and Scrum.  ? Experienced in PHP Full Stack Development in a LAMP environment, building highly scalable web apps and providing optimized solutions for web applications  ? Proficient in PHP Design Patterns like Model View Controller (MVC), etc.,  ? Strong in Object Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD), ERD documentation, UML artifacts modeling.  ? Very Strong in Object-oriented programming (OOP) concepts.  ? Integration of payment gateways like PayPal, EBS, CCAvenue, etc.,  ? Good working knowledge of Amazon Web Services like EC2, Azure, etc.,  ? Extensive experience in developing PHP based Web Services to expose useful functionality to web users through SOAP / REST describing them using WSDL.  ? Implementation of components and wire-frames using cross-browser compatible CSS, JavaScript, AngularJs, JQuery and AJAX.  ? Made use of AngularJS concepts like Scopes, Models, Services, Dependency Injection, and Routing.  ? Skills in optimizing Responsive Web design using CSS media queries and bootstrap.  ? Experience in database related work at Optimizing the MySQL Queries, primarily creating complex stored procedures, Views, Triggers, Functions, using MySQL.  ? Developed custom plugins in WordPress and customized existing plugins by creating add-on plugins.  ? Hands on Experience in Parsing the XML, HTML DOM using XPath expressions/queries.  ? Basic Knowledge in Shell Scripting.  ? Worked on IDE's such as visual studio code, Eclipse, Adobe Dreamweaver CS 5.5, Net Beans, JetBrains PhpStrom for developing, deploying and debugging the applications.  ? Excellent Written, Analytical Skills, Verbal Communication skills with a customer service oriented attitude and worked with the offshore team as onsite coordinator to provide the update on the daily basis.  ? well versed with latest PHP frameworks like Laravel, Symfony, Codeignitor.  ? Good Knowledge of using Adobe Photoshop for designing. Work Experience Software Developer Deutsche bank November 2017 to Present Project Title: USAXIOM/ RCL  Description:  Developed application for the bank Regulatory reporting application. Developed report for various schedules IHC, DBNY and RAL. Work closely with functional analysts for gathering requirement. Worked on developing automating workflow similar to axiom SL software. Implemented Bootstrap UI for responsive layout. Worked on importing data using AXIOM SL. Created graphs using Tableau. Show demo to stack holders and end users. Deployed code in different environment. Refine stored procedure, functions, triggers and SQL queries. Developed schema and table structure in oracle as per the requirement. Developed Adjustment Module in Angular 4. Developed Adjustment Application in Reactjs. Implemented Jest as a unit test case development and sonarqube as a coding standard. Developed Spring Boot Backend APIs for the frontend.    Responsibilities:  • Used LAMP (Linux, Apache, Oracle, Axiom SL and PHP) architecture to develop the tools.  • worked on Laravel framework.  • Worked on Reactjs, Nodejs and Angularjs.  • Implemented jest framework for unit test case development.  • Implemented sonarqube for coding standard.  • Coordinate and troubleshoot daily operation of the tools.  • Designed and developed database with normalization techniques.  • Managed code in different servers and deployed the code in staging and production servers  Environment:  Reactjs, Angularjs, Nodejs, Laravel, JAVA, Spring Boot, Oracle, AXIOM SL, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, GIT. Sr. Software Developer Toolipro /QUALISINFOTECH March 2015 to June 2017 Project Title: Toolipro  URL: https://toolipro.com  Description:  Developed IPhone/android application for the buyer and seller with admin in laravel. Buyer can post the requirement with his budget and other details. Seller accept the job and on completion of job buyer pays using paypal Braintree. Developed web service and backend developed using Laravel, Mysql and JWT Auth.Create Database design and workflow of the application.    Responsibilities:  • Used LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL and PHP) architecture to develop the tools.  • Active participation in the complete Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including requirements  • definition, design, programming / testing and implementation of major systems.  • Setup Dev, Stg and Prod environment (MEAN and LAMP ) on EC2 instance of AWS.  • Installed SSL Certificates in Linux servers.  • Coordinate and troubleshoot daily operation of the tools.  • Perform backups, upgrades, and enhancements to the tool.  • Designed and developed database with normalization techniques.  • Used CURL scripts extensively to communicate with different servers.  • Managed the Linux server and configure Cron Jobs.  • Responsible for maintenance of database on server, Backup and Restore of database in MySQL.  • Managed servers and deployed the code in staging and production servers using custom scripts.  • Use JWT Auth for iphone and android token based web service.  • Create Restful API for the mobile application using laravel.  Environment:  LAMP and MEAN Environment, Laravel, IOS, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Nodejs, Angularjs, Express, Firebase, MongoDB Bootstrap, PhpStrom, GIT.    Client: Daytwo /QUALISINFOTECH  Role: Sr. Software Developer /Lead  Project Title: daytwo  URL: https://daytwo.com  Description:  Developed daytwo application in drupal. Transform whole application to CMS. Created a custom responsive theme with new UI. Created custom module for the funnel module. Implemented sign up process with mailchimp automated group assignment. Deploy on google cloud server.  Responsibilities:  • Used LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL and PHP) architecture to develop the tools.  • Involved in Analysis, design, development and implementation of drupal  • Involved in Drupal8 Application Setup activities and customized the apps to match the functional needs of the organization.  • Worked closely with marketing team and business analysts to perform detailed analysis of business and technical requirements and to design the solution by customizing various standard objects of drupal.  • created requirement document based on requirement analysis.  • coordinate with client for enhancement and change request.  • Lead development and site building on drupal -based projects. Mentor junior developers on site building and development best practices.  • Worked with views and themes in Drupal.  • Creation of menus, pages, templates, blocks in Drupal.    Environment:  LAMP, Drupal8, HTML, CSS, JavaScript.    Client: chargebar/ QUALISINFOTECH  Role: Sr. Software Developer /Lead  Project Title: chargebar  URL: https://chargebar.com.au  Description:  Developed chargebar application in wordpress as client need to transform whole application completely into user-friendly and futuristic website. Integrated admin with their inventory management, subscription and help desk system to the website. Created custom plugin for their payment module as there are two options for payment rent or full payment with two payment gateway. As per requirement created custom module with, first installment to go with eway payment gateway while rest amount will be auto recurring using ezdebit payment gateway. Deploy application on AWS instance.  Responsibilities:  • Created Project plan and assessed work-effort estimates required to accomplish various phases of the Project.  • Effectively communicated the project goals, requirements and deliverables through clear, concise and comprehensive SOW presentation to the key project stakeholders.  • Provide functional and technical support and guidance for the development of the Websites based on PHP-MySQL.    Environment:  LAMP, wordpress, HTML, CSS, JavaScript. Sr. Software Developer Riteaid - Exton, PA April 2012 to February 2015 Project Title: single check rebate  URL: https://riteaid.com  Description:  Riteaid is a pharmaceutical company and want to develop a rebate application for their customer. Display rewards according to customer points. Implemented single sign on (SSO) as a service provider and identity provider both. User can schedule his/her appointment to laboratory (Quest diagnostic) using SAML assertion. This application made from codeigniter and MSSQL.    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in Agile project planning, backlog grooming and daily scrums.  ? Mentored and assisted other team members as lead developer.  ? Review other team members code and approve their pull requests.  ? Used IIS for local development.  ? Created unit tests using PHPUnit and selenium.  ? Implemented new pages on basis of PSD mockups.  ? Worked on SQL queries, Triggers, Joins, Views, and Constraints etc.  ? implemented continuous integration using PHPundercontrol.  ? Developed application using codeignitor MVC frame work.  ? Optimize the pages and queries so that the web pages load faster.  ? Used SVN for Code Management.  Environment:  LAMP Environment, IIS, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Drupal7, Codeignitor, Bootstrap, PhpStrom, GIT. Sr. Software Engineer Truevalue - Exton, PA October 2010 to March 2012 Project Title: Truevalue  Description:  Truevalue is Hardware store where customer can purchases in store and online.Create a rebate system for the client, User can put his purchase details generate a barcode and send hardcopy to the store. User purchased validate against the barcode by admin and if every thing matches his rebate processed.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in design and development of the portal.  • Designed Database and implemented all the models.  • Developed dash board front page using Bootstrap and HTML5  • Developed application using codeignitor MVC frame work.  • Experienced with implementing different options cURL and authentication types and techniques.  Environment:  PHP, MySQL, LAMP Environment, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Codeignitor, Twitter Bootstrap.    URL: http://www.theelectriconline.com/  Description:  Developed e commerce application for the client using magento 1.9. Implemented custom search for the catalog. Created extension to import bulk product and images. Implemented responsive theme for mobile and tablet device.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in design and development of the portal.  • Integrated Payment gateway from CCAvenue.  • Designed Database and implemented all the models.  • developed custom modules using Magento Framework.  Environment:  PHP, Magento, MySQL, LAMP Environment, Amazon EC2, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, SVN. Sr.PHP Developer GlobalOrange /SILVERTOUCH February 2009 to October 2010 Project Title: Trip planner  Description:  TripPlanner is an internet application for planning a holiday trip for users in Google Map, The Key factors of application are: Get directions, View hotels, events, activities, car rental locations etc. on map, Deep linking to order the products above, Plan multiple stops, possibly full route of holiday. The site will be multilingual: English, Dutch, German, French. This application is developed under Symfony MVC framework and Google Map API.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in design and development of the portal.  • Created a development environment using AWS Web services like EC2 and S3  • Designed Database and implemented all the models.  • Developed dash board front page using Bootstrap and HTML5  Environment:  PHP, PostgreSQL, LAMP Environment, Symfony, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Twitter Bootstrap, PhpStrom, GIT. Sr. Software Engineer Bunge /LIONBRIDGE April 2008 to February 2009 URL:: www.farmetrics.com  Description:  This application is for prediction of cultivation based on farmer feedback. Farmers can take a part in a contest and win the points based on their prediction. This application is based on struts 1.1 and Mysql as a backend. Data fetching are implemented by DAO design pattern.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in design and development of the Application.  • Designed Database and implemented all the models.  • Implemented custom modules using struts Framework.  • Developing new Lab Tools for Lab Tools Suite  • Setup Dev, Stg and Prod environment on Linux Environment.  • Coordinate and trouble-shoot daily operation of the tools.  • Worked on SQL queries, Triggers, Joins, Views, and Constraints etc.  • Designed and developed database with normalization techniques using MySQL.  Environment:  J2EE Environment, servlet MSSQL, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, SVN. Software Engineer Bicycleretailer /RISHBHSOFTWARE December 2006 to March 2008 URL: www.bicycleretailer.com  Description:  This application allow user to use the news, event, poll, purchase virtual product as well as physical product. User can subscribe for magazine, news paper published by bicycle retailer. User Can also search with different permutation and combination like "*","+","AND", "OR"," NOT" and also with the wild card character like "?" and "-".user can view calendar with facility to add daily, weekly, yearly events we have used php bb as third party tool for forum. In admin section admin can manage users, banner .admin has a facility to upload image and flash animation for ad zone. Admin can view the survey add survey question and answer from the admin section.  Responsibilities:  • Analyzing the requirements stories and help Business Team prioritize them  • Involved in design and development of the portal.  • Used PHP on LAMP Environment.  • Involved in Report Generation.  • Involved in Database design and implementation in MySQL.  Environment:  PHP, MySQL, LAMP Environment, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Eclipse IDE (Aptana Studio), SVN. Skills FIREBASE, Git, JAVASCRIPT, REACTJS, JSON Additional Information Skill Set  Operating System: Windows, Linux, OSX  Web Technologies: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, JSON, XML, YAML  Scripting: PHP, JAVA, Shell Scripting, XPath  Database: MySQL, MSSQL,PostgreSQL, MongoDB, Firebase  JS: Jquery, Nodejs, Reactjs and Angularjs  Frameworks: Laravel Framework, Symfony Framework, Codeignitor, Magento  IDE & Tools: Notepad++, Eclipse, Aptana Studio, PhpStrom, Dreamweaver  Debugging Tools: Firebug, Chrome Developers Tool  Version Controls: SVN, GIT  CMS: Wordpress, Drupal