Senior Software Developer Senior <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Software Developer - Barclays Colorado Springs, CO Work Experience Senior Software Developer Barclays September 2008 to Present Solutions Engineer for many projects. Responsibilities include architecting  high level designs, working with relevant teams to ensure continuity between different functional areas, supporting Agile teams completing the work, and  working with business leads and project managers to ensure the projects  completed successfully.  ? Building new functionality for credit card acquisition and servicing web sites.  ? Technical lead for projects with high profile partners. Duties included  working with partner technology teams to aid integration into the Barclays  system, dividing Barclays technology work among developers, and building  partner specific functionality.  ? Refactoring existing acquisition and servicing systems into a new Service  Oriented Architecture to enable simpler maintenance, better performance, and simplify future growth.  ? Writing Apache HTTP Server configurations.  ? Agile software development.  ? Technologies include Java, Spring, Hibernate, Web Services, REST, Apache,  Tomcat, WebLogic, Oracle Database, Eclipse, and Netbeans. Custom Software and Web Site Developer/Business Owner Self Employed/KRM Technologies May 2005 to December 2008 Building a DrumBeat Continuous Integration client using Eclipse Plugin/Java  technologies.  ? Working with a customer to design and implement a financial web site using  PHP, MySQL, HTML, and JavaScript. The site involves many financial  calculations and runs over a secure connection (SSL).  ? Working with small businesses to design and develop web sites on a budget.  Skills used are generally HTML, CSS, JavaScript, PHP and image editing. Senior Software Developer Verizon Business January 2007 to September 2008 through TAC Worldwide)  ? Building new functionality for Verizon Business' ticket managing system.  ? Creating Web Service clients to interact with other systems within Verizon  Business.  ? Technologies include Java, C++, WebLogic, Oracle Database, and Eclipse. Business Owner Self Employed March 2003 to May 2005 Owner of a concrete statuary business.  ? Computer related responsibilities include development and maintenance of website, creating marketing materials, and bookkeeping.  ? Other responsibilities include managing a team of employees, delivering  products to customers in a timely manner (time management), marketing,  business development, and customer relations. Senior Software Developer Federal Express July 2004 to April 2005 through Eagle Systems Technology)  ? Designing and implementing a web interface used to create and maintain  TIBCO functionality across multiple Java Messaging Servers.  ? Created website to maintain access control for TIBCO JMS's using Java  technologies including Servlets and JSP's. Senior Software Developer Self Employed November 2001 to March 2003 Maintaining and consulting for existing software systems.  ? Design and building a high traffic review website using Java Servlets and JSP  technology. The system runs on Tomcat and interacts with a MySQL  database.  ? Designed and developed two low cost/low traffic websites for small  businesses using mainly HTML and JavaScript. Senior Software Developer ElliptiCom Technologies Inc January 2000 to November 2001 Designed a website to allow businesses in the construction industry to negotiate contracts between buyers and sellers.  ? Designed and developed a server interface to an online Internet entertainment  guide.  ? Designed and developed pieces of a major e-Commerce website selling  kitchen items.  ? Designed and managed the development of a B2B website for a major  database company to sell software to partner vendors.  ? Developed pieces of a B2C website for a major automotive parts seller. Senior Software Developer MCI March 1997 to January 2000 Worked with a team to design and develop a call center traffic management  system using Java Applets running in a web browser that communicated with server processes written in C++ running on Solaris servers.  ? Designed a call-flow editing tool. The tool would use COM/ActiveX objects  running on a Windows system. Software Developer August 1996 to March 1997 Independent Contractor  ? Developed features for a CAD program using Visual C++, MFC, and an  Access database on Windows NT and 95.  ? Created a pension tracking software package with a team of developers using  PowerBuilder and an Access Database on Windows 95.  ? Developed new features for a nationally utilized promotion management  program using PowerBuilder and Sybase Database on Window 95. Lead Developer Compass Solutions, Inc November 1995 to August 1996 Application used to organize and analyze Point of Sale data using  PowerBuilder on Windows 95.  ? Custom contact manager software using PowerBuilder on Windows 95.  ? Program used to track company-inclusive paging equipment using  PowerBuilder on Windows 95. Software Developer MarketWare Corporation August 1993 to November 1995 Worked with a team of programmers to create a CAD/spreadsheet package  using C++ on Windows 3.11.  ? Designed and developed a commercial database editor using C++ on  Windows 3.11.  ? Supervised the development of a commercial image capture/editing program.  ? Managed and negotiated high profile software implementation/data collection  projects.  ? Digital Photographer: Captured and manipulated images using a variety of hardware and software.  ? Desktop Publisher: Designed custom presentations for customers in the space  management industry. Independent Contractor September 1992 to August 1993 Responsibilities included initial meetings with clients, training the new users,  recruiting and hiring people to work on the projects, traveling all over the  United States.  ? Worked on strategic software implementation projects. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science University of California - Davis, CA 1992 Skills JAVA (10+ years), ORACLE (10+ years), WEBLOGIC (10+ years), TOMCAT (10+ years), SQL (10+ years), Agile (7 years) Certifications/Licenses Certified Java Developer Additional Information ? Skills  ? Java/J2EE, Hibernate, Spring.  ? REST, Web Services.  ? C, C++, HTML, Cascading Style Sheets, JavaScript, PHP.  ? Oracle, MySQL.  ? UNIX (Linux, FreeBSD), macOS, Windows.  ? Apache Web Server. Application Servers: Tomcat, WebLogic.  ? AWS  ? Agile Development, SDLC.  ? Managing development teams, Solutions engineer.  ? Eclipse, Netbeans.  ? Troubleshooting issues.  ? Software design and OOD.