Database Developer Database <span class="hl">Developer</span> Boca Raton, FL Experienced MS SQL Server Developer with over 20 years of accomplishments in analysis, design, coding,  implementation and training. Background in the Healthcare, Insurance, Banking, and Manufacturing  industries. Knowledgeable in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC). Quick to adapt to new  tools and concepts. Skilled as an independent worker, or as a team member to achieve goals. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Developer HCA Healthcare - Sunrise, FL May 2005 to Present Sunrise, FL - May 2005 - Current  • Designed and developed reports for Finance, Credentialing, Staffing and Recruiting systems.  • Automated Billing tasks reducing Invoicing turnaround time considerably.  • Developed dashboards for Senior Management with KPIs from multiple data sources that facilitated  informed decisions and an increase of the hospitals' fill rate.  • Converted data from Staffing and Credentialing legacy systems into new web application - Erecruit.  • Performed SQL DBA Admin tasks.  • Utilized Microsoft SQL Server 2017 tools and concepts - SSRS/SSIS. Software Developer Consultant Citicorp - Fort Lauderdale, FL August 2001 to September 2003 Designed and implemented enhancements for various applications, which consisted of a front end  built on NT and Websphere platforms (Java servlets/beans, IBM MQ Series, SQL Server, DB2). The  backend is built on a OS390 platform (CICS, DB2, Cobol, VSAM, IBM MQ Series); This assignment  involved heavy interaction with users in South America. Wrote documentation and test scripts for User Acceptance Testing.  • Utilized IBM MQ Series, Cobol, DB2, CICS, MS SQL Server, Windows NT, Java, IBM JCL and Utilities, Software Developer Consultant JM Family Enterprises - Deerfield Beach, FL September 2002 to March 2003 • Worked on the Lease Archive Project, which consisted of archiving accounts off the system for better performance and also to cut costs on CPU time and DASD allocation.  • Duties included: implementation of user requirements and change of application scope; test  environment preparation; coding; unit testing; impact assessment on other applications; system  integrated testing and user acceptance testing. Prepared documentation for the Support Team and monitored production run.  • Utilized DB2, CICS, Cobol, TSO, MVS, IBM JCL and utilities, ASG-ZEKE(Scheduling System), SAS. Application Developer Seisint - Boca Raton, FL March 2000 to August 2001 designed and coded Clarion programs and applications using  object-oriented programming concepts. Wrote programs and processes for data retrieval and customization using Clarion, SQL queries and stored procedures. Wrote applications for the  company's various systems, integrated with middleware software, Sybase and Windows APIs.  • Utilized Clarion, SQL, Sybase, XML, Windows 2000/NT/98, Windows API, Object-oriented  Programming, Multi-threading, RAD Tools.    Page 1 / 2  561-289-9489 | marcos.aurelius.silva@gmail.com | Boca Raton, FL Software Developer American Express - Miramar, FL March 1998 to March 2000 Miramar, FL- March 1998 - March 2000  • Triumph Account Conversion: Converted credit card accounts from Legacy Systems into a new  centralized system containing all credit card products. Designed and programmed the conversion  application, which consisted of extracting and mapping the accounts to be converted and purging  them from the legacy systems; Responsible for creating/maintaining the test environment and managing program versions according to various releases.  • Y2K Project: Coordinated a team of programmers and analysts at the Offshore Development  Center in Madras, India. Wrote scripts for system testing and helped to fine tune the test  environment. Debugged programs to find out concepts and functionality of the applications.  Performed code reviews.  • Utilized IBM Mainframe, IBM JCL and utilities, Cobol, IMS DB, CICS, Expediter, DB2, QMF, File Aid,  VSAM, Jobtrac, QA Hyperstation, Changeman. Software Developer Consultant Bristol-Myers Squibb - Stamford, CT November 1993 to March 1998 • Performed system analysis, design and programming for the Manufacturing System.  • Customized an ASI Manufacturing System to meet the company's needs.  • Developed and maintained the Physical Inventory Application.  • Provided on-call and on-site support for production flow.  • Developed FTP processes to transfer data from mainframe to other platforms. Coded JCL  procedures and wrote Operation Manuals.  • Utilized Cobol, CICS, DB2, QMF, SQL, IBM JCL and Utilities, SAS, DYL280, Microsoft Access, Lotus  1-2-3, IMS/DLI, Intertest, WSF2, ERD, CA-7. Education Bachelor's in Computer Science SESAT - Rio de Janeiro, Brazil Skills Data mining (10+ years), Data warehousing (1 year), Database (10+ years), Database design (10+ years), ETL (10+ years), Ibm mainframe (10+ years), Microsoft sql server (10+ years), SQL (10+ years), SSRS (10+ years), SSIS (8 years), T-SQL (10+ years), DB2, SSMS (10+ years), Sql Server, Sql Database, TSQL