Sr. Software Developer Sr.<span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Software Developer - Total Bank Solutions Hackensack, NJ • 9+years of experience in designing, developing, and testing n-Tier Client/Server Web-based Applications using Microsoft .NET Framework and SQL Server with Agile and Waterfall Development Methodology.  • Developed website using ASP.NET MVC, C#, WCF and WEB API  • Outstanding .Net Full- Stack Developer with proven expertise in all phases of SDLC.  • Expert in Microsoft Technologies like C#, ASP.NET MVC 5.0/4.0, Entity Framework ADO.NET, SQL Server WCF 4.5/4.0, Web API RESTful Services, IIS.  • Expert in working with Web API, WCF, consuming and building SOAP based services and REST API's.  • Expert in developing data layer using Entity Framework, ASP.NET, and LINQ.  • Expert in RDBMS include SQL Server and Oracle 11g.  • Strong experience in developing SQL queries, functions, stored procedures, triggers, and views.  • Proficient in storing and exchanging data using XML and JSON formats.  • Experience in designing and implementing Single Page Application with AngularJS.  • Extensive experience in developing UI screens using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript.  • Strong ability in Responsive Web Design using JQuery, AJAX, Bootstrap.  • Proven ability in reports development and business intelligence solution using SSRS and SSIS.  • Excellent experience in OOPS like Abstract Class, Interface, and Design Patterns.  • Experienced in MVC and MVVM design pattern.  • Strong experience in Test-driven Development using MS Unit Testing and NUnit.  • Knowledge of deploying and implementing Cloud solutions using Microsoft Azure/AWS.  • Knowledge of using Continuous Integration / Continuous Deployment (CI-CD) tools as Jenkins.  • Experience in version control with Git and TFS.  • Experience in bug tracking, issue tracking using Jira.  • Self-motivated team player with a passion for solving analytical problems and thirst for new technologies. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Software Developer Total Bank Solutions - Hackensack, NJ March 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Designing and development of web forms of the e-Clearinghouse using ASP .NET Web and custom controls.  • Involved in analysis, Design and coding for the Windows based Intranet application.  • Implemented SOA using Microsoft web services.  • Created View models and wrote client side validations using JQuery.  • Worked on the enhancement of the application focusing majorly on ASP .NET, JavaScript, JQuery based on the requirements from the business.  • Leading the team for successful implementation of this application in a timely manner.  • Developed Server side programming and GUI using C#, ASP .NET.  • Used performance-tuning techniques to reduce garbage collection times with the help of CLR profiling.  • Form Design and Coding for Facet Extension.  • Used C#, ADO.Net, HTML, XML, Visual Studio Tools, Web Forms, Oracle, SQL Server, etc.  • Implemented Integration between Extension and Facets.  • Designed and developed application in a MVC design pattern that converts database views to hierarchical XML documents which are then streamed to the ASP presentation layer.  • Responsible for designing ASP .NET application authentication using .NET framework, model view controller MVC4, and IIS security model.  • Modifications were made to the existing GUI using WPF for better look and feel.  • Developed runtime animations using MS Silverlight and WPF. Used threading for operation to insert record simultaneously.  • Performed Unit testing to ensure the application functioned as per the design and requirement.  • Designed and Developed Web forms using ASP .NET, XML and XSL.  • Used ASP .NET Server Controls and HTML, DHTML controls to design the web pages.  • Used ADO .NET Object Model to Interact with SQL Server Database using C#.  • Designed and developed application in a MVC design pattern that converts database views to hierarchical XML documents which are then streamed to the ASP presentation layer using ASP .NET.  • Developed the SQL Server Stored Procedures, Views and User-Defined Functions that are required for the application in MS SQL Server.    Environment: Visual Studio, .NET Framework 3.0, IIS, SQL Server, WCF, MS SQL Server Management Studio 2008, MS Source Safe, Entity Framework, Database, Windows Server, HTML, XML, XSLT, AJAX, WSB, XSLT, SharePoint, TFS, Agile Methodology, Smart Client Technology. Software Developer UnitedHealth Group - Minnetonka, MN December 2016 to February 2018 Responsibilities:  • Designed and implemented the web application framework using .NET Framework 4.5.  • Involved in analyzing requirements for application. Extensively involved in reporting table structures and web forms based front end.  • Extensively used Themes, Skins and ASP .NET, AJAX and jQuery to provide a rich  UI experience.  • Code optimization for batch jobs to load data into Facet Database.  • Created Parent Group/Group / Sub Group through Facet - Subscriber / Member -Parent Group/Group/Sub Group Application.  • Created Subscriber / Member Records through Facet Subscriber/Members - Enrollment Application.  • Created Claims through the Facet Claims Processing Application  • Developed reusable Data Access Layer and Business logic layer using C# and ADO .NET.  • Used ADO .NET objects for data retrieval and database updates.  • Build, configure, and deployed network distributed services by using WCF and Web Services. Designed and developed the various user interfaces for the application using WPF.  • Extensive use of Java Script and Cascading Style Sheets for formatting front end.  • Developed Stored Procedures and insert data into database.  • Created and tested highly complex back-end scripts, stored procedures, and triggers.  • Client-side validation of pages done in JQuery and validation controls were  incorporated for server-side validation.  • Worked in Agile development environment with frequently changing requirements  and features set.  • Created panels and sub panels based on the change orders for the healthcare website. Also performed UAT testing and documented the same for further approval.  • Worked on defects related to the panel EDI Claims, finance and TPL.  • Debug the coding defects, validated the fixes and closed the bugs  accordingly.  • Actively involved with Business Analysis and Systems Analysis in the creation  of Use Cases, Process Flowcharts and Component Diagrams using MS Visio.  • Enhanced performance of the application and system through put issues, using  tools like SQL Performance Tuning Wizard.  • Used Team Foundation Server for Version Control.    Environment: .NET framework 4.5, ASP .NET, MVC5, MS-Visual Studio 2015, C#, JavaScript, JQuery, AngularJS, ADO .NET, Entity Framework, SQL Server 2014, WCF, HTML5, Agile, Win Forms, Web Services, XML, TFS, IIS. Full Stack Developer NET MVC - Teaneck, NJ September 2015 to November 2016 Responsibilities:  • Developed Business Tier using C# 5.0 to implement classes and methods for business logic.  • Designed, developed, and enhanced the application using .NET Framework 4.0 and MVC 4.  • Developed views with strongly typed view models, helpers and partial views using ASP .NET MVC 4 to display required news and data on Dow-Sync's Display section.  • Worked on UI layer using AngularJS, HTML5, CSS3, and Bootstrap to build rich, flexible and user interactive web pages.  • Created and consumed Web API RESTful for building Service-Oriented Application.  • Consumed WCF service with HTTP and SOAP protocol and maintained existing web services.  • Used SQL Server 2014 as data repository, used LINQ to SQL together with Entity Framework 6.0 writing data access classes, stored procedures, triggers, views to capture and modify data.  • Used SignalR to manage real-time data and enhance chat function for Messaging section.  • Used RequireJS JavaScript library to dynamically load ASP.NET bundles.  • Used Dow-Chat as prototype, designed and implemented functions of messaging section.  • Performed unit testing using MSTest for testing of business layer objects like methods, classes.  • Published and deployed Dow-Sync and services through Azure.  • Used Git for version control across common source code used by developers.    Environment: .NET Framework 4.0, Visual Studio 2015, C# 5, ASP.NET 4.0, MVC 4, Entity Framework 6.0, SQL Server 2012, LINQ, RESTful API, WCF 4.0, SignalR, HTML5, CSS3, AngularJS 1.3/1.4, AJAX, JQuery, Bootstrap, JSON, MSTest, Azure, Agile, Git Software Developer Realogy Holdings Corp - Madison, NJ May 2013 to August 2015 Responsibilities:  • Design application architecture, design and code reviews.  • Developed Web GUI for Web Forms, Master Pages, and User Controls using web controls, C# .NET and server-side AJAX script manager under Visual Studio .NET environment.  • Designed the web pages using ASP.NET 3.5, HTML, and Telerik controls, JavaScript, AJAX, XML and CSS.  • Used TFS Team Foundation Server for Version control, Source code control and project tracking.  • Developed Web Forms, custom controls for header and footer, standardize menus.  • Used Master Pages for branding purposes by displaying the logo and copyright information on every page and maintaining the same look and feel across the entire application.  • Involved Unit Testing and Integration testing identified performance issues and solved.  • Working with XMLs schemes, parsing web services.  • Use Window azure to deploy the application on cloud and managing the session.  • Creating Tabular, Charts and graphs as per customer requirements Using SSRS.  • Worked on querying data and creating on-demand reports using Report Builder in SSRS reports and send the reports via email.  • Developed Web services to read and send messages from one system to other system.  • Root cause analysis and fixing the IIS Web Server Related issues.  • Develop systems using .NET components and implemented the Data Access layers using ADO.NET. Used ADO .NET objects such as data reader, data adapter and dataset for consistent access of the data from data layer.  • Develop stored procedures, functions, triggers using SQL and T-SQL in SQL Server 2008 for fetching data and binding.  • Written client-side validation scripts in JavaScript language and extensively used JQuery.  • Worked on views, common shared views for user interface using JQuery and JSON.    Environment: Visual Studio .NET, C# .NET, ASP .NET, ADO .NET, LINQ, XML, SQL Server 2012, TFS, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, JSON, NUnit, Web services, IIS. Software Developer SPS Commerce - Minneapolis, MN June 2011 to April 2013 Responsibilities:  • We are looking for individuals who are interested in building high performance, complex applications using the latest technology stack, and are willing to learn.  • EDGE systems continue to be adopted by more teams across multiple business areas. The platforms are growing and evolving.  • As a developer on the EDGE team, you will have opportunities to design, solution engineer and build the next generation applications for our clients in a flexible and team-work oriented environment  • This role also offers the opportunity to work directly with various senior stakeholder across Divisions and their Business sponsors. Software Developer ALK Technologies - Princeton, NJ July 2009 to May 2011 Responsibilities:  • Architect, design, development and maintenance of key systems and features  • Manage full stack development lifecycle in a scrum/agile environment  • Experience with content management, learning management systems  • Build high availability, high volume, customer facing digital products and platforms  • Collaborates and pairs with product owners, UI/ UX, engineering to create secure, reliable, scalable software solutions  • Defines Service Level Objectives for product to constantly measure their reliability in production and help prioritize backlog work Education Bachelor's bachelor Skills .NET (5 years), ADO (4 years), ADO.Net (3 years), ASP (5 years), C# (5 years), CSS. (2 years), HTML (3 years), JavaScript (5 years), JQuery. (5 years), MICROSOFT SSRS (2 years), MS ADO (3 years), MS SQL Server. (5 years), NUnit (2 years), SQL (5 years), SQL Server (5 years), testing (5 years), UI (4 years), Unit testing (4 years), user interface (6 years), XML (4 years), Linux, jQuery, PHP, MySQL, Android, Git, HTML 5 Certifications/Licenses Driver's License