Software Developer Consultant <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Consultant Contract Programming History Winnetka, CA Summary of Skills:   Real-time embedded C software developer of commercial products, ranging from hardware level programming to system level architecture and front-end design and programming. Strong C, creative problem solver, with the ability to focus on the project goals, adapt as needed to meet the milestones and deliver a well-tested product on time. Experienced in agile development, leading and contributing to small to medium teams.     Languages: C, C++, Assembler, Java, Python, Perl, Robot Framework, SNMP    Processors: Power PC, x86, ARM, Cypress, Atmel, Sharc, M68360, i960, 65C816    Operating Systems: VxWorks, Nucleus, ThreadX, embOS, Windows, Linux, Unix, OS/2 Work Experience Software Developer Consultant STORM KING MOUNTAIN - Camarillo, CA 2018 to Present Software Developer. Aerial Incendiary Devices. Real time embedded programming of motor- driven incendiary devices used to manage forests fires and perform forest land management from the air. Used in Australia and the USA. User interface design and development, and driver level development. GPS. GNU. C. ARM. SPI. I2C. Software Developer Consultant INTEGER HOLDINGS - Valencia, CA 2017 to 2018 Medical Devices. Designed and developed wireless charging system for medical grade batteries. Real-time embedded graphical user interface design and development. FT811 LCD driver level development. GNU. C. ARM. SPI. I2C. Software Developer Consultant CANOGA-PERKINS - Chatsworth, CA 2006 to 2017 Telecom. Designed and developed the 9145E family of managed Ethernet Network Interface Device products. Gigabit, 10 Gigabit, 100 Gigabit. TCP/IP. SNMP. LTE. Real-time embedded application architecture and user interface design and development. Power PC. VxWorks. Nucleus. ThreadX. Diab. GNU. C. CVS. GIT. TL9000 conformance. Responsible for full product development life cycle. Software Developer Consultant HEART TRANSVERTER 2005 to 2006 Power Inverter. Real-time programming for control and monitoring of power. JBuilder2006 Java. USB. Embedded Cypress assembler. Responsible for the development and testing of Java cross-platform applications to monitor and control real-time power distribution. Programmed GUI in Java and programmed USB driven remote user panel using Cypress microcontroller. Software Developer Consultant BELL SERVICES WEST - Chatsworth, CA 2003 to 2005 Telecom. Real-time signal processing. Tone detection. DSP. C. Monitored 96 analog phone lines and performed tone detection in real time using A/D board and 2.0 gigahertz Pentium board. Used in 911 emergency call centers to detect problems with the phone lines. Applied fuzzy logic using C to decode DTMF and MF digits. Software Developer Consultant INVENSYS METERING SYSTEMS - Santa Barbara, CA 2002 to 2003 Wireless networks. Real-time embedded C. Atmel RISC. Designed and programmed real-time wireless product in C and assembler. Programmed the Application, Network and LLC OSI layers. Uses frequency hopping scheme to implement a network of up to 1,000 generic low cost radios to perform various metering and process control functions. Network can fragment and seamlessly repair itself during use. Software Developer Consultant ELLIPSYS TECHNOLOGIES - Santa Cruz, CA 2001 to 2002 Telecom. SHARC DSP. Intel i960. Real-time embedded C/C++. T1E1. Programmed DSP RISC processor to monitor phone lines in real time. Used by phone companies to troubleshoot and verify T1/E1 digital phone service. Programmed in C for real time acquisition of data, and Windows GUI in C++/Delphi that provides monitoring and reporting. Software Developer Consultant CANOGA-PERKINS - Chatsworth, CA 1999 to 2001 LAN/WAN products. Designed and developed user interfaces for gigabit Ethernet and DS3, DSL and fiber optic modem products in C. Intel i960. TCP/IP. SNMP. Spanning Tree. Power PC. Real-time embedded C. Nucleus. Software Developer Consultant APPLIED INNOVATIVE SCIENCES - Tustin, CA 1997 to 1999 Developed professional satellite receiver for News Corp, for the reception and re-transmission of channels for television broadcasting. Design and programming responsibility for all aspects of the user interface and control via remote satellite. Implemented program scheduling. Developed RTOS kernel for this product. MC68360. C. Assembler. Software Developer GENERAL INSTRUMENT - San Diego, CA 1996 to 1997 Cable Modem. Programmed the downstream channel for the Motorola Surfboard cable modem. Converted ATM to IP in real time. Embedded C/C++. VxWorks. Unix. M68360. Responsible for generating test data to simulate the analog differential encoding and forward error correction to verify the system. Also, developed and coded the bit error rate testing algorithms. Software Architect/ Developer BEA - Irvine, CA 1995 to 1996 In-flight entertainment. Created graphical authoring system development environment for Continental Airlines, used to develop interactive video seat applications. OS/2. C/C++ and assembler. Software Developer Consultant RETIX CORP - Santa Monica, CA 1994 to 1995 Communications programming. Ported FTAM File Transfer and Management and VT Virtual Terminal application code from SCO Unix to PC platform. OSI model. C and assembler. Software Developer HUGHES-AVICOM - Pomona, CA 1993 to 1994 In-flight entertainment. Designed and programmed interactive video seat application for Northwest Airlines. Games, movies, duty free shopping. SNES 65C816 assembler. Wireless Network. Software Developer SYMANTEC CORP/PETER NORTON - Santa Monica, CA 1991 to 1993 Norton Utilities Team. Developed the Norton Desktop File Fix utility application and the Norton Mail utility application, a global email system for MCI Mail. C/C++. Software Developer DESERT WATER AGENCY - Palm Springs, CA 1990 to 1991 Process control programming. Designed and developed system to monitor and control water pumping for the city of Palm Springs. Wireless Telemetry. C. Assembler. Software Architect/ Developer BOOKMASTER CORP - Telluride, CO 1987 to 1990 Data search and retrieval system. Designed and developed PC-based application for database search system. User interface design and programming. C. Assembler. Software Developer Consultant TYLAN CORP - Los Angeles, CA 1986 to 1987 Process control programming. Developed PC-based system for automated control of Semiconductor ovens for Intel. User interface design and development. Assembler. Education ITT Technical Institute in Los Angeles - Los Angeles, CA Skills Summary of Skills: Real-time embedded C software developer of commercial products, ranging from hardware level programming to system level architecture and front-end design and programming. Strong C, creative problem solver, with the ability to focus on the project goals, adapt as needed to meet the milestones and deliver a well-tested product on time. Experienced in agile development, leading and contributing to small to medium teams. Languages: C, C++, Assembler, Java, Python, Perl, Robot Framework, SNMP Processors: Power PC, x86, ARM, Cypress, Atmel, Sharc, M68360, i960, 65C816 Operating Systems: VxWorks, Nucleus, ThreadX, embOS, Windows, Linux, Unix, OS/2 (10+ years), Git, Agile development, ARM, Assembler, Atmel, Bugzilla, C, C++, Cable Modem, Communications, Creative problem solver, CVS, Cypress, Database search and retrieval, DIAB, DS3, DSL, DSP, Embedded , EmbOS, Ethernet, Excel, Front-end design and programming, Git, GNU, GPS, Graphical Interfaces, Hardware level programming, I2C, In-flight entertainment, Intel, Java, Linux, LTE, Medical devices, Motor control, Nucleus, Perl, Power PC, Process Control, Python, Real-time, Robot Framework, Satellite, SDLC, Sharc, SNMP, Software developer, SPI, System level architecture, TCP/IP, Telecom, ThreadX, TL9000, Unix, Vxworks, Windows, Wireless Networks, Word, x86