Program Manager Program Manager Program Manager with 5+ year of PM expreince in manging onine services, data anlaytics and big data solution. Redmond, WA Program Manager with 5+ Years of PM experience working with Microsoft Redmond. Have managed Factory Integration online Services for Microsoft hardware Devices & Cloud Data Center with expertise in big data analysis & solutions. Have experience from scenario identification to converting into features and building prototype with functional specification. I am PMP certified professional. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Program Manager Microsoft - Seattle, WA January 2014 to Present Program Name : Quality Management System    • Program Manager responsible to drive connected factory experience to enable data driven Quality Improvement Initiatives for hardware component used in Microsoft data centers. Focused on driving insights from the Big Data for improving quality of Racks and Servers being released for Microsoft Data Centers.   • Identifying Data Requirements, establishing Data Contract & building analytical tools & visualization to monitor and control quality of components using big data solutions   • Reduced PRR (Part Return Rate) by 0.5% and enabled cost avoidance of $X M for parts replacement.  • Establishing KPIs for quality monitoring & control with Metrics like Part Replacement Rate, Scrap Rate, Defect Part Per Million, Throughput Yield, 100DaysReturn, Weekly & Annual Install & Returns, Repeated Returns.   • Enabling monitoring and quality control using various Histogram, Pareto Charts, Control Charts, Scatter Diagram and power BI driven visualization.   • Enabling Master Data Governance and solutions for alignment across multiple suppliers & Microsoft  • Engage with customers to understand the requirements and Develop roadmap, define customer scenarios & feature capabilities and write feature specifications    Program Name : Online Services & Platform - Make & Return Platform    • Program Manager responsible for driving Factory Integration to track Device Genealogy & Device Warranty for Xbox & Surface devices.   • REST Based Service Platform for reliable & scalable services with high availability, responsiveness, conformity and security.   • Enabled Return Order, Entitlement & Warranty Service to serve millions of customers to fix broken Xbox or Surface devices with Integration for various personas like End Customer, Phone Agent, Retail & Enterprise    Program Name : Web Product – Audit Management System & M Source     • Worked as Product Owner for Web Based “Audit Management System” Product for supplier compliance of 400+ Suppliers & 800+ Factories to quality, Battery & other safety & SEA standards.   • Responsible for Identification of scenarios, converting into Features and building prototype with functional specification.   • Supplier Integration to enable Microsoft Sourcing Managers to track, bid & negotiate parts prices to lower cost of good purchased for Microsoft Products (COGP) Software Developer Microsoft - Hyderabad, Telangana April 2008 to February 2014    Software Engineer     ·        Lead CRM based platform for third parties Publishers to develop, deliver & certify world-class interactive entertainment content on Microsoft Xbox platform   ·        Lead the team for Short Term Delivery (STD) which delivered user stories to production every fortnight following Agile Quality and Lean Scrum Ban (LSB) principles  ·        Lead the team to deliver myservice.xbox.com capabilities as a service to be consumed by multiple clients like xbox.com, who wish to create their own UI Education B.E in CSE Madan Mohan Malviya Engineering College - Gorakhpur, Uttar Pradesh Skills Program Management, PMP, PMI, Project Management, Analytics (3 years) Certifications/Licenses Project Management Professional (PMP)