Senior Software Engineer Senior <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Senior Software Engineer - Information Builders, NY Brooklyn, NY A motivated IT professional with extensive experience in design,  development, implementation and maintenance of a wide range  of large-scale applications. Possesses strong analytical and  programming skills. Work Experience Senior Software Engineer Information Builders, NY December 2007 to Present Information Builders provides scalable software solutions for business intelligence (BI), analytics, integration and data integrity helping companies to maximize its valuable information capital. As a senior software engineer has been actively involved in design, development, maintenance and enhancements of WebFOCUS business intelligence and analytics platform utilizing Java and various Java EE technologies.    ? Improved existing SOAP web services framework for Self-Service and Managed Reporting;  ? Took part in design, development and implementation of a brand new RESTful web services to access WebFOCUS middle-tier from numerous platform's components;  ? Participated in design, coding and testing of the new API to interact with Reporting Server and various middle-tier parts;  ? Engaged in design and integration of SQL database with Java EE applications. Employed JPA/EclipseLink, provided complex SQL statements to extract/update/delete database information;  ? Designed and implemented new configuration subsystem. As part of the project provided merge/migration utilities.  ? Redesigned autoprompt application via RESTful web services and JQuery on front end;  ? Actively involved in development, maintenance, testing and debugging of a portion of BI platform specifically targeted at working with IBM products such as AS/400 server, WebSphere application server, DB2 database and WebSphere MQ series;  ? As a part of continuous integration performed unit testing with JUnit;  ? Agile methodology has been applied throughout SDLC. Communicated status in daily standup meetings using JIRA;  ? Responsible for production support and problem resolution; Senior Software Developer Delta Financial Corporation April 2006 to December 2007 Delta Financial Corporation was a consumer finance company that originated, securitized and sold non-conforming mortgage loans.    ? Took part in design and development of internal RealEC interface to allow users to request Appraisal, AVM, Title and Flood products from third party vendors via RealEC.com. Employed Java Servlets, Java Beans and JMS;  ? Redesigned and implemented Closing Underwriter and Post Closing functionality based on Struts framework;  ? Modified prequal functionality in AEW (account executive) website according to a new business specifications;  ? Provided database ad-hoc support;  ? Responsible for production support and problem resolution; Senior Software Developer Higher Education Services Corporation September 2003 to April 2006 Higher Education Services Corporation worked with schools and lenders, guaranteeing and administering students' loans.    ? Designed and developed WebFileTransfer(Single Sign-on) enabling business partners to upload and download formatted data files. Employed JCE API (3DES encryption/decryption algorithm) to authenticate the user in WebFileTransfer domain;  ? Utilizing Java Servlets, Java Beans, JMS, JDBC and Cybersource API took part in design, coding and testing Equifax/Credit Check subsystem to approve or decline credit applications;  ? Actively involved in migration from in-house built framework to IBM's EAD4J employing transaction management Topaz, cashing management Quartz and logging Opal components. As part of transition implemented upgrade from existing CCF interface to J2C (Java to CICS Connector);  ? Provided database ad-hoc support; Software Developer Clubmom Inc June 2000 to December 2002 Clubmom was a media/marketing company celebrating and rewarding moms' community    ? As part of Clubmom's Redemption initiative designed and developed Commerce Engine utilizing ATG Dynamo API as well as J2EE segments such as JMS and EJB;  ? Implemented e-mail client using Java Mail API to maintain interaction with company's customers;  ? Created JHTML/JSP files utilizing built-in ATG Dynamo Servlet Beans to implement dynamic content on web pages;  ? Extensively developed under Siebel CRM (Siebel Call Center) creating VBC (Virtual Business Components) to manage database access outside of Siebel. The objects were written in Siebel VB language; Education MA in Computer Science in Computer Science Brooklyn College MS in Mechanical Engineering in Mechanical Engineering Petersburg Polytechnic University Skills Eclipse, Java, Spring, Jboss, Struts Additional Information OPERATING SYSTEMS:  MS WINDOWS, UNIX    PROGRAMMING LANGUAGES:  JAVA, Javascript, C/C++, Unix Shell, COBOL/COBOL II, CICS, OS/JSL;    INTERNET/DISTRIBUTED SYSTEMS:  Apache (Tomcat, Maven, Struts), Spring Security, IBM WebSphere, ATG Dynamo, JBoss, Ilog JRules, Interwoven TeamSite, CyberSource, Siebel, XML, JSON, HTML;    INTEGRATED DEVELOPMENT ENVIRONMENTS( IDE ):  Eclipse, Rational Software Architect, WSAD, Visual Age for Java, TogetherSoft,  MagicDrawUML, MS Visual C++;    RDBMS:  Oracle, DB2, Derby;