Software Engineer <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Transformation Leader and Experienced Engineering Mentor New York, NY A seasoned leader and software engineer with over a decade of experience leveraging both Agile and Waterfall frameworks. Strong background in software and data engineering across multiple platforms. 360-degree collaborative leader focused forming productive partnerships with customers, peers, and management to achieve aggressive goals and objectives. Successful in delivering automation, innovation, and productivity by combining leadership, programming, communication, and business skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Engineer MLB Advanced Media - New York, NY October 2018 to Present Team member responsible for heading testing infrastructure and software development initiatives for baseball data and data integrity. Worked to design systems to enable automation engineers to develop rapid and responsive testing frameworks.    ? Led coding seminars and trainings for new test engineers and software developers  ? Organize, write, edit, and disseminate weekly mentoring minute emails to provide brief career, personal, and professional skill development opportunities to team members at every level  ? Managed enterprise testing automation team's professional and career development plans  ? Managed casual gaming replay architecture from design to implementation to roll out  ? Led team which designed and developed proprietary testing and data validation tools  ? Designed and implemented full pipeline testing solutions for various systems  ? Designed and developed frameworks and solutions to streamline test automation and test development  ? Trained associate test engineers and new hires across the department on software best practice  ? Trained associate test engineers on peer code reviewing practices and conventions  ? Performed peer reviews and code training reviews with engineers across baseball data Software Developer / Data Analyst PRO FOOTBALL FOCUS April 2017 to August 2018 Team member responsible for development of PFF's all-encompassing data warehouse, supporting and developing tools to meet needs of business partners as they arise. Worked to develop models and data sets to enable new insights into teams and players. Created and provided strategic insight reports for scouting and game planning purposes to 30 NFL teams.    ? Led the development of PFF's data warehouse from a simple dimension fact database with fewer than a dozen facts and dimensions to a true data warehouse with over 75 unique dimensions and several hundred facts to filter and query against.  ? Created a composable API to allow data from our data warehouse to be readily accessed and utilized by business partners to get detailed information about teams and players and their performances in many unique situations.  ? Design new mathematical models to rate and rank players in various situations such as play action versus standard passing plays. Various models and statistics were created for various teams and media affiliates as well as fans.  ? Worked to modernize league data management system. This system was responsible for tracking every player in the NFL, FBS, and certain FCS and high school conferences. Was involved in tracking players draft information, current and past teams, player numbers, injury information, and information about team's schedules stadiums, locations, and mascots as they changed over time along with many other crucial pieces of non-game time information.  ? Design and develop reporting tools for NFL clients to provide a winning edge in opposition scouting and play calling. Software Developer THE KROGER COMPANY May 2014 to April 2017 Team member responsible for three active applications and six applications in maintenance. Supported transportation, point of sale, and warehouse business segments achieving significant quality and productivity gains with cost savings of over $1.8 million. Worked within teams of 8 to 10 members and led 3 major projects.    ? Successfully led database consolidation project to enhance and automate reporting in support of transportation department. Consolidated 30 databases into 1 and migrated Websphere system off old infrastructure. Primary efficiencies were achieved by reworking threading architecture to eliminate database locks.  ? Automated manual data inputs containing large amounts of contractual data sets. Leveraged existing technology to develop a new vendor billback process which allowed the Finance department to reduced required support staff from 25 to 1.  ? Created automatic software solution to allow for more efficient transportation of goods during peak holiday seasons saving over $300k annually.  ? Replaced front-end of obsolete mainframe database which mitigated finance labor risks and will save the organization $200,000 a year.  ? Serve in a Business Analyst role to scope and define business requirements with customers.  ? Created developer onboarding procedure and function as lead trainer to ensure standardized approach to software delivery. Co-Host / Analyst / Producer VSPORTO, LLC December 2014 to January 2016 Co-hosted and produced It's A Numbers Game a twice-weekly Ohio State athletics-oriented radio show covering the analytics that drive game time decisions. Additionally, the show often focused on breaking down the stats every week as well the plays and concepts the team was leveraging that week.  ? Researched and scripted two roughly 50 minute shows a week focusing on current events in Ohio State athletics and explaining various analytic approaches to listeners.  ? Developed simplified mathematical models that could be easily explained over the radio to listeners with varying degrees of mathematical aptitude.  ? Provided the voice for the analytics side of the show answering questions from listeners and my co-host regarding current statistical trends in football and the in-season sports at Ohio State  ? Provided the first level of editing before submitting the prerecorded sections to the final editing team. Junior Software Developer THE KROGER COMPANY August 2007 to May 2014 Part of team focusing on support of retail, warehousing, reporting, and data management operations.  ? Lead complete rewrite of reporting application containing over 120 unique reports which tied together several disjoint systems and provided the up to the minute shipping and receiving data.  ? Developed automated system to provide up to the minute flow control information for tracking metrics for pickers and alert when work is ahead or behind schedule in the warehouse  ? Provided application operational support Education Master in Sports Administration Ohio University - Athens, OH August 2018 to Present Bachelor of Science in Applied Mathematics The Ohio State University - Columbus, OH Skills DATA ANALYTICS, SAAS, DATABASE, JDBC, ORACLE, POSTGRES, SQL, C/C++, C++, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, LISP, PERL, PYTHON, VISIO, INTEGRATION TESTING, TESTNG, IMS, JAVA, HIBERNATE Certifications/Licenses Sports Betting Regulations, UNLV International Center For Gaming Regulation February 2019 to Present Assessments Management & Leadership Skills: Planning & Execution — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to effectively plan and manage resources to accomplish organizational goals. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/no-xgf4p2vza31kj Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information PROFESSIONAL SKILLS    ? Languages: C/C++, R, Java, Javascript, HTML, Elixir, Perl, Python, Rust, Lisp, Matlab, Kotlin    ? Frameworks: Angular, React, J-query, EXT-JS, Spring, Stripes, Swing, Phoenix, TestNG, RESTful endpoints, GraphQL    ? Operating Systems: Windows, Unix/Linux, Mac    ? Databases: HQL, IBM IMS, SQL, Oracle, JDBC, Hibernate, Neo4J, Postgres    ? Tools: Microsoft tool suites, Excel, Word, Access, PowerPoint, Visio, AWS, CloudFoundry LucidChart    ? Skills: Talent Management, Mentorship, Coaching and Professional Development, Leadership and Strategic Planning, Data Analytics, Statistical Analysis, Database Management, Integration Testing, Project Design, Management, Systems Management, SaaS, Agile Methodologies