.Net developer .Net <span class="hl">developer</span> .Net developer - Connectyourcare Hunt Valley, MD • Over87 years of IT experience in software analysis, design, development, coding and testing experience.  • Experience in designing and development of applications using ASP.NET, VISUAL C#, ADO.NET, SQL Server, HTML5, XML, jQuery, Angular JS, Entity Framework, CSS and JAVASCRIPT.  • Experience with WCF: Hosting, Debugging, Tracing, Transactions, and Security.  • Experience in Developing XML applications, Web Services like REST, IIS (Internet Information Server).  • Implemented object oriented concepts like Data Abstraction, Inheritance, Data Encapsulation, and Polymorphism using C #.NET.  • Strong knowledge of DESIGN PATTERNS like Creational (like Factory, Singleton, Prototype etc.,), Structural, Behavioral patterns, and the UML methodology.  • Strong Knowledge of Database design and development and experience in writing SQL queries, views, Triggers, Stored Procedures in SQL Server.  • Experience in handling various backend data sources like MS SQL Server 2000/2005/2008/2012, and XML Data source.  • Experience in using Visual Studio. Net platform (C#, ASP.NET, ADO.Net), thorough knowledge of the architecture and the framework (Common Language Runtime and Foundation Class Library).  • Experience with AJAX controls and Windows Communication foundation (WCF).  • Developed Interfaces for data exchange using LINQ, ADO.Net.  • Experienced in XML (XML, DTD, and XML Schema).  • Experience on Team Foundation Server (TFS) for Version Control, Team builds, Project Management, Data Collection and Reporting.  • By using Azure Websites allows developers to build sites using ASP.NET, PHP, Team Foundation Server(TFS).  • Experience in MVC5 Framework. Worked in projects and built applications based on MVC framework.  • Experience in AGILE and Waterfall methodologies.  • Performed Test Driven Development (TDD): Unit Testing and Load Testing. Work Experience .Net developer Connectyourcare - Hunt Valley, MD October 2017 to Present Description: Claims Automated Payments Project developed for Progressive Insurance. This application enables the representative to online claim tracking, make a payment for estimated payments and to allow the representative to view or find the payment. It provides the representative with a worksheet that can be used more intuitively and effectively to setup information to make payment, save it and return later. Also while making a payment a mechanism is provided to create, process and resolve issues preventing the issuing of the payment.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in complete agile practice team which gathers and designs the tasks based on customer requirement.  • Designed and Developed by using standard MVC, ASP.NET and provided the required functionality by using C#.NET.  • Developed an internal pilot project to organize developers and their work in TFS using visual studio 2015 and angular js.  • Involved in TFS Branching and Deployment, and the workflow designing for every task.  • Involved in development of controllers, views, models and view models in MVC.  • Used ASP.NETAJAX controls and also JQuery, Angular JS for Web Application Development.  • Used Razor to develop views and SOAP API calls to write the services.  • Developed ASP.NET web forms using HTML, JAVASCRIPT, and CSS to control the style and layout of multiple pages.  • Worked on Tools like UML for creating ER Diagrams and Use Case diagrams using Microsoft Visio.  • Worked on HOGAN to retrieve and save the customer details.  • Requirement gathering and user story acceptance criteria were done and participated in Retrospective meetings to enhance the performance based on the customer requirement.  • Team Foundation Server (TFS) is used for source control and also used extensively for constant integration.  • Used ADO.NET (for SQL Data Provider) technology for data retrieving, querying, storage and manipulation.  • Developed Typed Datasets by generating XSD (XML Schema Definitions) to interact with Data.  • Developed complex SQL queries, Stored Procedures and Triggers for getting the transactions and statements and documents that occur on a daily/monthly/yearly basis.    Environment: .NET 4.0 Framework, JAVASCRIPT, JQuery, AJAX, SQL SERVER 2008, MVC,ASP.NET, AJAX Control Toolkit, VB.NET, C#, XML, HTML, CSS, Team Foundation Server 2012 and Visual Studio 2010, Visual Studio 2015, Windows Server 2008/2012 .Net developer M&T Bank - Buffalo, NY September 2015 to October 2017 Description: Online banking project comprises of customer authentication system and querying the customer before entering the customer into the online banking. It deals with several types of accounts, statements and documents. There are different types of accounts like personal, Business, OBO. And the customer support, routing and reporting, like tracking of user accounts can be done using Reporting manager project. A new Security system for secured online banking called RSA to provide more secured transactions to the customers. It uses several third party tools that are connected to the online banking for increased performance.  Responsibilities:  • Gathered requirements, Involved in designing, database architecture development, unit testing, Code Reviews.  • Designed and Developed by using standard ASP.NET and provided the required functionality by using C#.NET.  • Experience in Team foundation server 2010 and used it for source control, work item tracking and for team project portal  • Worked on new Business, Endorsements, Renewals, Manual Adjustments, Cancels, Reinstatements, Cancel-Reinstatements (CNRI) policies, Pay plan payments and Prorate Calculations.  • Worked on Volunteer Policies and the Take-Out policies.  • Involved in development of Web Forms, classes using ASP.NET MVC 5.0 that incorporates both N-Tier Architecture, and Database Connectivity.  • Used ASP.NET AJAX controls and some part of angular js and also Entity Framework for Web Application Development.  • Developed Interfaces for data exchange using LINQ, ADO.Net, C# and XML.  • Developed ASP.NET web forms using HTML, JAVASCRIPT, and CSS to control the style and layout of multiple pages.  • Consumed Remote Web services using WCF Service model.  • Developed Windows Communication Foundation (WCF) Service Layer for Service Oriented Architecture (SOA).  • Team Foundation Server is used for source control and also used extensively for constant integration.  • Used ADO.NET (for SQL Data Provider) technology for data retrieving, querying, storage and manipulation.  • Developed Typed Datasets by generating XSD (XML Schema Definitions) to interact with Data.  • Developed complex SQL queries, Stored Procedures and Triggers for getting the transactions that occur on a daily/monthly/yearly basis.    Environment: .NET 4.0 Framework, MVC, SQL SERVER 2008, ASP.NET, AJAX Control Toolkit, Windows Communication Foundation (WCF), Win Forms, C#, XML, HTML, CSS, Team Foundation Server and Visual Studio 2010, Windows Server 2008/2012 .Net developer Disney - Orlando, FL August 2013 to September 2015 Description: Walt Disney Company was the company that initially owned and operated Walt Disney World near Orlando, Florida. The resort land was owned by Walt Disney World Company, Walt Disney Travel Company, and Walt Disney World Hospitality and Recreation Corporation. Today, the land and resort are owned and operated by Walt Disney Parks and Resorts division of The Walt Disney Company.    Responsibilities:  • Interacted with the Analyst in person to get an understanding on the requirements  • Involved in the complete life cycle (SDLC) of the project, including (design, development, implementation, testing, support, and production maintenance).  • Designed and develop web user interface using ASP.NET, ASP.NET MVC, C#, HTML, JavaScript.  • Developed screens using ASP.NET server controls; use form field validations server side validations using ASP.NET Validation Controls.  • Implemented RESTful web services with JSON.  • Designed and developed the Web Forms extensively using ASP.NET.  • Used presentation layer as CSS, which allows customization of layout; color based on the user selection using XSLT, XML, and CSS.  • Designed and developed Entity Framework to retrieve data from the database  • Designed data access layer using LINQ and ADO.NET datasets and data adapters  • Developed WCF and integrated it with BizTalk server 2010 service to retrieve/update data.  • Designed and developed the application in .NET Framework 4.0.  • Followed Agile methodologies (scrum, extreme programming) and test driven development.  • Developed secured web application to protect sensitive data  • Involved in developing Federated Web Application using ASP.NET  • Built the tables, views, queries, stored procedures and triggers for the system using SQL Server 2005/2008  • Developed stored procedures SQL Server 2005/2008; held responsibility for complete testing and deployment  • Involved in testing and debugging and performed thorough unit testing  • Used Team foundation Server 2010/2012 for version control    Environment: ASP.NET 4.0, ASP.NET MVC, MS Visual Studio 2010/2012, .NET Framework 4.0/4.5, C#, ADO.NET, SQL, XML, TFS 2010/2012, JSON, JavaScript, , CSS, AJAX, SQL Server 2008/2005, IIS. Software Engineer TransUnion - Chicago, IL July 2011 to August 2013 Description: The application is a web based online Job management application in which users plays key role. Users are categorized into Job seekers, Companies or Consultants. Job seekers can register themselves and they can apply the selected jobs directly. Companies or Consultants can post their requirements like functional area, skill set, years of experience etc. also companies can select the job seekers by searching and shortlist the resume, IBS is online shopping cart application, which allows the users to order goods Online, and Invoices will be generated to the orders and they will be sent to the users automatically    Responsibilities:  • Involved in the Requirement Analysis phase along with the team.  • Involved in preparing technical specification documents.  • Involved in User Interface design of the application.  • Designed, developed and enhanced the application in .NET Framework 3.5.  • Followed Agile methodologies (scrum, extreme programming) and test driven development.  • Created class diagrams, use case diagrams, activity flow diagrams and object Interaction diagrams using UML Modeling.  • Developed Web Forms using ASP.NET and also VB 6.0 for front end Graphical User Interface (UI).  • Extracted data using different links, events in MongoDB which is NoSQL Database  • Used AJAX and Telerik controls like combo boxes etc.  • Created and Consumed WCF& Web Services like RESTful using JSON.  • Implemented various Validation Controls and also created Custom Validation Controls using JavaScript to perform Client Side Validation.  • Used MVC framework in developing the applications.  • Implemented Page Level Error Handling using Custom Error pages and Error logs.  • Used ADO.NET objects such as Dataset, Data Adapter, and Data Reader.  • Created various types of reports using SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS) and deployed on server.  • Used TFS for all the source code control among the whole team members.  • Automated Unit test cases using N-unit.  • Worked with testing team to fix the bugs as part of bug life cycle and Production support.  • Prepared Technical documentations, user manuals, installation and user guides and functional description at each stage of the application to assist the client.    Environment: .NET Framework 3.5, C#, ASP.NET, HTML, JavaScript, CSS, XML, XSLT, AJAX 2.0, ADO.NET, Web Service, WCF, SQL Server 2008, SSRS, TFS, Web Forms, IIS, TFS, Windows Server XP clients, Visual Studio 2008, Microsoft Office. .Net Developer NEOSTEK, Inc - Washington, DC June 2009 to July 2011 Description: Control Point Solutions, Inc. provides voice, data, and wireless telecommunications expense management (TEM) services to various organizations. It validates the billing information for various clients handled by it against their vendors and reports any violation found to the client and follows up with the violations and queries with the vendor.  Responsibilities:  • Creation of Application in ASP.NET Architecture.  • Developed Views for masters and transactions with Razor Engine.  • Used LINQ &Entity Framework for CRUD operations.  • Used JQuery to dynamically load content in the UI to enhance the users' experience.  • Created Models in code first approach.  • Developed Partial views to be reused application wide.  • Adding bootstrap styles to application.  • Involved in N-Unit Testing and writing scenarios.  • Developed Data Importing Tool to Importing the Data from Excel into Specified Tables and Columns.  • Developed a Utility that captures all the Jobs posted in the Database and export it as XML to a third party.  • Testing compatibility issues with different browsers.  • Developed WCF Services and provided Service Contracts to validate User Details in Biometric Authentication.  • Developed Microsoft Reporting Services.    Environment: .Net Framework 4.0, C#, ASP.NET, Entity Framework 4.1, WCF, SSRS, HTML5, Twitter bootstrap, CSS3, JSON, SQL Server 2008,IIS7.0, Visual Studio 2010, Visual Source Safe (VSS) Education Bachelor's Skills .NET, VISUAL STUDIO, BIZTALK, C#, C++ Additional Information Technical Skills:    Programming Languages C, C++, C#  Microsoft Technologies ASP.NET, C#.NET, ADO.NET, VB, Web Services, MVC, LINQ, VISIO, Excel.  Web Technologies HTML, DHTML, XML, XSLT, CSS  Script Languages JAVASCRIPT, jQuery, angular js  Middleware ADO, N-Hibernate, Entity Framework, LINQ to SQL  Databases MS SQL Server 2000/2005/2008/2012, MS Access, Oracle  Web Servers Internet Information Server (IIS)  Development Tools Visual Studio 2008/2010/2012/2015  Frameworks .Net Framework 1.1/2.0/3.0/3.5/4.0, ASP.Net MVC 2.0/3.0/4.0, MVP  Windows Frameworks Windows Communication Foundation,BizTalk 2010/2012  Reporting Tools SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS 2008/2005), Crystal Reports