Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Software Developer Clarksville, MD • 20+ years of IT experience developing software; to include the Analysis, Design, Development,  Testing and Implementation of applications using Microsoft .NET Framework; including C#.net,  VB.net, ASP.net. Additionally, have experience developing WPF/WCF using MVVM patterns.  • 10+ years' experience developing applications using Microsoft Visual Basic.  • Experience with multiple software development methodologies including Agile and Waterfall.  • Extensive experience with Microsoft Visual Studio and Microsoft Team Explorer.  • 15 years' experience with relational databases. Exceptionally strong in Microsoft SQL Server to  include Entity Framework (version 6.2). Have experience with Sybase, Microsoft Access  databases, and Oracle.  o Extensive experience in T-SQL to write stored procedures, functions and triggers.  o Designed, scripted, optimized and documented tables, views and index objects.  o Extensive experience writing dynamic SQL, to include dynamically creating and  executing SQL Server jobs, the largest of which increase performance by 300%.  • Experience in developing SSIS packages to automate processing of TSQL and stored Experience  in multiple software development methodologies including Agile and Waterfall.  • Experience in multiple software development methodologies including Agile and Waterfall.  o procedures.  o Experience utilizing the system database of objects to create utility scripts.  o Charged with developing and re-designing several backend T-SQL processes to include  upgrading with dynamic SQL.  • Knowledge of healthcare data and standards to include International Classification of Disease  (ICD-9 and ICD-10), Current Procedural Terminology (CPT), Logical Observation Indentifiers  Name and Codes(LOINC), gaps in care, (GAPS)  • Experience extending and modifying accounting software to include Solomon Accounting  Software and QuickBooks.  • Experience leading small group of developers and mentoring team members. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Developer Three Sigma Software - Laurel, MD November 2018 to Present Microsoft shop, using SQL Server and Oracle, depending on the client's needs. .Net web application utilizing Bootstrap 4, JQuery, Ignite grids, and other controls. Our clients are state agencies that support the WIC (Women and Infant Children) program for their state. Involved in conversion effort to upgrade modules to utilize bootstrap and replace infragistics grids with ignite grids. Sr. Software Developer DRT Strategies - Arlington, VA December 2016 to November 2018 December 2016 - present)  Currently on team assigned to Department of Commerce in downtown DC. Worked on various  development efforts:    Agile team member that has developed and delivered and continues to enhance an ASP MVC 4  application, utilizing Kendo tools and Entity Framework.  Agile team member involved in modernization effort that ported a large existing UNIX  application to Windows. Member of team that converted an existing Unix application to Windows, in a  WPC/WPF platform and developing C# / .Net parts of the application/solution. Senior Developer / Project Lead Inovalon June 2008 to August 2016 for Integrated Telephonic Communication Coordinator (Itcc), which is an in-house call center and scheduling application. iTCC integrated care coordination, member  health improvement, risk score accuracy, and CMS five-star quality ratings to positively impact clinical and financial outcomes for medical insurance companies and their members. The program supports  members with diabetes, heart failure, coronary artery disease (CAD), asthma and chronic obstructive  pulmonary disease (COPD). Using targeted, member-specific, site-specific and provider specific  analytics, iTCC achieves the right intervention for the right member, in the right venue, at the right time.    • Served as .NET software developer, SQL Server developer, and Team lead  • Designed, coded and tested new modules for the Itcc product.  • Contributions involved designing new database objects and writing, optimizing and testing stored  procedures, functions and triggers.  • Designed a centralized model for itcc, with a single central database and client specific datgabases.  • Implemented dynamic SQL to centralize the database code.  • Led the design and development of the itcc application, taking it from software that supported onle  one client and one product to a multi-client, multi-product application.  • Environment: Windows 7, Internet Explorer, SQL Server, .NET 4.5, Visual Studio, TFS, VB.net, c#,  Silverlight 4.0, HTML, ASP.NET, WPF, WCF, XAML. Project Manager / Senior Software Developer American Capital 2005 to 2008 Served as release manager and development manager for internal sub-accounting system to. portfolio  companies accounting transactions. These transactions were then summarized and imported into the  Solomon Accounting software. Also developed software for accounting system in VB.NET and SQL  Server. Integrated Insurance Software 2003 to 2006 Senior Software Developer Worked on team to develop workers compensation software for insurance  agencies. Software Development Manager Myvesta.org 2000 to 2003 Led team of software developers to create internal software for programs developed in-house with  VB.NET and SQL Server. Various positions Wyatt and Pinkerton Computer Associates 1985 to 2000 developing software skills in the financial sector, including Watson  Wyatt and Pinkerton Computer Associates. Education BA in Economics Emory University 1982 Skills SQL (10+ years), C# (5 years), .NET (5 years), Asp.Net MVC (2 years), JQuery (Less than 1 year), Javascript (3 years), Agile (6 years), Visual Basic (10+ years), ADO (7 years), CSS (1 year), Great Plains (2 years), HTML (10+ years), XML (2 years), Xaml (3 years), WPF (3 years), Wcf (3 years), Git, ASP, HTML 5 Additional Information Current hold a Secret Clearance.