Principal Software Developer Principal <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Principal Software Developer Manchester, NH Work Experience Principal Software Developer FIDELITY INVESTMENTS - Merrimack, NH March 2008 to 2019 Acted as individual contributor/subject matter expert for human resources and employer  withholding filing in the software suite supported. Task nature varied from production  support/bug fixing to design/development of large-scale enhancements.    ? Converted benefits eligibility data as part of decommissioning effort and migration to a SaaS solution. The conversion scripts were programmed using SQL Developer and  PL/SQL. Also designed and quality assurance tested benefits eligibility enhancements  in the SaaS solution. Overall cost savings from project effort were related to removal of on-site infrastructure and using shared cloud resources instead.  ? Automated a solution to assign retiree healthcare credits to employees, simplifying what  had been a manual process with many inaccuracies. Greatly streamlined the process for the customer, allowing reduction of headcount needed for execution and problem  resolution.  ? Upgraded a legacy HR/payroll application while also migrating off IBM mainframe to Oracle/Linux. Tools leveraged included SQL Developer, Bash shell scripting, and  MicroFocus COBOL. $2 million was saved in this Agile team effort.  ? Developed enhancements to a packaged HR/Payroll suite. Solutions included complex  batch solutions utilizing COBOL/DB2/JCL to support new hire, employee benefits, and W-2 filing requirements. Performance tuned the functions, saving $100k over a 5-year  period. Mentored and trained new developers added to offshore team. Consultant Software Engineer KEANE, INC - Bedford, NH 2000 to 2007 In individual contributor role, consulted for clients in the financial services and insurance  industries, and state government.    ? Liberty Mutual Insurance: Wrote COBOL programs to report from a data warehouse.  Also designed and programmed conversion programs and load utilities to bring data from an acquired company into the data warehouse.  ? Allmerica Insurance: Filled an applicant support role, programming small maintenance  changes and resolving application defects on a CICS online system.  ? Patriot Insurance: Determined conversion requirements, then programmed conversion  logic in SQL Server to load the data from an acquired company.  ? State of Maine: Performed a quality assurance role, executing use cases for a new  motor vehicle web application. Also handled defect assignment and verification.    In team lead and individual contributor roles, consulting for clients in the insurance, manufacturing, and wholesale industries, and for public utility.    ? Liberty Mutual Insurance: Completed multiple client engagements. Delivered  maintenance enhancements for a batch group claims system and an online and batch  property/auto/liability claims system, directed a production support team, and developed  interface programs for a new general ledger product purchased.  ? Norton Coated Abrasives: Designed and programmed batch data conversion programs  to load data into a new vendor software product to manage physical inventory.  ? Central Maine Power: Developed customizations to a vendor product purchased to manage work orders and physical inventory.  ? Union Mutual: Designed and programmed batch data conversion programs to load data  for internal migration initiative to a new claims system.  ? UNFI: Performed application support duties for order printing system. Education Bachelor of Science in (B.S), Computer Information Systems DeVry Institute of Technology - Columbus, OH Skills COBOL, MICROFOCUS, MICROFOCUS COBOL, DB2, SQL SERVER, ORACLE, PL/SQL, SQL, INFORMATICA, SCRIPTING, SYSTEMS ANALYSIS, TELON, SHELL SCRIPTING, UNIX, UNIX SHELL, JCL, IMS, CICS, SAS, ISPF Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/jeffrey-schwotzer