Software Architect <span class="hl">Software</span> Architect Software Architect - Entangled Ventures Work Experience Software Architect Entangled Ventures March 2019 to Present Technologies  .NET Core. ASP.NET Core, Entity Framework Core, C#, SQL Server, JavaScript, Vue.js, Node.js, NLP, Hangfire, Chrome Extensions, Regular Expression, Python, spaCy, TextBlob, NLTK, Postgres, Elastic Search, Azure, AWS,  Google Cloud, Bootstrap, Ruby on Rails, React, Docker, Linux, Microservices, Semaphore CI, VS Code, DBeaver.    • Implement full stack and innovate on various incubation ideas using modern technologies.  • Perform iterations and pivots to keep up with the quick change in pace.  • Brainstorm incubation ideas with Venture Partners by providing analysis and insights from a technical  perspective.    ComplianceEase  Technologies  .NET + Core, ASP.NET MVC + Core, Entity Framework + Core, C#, Dapper ORM, JavaScript, Regular Expression, Vue.js, Bootstrap, jQuery, SQL Server, REST + WSDL services, Redis, Elastic Search, ABCPdf, ITextSharp,  Json.net, AWS, Git, Mercurial, Jenkins, Selenium, JIRA, Bitbucket, Balsamiq, eFax, MISMO Software Development Manager March 2015 to March 2019 • Managed my 2nd development team from the acquisition of MBS.  • Re-architected legacy flagship product from MBS to address key pain points that prevents it from serving a larger market segments.  • Designed and developed the next generation flagship product to serve the mortgage documentation  preparation and closing market.  • Reduced turnaround support requests time by days or weeks to just minutes or hours by leveraging  the application's data driven designs. Custom fields, rules, documents, integration mappings and other  related metadata can be updated at run-time hence eliminating the need to do custom development  work. Ability to test the metadata at every level helps to prevent breakage in the system.  • Built and led development teams (both on-shore and off-shore) responsible for QVP product line.  • Mentor and coach team members to achieve higher level of autonomy.  • Established standard development framework to reduce errors and increase quality by promoting  consistency and repeatability. Staff Software Developer AtHoc November 2012 to December 2013 Technologies  .NET, ASP.NET MVC, Entity Framework, C#, Dapper ORM, JavaScript, SQL Server, Bootstrap, OpenLayers, Google  Maps, Bing Maps, MapServer, FFmpeg, Json.net, Knockout, SimpleInjector, Mustache Templates, T4 Templates    • Designed and developed high-quality software under tight deadlines for high profile customers.  • Re-factored Maps module to improve performance, maintainability and added new features.  • Designed and developed next generation UI using responsive, real-time, SPA concepts.  • Worked across multiple teams to help keep the project on track.  • Worked with a technical writer to help with documentation and training materials for users. Principal Consultant March 2011 to November 2012 Designed and developed a Loan Verification Platform (QVP) which uses multiple data sources to verify  and qualify borrowers' income, identity and employment.  • Increased platform throughput by 20 times by having a centralized and secured web portal for receiving order requests, streamlining backend operations for concurrency and automating the  fulfillment and delivery process. Founder GrubCrowd January 2011 to September 2012 Sole founder and developer responsible for bringing GrubCrowd from conception to a fully functional  web application.  • Created a fully customizable online menu for restaurants with comprehensive sharing capabilities.  • Integrated with Yelp for reviews.  • Member of the Microsoft BizSpark program. Chief Software Architect Hobsons May 2005 to January 2011 Responsible for defining the technical direction of the EMT Connect CRM product. (aka Education CRM  Suite)  • Led a team of 3 product architects responsible for researching new technologies, creating proof of concepts, product development, and architecture reviews.  • Led the design and development of a multi-tenant system with dynamic object models which can be  customized at run-time.  • Designed and developed an extensible and customizable search engine to query dynamic object  models.  • Designed and developed a Single Sign-On platform with active syncing with Hobsons' products.  • Designed and developed Events and Interviews management product module.  • Designed and developed the Group Chat product module.  • Designed and developed Telecommunication management product module.  • Designed and developed filter-based reporting with data drill down. Software Architect C&S Technologies March 2000 to April 2005 As the first technical employee, I designed and developed company's flagship product which was  acquired by Liberty Tax for ~10M.  • Led and managed development teams responsible for 3 line of businesses.  • Designed and developed internal RAD framework to help automate and streamline the development of Federal and State tax forms. Web Developer Nortel Networks November 1998 to March 2000 • Maintained and developed new features for existing e-business applications.  • XML shopping cart transfers to participating resellers' and distributors' websites.  • Customized marketing materials, business cards, letterheads and posters for SMB partners based on their user profiles.  • Led a team of consultants to design and develop a web portal for SMB partners from scratch using  PCOrder/Trilogy e-business solution. Application Developer Multicall 1997 to 1998 Designed and developed a voicemail system which enables users to listen and manage their messages  from a web portal and Microsoft Outlook.  • Designed and developed Agent desktop for call centers to handle support calls via the CSTA interface.  • Integrated Agent desktop with Remedy and Clarify helpdesk applications.  • Features include: Web callbacks, IVR, Screen pops, Call routing, Automatic call distribution Education MS in Enterprise Software Engineering San Jose State University 2002 to 2004 BS in Computer Science San Jose State University 1995 to 1998