Software Engineer II <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer II Software Engineer II - Nova Technologies Orlando, FL Seeking a full-time software development position to utilize my 14 years of experience in the software development lifecycle in both development and administration. Work Experience Software Engineer II Nova Technologies - Orlando, FL May 2014 to Present • Responsible for all the software builds for the CFFT-III, JTAC, and physion products using CruiseControl.NET  • Creating and updating the CFFT-III, JTAC, and physion software build scripts.  • Creating and updating CFFT-III, JTAC, and physion installer utilities using Windows Installer XML (WiX).  • Maintaining source code branches using Microsoft Team Foundation Server.  • Developed source code for reporting tools used for government CCB meetings.  • Set up Team Foundation Server and SharePoint backups.  • Set up Windows Server backups.  • Responsible for maintaining backups for Windows Server, Team Foundation Server, and SharePoint.  • Created and maintained build server images.  • Built a new Windows 10 based build server.  • Responsible for the Windows Server administration.  • Responsible for Team Foundation Server and SharePoint administration.  • In September 2018, I took over the IT responsibilities in addition to continuing my responsibilities with CFFT-III, JTAC, and physion  • Responsible for administration of the company Sophos UTM firewall  • Responsible for administration and backups of QNAP NAS systems  • Responsible for administration and backups of company Active Directory in Windows Server 2012 and all virtual machines using Windows Hyper-V  • Responsible for administration of the company phone system  • Responsible for administration of and updates to the company intranet  • In October 2018, I supported all the Panama City employees through Hurricane Michael and had all Panama City servers also moved to Orlando where I assumed responsibilities for administration and backups. Senior Software Engineer Logic Springs Technologies - Lake Mary, FL June 2013 to May 2014 • Using C# and WPF to develop new applications in the software system.  • Fixing and upgrading VB.NET applications using C#.NET  • Building Windows services using C# .NET.  • Used Tortoise SVN for source control. Software Developer JHT, Inc - Orlando, FL December 2007 to May 2013 • Used C#.NET to develop devices being simulated on the MRTS training simulator.  • Tracked tasks and issues using TeamFoundations.  • Used TeamFoundations for source control.  • Installed and set up Microsoft Windows Server 2008 for the domain server used to run the MRTS simulator.  • Installed and set up SQL Server 2005 Express and SQL Server 2005 Management Studio Express on Windows Server 2008 as the SQL server that contained all training information for all computers in the simulation.  • Installed and set up Microsoft Windows on all computers and virtual machines in the training simulation.  • Installed VMWare to create and set up all virtual machines used in the training simulation.  • Set up RealVNC on all virtual machines in order to simulate KVM capabilities in software.  • Wrote documentation for procedure on setting up Windows 7, the Windows Server 2008 domain, and VMWare virtual machines for the training simulation.  • Assisted the lab lead in the implementation of standardized software requirements documentation.  • Responsible for backup of local development server data. Software Developer Leave a Light On Software - Oviedo, FL October 2005 to November 2007 • Primary developer of key products which included time tracking capabilities, .NET User controls, and consumer applications.  • Directly interacted with clients to provide software development services for OpenLaszlo Framework and MySQL.  • Responsible for server backups and offsite storage. Education Bachelor of Science in Information Technology in Information Technology University of Central Florida - Orlando, FL 1998 to 2003 Skills .NET, MICROSOFT VISUAL STUDIO, VISUAL STUDIO, C#, C/C++ Certifications/Licenses MCTS 70-511: Windows Applications Development with Microsoft .NET Framework 4 February 2012 to Present