Senior Application Developer Senior Application <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Application Developer - IBM India Pvt. Ltd Wayne, NJ ? Thirteen years of IT industry experience of working on Microsoft technologies, Business Objects XI, MSSQL and Oracle technologies.  ? Extensive experience with analysis, design, development, customizations and implementation of software applications.  ? Proficient in analyzing and translating business requirements to technical requirements and architecture.  ? Strongly skilled and experienced in Microsoft based technologies like MS.Net 2.0, 3.5 and 4.5, MS SQL 2005/2012.  ? Have extensively worked on OOPS, ASP.NET, ADO.NET and SQL Server.  ? Have worked in Web service, JavaScript, jQuery, VBScript, stored procedures, triggers, oracle packages, SSRS and Windows services.  ? Ability to perform well in development, maintenance, support, leading & managing projects in Microsoft technologies.  ? Strong database skills, Object Oriented Programming and development knowledge  ? Have strong analytical and problem-solving skills and providing suggestion and solution for the technical issues & problems.  ? Have broad experience in full life cycle of software development process including requirement analysis, design, development, implementation, maintenance of projects.  ? Experience in leading and managing teams. Handled multiple roles - Team Lead and Developer  ? Executed software projects for Healthcare, Education and Electronics industry  ? Good communication skills, interpersonal skills, self-motivated, quick learner, team player.  ? ITIL Foundation certified. (ITIL® V3)  ? Involved in organization level audit (ISO 9000) and internal process/product reviews. Have good understanding of delivery excellence.  ? Have been part of preparing Project Plan, Communication Plan, Configuration Plan and Project Tailoring documents Work Experience Senior Application Developer IBM India Pvt. Ltd - IN August 2010 to Present India  As a Senior Application Developer responsible for Analysis, design, development, testing and implementation of solutions for new implementations and upgrades for our IBM US customer Xerox Corporation.    Project: Document Archival and Retrieval Tool (DART)  Description: DART is an enterprise content management solution that helps to manage enterprise content and processes in effectively.  Environment: MS.Net Framework 4.5 (C#.Net, ADO.Net), Oracle 11.2, FileNet Enterprise Manager 5.2, Record Crawler    Project: Data Aggregator  Description: The main objective of this application is to take data from various applications (like CAPS, XEEP, IA, and EMP) and consolidate those data into a single output.  Environment: MS.Net Framework 4.0 (C#.Net, ADO.Net, WCF), MS SQL 2005, VSS    Project: CSE CRU (Customer Replaceable Unit)  Description: CSE CRU application is used to place orders for the replaceable units.  Environment: MS.Net Framework 3.5 (C#.Net, ASP.Net ADO.Net), MS SQL server 2012, jQuery, CSS, IIS 8.0    Project: CCPT Online Reporting  Description: A reporting tool to generate and view reports of customer calls, orders placed. This system is used to schedule and deliver the reports to a designated locations like FTP, Printers, Email..,  Environment: Business Objects XI, Crystal Reports Xi, VB Script, SQL Server 2005.    Project: Voyageur NA & XE  Description: Voyageur II NA is a CCPT application used by the Welcome Center Support Group. The CSE attend the calls from the Xerox Customer, for whom Xerox would have either leased or sold their product(s)/services. The application will retrieve information from multiple legacy systems and displays in-formation's to the CSE for the interaction during the Support.  Environment: MS.Net 2.0 (C#.Net, ADO.Net), Aspect, MS SQL 2012, Esker TUN.    * Created windows services to generate XML, reading data from the backend, split/Format XML into acceptable form for Record Crawler to ingest for DART application.  * These windows service are responsible to transfer files (XML, Pdf and Tiff) files to the directed folders where RC can pick these files to ingest into DART.  * Have performed the enhancements for the web service (WCF) of DA application as a scope of maintenance and support.  * Created/designed reports using Crystal reports XI, deployed/scheduled those reports in BOXI to run. Have performed monitoring and rerunning the reports which are failed.  * Have developed modules and integrated with existing Voyageur modules to handle the RTS group of products.  * Involved in design and coding to complete the RTS functionality development and integration.  * Unit testing and deploying the windows service. Maintenance and supporting the developed services whenever required.  * Responsible for creating leading junior team members in delivering solution to our customer in the Electronics sector.  * Responsible for the analysis and business impact of the Request for change as a Change Advisory Board Member  * Responsible for resolving the incidents, root cause analysis, tracking for the new changes and upgrades aspects of the production support.  * Responsible for effective communication between the production support team and the customer. Provide regular status to the customer on a weekly basis.  * Translate customer requirements into formal requirements and design documents, establish specific solutions, and leading the efforts including programming and testing that culminate in client acceptance of the results.  * Establish Quality Procedure for the team and continuously monitor and audit to ensure team meets quality goals. Senior Software Engineer Infinite Computer Solutions - Chennai, Tamil Nadu November 2009 to August 2010 Chennai, India  Worked as an IBM contract employee from Infinite Computer Solutions. As a Senior Software Engineer responsible for Analysis, design, development, testing and implementation of solutions for new implementations and upgrades for our IBM US customer Xerox Corporation    * Responsible for leading junior team members in delivering solution to our customer in the Electronics sector.  * Deliver new and complex high quality solutions to clients in response to varying business requirements  * Responsible for the analysis and business impact of the Request for change as a Change Advisory Board Member  * Responsible for resolving the incidents, root cause analysis, tracking for the new changes and upgrades aspects of the production support.  * Responsible for effective communication between the production support team and the customer. Provide regular status to the customer on a weekly basis.  * Translate customer requirements into formal requirements and design documents, establish specific solutions, and leading the efforts including programming and testing that culminate in client acceptance of the results.  * Utilize in-depth knowledge of functional and Technical experience in Microsoft Technologies and Business Objects XI in conjunction with industry and business skills to deliver solutions to customer.  * Establish Quality Procedure for the team and continuously monitor and audit to ensure team meets quality goals.  Environment: Business Objects XI, Crystal Reports Xi, C#.Net, SQL Server 2005.  Team Size: 20 Software Engineer Quintegra Solution Limited - Chennai, Tamil Nadu August 2007 to November 2009 Chennai, India  Quintegra Solutions is a health care product development company, having prestigious pharmaceutical clients like ATS USA, SRMC Chennai etc. My role is as follows:    * Handled Multiple roles and responsibilities; Team Lead, Developer for the Electronic Data Capture (EDC) software for ACORN (Accelerated Community Oncology Research Network), USA.  * Team Lead - requirements and design phases; Developed Unit Test and Configuration Plans, Reviewing Code, Prepared metrics document.  * Developer - development of the application, Build & Deployment, Prepared High- and Low-level design documents.  * Actively interacted with the Client and handled the release management  * Involved in configuration control, metrics collection, Root Cause identification & proposed the action items.  * Giving training to the juniors and Leading the team.  Environment: C#, XML, JScript, Notepad++, Study Preview Tool & MS SQL Server 2005  Team Size: 15 Software Engineer Fincom Technologies Pvt Ltd - Chennai, Tamil Nadu August 2005 to August 2007 Chennai, India    Worked as a Software engineer/team member for Fincom Technologies. Handled development and Maintenance projects. Involved in development of modules like Tender, Supply order, Alarms and administrator module.    * Creation/Review of design documents as per business requirements  * Carrying out Unit Testing  * Setting up development server and configuring the web server  * Deploying changes in staging server. Project management activities like client interaction for status reports and design discussions.  * Creation of weekly status reports for development project.  * Design the prototype of the project using HTML and Java Script  * Involved in generating and modification of DBScripts (SP's and functions).    Environment: C#.NET, ASP.NET, AJAX, XML, MS SQL Server 2000  Team Size: 15 Education Master of Computer Applications in Computer Applications Anna University - Chennai, Tamil Nadu 2005 Bachelor of Computer Science in Computer Science Bharathiar University - Coimbatore, Tamil Nadu 2002 Skills C# (10+ years), MS SQL SERVER (10+ years), SQL (10+ years), SQL SERVER (10+ years), XML (10+ years), MVC, TFS, Angularjs Certifications/Licenses ITIL v3 Present Additional Information Skill Set  RDBMS: MS SQL SERVER 2005/2012, Oracle 11.2 and MS Access 2000  Languages: C#.NET, ASP.NET, VB.NET, ADO.NET, HTML, CSS, XML, JavaScript, VBScript, jQuery, Angular JS  O/S: Windows 98/2000/XP/2003 server  Processes: IBM's QMS (Quality Management System), IPWC  Reporting: Business Object XI, Crystal Reports XI and SSRS  Tools: Visual Studio 2005/2008/2012, VSS, TFS, Record Crawler, FEM 5.2, Infragistics.