Sr. Developer Sr.<span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Developer - TitleMax Atlanta, GA • Over 8+ years of experience in Software Analysis, Design, Development, Testing and Deployment of secure, multi-tier web and client-server applications.  • Experience in diverse business sectors including Banking, Insurance, Retails & gas, Loans and Hospital Management.  • Well versed in designing, coding, implementation of Internet/Intranet Applications like Web forms and Web Services using ASP.NET MVC, ASP.NET, VB.NET, and C #.NET, ADO.NET, Microsoft SQL Server and IIS (Internet Information Services).  • Worked on developing and creating applications using ASP.NET MVC 4.0, ASP.NET 4.5/3.5/2.0/1.1 using both C#.NET and VB.NET.  • Good understanding of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), OOPS CONCEPTS, Design Pattern, Object Oriented Design (OOD) principles, Agile software development process  • Worked on N-Tier Architectures like MVC (Model View Controller), MVVM (Model View View Model) design patterns on the applications.  • Experience in developing Graphical User Interfaces using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, XAML, Silver Light and WPF.  • Hands on Experience on Knockout JS, Back Bone JS and Angular JS  • Experience in using Windows Communication Foundation (WCF) in the project for communicating and providing real time data from integrated server to Client application. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Developer TitleMax - Alpharetta, GA January 2015 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in complete SDLC, which includes Requirements Gathering, Analysis, Design, Development, Implementation, Enhancements, Maintenance, and Support.  • Created UML (Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagram, and Component Diagram) diagrams using Visio.  • Designed and Developed the GUI using the ASP.NET 3.5 features like Master Pages, CSS and HTML for achieving uniformity through all the Web pages.  • Implemented various Validation controls for client-side validation of Server Controls.  • Used ASP.NET web server controls like grid view and repeater controls to display the records.  • Implemented the application using MVC.  • Consumed Web Services for applicant Credit Verification using XML web service (SOAP).  • Involved in developing the Data Access Modules using the ADO.NET objects and SqlClient objects.  • Developed window service to schedule automated payments to deduct from employees account.  • Involved in Creating Views, Triggers, and Constraints using Oracle 10g.  • Involved in Writing Stored Procedures to update and fetch the data to and from the database.  • Implemented parameterized user defined functions, procedures and invoking events.  • Used Query Analyzer extensively for querying the database for additions and modifications.  • AJAX based ASP.Net controls were also used to give a better Interface over the web.  • Used Visual SourceSafe Version Control System as Source Code Repository.  • Involved in report generation using SSRS.  • Migrated Oracle tables in to Comma Separated values (CSV) files using SSIS.  • Implemented page level error handling using Custom Error pages and Error logs.  • Developed test cases and performed unit testing.    Environment: .Net Frame Work 2.0, Visual Studio 2008, ASP.NET, C#, SQL, Web Service, Ajax, SOAP, CSS, ADO.NET, XML, HTML, VSS 2005, Javascript, IIS 6.0, SSRS,SSIS and Oracle 10g. NET Developer TW Metals Inc - Exton, PA March 2013 to January 2015 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including analysis, design, development, and testing of the project.  • Application design Using Scrum (Agile) Model for N-tier architecture which includes UI, BLL and DAL in .NET.  • Developed application using ASP.NET MVC 4.0 to enable the full control over the rendered HTML5 and Jquery for client side scripting.  • Implemented client side validations using JQuery/Java script and ASP.NET MVC 4.0 Data annotations to do validations on the Model Data.  • Used Validation Controls in ASP.NET MVC and developed custom validation controls for validating views.  • Designing and developing rich application for Web (ASPX/Silverlight) and Windows (WPF).  • Created WPF/Silverlight applications using MVVM architecture.  • Developed system services SOA application platform for use by all web applications utilizing Windows Communication Foundation (WCF) services.  • Developed and consumed the Windows Communication Foundation (WCF) servers to push the jobs and provide the rules for downstream applications.  • Responsible for developing Windows Communication Foundation (WCF) Service Libraries to exchange data between Desktop and Central Application and implement business logic.  • Application client implemented as a multi-page, responsive solution with Knockout and jQuery.  • Heavy use of Knockout view models for separation of UI, data, and logic concerns.  • Used SOAP to Implement Web Services.  • Coded extensively in VB.NET targeting the business requirements.  • An exclusive experience working with User Controls with VB.NET code-behind files, debugging and Quality Testing of the code.  • Designed and developed Webforms using VB.Net  • Developed web pages using Java script and VBScript.  • Used JavaScript to enhance the dynamics & interactive features of web page by allowing user to perform calculations, validate form inputs, add special effects and Customize selections.  • Designed and implemented a number of support tools using ASP.NET MVC, WEB API 2, JavaScript.  • Handled XML data into SQL server for improving performance.  • Created Stored Procedures to perform automated rules, updating to related tables using SQL Server 2012 using T-SQL.  • Involved in creation of .NET XML Web Services and used AJAX for consuming Web Services.  • Used JavaScript, DHTML for client side validations and to generate user-friendly web interfaces  • Written the test cases by understanding each API and considering all the possible scenarios as per the client expectations  • Used WCF for communicating to the API and between the layers.  • Designed and Developed Winforms using C#.  • Have worked on VB6 for reporting modules  • Porting of existing VB6 Windows application to ASP.Net with MS SQL DB.  • Designed VB.NET, VB6 and Excel user interfaces for ORACLE database.  • Developed WinForm applications with significant business logic.  • Created and optimized views for user interactions using objects of HTML Helper class, Custom Helpers and Angular JavaScript, knockout Javascript/jQuery.  • Used AngularJS as the development framework to build a single-page application.  • Developed .NET web application using AngularJS, Javascript, ASP.NET MVC 4, C#, Visual Studio 2013.  • Worked on Angular JS to simplify both development and testing of such applications by providing a framework for client-side MVC architecture.  • Developed ASP.Net Web service, Web Application and Windows application using C#.Net and VB.Net in .Net framework with Entity Framework.    Environment: .Net Framework 4.5, C# 4.5, ASP.Net, ASP.Net MVC, MSMQ, AJAX, JQuery, WCF, Web Services, WPF, VB.NET, SVN, SQL RDBMS, MS-SQL Server 2012, SOA, Entity Framework, Visual Basic 6, HTML5, WinForms, Knockout JS, Oracle 10g, C#.NET, API, SSRS, SSIS, VB6, Javascript, JQTreeView, JQBlockUI, NUnit, Microsoft Outlook, IIS 7.5, T-SQL, PL-SQL, Web API 2, VB Script. Software Developer Utica Insurance - New York, NY September 2011 to March 2013 Utica Insurance is one of the largest insurers in the nation and since several years it has been developing applications for processing financial business. The project is mainly used by the customers and the financial staff for maintaining the details of various personal information and different insurance policies, payment history, and billing cycle. It also allows searching policies depending upon various search criteria. With this the end users and customer care staff can make online payments and has an administration module which is used for creating users, groups and career. It also provides reports for down payment, online payment and new business.  Responsibilities:  • Fixing and optimizing ASP.net web pages using C# and SQL Server 2012 stored procedures, and associating fixes/new code with tasks in Team Foundation Server.  • Creating and modifying Silverlight controls, including extending the DataGrid control contained in the Silverlight Control Toolkit.  • Created Web Forms for applications like FICS and Mortgage builder.  • Worked in MVC architecture to create web applications using AJAX Extensions.  • Used Windows API to manage the users from Active Directory.  • Creating new pages and fixing bugs on existing pages  • Optimizing, debugging and creating T-SQL stored procedures in SQL 2008 R2.  • Worked on PL/SQL queries to retrieve data from Oracle9i.  • Interviewing other programmers and laying out work for a junior programmer. I also created our team's programming interview.  • Designing, building and testing a reusable Excel XML Spreadsheet component in Visual Studio 2008 to fit with the existing paradigm of the system  • Performing and participating in code reviews  • Writing test plans and assisting with Requirements documents  • Along with other Sr. Programmers, making regular recommendations on tools and technologies  • Writing unit tests using N-Unit and Visual Studio 2012 and for SQL using SQL-Unit.  • For the 2005 assignment, pair-programmed with offshore programmers using NetMeeting. For the 2008 assignment, I work mostly locally with others or alone.  • Extracted data from FICS, Mortgage Builder into Oracle using Sql Server Integration Services.  • Used Transformations like lookup, derived column, data conversion, merge join to implement the applications.  • Worked on Query Optimization to improve the performance of Queries.    Environment: ASP.NET, C#, ADO.NET, Visual Studio.NET 2012, MVC 2.0, T- SQL, XML, SQL Server 2012,Oracle 9i, IIS. NET Developer CONSTELLATION ENERGY GROUP - Louisville, KY May 2010 to July 2011 Constellation Energy Group is a leading supplier of energy products and services to wholesale and retail electric and natural gas customers.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC),created UML Diagrams like Use Case Diagrams, Class Diagrams which were used in developing and testing application  • Created Developed Business components for Inventory Monitoring, Order Tracking, Reporting modules using .NET framework 3.5, C#, Visual Studio2008.  • Involved in designing the Web pages/forms/User Interfaces(UI) using HTML, XHTML, CSS, jQuery, Web server controls  • Developed Web User Controls and Custom Controls, Master Pages  • Implemented Form Based Authentication and Role Based Authorization for employees in the organization  • ASP.NET AJAX Controls like Update Panel, Cascading Dropdown List were used in Inventory Monitoring' and 'Order Tracking'  • Responsible for Developing and Maintaining SharePoint Site using MOSS for Sharing the Team Documents and Work Flow of the Project maintenance  • SQL Server 2005 was used as a database repository; LINQ to SQL was used in developing data access layer along with ADO.NET Objects like Data Set, Data Adapters.  • Implemented SOAP based WCF (Windows Communication Foundation) web services in Reporting Module to capture the data from database  • Generated reports of the Inventory using Crystal Reports 10.0 and exported into various other formats such as MS EXCEL  • Developed complex T-SQL Stored Procedures, triggers, views to capture and modify data  • Developed Reports using SSRS(SQL Server Reporting Services) and SSIS(SQL Server Integration Services) for thorough analysis of Inventory  • Actively Involved in writing Technical Specifications and Documentation of the project  • Visual Source Safe has been used for all the source code maintenance among the whole team members.    Environment: Visual Studio 2008 and 2012 IDE, ASP.NET 3.5, C#.NET, SQL Server 2005, ADO.NET, JavaScript, IIS 7.0, WCF Web services, XML, SOAP, CSS, HTML, jQuery, AJAX, Design Patterns and UML, MS-VISIO. NET Developer Florida Medical Center October 2009 to April 2010 Its a Hospital Management software. This Application provides information about Medical Services, Physician Directory, Inpatients, Outpatients, Payments, Medicines, User Accounts, Pharmacy, Blood Bank, Ambulance etc. The Objective of the Project is to provide overall Hospital Details with search Functionalities with the ease of maintenance.  Responsibilities  • Involved in the complete Software Development Life Cycle including Analysis, Design, Implementation, Testing and Maintenance.  • Done with the production support for the project.  • Worked on 3-tier architecture.  • Developed solutions for diverse programming scenarios in C#, employing Object Oriented Programming (OOP) concepts such as: encapsulation, inheritance, polymorphism, and abstraction.  • Experience in programming web based applications in C#.Net, VB.Net in a Multi-Tier environment with focus on using an Oracle database.  • Designed the UI using the ASP.NET, HTML, JQuery, CSS, Web Forms and the AJAX controls.  • Extensively worked with Partial Pages, Layouts, Sections to design the CSHTML pages with Razor Engine to get consistent look and feel.  • Extensively used JQuery UI controls and used JQuery to validate HTML DOM.  • Created and maintained database objects like complex Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Tables, Views and SQL Joins.  • Created the link servers to pull the data from different data sources and used them in the stored procedure which will be executing on the scheduled basis through SQL agent.  • Written Queries using PL-SQL Statements, Views, User Defined Functions, Stored Procedures, Triggers in ORACLE 10g for inserting/Updating/Deleting the data into the relational tables.  • Worked Extensively with Query Optimization Techniques to Fetch Data with better Performance Tuning.  • Responsible for maintaining versions of source code using TFS.  • Involved in Deployment and Troubleshooting issues in the application.  • Involved in writing technical specifications design document, deployment documents and operations guide for operation support.  • Supported Operations team during the deployment and troubleshooting the production issues during deployment and on regular basis.    Environment: .NET FRAMEWORK 4.0/3.5, JQuery, ASP.NET 4.0/3.5, ADO.NET, C#.NET, ASP.Net, WINDOWS SERVER 2008,Visual Studio, SQL SERVER 2008, AJAX, TFS, XML, HTML, IIS 7.0, JAVASCRIPT, CSS, WEB SERVICES Software Developer First Service Networks July 2008 to September 2009 Responsibilities:  • Designed and Developed the Sales tools Application using C#.NET, ASP.NET, AJAX and ADO.NET  • Involved in all phases of project lifecycle SDLC i.e. requirement gathering, analysis, design, application development and testing for the project.  • Developed the role based authorization for accessing the sales tool.  • Developed GUI using ASP.NET, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Jquery, and Custom controls.  • Developed web pages and validated these pages using ASP.NET and JavaScript.  • Extensively used Data Adapter, Data Set, Data Table, Data View, Data Grid, Data List, Data Repeater and Data Reader for binding data from database to the various web forms.  • Wrote T-SQL queries, T-SQL Stored Procedures and Triggers, executed against SQL Server 2008 database in order to extract the appropriate data for each report.  • Generated the reports using SSRS.  • Designed Web Services for payment methods for the customers.  • Created User controls (.ascx) for using on multiple web forms in the application.  • Used Java Script and AJAX for Client side events, styling and Validations on the data prior to being submitted to the database.  • Used XML formats in transferring the data through the WCF service.  • Involved in using the Microsoft Enterprise Library to implement the database connectivity, Encrypting/Decrypting and caching in the web application.  • Responsible for application support by performing root cause analysis and bugs fixing for that was raised as program change requests. Software Programmer Improvement Interactive - Tucson, AZ September 2006 to June 2008 Responsibilities:  • Involved in design, development, testing and quality assurance of the product.  • Used C#.Net, ASP.Net for GUI design and business logic implementation.  • Used webservicesto interact with the business layer.  • Unique experience of working on all 3 tiers of the application facing key challenges on Business and Database layers.  • Created Oracle Queries and store procedures for back end (Oracle 9i).  • This project involves the development of a three - tier application.  • The client layer has been developed using ASP.Net and Oracle 9i code behind for content presentation.  • Used Cascading Style Sheet (CSS) to attain uniformity through all the pages.  • Responsible for developing and implementing Workflows.  • Created Document libraries, Form libraries on SharePointServer2003.  • Designed user interface using ASP.NET  • The middle layer provides the business logic.  • The server layer consists of Oracle 9i.    Environment: ASP.Net, C#.Net, Web Services, SharePoint Server 2003, MSBuilt, ORACLE 9i, SQL Server 2000, JavaScript, CSS, WINDOWS 2000, ORACLE 9i, IIS 6.0. Education Bachelor's Skills .NET (10+ years), ASP (10+ years), ASP.NET (10+ years), C# (10+ years), MS ASP (10+ years) Additional Information Technical skills:-  Languages C, C++, C#, VB.NET, SQL, VB Script, Java Script, XML, XSL, HTML5, DHTML.  Microsoft Technologies  .NET Framework 1.x/2.0/3.0/3.5/4.0/4.5, Visual studio 2003/2005/2008/2010/2012, ADO.NET, VB 6.0, ASP.NET 1.1/2.0/3.5,4.5, ASP.NET MVC 1.0/2.0/3.0/4.0, MS-Office (Excel, Word, Power Point Access), WCF, WPF, MVC, MVVM, AJAX.    Databases SQL Server 2000/2005/2008/2012, Oracle 8i/9i/10g/11g, MS-Access,  Webservers Internet Information Server (IIS).  Operating Systems Windows NT/95/98/2000/XP, Linux, UNIX and MS-DOS.  Reporting Tools SSRS, Crystal Reports  Version Controls Team Foundation Server, Visual Source Safe 6.0  XMLRelated Technologies XML, XSL, XSLT, XPath, XPointer, SOAP, WSDL