Software Engineer <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Brazil, IN Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Engineer myCOI - Indianapolis, In November 2017 to Present • Develop and implement 3rd party integrations into the myCOI product using Rest API’s to create, update, delete client’s information within the myCOI product and 3rd party applications using C#.  • Hold and lead design meetings to update current infrastructure to allow for multiple clients to run multiple 3rd party integrations at once.  • Create and maintain user tasks within Jira to be completed during a sprint, while conducting code reviews with co-workers.  • Designed standalone application to decrypt local files and convert to a predefined format and transfer them to Google cloud.  • Optimized code to allow for increased performance by means of multi-threading, filtering criteria, updating stored procedures, and creating indexes.  • Find, diagnose and remediate bugs within the current application.  Software Developer InfraWare - Terre May 2016 to November 2017 • VB.Net Visual Studio 2008-2015 Web Application development using ASP, Microsoft SQL 2008 and MVC.  • Data independence, relational model, relational algebra and calculus, query languages and SQL.  • Develop and maintain reports using SQL Server Reporting services.  • Object-oriented programming and design, program development, validation, testing, debugging, documentation, maintenance, SDLC, array processing, and information pertinent to assessing and designing information systems, and dynamic memory allocation.  • Review code and assessed it for system bugs and malfunctions Desk Sergeant U.S Air Force 2002 to 2013 Patrolled routes and buildings for the Presidents of the United States  • Secured over 300 million dollars in air refueling assets  • Implemented and secured security check points  • Evaluated and prepared performance reports on 5 to 10 personnel  • Directly supervised 25 to 40 personnel in Law Enforcement and Security operation daily  • Provided work assignments and disciplined 5 to 10 personnel Security team Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science Indiana State University - Terre Haute, IN Master's in Cyber Security Maryville University of Saint Louis Skills .NET, ASP, SQL, VISUAL STUDIO, ASSEMBLY, C#, Javascript, Linq, Kendo, Linux, C, Microsoft Office, Entity Framework, JQuery, Model View Controller (MVC), NET, Git, CSS Military Service Branch: Air Force Service Country: United States Rank: SSgt February 2002 to December 2013 Additional Information OOP, C/C++, JavaScript, Basic, Html, CSS, ASP, Visual Studio, SQL, Team Foundation Server, SSRS, XML, Unix/Linux, GDB Debugger, Microsoft Office Suite, Assembly, Leadership