Technical Lead Technical Lead Technical Lead - Axis Capital Insurance Alpharetta, GA ? Microsoft Certified Full-Stack Application Developer and Technical Leader with ten years of IT industry experience in developing software's in web based, windows based and applications on service-oriented architecture.  ? Have exposure to multiple domains like Retail, Telecommunications & Property Insurance.  ? Have extensive experience working throughout the project lifecycle, which includes phases like requirement gathering from business in detailed manner and then documenting those in High- level and Low-level design documents, development, testing and deployment.  ? Involved in designing and providing solution along with Architects in team. Also, for scoping and estimating the requirements with Project Managers.  ? Comprehensive & widespread knowledge of multiple skills in Dot Net, database designing, performance optimization techniques, Object-Oriented Programming and Design patterns.  ? Extensive experience in Web & Windows based application using ASP.Net MVC, ASP.Net, C#, VB.Net, XML, JavaScript, JQuery, HTML, CSS, JSON, Restful & SOAP Services, SQL Server.  ? Developed Continuous Integration & Continuous Delivery strategies using Visual Studio Team Foundation Server.  ? Working Knowledge of using multiple Testing frameworks like xUnit , NUnit, MOQ.  ? Thoroughly involved in client interactions, managing team, training team members and presenting requirement to various teams involved.  ? Possess good communication skills, interpersonal skills, analytical skills, team player, self-motivated and quick learner. Work Experience Technical Lead Axis Capital Insurance - Alpharetta, GA January 2011 to Present Project Description  G3P (Global Property Pricing) is web-based solution allowing policy underwriters and actuaries to evaluate review and rate policy premium of existing / prospective clients. The policy premium is calculated based on loss evaluation derived from factors defined in system for non-catastrophic events and integration with tools like AIR Touchstone and RMS RiskLink for catastrophic events. The application is also integrated with Google Maps API to plot location details of property and show other metadata.  The application is developed on .Net framework 4.5 for Restful web services using Web API and Angular JS as client application framework.    Project Responsibilities  Development:  - Analysis, Design, Development, Deployment and Support of projects.  - Create mock-ups for new UI using Balsamiq and present to product owners.  - Involvement in Business meeting/discussion with product owners.  - Design and Develop UI using HTML, AngularJS & REST services using Web API for new project requirements.  - Writing complex stored procedures to calculate event loss and generating pricing reports.  - Extensively used Object-Oriented, LINQ, Partial Classes, Generics and Interfaces concepts for developing the application.  - Responsible for creating Unit test cases for newly implemented modules.  - Responsible to provide code reviews.    Deployment:  - Worked independently and handled deployment of application and services in Dev & Test environments.  - Responded to multiple and conflicting requests under tight deadlines in a dynamic working environment.  - Execution of DB Scripts and deploying services on different servers.  - Analyzed deployment processes and schedules and identified areas of risks or conflicts.  - Worked on numerous packaging and application issues and provided stable and efficient problem resolutions.  - Perform branching and merging activities to release new features in higher environments. Technical Lead AT&T - Atlanta, GA September 2016 to June 2018 Project Description  PACE (Program Administration and Controls for the Enterprise) Proliance delivers a robust and consolidated project management solution to users, by providing automations, interfaces and critical job related data in one tool, thus moving the build tracking processes into a new era. It offers a broad set of features across major functional areas (Job, Schedule, Program, Change Management, Budget & Visibility and Reporting) that will enable more effective and efficient project management.  PACE Proliance improves existing efficiencies, drives accountability around managing activities related to network construction projects and provides flexibility in supporting the day-to-day activities of the market and region, while still enforcing national and regulatory standards.  The application is developed on .Net framework 4.5 and Silverlight UI with Telerik RadControl (3rd Party Control). The application is in transition phase from Silverlight to Angular app to make it more light weight and adhere to new web standards.    Project Responsibilities  Development:  - Analysis, Design, Development, Deployment and Support of projects.  - Involved in architecture design and technical approach for a major release.  - Maintained knowledge of agile methodology and ensured efficiency.  - Involvement in Business meeting/discussion with end client/onshore team.  - Created detailed technical design documents.  - Designed and Developed Silverlight UI, User controls using C# for new project requirements using MVVM design patterns.  - Core team member of migration of current application to new Web Standards Angular & HTML5 with Kendo UI 3rd party control.  - Extensively used Object-Oriented, LINQ, Partial Classes, Generics and Interfaces concepts for developing the application.  - Responsible for creating Unit test cases for newly implemented modules.  - Responsible to provide code reviews.    Deployment:  - Worked independently and handled deployment of application and services in Test, Training and Production environments.  - Responded to multiple and conflicting requests under tight deadlines in a dynamic working environment.  - Execution of DB Scripts and deploying services on different servers.  - Analyzed deployment processes and schedules and identified areas of risks or conflicts.  - Defined build and deployment process, policies and procedures such as build schedule, release notes and checklists.  - Worked on numerous packaging and application issues and provided stable and efficient problem resolutions.  - Monitoring and validating configuration item check-in process. Technical Lead BestBuy - Richfield, MN June 2013 to September 2016 Project Description  Field Management Services (FMS) application is built on Microsoft .Net Technology and MVPC framework. The application is used by Best Buy agents for scheduling, routing and dispatch of orders for home delivery. There are various vendors which are integrated within application which provides appointment schedules for agents to work on delivery and repair order.    Project Responsibilities  Development:  - Analysis, Design, Development, Deployment and Support of projects.  - Involved in architecture design and technical approach for a major release.  - Maintained knowledge of SDLC methodology and ensured efficiency.  - Involvement in Business meeting/discussion with end client/onshore team.  - Created detailed technical design documents like AP350 and AP320.  - Designed and Developed Web UI, User controls using C# for new project requirements using MVPC design patterns.  - Designed and Developed Restful / SOAP Web Services using WCF & traditional ASMX.  - Extensively used Object-Oriented, LINQ, Partial Classes, Generics and Interfaces concepts for developing the application.  - Responsible for creating Unit test cases for newly implemented modules.  - Responsible to provide code reviews.    Deployment:  - Automated MANUAL build process using TFS Continuous Build Integration process.  - Worked independently and handled deployment of application and services in Test, Training and Production environments.  - Responded to multiple and conflicting requests under tight deadlines in a dynamic working environment.  - Execution of DB Scripts and deploying services on different servers.  - Analyzed deployment processes and schedules and identified areas of risks or conflicts.  - Defined build and deployment process, policies and procedures such as build schedule, release notes and checklists.  - Worked on numerous packaging and application issues and provided stable and efficient problem resolutions.  - Creation of CRs/Incidents and coordinating with 3rd Party vendors for other deployment activities.  - Monitoring and validating configuration item check-in process.  - Other activities involved branching, merging, labeling and managing work items in TFS. Team Lead BestBuy - Richfield, MN June 2015 to February 2016 Project Description  Field Management Services (FMS) application is built on Microsoft .Net Technology and MVPC framework. The application is used by Best Buy agents for scheduling, routing and dispatch of orders for home delivery. There are various vendors which are integrated within application which provides appointment schedules for agents to work on delivery and repair order. As part of FMS Platform Upgrade project, we were required to migrate ongoing application from WIN 2008 to WIN 2012. The entire project had following activities to be perform to a smooth and successfully release.    1. Migration of 8 environments (DEV, TEST, PROD TEST, PROD TEST2, STAGING, PROD LIKE, TRANING, PROD) which had 62 application servers and 12 database servers.  2. Migration of database connectivity to interfacing middleware application such as Informatica, AppTalk and application server connectivity to Layer 7.  3. Setting up Continuous Deployment on application servers using TFS builds.  4. Creating new SHA 2 certificates for application servers and checking compatibility with interfacing application and database.  5. Configuring SPLUNK monitoring tool for production support to perform log analysis and monitoring activities.  6. Performance test application on new servers.    Project Responsibilities:  Development / Deployment:  - Leading the team from client location and coordinated with offshore team on daily activities and task.  - Work with Project Manager, Application Architect, Middleware and Vendor Teams to lay down the migration plan.  - Closely working with DBA team to configure Transaction, Replication and Archival DB instances for all environments.  - Closely working with DBA team to formalize a process and structure to perform DB archival in all environments.  - Coordinate with Middleware teams (Informatica & AppTalk, Layer 7) to ensure DB connectivity and Server connectivity is successful.  - Coordinate with Middleware team to perform validation activity for each environment.  - Working with Network team to form new Load-Balancer VIP for application servers.  - Working with Network and Infrastructure team to execute plan for IP Swapping activity during production switch over.  - Closely working with Performance Engineering team to test application performance and resolve bottlenecks or performance issues encountered. Senior Software Developer BestBuy - Mumbai, Maharashtra March 2011 to May 2013 India    Project Description:  NOVA is an extreme makeover application developed in Microsoft .Net technology. NOVA is a re-engineered product developed by understanding the legacy application developed in AMDOCS Clarify CRM. NOVA is a web based application with Silverlight as user interface. It is used across stores on KIOSK and PRECINCT by agents. It's a consultative process in which agent gathers information from customer about the product. Later the same information is used for carrying out proper repair activities.    Roles & Responsibilities:  Development:  - Analysis, Design, Development, Deployment and Support of projects.  - Estimating the efforts required for developing a user story in sprint planning meeting.  - Involved in architecture design and technical approach for a major release.  - Maintained knowledge of Agile Scrum methodology and ensured efficiency.  - Involvement in Business meeting/discussion with end client/onshore team.  - Created detailed technical design documents like AP350 and AP320.  - Designed and Developed UI (Silverlight), User controls using C# for new project requirements MVVM design patterns.  - Designed and Developed Restful Web Services using MVC & WCF.  - Extensively used Object-Oriented, LINQ, Partial Classes, Generics and Interfaces concepts for developing the application.  - Created re-usable extended controls (DataGridView with filters, Extended Tab Controls) for one and more crucial projects.  - Responsible for creating Unit test cases for newly implemented modules.  - Responsible to provide code reviews.    Deployment:  - Automated MANUAL build process using TFS Continuous Build Integration process.  - Worked independently and handled deployment of application and services in Test, Training and Production environments.  - Responded to multiple and conflicting requests under tight deadlines in a dynamic working environment.  - Execution of DB Scripts and deploying services on different servers.  - Analyzed deployment processes and schedules and identified areas of risks or conflicts.  - Defined build and deployment process, policies and procedures such as build schedule, release notes and checklists.  - Worked on numerous packaging and application issues and provided stable and efficient problem resolutions.  - Creation of CRs/Incidents and coordinating with 3rd Party vendors for other deployment activities.  - Monitoring and validating configuration item check-in process.  - Other activities involved branching, merging, labeling and managing work items in TFS. Senior Software Developer BestBuy - Mumbai, Maharashtra May 2012 to November 2012 Name: Field Management System (FMS) Application Framework Upgrade  Start Date: 28-May-2012 End date: 30-Nov-2012  Role: Senior Software Developer  Location: Mumbai, India    Project Description:  Field Management Services (FMS) application is built on Microsoft .Net Technology and MVPC framework. The application is used by Best Buy agents for scheduling, routing and dispatch of orders for home delivery. There are various vendors which are integrated within application which provides appointment schedules for agents to work on delivery and repair order. The primary goal of FMS Application Upgrade project was to,  1. Upgrade application .net framework from v2.0 to v.40 and remove obsolete code without impacting existing application performance / functionality.  2. Eliminate and remove dependencies of Telerik RadControls to remove licensing cost and achieve same functionality using .Net User Controls.  3. Setup Team Foundation Server as ALM, and to implement continuous integration & continuous deployment.    Roles & Responsibilities:  Development / Deployment:  - Leading a team of 4 from client location and performing daily coordination with team.  - Discussing and documenting best practices with Application Architect and Offshore leads.  - Setting up continuous integration environment for 5 solutions.  - Implement TFS Best Practices for source code repository.  - Implement TFS Best Practices for project management.  - Creating custom re-usable components as an alternative for Telerik RAD Control.  - Resolve critical integration issues which occurred during the testing phase of migration project.  - Coordinating and working closely with infrastructure team to get the required components installed on server for IIS configuration.  - Highlighting achievements / risks / issues about on-going activities to Project Managers, Architects, Application team.  - Transitioning underwent changes to production support team. Software Developer OSS SoftTech - IN August 2009 to January 2011 India    Roles & Responsibilities at OSSSofttech  - Closely working with clients to understand their requirements.  - Documenting functional & technical aspects for each requirement.  - Responsible for leading the team, conducting session for transitioning functional requirements within team and help them resolve their technical queries.  - Responsible for handling continuous change request and incorporating it in the part of the development phase.  - Communicate regular activities/progress to project managers and leads. Software Developer OSS SoftTech - Mumbai, Maharashtra August 2009 to January 2011 India    Project Description  MobileSeva is an online platform for distributors for recharging MobileServices, DTHServices and CallingCard. The application facilitated various operators in all the mentioned categories. It contained various web services calls and integration of payment gateway.    Project Responsibilities  - Understanding and implementing the requirement & client interaction  - Net Development (VB) & Database Development (SQL Server)  - Create low level design for new requirements / enhancements.  - Create database scripts for projects.  - Design and Code reviews.  - Deploying application to various environment  - Post-Production Support for application. Software Developer OSS SoftTech - Mumbai, Maharashtra August 2009 to January 2011 India    Project Description  MyBillSeva is an online platform for distributors for paying customer bills / insurance premiums. It facilitated various billers which proved beneficial for distributors to access all billers through one UI and serve better.    Project Responsibilities  - Understanding and implementing the requirement & client interaction  - Net Development (VB) & Database Development (SQL Server)  - Create low level design for new requirements / enhancements.  - Create database scripts for projects.  - Design and Code reviews.  - Deploying application to various environment  - Post-Production Support for application. Software Developer Magnet Technologies - IN May 2008 to July 2009 India    Roles & Responsibilities at Magnet Technologies  - Bi-weekly meeting with client to touch base on the progress and get clarification on the requirements.  - Documenting functional & technical aspects for each requirement.  - Responsible for handling continuous change request and incorporating it in the part of the development phase.  - Developing web application on ASP.Net C# Software Developer Magnet Technologies - Mumbai, Maharashtra May 2008 to July 2009 India    Project Description  CommunityCanvas is web based application featured for showcasing art and follow and connect artist among the community. Artists & art lover from various fields were the targeted audience.    Project Responsibilities:  - Understanding and implementing the requirement & client interaction  - Net Development (VB) & Database Development (SQL Server)  - Create low level design for new requirements / enhancements.  - Create database scripts for projects.  - Design and Code reviews. Software Developer Magnet Technologies - Mumbai, Maharashtra May 2008 to July 2009 India    Project Description  eNotes is sharepoint webpart developed for a educational institute. The purpose of webpart was to ease the communication between group of students amongst their / desired classmates or teachers.  Project Responsibilities:  - Understanding and implementing the requirement & client interaction  - SharePoint Custom Web Part Development & SharePoint Workflow Development  - RESP API Using JavaScript AJAX.  - Create low level design for new requirements / enhancements.  - Create database scripts for projects.  - Design and Code reviews. Software Developer Magnet Technologies - Mumbai, Maharashtra May 2008 to July 2009 India    Project Description  WorryNotes is sharepoint webpart developed for a educational institute similar to eNotes. The application was targeted for students who can seek help from teachers amongst their institute at any point.    Project Responsibilities:  - Understanding and implementing the requirement & client interaction  - SharePoint Custom Web Part Development & SharePoint Workflow Development  - RESP API Using JavaScript AJAX.  - Create low level design for new requirements / enhancements.  - Create database scripts for projects.  - Design and Code reviews. Education Master's in Computer Science in Computer Science University Of Mumbai - Mumbai, Maharashtra 2008 Bachelor's in Computer Science in Computer Science Bhavans College, University of Mumbai - Mumbai, Maharashtra 2006 Skills Net (10+ years), architecture (10+ years), deployment (10+ years), UI (10+ years), user interface. (10+ years), C#, Angular, WCF, MVC, Jquery, Javascript Additional Information Skill Set    Languages & Frameworks: ASP.NET, C#.NET, LINQ, XML, Silverlight, JavaScript, SOAP  Services, REST Services, WEB API, WCF, MVC, Dot Net Remoting, Dot Net Core HTML, Angular JS,  Angular, Grunt, Web Pack, Typescript, jQuery, JSON, CSS, Bootstrap, SharePoint.  Database: SQL Server 2008 and above, MongoDB.  Source Control: Team Foundation Server, Git Repository, Tortoise SVN.  Build & Deployment: Team Foundation Server Builds, MS Build, Web Deploy, Jenkins.  Analytics Platform: Splunk, Elastic Stack.  Catastrophe Modelling: AIR Touchstone.  IDE / Tools: MS Visual Studio 2010 and above, Node Package Manager, Fiddler, SOAP UI, MS  Visio.    Other Skills: Agile Development, Software Architecture, DevOps Engineering, Release Management, Change Management.  Domain: Retail, Telecommunication, Property Insurance.