Senior Software Engineer Senior <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Software Engineer Lawrence, MA I provide stable, robust software solutions.    Collaborate well with technical and non-technical stakeholders to clearly define project requirements. Apply intuitive thinking skills to design, develop, implement, document, and support IT solutions. Reliable technical leadership with thorough and constructive assessment of team goals. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Software Engineer PEARSON EDUCATION - Boston, MA January 2017 to March 2019 Provided problem management and product support for Revel interactive learning environment for higher education.  • Directed development efforts toward most significant support issues by associating customer support tickets with root cause components and reporting monthly and quarterly on those components.  • Facilitated easy location of customer support tickets by developing reports and filters for support systems.  • Led initiative that resulted in more timely ticket handling and better documentation by India-based product support team as liaison to that team. Mid-Level Software Engineer SOVOS COMPLIANCE - Wilmington, MA February 2015 to January 2017 Developed and supported TaxSolver sales tax filing application, which is utilized in-house to provide tax filing services to clients and installed at customer sites. Acted as team resource for database and SQL issues. Technologies: VB.NET, MS SQL Server, Subversion, git, Sourcetree, Jenkins.  • Improved efficiency and morale of in-house tax-filing team by enhancing and stabilizing TaxSolver.  • Provided rapid resolution of escalations, minimizing disruptions of in-house processing. Software Developer IMEDIA SOLUTIONS - Dartmouth, MA August 2012 to December 2014 Oversaw project detailed designs, time estimates, client communication and open-source web application development. Acted as in-house relational database and SQL consultant on all projects. Technologies: node.js, Express, LAMP stack, MySQL, JavaScript, jQuery, HTML5, CSS3, JSON, Python, WordPress, git.  • Contributed to improved database design on all projects by demonstrating value of properly crafted database schemas, resulting in projects with more efficient database operation.  • Reduced errors in user interfaces by detailed validation of developed UIs against design specs prior to delivery.  • Wrote Python script to generate database update query from raw data input, to update pricing information on e-commerce website. Script was reused as needed.  • Developed full-stack website to externalize proprietary mosquito genetics data derived from experiments by Harvard genetics lab, allowing lab to rapidly search on and filter their data. SELF-EMPLOYED SELF-EMPLOYED - Andover, MA January 2007 to August 2012 Day-Trader (Futures)  Bought and sold futures contracts. Developed C# indicators and strategies usable within NinjaTrader trading platform. Senior member of NinjaTrader Support Forum. Consultant THE TRADING ZONE - Montréal, QC January 2011 to January 2012 Worked from home (Massachusetts) part time providing proof-of-concept for potential new trading approaches by designing and developing C# indicators and strategies for NinjaTrader trading software. Delivered rapid on-boarding to new members of The Trading Zone via remote login by installing trading charts constructed in accordance with TTZ's trading methodology. Software Developer ADVANCED TECHNICAL SOLUTIONS, INC - Acton, MA June 1998 to December 2006 Programmer for AdVisor newspaper classified advertising product. On-site discovery of customer-specific requirements. Participated in product installations at customer sites. Provided technical support to sales and marketing teams during trade shows and technical conferences. Technologies: VB6, MS SQL Server, MS Access, Sybase, Crystal Reports.  • Enhanced AdVisor billing capabilities by designing and developing accounts receivable (A/R) add-on package for AdVisor.  • Provided real-time monitoring of classified ad takers' productivity by designing and developing AdVisor Performance Manager application.  • Provided needed business information by developing AdVisor reports packages based on customer requirements. Education Bachelor's in Mathematics Case Western Reserve University - Cleveland, OH Skills MS ACCESS (9 years), MS SQL SERVER (5 years), MYSQL (2 years), Git (4 years), Javascript (2 years), Vb.Net (2 years), VB6 (9 years), Crystal Reports (9 years), HTML (2 years), CSS (2 years), Node.js (2 years), Sybase (9 years) Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/mfsasso