Senior Software Developer Senior <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Software Developer - Alegeus Technologies LLC Bedford, MA 1. 8+ years of experience in Windows Development and 3+ years of experience in ASP.NET MVC development using Microsoft Technologies.  2. Master's degree in Computer Science and BS in Engineering.  3. Proficient Knowledge of multi-tier architecture, client server programming, relational databases and OO concepts.  4. Helped to perform QA tasks in an Agile environment  5. Interim Security Clearance  6. Hard worker, very good team player, Self-motivated, excellent time management and problem solving skills, focused on achieving objectives. Work Experience Senior Software Developer Alegeus Technologies LLC - Waltham, MA September 2018 to Present Wealthcare Administration: A web-based consumer directed healthcare solution: ASP.NET, Web API/ C# / SQL Server / Third party controls  Worked on Wealthcare Administration Application at Alegeus. Alegeus is the market leader in consumer directed healthcare solutions, offering the industry's most comprehensive platform for the administration of healthcare benefit accounts, the industry's most widely-used benefit debit card, and powerful engagement solutions to help consumers maximize savings and optimize spending for their healthcare. Worked in all aspects of the application like UI, middle layer and database side.  Important projects:  • Contributed in coding, testing, installation and support of enhancements to Consumer Driven Healthcare Products  • Responsible for design, development and maintenance of applications/tools using .NET technologies  • Worked with and monitored Offshore development teams.  • Worked in fast paced SWAT team to fix operations tickets reported by clients  • Contributed to all aspects of the application to do enhancement and fix existing bugs.  • Performed Quality Assurance duties when needed including writing and executing test cases  This is an ASP.NET application. The product is based upon built in .NET controls, third party Telerik Kendo controls, SQL Server 2014, RESTful WebApi Services. Software Developer Change Healthcare - Waltham, MA February 2014 to July 2018 Risk Manager: A web-based application for Providers: ASP.NET MVC ANGULAR 5.0, Web API/ C# / SQL Server / Third party controls  Worked on Risk Manager, an application for providers helping them successfully manage changing payment models, while improving the quality and cost of care. Worked in all aspects of the application like UI, middle layer and database side.  Important projects:  • Contributed to the rebranding and reskinning project. When the company changed from McKesson to Change healthcare, the look and feel of the application needed to be changed. My contribution includes implementation of new logos and new design standards for the UI, update css for the new look and feel etc.  • Contributed to an enhancement project which involved writing a web api service to retrieve the data from the database and feed it to the UI. The UI was created using Angular 5.0. My contribution includes implementation of a UI screen using Angular 5.0  • Contributed to the database side to add/update stored procedures to process data that's used by the application.  • Contributed to creating some views for the datamart which were made available to the clients to query the data.  • Contributed to all aspects of the application to do enhancement and fix existing bugs.  • helped from time to time to test the application  This is an ASP.NET MVC application. The product is based upon built in .NET controls, third party Telerik Kendo controls, SQL Server 2008.    • Population Manager: A web-based application for Population Health: ASP.NET MVC/ C# / SQL Server / Third party controls  Worked on Population Manager, an application guiding population health management, that automates acquiring and aggregation of both clinical and financial data to create a holistic view of the patients within a healthcare network. Worked in all aspects of the application like UI, back end and ETL side.  Important projects implemented:  • Created a secure WCF service with client/server authentication to receive an Xds.b message that contains encrypted CCD. The CCD is extracted from the message and passed in to Rhapsody for further processing.  • Contributed to the ETL side to add/update stored procedures to extract, transform and load the data from staging database to relational database that's used by the application.  • Writing a console application which is scheduled to run every night to process ADT and SIU messages.  • Contributed to the UI side of the Population Manager application to do some enhancement and fix existing bugs.  This is an ASP.NET MVC application. The product is based upon built in .NET controls, third party Telerik Kendo controls, SQL Server 2008. Software Developer Amerisource Bergen - Intrinsiq LLC - Burlington, MA October 2005 to January 2014 Intellidose: A stand-alone application for oncology: VB.NET / C# / SQL Server / Third party controls  Worked on Intellidose, a leading clinical oncology information solution, that automates the clinical practice of oncology from the assignment of therapy to the calculation of chemotherapy doses to the documentation of care. Expert in incorporating third party controls in the application (for example, ComponentOne and Infragistics winform controls).  Primary responsibilities:  • Adding new features to the Intellidose software  • Fixing any bugs in the existing and new functionality  • Building interfaces to exchange data to and from other Electronic Health Record systems using hl7 and some discrete API calls  • Converting some COM UI WinForm controls to .NET WinForm controls  • Writing unit tests  • Helped converting the code from VB.NET to C#  • Occasionally helping the QA team for testing the application  This is a .NET windows based application. The product is based upon built in .NET controls, some third party user controls, our own user controls, SQL Server 2005. Associate Developer (XML) Argosy Publishing - Newton, MA July 2004 to December 2004 • Contract assignment XML Spy, Adobe Framemaker  • Translation of print content into electronic format using XML (XMLSpy)  • Examination of XML code to ensure publishing quality requirements were met  Work done in school Waltham, Massachusetts Sept 02 -Dec 03  • Sept 2003 - Dec 2003:    Worked as a TA for Data Structures and Algorithms class (taught in C).  • Sept 2002 - May 2003:    Worked on http://medstract.med.tufts.edu/acro1.1/index.htm in the group of Prof. James Pustejovsky in computer science department on a project called Medstract. Helped in developing a search engine for finding out long forms, synonyms etc. of acronyms used in biomedical abstracts. The programming was done in Python. Assistant Engineer Irrigation Dept, Govt. of Maharashtra - Pune, Maharashtra July 1996 to February 2000 Along with other engineering responsibilities, developed software for designing various components for an Underground Power House using C. Civil Engineer Kirloskar Consultants Ltd - Pune, Maharashtra August 1992 to June 1996 Designed various components of Rural Water Supply System. Education Master of Computer Science in Computer Science Brandeis University - Waltham, MA May 2004 Microsoft Certified Professional Brandeis University Continuing Education 2001 Bachelor of Science in Civil Engineering in Civil Engineering University of Pune - Pune, Maharashtra June 1992 Skills .NET, VISUAL STUDIO, API, C#, HTML Additional Information Computer Skills  7. Languages: C#, VB.NET, VB, XML, C, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, ASP.NET, Java, PL/SQL, Python, Perl, OpenGL  8. Databases: SQL Server 2014, ORACLE, MS Access 2003  9. Other: .Net framework 4.5, RESTful Web API, Third party controls (ComponentOne and Infragistics, Telerik controls), Corepoint hl7 Interface Engine, NUnit, Resharper, FxCop  10. Tools: Visual Studio 2015, Team Foundation Server, Sharepoint, VMWare, SVN, Rally and JIRA, Microsoft Visio, Visual Source Safe, Test Complete  11. Operating Systems: Windows 7, Windows Server 2003, Windows XP/2000/NT/98, UNIX, DOS  12. Skills: Object Oriented Design (OOD)  13. Methodologies: Agile, Scrum, Kanban    Work Status:  US Citizen. Interim US Security Clearance obtained through McKesson.