Software Project Manager <span class="hl">Software</span> Project Manager Beavercreek, OH I am a certified ScrumMaster with 10 years of experience working and leading in an Agile environment and 17 years of total development experience. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Project Manager LGS Innovations - Dayton, OH May 2018 to Present My current position is leading a 20-person software development team on a contract held by the prime, Centauri. We're building a data ingest and dissemination system on a hybrid cloud, distributed microservice architecture. Our technology stack includes Mesos, ELK, Kafka, and Amazon S3.     By changing the paradigm for building ingest pipelines (dataflows) to use services that are as generic and reusable as possible, in one year my team has managed to increase the total number of dataflows tenfold from the previous three years combined, while establishing and implementing enterprise architectural patterns to improve stability and reliability.    I coach the team in agile practices; lead weekly design and brainstorming sessions; facilitate interactions between the team, management, stakeholders, and customers; lead sprint planning, reviews, and retrospectives; and work with the team and technical stakeholders to bring the system as a whole in line with industry best practices and patterns. Senior Software Engineer LGS Innovations - Dayton, OH August 2017 to May 2018 Before my current role as development project manager, I was responsible for all UI/UX development on a different contract for the same prime. I designed and developed a frontend in Angular 2 for an open-source container scheduling framework and then designed, developed, and deployed a new service for managing teams and roles using PostgreSQL, Django, and Angular 2. Software Project Manager LGS Innovations - Raleigh, NC August 2015 to August 2017 I was the technical lead for all C# projects, wrote C#-specific technical proposals, advised on asset and personnel acquisition, and assisted with architectural design of enterprise-level software outside of the Microsoft domain.    I handled agile team lead/scrummaster responsibilities and was responsible for the entire software development life cycle for my product--a personnel management database built using MSSQL, C#, and MVC--from concept to delivery. Tech Lead CACI International Inc - Bagram May 2011 to August 2015 I advised on the writing of software-specific task orders, asset and personnel acquisition, and the specifics of software design and implementation.     My primary project was an enterprise-level asset availability tracking tool built in ASP.NET MVC3 and C#, with Entity Framework 4 tied to SQL Server 2008 and its UI provided by a combination of Twitter Bootstrap, jQuery UI, and custom javascript components. I led a small team in the development of the application from concept-to-delivery, established the application as a part of the company's core contract, and managed to build a standardized Agile software development protocol for the contract along the way.  Senior Software Engineer L-3 Communications / Integrated Systems - Fayetteville, NC August 2008 to May 2011 I worked as part of an Agile with Scrum team in the development of an enterprise-level data storage and search web application as well as several other applications we were collectively responsible for, all built on the Microsoft stack. I was trained to lead a team by an experienced Certified Scrummaster, including handling all stakeholder interactions for the team’s primary project. Senior Software Developer United States Air Force (Active Duty) - Robins AFB, GA September 2002 to August 2008 NCOIC of Squadron software development flight; built and administered Squadron web site and databases Education Bachelor's in Computer Science Western Governors University January 2019 to Present Bachelor's in Computer Science DeVry University - Tampa, FL 2010 to 2011 Associate in Computer Science Community College of the Air Force - Montgomery, AL September 2002 to August 2008 Skills Apache Mesos (2 years), .NET MVC (5 years), Apache Kafka (2 years), Elasticsearch (2 years), SQL (8 years), Angular (2 years), Javascript (10+ years), C# (10+ years), Scrum, Scrum Master, Jira, Agile Scrum, CSM Military Service Branch: USAF Service Country: United States Rank: E5 September 2002 to August 2008 Certifications/Licenses Scrum Master August 2010 to Present From Scrumalliance.org. I've actually taken the course twice; once in 2010 and then again in August 2018 with Project Brilliant in Cincinnati, OH Scrum Product Owner August 2018 to August 2020 From Scrumalliance.org, training given by Project Brilliant in Cincinnati, OH