Senior Software Developer Senior <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> HEDIS Technical Lead Bend, OR I am seeking opportunity to advance my career as a Quality Assurance Lead, Senior Software Developer, and Business Analyst. More specifically, I am looking for a position with a company dedicated to being the best in their market and ready to explore additional growth opportunities. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Software Developer PacificSource Health Plans - Bend, OR September 2010 to Present As a senior software developer for PacificSource Health Plans, I am responsible for the Business Intelligence related interfaces, reporting, and auditing of our claims, enrollment and billing, member and provider, marketing and product data. I have managed the integration and optimization of our HEDIS reporting software for the past 7 years. I work directly with our Quality Assurance department, HEDIS software vendor, chart abstraction vendor, and auditors to coordinate our annual submission. Experience in database administration, sql, Cotiviti HEDIS software, Cognos, SSIS, and other industry standard softwares and tools.  Additional responsibilities include ETL and process automation via SSIS, implementation of Medicare annual enrollment processing, and regulatory reporting across all lines of business.  Software Developer Capsule Tech, Inc. - Bend, OR October 2014 to November 2016 I worked as a consultant for Capsugel to create various reports using sql, SSIS, SalesForce, and other industry standard softwares and tools Credit Services Project Analyst Bank of the Cascades - Bend, OR June 2004 to September 2010 Directly responsible for all lending related Board of Directors reports as well as credit management production and financial analytics reporting.   Administration of the Bank’s consumer loan automation tool, Cypress Mark IV.  Oversee product setup, user administration rights, reporting and integration with the Bank's other platforms including LaserPro and the AS/400 system.  Managed the Credit Department's portion of a nine month conversion of the Bank’s core platform software from Jack Henry 20/20 to Jack Henry Silverlake.  Responsible for annual upgrades to all lending related systems. Education Some college Skills SQL (9 years), SSIS (9 years), SSRS (9 years), Cognos (10+ years), Microsoft Office (10+ years), As400 (10+ years), Cotiviti (7 years), Tableau (3 years) Certifications/Licenses A+ Certified December 2009 to Present