Solutions Architect Solutions Architect Solutions Architect - Cambia Work Experience Solutions Architect Cambia - Portland, OR May 2019 to Present my responsibilities include:  ? Leading investigation of new technologies to solve complex business and technical  problems.  ? Advising leadership on which technologies to use and how to tie them together.  ? Identifying integration points for on-going business and technical efforts within the department and facilitating cross-team communication.  ? Developing proof of concepts, designing APIs and coding solutions.  ? Helping establish software engineering best practices for the team, including source  control, code standards and reviews, change management pipelines and procedures. ID Experts - Portland, OR January 2016 to May 2019 Portland, OR  I work with .Net Core RESTful Microservices hosted in AWS ECS Linux Docker containers which allows leveraging existing team skills while bringing lower instance time cost of Linux and  streamlining deployment using containers. I develop responsive single page application using  Angular, Angular Material and RxJs. I implement infrastructure as code using Terraform to quickly produce consistent infrastructure and deployment process for an ever growing set of  services. I also build terraform generation tools for commonly used infrastructure resources to encourage consistency and greatly decrease development time. I maintain CI/CD Azure DevOps  pipelines for the greenfield project, having automated build pipelines with Jenkins, Jenkins  Pipelines and DSL for the legacy system. Having transitioned from Sr. Software Developer to a Principal Software Engineer role in 2018, my responsibilities now also include turning high level  product feature requirements into small easily executable stories, systems design, documenting  best practices and mentoring junior developers. Sr. Software Developer Incomm Digital Solutions - Portland, OR March 2014 to January 2016 worked as a part of an agile team doing TDD, using  technologies including, AngularJS, ASP.NET MVC, Web API, .NET Framework, SQL Server, and RavenDB.  ? Supported both operations and finance departments in maintenance and enhancements  of their business to business solutions, consumer facing offerings and integrations with  3rd party APIs.  ? Developed RESTful .NET APIs using the ASP.NET WebAPI framework  ? Refined and decomposed stories, lead design discussions, performed code reviews, and enabled junior engineers on the team.  ? Participated in peer education initiatives such as brown bag presentations and book  clubs on topics including, testing strategies, design patterns, and microservices. Sr. Software Developer, Developed SaaS Legal Software Zapproved, Inc - Hillsboro, OR June 2010 to March 2014 utilizing ASP.Net MVC, LINQ-to-SQL, HTML/JQuery, and SQL Server.  ? Worked on the full stack and participated in the full product life cycle.  ? Pragmatically used agile methodologies to keep our processes lean and stay responsive  to our client's needs.  ? Deployed and maintained software using Amazon Web Services.  ? Re-implemented product reports using DevExpress XtraReports technologies.  ? Designed and implemented report subscriptions.  ? Met with customers to analyze their data and processes, interpreted and migrated their  data, provided post-migration support to ensure a smooth transition to our product.  ? Developed custom data validation and migration tools.  ? Profiled application for performance issues and participated in the efforts to scale. Used  AJAX technologies to improve customer experience and site responsiveness; optimized  LINQ-to-SQL queries and re-designed database tables to help to improve performance.  ? Re-implemented email generation solution using T4 templates and later text templates. Software Developer GWI Software - Vancouver, WA September 2006 to June 2010 developed web centric help desk software through all the stages of the release cycle.  ? Assisted product manager in developing customer specifications.  ? Improved software performance, database integrity, and standardization.  ? Actively participated in the re-architecture and redesign of the application with a new  graphical user interface that is multi-browser compliant and adheres to new web  standards using C#, ASP.NET, HTML and AJAX.  ? Designed and implemented dynamic home page, allowing the users to customize their  content and create various types of performance dashboards.  ? Improved usability by reducing the complexity of the configuration user interface.  ? Re-designed End User Desktop navigation builder to improve flow, speed and usability.  ? Developed SSRS SQL reports that ship with the application. Worked with customers to develop custom SQL reports. Developed SSRS data models. Integrated SSRS Ad-hoc  reporting into the application. Jr. Developer / Technical Support Representative Fleet Management Solutions - Beaverton, OR September 2005 to September 2006 automated a company wide  technical support logging system and a satellite modem activation process using ASP and MS SQL Server.  ? Provided technical support to customers via phone and email. Assisted with GPS  Tracking Unit installations and software upgrades. Troubleshooted tracking equipment and managed returned merchandise repair.  ? Supported the sales department in training and resolving of technical issues. Updated  and created installation manuals and various training materials. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science Portland Community College - Portland, OR 2001 to 2005