Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer - ICON Technologies, Inc Charlotte, NC • 11+ years of work experience in Object Oriented Design, Modeling, Programming and Testing in Core Java, J2EE technologies.  • Experience in all phases of software development life cycle, including project development from scratch.  • Experienced in complete project lifecycle using SDLC techniques, UML, Use Cases and Functional Design documents.  • Expertise in Object Oriented Programming using Core Java and J2EE related technologies.  • Proficiency in developing secure web applications and server-side development using Spring, REST web services, AOP, ORM - Hibernate, JDBC, Struts, JSP, Servlets, Java Beans, JavaScript, XML, HTML, Java Beans, Oracle, SOAP Web services and various Design Patterns.  • Comprehensive knowledge of physical and logical data modeling and performance tuning.  • Hands on experience with databases including Oracle, DB2 and MySQL.  • Experience in environments requiring direct customer interaction during requirement gathering, design, development and support phases.  • Involved in all the testing phases like unit testing, Integration testing, performance testing (including application profiling) and User Acceptance testing.  • Strong analytical skills with ability to quickly understand client's business needs.  • Experience in using continuous integration tools like Jenkins  • Having knowledge on Amazon Web Services (EC2, S3).  • Have experience in memory leak detection and JVM GC tuning.  • Experience in working with WebLogic, Tomcat, Jboss.  • Experienced with Eclipse, Spring Tool Suite  • Self-Motivated and proven ability to work independently or in a team  • Excellent team Player, quick learner and self-starter with effective communication, motivation and organizational skills combined with attention to detail Work Experience Software Developer ICON Technologies, Inc - Charlotte, NC October 2017 to Present RULO is all about creating unique experience for mortgage refinance or purchase user. It uses real-time pricing technology, real-time processing technology and CRM systems for the user experience. It significantly increases not only the pay-outs but there are couple of more impacts as well, too. First, RULO gets offers for a wide range of borrowers because it allows user to sort of skip the filtering step inside of LendingTree and go directly to the pricing engines and that way it brings material increase in customer satisfaction from that. second, RULO helps in reducing phone calls and increasing capacity with lenders massively.  • Spring Boot Application from scratch with spring mongo connection.  • Included idsrv4 OAuth 2.0 token validation and enabled authentication in REST API's.  • Designed RULE engine to evaluate complex expressions with Expression Tree.  • Incorporated kafka in the application to transform Mongo objects into relational table columns.  • Used Spring IOC for injecting the beans and reduced the coupling between the classes.  • Implemented data access tier using Spring DAO.  • Asynchronous Computations with Java 8 CompletableFuture for reading xml file with multiple threads using SAX parser.  • Used Spring AOP module to handle transaction management services in the application.  • Identified and fixed memory leaks caused by bugs in the code.  • Involved in deploying and managing production setup with AWS services.  • Used AWS services including EC2, VPC for application deployment.  • Transforming requirements into stipulations.  Environment #1: Java 8, Spring REST Services, Spring MVC/Core/JPA, STS, SVN, AWS - EC2, S3, Angular JS, HTML, CSS, Javascript, Security Groups, VPC for production deployment, Caching, JMS, Linux - RedHat, JVM and Memory Management, design and architectural patterns, TDD, Concurrency, Agile, Maven, Bitbucket. Lead Developer Persistent Systems - Pune, Maharashtra March 2016 to September 2017 Project Title: CU Loans Platform (MyCB)    The project is about creating a loan Platform to which any aggregator or other web traffic originator can direct personal loan applications. Participation on the loan Platform will be open to multiple Credit Unions. With this platform, a single simple loan will be offered on common terms by all participating CUs. Credit/KYC check done using Call Credit Services, Round Robin CU Allocation with various filters, agreement sending & signing using Adobe EchoSign API, loan account creation, and disbursement using Mambu APIs.  Roles and responsibilities:  • Developed Spring Boot Application from scratch with Hibernate, MySQL. Created REST APIs for the backend application. Integration of Application with third party services of Mambu, Adobe EchoSign API and Call Credit Services.  • Involved in architectural design and API Management using API Gateway, Information Security, Token based Authentication, Role based Authorization.  • Implemented Design patterns - command, builder and J2EE design patterns.  • Deployed application with AWS Load Balancer, AWS Elastic IP's for white listed third-party API's, EC2 and VPC.  • Junit framework for unit testing.  • Identification and documentation of technical depth issues and prioritizing them for sprint.  • Transforming requirements into stipulations.  Environment: Core Java, Spring REST Services, Spring MVC/Core/JPA, AWS - EC2, S3, Angular JS, HTML, CSS, Javascript, Security Groups, VPC for production deployment, Caching, JMS, Linux - RedHat, JVM and Memory Management, design and architectural patterns, TDD, Concurrency, Agile, Maven.    Project # 1 GDPR, Trunomi  Work Location: Pune, India  Role: Lead Developer    Consent management data sharing platform connects financial institutions and their customers, Capturing customer consent to the use of their personal data. For the financial institution provides secure Messaging, document sharing and prove regulatory compliance General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR).  Roles and responsibilities:  • Developed two NodeJS back end Applications TPB, EBA as part of Trunomi platform with Cassandra, and created REST APIs for these applications, Unit Testing with Mocha.  • Implemented Information Security features using Hybrid Encryption, Digital Signing & Verification to enable secure communications between CFA (customer front end application), TPB (Trunomi platform backend application), and EBA (Enterprise back end applications) for multipart data.  Environment: Node.js, Cassandra, Git, Jira, Linux, REST Services. Individual Contributor/ Developer IBM India Pvt Ltd - Pune, Maharashtra September 2010 to March 2016 India  Project Title: Direct Debit Dispute    Barclays is a British multinational banking and financial services company headquartered in London. It is a universal bank with operations in retail, wholesale and investment banking, as well as wealth management, mortgage lending and credit cards. Direct Debit dispute is a module added to their existing customer support banking application to raise the Disputes in Direct Debit for Barclays Customers. The design of the application is MCA based architecture.  Roles and responsibilities:  • Implemented multithreaded solutions for complex computations.  • Implemented Design patterns - command, builder and J2EE design patterns.  • Involved in agile project - describing the stories, listing the tasks and design the application flow.  • Design and development of Spring MVC based Web application Direct Debit Dispute.  • Identified and fixed memory leaks caused by bugs in the code.  • Responsible for performing code reviews.  • Analysing risks in project schedule.  • Unit testing with Junit framework.  Environnent: Java 6, Web Services, Log4j, WebSphere Application Server 8.5, TDD, Concurrency, Agile, Maven.    Project # 3 BNP Paribas  Role: Senior Developer  Work Location: Pune, India  Project Title: BMRC (Credit Rick Reporting System)    BMRC is the Data warehouse that stores data about credit rating and credit risks of different legal entities (Organisations) across the globe. Core technology involved is Pl/SQL.  Roles and responsibilities:  • Converting high level design to low level design.  • Wrote stored procedures using Oracle PL/SQL  • Aggregation Engine Basel II family - Low level design creation and coding.  • Performance tuning of the stored procedures.  • Created Unit Test Matrix and Performed Unit Test.  Environment: Oracle 11g, TDD.    Project # 2 IBM Software Lab  Role: Java Developer  Work Location: Pune, India  Project Title: Jazz for Service Management Security Services    Security Services makes use of Single Sign On through LTPA tokens that works across both WebSphere and non-WebSphere applications.  Registry Services is a shared data repository, providing an index into the applications installed and the resources they manage. It is intended to support loosely coupled integration through Open Services for Lifecycle Collaboration (OSLC) and exposes their functionality as OSLC Service Providers.  Roles and responsibilities:  • Incorporated Cobertura for running unit test cases during build.  • Developed SSODebug tool to find problems and failures encountered during Single Sign On.  • Responsible for Sign out Module of Single Sign on Prototype developed on OAuth 2.0 and WebSphere Application Server's TAI based solution.  • Implemented Command design pattern for writing CLI for the backend application  • Wrote DDT cases for Unit testing.  • Setup for deploying the product on Solaris/Redhat/AIX platforms.  • Identified deadlock issues in the code and fixed the same with adhering to locking sequence.  Environment: Java 6, Web services, WebSphere Application Server, Linux - AIX, TDD, Agile.    Project # 1 UPS (United Parcel Service)  Java Developer  Work Location: Pune, India  Project Title: Open Account  Marketing Rate Discount (MRD): This application allows users to apply rate change and promo discount to their existing account or to open a new account with promo discount.  Web Seller's account: This module allows web seller to open an online account without involving third party agent.  Roles and responsibilities:  • Designing and developing the new MRD module and integrating the same with the existing application.  • Designed and developed the Web Seller's Account module and integrated the same with the existing application.  • Requirement Gathering from client and impact analysis  • Project planning with person day's estimations.  • Prepare Design Documents.  • Design & Develop JSP Pages.  • Writing Action & Business Logic classes, Web services, Oracle, EJB. Java Developer Patni Computer Systems Ltd - Mumbai, Maharashtra July 2007 to September 2010 India.  Project Title: Odin    This project is related to Development of Odin Application.  It is used to configure Celerra (NAS Device) for various NAS services like iSCSI, CIFS and NFS. UI code involved Multithreading  Roles and responsibilities:  • Requirement Analysis, Estimation, Design, Coding.  • Discuss issues (ARs) with client.  • Resolving OutOfMemoryError for UI getting blocked.  • Writing Struts Action & Business Logic classes for Celerra features (like iSCSI, NFS, CIFS and provisioning etc.).  Environment: Java 5, Struts1.3, Web services.    Project # 2 - Hitachi  Role: Java Developer  Work Location: Mumbai, India.  Project Title: Collaboration Portals  Groupmax provides a collaboration portal built around cross-functionality, security, ubiquity and globalization, facilitating rich collaboration and rapid knowledge acquisition beyond the individual and organizational framework. It helps create a virtual workplace for collaboration, enabling the organization of communities that bring together a variety of knowledge to create new insights and solve problems. It also has enhanced security functionality built with compliance in mind, and applies electronic forums and mobile devices to promote real-time communication. Because knowledge sharing beyond the barriers of organizations, time and place is the key to bringing further speed and value to businesses.  Roles and responsibilities:  • Requirement Gathering from client and impact analysis  • Interacting with the client to clarify any queries regarding the functionality  • Risk analysis for the modules in terms of time lines and expected dependencies of other modules.  • Looking after multithreaded solutions for given scenarios.  • Coding, Code Review  Environment: Core Java, Struts, Web services, Spring, Hibernate, Oracle, EJB    Project # 1 GE Aviation, US (Ohio)  Role: Java Developer  Work Location: Bangalore, India.  Project Title: Customer Web Center (CWC)  The goal of this project is to rebuild the application Initial Provisioning, using JSF Framework and portlet so that it can be integrated into a portal which is based on Jboss portal framework. The Initial Provisioning application allows the customers to calculate the spare parts configuration based on the needs and allow them to place order for the parts.  Roles and responsibilities:  • Requirement Gathering from client and impact analysis  • Interacting with the client to clarify any queries regarding the functionality  • Coding, Code Review.  • Developed the DAO classes to interact with the stored procedures in the back end.  • Developed the Package and procedures for interaction with the database.  • Test case creation and Unit testing for various modules.  Environment: Java, Struts, Web services, Spring, Hibernate, Oracle, EJB, Java1.5, Jboss 3.2.2, Struts, Eclipse3.3, PL/SQL Developer Education Post Graduate Diploma in Information Technology in Information Technology IIT Kharagpur May 2006 to May 2007 Skills Eclipse, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jaxb, Jms, Jsp, Servlets, Struts, Application server, Git, Groovy, Node.js, Jenkins, Svn, Xml, Mvc, Rest services, Soap