Sr. Java Developer Sr. Java <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Developer - BitPay San Francisco, CA • 10+ years of experience, strong back end development with front end designs. Technical strengths include Java, J2EE- Servlets, JSP, JDBC, JNDI, Java Beans, EJBs (Session beans, Entity Beans and JMS), XML, DTD, XSD, JAXP, JAXB, Web Services, Struts, Spring and Hibernate.  • Good communication and Interpersonal Skills.  • Solid experience in design, development of web based applications using HTML5, DHTML, CSS3, JavaScript, Angular-JS, AJAX, JSP, Java Script libraries like JQuery & DOJO and Tag Libraries.  • Strong in design and development of SOAP & Restful Web Services using WSDL, SOAP, JAX-WS, JAX-RPC, CXF, AXIS, JAX-RS, JERSEY, JSON, CXF, and WS-Security.  • Hands on experience with persistence layer using SQL, Hibernate, JPA, JDBC, PL/SQL-Storedprocedures, functions, triggers, Cursors etc.  • Expertise in using JMS for Asynchronous messaging.  • Proficient in development of enterprise business solutions using Apache Tomcat, WebLogic, WebSphere and JBOSS application servers.  • Extensive development experience in object oriented analysis, design and programming (OOA/OOD/OOP) throughout complete SDLC in various models like Waterfall and Agile.  • Excellent programming skills in JAVA, C, C++, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, SQL, PL/SQL and XML Technologies.  • IT Strategy Risk Management Cloud Computing / PaaS / SaaS / IaaS Infrastructure Architecture Disaster Recovery  • Expertise in using J2EE design patterns including Front Controller, Data Access Object, Session Façade, Business Delegate, Service Locator, MVC, Data Transfer Object and GOF patterns - Factory, Abstract Factory, Singleton, Adapter, Observer, Composite etc.  • Excellent hands on experience with Servlets, JDBC, EJB, Session beans, entity beans, JMS, XML, XSLT, DTD, XSD and DOM/SAX.  • Good expertise using various IDE tools like RAD, Eclipse & Net Beans etc.  • Expertise in Unit testing using JUnit & Mockito, Integration testing, & System testing.  • Good knowledge on ORM, Persistence concepts and DAO pattern and its related design patterns.  • Expertise in developing web applications using Servlets, JSP, Struts, JSF, ICEFaces, Spring Webflow and AJAX.  • Experience in developing business components using EJB such as Session, Entity and Message Driven Beans and presentation layer using JSTL, Custom tag libraries.  • Expertise in Object Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD) using Rational Unified Process (RUP) and Unified Modeling Language (UML) using Rational Rose.  • Good Experience in implementing several object oriented design patterns such as MVC, Front Controller, Business Delegate, Session Facade, Service Locator, DAO, DTO, Singleton, Object Factory and Composite View.  • Experience in implementing XML technologies and parsers like SAX, JAXB, XML, Schema, and DOM.  • Solid experience in using Java Design Patterns and Unified Modeling Language (UML) in designing JEE applications.  • Worked with version controlling tools, which includes Git Hub, SVN, CVS, Harvest & Clear case.  • Strong experience in database design using SQL, PL/SQL-Stored Procedures, Functions, Triggers, Sequences, Packages and Views.  • Hands on experience in creating build scripts using ANT and Maven.  • Strong experience in application development using various frameworks such as Jakarta Struts Framework, Java Server Faces, Spring Framework, Spring MVC, Hibernate ORM, jQuery. Work Experience Sr. Java Developer BitPay - San Francisco, CA March 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Developed and Implemented Web Services and used Spring Framework.  ? Developed application service components and configured beans using Spring IoC, creation of Hibernate mapping files and generation of database schema.  ? Defined and constructed layers, server-side objects and client-side interfaces based on J2EE design patterns, Developed and implemented Swing, spring and J2EE based MVC (Model-View-Controller) framework for the application.  ? Designed & implemented client/server application to plan package forwarding & route scheduling. Used JDBC for database connectivity.  ? Designed Struts Components like Formbeans, Action Classes and JavaBeans.  ? Developed a bulletin board module for supplier and vendor information portal. Application included forms to upload notification documents to the Supplier bulletin and maintenance of documents, complete with CRUD capabilities and email notifications  ? Worked on Java 8 features like Lambda Expressions, Java Stream API and Concurrent Accumulators.  ? Used Java 8 diamond operators, Java stream Api, Collection Api and Lambda expressions etc.  ? Used Java 8, Lambda expressions (for code optimization and improved performance).  ? Created Spring configurations for Data Access, REST, Messaging, JSBC, MVC  ? Developed cutting edge applications using blockchain technology.  ? Worked with Development, testing and deployment of blockchain based applications.  ? Build a crowdfunding equity application on the Ethereum blockchain.  ? Built a cross border payment system on blockchain platform (Ethereum) which can be used to Send and Receive payments that are sent by the participating banks in the network.  ? Architect and deployed global Ethereum-derived blockchain and cryptocurrency assets in preparation for ICO.  ? Develop and Deployed scalable blockchain networks and blockchain apps.  ? Built REST MicroServices using JAVA to compile, deploy and execute the Smart Contracts on Ethereum one of the blockchain platform.  ? Worked on Ethereum, HyperLedger, Bitcoin or other Blockchain technologies and various consensus protocols.  ? Developed a library for interacting with dozens of cryptocurrency wallets (Bitcoin, Litecoin, Vertcoin, etc) through JSON-RPC calls and cryptocurrency exchange market APIs including Cryptsy, MintPal, and Crypto Rush.  ? Analyzed and researched about Bitcoin, and developed Bitcoin related software, including a bitcoin transaction relay system, a bitcoin transaction crawler, etc.  ? Involved in providing the new trend and innovative solution (Blockchain) for Global Financial Market, consider as a Thought Leader for Banking.  ? Competent with IDEs such as IBM'S Rational Application Developer, SpringSource Tool Suite(STS), Eclipse, NetBeans  ? Experience in designing and developing Enterprise Applications for J2EE platform using Core Java, Servlets, JSP, JSTL, JDBC, JMS.  ? Used Java 8 features such as Lambda expressions, Functional Interfaces, Streams to avoid boilerplate code, keep code simple and extensively.  ? Excellent programming skills in languages/technologies Java, Servlets, JSP, XSL, XML, JMS, XML Schema and Web Services  ? Created Maven project and updated system dependencies and maven dependences in pom.xml.  ? Data was bound to the components with MVVM using Kendo and Vue.JS, and was retrieved, created, updated, & deleted using REST.  ? Built web application using Vue.js and Firebase.  ? Develop custom drag and drop tree view, web application to transfer and arrange HL7 data using Angular, html and Vue.js.  ? Implemented WSDL specification in combination with SOAP and XML Schema to provide Web Services.  ? Developed framework using Java, BIRT Runtime, iText, MySQL and web server technologies.  ? Lead many departments agile meetings, used Jira Agile for management of team projects  ? Extensively used the BAL constructs to handle collections in ILOG. Worked with large data sets in ILOG.  ? Involved in developing and modifying the credit card, consumer loan business rules in ILog Jrules  ? Integrate Web 2.0 sites into client's website.  ? Implemented application level persistence using Hibernate and Spring.  ? Experience in developing user interface using HTML, JavaScript Libraries (jQuery), JSON, AJAX and CSS.  ? Developed JavaScript based components using ExtJS framework like GRID, Tree Panel with client reports customized according to user requirements.  ? Used Node.js to run Grunt tasks and build properly the project (compile, minify, concat etc.)  ? Responsible for the implementation of Web Design based on CSS3, HTML5, and Bootstrap.js Front-End Framework.  ? Built main application in Python, Django leveraging technologies such as Tastypie,  Backbone.js, and Celery  ? Extensively used Oracle programming using SQL and PL/SQL  ? Worked in debugging and Tuning the PL/SQL code, explain plan, tuning queries and optimization for the Oracle database.  ? Experience in Software Configuration Management, Build, Release Management using CVS, VSS, TFS, Subversion (SVN), ClearCase, RTC, ANT, Maven, CA Harvest, JIRA, Perforce and Clear Quest on Unix, Windows environment. Worked with different version management tools like CVS, Subversion, TFS and ClearCase  ? Designed and built flexible, innovative web-based data visualizations, working with D3.js.  ? Built data visualizations to monitor file server load, web server speeds, data processing and more using d3, backbone, jquery and mysql.  ? Created responsive graphs using D3.js and CSS.  ? Designed and developed Auto-Tester tool using Java 8.  ? Used core java technologies such as Collections, Multi-Threading, Exception Handling.  ? Created test plans and JUnit test cases and test suite for testing the application.  ? Experience working on Jquery , agile agile, WebSphere Portal User management APIs  ? Designed Use Case Diagrams, Class Diagrams and Sequence Diagrams and Object Diagrams to model the detail design of the application using UML.  ? Involved in the development of business module applications using J2EE technologies like Servlets, JSP and JDBC.  ? Profound experience in Design, Development and Implementation of web 2.0 applications using J2EE Technologies and IBM SOA tools and technologies.    Environment - Java, J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, Strust, Angular.js, AJAX, JavaScript, Node.js, Bootstrap.js, Backbone.js, Oracle, CRUD, PL/SQL, JDBC, Coherence, Mongo DB, Apache CFX, REST, Eclipse, Weblogic, Subversion SVN, Junit, Agile, UML, JSP, javaserver pages standard tag Library(JSTL), Servlet, Maven, ITEXT, Jasper report, Web 2.0 SOA, Sr. Java Developer Coinbase - San Francisco, CA October 2014 to February 2016 Responsibilities:  ? Designed and developed Message Flows and Message Sets and other service component to expose Mainframe applications to enterprise J2EE applications.  ? Used JPA with Entity Beans for interacting with Persistence Layer for CRUD operations.  ? Developed PL/SQL Stored Procedures, Functions and Packages and Triggers to implement business rules into the application.  ? Designed templates, representing format, positioning, text style and size of report data, using HTML and CSS.  ? Lead Shock & Strut Programs, maintain program timing, achieve program goals & schedule  ? Worked extensively on J2EE for developing Web and Distributed Applications by using JSP, JSF, Servlets, Struts, Hibernate, Spring Framework and Web Services, EJB, JDBC, JNDI  ? Developed robust, responsive Ajax driven UIs with AJAX, CSS, DHTML, Angular.Js, React JS, JavaScript and JQuery.  ? Developed web channel for Retail industry using BlockChain technology using Node.js.  ? Build automation tool to consolidate whole BlockChain scripts for production demployment.  ? Implementing the proposed DAO and dapps on the Ethereum blockchain. The rules for the DAO were being programmed using Solidity on the Ethereum blockchain.  ? Worked on developing Proof of Concepts (POCs) for different uses of Blockchain technology in varied business cases.  ? Deployed smart contracts into remix using web3 provider as environment and used testrpc module to test the blockchain. Simultaneously used Mist browser to observe the blocks.  ? Develop new prototypes, pilots, production applications using the latest Blockchain technologies.  ? Build a personal C2C trading platform based on bitcoin crypto currency as payment.  ? Built a library to facilitate date bound accounting integration with bitcoin.  ? Built a RESTful API to save and retrieve geolocations using a remote server in Java using Spring, MongoDB, Apache CXF, and JAX-RS.  ? Well-versed in object-oriented programming (OOP) Concepts with JavaScript, knowledge of DOM and proficient in increasing efficiency of web pages.  ? Built main application in Python, Django leveraging technologies such as Tastypie,  Backbone.js, and Celery  ? Involved in configuring JNDI properties, data sources for Oracle, UDB, DB2 data bases in websphere  ? Used JDBC and developed DAO classes to connect the database Postgre sql.  ? Used Oracle coherence to find POJO beans from the deployed WAR file  ? Worked on Java Multithreading, Collections & Coherence Framework  ? Technology leadership for the direction of the Cloud based application using Node.JS, PDFJS, Sencha, MongoDB and MS SQL Server integrating to a proprietary framework.  ? Developed Web services using Apache CXF and exposed WSDL for Flex client to consume.  ? Automated API test cases by using REST, SOAP, OAuth, Splunk web  ? Proficient use of developing applications using Eclipse, My Eclipse, RAD, NetBeans and ANT.  ? Development work is also done to the legacy system using WSAD IDE. The modified application is deployed on websphere using ANT and javascripts for use by interface project.  ? Extensively used IBM WebSphere Integration Developer(WID) to implement SOA  ? Administered bot Git and Subversion repositories for an enterprise code off.  ? Used Cassandra and oracle 11g as DB's and used GitHub as versioning tool.  ? Wrote test cases using JUnit testing framework and configured applications on Weblogic Server.  ? Utilized Agile Methodology Scrum (SDLC) to managed projects and team.  ? Involved in detail design developing use cases, use case diagrams, class diagrams, sequence diagrams and high level activity diagrams using UML from the requirements.  ? Developed the user interface using JSP and Java Script to view all online trading transactions  ? Uses the DAO pattern for data access layer and JMS API for the messaging requirement.  ? Deployed the developed web components on Apache Tomcat Web-Server.  ? Install, maintain, and configure Unix/ Linux environments on all servers including networking, clustering, storage, and applications  ? Develop complex web applications in PHP, AJAX with Informix as the database to model the business logic of the company which is Supply Chain Management.    Environmen -Spring, Hibernate, Struts, JSF, Angular.js, Javascript, CSS, AJAX, html, Node.js, Bootstrap.js, Backbone.js, DB2, CRUD, JDBC, coherence, MongoDB, APACHE CFX, soap, Web Service, Eclipse, Git, GitHub, Junit, Scrum, UML, JSP, SERVLET, MAVEN, Xml, ITEXT, JIRA, Jasper Report, ILOG, Jrules, Web2.0, SOA, JMS, Apache Tomcat, Linux, PHP. Java Developer Bitstamp, Ney York, NY October 2013 to September 2014 Responsibilities:  • Setup ClearCase server to support CCRC (ClearCase Remote Clients). Evaluated existing software development environment, drafted recommendations for improvements. Worked with GHX and IBM to resolve licensing issues involved with ClearCase software change management solution package. Environment was mixed Windows and Linux, projects written in C++ and Java.  • Experience in development of web applications using Spring Framework, Java, J2EE, JSP, Servlets, Struts2, Spring boot and MVC Architecture.  • Designed and deployed server side EJB (Session Beans and Entity Beans) components on Eclipse IDE.  ? Data Access Programming using iBatis ORM with DB2 database Environment: Java, J2EE, WebSphere, log4j, UML, WebSphere MQ, spring, iBatis, DB2  ? Define Shock & Strut mastering per Ford Specifications, address qualification approvals.  ? Experience in developing front end User Interfaces with HTML, Java Script, JQuery, JSP, CSS, JSF, Struts, JSTL, applet and swing components.  ? Expertise in Angular JS, jQuery, WebSphere and Dojo for the client side functionalities and Object oriented JavaScript functionalities.  ? Integrate the ExtJs/Sencha framework with Oracle BPM.  ? Developed mobile applications using JQuery Mobile, PhoneGap, and Sencha for Virtual Infotech Inc  ? Implemented MHA (Master High Availability) for MySQL, added custom Perl code snippet for graceful online/manual (panned) failover  ? Helped breed live food items for the spray toad population, such as crickets, fruit flies, isopods, and springtails  ? Responsible for installation, configuration and complete administration of different versions of SQLServer  ? Implemented application performance tuning to improve degradation and query performance optimization using DB2's Explain, Visual Explain and advises tools.  ? Consumed external services by generating client from the external service wsdl (WSDL Java) and published services by generating wsdl from java with Apache CXF.  ? Efficiently used IDE's like Eclipse, NetBeans, and XCode for development of applications  ? Worked on servers including WebSphere application server, Weblogic Application server, JBoss application server and Apache Tomcat webserver.  ? Create and maintain Amazon EC2 instance that supports the companies Redmine project management site and Mercurial CM.  ? Java Based Quality Center plugin which can be used in any tools such as Selenium, RFT etc.  ? Expertise in employing Water Fall Model and best practices for software development  ? Participated in converting the business requirements to software specifications using Rational UML  ? Used Struts Framework along with JSP, HTML to construct the dynamic web pages for the application  ? Used Ant for developing build scripts and deploying the application onto WebLogic.  ? Used WebServicesfor creating rate summary and used WSDL and SOAPmessages for getting insurance plans from different module and used XML parsersfor data retrieval.  ? Working Closely with EMC Documentum to implement Engineering Design Storage Repository and Project Document Management.  ? Used AJAX, Java script and GWT to create interactive user interface.  ? Customized and branded Jira (Server and Cloud) to companies desires  ? Designing and developing 'Online' client windows API's using JDK1.2 and Swing classes.  ? Installation, configuration and Administration of Cognos environment.  ? Involved in developing and modifying the credit card, consumer loan business rules in ILog Jrules  ? Extensive experience in working with Oracle Application Development Framework (ADF) for developing Oracle Custom Web Applications.  ? Deployed, the application using Apache Tomcat Application server as well as Web Sphere Application Server.  ? Configured WordPress publishing software for non-profit firm. Created weblog layout in HTML, CSS and PHP based on an original design according to client's branding needs.  ? Designed and built it based on previous Classic ASP version. Upgraded its original database from Access to SQL.    Environment -Spring, Ibatis, Strust, JSF, EJB, DOJO, Secha ExtJS, Jquery, MYSQL, UML, JSP, SERVLET, ANT, Xml, GWT (Google Web Toolkit), JIRA, SWING, IBM MQ Series, Apache Tomcat, Linux, Unix, C, C++, COBOL, PL/I, JCL, SQL, SAS VB, ASP. Java Software Developer Fidelity Federal Bank - Bethesda, MD March 2012 to September 2013 Responsibilities:  ? Developed the web tier components using JSP, Struts, JavaScript and Ajax.  ? Developed and modified the Action classes and custom business classes.  ? Developed Servlets, JSP, and Java classes for implementing business logic  ? My responsibilities included: Design, Develop, Maintain software, Code  ? Described the project building and dependency with Maven.  ? Quickly learned iText and implemented to solve Hungarian Special Character Issue.  ? Expertise in developing applications using WebServices (SOAP, RESTFUL), Core Java, JDBC, Servlets, JSP, HTML, Java Scripts and develop Jasper Reports.  ? Analyzed Business Functionality and use cases and interacted with Users.  ? Responsible for designing, coding and developing the application.  ? The total application was developed in J2EE using MVC architecture.  ? Used CVS integrated with Web Sphere for version control.  ? Created Unit test cases.  ? Extensively participated in application integration testing.  ? Configured the struts and tiles config files to create and modify the navigation.  ? Used web service calls for exchanging data with the other applications.  ? Developed and modified the stored procedures, the DAO and VO classes.  ? Modified the Business Delegate and connector classes.  ? Implemented views using Struts tags, JSTL and Expression Language.  ? Analyzed and resolved the crucial production defects.  ? Used Rational Clear Quest for Defect resolution.    Environment: AJAX, HTML, JavaScript, JSP, Struts , Servlets, Java, XML, Web services, Hibernate, JDBC, SQL Server 2005, JUnit, CVS, Rational Clear Quest, Log, Web Sphere, WSAD, Windows XP. Software Developer Mercy Health System - Dallas, TX March 2010 to February 2012 Responsibilities:  ? Developed UI using JSP, Java Script, CSS.  ? Developed the application using Struts framework.  ? Created tile definitions, struts-config files, and validation files for the application using Struts framework.  ? Implemented Action Classes and Action Forms using Struts framework.  ? Used JDBC to connect to the database.  ? Identified the Business Requirements of the project.  ? Involved in preparing the Detailed Design document for the project.  ? Design Database tables.  ? Wrote SQL queries and stored procedures.  ? Involved in Unit testing, System Testing and writing test cases.  ? Apache Tomcat server administration.    Environment: JSP Struts, JDBC, J2EE, Apache Tomcat, HTML, JavaScript, MySql. Software Developer ABC Healthcare Plans, Inc August 2007 to February 2010 Responsibilities  ? Implemented "Model View Controller (MVC)" architecture for an efficient implementation of the view level customizations and interface with the application logic.  ? Developed JSP's, Servlets, JavaScript, XML which formed the UI component.  ? Created Servlets and Java Server Pages, which route submittals to the appropriate Enterprise Java Bean (EJB) components and render retrieved information.  ? Involved in deployment components on Weblogic application server.  ? Performed Unit Testing of all Modules.  ? Developed EJB Components, both Entity and Session beans, modeling the business logic.  ? JDBC is used for data interaction with Oracle database.  ? Written stored procedures in Oracle to validate data and ensure System integrity for various tests based on different specifications.  ? Used the Use cases, Interaction diagrams and Class diagrams in development of the application.    Environment: J2EE, JSP, EJB, XML, Weblogic Application Server, ANT, Perl Scripting, Oracle , Win NT, Eclipse. Education Certification in Certification and Education Background Golden Gate University Skills J2EE (10+ years), JAVA (10+ years), JAVASCRIPT (10+ years), JSP (10+ years), JDBC (9 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SUMMARY:    J2EE Technologies Servlets, JDBC, JNDI, JSP, EJB, JMS, XML, XPath, XSLT, XSD, DTD, WebServices, SOAP, WSDL  Languages C, Java, J2EE  Web Technologies JavaScript, DHTML, CSS, AJAX  Frameworks Struts, Spring, Hibernate  Application Servers Web Logic, Web Sphere  Web Servers Apache, Jakarta TOMCAT  IDE/GUI Tools Eclipse, WSAD, RAD  Modeling Tools UML, Rational Rose    Operating Systems Windows 2000/98/95/NT, UNIX  Databases Oracle , MySql  Tools CVS, Clear Case, RationalClearQuest