IT Specialist - Applications Software Developer IT Specialist - Applications <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> JBoss Web Admin - US Dept. of Agriculture Hughesville, MD As the .NET Specialist of the team, I develop solutions that improve business efficiency and productivity; working closely with the client, Subject Matter Experts (SMEs), and all stakeholders to analyze existing business models and flows; translating client requirements into technical design and business solutions. Work Experience IT Specialist - Applications Software Developer US Dept. of Agriculture - Washington, DC March 2009 to Present As the .NET Specialist of the team, I develop solutions that improve business efficiency and productivity; working closely with the client, Subject Matter Experts (SMEs), and all stakeholders to analyze existing business models and flows; translating client requirements into technical design and business solutions.  FY 2009- 2018 – Major Accomplishments    Project: GovDelivery API -Market News ListServ Web App  Developed web app that implements POST of statistical reports to subscribers via Web services to create subscriptions in the GovDelivery Communication Cloud and provides Archive Search Engine capabilities    Project: MNReports Web App Software Development  Developed and deployed web app for listing directory of daily Statistical reports posted to the web for public access and maintain server security  MS Visual Studio 2008, ASP.NET, AJAX Control Toolkit, VB .NET, IIS 6.0/7.0  Developed a .NET web app that list Market News Reports submitted from field reporters to ensure report validation occurs before submission to our distribution app server.    Project: TIBCO Spotfire Deployment  Configure Web Player Integrated Authentication  Configuration Manager, ensure configuration items and baselines. Maintain and communicate changes with calendars, release maps for pending releases    Project: BMC Remedy Configuration Management  Migrate software from v6 to v7   Used ITIL principles to configure notifications for the IT Service Desk  Configure Apache 7.0 Web Server  Migrate software from v8 to v8.1.02    Project: MNCS Web App Software Development  SQL, CSS3, JavaScript/jQuery, Telerik UI AJAX/ASP .NET    Project: Enterprise Application Domain Migration  Enhanced report distribution infrastructure by replacing Java JRE enterprise application with .NET Windows service to preserve cross domain file movement functionality    Applications Support and Maintenance  Complete Continuation of Operations Plan (COOP) for Market News Portal and Market News Communication Systems: includes defining Backup Procedures, Recovery Time Objective (RTO), Recovery Point Objective (RPO), return to normal operations.  Meet and address Senior Market News branch directors, and Cyber Security team members to discuss new technology and impacts on Market News.  Lead Software Developer for Market News Service Branch working with Cyber Security, CIO of ITS, and other senior staff to mitigate vulnerabilities in IIS when discovered by DHS/ASOC. Mitigated Binding Operational Directive (BOD)-1801 vulnerabilities: SSL name mismatch, defining the http header max-age setting to set packet expiration, disabled Triple DES168, SSL 2.0 and SSL 3.0 ciphers using MS PowerShell scripts. Upgrade Rebex .NET SFTP .dll software package for FIPS 140 Security Compliancy     Project: Sisense BI Tool Web Portal Upgrade    Implement OLAP (Online Analytical Processing) based business intelligence (BI) solutions so complex data can be provided from pre-calculated and pre-aggregated columnar databases (Sisense Elasticube)  Technology: RedHat JBoss Enterprise Application Platform 6.2, Java JDK 1.7-1.8, Apache Maven 3.1 - 3.5, Spring MVC Hibernate, Java Server Pages (JSP), JavaScript, JQuery Oracle 10g/11g, Java, BI Publisher, Google Analytics, Hibernate, Maven  Structure dashboards to display complex datasets for multidimensional analysis and visualization using pivot tables, views, graphs, and filter widgets using CASE, WHEN, LIKE, COUNT, UNION, JOIN, SELECT, etc. and math operations for aggregation  EHCache troubleshooting and tuning, Hibernate log review, heap dump, schedule data load job management.    Market News Portal Administrator  Conduct software testing of Java based portals on development and test environments prior to deployment.  Manage access to the portal's administrative functions using JBoss EAP 6.2 user account and role features.  Code Java Server Pages in accordance with request from customers, who are Subject Matter Experts, senior Market, using JavaScript and JQuery to change menu links, style content, update PDF user guides, and post announcements to users.    Responsibilities & Experience  • From 9/29/2017 to present, I gained specialized experience at the GS-13 level at the US Dept. of Agriculture after the senior JBoss Web Admin (GS-13) left the agency and I assumed all duties as the senior Java developer and web portal admin.  • From 7/17/2011 to Present, I accumulated specialized experience at the GS-12 level after being promoted at the US Department of Agriculture as a IT Software Developer.  • 20 years of experience in Software Development in Microsoft .Net Applications and SQL Server 2005/2009/2012/2016.  • Apply knowledge of Client/Server and Web based applications using VB, ASP, ASP.NET (3.5/4.0/4.5/4.7), ADO.ENT, C#, VB.NET, Web Services, ArcGIS Mapping and Analytical Platform SDK for .NET (mobile), and Telerik Rad Controls.  • Excellent analytical skills with Proficiency in debugging and Problem Solving.  • Extensive experience with source control systems such as Visual Source Safe and Team Foundation Server.  • Good working knowledge of HTML, DHTML, CSS, XML, AJAX, JavaScript, jQuery, Java, Spring MVC Hibernate, C#.  • Use object-oriented design and UI/UX development skills using Visual Studio, Maven, Eclipse.  • Full Stack Development (FSD): Design and implement purposeful and concise web applications using client-side scripting; jQuery and JavaScript.  • Full Stack Development (FSD): Develop data driven web applications using Node.js, Express, AngularJS, MySQL, MangoDB, and Capstone.  • Good working knowledge of SQL Server Management Studio, JDeveloper, Eclipse, Oracle, PL/SQL Developer, and MS Access.  • Implement OLAP (Online Analytical Processing) based business intelligence (BI) solutions so complex data can be provided from pre-calculated and pre-aggregated columnar databases (Sisense Elasticube)  • Experience in Software Engineering Concepts including Designing, Programming, Implementation and Testing.  • Experience conducting software testing of Java based portals, VB .NET web applications   • Write client-side validation scripts and Test Cases to conduct Unit Test and Integrated Testing with software such as LoadImpact, Selenium IDE, Rational AppScan, and JMeter; synchronize UAT with SME’s to Quality Test at end of Sprints  • Work with QA, SME’s, Change Manager (Change Advisory Board), Network, and Server Infrastructure teams during deployments to manage configuration settings within IIS and enterprise security.   • Strong Skills in developing 3-Tier and N-Tier Architecture systems deployed on windows platform.  • Strong analytical and problem-solving skills coupled with excellent written, verbal and interpersonal communication skills.  • Manage the full lifecycle of IT projects as a versatile team player or as an independent contributor   • Ability to conceptualize, document, and communicate project ideas and plans.  • A team player, enthusiastic and quick to learn new bodies of knowledge and technology. Willing to take individual responsibilities and manages time effectively. Regularly consulted for senior developer knowledge and advice.  • Manage Git source repository of code, install Java plugins to JBoss 6.2 EAP portal via Maven, tune memory via EHCACHE  • Prepared analysis, design documents, estimation, for different component and functional modules required by the system.  • Coded extensively in VB.NET targeting Business requirements.  • Apply Principles of User Interface Design (UI/UX) for simplicity, structure, visibility, feedback, tolerance, and reuse.  • Implement a full range of Telerik Rad Controls in several web applications: SearchBox, DataGrid, Calendar, AjaxManger, etc.   • Utilize .NET Framework for network interaction; implement POST/webrequest for Web services; build RESTful API applications  • Implement software, network, and host hardening for holistic web application security; firewall, shares, ports, auditing  • BAPI and Function module integration: GovDelivery API, Google Analytics, and Uploadifive.  • Develop SQL Stored Procedures for performing optimization and other database operations such as complex SQL queries, views, and triggers etc. using CASE, WHEN, LIKE, COUNT, UNION, JOIN, SELECT, etc. and math operations for aggregation  • Certified Agile ScrumMaster, experienced working with JIRA, ServiceNow, Remedy, and Team Foundation Server   • Created different users, roles, document libraries, form libraries, team sites for projects, issue list on SharePoint Server   • Active Application Developer Subcommittee member; Lead a team of IT developers and QA personnel tasked with evaluating application testing and simulation tools  • Created C# .NET Windows service to generate sitemap containing metadata for the ISYS/Lexmark/Kofax search infrastructure conversion to infrastructure based on XML sitemaps utilizing Search.gov  • Conduct ETL (Extract, Transform, Load) using PL/SQL to move Oracle 11g historical data to Windows MS SQL Server 2012 tables using data migration snapshots on Market News data warehouse in preparation for transition to new Market News Portal Education Bachelor's in Information Technology - Computer Studies University of Maryland-University College - Adelphi, MD September 2004 to May 2006 Bachelor of Science in Computer Studies University of Maryland University College May 2006 Skills .NET (10+ years), Visual Basic (10+ years), SQL (10+ years), Agile (6 years), Scrum (6 years), Databases (10+ years), Data Management (10+ years), Windows Server 2008 (10+ years), Windows Server (10+ years), Javascript (8 years), JQuery (8 years), HTML (10+ years), Desktop Support (10+ years), JBoss (6 years), Oracle (8 years), Application Development (10+ years), C++ (10+ years), Operations Management (10+ years), Operating Systems (10+ years), Red Hat Enterprise Linux (4 years), Blackberry Enterprise Server (2 years), Remedy (2 years), FTP (6 years), Sharepoint (2 years), Social Media Marketing (5 years), Social Media Management (6 years), Engineering Management (3 years), Enterprise Architecture (10+ years), ITIL (9 years), Sisense (5 years), Business Intelligence (5 years), TibCo Spotfire (3 years) Certifications/Licenses Certified ScrumMaster – ScrumMaster Alliance – Certificate ID: 274235 May 2013 to Present ITIL V3 – APMG Group – Certificate ID: 02308846-01-V18H January 2010 to Present