Senior Computer Scientist Senior Computer Scientist Lead Software Developer / Aspiring Software Architect Albuquerque, NM I'm a passionate software developer who loves creating useful applications to help people get work done. My primary software experience for the past five years has been with C# but before that I used C++ for several years. Furthermore, during my studies I used Java extensively. Over the past five years I've been with a project which has transitioned from an informal development process to a scrum variant process. While working on this project I've gained experience with the complexities of developing a very large application with a growing number of development teams. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Computer Scientist United States Air Force (civilian) - Albuquerque, NM February 2018 to Present Primary Languages: C,C++ (modern),Python,PowerShell  In my position as senior computer scientist within the modeling and simulation branch of the Air Force Research Lab (AFRL/RDMW) I directed programs related to directed energy (DE) modeling and simulation and coordinated teams in their software development efforts. Sr. Software Developer MEI - Albuquerque, NM April 2016 to February 2018 Primary Languages: C,C++ (modern),Python,PowerShell  In my position with MEI Technologies I developed Directed Energy (DE) software models for the Air Force Research Lab (AFRL) and provided technical advice for various programs and events. I primarily developed simulation models for the Advanced Framework for Simulation, Integration, and Modeling (AFSIM).     With regards for the AFSIM models; I developed the following:    High Powered ElectroMagnetics (HPEM) Model – Low-fidelity simulation of HPEM beam propagation and its effects.    High Energy Laser (HEL) Weapon Model – Medium-fidelity simulation of beam propagation and its effects. Used in several AFRL studies.    Other Accomplishments  * I led the development and submission of the MEIT SPECDER proposal.  * AFRL M&S Development Team – Technical lead for the model development team (7 member team).  * Presented model development updates at AFSIM User Group Meetings and to AFSIM Directed Energy Working Group (coordinates DoD DE modeling development for AFSIM & provides input to the AFSIM DE roadmap).  * Presented the models above at DEPS (Directed Energy Professional Society) symposium.  * Software Training – Trained model developers and analysts on new HEL and HPEM model capabilities. Ensured that the latest models were available for AFRL studies and ACE events. Enabled the successful integration of AFSIM in ACR-17.  * Built and implemented a software development environment for AFRL developers. This environment was instrumental to expedite model code generation as well as automatically testing the new models. This has greatly reduced the time required to develop and implement new directed energy models at AFRL. Lead Software Developer Baker Hughes - Delft, MN July 2013 to April 2016 Primary Languages: C#,C/C++  In this position, I was hired as a mid-level software developer and grew into a development/team lead position as the project grew. In the RDS branch of Baker Hughes, I primarily worked on the JewelSuite software package which modeled the earth itself, the reservoir within the earth, various processes for oil and gas extraction, and finally the simulation of that extraction. Over the course my time on this project I worked on each of these elements of the JewelSuite software.    *Initial Position in Albuquerque, NM*  I was first hired at the Baker Hughes office in Albuquerque to develop the JewelSuite model integration with the CMG and Schlumberger ECLIPSE reservoir simulators. This involved both converting the JewelSuite model into a format acceptable by these simulators as well as converting the simulation results back into a JewelSuite format for presentation with the JewelSuite software package. Additionally, in this position I wrote software to generate reports and graphs of the simulation results which would be appropriate for a reservoir engineer to use in presentations and papers.    *Pilot Project with Royal Dutch Shell*  I instrumental in implementing the requirements for a pilot project with Shell which ultimately lead to a $40M+ 4-year join venture between Baker Hughes, Inc. and Shell. These requirements included running two separate simulators in tandem to describe both the reservoir extraction process as well as the geological deformation process resulting from the extraction.    *Final Position in Delft, Netherlands*  Since the pilot project with Shell was successful, the software development team in the Netherlands was expanded from 3 teams 8 teams in order to accommodate the new project. As part of this expansion, I was offered a position at the Netherlands office and a team lead position with the new project. During my time in the Netherlands I was the lead for a team of 6 individuals and was responsible for interfacing with management for planning purposes, status and demonstration updates, as well as software process implementation. I also created a software quality group which created and implemented roadmaps for tools to ensure that software quality was being maintained and for automated that process. Software Developer Baker Hughes - Albuquerque, NM February 2011 to July 2013 Primary Languages: C#,C/C++  Develop and maintain the reservoir simulation component of the JewelSuite product. This  component includes processing JewelSuite data and providing it to a reservoir simulator as well as processing the reservoir simulator's output. Software Developer VanDyke Software, Inc - Albuquerque, NM June 2007 to February 2011 Primary Languages: C#,C/C++  Application programmer for SecureCRT, SecureFX, and VShell.    Company website: www.vandyke.com Software Developer/DBA The University of New Mexico - Albuquerque, NM November 2006 to June 2007 Primary Languages: Java  Developing database applications for the City of Albuquerque, using JSP and Oracle. Network Administrator Institute for Social Research, University of New Mexico August 2006 to November 2006 Computer setup and distribution including software setup. Web Application Developer Department of Justice July 2006 to August 2006 This position was a summer internship. My responsibilities included developing a web  application and technical assistance. The web application was created using Microsoft ASP and Microsoft SQL, and was designed to automate a mail handling task. The system offered  auditing features and administrative functions. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science The University of New Mexico 2002 to 2007 Skills C# (5 years), Microsoft Office (10+ years), C++ (8 years), HTML 5 (3 years), Python (1 year), XAML (Less than 1 year), Qt (2 years), Automated Software Testing (5 years), Unit Testing (8 years), .NET (5 years), Java (1 year), Software Development (6 years), Agile Development Methodologies (7 years), Subversion (5 years), TFS (5 years), WPF (Less than 1 year), Visual Basic, Visual Studio (8 years), Programming (10+ years), Angular 2+ (2 years), ASP.NET Core (Less than 1 year), Visual Studio Team Services (2 years), Typescript (2 years), DevOps (4 years), Ionic Framework (2 years), Javascript, PHP, Git, MYSQL, CSS, Android, Android, Git, CSS, MYSQL Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/justin-becker-72341a2 https://www.vandyke.com/ Certifications/Licenses MCTS 70-515 June 2013 to Present Microsoft Certified Technology Specialist (#70-515) Additional Information Programming Methodologies and Patterns  * Software architectures for large applications   * Decoupling software with dependency abstraction   * Various approaches to native memory management  * Proper memory management in managed languages   * Integrating native legacy code with managed code   * Unit testing, integration testing, end-to-end testing strategies  * Refactoring and testing legacy software so that future work upon it is safer