Software Engineer <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Sr. Software Engineer Boise, ID I am a systems engineer with more than 11 years of experience in software creation and maintenance. I  am passionate about my work, especially on new technologies and how to improve existing software  applications. Work Experience Software Engineer Endava - Buenos Aires October 2018 to July 2019 Work in a globally distributed team (Montevideo, Parana, Seattle, Michigan, Jerusalem) to maintain  current functionality and add new features to Refwork apps (web apps, mac apps, Word add-ins)    Technologies:  Angular.js   Angular 4   MongoDB   CSS, HTML  Git   Java   Spring Boot & MVC  Objective-C   Automated Unit Tests (Cucumber, Geb)  Node.js   TypeScript   JavaScript   Classic ASP & ASP.net  SQL Server Software Engineer Endava - Buenos Aires April 2017 to September 2018 Worked creatively and collaboratively to maintain and add functionality to an accounting system for Bloomberg clients.    Technologies:  ASP.Net MVC 5   C # Language   SQL Server   Javascript, CSS, HTML  jQuery, TypeScript  PowerShell   React  Team Foundation   WCF & asmx Web  Server Services Software Engineer Hewlett-Packard - Buenos Aires November 2015 to March 2017 Created a new version of the CRM for Santander Río, as part of a dynamic team of specialized software  engineers. Managed the frontend and the backend. Provided design and code modules of the new CRM.    Technologies:  ASP.Net MVC 4   C # Language   Oracle database  Javascript  jQuery  SQL   Angular.js  CSS  HTML   Team Foundation   WCF & asmx Web Services Lead Software Engineer Hewlett-Packard - Buenos Aires October 2011 to October 2015 Led a group of Software Developers in different projects. Performed maintenance for TQS Enterprise  Applications, which are responsible for workflow management, document management, events and tasks  management, audits and inspections management.    Responsibilities:  ? Backend maintenance  ? Front end improvements  ? Deployment of document creation functions  ? Development and maintenance of web services and WCF services  ? Code management and versioning repository    Technologies:  jQuery, jQuery UI, jQuery plugins  ASP.Net MVC 2 & 3   C # Language   Oracle database, PL / SQL  ASP.Net Web Forms  Harvest, SVN   CSS, HTML   WCF & asmx Web Services  Team Foundation Server .Net Developer Cubecorp - Buenos Aires April 2010 to September 2011 Created and maintained web applications (AGI, Kodak USA, Pokagon, GotchaBucks, New Trier HS, AGP, Kendall Hunt, Transcend, Alamo) using the CMS 400, as part of Ektron Professional Services  Team. Other duties were:  ? Development of widgets and asp.net handlers.  ? Use and maintenance of Framework widget  ? Developed, collaboratively, the website Ektron.com    Executed new Ektron CMS release, we working together with the USA Engineering Team, as part of the Ektron CMS Engineering Team. Our main duties were:  ? Maintenance of Core Cms  ? Development of new Manager Services  ? Migration of VB.Net code to C #  ? Development of WCF Services  ? Development of Unit Tests    Technologies:  jQuery, jQuery UI, jQuery plugins  ASP.Net MVC 2 & 3   C # Language   SQL Server 2005 and 2008  ASP.Net Web Forms  VB.net  CSS, HTML  Perforce and SVN  WCF & asmx Web Services  .Net 3.5 Framework. .Net Developer Synchro Technologies August 2008 to March 2010 Worked on different projects including:  ? Development of a Management System for one of the big Electrical Company in Argentina, we  used C # with Crystal Reports and Informix.  ? Development of a Web Application for monitoring activities in Asp.Net with C # and MySql.  Involved in the analysis, programming, architecture and documentation Web site.  ? Project Integration between Oracle Identity Manager (OIM), Microsoft Active Directory and Microsoft Exchange Server using Java, C# and C++  ? Development of a Web Application for handling payments to suppliers in Asp.Net with C # and MySql    Technologies:  ASP.Net Web Forms   Crystal Reports  C # Language   SQL Server 2005  Informix   Team Foundation   .Net framework 1.1, 2.0  WCF & asmx Web  MySql Server and SVN & 3.5  Services .Net Developer ACES S.A - Buenos Aires January 2008 to July 2008 Creation of a custom ERP (Windows Forms), using the C # language, Crystal Reports and Sql Server  2005. Involved in programming and system architecture. Education Bachelor's in Computer Science Universidad Abierta Interamericana - Buenos Aires April 2005 to March 2012 Associate in Computer Science Universidad Abierta Interamericana - Buenos Aires April 2005 to December 2008 Skills Git, jQuery, HTML 5, ASP, CSS, .NET (10+ years), Asp.Net (10+ years), Javascript (10+ years), C# (10+ years), Web Services (8 years), Web Development (10+ years) Links http://www.linkedin.com/pub/carlos-segura/28/481/725 Certifications/Licenses Certified ScrumMaster (Scrum Alliance) MCSD: Microsoft Certified Solution Developer - Web Applications Oracle Certified Associate, Java SE 7 Programmer