Software Developer Expert <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Expert Software Developer Expert Ontario, CA Work Experience Software Developer Expert Experian, Inc - Costa Mesa, CA January 2010 to May 2018 Full-time employee in Decision Analytics  • Analyzed and converted mostly undocumented reporting system from Alterian to Cognos 10.  • Installed and administered Cognos 10 and Cognos Analytics 11. Configured content DB, security settings, and defined various user roles to control access levels to Report Studio, Workspace Advanced, and Administration.  • Defined SQL Server databases and created stored procedures to populate tables.  • Created SSIS packages to extract, transform, and load client data to tables.  • Created dimensional data models for each client using Framework Manager.  • Wrote DOS batch scripts to execute SSIS packages.  • Converted Cognos 10 reports, views, and jobs to Cognos Analytics 11.  • Coded Javascript programs to enable advanced prompting and enhance report functionalities.  • Created reports with the following features:  ? Templated header in prompt and report pages to facilitate creation of reports for various clients.  ? Replaced IBM toolbar and page navigation buttons with a control bar to handle page re-prompt, and downloading of Excel reports.  ? Prompt pages with hidden prompts to provide additional measures, options to hide/show value prompts, radio buttons, and single or multi-select value prompts.  ? Report pages contain crosstabs, lists, and charts, and provide conditional styles and optional display of rows and columns driven by options selected in radio buttons and checkboxes.  ? Conditional formatting of report pages in HTML or Excel.  ? Conditional blocks to optionally format specific sections of the reports.  ? Complex query expressions to derive data items and calculated measures.  ? Master/detail report pages controlled by Group By value prompt value.  • Validated and tested all reports. Conducted performance tuning on reports.  • Participated in SCRUM and Agile planning sessions and meetings. Technical Lead Experian, Inc August 2001 to December 2009 Full-time employee in Experian Marketing Services (EMS)  • Managed a team of developers, testers, and analysts in highly-visible projects for Fortune 500 clients.  • Handled all aspects of software development and served as a single point of contact for all projects.  • Prepared detailed conversion and implementation plans and coordinated testing activities with clients.  • Mentored junior team members and provided assistance in debugging and troubleshooting as needed.  • Provided on-call support for real-time and batch applications.  • Completed 3 large projects, 2 database conversions, and 50 small and medium projects in 2008.  • Developed and implemented batch and real-time solutions for clients using COBOL, C, Java, Linux, DB2, CICS, MQSeries, XML, WSDL and SOAP, on time and within budget.  • Reduced update processing time by 92 percent through change detection of transactions.  • Coded all of the DB2 access methods for the Truvue system, and provided debugging and technical assistance to other team members.  • Created an ISPF application using Dialog Manager, DB2, REXX, REXX-SQL, and QMF to enable updates to Truvue system control tables, reconcile metrics of files processed, and monitor jobs. This application has saved many hours of setup time and eliminate errors during production runs.  • Coded programs in C to validate and standardize millions of U.S. addresses using Code1-Plus.  • Enabled automation and concurrent processing of very large transaction files by creating dynamic job streams and applications on OPC (IBM's scheduling software). Education MBA in Finance Ateneo de Manila University BS in Chemical Engineering Far Eastern University Skills Db2, Sql server, Mysql, Oracle, Sql, Vsam, Clist, Html, Javascript, Rexx, Xml, Cognos, T-sql, Cobol, Mainframe, Os/390, Panvalet, Ftp, Soap, Eclipse