Director of Software Engineering Director of <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineering Director of Software Engineering As a veteran of the software industry, I have held positions across the spectrum of software engineering. I began as a software developer, then learned to manage though several disparate development manager roles, and eventually joined senior leadership for a global organization. I have a demonstrated history of delivering quality, cloud native, resilient software platforms engineered to scale and be global in scope. I have focused on improving software efficiency and satisfaction both internally and externally with rock solid architectures built to minimize operational costs for both the business and the customer. My determination in evolving organizational culture to work in the modern Agile space allows for new ideas and reliable delivery. Work Experience Director of Software Engineering CDK Global - Portland, OR 2015 to 2018 General Leadership: In my role as a director, I have been accountable for leading my organizations effectively through managing budgets of millions of dollars, making hard decisions on resource and global staffing, negotiating professional service contracts, and affecting change. In all cases, I played a major role in acquiring, developing, and leading elite engineering and managerial talent to make my staff successful.    Shared Business Services: Built new organization from new and existing resource to drive results in maintaining in-market software and formulizing a strategy to replace them with four new cloud-native (AWS) platforms. These platforms were architected to provide the global business with a set of common tools and services to support forms creation and implementation, content management for all dealer business artifacts, output services to allow for viewing, signing, and cloud printing of content, and a de-coupled, cloud version of our payment processing product that allowed for using multiple payment gateways while avoiding PCI compliance issues.    Fixed Operations: As the leader of this department responsible for automotive service and parts sales/inventory, I implemented change and thought management to an existing suite of products. Changes to leadership structure allowed for more distributed ownership and clearer lines of responsibility to the on-shore and off-shore staff. Implemented tool changes and advocated consolidation of development and production environment resources to use a broader, multi-tenant approach. Software Development Manager ADP Dealer Services - Houston, TX 1999 to 2015 As a development manager, I managed a wide array of projects across several business domains within the auto retailing industry including accounting, financial reporting, service, part sales/inventory, vehicle inventory, and common components for managing CRM/BDC types of information. Some of these systems were product re-writes and some of these were legacy products that required maintenance and evolution to newer technologies, but in all cases, my teams, both on-shore and off-shore, delivered. Senior Software Developer ADP Dealer Services - Houston, TX 1997 to 1999 As part of a start-up venture ultimately bought by ADP, I was one of the early hires to develop a revolutionary dealer management system for the auto industry. In the popular technologies of the time, we delivered a set of client-server applications that made a wave in the auto retailing market. Education Bachelor of Business Administration in Management Information Systems Baylor University Skills automotive (4 years), AWS (4 years), content management (4 years), Operations (4 years), printing (4 years) Additional Information EXPERTISE  Agile Transformation; Critical Communications; Financial Stewardship; Continuous Integration/Continuous Delivery; Modern Software Quality, Performance, Automation and Security Practices; Scaled Operations; Talent Acquisition and Development    STENGTHS  Creating Software Strategies that aligns with business initiatives through understanding the industry needs, existing assets, and revenue opportunities.  Organizational Communication with transparency and "radical candor" from top to bottom through ideation and planning with C-level executives, alignment with peers, and clear direction and vision for the engineering teams.    INNOVATION FOCUS  1871 Innovation Lab (Chicago, IL)  Identified and procured space at a premier innovation lab in downtown Chicago to incubate ideas and create the core of a new, AWS-native forms platform for the automotive industry.  Key platform goals included solving for creation, collaboration, and publishing of forms that auto dealers need to run their business across manufacturers, localities, and departments.    Targeted One-Week Hackathons  While CDK supported yearly global hackathons, I am also a proponent and orchestrator of smaller, more focused hacks. An example of this was proving out particular cross-platform integration concepts that delivered working, functional code.  In the above example, we proved out the new forms platform's downstream integration with other new cloud platforms for content management, digital signing, workflow, and output services including cloud printing.