Junior Java Developer Junior Java <span class="hl">Developer</span> Junior Java Developer - 22ND Century Technologies, Inc • Over 5 year of IT experience in design and development of Object-Oriented Software Application with expertise in Object Oriented Programming using Java, J2EE related technologies.  • Followed Waterfall, Agile methodologies like Test Driven Development (TDD), SCRUM, and Pair Programming.  • Specialized in the systems design and development of reliable and efficient enterprise applications using Java/J2EE technologies, which includes EJB, JDBC, Servlets, JSP, Spring, Hibernate, J2EE design patterns, XML and Web Services.  • Experience in Micro Services implementation.  • Experience in SOAP and REST based Web Services and SOA, AJAX Technology, RMI, JNDI, MVC Custom development.  • Proficient in designing and developing presentation layer components using JSP, Servlets, JSTL, Struts, AJAX in developing rich web applications using HTML, CSS, JQuery, AJAX and Java Script.  • Expertise in developing business logic using EJB, spring and data access layers using JDBC and Hibernate.  • Experience with Linux, Ubuntu in bare-metal and Cloud-based infrastructure.  • Experience in using Application servers like Tomcat.  • Experience in evaluating and researching best suitable technologies and tools that are compatible with the current architecture and the business needs.  • Experienced in software development methodologies like Agile, Waterfall, SDLC and Rational Unified Process (RUP)  • Highly motivated team player, proactive, quick learner with excellent communication, organizational and analytical skills. Work Experience Junior Java Developer 22ND Century Technologies, Inc May 2018 to Present Description: 22ND Century has extensive experience in delivering agile project. Our agile methodology is a hybrid model combining best practices from scrum, lean and Extreme Programming. Giving its services worldwide in business, technology environment. This is my initial project where I worked initially as Java Intern and worked as full time developer. It gives all support to well-trained employers.  Responsibilities:  • Analyzed requirements & developed use cases.  • Used Hibernate as ORM tool for storing buyers and sellers' information in database.  • Involved in development of DAO classes using hibernate HQL.  • Configured Java beans in the Hibernate Mapping to represent ORM.  • Created user-friendly graphical user interfaces with HTML and Java Server Pages.  • Involved in development of the Application front end using JSP with extensive usage of Struts tag libraries, JSTL and Custom Tag Libraries.  • Implemented Struts framework for developing the business logic.  • Participated in configuration of web.xml and struts-config.xml.  • Used Commons Validation framework for validating forms.  • Implemented business rules for enquiry and quotation, and code for validating input field and displaying error messages.  • Developed Action Classes and Action Forms beans.  • Used Eclipse IDE to develop Java code.  • Deployed the application in JBoss Application Server in development and production environment.  • Integrated various modules and deployed them in JBoss Application Server.  • Implemented Business Services using the Core java and spring.  Environment: Java, Hibernate, spring (AOP, Dependency Injection), XML, JSP, Spring MVC, J2EE, JUnit, Maven, Web Sphere, SOA, SOAP, My Sql workbench. Associate Software Engineer Spectrum InfoTech - IN September 2013 to November 2016 Description: This project is a web based application developed using HTML and JavaScript. This application is developed for a consulting and Designing IT service company that delivers system and the Application Integration-Business, e-commerce, database technologies and also web services specialized technology staffing and a spectrum of other IT services to enhance the client company flexibility, and improve their business and IT performance.  Responsibilities:  • Analyzed requirements & developed use cases.  • Designed user interface layout using CSS, HTML.  • Used Spring Framework as middle tier application framework, persistence strategy using spring support for Hibernate for integrating with database.  • Created new database objects like Sequences, Procedures, Functions, Packages, Triggers, Indexes and Views in Development and Production environment using My SQL.  • Created JSP pages decorated using CSS.  • Involved in development of the Application front end using JSP with extensive usage of Struts tag libraries, JSTL and Custom Tag Libraries.  • Implemented Struts framework for developing the business logic.  • Participated in configuration of web.xml and struts-config.xml.  • Used Commons Validation framework for validating forms.  • Implemented business rules for enquiry and quotation, and code for validating input field and displaying error messages.  • Developed Action Classes and Action Forms beans.  • Used Eclipse IDE to develop Java code.  • Consumed Restful Web Services to establish communication between different applications.  • Implemented Business Services using the Core java and spring.  Environment: Java, J2EE (Servlets, JDBC), Spring 3(Spring AOP, Spring IOC, Spring Theme framework, Spring MVC, Spring Annotations), JMS, RESTful Web Services, HTML, Apache Tomcat, Maven. Education Masters in Information Technology in Information Technology University of Potomac Skills Eclipse, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Jsp, Jstl, Servlets, Database, Jdbc, Oracle, Sql, Html, Ajax, Css, Soa, Tomcat, Web services, Soap, Maven, Jira Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Languages Java, J2EE and HTML  Java/J2EE Technologies Servlets, JDBC, JSP, JSTL, Java Mail, and Web Services, RESTful, SOAP, SOA, AJAX Technology  Web Technologies HTML, CSS, Java Script, AJAX, Apache tomcat, ADF Oracle  Frameworks Hibernate, spring, ADF Oracle  Software's SPSS, MS-Office  Testing and Building Tools log4j, ant, JIRA, Confluence, Stash& Maven, postman  Operating Systems Windows, UNIX, Linux, Ubuntu  IDE Tools Eclipse, JDeveloper 12c  Database My SQL