Senior Software Developer Senior <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Software Developer Franklin, MA Work Experience Senior Software Developer Rez-1, Inc August 2005 to July 2019 Blume Global (formerly Rez-1, Inc)  • Contributor to the development of a GCP based micro-services applications to monitor asset tracking  information.  • On-going enhancement and support of java based etl and server-side applications.  • Developed and executed Talend training curriculum for offshore employees.  • Developed and executed offshore knowledge transfer curriculum for applications written in java and Talend.  This knowledge transfer consisted of in person visits to India as well as remote training sessions.  • Key contributor to successfully integrate acquisition of competitor into employer's existing software framework  under tight deadlines and financial commitments. Integration work was written in Java and Talend.  • Mentored junior software developers in the learning of the Talend software development tool.  • Key contributor to proof of concept project for determining next generation cloud based data warehouse  application (AWS vs. Google Cloud).  • Key member of team that designed, developed and supported Java based etl application.  • Led the design and development effort for all Talend based etl applications.  • Advanced the quality of business intelligence reporting by designing and developing a Java based BI auditing  application used to verify the externally facing report information  • Developed node-js application to automate testing related tasks that were originally performed manually by development team.  • Developed and implemented Talend training program for co-workers.  • Developed prototype tracking application based over a Neo4j database.  • Led team of developers during re-write of i-series based billing application.    Skills: Java, Talend, Kotlin, MySQL, Tomcat, Linux, Spring, Hibernate, JUnit, Agile, Git, SVN, Jira, Jenkins, ETL/Datawarehouse, Eclipse. IntelliJ, Toad, MySQL Workbench, Object oriented programming, Pair  Programming, Integration Senior Software Developer (Consultant) IBA Software Technologies (@ TJX) December 2004 to August 2005 • Key member of team that supported and enhanced client's i-series based distribution system.  • Led effort to implement i-series based change control application.    Skills: RPG/LE, DB2, Java, Eclipse Senior Software Developer Tyco Healthcare March 2003 to December 2004 • Key member of team that developed and supported i-series based order entry system.  • Led development efforts for i-series and WebMethods based B2B applications to greatly improve the placement  of product orders for the customer base.    Skills: RPG/LE, DB2, WebMethods, Java Software Developer (Consultant) Ciber (@ Bayer Diagnostics) January 1995 to March 2003 Key member of team that designed, developed, implemented, and supported client's new order entry  application.  • Developed Java based sales reporting application to help client better track monthly sales trends.  • Led the development and execution of a training program to teach one of the client's software development  teams how to use the software development tool used to develop the client's new order entry application.  • Designed, developed, and implemented the client's first B2B application that allowed for the client to participate  in a then new electronic healthcare marketplace.  • Key member of team that implemented the SAP financial module to integrate with client's order entry system.  • Designed, developed, and implemented key components in client's order entry application to allow for the integration of the SAP financial module with the order entry application.    Skills: Synon, RPG/LE, DB2, Java, JBuilder, ABAP Education Finance Providence College January 1987 to May 1994 Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/%20thomas-grady-55646312