SENIOR SOFTWARE DEVELOPER SENIOR <span class="hl">SOFTWARE</span> <span class="hl">DEVELOPER</span> SENIOR SOFTWARE DEVELOPER - UST GLOBAL * Around 9 years of experience in Software industry  * Around 1 year of exposure in working in client site at critical project situations.  * 2+ years of experience in the Lead Role.  * Expertise in manual Application testing, Bugzilla, QC, MKS, Kronos, Lawson.  * Extended knowledge in analyzing creation of test cases, test scripts for carrying out tests of the software at various stages in the SDLC. Work Experience SENIOR SOFTWARE DEVELOPER UST GLOBAL August 2010 to Present JOB RESPOSIBLITIES IN PRESENT ORGANIZATION  ? Onsite Exposure (1 year)  ? Lead of Offshore team (2 years)  ? Designing, coding and testing  ? Enhancing the existing code with new features.  ? Bug Fixing and support.  ? Project Documentation for future reference.  ? Job Monitoring and fixing in case of halts.  ? Knowledge Transfering.    ? PROJECTS    ? Project #8:Anthem - Medisys Alchemist  ? Medisys is an ongoing project which deals with issues related to medical insurance, plans, benefits, enrollments, claims and changes in the third party insurers. The project follows the agile model and demands, identifying the objects that get impacted with the new changes and requires manual testing, unit testing, end to end testing, test data preparation, test plan preparation etc.    ? Testing, Test plan preparation, Team Coordination    ? Software Used:  ? SQL server 2014, Jira, X-ray, ETL Testing    ? Project #7:Costco - Merchandise Modernization Izer  ? Merchandise Modernization Izer is an ongoing project which deals with migrating legacy systems and tools of merchandize modernization to SAP. The project demands, identifying the objects that require changes, testing the changes and various phases of interfaces, querying the data, verifying the error messages, troubleshooting and monitoring the possible issues.    ? Testing, Troubleshooting, Peer review  ? Analysis, document preparation    ? Software Used:  ? iSeries, ezview, CR tool, x-analysis, SQL    Project #6:Costco - Bulk Tokenization  Bulk Tokenization is a critical project, which deals with replacement of credit card storage in the existing Order Power system, in order to ensure that the Order Power system is compliant to the PCI regulatory authority's standards. The records corresponding to the entire orders which are encrypted using the Nubridges version will be decrypted and encrypted with new PCI compliant key and send to Middleware as batches in the predetermined CSV format. It will be processed in middleware side to send back the tokens, which is a combination of Payment ID and Card holder ID.The tokens will be then stored in the Order Power system in a different file mapping the entire records. The encrypted credit card numbers in the system will be then masked with all except last 4 digits of its decrypted credit card number.  Coding, testing, Peer review  Analysis, document preparation    Software Used:  iSeries, ezview, CR tool, x-analysis, SQL, Robot    Project #5:Costco - Order Power  Order Power deals with the entire flow of order processing, from the orders being placed by customers through e-commerce warehouse, business centers and business delivery warehouses, until the final physical delivery of the product to the customer.  Roles & Responsibilities  Interacting with the client and the customers, resolving tickets, providing suggestions, two and fro communications and making good rappot with them.  • Coding, Enhancements and bug fixing, testing, Peer review, document preparation  • Monitoring jobs and fixing in case of any halts  • 24* 7 production support    Software Used:  iSeries, Robot, JAVA    Project #4:Costco - ERP Payroll  ERP Payroll deals with the data mapping from AS400 systems to SAP. It includes alerting in case of any data mismatch or discrepancy and its fixing.  Roles & Responsibilities  SQL Query creation, document preparation    Software Used:  SQL Developer, Jspring, Core JAVA, VMware, Selenium    Project #3:Costco - HRIS  HRIS deals with the Payroll of the Costco Employees. Need to do production support and enhancements like automation of certain procedures, report generation, including additional features and bug fixes.  Roles & Responsibilities  Coding, Enhancements and bug fixing, testing, Peer review, document preparation, Quality Analyzing    Software Used:  iSeries, Kronos, Lawson, Robot, X-analysis    Project #2:Hanes Brands Inc(HBI) - Showcase  Maintaining the data for HBI and ensuring the data flows to all the various units like Order Processing, POS, Datawarehousing, Shipment etc, flawlessly. Needed to monitor the jobs running and to fix immediately in case of any job failure.  Roles & Responsibilities  Data Maintanence, job monitoring, bug fixing(24*7), enhancements and coding    Software Used:  iSeries, Robot, SQL Developer, Core JAVA    Project #1: Shoppers JDA Upgrade  JDA is the software company who modified version from V4 TO V7.5 in AS400 . Needed to work on objects which got affected by the JDA UPGRADE(VERSION CHANGE)and modify the objects according to JDA standards in AS400 environment  Roles & Responsibilities  IAR(Impact Analysis Report), Coding and manual testing on objects according to JDA UPGRADE(VERSION 4R4 TO 750), Peer Review  Software Used:  iseries, EDT, Jspring, Core JAVA    Case Study in Mainframe  The scope of the project includes creating a TRAVEL AGENCY APPLICATION, which helps the registered and unregistered customers to check for the availability of tickets, book, cancel and reschedule them as per their need and provide the report generation facility for the administration.  The scope of the project includes:  • System development  • Testing & Validation Cognizant Technology Services July 2009 to July 2010 Education B.Tech in Electronics and Communication Engineering Amal Jyothi College of Engineering 2004 to 2008 Training Details training in ILP training program 2002 Certification APTECH - Kochi, KERALA, IN Additional Information SKILLS SUMMARY  Operating Systems: Windows, UNIX, MS-DOS  Languages: SQL, PL/SQL, C, C++, AS400-RPGLE, RPGILE, JAVA, AS2, AS3  Databases: SQLserver2003  Tools: Flash, Maximo, x-analysis, Kronos, Lawson, ETL Testing, SQL Developer  Technology: AS400, Mainframe