PeopleSoft/WorkDay Technical Consultant PeopleSoft/WorkDay Technical Consultant PeopleSoft/WorkDay Technical Consultant New York, NY ? PeopleSoft Certified PeopleTools Professional.  ? 10+ years of experience as Technical Consultant in implementation, Customization, Upgrades, Testing, Maintenance and Production Support of PeopleSoft HCM, CRM, EPM and Campus Solutions systems.  ? Good knowledge and experience of Workday integration architecture and build.  ? Expertise in all kinds of Workday integrations and reports including delivered and custom integrations/reports.  ? Developed and modified PeopleCode to implement specific business rules and validations to enable the PeopleSoft system to perform the business process.  ? Proficient on PeopleTools such as Application Designer, Fluid UI, Component Interface, Application Engine, Integration Broker, Data Mover, SQR, PeopleSoft Query, Process Scheduler, Application Package, XML Publisher/BI Publisher and Process Monitor.  ? Have Good understanding on BORM, Customer Data Model.  ? Good understanding of Campus community, student records, Recruiting and admissions.  ? Implementing and Customization of Pages, Records and Menus using People Tools and Object oriented PeopleCode.  ? Extensively worked on Integration Broker to integrate with third party systems.  ? Hands-on expertise with data migration tools such as Data Mover.  ? Proficient in writing SQL queries, Stored Procedures and PL/SQL programs.  ? Have strong communication skills, well organized and able to work as individual or as part of a team. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience PeopleSoft/WorkDay Technical Consultant SIEPL Inc - Bengaluru, Karnataka February 2014 to April 2019 I. PeopleSoft/Workday Support and Maintenance, SIEPL. Feb 14 – Till Date    SIEPL is a ERP solutions intergrator consulting company based out of Atlanta, GA and Bangalore, India. As PeopleSoft/WorkDay Technical consultant have worked on maintenance, enhancement and migration of HCM module for multiple clients of SIEPL.     Roles and Responsibilities:  • Worked as a technical consultant overlooking support and enhancement of modules in Core HR, Compensation and Pension Administration modules of HCM, Sales n Support Modules of CRM.  • Redesigned technically some of the existing processes according to the redefined business process. Involved in retrofitting the customizations to Pages, PeopleCode, Application Engine programs during the support.  • Implemented changes to PeopleCode, Components, Pages, Fluid Pages, Reports to customize the delivered processes.  • Configuration changes as per customer requirements.   • Assisted with structuring and setup of employee permission list and user roles and department level security.  • Working with client team members, onsite development team to resolve production issues.   • Working on regular maintenance like requirement understanding, design, review meeting with client business team, configuration testing and go live support.  • Created custom reports and modified delivered standard reports using Workday report writer like HR Changes, Compensation Changes, Benefit plans enrollment, Payroll Changes etc.   • Designed and built Workday integrations using Document Transformation, EIB, Cloud Connectors and Custom Report Writer.   • Workday ‘Business Process’ configuration and maintenance.  • Created Advanced reports, Calculated fields, Composite and Integration reports in Workday.   • Configuration changes as per customer requirements.   • Creation / Execution of Test Cases.    Environment: PeopleSoft 9.X, PeopleTools 8.5X Oracle DB, Workday 28/29. Programmer Analyst Jean Martin Inc - New York, NY May 2005 to January 2014 Client: Fedex, TN  Nov 2009 - Nov 2013    Nexus is an integrated family of PeopleSoft CRM, HR and Mainframe applications, enabling technical support for internal and external customers who request, use, and repair the technologies deployed by FedEx.    Responsibilities:  • Design, development and customization of pages.  • Development of components/pages and code based on business/user requirements.  • Customization and enhancement of existing business applications.  • Development and enhancement of stored procedures and triggers on Sybase/SQL.  • Extensively involved in the Object Migration from DEV to TST and UAT.  • Production support of the current application.    Environment: HP-Unix, PeopleSoft 9.X/ Vantive 8.0 and Sybase.    Client: Apollo, AZ  Jan 2012 - June 2012    The MyHR Redesign project involves the re-design to the Core HR data and processes to resolve usability and data integrity issues experienced by peoplesoft end users. The proposed structure focuses on lines of business, the legal entities they are comprised of, and the functions they perform. This aligns with current organization chart and relevant HR reporting needs. Also, with the redesign of business units to lines of business, reducing the number of business units from 20 to 5.    Responsibilities:  • Identification/Impact assessment of hard coded setid transactions.  • Enhancement/customization of self-service transactions like ‘Flexible work schedule’,   ‘Telecommute request’ and ‘Protected status/Self identify’.  • Enhancement/customization of pay rate change transactions like ‘Request Pay Rate Change’  and ‘Approve Pay Rate Change’.  • Technical specs/Migration report and unit testing for assigned work items.  • Developed a bolt-on admission module used by the Admissions department for analyzing applicant data, making admissions decisions, and facilitating the admissions process for graduate applicants.  • Worked with the admissions department to gather functional requirements.  • Developed Online Setup Pages and Applicant Evaluation Pages.  • Developed an App-Engine Process to process Admission Decisions captured from the Decision Dashboard Pages.    Environment: HP-Unix, PeopleSoft HCM and Campus Solutions 9.0, PeopleTools 8.51, PeopleCode and Application Designer.    Client: CITI, NYC, NY  June 2007 - Aug 2009    For implementing the Basel II regulatory reporting requirements, it is imperative that processes to be in place to ensure that the credit data collected, which will be used for capital calculations, is consistent with the exposures reported on the financial books.     Responsibilities:  • Customizing PeopleSoft components to meet the business requirements.  • Enhancement of ‘portfolio management’ component for portfolio parameter calculations.  • Developed PeopleCode functions to improve the performance of ‘batch parameter’ component loading.  • Analytical data system, which provides PeopleSoft pages, to select a subset of data (tables and portfolio’s) from Basel II GCBC (PeopleSoft) database and transfer the same to ‘analytical database’.    Environment: HP-Unix, PeopleSoft 8.8, PeopleCode, Application Designer, Application Engine and Oracle 9i.    Client: Panasonic, NJ  Mar 2006 - Feb 2007    The ‘Plasma Loaner’ project Nov 06 – Feb 07.  The Plasma Loaner Program aims to capture the various customer interactions in the process and track the movement of the TV through the various stages of the Loaner lifecycle. Through appropriate technology investments and intelligent data capture Panasonic service operations can track “expensive” plasma TV inventory dedicated to this program..    Responsibilities:  • Developing the control screens (i.e. PeopleSoft components) for the loaner status and also modifying the existing loaner components to track the movement of loaner items.  • Development of an application engine to send workflow notifications to the provider group on various stages of loaner cycle.  • Unit testing and UAT of the developed application.    The ‘Plasma Concierge’ project May 06 – Oct 06  The plasma concierge will offer the Panasonic plasma television customer’s a coordinated, multi-channel set of information and repair service offerings, including web self-help information, an on-line service request form, and both telephone and web chat access to dedicated Plasma-skilled call center agents, who will provide technical advice and assist in scheduling repair service.    Responsibilities:  • Preparation of technical specs based on the business requirements document.  • Real-time Integration with Panasonic website application for creation of user profile, customer, case and notes in PeopleSoft using integration broker framework.  • Created messages and accompanying PeopleCode to parse the XML and create the user profile, customer, case and notes in PeopleSoft CRM BORM.  • Unit testing and UAT of the developed application.    The 'Dealer Locator' search enhancement Mar. 06 – May 06   The PeopleSoft ‘Dealer locator’ applications currently provides information for customers interested in purchasing Panasonic products. The call center and website access the same database of information and present it in a slightly different manner. But the current database searches are based at product category level and leads to inaccurate and sometimes invalid store front information. The proposed application will receive model-based storefront information from Panasonic DW repository and the product search will be based on the model and product category.    Responsibilities:  • To get a thorough understanding of existing application and the proposed fix.  • Defined Users, Roles and Permission lists using Maintain Security.  • To modify the dealer locator search engine to query the database by model number and   product category.  • Allow an agent to search for the nearest dealer by model and product category.  • Preparation of Technical Specs Document.  • Unit testing and UAT of the modified application.    Environment: NT Server, PeopleSoft 8.8, Application Designer, PeopleCode, Integration Broker and Oracle 8.    Client: Thomson, NJ  May 2005 - Dec 2005    This assignment involved me working on the correspondence management requirements for the conference registration. The requirements were for sending correspondence on attendee confirmation, on rescheduling the event, reminder for the event and also sending across certifications for participating in the event. The same is being achieved by customizing the OOB correspondence management functionality. Also was involved in configuring workflows for customized components through Active analytics framework. I have done extensive coding on PeopleCode for this assignment.    Responsibilities:  • To develop/customize the OOB correspondence management using PeopleCode.  • Integrate correspondence with the programs and registration components.  • To configure workflows for the programs and registration components.  • Done analysis and ran compare reports between source and target systems.  • Involved in analysis of deleted, changed and added PeopleSoft objects and functionality. changes in 8.9 to retrofit client customizations.  • Retrofitted PeopleSoft objects like records, fields, CI, application engine, components, pages and PeopleCode.  • Preparation of Technical Specs Document.  • Unit testing of the correspondence management functionality.    Environment: NT Server, PeopleSoft 8.9, Application Designer, Application Engine, PeopleCode and Oracle 9i. Senior Software Developer Hexaware Technologies - Bangalore City, Karnataka February 2004 to April 2005 This assignment involves fixing incidents reported by PeopleSoft global support center on HCM modules (Workforce Admin, Base Benefits and Self Service) and CRM (Sales and Support), and then send across the resolution. PeopleSoft will post the resolution packages in the customer connection, indicating acceptance. Have worked extensively on PeopleTools, Application Designer, Peoplecode, BORM and Debugging the application using PeopleCode Debug and Trace options.    Responsibilities:  • To Scope the PeopleSoft incidents assigned  • Providing fix for the PeopleSoft incidents  • Done analysis and ran compare reports between source and target systems.  • Preparation of code review document  • Unit testing of the fixed PeopleSoft incident    Environment: NT Server, PeopleSoft HCM 8.X, CRM 8.9, 8.8, 8.4, Application Designer, PeopleCode, Application Engine, Test Director 7.6 and SQL Server 7.0. Senior Software Developer iGate Global Solutions - Eberstadt, DE June 2002 to January 2004 SCORE is a customer support system based on the support module of Vantive CRM.  It has been extensively customized to meet the requirements of software AG.  Software AG is into software solutions, having leading products like ADABAS, TAMINO etc.  This particular system is designed and developed to take care of the customer support issues for these software products.    Responsibilities:  • Enhancement and maintenance of Vantive Support objects.  • Development and maintenance of VBA Scripts  • Testing of the module  • Bug fixing on their existing system    Environment: NT Server, Vantive CRM and SQL Server 6.5. Senior Software Developer US Interactive Ltd - Mumbai, Maharashtra August 2001 to May 2002 The project involved customization of PeopleSoft CRM 8 as part of the unified desktop for processing orders and getting billing information into it from Portal Infranet using the E2E Hub.    Responsibilities:  • Development of 'Plan' and 'Adjustment' Components  • Creating 'fields', building 'records', development of 'pages' and 'components'.  • Development of PeopleCode scripts and functions  • Preparation of 'Low level design' documents  • Preparation of 'Work User Specification' documents    Environment: Solaris 5.7 and NT Server, PeopleSoft CRM 8.x, Application Designer, PeopleCode, SQR, Process scheduler, Portal Infranet 6.1, e2eHub 3.1.3 and Oracle 8.1.7. Senior Software Developer US Interactive Ltd - Rome, IT December 2000 to July 2001 TELCOCARE is a 'Customer Care' package built over Vantive. Telcocare interfaces Arbor BP as billing system with ConnectEx as application integration tool. Telcocare is configured to be an 'Order Management' system implementing compatibility matrix for validating orders. Telcocare order management is also integrated with the provisioning system developed by third party, using ConnectEx.    Responsibilities:  • Writing VBA scripts and functions for various field and form level validations.  • Design and development of Vantive screens.  • Writing PL/SQL procedures to implement the functionality required.  • Bug fixing on the existing 'Customer care' application.    Environment: HP-UNIX Machine, Vantive 8.0, Oracle 8, ConnectEx and HP UNIX. Senior Software Developer US Interactive Ltd - Munich, DE August 2000 to November 2000 for O2, Munich, Germany. Aug. 00 - Nov. 00    The objective of the SALCUS Project is to provide customer service interface to the VIAG employees. The system gives a unified view for the customer service representatives. It has order and tariff modules, which help the customer service representatives to deal with sales and order related issues effectively.    Responsibilities:  • Developed Corridor Plan Object and Embedded the Vangrid controls on corridor plan page.  • Writing VBA scripts and functions for various field and form level validations.  • Writing PL/SQL procedures to implement the functionality required.  • Preparation of test cases for Testing.  • Preparation of User release notes.  • Preparation of Technical release notes.  • Bug Fixing for the existing system.    Environment: HP-UNIX Machine, Vantive 7.0 and Oracle 7.3 on HP-UNIX Senior Software Developer CSC INC - Bangalore City, Karnataka February 2000 to May 2000 The Strategic objective of the Multi-Channel Platform (MCP) is to obtain a uniform client profile across the distribution channels of the bank (including branch offices and all centers) The MCP will empower the sales professionals in day-to-day dealings with clients, by institutionalizing the knowledge base. It will enable the creation of a centralized database of client information that can be accessed by each 'sales' professional.    Responsibilities:  • Identification and creation of Objects required to meet the functionality  • Writing VBA scripts and functions for various field and form level validations.  • Exploration of Survey Template functionality.  • Preparation of test cases for Unit testing.  • Unit testing of modules involved.    Environment: IBM Server, Vantive 8.0, SQL Server 6.5 and Windows NT Software Developer CSC Inc - Bangalore City, Karnataka December 1998 to January 2000 The CBRE Maintenance Project involves maintenance and enhancement for the Vantive applications developed originally by CBRE. Design and development for new requirements, coding, unit testing, integration testing and assistance to on-site during acceptance testing also come under the scope of the project.    Module I: IG/IP Maintenance Project for CB Richard Ellis Sep. 99 – Jan. 00  The strategic objective of this module, which is developed as an extension of Vantive Sales module is to primarily focus on servicing a set of premium CBRE clients in the Institutional Customer segment. The shared communication platform will empower the Sales Professional in day-to-day dealings with the clients by creating a centralized database of specified client information that can be accessed by each 'sales' professional.     Responsibilities:  • I was involved in designing and developing the interface between IG/IP & PropertyFirst system.  • Developed PERL scripts to run server side background process to retrieve data from the database using oracle procedures, write it to a flat file and pass it on to the Property first system. Similarly, getting information from the Property First system periodically and populating the Opportunity records through Oracle Triggers.  • Developed PL/SQL procedures and a trigger to take care of writing to a flat file, reading from flat file and inserting the data from flat file to an oracle table.  • Preparation of test cases for Unit Testing.     Module II: Property Information Management System for CBRE. Feb. 99 – Sep. 99  The objective of the PIMS module was to capture the property information for CBRE. The PIMS module aimed at creating a centralized database of property information. Hence, it involved the whole gamut of property related matters like buying, selling, making the property available, transaction, etc.     Responsibilities:  • I was involved in modifying screens, coding VBA scripts.  • Writing PL/SQL procedures to meet additional functional requirements.  • Preparing test cases for unit testing.    Module III: Global Client Database for CB Richard Ellis Dec. 98 – Feb. 99  The primary objective of this module was to develop a system for building a database of CBRE’s global clients and to keep track of the transactions undertaken with them.    Responsibilities:  • Development of Vantive Screens.  • Preparing test cases for unit testing at offshore.  • Testing of Vantive screens and VBA Code to meet the specified functional requirements.    Environment: IBM Server, Vantive 8.0, Oracle 7.3 and Windows NT Software Developer CSC Inc - Bangalore City, Karnataka May 1998 to October 1998 The purpose of the project is to make all the COBOL - 74 programs Y2K compliant.  The source codes were first converted on PC. We used Microsoft Visual Source Safe for version control of the sources. The system flow was later carried out at onsite.    Responsibilities:  • Carry out the Conversion of affected COBOL code.  • Compilation of the COBOL code on Unisys mainframe.  • Testing of the affected COBOL programs on Unisys mainframe.    Environment: Unisys A19 Mainframe, COBOL 74, DMS II and Cande Education Bachelor of Engineering in Engineering Bangalore University Skills Peoplesoft (10+ years), Oracle (5 years), Workday (2 years) Certifications/Licenses Peoplesoft Certified Peopletools Professional March 2004 to Present I have undergone bootcamp training from PeopleSoft at their Bangalore facility, so as to be part of the PeopleSoft product support team.    PeopleSoft certification was the prerequisite to be part of the product support team. Additional Information Technical Skills    ERP: Workday, PeopleSoft HCM 8.X, 9.X, CRM 8.X, 9.X, EPM 8.8 and Vantive  Tools: Application Designer, Application Engine, Vantive Designer and Tools.  Database: Oracle, DB2 and SQL Server 6.5  Languages: PeopleCode, SQL, PL/SQL, VBA, SQR, PERL, Java and COBOL.    Operating Systems: Windows NT, MS-DOS and UNIX