Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Scrum Master - BLUESCOPE BUILDINGS NORTH AMERICA Portland, TN I love finding ways to leverage a teams skills and tools available to make our day to day processes more efficient. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Developer BLUESCOPE BUILDINGS NORTH AMERICA - Portland, TN May 2018 to Present Providing support to IT personnel in designing, developing, analyzing, testing, debugging and executing C# programs for windows desktop applications.  ? Maintain Tekla Model Template, Reports, etc.  ? Assisting project Manager in defining detailed specifications for work item scope. Product Owner NUCOR GROUP SERVICES - Portland, TN October 2016 to May 2018 Collaborate with Management/End users to Scope large projects that provide the most value to our detailing departments across NBG  ? Clearly expressing backlog items to development team using experience as a programmer to better support the team.  ? Work with other Teams within Group Services to foster One NBG vision  ? Provide leadership/work advice to Detailing Tools( software team) teammates  ? Lead KBS consolidation efforts throughout 2016-2017 in efforts to maintain a single set of tools within the KBS brand.  ? Lead ABCNV Consolidation for detailing tools to allow release of ABC Product in to NBSUT plant within 2 months.  ? Provide troubleshooting, analysis, and solutions for end-user issues. Software Developer Nucor Buildings Group - Portland, TN November 2014 to October 2016 Focus on creating cohesive, multi-branded engineering/detailing solutions with primary emphasis on 3D BIM software (Tekla Structures) and C# programming language  ? Apply Scrum principles and practices to development and testing.  ? Hold my team accountable by aggressively participating in planning and retro meetings.  ? Increase quality and reliability of code base through unit testing and code reviews  ? Help mentor newer teammates to instill good software development practices in them.  ? Help train testers/ developers on KBS detailing practices/standards to better support KBS detailing department from an IT standpoint.  ? Provide troubleshooting, analysis, and solutions for end-user issues. Tekla Developer ( Software Developer) KIRBY BUILDING SYSTEMS - Portland, TN February 2013 to November 2014 Worked with Detailing Department and Shop to Increase Shop Drawing Creation speed by 400% while making dimensioning standards better for fitters.  ? Created and Maintained KBS Tekla Modeling Tools.  ? Best Marked Tools from other brands for use within KBS.  ? Integrate MBS design software output into Tekla Structures. BIM Coordinator Kirby Building Systems March 2012 to February 2013 Created and Edited Anchor Bolt Plans, Erection Drawings, and Fabrication Drawings.  ? Check Anchor Bolt, Permit and Approval Drawings.  ? Maintained KBS Detailing Manual.  ? Created and Maintained KBS Fab/Erection Drawing Templates in Tekla.  ? Created and Maintained Custom Components and Tekla Plugins for use within KBS Drafting Department. Detailer Erection Drawings, and Shop Drawings May 2008 to March 2012 Part time from March 2008 - May 2008)    ? Created and Edited Anchor Bolt Plans, Erection Drawings, and Shop Drawings.  ? Model Structures by hand based upon engineering packet provided from design.  ? Create productivity tools for Drafting department in Autocad. Education High school or equivalent in Computer Science Volunteer State Community College - Gallatin, TN 2017 High school or equivalent Westmoreland High School - Portland, TN Skills VISUAL STUDIO, C# (7 years), AUTOCAD (10+ years), TRAINING, MICROSOFT OFFICE (10+ years), Git, Tekla Structures (10+ years) Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Scrum Master August 2019 to August 2021 https://bcert.me/bc/html/show-badge.html?b=mfjnaeqd Additional Information ? Proficient using visual studio  ? Expert in C# .net programming language.  ? Expert in AutoCad and Tekla Structures.  ? Proficient in Microsoft Office Suite.  ? Thrive in collaborative environment.  ? Innovative Thinker: constantly looking for ways to improve processes.  ? Great Listening skills.  ? Web and tech savvy, require little to no training.  ? Able to juggle multiple tasks well.