Software Engineer <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Software engineer with a focus on backend technologies, interest on security and experience across the entire software development lifecycle Perth Amboy, NJ Software engineer with a focus on backend technologies, interest on security and experience across the entire software development lifecycle. Comprehensive background with languages like Java and Javascript (Node.js). Experienced with web technologies in both frontend and backend stacks as well as working in a microservices architecture. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Engineer Lifion, by ADP - New York, NY May 2017 to April 2019 • Worked on Metadata testing team where while using Node.js and React I contributed in the implementation of test report utilities that were used by all internal teams  • Worked on Metadata Design and tooling team where I designed and developed Node.js microservices and npm packages that compiled/decompiled metadata, a domain specific language which is the base of the Lifion platform and therefore consumed by all other development teams  • Took full ownership of our media service, which included bug fixes and the development of new features, as well as designing a new architectural solution to support greater scalability of the media service  • Designed a metadata tool module, a critical tool designed to upgrade all platform teams' metadata in a smooth and safe way. which I also containerized it to make it easier to use for all teams  • Collaborated with different teams in multiple projects, some of them critical to the reliability of the organization such as the proper setup and implementation of AWS IAM in Kubernetes  • Contributed by finding bugs and security vulnerabilities around the platform and reporting or fixing them when necessary.  • Provided Level 3 production support including engaging with users directly, triaging issues, identifying solutions or workarounds, and implementing code fixes when necessary Software Developer EnTech - Bridgewater, NJ September 2016 to March 2017 • Worked as a Java backend developer on the Reference implementation components used across the organization.  • Implemented a new test harness bundled with unit and integration tests to drive & promote system stability.  • Responsible for implementing the transition from SOAP to REST on the RI Test Harness team.  • Integrated Chef Developer Kit with Vagrant to make local development easier for developers.  • Presented advanced JMockit skills to multiple teams.  • Created a continuous integration flow to automate builds and deploy processes.  • Managed builds, tests, and releases together in a single workflow using Bamboo, integrated with JIRA for planning, tracking and reporting purposes. ERP Analyst Mistras Group, Inc. - Princeton Junction, NJ September 2006 to July 2015 • Implemented financial processes and systems within new offices and companies with minimal business impact.  • Supported "IFS Applications" ERP for employees from all over the world.  • Managed admin activities such as creation of new IFS user accounts, changes on access levels, and account terminations.  • Ensured compliance on department policies in areas such as SOX, software licensing, company procedures, and IT policies.  • Coordinated vendor activities and liaises with internal customers to resolve problems on corporate ERP systems.  • Provided usable information to the business through well-designed data queries using SQL and tools such as Crystal Reports and Toad for Oracle.  • Performed root cause analysis on process failures. Education Master's in CyberSecurity Stevens Institute of Technology - Hoboken, NJ January 2016 to Present Bachelor's in Computer Science Montclair State University - Montclair, NJ January 2014 to December 2015 Associate in Computer Science Middlesex County College - Edison, NJ September 2005 to May 2013 Skills Node.JS (3 years), Java (4 years), Docker (3 years), Javascript (3 years), Software Development (4 years), Databases (4 years), Microservices (2 years), Agile (2 years), AWS (2 years), NoSQL (2 years), Git (4 years)