NET Software Developer - Contractor NET <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> - Contractor NET Software Developer - Contractor - York Risk Services Group • 15+ years cumulative software engineering experience in information systems using MS stack, C#, WebForms, WinForms, SQL, Entity Framework.  • Software & Systems: OOP, Visual Studio 2017, ASP.NET, MVC 5, Entity Framework 6, Bootstrap JS, WCF, LINQ, IIS 7.0, SQL 2014, Rhino Mocks, NUnit, MSTest, Windows Server 2012, TFS 2015, SOLID Patterns, Agile, LIS & EMR Systems, Insurance Claims Systems, Financial Services Work Experience NET Software Developer - Contractor York Risk Services Group - Dublin, OH January 2019 to May 2019 Workers Compensation Managed Care  • Migrated managed care processes and data from an external vendor system having older features and reduced support to a newer system having more current UX, UI, and support.  • Worked directly with product owner and business users to document requirements governing transition from older system to newer system.  • Followed Agile processes and SOLID principles in an environment of ASP.NET MVC5, T-SQL, Entity Framework, and JS. NET Software Developer - Contractor BMW Financial Services - Hilliard, OH May 2018 to December 2018 Global Automobile Financing  • Developed inbound and outbound C# .NET web services for lending platforms in a global market.  • Serialized, deserialized, and processed dealer, buyer, and creditor data to support financial transactions related to leased and loaned vehicles, including persistence to and queries of SQL XML stores.  • Worked with SME's and BA's to create XPath and LINQ analytic tools to align BMWFS with vendors.  • Worked with architects to improve Biztalk and custom C# .NET lending platform frameworks.  • Developed C# CI MS unit tests and integrations tests with Rhino Mocks to support QA E2E testing.  • Followed Agile Scrum\Kanban\Extreme methodologies at Ohio location together with global vendors. NET Software Developer - Contractor Grange Insurance - Columbus, OH May 2017 to May 2018 Commercial Lines Insurance  • Developed numerous MS software components to automate retrieval of XML-based insurance audits from vendors, process the same, and provide actionable information on a web-based MVC dashboard.  • Worked closely with business partners to extract expert knowledge related to calculating insurance premiums, to replace an inefficient manual process with one that was highly automated and very efficient, with turnaround time measured in hours instead of weeks.  • Developed Entity Framework database, MS file processor (console) application, WCF service, and ASP MVC 5 dashboard using TFS and Visual Studio 2015.  • Followed Agile Scrum methodologies to obtain requirements from business partners and deliver minimal viable product in two-week sprints with formal daily standups and TFS PBI management.  • Business was very pleased with the new automated process, and planned to automate other premium audit processes. NET Software Developer - Contractor Ohio Department of Health - Columbus, OH November 2016 to May 2017 Early Childhood Intervention System  • Created new, responsive web app for ODH "Help Me Grow" early childhood development program, replacing an older web app that became too difficult to maintain and improve.  • Primarily responsible for building central intake feature to obtain caregiver risk information.  • Created robust business logic with unit tests to automate selection of intervention agencies.  • Developed web app using ASP MVC 5, Bootstrap jQuery, Entity Framework, and Telerik UI controls.  • Followed Agile Scrum methodologies to obtain requirements from business partners and deliver minimal viable product in two-week sprints with formal daily standups and TFS PBI management.  • Mentored team members who had experience with other languages and were eager to learn C#, MVC, and Unit Testing fundamentals. NET Software Developer - Systems Analyst II Ohio School Employee Retirement System - Columbus, OH September 2015 to August 2016 Pension and Healthcare Systems  • Worked with business partners to convert legacy pension and healthcare management system from DB2 and CAGEN to newer technology based on MS Stack, including T-SQL, .NET 4.5, WCF, and C#.  • Developed applications to assist business partners in analysis of data during parallel testing.  • Worked with developers and architects from Sagitec Solutions to deploy new web application, portals, and database for members, employers, and vendors.  • Developed build templates to deploy applications to multiple targets.  • Mentored in-house developers in .NET, C#, TFS, SSIS, and Visual Studio 2013, to maintain and add features to new system (2018).  • Worked with DBA to transform DB2 database to MS SQL database via SSIS and VS2013. NET Software Developer United HealthGroup - Optum Insight - Columbus, OH May 2012 to September 2015 Healthcare Claims Analytics  • Developed WinForm and WebForm (ASPX\MVC) applications for use by auditors in identifying insurance claim overpayments and recovering monies for same.  • Developed windows services for processing of insurance claims.  • Developed windows services and SSIS packages for pulling large volumes of claim data from multi-source data mart (Oracle) to claim management backend (MS SQL).  • Improved data mining application performance by 40% by customizing WCF services.  • Developed a web-based ASP MVC4 application to simplify execution and management of routine data modifications.  • Worked with healthcare claims customers to improve claim overpayment recovery workflow. NET Software Developer - Contractor MEDRAD - Indianola, PA May 2011 to June 2012 CT and MR Contrast Injection Systems  • Developed radiology informatics application for CT contrast injection system.  • Designed/Developed C# WinForm application to integrate HIS patient data with injection application.  • Created WCF services for interoperability between informatics and injection applications.  • Created WCF client proxies for marshalling data between HIS and informatics application.  • Teamed with systems engineering, marketing, and test personnel to gather\write specifications and requirements, including software design document and software requirements specifications.  • Participated in daily Agile stand-ups and formal team-based code reviews.  • Assisted test team during SQA reviews, verification and validation. NET Software Developer - Contractor Affymetrix - Santa Clara, CA April 2010 to December 2010 Molecular Diagnostic Microarray Instrumentation  • Developed C# WinForm application for the Gene Chip System 3000 Dx2 - a molecular diagnostic system regulated by 21 CFR 820 and FDA 510(k) approved.  • Designed and developed interfaces to storage devices, including NAS and local RAID.  • Developed miRNA assay software module from user requirements and design inputs specified by marketing and application scientists.  • Teamed with product test team to resolve Clear Quest defects through nightly builds.  • Created\wrote software requirement specifications for new Dx2 features. NET Software Developer Path Logic - Sacramento, CA December 2008 to February 2010 Anatomic Pathology Laboratory Information System (LIS)  • Added functionality to and improved performance of the ASP.NET ADO.NET SQL-based LIS.  • Increase pathologist productivity by 50%.  • Designed and developed a C# windows service to generate PDF reports from the LIS DB, and deliver same to the desktops of remote referring clinicians, thus replacing expensive print and courier costs.  • Developed C# HL7 interfaces between the LIS, vendors, and customers.  • Designed\Developed C# interface between the LIS and 3rd party glass slide digitizing system.  • Tested and deployed numerous releases of the LIS, using SVN for version control.  • Trained laboratory manager and others on database administration and maintenance.  • Improved network by upgrading Internet services to provide more bandwidth to LIS and VPN tunnels used by vendors, customers, and partner laboratories.  • Developed a novel LIS reporting method: "Media-Enhanced Pathology Report". NET Software Developer - Contractor Silicon Kinetics - San Diego, CA July 2008 to October 2008 Bimolecular Interaction Analysis Instrumentation  • Developed C# WinForm client for micro fluidics-based molecular interaction instrument [server].  • Redesigned\refactored XML serialization protocols.  • Worked with local and remote laboratory scientists to develop a more responsive and appropriate user interface for proteomics researchers.  • Automated instrument alignment to replace tedious and inaccurate manual process.  • Implemented a Subversion version control system and also a disaster recovery plan. Personal Sabbatical - Carlsbad, CA October 2006 to June 2008 • Researched a novel rotating device together with small virtual group of scientists and engineers.  • Designed a microcontroller-based, Z-stack, WIA image capture system with a C# UI  • Studied MS stack technologies including, C# 3.0, application interoperability, Windows Image Acquisition, image processing, multithreading, embedded controllers, WinForms, LINQ, and WPF  • Participated in engineering and healthcare education projects. Senior Specialist Aperio Technologies Inc - Vista, CA November 2005 to September 2006 Digital Pathology Glass Slide Scanning Instrumentation  • Improved acceptance testing of complex glass slide scanners by developing VB & C# GUI applications for graphical and textual analysis of scanning process.  • Strengthened customer relations by utilizing prior experience as an Ohio State University customer to repair and upgrade customer base of 50+ robotic scanners.  • Utilized prior experience as a customer to help generate $500K in product sales.  • Received President's award and monetary bonus for expeditious support of manufacturing and testing facilities during critical phase of production. NET Software Developer & Network Administrator The Ohio State University Department of Pathology - Columbus, OH November 1996 to August 2005 Web Sites for Pathology Education, Research, and Service  • Received $120K in funding to engineer a Pathology Education Web Site (PEWS), comprised of several thousand MS Access database-driven VB ASPX pages, and which accommodated +450 graduate students annually and which won first place in a national pathology web site competition of +40 sites.  • Developed the informatics component of a novel Direct Access Testing (DAT) product, which required an interface to the Kroger pharmacy inventory, transmission of de-identified clinical HL7 data to a commercial web hosting service, and presentation of clinical lab results in a consumer-friendly, non-clinical manner. (www.OSULabtests.com)  • Engineered one of the first scanning bright field microscopes for web-based digital slide generation and delivery (a.k.a. Virtual Microscopy) by integrating off-the-shelf affordable components with a custom GUI for microscope scope control and image acquisition and processing. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer and Information Science The Ohio State University - Columbus, OH Skills .Net, C#, WCF, MVC