Staff Consultant performing the duties of Software Engineer (Onsite) Staff Consultant performing the duties of <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer (Onsite) Staff Consultant performing the duties of Software Engineer (Onsite) - Springboard Houston, TX • Having 10+ years of software development experience in analysis, design and development of web based and windows based applications using Microsoft Technologies (.NET)  • Strong knowledge of .NET Framework 4.7-3.x-2.0-1.x, Windows/Web technologies, C#, ASP.NET, LINQ, ADO.NET, Angular 4.0, WCF, XML Web Services, XAML, SOAP, SSRS, Infragistics .NET controls, Silverlight and WPF  • Proven track record of developing and implementing flexible solutions which support frequent UI and functionality changes.  • Extensive experience with Web based, Client-Server and N-Tier Architectures.  • Good understanding and experience working on AGILE Methodologies and involved in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  • Expertise in designing and developing strategic Test plans, Test Cases, and Test Reports for manual test.  • Proficient in different forms of testing like Manual testing, Unit testing, Integration testing, Regression testing, Performance testing and Non-functional testing.  • Experience in creating test data and end to end testing for POS devices/application.  • Automation experience in Selenium using C# and Java.  • Experience in writing and executing SQL queries on databases for backend testing  • Extensive experience of working on both web based and client server applications.  • Extensively automated Regression and Functional test suites by developing test cases and test suites using Selenium WebDriver.  • Worked extensively on performing Black Box Testing, Functional Testing, System Testing, Unit Testing, Integration Testing, Regression Testing, Smoke Testing and User Acceptance Testing.  • Expertise in testing Web Services using Postman and SoapUI tool.  • Have a good experience in Data Migration testing and Web Interface testing.  • Experience with defect tracking and analysis using different defect tracking tools such as TFS (Team Foundation Server) and Jira.  • Involved in creating test framework based on BDD, DDD, TDD using tools like Specflow, Cucumber, etc.  • Experience in designing Automation Framework using C# and Java.  • Experience on working XML and testing API using SOAPUI Pro and REST Assured.  • Experience in writing and executing SQL queries on databases for backend testing.  • Deploy and run the Continuous Integration builds as part of the Code deployment using Jenkins.  • Strong experience in functional and UAT testing using Selenium Webdriver on both platforms as well as cross platform web testing on all major web browsers (Safari, Google Chrome, Firefox and IE).  • Excellent team player with excellent interpersonal and communication skills.  • Demonstrated ability to self-motivate and be flexible within a fast-paced environment. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Staff Consultant performing the duties of Software Engineer (Onsite) Springboard December 2017 to Present Description: CalHFA uses the Housing Finance Agency Innovation Fund to help California families struggling to pay their mortgages. Primary objective for the Keep Your Home California programs include preserving homeownership for low and moderate income homeowners in California by reducing the number of delinquencies, preventing avoidable foreclosures and assisting in the stabilization of California communities.    Environment:.Net Framework 4.7-3.5, C#, ASP.Net, Web Forms, .Net Win Forms & Console Applications, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, Angular JS, Web API, Crystal Reports, SSRS, MS SQL Server 2012 - 2008    Third Party Integrations: Experian NetConnectSevice, CoreLogic connect2data, Zillow API    Responsibilities included:  • Involved since the initial stage of this big project which includes multiple internal web applications, Web Services, and supporting Console applications in Microsoft .Net Framework. The main responsibilities include Integration, Design, Coding and Implementation of complex web based applications using .Net Framework 4.7 - 3.5, Entity Framework, Angular JS, Javascript, HTML5, CSS3, JQuery, Crystal Reports, SSRS and SQL Server 2012.  • Involved in setting up the IIS server and deploying web applications and web services in IIS 8.0-6.0  • Scheduling / monitoring the supporting console applications in windows task scheduler.  • Involved in the database design phase for new change requests.  • Performed as a .Net developer and involved in creating Web Forms, User Controls, Project Libraries and Web APIs using C#, ASP.Net, Entity Framework.  • Performed as a SQL Developer and involved in creating tables, stored procedures, functions and triggers in SQL Server 2008 - 2012  • Involved in analyzing the application impacts while designing new changes, Creating Statement of Work and Estimation Plans.  • Coordinating with business analysts and testing team while implementing / maintaining changes.  • Performed the role of a lead support person to provide application support to the counselors at onsite.  • Creating / modifying the report files (rdl) in SQL Server Reporting Service and configuring the report subscriptions in SSRS.  • Use of JIRA for bug tracking and new change requests.  • Involved in migrating the project to Amazon Web Services (AWS) environment. Senior Developer JobDogg - Las Vegas, NV November 2016 to December 2017 Description: Jobdogg is a job portal which acts as a middle agent between candidates & Employers.  Candidates may register, search for jobs, and enter timesheet if hired. Employers can also register, lookup candidates and hire.    Environment: Visual Studio Code, Angular 4.0, CSS, HTML, Type Script, .Net Framework 4.6.1, RESTful API, C#, MVC, MS SQL Server 2012    Responsibilities included:  • Involved in design, coding & implementation of JobDogg web portal in Angular 4.0, .Net Framework 4.6.1  • Creating Modules, Components, Html templates and model class files in Type script to implement MVC architecture.  • Creating RESTful API methods in C#, .Net Framework 4.6.1 to be invoked from the UI and used Entity Framework.  • Creating tables, stored procedures and functions in SQL Server 2012. Team Lead Accutype October 2015 to November 2016 Description: SMB Medical Billing is podiatry medical billing services who are experts in all CMS regions and States. SMB's mission is to maximize revenue, reduce account receivables and workload for our podiatry clients. SMB is family owned and operated and believes in the values of trust, honesty and humility. EMR provides doctors for each patient and also includes data entry of patient information, clinical exams, and diagnostic and procedure codes. They wanted to offload the patient's data entry, billing, collections, EOB challenges, tracking the status of all account receivables, maintaining up to date patient information.    Responsibilities included:  • Communicating with the client and gather the requirement for the maintenance site.  • Analyzing the requirement, identifying the tasks involved and preparing the estimate.  • Distributing the tasks and coordinating with the development team.  • Performed code review, application unit testing.  • Integration and deployment of the application. Senior Developer Springboard September 2013 to October 2015 Description: New Mexico Attorney General has joined a multistate settlement with the nation's five largest banks. The settlement seeks to end problematic mortgage servicing practices and to help distressed homeowners. Substantial changes will be implemented in the servicing standards used by the named lenders. Implemented through the Attorney General's Office, monetary relief will be offered to New Mexico homeowners utilizing a number of different programs to assist homeowners and prevent foreclosure.  The New Mexico Attorney General Portal helps the attorneys to collect the homeowner information and forward the details to homeowner's counseling agency. The process works based on the New Mexico Homeowner Relief Program.    Responsibilities included:  • Develop and maintain the single page application using .Net Framework 3.5, SQL Server 2008  • Analyzing the client requirements, distributing the tasks and coordinating the offshore team  • Communicating with onsite team.  • Creating web forms and user controls using C#, ASP.Net  • Creating tables, stored procedures and functions in SQL Server 2008.  • Unit Testing and Implementation of Change Request.  • Integrating and deploying the application in Windows 2008 server using IIS 7.0 Senior Developer Springboard August 2012 to September 2013 Description: Springboard uses the Catalyst Portal to collect the homeowner information such as homeowner property details, mortgage details, and budget and asset details and provide them an effective financial counseling.  Homeowner Preservation Foundation (HPF) provides a list of post mod homeowners to springboard to reach out the clients and conduct four stages of counseling sessions in a specific time interval and submit the session details back to HPF. The homeowner details will be kept in an SFTP location in flat file format. The postmod application reads the flat file, parses the data and imports the homeowner details into catalyst portal. The four stages of counseling sessions for these homeowners will be done by the springboard counselors through the catalyst portal and the session details will be submitted back to HPF during the counsel sessions.    Responsibilities included:  • Analyzing the client requirements, distributing the tasks and coordinating the offshore team  • Communicating with onsite team  • Creating Web Forms, User Controls, and Web Services in C#, ASP.Net, Entity Framework using .Net Framework 3.5.  • Creating tables, stored procedures and functions in SQL Server 2008.  • Unit Testing and Implementation of Change Request.  • Integrating and deploying the application in Windows 2008 server using IIS 7.0 Senior Developer Springboard July 2010 to August 2012 Description: CalHFA uses the Housing Finance Agency Innovation Fund to help California families struggling to pay their mortgages. The Keep Your Home California programs are focused on assisting low and moderate income families stay in their homes, when possible, and leveraging additional contributions from lenders and mortgage servicers. Primary objective for the Keep Your Home California programs include preserving homeownership for low and moderate income homeowners in California by reducing the number of delinquencies, preventing avoidable foreclosures and assisting in the stabilization of California    Responsibilities included:  • Analyzing the client requirements, distributing the tasks and coordinating the offshore team  • Communicating with onsite team  • Creating web forms, user controls, pages, class files in C#, ASP.Net using .Net Framework 3.5.  • Converting vb.Net web forms and controls to C#.Net.  • Creating tables, stored procedures and functions in SQL Server 2005.  • Unit Testing and Implementation of Change Request.  • Integrating and deploying the application using IIS 6.0 Software Developer Kotak Mahindra Bank Ltd June 2009 to July 2010 Description: The project was to design and develop a web portal which will enable online funds transfer facility for Bank's NRI customers to The application will support different countries and multiple currencies.    Responsibilities included:  • Business Logic Implementation  • Created user controls and web forms in C#, ASP.Net using .Net Framework 2.0  • Created Stored procedures and functions in SQL Server 2005 for the new requirements  • Participated in internal testing and bug fixing as part of project quality assurance  • Involved in Unit Testing Software Developer Cross Domain May 2008 to June 2009 Description: Quote summary is a process in form of excels which is received as mail from the US team. Cross Domain Team has to prepare the best insurance quote for the asset client has requested.  The output will be created in the form of excel and will be sent to client. The process involved escalations, notification and alerts.    Responsibilities included:  • End-to-end System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) covering gathering & documenting business requirement, Functional Specification creation, Development, Unit testing, define and analyze business problems.  • Created user controls based on the functionalities  • Created Stored procedures and functions in database for the new requirements  • Participated in internal testing and bug fixing as part of project quality assurance  • Involved in Unit Testing. Software Developer Quadra Software Solutions April 2007 to May 2008 Description: Quadra ERP automates all the process involved in a construction and realty industry. Thoughtfully created to take care of every aspect of construction industry, Quadra has evolved from over two decades of in-depth domain expertise. A fusion of cutting edge technology and rich domain experience, Quadra gives enterprises the power to control operations with effective management, better coordination, immense cost saving and optimized resource management. There are different modules in the application namely Enquiry Management, Client Management, After Sales services, Lease and Rental, Project Maintenance, Marketing Financials, Tender Bid Management, Estimation, Sub Contractors Management, Labor Management, Purchase Management, Inventory Management, Fixed Asset Management, Plant and Machinery, Pre-construction and Land Management.    Responsibilities included:  • End-to-end System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) covering gathering & documenting business requirement, Functional Specification creation, Development, Unit testing, define and analyze business problems.  • Created user controls based on the functionalities  • Created Stored procedures and functions in database for the new requirements  • Participated in internal testing and bug fixing as part of project quality assurance Education Bachelor's Skills MS SQL SERVER, MS SQL SERVER 2000, SQL SERVER, SQL SERVER 2000, MYSQL Additional Information TECHNICAL SUMMARY  • C#, ASP.NET, XAML, jQuery, JSON, JavaScript, Angular 4.0, Angular JS, HTML5, CSS, XML/XSLT, Silverlight, WPF, AJAX  • Microsoft .NET Framework 4.7-3.x-2.0-1.x, Entity Framework, LINQ, SOAP Web services, WCF, RESTful API  • MS SQL Server 2000-2012, MySQL  • Visual Studio.NET 2017-2003, Microsoft Team Foundation Server 2012-2008, Tortoise SVN, Visual Source Safe 2005/6.0, SQL Server Management Studio, SSRS, Crystal Reports 13.0-9.0, Infragistics, Microsoft Expression Blend, Dreamweaver  • IIS 8.0-6, Active Directory