School / Unemployed School / Unemployed School / Unemployed - Unemployed Scottsdale, AZ Highly skilled software development professional, bringing more than 10 years in the software design, development, integration and debugging. Proficient knowledge of C/C++, HTML, CSS and JavaScript programming languages and excels at debugging. Work Experience School / Unemployed Unemployed October 2012 to Present • Attended University of Phoenix to complete my Bachelor degree in Information Systems with an emphasis on Web Development.  • Attended University of Phoenix to complete my Master's degree in Information Systems with an emphasis on Cyber Security.  • Contract work with family and friends to develop their personal Websites using HTML, JavaScript, CSS and Java applets. Caregiver Self-Employed - Murray, UT May 2003 to October 2012 • My late grandfather had Parkinson's disease. I lived with him and acted as his caregiver. Because I could not leave him alone, I worked out of his home as a website consultant.  • Primary client was University of Phoenix. I assisted with their Intranets for Mountain Plains Region and Southwest Regions, which were based on SharePoint 2007. I build JavaScript objects for them and showed them how to optimize their websites by applying CSS. Software Engineer Prophet Systems, Inc - Ogallala, NE August 2001 to April 2003 • Built, tested and deployed scalable, highly available and modular software products  • Modified existing software to correct errors, adapt to new hardware and improve performance  • Designed intuitive graphical user interfaces using knowledge of serial communications and database design  • Debugged and modified software components  • Developed code fixes and enhancements for inclusion in future code releases and patches Software Developer Message Media - Boulder, CO September 2000 to April 2001 Implemented innovative systems for data collection, storage and management of customer orders and sent mass e-mails to customer's clients. Contract Software / Web Developer Microsoft - Redmond, WA July 1997 to October 1999 • Built, tested and deployed scalable, highly available and modular software products  • Streamlined deployment process by developing continuous integration tools  • Modified existing software to correct errors, adapt to new hardware and improve performance Software Programmer Clark Development - Murray, UT August 1992 to April 1997 Built, tested and deployed scalable, highly available and modular software product for a telephone Bulletin Board Systems that was popular in the early to mid 1990s. Education Master's in Computer Science University of Phoenix-Online Campus - Phoenix, AZ June 2017 to May 2019 Bachelor's in Computer Science University of Phoenix-Online Campus - Phoenix, AZ February 2013 to April 2017 Skills .NET (2 years), API (3 years), C# (2 years), C++, HTML (10+ years), Java (1 year), CSS (10+ years), Javascript (10+ years), JQuery (2 years), SQL (2 years), Assembly (32-bit & 64-bit) (5 years), Problem Solving Skills (8 years), Performance Improvement & Scalability (5 years) Links https://www.facebook.com/Relvinian1968 https://www.linkedin.com/in/perry-morris-77043867/ https://twitter.com/smtech68 Assessments Technical Support — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/2conxjgqb-w9bus7 Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information After reviewing my resume, I hope you will agree that I am the type of competent and competitive candidate you are looking for. I look forward to elaborating on how my specific skills and abilities will benefit your organization