Sr. Informatica/ETL Developer Sr. Informatica/ETL <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Informatica/ETL Developer - Blue Shield of California Monterey Park, CA Work Experience Sr. Informatica/ETL Developer Blue Shield of California - Monterey Park, CA July 2018 to Present • Review the encounter processes, analyze data, design and regulatory agencies business requirements to have a good understanding of Blue Shield applications.  • Participates in meetings with Application Functional managers to work in tandem with them and develop the functional/Technical specification documents.  • Ability to understand various encounter processes and HIPAA standard transaction sets like 837 and NCPDP.  • Created modified and enhanced the new and existed SSIS packages to handle various data validations and extraction process.  • Extract Transform Load (ETL) development Using SQL server 2008, SQL 2008 Integration Services (SSIS).  • Creating reports using SQL Reporting Services (SSRS) for customized and ad-hoc Queries.  • Involved in designing, developing, debugging and testing of reports in SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS).  • Extensive experience in writing UNIX shell scripts and automation of the ETL processes using UNIX shell scripting.  • Converted the PL/SQL procedures to Informatica mappings and at the same time created procedures in the database level for optimum performance of the mappings.  • Design develop and test ETL mappings, mapplets, Workflows, worklets using Informatica PowerCenter 10.x  • Worked with pre and post sessions and extracted from transaction system into staging area.  • Proficient in the integration of various data sources with multiple relational databases like Oracle, SQL Server, and flat files into staging area, Data Warehouse and Data Mart.  • Participate in daily meetings in reviewing the daily status reports of the project development.  • Tracks, reviews, and analyzes daily defect checklists.  • Design test plan and test cases for QA/UAT to ensure all business requirements delivered accurately and timely.  • Create and edit stored procedures and functions to address new business requirements.  • Utilized tools to monitor the code quality and developed automated sql scripts to reduce the application bugs and job scheduler to efficiently manage the data and improve the efficiency of the work for others.  • Ability to prioritize and work in a fast-paced environment with frequently changing work demands.    Environment: Oracle 11g, PL/SQL, TOAD 12.0, Winscp, Putty, Informatica Power center 10.1, Microsoft Visual Studio 2013 12.0, MS SQL Server 2008, SSIS, SSRS, MS Office 2010, EDI Notepad, Unix. Software Developer L.A. Care Health Plan - Los Angeles, CA March 2016 to June 2018 • Extensively worked on the inbound and outbound of 837 and NCPDP files for claims and pharmacy data. Loading validating and extracting data/files from various vendors.  • Developed the recent changes for the EDIFECS ST tool to the current inbound processes (837 and NCPDP) and modified the existing shell scripts to handle all the business requirements.  • Worked on providing the hbex information to Milliman such as Member enrollments from QNXT, Claims and Pharmacy data from encounters using Informatica power center tool.  • Worked on enhancement/changes for submitting the Enrollment, Medical and pharma files to Truven/Altegra.  • Hands-on experience with various encounter processes and with HIPAA standard transaction sets like 837I/P/D and NCPDP.  • Developed mappings/reusable objects/transformations/mapplets by using mapping designer, transformation developer and mapplet designer in informatica power center. Extensively worked with various transformations like Filter, Sorter, Router, Joiner, Lookup, Sequence Generator, Mapplet transformations.  • Created pre etl scripts to validate the files and file format which we receive from the source system.  • Worked with Connected look up and unconnected lookup and configured the same for implementing complex logic.  • Involved in designing, developing, debugging and testing of reports in SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS).  • Create and edit stored procedures and functions to address new business requirements.  • Extensively used SQL Loader for loading data into staging tables from various data sources  • Used Bulk Collections for better performance.  • Created scripts to create new tables, views, queries for new enhancement in the application using TOAD.    Environment: Linux, Oracle 12cR1, TOAD 12.5.1.1, Microsoft Visual Studio 2013 12.0, MS Project Server 2013, Informatica Power Center 9.1.0, Oracle 11g, SQL Server 2008, SSRS, Unix Informatica Developer Indian Eagle LLC - Austin, TX October 2015 to February 2016 • Extensively worked on Informatica Power Center tools - Source Analyzer, Warehouse Designer, Mapping Designer, Mapplets Designer, Transformation Developer and Workflow Manager to extract the data from Oracle, SQL Server and load into Oracle data base.  • Various Mappings were developed using Designer that involved different transformations like Update Strategy transformation, Lookup transformation, Aggregator transformation, and Stored Procedure transformation, Expression Transformation.  • Configured OBIEE Metadata Objects including repository, variables, interactive dashboards, and reports.  • Integrated BI Publisher with OBIEE to build reports in word, excel and doc format.  • Customized interactive dashboards in OBIEE using drill down, guided navigation, prompts, filters, and variables.  • Created reusable transformation based on the business rules to easy the development process and responsible for document the changes.  • Used SQL server to create stored procedures.  • Designed workflows based for incremental/delta loading.  • Used Debugger to test the data flow and fix the mappings.  • Preparation of Test Data/Unit Testing /Integrated testing and generated various test cases  • Developed test cases for system integration testing  • Created functional and technical mapping specifications and documentation  • Supported projects and requests from the business relating to the management of applicable applications. This includes analysis, gathering of business requirements, and creation of functional and technical specs, testing, training, escalation and follow-up.  • Assist the business in understanding Data management and Modeling concepts and capabilities.    Environment: Informatica Power Center 9.1.0, Oracle 11g, OBIEE 11g, SQL Server 2008, Unix. Sr. PL/SQL Developer L.A. Care Health Plan - Los Angeles, CA October 2014 to September 2015 • Extensively used SQL Loader for loading data into staging tables from various data sources  • Used Bulk Collections for better performance.  • Developed mappings and workflows by reading the data from one database and loading the data to another database.  • Developed generic mappings and workflows for loading different types of client data by passing the parameters.  • Created indexes on the tables for faster retrieval of the data to enhance database performance.  • Created PL/SQL scripts to extract the data from the operational database into simple flat text files using UTL_FILE package.  • Scheduled copy over jobs and regularly checking the status of critical jobs by email alerts.  • Test case/data preparation, execution and verification of the test results.  • Worked with day-to-day issues that are submitted in the form of tickets.  • Involved in Data loading and Extracting functions using SQL*Loader.  • Responsible for development and testing of conversion programs for importing data into Oracle database utilizing PL/SQL, SQL*Loader and UNIX shell scripts, to load data from flat files to Oracle database.  • Worked mostly on the data conversion part to be uploaded into corporate reports using Oracle PL/SQL.  • Analyzed SQL statements reorganize database objects and design indexes to improve response of queries.  • Implemented PL/SQL scripts using Ref cursors in order to load data dynamically and implemented incremental loading of the data.    Environment: Oracle 11gR2, TOAD 10.0, Unix, SQL* Loader, PL/SQL Developer OBIEE Developer Wellington Management - Marlborough, MA October 2013 to September 2014 • Extensively worked with various transformations like Filter, Sorter, Router, Joiner, Lookup, Sequence Generator, Mapplet transformations  • Worked with Connected look up and unconnected lookup and configured the same for implementing complex logic.  • Worked extensively in performance tuning the mapping and session as the data volume is high. Created multiple sessions and split the data among them because of the DB2 sort space limitation.  • Customized interactive dashboards in OBIEE using drill down, guided navigation, prompts, filters, and variables.  • Created process for both historical and daily data load.  • Worked on creating the logical and physical data models according to the requirements.  • Developed mappings and workflows by reading the data from one database and loading the data to another database.  • Developed generic mappings and workflows for loading different types of client data by passing the parameters.  • Developed multiple business intelligence reports using OBIEE.    Environment: Informatica Power Center 9.1.0, Oracle 11g, OBIEE 11g, SQL, UNIX, Windows. Software Developer/Analyst, Technical Fidelity Investments - Bengaluru, Karnataka April 2006 to October 2013 • Gathered various Business Requirements from the client and translated the Service requests (SR) into technical design and specification.  • Prepared technical specifications for the development of Informatica (ETL) mappings to load data into various target tables and defining ETL standards.  • Created ETL mapping documents for every mapping and Data Migration document for smooth transfer of project from development to testing environment and then to production environment.  • Created mappings using different transformations like Source Qualifier, Joiner, Aggregator, Expression, Filter, Router, Lookup, Update Strategy, and Sequence Generator etc. to extract data from SQL server and load into Oracle database.  • Developed mapplets and worklets for reusability.  • Involved in weekly error tracking and correction process using Informatica.  • Involved in Performance tuning in Mappings and Sessions by identifying the bottlenecks and Implemented effective transformation Logic.  • Developed complex SQL queries and written various dynamic SQL's throughout the projects for adhoc report generation.  • Developed PL/SQL Procedures, Functions and Packages and used SQL loader to load data into the database.  • Developed Shell scripts and schedule data loading jobs as overnight job in cron utility.  • Handled errors using Exception Handling extensively for the ease of debugging and displaying the error messages in the application.  • Developing Fast Formulas which will internally call the Stored Procedures and modifying them for better performance.  • Supporting the implementation and configuration issues by tracing the rules and fixing them.  • Supported the implementation and configurations issues relating to tech spec loader tool.  • Responsible for requirement analysis and preparation of high level design document.  • Supported the implementation and configuration issues related to Eligibility, Electability, Life events, Fast Formulas, Rates and configuration of rates, Premiums etc.  • Configured Benefit structure - New Plan Types, Plans, Options, Life Events, Eligibility Profiles, Rates and VAPROs.  • Creating standard carrier requirement document as per the ANSI 834 standards and also Fidelity standard 600 byte.  • Test and validate that all data loads properly and execute manual procedures like running any scripts to validate data.  • Developed and configured both standard and client specific fast formulas as per the requirements  • Review the fast formulas developed and responsible till they migrate to production.  • Responsible to support any productions issues on a weekly basis.    Environment: Oracle Applications 11i & R12, Informatica Power Center 9.1.0, Oracle 11g, OBIEE 11g, SQL, UNIX, Windows. Technical Consultant Cybrid Software - Hyderabad, Telangana October 2002 to April 2006 • Report to view the pending item transaction with respect to the Inventory Organization.  • PO form customization to capture relevant supplier item number and stock-keeping unit.  • PO receipts conversion.  • Item attachment conversion.  • Customization of PO form to check whether the supplier is in the defaulters list or not  • Report summarizing the accruals by PO, by buyer.  • Development of forms and reports.  • Developing pl/sql packages, procedures and functions.    Environment: Oracle Applications 11i, PL/SQL, Forms & Reports 6i Education Bachelor's Skills DATABASE, DATABASE DESIGN, MAPPING, SQL SERVER, ORACLE, ETL