Senior Software Developer Senior <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Software Developer - PG&E Geosciences San Ramon, CA ? Full Stack Senior Software Engineer  ? My career to date has been focused on developing specific software solutions for business users in companies ranging from Insurance Claims, Mortgage Point-of-Sale, Financial Services, Telecommunications, Broadband, Public Utilities, Education and Mining/Exploration.  ? My strong written and verbal communication skills are complemented by excellent systems knowledge and programming skills which I have used through the complete software development life-cycle.  ? My professional experience has been in the World Wide Web, PCs, LANs, client/server and mainframes with extensive cross platform development.  ? As an independent consultant, I am familiar with many business functions, including payroll, accounts payable/receivable and billing. Work Experience Senior Software Developer PG&E Pacific Energy Center - San Francisco, CA 2006 to Present Designed, developed and tested software written in C#, Visual Basic and SQL Server.    Application is a windows c# application that can import data and then analyze and produce graphs and reports. I developed and implemented data import routines, added a help mechanism and many other enhancements. Also added some analysis modules related to HVAC Economizers. Application was Visual Basic and re-written in c#. Software Developer eQuest - San Ramon, CA March 2019 to August 2019 Provided software development support of existing C# applications and made a few enhancements to the processes. Applications were Azure, SQL Server, MVC, Web API, and console apps.  Senior Software Developer PG&E Geosciences - San Francisco, CA 2010 to February 2019 Designed, developed and tested software written in C# and SQL Server.    Application was in two distinct parts; MVC/Web and Windows Services. I enhanced both. Highlight includes swapping out USGS RSS feed download to newer GeoJSON download. Enhanced text email notifications to be responsive html. Optimized and refactored code to be object oriented and reusable. Many other enhancements. Worked on html front end with css and backend SQL Server. Worked on importing vast quantities of asset data used by the process. Software Engineer CCI - Rancho Santa Margarita, CA 2013 to 2016 Designed, developed and tested software written in C#, SQL Server.    Application was a WPF/SQL Server application that created valve estimates based on allowable valve configurations. Highlights included creating PDF Valve Specifications and importing legacy specifications into the newer application plus many other enhancements. Software Developer Flashstream - San Ramon, CA 2009 to 2011 Designed, developed and tested multi tier software written in C# and SQL Server. Software Engineer Event By Wire - San Ramon, CA 2006 to 2007 Designed, developed, tested and implemented software written in ASP.Net, C#, SQL Server and Html. Software Engineer ADP - San Ramon, CA 2004 to 2006 Designed, developed, tested and implemented software written in ASP.Net, C#, Visual Basic, SQL Server, Html, VBScript. Software Developer Loansoft - Berkeley, CA 2003 to 2004 Designed, developed, tested and implemented software written in VB.Net, ASP.Net, Visual Basic, SQL Server, Html, VBScript. Senior Software Engineer MegaPath Networks - Pleasanton, CA 2001 to 2003 Gathered requirements, designed, developed, tested and implemented software written in Visual Basic/ASP/SQL Server. Programming Engineer PG&E Pacific Energy Center - San Francisco, CA 2000 to 2001 Co-architect on object model for middle tier database access written in Visual Basic/Microsoft Access. Programming Engineer ZapMe - San Ramon, CA 2000 to 2000 Coded, debugged and tested large scale web based email program written in Visual Basic/ASP/HTML/JavaScript/SQL Server. Programming Engineer Red Eye Digital Media - San Francisco, CA 1999 to 2000 Designed, developed and supported various web based applications written in ASP/Visual Basic/SQL Server. Analyst/Programmer BHP - San Francisco, CA 1997 to 1999 Gathered requirements, designed, developed, tested, deployed various systems written in Visual Basic/ASP/SQL Server/Access. Also supported mainframe systems written in Cobol/DB2/Rexx. Specialist - Business Process Management Andersen Consulting - San Francisco, CA 1995 to 1997 Developed, enhanced, tested, deployed mainframe based software configuration management (SCM) tool. Also developed, enhanced and tested PC (Visual Basic APP) SCM tool which interfaced with mainframe SCM system. Senior Analyst/Programmer Wells Fargo Bank - San Francisco, CA 1993 to 1995 Supported mainframe based 401(k) software written in COBOL/VSAM/CICS. Lead project to outsource 401(k) statement printing. Analyst Programmer Data Sciences Limited 1988 to 1993 England. Gather requirements, designed, developed software through software development life-cycle. Software written in COBOLII/CICS/Ideal/Datacom DB. Education Bachelor's in Computer Studies Glasgow College of Technology - Glasgow, Scotland Skills C#, .NET, SQL Server, ASP.NET/MVC, ASP, Git, Javascript, MYSQL Additional Information Volunteer Work    2015-present - Super Bowl Quiz Application. Designed, developed and tested a web based quiz application for a Super Bowl quiz. Replaced paper quiz with 20 questions and multiple choice answers with web based entry submission, quiz grading and leader board. Application is a C#//MVC/IIS/ SQL Server application optimized for mobile devices and uses jquery/css and html.    January 2014 – January 2017 - Board Member, Pleasanton RAGE Girls Soccer Club. Oversaw transition from legacy systems to Google for Nonprofits which included email, calendar and docs. Also, I provided web site guidance and oversight.