Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> DW/Architect/Support/ Developer Minneapolis, MN • 12 years of extensive experience in high scalability datawarehouse environments.  • Diverse and intense analysis/programming for Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of ETL processes using agile and waterfall methodologies.  • Scoped and designed models to implement MDM architecture for optimum scalability as well as to adhere to Data Quality guidelines.  • Analyzed business requirements, developed logical and physical data models by identifying facts and dimensions to represent star schema data marts.  • Reviewed, maintained and documented ETL process specifications to produce deliverables such as data profiling, links and stages, ETL flows.  • Collaborated with business intelligence teams to ensure seamless operations for data retrieval of OLAP systems.  • Assisted the business stakeholders in the process of go/no-go decisions for key implementations.  • Developed and maintained applications for data extraction, integration and transformation from flat files or legacy systems for loading into relevant tables in OLTP/OLAP databases.  • Created, debugged and executed SQL queries to perform source-to-target data audit for accuracy and completeness.  • Worked on .NET, Java and XML technologies.  • Worked extensively on stored procedures, triggers, functions, indexes and constraints for data transformation.  • Conducted troubleshooting and resolved system, process performance and data issues.  • Proficient in Kimball and Inmon methodologies.  • Co-ordinated and developed job scheduling unix shell scripts for final production implementation.  • Effectively worked in highly demanding situations and have been a motivator to the entire team. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Developer Anonymous Confidential - Minneapolis, MN August 2015 to Present Working in the field of database, scripts development. Co-ordinating and working on IAAS and PAAS cloud enhancements. DW Analyst/Architect/Support United HealthCare May 2013 to March 2014 Environment: Teradata 14, Oracle 11g, DataStage 8.6, Erwin 7, Data Warehousing  • Reviewed business and technical specifications to implement ETL processes in existing data warehouse.  • Worked with business and QA teams to implement customer solutions requiring addition of new data to the data warehouse.  • Analyzed existing ETL processes to develop a data model for documenting existing relationships.  • Analyzed system requirements to create high level design for data flow.  • Reviewed multiple sources of data flow into the data warehouse.  • Reviewed existing data quality measures to enhance the timeliness and validity of the entire ETL process.  • Documented and updated the processes with the data warehouse for current and future reference  • Created test scripts and reviewed team test plans for functional, performance and regression testing. Developer ATT November 2012 to April 2013 Environment: Teradata 13, Oracle 11g, Informatica 8.6, Erwin 7, SSAS, SSIS, Data Warehousing  • Analyzed existing datawarehouse tables to develop a data model for documenting existing relationships.  • Analyzed system requirements to create high level design for data flow.  • Designed data flow diagrams to track data transfer from production database to datawarehouse.  • Created new relational models for storing marketing data.  • Developed logical table models with different normalized forms per system requirement to cater to data warehousing as well as business intelligence needs as the same time.  • Developed data flow designs to allow ETL process accurately from end to end in new or existing target tables.  • Added data to data warehouse through development of source to target maps and stages and transformation rules and processes.  • Developed dimensional table models with a view to achieve faster data retrieval. Software Analyst/Data Modeler/ Developer Mayo Clinic July 2010 to August 2012 Environment: Sybase 15.0, Solaris 9.0, DB2, Informatica 8.6, Erwin 7, Data Warehousing, ASP.NET, XML  • Analyzed and developed enhancements to an in-house Supply Information Management System, that helped the surgical staff in tracking the usage of items(surgical items, equipment, implants)  • Collect data for expense reporting, supply ordering, patient billing, implant tracking and several reports for use by physicians, nurses and other staff.  • Designed data flow model to track data transfer from production to reporting database.  • Created new relational and dimensional schema for storing archival data.  • Designed and created a process to archive, replicate and delete OLTP data onto OLAP server as per requirements using triggers, stored procedures and proxy tables.  • Designed schemas for data warehouses to capture SCDs and CDCs correctly.  • Worked with DBA and application administrator to identify hardware and database bottlenecks and work them out for better performance and scalability.  • Created new as well as modified existing stored procedures, triggers for optimal performance.  • Developed logical table models with different normalized forms per system requirement to cater to data warehousing as well as business intelligence needs as the same time.  • Fine-tuned SQL statements using query plans; created temporary tables for inter-processing storage.  • Created unix shell scripts to call and execute stored procedures. Created cron jobs for some overnight job schedules.  • Monitored performance reports from database and ETL tools server log to further consider process enhancements and tunings. Software Analyst/Data Modeler/ Developer Federal Home Loan Bank October 2006 to June 2010 Environment: Oracle 10gR2, Teradata 13, Unix shell scripts, OBIEE, Erwin 7.0  • Analyzed and developed enhancements to an in-house mortgage and securities application for calculating the borrowing capacity of member banks against pledged collateral and securities.  • Created logical and physical data models using Erwin.  • Prepared technical specification documents for data warehousing jobs.  • Based on market dynamics and user needs, modified the application business logic to map and include new data fields and load data from flat files onto the database.  • Made structural changes to database objects, created roles, tables, partitions for large tables, materialized views, etc.  • Defined granularity, aggregation and partition required at target database.  • Created unix shell scripts to call and execute SQL loader scripts. Created cron jobs for some overnight job schedules.  • Loaded data from flat files, Sybase and legacy databases to Oracle.  • Created roles with specific grants only for some users to allow them to complete the ETL process.  • Designed facts and dimensions to implement SCDs and CDCs.  • Monitored performance reports from database and ETL tools server log to further consider process enhancements and tunings.  • Created scripts and verified the accuracy of the transformation. Used query analyzer to obtain the optimum performance. Used round robin partitioning logic involving large datasets.  • Extensively involved in the software development life cycle (SDLC).  • Worked on developing Physical, Business and Presentation layers of metadata repository for reporting dashboards using OBIEE.  • Implemented modifications after successful User Acceptance Testing (UAT). Education Master's Skills C# (1 year), Java (Less than 1 year), Javascript (Less than 1 year), Python (Less than 1 year), Oracle 10G (3 years), Db2 (4 years), Informatica (2 years), C (3 years), ITIL (2 years), Cloud Computing (Less than 1 year), MYSQL Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information SKILLS    Database Teradata 14, Oracle 10gR2, Sybase 15.x, MS SQL Server 2008, DB2  PL/SQL, T-SQL, (Stored Procedures and Triggers)  TOAD, DB Artisan, SQL Nav 4.0,RSql, Erwin7.0, PowerDesigner12.5  Data Warehouse Informatica 8.6, Datastage 8.6, Quality Stage, OBIEE, Business Objects/Crystal Reports  Misc Mercury Quality Center, Unix, Tivoli Scheduler, TFS, .NET, XML