Sr. Software Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Software Developer Westminster, CO IT leader and Application Software Developer with deep expertise in Java analytical and highly technical hands-on  solutions, with managing large scale technical issues. Known for on time software delivery and providing better solution.  Passionate about leveraging technical skills to drive quality software development and create bottom line success for the  organization. My expertise is in automation, systems integration, middleware and backend as well as frontend  development. Work Experience Sr. Software Developer Visa April 2019 to July 2019 • Developed interfaces to Mongo DB.  • Developed RESTful service APIs.  • Developed unit tests with 85% coverage  Technical: IntelliJ, Java 1.8, MVN, Spring boot, Lombok, GIT, Rest, MongoDB, Jiira, Mockito, Swagger UI, Jira, Agile(Scrum) Sr. Software Developer Comcast December 2017 to December 2018 • Developed interfaces to Mongo DB and Kafka Topics.  • Developed SAOP, RESTful service clients and CXF web-client for billing applications.  • Developed REST Services clients using Cloud based micro services. Deployed and configured the applications in Cloud Foundry.  • Developed, maintained and executed integration tests and automated unit tests for all of above programs.  • Created database scripts to create, delete tables, indexes, grant authorization and validate data  Technical: Eclipse, Java 1.8, MVN, Spring boot, Streamsets, GIT, GOCD, CXF Web client, Rest, SOAP, Cloud Foundry, OAuth2, Kafka, MongoDB, Oracle database. Rally, Jiira Lead Software Developer Travelport May 2012 to April 2017 • Managed a project and mentored developers to create a Java application using database development.  • As a backend developer, processed data for MQ series, databases, web services and front end responses.  • Awarded for developing a solution to create Logging tool for support team to provide direct support to more  than15,000 international clients. First time, it provided ability to track real time data for customers.  • As a team lead, developed designs, web services and programs for 3-4 applications in parallel.  • Improved existing products by fast tracked releases. Established, improved and documented various processes.  Created repositories and documentations.  • Created application installers using InstallShield X. Also, added full user authentication in the application.  • My team won runner up award for "Hack Day" in 2013.  Technical: Eclipse, Java, RAD 8.5.1 MQSeries, MQ Visual Edit, Java, MS SQL and DB2 Databases, CVS, Apache  Subversion (SVN), soapUI, Altova XML Spy, InstallShield X, HBase, HBaseClient, MS Outlook, MS Lync (Skype). Sr. Software Developer IBM Corporation August 2009 to March 2012 IBM Systems Director software offers a unified systems management platform. It provides tools for discovery, inventory, status, configuration, system health, resource monitoring, system updates, event notification etc. As a backend developer,  I-  • Wrote the code for the IBM Systems Director development and test automation,  • Tested switches, adapters, IPV6, vLan, protocol configuration, Chassis, Hypervisors etc.,  • Liaised with some legal issues and maintained relationship with 3 vendors to integrate their code into IBM  Software.  Technical: RAD V7.5.4, Rational Team Concert, Java, Cloud instances, RHEL, Linux, Java, Spring, Junit, Selenium, Ant, Maven, HMC, Switches, Adapters, Agile Development, Scrum IBM Corporation 1996 to 2012 Sr. Software Engineer IBM Corporation July 2008 to July 2009 Developed an application to improve online support for user's systems to prevent and/or to quickly resolve the problem.  • Architected and developed portlet for IBM Electronic Data Upload (EDUpload) Application. The EDUpload  application provides Dynamic System Analysis (DSA) data in a file so that back-end tools can use it.  • Achieved accessibility compliance: Industry Web Standard, Web Accessibility (WCAG 2.0) and (Section 508).  Assisted in disaster recovery of systems, databases and application for various external customers. Software Engineer IBM Corporation March 2006 to September 2007 Designed and developed a complex audit event processing application using re-usable module in WebSphere  Message Broker (WMB) Toolkit with alerts and notifications on flagged data. Used rules based on financial data to create reports and notification for audit. The automation of this complex process helped the auditors tenfold.  • Administered WMB on the Linux server and used WebSphere MQ Explorer for MQ administration. Software Developer IBM Corporation August 2004 to March 2006 Designed and developed the IBM middle-ware application to integrate six systems and to automate manual work  to eliminate human errors in business processes and save manual work.  • Designed and developed an application in RAD, creating round CD labels in PDF format files in Java with text, images and barcode by using a XSLT and XML template. Also, coded for FTP, FTP over SSH, log4j, velocity,  Jtest, Formatting Object Processor (FOP) and IBM Java mail service, DB2 and MQSeries.  • Wrote SQL, stored procedures, baseline audit checklist, coding guidelines, MQ specifications etc. for the project.  • Enhanced a Java tool to read System Management Facility (SMF) records describing J2EE application status on the z/OS platform to analyze the J2EE performance. Developed Human Resource application for resumes. Software Engineer IBM Corporation September 2003 to July 2004 • Maintained updates, configuration and user administration for Websphere Studio Application Developer for an application and ClearQuest. Did code builds/drops, check-in, check-out, triggers and branching and labeling.  • Wrote java code for an application to analyze the logs. Also, handled defect management task. Software Developer IBM Corporation November 1999 to August 2003 To automate days' worth of manual work, designed and developed a tool in ABAP to retrieve data from a legacy  system using AccessBuilder, Java Remote Function Calls (RFC) and remote Java application.  • Presented and authored training for application integration using SAP, Java RFC with AccessBuilder.  • Managed test team as a team leader. Authored maintenance and troubleshooting procedures.  • Wrote programs to integrate Lotus Notes, SAP & the legacy DB2 data for Material Management(MM). Wrote  interactive MM reports, user exits, Intermediate Document (IDoc) & Batch Data Communication (BDC) in ABAP.  • Maintained Information Development Content Information Acquisition application in Lotus Notes. Software Engineer IBM Corporation August 1998 to November 1999 • Developed tools to automate many administrative tasks with alerts which replaced one full time head count.  • Installed and maintained Lotus Notes servers and address books for about 50 servers. Application Programmer IBM Corporation March 1996 to June 1998 Developed Remote Access Server application to enable Telecommuters to access the IBM databases in a secure  fashion. Designed schema for the relational database. Enhanced Customer Log-on Administration System. Education Bachelor of Science in Biology in VMV Collage Amaravati Nagpur University - Nagpur, Maharashtra Master of Science in Management Information System in MIS University of Colorado at Denver - Denver, CO Skills Eclipse, J2ee, Java, Spring, jquery, Db2, Jdbc, Oracle, Sql, Sybase, Hbase, Kafka, Hadoop, Hadoop, Hbase, Html, Javascript, Subversion, Svn, Xml Additional Information Technical Expertise  Languages Java, C, HBase for Big Data, XML, XSLT, JavaScript, JQuery, HTML, ABAP, Lotus Script,  ESQL  Frameworks J2EE, JUnit, Mockito, JQuery, DOJO, JDBC, MQSeries  Databases Mongo DB, Kafka, StreamSets, Hadoop/HBase, DB2, MS SQL, Sybase, Oracle, Lotus Notes,  DbVisualizer.  Technologies Micro Services, CloudFoundry, Agile Development, Scrum, GITHub, GOCD, Mockito, Rational  Team Concert, Eclipse, Rational Application Developer (RAD), Rational ClearCase, Websphere  Message Broker Toolkit, Spring Boot, FeignClient, Ant, Maven, Selenium, Lotus Notes,  Hypervisor, HMC, AMM, Cloud, Switches (Cisco, Brocade etc.), Webking, Concurrent Version  System (CVS), Subversion repository (SVN), Project management, Portlet, Altova XML Spy,  MQ Visual Edit, Configuration Management and Version Control (CMVC).  Operating Systems Unix, AIX, Linux, Windows 95 to10, RHEL, zLinux, MS-DOS, VM, MVS.