Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer - Johnson Controls Lancaster, PA I am a Software Developer with 20-plus years of experience. I am currently developing with C# and .net technologies. I enjoy object-oriented design and development, problem solving, and technical work that is challenging. I support business goals and business growth by developing new capabilities. I build new solutions to replace legacy systems. I have experience working in lean and agile methodologies. Work Experience Software Developer Johnson Controls - New Freedom, PA June 2014 to Present ? Develop custom libraries (DLLs) with C# to provide drawing services and AutoCAD automation.  ? Maintain 16 custom libraries that create drawing variations from 477 base CAD drawings.  ? Apply object-oriented design, composition, and development to build-out of code libraries.  ? Develop code needed to create and consume XLM data, including implementations with X Path.  ? Transform and shape data, as needed for use with drawing services.  ? Troubleshoot and fix issues with code, drawing artifacts, data, and SQL queries.  ? C# development of "YHAU" project, with emphasis on use of LINQ to achieve project goals.  ? C# development to migrate products from Actrix (legacy) application, to new drawing services.  ? Work directly with product owners to ensure services meet business needs.  ? Support teammates with code development and bug fixes.  ? Document project related business knowledge, sources, and notes.  • Designed and developed "DLP" data gathering and efficiency tool.  ? Developed a self-hosted WCF service application that receives and manages data posted from a running instance of AutoCAD. ("WCF" is Windows Communication Foundation)  ? Developed a custom AutoCAD command, that serves as a WCF client and posts collected data.  • Provide Java coding support and end-user support for "MStage" web application.  • Completed new web server build-out, including installation of Java, Tomcat, MySQL, and web apps.  ? Perform as Tomcat administrator.  • Provide Visual Basic development and support for Actrix (legacy) drawing application. (Project retired.)  ? Designed and built "SocketBuilder" tool, which reduces prep time of Actrix artifacts by 60%. Software Developer (Contracted to Johnson Controls) TEKsystems - York, PA June 2013 to June 2014 • Developed "MStage" web application using NetBeans, Java EE, Hibernate, and MySQL Databases.  • Developed web front-end using PrimeFaces JSF components (Java Server Faces) and JSF Expression Language (XHTML).  • Developed Java backing beans and backend components to drive business rules.  • Developed database components using Hibernate (Object Relational Mapping), SQL, and HQL.  • Developed web app using 2 distinct instances of the Model-View-Controller (MVC) pattern.  • Using C# and Excel automation, developed compatibility tool that transforms XML to Excel data.  (This tool bridges the gap between the web app and legacy Excel spreadsheets and formulas.)  • Applied object-oriented programming, design, and code refactoring. Technical Leader Nielsen - Lancaster, PA January 2007 to March 2013 • Applied lean and agile processes to project development.  • Participated in ITIL meetings and processes for software releases.  ("ITIL" is Information Technology Infrastructure Library)  • Managed project risks, production downtime, and technology upgrades.  • Assumed Scrum Master, Development, Testing, and Deployment roles as needed.  • Contributed to "InifiNet" project, by developing with Enterprise Java, Servlets, HTML, and JavaScript. Team Manager Nielsen - Lancaster, PA January 2005 to January 2007 • Managed 10 associate and staff level software developers.  • Advised team on lean and agile software methodologies.  • Developed and led "Report View" project, which saved Nielsen $700K in third party licensing.  • Prepared reports on Sprint progress and code quality metrics.  • Assisted with project development Scrum Master, Testing, Deployment, and Java Development. Senior Software Developer Nielsen - Lancaster, PA June 2004 to January 2005 • Developed front-end of "InifiNet" web app using Enterprise Java, Servlets, HTML, and JavaScript.  • Administered WebLogic and completed software deployments.  • Performed as Scrum Master by conducting scrums and sprint planning. Education MBA Lebanon Valley College - Lebanon, PA 2011 Bachelor of Science in (BS) Computer Science Millersville University - Millersville, PA 1995 Skills C# (3 years), .NET (3 years), Object Oriented Programming (7 years), AutoCAD Automation (3 years)