Principal Software Engineer Principal <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Principal Software Engineer - Symantec Corporation Culver City, CA • Having over 14 years of hardcore experience in developing Web based and Windows based applications using .NET Framework (4.x and Core)  • Extensive experience in Design, Develop and maintaining applications from the scratch.  • Possess expertise in Object Oriented Programming (OOPS), Design Patterns and Cloud Platforms.  • Strong hold in complete software development lifecycle like AGILE & Waterfall from requirements, effort estimation, design, coding, unit testing, integration, review and support.  • Strong ability in tuning legacy application's performance, scalability, maintainability, security and robustness using latest technologies and tools.  • Ability to grasp and apply new concepts quickly and effectively.  • Predominant experience in Security, Finance, Hospitality, Healthcare and Office Automation domains.  • Microsoft certified Technology Specialist in windows application development with Microsoft .Net Framework 4.0. Work Experience Principal Software Engineer Symantec Corporation May 2015 to Present I have been in front to cleanup any technical debts for my application. Have done lot of refactoring and review to keep my product up-to-date. I worked as a part time PO to our scrum team. Senior Software Engineer Symantec Corporation - Chennai, Tamil Nadu August 2012 to May 2015 Technical Lead HCL Technologies - Chennai, Tamil Nadu January 2011 to July 2012 Senior Software Engineer Bank of America Continuum Solutions - Chennai, Tamil Nadu September 2007 to October 2010 Software Engineer Speech & Software technologies - Chennai, Tamil Nadu November 2006 to August 2007 Software Developer IQ Soft Systems Private Limited - Chennai, Tamil Nadu September 2005 to November 2006 Education Master of Business Administration in Systems in Systems Alagappa University 2008 Bachelor of Engineering in Information Technology in Information Technology Annamalai University 2005 SSLC State Board 2001 Certifications/Licenses Microsoft Certified Technology Specialist (MCTS) August 2012 to Present Frontend application using WPF