MD MD MD - Guggenheim Partners Chicago, IL Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience MD Guggenheim Partners July 2018 to Present Sr.NET Developer    Responsibilities:  • Participated in requirements gathering and compiled them into design document.  • Followed agile methodologies (Scrum) and Test-Driven Development.  • Implemented MVC architecture.  • Developed multi-tiered ASP.NET web applications using C#, HTML5, CSS.  • Created use case and class diagrams in MS Visio using UML notations.  • Involved in Discussion Board for Client Interaction for the change requests and follow-ups.  • Developed middle layer using C#.Net.  • Used ADO.NET Entity Framework for data retrieving, querying, storage and data manipulation.  • Created and consumed Web Services in the services layer.  • Worked with REST based services using MVC, WEB API  • Created WCF service to consume in the middle tier.  • Maintained the WPF and Win Forms applications used by the in-house staff  • Worked with Object Oriented Design Patterns and Object-Oriented Programming concepts  • Worked with ADO.NET, LINQ, Entity Framework to integrate the database with the applications  • Created Joins, Views, functions, stored procedures, indexes and triggers as part of the database programming.  • Involved in performance tuning and query optimization.  • Worked on the helpdesk tickets and resolved by debugging the existing applications  • Maintenance/Enhancement of Project and handling/fixing bug on daily basis reported by Help Desk  • Monitored backend processes like ETLs, report generation, and rule engine processing.  Environment: Net Framework 4.0, Visual Studio 2010, C#.NET, JavaScript, jQuery, Web Services WCF, REST, WEB API, Win Forms, XML, XSD, XSLT, WPF, UML, MS Visio Sr.NET Developer Urban Lending Solutions - CoH LLC - Broomfield, CO May 2016 to June 2018 Urban Lending Solutions (ULS) and its subsidiaries are industry leading providers of customized mortgage services. ULS offers a wide variety of outsourced services to its clients, including mortgage fulfillment services, home retention solutions, appraisals and valuation services, title and settlement services, document fulfillment, and call center services.    Responsibilities:  • Implemented the project using Agile Methodology and SCRUM Implementation.  • Built the new applications using ASP.NET and ASP.NET MVC 3.0/4.0 Razor View Engine  • Built and Consumed WCF Services and Web Services.  • Responsible for setting up the endpoints and bindings for WCF Services  • Worked with C#.NET to develop all the layers of the Solution  • Used LINQ and LINQ to Entities data provider for interacting with the data in the entity framework.  • Done Unit Tests for the modules developed for Unit Tests.  • Responsible for development of various GUI Screens using HTML, DHTML, JavaScript  • Built the plugins in the multi-threading environment  • Implemented the OOD (Object Oriented Design) patterns like Singleton, DI (Dependency Injection)  • Created and Consumed with RESTful Services and shared the data using JSON  • Wrote SQL queries with Joins on multiple tables, Stored Procedures, Functions, Triggers using SQL Server 2008 R2/2012.  • Used Twitter Bootstrap framework for developing customizable and fully responsive for various screen sizes.  • Developed Views and aspx pages using java script, J-query, HTML 5, CSS, AJAX and JSON.  • Publish and maintained web applications in the IIS.  • Used JavaScript and jQuery for client-side scripting to create highly responsive interfaces for users.  • Modified complex stored procedures and functions.  • Wrote SSIS packages in SQL Server.  • Implemented Ajax Asynchronous and Asynchronous calls.  • Optimizing, debugging and creating T-SQL stored procedures in SQL 2008 R2/2012.  • Worked on SQL queries to retrieve data from SQL Server 2008/2012Database.  • Worked on Query Optimization to improve the performance of Queries.  • Written SQL Server Integration Services to retrieve and load data between different data sources  • Writing test plans and assisting with Requirements documents  • Performed several testing including Unit Testing to fix the bugs and ensure the application error-free.  • Written Use cases for the solution built  • Did Code Reviews using TFS  • Maintained/Debugged and enhanced the existing system using ASP.NET, MVC, C#, SQL Server 2005/2008 applications  Environment: ASP.NET, MVC 3.0/4.0, C#, VB.NET, ASP.NET, Classic ASP, ADO.NET Entity Framework, LINQ, Visual Studio.NET 2008/2010, WCF, REST, TFS 2008, T- SQL, XML, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, SQL Server 2008, SSIS, IIS, Windows Server 2008, Telerik, Dev Express Software Consultant Experian - Allen, TX April 2014 to May 2016 Responsibilities:  • Developed multi-tiered ASP.NET MVC web applications using C#, HTML5, CSS.  • Involved in Discussion Board for Client Interaction for the change requests and follow-ups for the enhancement of application.  • Used ADO.NET Entity Framework for data retrieving, querying, storage and data manipulation.  • Worked with REST based services using MVC, WEB API  • Worked with Object Oriented Design Patterns and Object-Oriented Programming concepts  • Worked with ADO.NET, LINQ, Entity Framework to integrate the database with the applications  • Created Joins, Views, functions, stored procedures, indexes and triggers as part of the database programming.  • Coordinated directly with users  Environment: Net Framework 4.5.2, Visual Studio 2017, C#.NET, JavaScript, jQuery, Knockout, REST, WEB API Technical Lead Cognizant Technology Solutions - Phoenix, AZ March 2013 to April 2014 Responsibilities:  • Participated in requirements gathering and compiled them into design document.  • Followed agile methodologies (Scrum) and Test-Driven Development.  • Developed multi-tiered ASP.NET MVC web applications using C#, HTML5, CSS.  • Involved in Discussion Board for Client Interaction for the change requests and follow-ups.  • Used ADO.NET Entity Framework for data retrieving, querying, storage and data manipulation.  • Created and consumed Web Services in the services layer.  • Worked with REST based services using MVC, WEB API  • Worked with Object Oriented Design Patterns and Object-Oriented Programming concepts  • Worked with ADO.NET, LINQ, Entity Framework to integrate the database with the applications  • Created Joins, Views, functions, stored procedures, indexes and triggers as part of the database programming.  • Used Dependency Injection  • Coordinated offshore and onsite teams  • Created Unit Tests using Moq and Integration test to check the workflow of the application  Environment: Net Framework 4.5.2, .Net Core, Visual Studio 2017, C#.NET, JavaScript, jQuery, Web Services, REST, WEB API, Kendo Grid, Autofac, Automapper, Fluent Validation, Moq. Tortoise Git Software Engineer Beyer Productions - Phoenix, AZ February 2011 to March 2013 Responsibilities:  ? Participated in all stages of the Software Development Life Cycle.  ? Solely responsible for entire project.  ? Designed the architecture of the web application.  ? Developed the UI using web pages in ASP.NET.  ? Used server controls in ASP.NET for state management.  ? Used caching capabilities of ASP.NET server controls.  ? Developed custom web controls using ASP.NET and C#.NET.  ? Attended periodical project management meetings.  ? Participated in project requirement understanding, task scheduling, task allocation and testing.  ? Responsible for Test case preparation, Unit testing, Integration testing and smoke testing.  ? Designed and implemented MVC (Model, View and Controller) pattern widely.  ? Developed and integrated web services with the application.  ? Developed windows services using C#.Net and integrated with the application.  ? Created the table design and wrote stored procedures, functions and constraints in SQL Server 2000.  ? Responsible for project re-engineering and performance tuning especially in queries.  ? Provided Production support.  Environment: Microsoft .Net Framework, ASP.NET, ADO.NET, SQL Server 2000, C#.NET, HTML, JavaScript, XML, XSL,SVN with tortoise. Software Engineer ARM INC - San Jose, CA January 2010 to February 2011 Responsibilities:  ? Developed the User Interface using Microsoft ASP.Net and VB.Net.  ? Used server controls in ASP.NET for state management.  ? Used Infragistics data grid for display & other manipulations  ? Developed custom Web Controls using ASP.NET and VB.Net.  ? Created the table design and wrote stored procedures, functions and constraints in SQL Server 2000.  ? Attended periodical project management meetings.  ? Participated in project requirement understanding, scheduling, and task allocation and testing.  ? Responsible for Test case preparation, Unit testing, Integration testing and smoke testing.  ? Developed and integrated web services with the application.  Environment: Microsoft .Net Framework, ASP.NET, ADO.NET, SQL Server 2000, VB.NET, HTML, JavaScript, XML, CVS, NANT, NUNIT and Cruise Control. Software Developer Breg Inc - San Diego, CA March 2009 to January 2010 Project #3: Enterprise Resource Planning Package  Responsibilities:  ? Developed the User Interface using Web Forms using ASP.Net.  ? Developed business layers using VB.Net.  ? Created the table design and wrote stored procedures, functions and constraints in SQL Server 2000.  ? Prepared Test Cases and performed Unit testing.  ? Used server controls in ASP.NET for state management.  ? Developed custom Web Controls using ASP.NET and VB.Net.  ? Responsible for Test case preparation, Unit testing.  ? Developed and integrated web services with the application.  Environment: Microsoft .Net Framework 1.0, ASP.NET, VB.NET, ADO.NET, SQL Server 2000, MS Access 2000.  Project #2: Integrated Business Management System (IBMS)  Responsibilities:  ? Developed the User Interface using Microsoft VB.Net.  ? Responsible for Test case preparation, Unit testing.  ? Reports developed in Microsoft Access 2000 and ASP.Net.  Environment: Microsoft .Net Framework 1.0, ADO.NET, SQL Server 2000, VB.NET, HTML, JavaScript, XML.  Project #1: Purchase and Stores Management System  Programmer  Responsibilities:  ? Developed the User Interface using WinForms using VB.Net.  ? Developed business layers using VB.Net.  ? Performed Unit testing.  Environment: .Net Framework 1.0, ADO.NET, SQL Server 2000, MS Access 2000, VB.NET. Education Bachelor's Skills .NET (10+ years), ADO (10+ years), ADO.NET (10+ years), AJAX (2 years), ASP (10+ years), ASP.NET (10+ years), C# (8 years), CSS. (6 years), DHTML (2 years), HTML (6 years), JavaScript (10+ years), jQuery (6 years), Microsoft .Net (4 years), MS .NET (4 years), MS ADO (10+ years), MS ASP (10+ years), VB.NET (4 years), Visual Studio (6 years), Web Services (8 years), XML (7 years)