Software Engineer <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Software Engineer Hartford, WI Work Experience Software Engineer KOHL's Innovation Center - Menomonee Falls, WI November 2018 to July 2019 Menomonee Falls, WI (Zone24x7 contract) - November 2018 to July 2019  Provides technology and innovation for Kohl's Department Stores to enhance the customer experience for easy, seamless shopping experiences.    Software Engineer  • Provided hardware and software support for all technology prototypes running in the Kohl's Innovation Lab, to be ready at all times for executive demos, including various electronics, robots, mobile apps, and applications.  • Modified Android apps according to product owner specifications.  • Performed software upgrades on Windows, Linux, Android, Windows Mobile, and iOS devices.    Technologies used: Android, Android Studio, ADB, Unity, Visual Studio, Slamtec RoboStudio, Fetch Robotics Platform. INDEPENDENT CONTRACTOR Landmark Credit Union - Waukesha, WI September 2017 to September 2018 • Brookdale Senior Living, West Allis, WI  • Astronautics, Milwaukee, WI    Tednologies used: C#, Razor Pages, MVC, Java, JavaScript, TypeScript, JQuery, CSS, Oracle database, Microsoft SQL, Entity Framework, TFS, SSIS, Visual Studio, Eclipse. Software Engineer FINASTRA - Mequon, WI May 2017 to September 2017 Developed solutions for feature changes to Powersite and Powermanager mortgage application software.    • Added / modified database driven questions for online mortgage applications.  • Provided new functionality in admin management software.  • Performed software back-end and front-end changes as described in user stories.    Technologies used: .NET, C#, Razor Pages, VB.NET, MVC, Microsoft SQL, jQuery, JavaScript, CSS, TypeMock, Unity, CSLA, Entity Framework, Agile Central, Visual Studio, TFS, Jira, Agile Central. Senior Java Developer POWER PRODUCTS, LLC - Menomonee Falls, WI January 2015 to September 2016 Menomonee Falls, WI (Octane contract to permanent) - January 2015 to September 2016  Venture Capital company that purchases eCommerce websites and sells products from global warehouses.    Senior Java Developer  Supported, re-engineered, and added new features to www.delcity.net eCommerce web applications, batch processes and other Power Products web applications.  (262) 573-8556 ken.hanson.dev@gmail.com    • Identified the need, convinced the stakeholders, designed, coded and tested a new rules engine JAR library.  • Re-engineered the HubSpot email-marketing feed process.  • Compared Java production code to source code, identified mismatched code, and developed missing code.  • Modified code deployment procedures to improve speed and reliablility.  • Replaced hard-coded values with dynamic values.  • Upgraded Java eCommerce website to use the latest i-parcel version, from XML to JSON.  • Trained a junior developer to support Power Products web applications in less than one year.  • Optimized Java eCommerce application dynamic product images.    Technologies used: Java, J2EE, Eclipse, Jenkins, Git, Juery, JSP, Servlets, JavaScript, JDBC, Oracle database, Triggers, Sequences, Linux, VPN, JSON, Gson, XML, HTML5, TrustCommerce service, Visio, ImageMagick, i-Parcel service, HawkSearch service, Linux, Tomcat, WebLogic. Software Developer QUADMED - Sussex, WI March 2014 to December 2014 Sussex, WI (Randstad Technologies contract) - March 2014 to December 2014  Provides self-funded employer healthcare plans with on-site employee health clinics.    Software Developer  Upgraded the QuadMed EMR software to integrate with GE Centricity Practice Solution 12.    • Converted existing C# applications to choose appropriate database on a per-query basis depending upon patient criteria.  • Migrated a newly acquired company's patients to the QuadMed system.  • Created / fixed unit tests and integration tests for applications.  • Created new databases and wrote scripts to migrate data for multiple environments.    Technologies used: .NET, C#, Microsoft SQL, SSMS, TSQL, Linux, ActiveMQ, PostgreSQL, pgAdmin, iBatis, TFS, MVC, Visual Studio, Resharper, Rhino Mocks, Structuremap Automocking, NuGet, TeamCity, Visual Studio Online, Subversion. Product Developer INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS SYSTEMS - Brookfield, WI December 2013 to March 2014 Brookfield, WI (Randstad Technologies contract) - December 2013 to March 2014  Warehouse management software.    Product Developer  Design and develop warehouse management software.    • Engineered a web-based prototype using REST Web services on existing MS SQL database.  • Lead an offshore team to create a stored procedure to convert MS SQL tables, stored procedures and triggers to upgrade existing customer databases to support Unicode for multiple cultures.    Technologies used: .NET, C#, Microsoft SQL, SSMS, TSQL, Entity Framework, Linq to SQL, ESQL, Web API, REST, IIS, AngularJS, Kendo UI, Bootstrap, JQuery, JavaScript, CSS, JSON, MVC, Visual Studio, HTML5, Subversion, Jira, JoinMe. Technical Lead CONNECTURE, INC - Brookfield, WI July 2013 to December 2013 Lead a team of offshore software developers.    • Set up the code repository on Github and converted Subversion repository to Git.  • Communicated with client and team members to determine best solution for consumer digital experience.    Technologies used: Java, JBoss, J2EE, Microsoft SQL, Hibernate, Spring, Struts, Git, Subversion, Maven, CSS, LESS, HTML, XML, MVC, Eclipse, Microsoft Project, Jira, GoToMeeting, VPN.    (262) 573-8556 ken.hanson.dev@gmail.com Software Developer WENNSOFT - New Berlin, WI March 2013 to June 2013 New Berlin, WI (Robert Half Technology contract) - March 2013 to June 2013  Operational business management software solutions.    Software Developer  As a member of the Remote Worker Applications team, developed a custom portal and portlets with eXo-Platform built upon Gatein in an agile development environment.    • Created and developed a multi-page portal with XML files, using the built-in eXo portlets for navigation and breadcrumbs.  • Created a portlet with XML files to run custom Java code and Javascript using JSPs.    Technologies used: Java, XML, Maven, JavaScript, JQuery, JSP, CSS, HTML, XML, TFS, Visual Studio, Eclipse, MS SQL Server, IIS, SSMS, Exo-Platform, RDP, Wiki, GoToMeeting. Software Build Engineer GE HEALTHCARE - Waukesha, WI October 2011 to October 2012 Waukesha, WI (Mars IT and Kelly Services contract) - October 2011 to October 2012  Medical technologies and services.    Software Build Engineer  Ensured availability of all developer needs: including servers, applications, and network resources. Designed and developed reusable tools to provide static analysis reporting to identify and prevent potential impediments.    • Designed and developed a Web-based RPM analysis tool to show the interrelations between them, aiding in component-based builds and continuous integration for the CT Revolution project.  • Engineered a backup system to clone the code repository on a scheduled basis.  • Mediated a new process of adding new CT Linux servers placed under control of the IT department.    Technologies used: Linux, IBM Rally, Sonar, Coverity, JavaScript, JQuery, Python, Eclipse, ClearCase, CodeCollaborator, Maven, Artifactory, RPM, BASH, Mercurial, Virtual Box, OCGI, JQuery, CSS, IBM Quality Center, DHCP, SMTP, XHTML, XML, XSL, XSLT, MySQL, LDAP, IBM BuildForge, IBM ClearCase, IBM ClearQuest, Wiki, WebEx, VPN, NX NoMachine, Rsync, RPM, Apache HTTP Server, Tomcat. Senior .NET Architect / Developer ADVANCED PAIN MANAGEMENT - Greenfield, WI April 2011 to August 2011 Greenfield, WI (Mars IT contract) - April 2011 to August 2011  Pain management health care services.    Senior .NET Architect / Developer  Gather requirements, architect, design, develop, test, and deploy Web-based and GUI solutions using ASP.NET, C#.NET, and Microsoft SQL Server in an agile development environment.    • Migrated NextGen Healthcare System database from Microsoft SQL Server 2005 to 2008, updating stored procedures and triggers as required.  • Created a functional Note Review application for physicians to more efficiently update their patient encounter notes, including a real-time spell checker.  • Re-instantiated an ASP.NET solution and converted ad hoc queries to Stored Procedures.  • Created a functional Workflow Form application for showing the status of every step of patient encounters to ensure that all steps are addressed as well as several other features.  • Created a custom trigger to run a custom stored procedure utilizing extensive filtering to fire the trigger on updates but only execute the stored procedure at the precise moment when all necessary data is present.    Technologies used: .NET, C#, Winforms, ASP.NET, Microsoft SQL, IIS, TSQL, VBScript, Visual Studio, SQL Server Management Studio (SSMS), NHibernate, XML, HQL, ODBC. Systems Administrator/Programmer/Analyst GEMEX SYSTEMS, INC - Mequon, WI October 2001 to March 2011 Mequon, WI - October 2001 to March 2011  Manufacturer of gemstone measuring equipment and certification reports.    Systems Administrator/Programmer/Analyst  Responsible for systems analysis, development, implementation, and troubleshooting of all computer automated processes including relational databases, applications, scripts, programs, FTP transfers, Email notifications, Web site    (262) 573-8556 ken.hanson.dev@gmail.com    updates, and file manipulation. Responsible for installation, upgrading, maintenance, troubleshooting, and technical support for all computer hardware, software, and user applications on a small LAN. Responsible for data security, disaster recovery, and virtual private networking. Responsible for performance tuning of all processes. Responsible for managing the Information Technology department for three years.    • Converted several standalone databases into one centralized relational database.  • Designed, developed, and implemented a production system which automated 60 percent of the entire production process.  • Built a complete automated electronic customer invoicing system.  • Engineered and deployed automated integration of varying customer order files and enabled web-based ordering.  • Provided clear documentation for all system processes and user procedures.  • Designed, developed, and implemented the web-based Customer Portal.  • Re-engineered the production system with a Web-based interface and automated 80 percent of the entire production process.  • Re-engineered the automated report generation process to use new InDesign templates and legacy templates.  • Consolidated common elements between report layouts to reduce the amount of report template maintenance.  • Designed, developed, and implemented a process to automatically re-size and rotate images for reports.  • Developed a user interface to control a diamond engraving machine, track all machine activity, and transfer data packages.    Technologies used: Java, J2EE, .NET, C#, PHP, SQL, MySQL, SQLite, Python, Ruby, VBScript, JavaScript, Eclipse, Visual Studio, Filemaker Pro, Filemaker Server, Hibernate, NHibernate, Spring, Tapestry, JBoss, Typo3, FTP, UML, HTML, XHTML, CSS, XML, XAML, YAML, HQL, ODBC, JDBC, TCP/IP, Ethernet, Wi-Fi, Photoshop, InDesign, Acrobat, Adobe Scripting, Data Modeling, Relational Databases, ERD, ImageMagick, Winforms, WPF, WCF, MVC, Ethernet, iSCSI, iSCSICLI, Linux, Subversion, Apache HTTP Server, SQLYog, Ant, ModelRight, MagicDraw, Adobe Creative Suite, Ghostscript, Eyebatch, Balsamiq Mockups, NAS, VPN. Education Bachelor of Science in Information Technology in Information Technology University of Phoenix - Brookfield, WI Associate of Applied Science degree in Electronic Engineering Technology ITT Technical Institute - Greenfield, WI Skills Application development, Object oriented, Web services, Android, Restful web services, CSS, MYSQL, Git, PHP, Javascript Additional Information Relational Databases Object Oriented Methodology Web Application Development  RESTful Web Services System Architecture Desktop Application Development  Agile / Scrum Methodology System Re-engineering Android Development  Waterfall Methodology System Implementation Business Analysis