Solution Lead -ETL/DataStage Solution Lead -ETL/DataStage Solution Lead -ETL/DataStage - Harley-Davidson Milwaukee, WI • More than 12 years of experience major in Data warehousing as Solution Lead, Consultant, Developer and Support Analyst  • Worked extensively in ETL DataStage and Teradata  • Hands on experience in Teradata SQL Assistant, Teradata Administrator, IBM Data Stage, Perl & UNIX scripting.  • Worked on Different flavors of Unix, Mainframes, JCL and Cobol programming  • Expertise in DataStage Client components - DataStage Designer, DataStage Manager, DataStage Director and DataStage Administrator  • Working knowledge of PowerCenter Informatica Client components - Designer, Workflow manager, repository manager and workflow monitor.  • Strong Knowledge of Data Warehouse architecture in Designing Star Schema, Snow Flake Schema, FACT and Dimensional Tables.  • Designed, developed and implemented multiple projects in DWH space  • Experience in writing Unix Shell and Perl scripts for various purposes like file handling, pattern matching, data cleansing and job scheduling etc.  • Job scheduler experience using Control-M, Crontab, Autosys etc.  • Worked as Team lead, Tech lead and track/module lead in multiple projects  • Worked as project lead for multiple assignment at onsite  • Worked in telecom, retail, banking and manufacturing domains.  • Working knowledge of Cognos, Crystal Reports, Tableau and SAP MDM.  • Proficient in conducting System Testing, Functionality Testing, Regression Testing, User Acceptance Testing (UAT) and training of users  • Experience in creating SQL queries to facilitate UAT and perform data validation.  • Developed Test Cases, Test Scripts and SQL to perform Unit Testing, System Testing and Load Testing. Worked with Operations and Platform teams to migrate ETL Code and DB objects from Development to Testing, UAT and Production.  • Proficient and prompt in learning and adapting to new technologies.  • Strong interpersonal, analytical and communication skills. Work Experience Solution Lead -ETL/DataStage Harley-Davidson October 2018 to Present This project, with H-D (Harley-Davidson), US heavy motor bike major, is to payout dealer commission for Amazon sells of general Merchandise products.  This project includes designing of following interface in ETL layer  Maintaining dealer assigned territories by processing input spread sheets in ETL layer and applying delta records each month.  Processing Amazon sells file and calculating and paying dealers commission thru HD invoicing system.    Responsibilities:  • Played overall solution lead and worked on overall design flow.  • Meeting business, understanding requirements and drafting functional specs.  • Worked with tech leads of all different system to understand system limitation and adjusting design accordingly.  • In ETL layer called SOAP and RESTful Web-service and processed XML inputs to find closest Dealer for a given ship to zip code value.  • Designed staging layer to avoid duplicate order processing  • Design, develop and debug complex code using DataStage 11.5    Environment: IBM DataStage 11.5, Linux, SQL-Server database, SAP MDM, AS400 Harley-Davidson - Milwaukee, WI September 2014 to Present Solution Lead -ETL/DataStage Harley-Davidson July 2016 to October 2018 H-D is selling general merchandise, apparels and bike parts on eCommerce online store. Worked on number of small projects and enhancements.  Some of the small enhancement include  Adding Display out of stock field in the integration and MDM layer to make products visible on eComm website even though product runs of inventory.  Proactive alert mechanism to avoid frequent batch job failures and catch data errors beforehand.  Trademarking automation, applying HD proprietary copyright and trademarking symbols in Product descriptions through Perl Script.  Key features bullet tuple functionality in MDM layer and integrating it with DataStage and WCS systems.    Responsibilities:  • Played onsite lead role for DataStage technology.  • Meeting business, understanding requirements and drafting functional specs.  • Worked as overall solution lead.  • Reviewing Technical specifications.  • Design, develop and debug complex code using DataStage 11.5  • Worked with architects closely to review designs.  • Developed new MDM syndication and import maps    Environment: IBM DataStage 11.5, Linux, DB2 database, SAP MDM Data Engineer Harley-Davidson April 2016 to June 2016 As part of this project, built data lake for set of source systems in order to generate desired data visualization in Tableau.    Responsibilities:  • Analyzing the user needs and identifying the correct data sources/marts  • Designing the overall load strategy for data into Lake  • Help in Installing Infosys Information platform over the Azure server.  • Data validation using Python scripts.  • Working with architects to review the data quality and integrity.  • Working with offshore team  • Help in designing data visualization using Tableau. Create word cloud, Plotting warranty claims data across world map etc.    Environment: Big data Technologies Hive, Infosys Information platform (IIP), Tableau, JDBC drives to connect various sources Data Engineer Harley-Davidson October 2015 to April 2016 As a part of project, designed significant changes in Data flow model for any new products and developing integration jobs in DataStage to integrate various applications across technologies. Interface jobs are being developed across iSeries/AS400 systems, SAP MDM, Flex PLM etc.    Responsibilities:  • Played onsite lead role for DataStage technology  • Analyzing the Functional specifications and doing the impact analysis.  • Detailing the changes in Technical specifications.  • Use XML stage for parsing complex XML, Stored procedure stage to call stored procedure on AS400 in Informatica 9.6  • Working with architects closely to design reviews.  • Understanding MDM syndication and import maps  • Leading team in various technologies and get the work done.  • Developed Shell scripts  • To restrict header only files from reaching downstream  • To count files from sources and loop through main sequencers in order to process each file coming from source.  • To move output files using NFS mount points on Linux.  • To purge old files from Archive directory of MDM  • To move files to other servers using sFTP    Environment: Informatica 9.6, Linux, iSeries AS400 systems, SAP MDM Senior Data Engineer /Lead Harley-Davidson April 2015 to September 2015 This assignment with H-D was to design, develop integration jobs in DataStage to support ISOS (In-Store ordering solution) order reporting and to make Dealership inventory available to buy on H-D eCommerce site. Designed new fact tables to support BO reporting for ISOS orders. Developed new DataStage jobs to load fact tables and integrate different systems within H-D.    Responsibilities:  • Played onsite lead role for DataStage, Informatica and BO related work  • Designing functional and tech specs  • Developed DataStage jobs to load fact table to support ISOS reports  • Developed integration jobs in DataStage  • Providing support during SIT, UAT and defect resolution  • Cut over activities.  • Requirement analysis and converting them to tasks for offshore teams  • Working closely with business teams to understand BO report requirements  • Attending regular technical and status calls with project stakeholders  • BO report deployment on internal HD sites  • Scheduling new control-m jobs  • Developed shell scripts  • To rename files to append date timestamps at the end of filenames  • To prevent overwriting of downstream files in case they are not processed.    Environment: DataStage 9.1, Informatica 9.6, BO 4.1, Control-M, SQL Server 2000 Data Engineer/Lead Harley-Davidson September 2014 to March 2015 This assignment with H-D was to upgrade all the existing production jobs from IBM DataStage version of 8.1(AIX), 7.5.1a (Windows) to 9.1 (Linux). The upgrade project was part of risk remediation project which is in place to decommission old technologies due to high cost in support contracts. All the control-m schedules also upgraded to new BMC tool version. Touched almost each and every job within HD in new DataStage version across environments multiple times.    Responsibilities:  • Worked as lead with team of new joiners, and trained them in various technologies as well as SDLC and HD processes  • Preparing release plan  • Dividing and tracking hundreds of jobs as per plan  • istools command script for bulk import/export of DataStage jobs across project and landscapes.  • Converting non supported stages like bulk load stage into DRS stage.  • Worked with IBM for compatibility of drivers for SQL Server  • Migrating Persistent Hash files, Surrogate keys in new environment  • Developing master shell script for control-m scheduler  • Shell script and command activity changes in-line with Linux syntax  • Helping in DataStage installation on various environments.  • Database refresh activities for testing in dev, dev-2, SIT etc.  • Preparing test results and soughing UAT acceptance for various releases.  • Driven multiple releases successfully  • Developed shell scripts  • To call DataStage jobs from Linux with dsjob command option  • To use isTools to move the code across environments and servers.  • To move the surrogate key file using KeyMgtgetNextVal and KeyMgtGetNextValConcurrent functions  • To use fnuxi command while moving the Hash files across Windows and Linux.    Environment: DataStage 9.1, v8.1 and v7.5.1a, Control-M, SQL Server 2000, DB2, Oracle, MDM, AS400 and other upstream and downstream systems/technologies. Engineer/ Developer Harley-Davidson January 2014 to August 2014 This project, with Harley-Davidson, US heavy motor bike major, was to design and develop integration jobs in DataStage. TradeVia is third party application which provides HCC code to each part being imported by HD after doing some inspections. TradeVia was a source system for MDM and AS400. Developed DataStage jobs to integrate various technologies within HD technology landscape.    Responsibilities:  • Writing Technical specifications for various data flows like TradeVia to MDM, Inter repository jobs within MDM, MDM to AS400 and MDM to TradeVia.  • Design and develop DataStage jobs as per Functional requirements specifications.  • Finding solutions to various business problems.  • Supporting DataStage jobs through various phases of project, fixing defects and implementing solution in production.    Environment: DataStage v8.1, Control-M, SQL Server 2000, DB2, AS400, MDM and other upstream and downstream systems/technologies. Senior Support Analyst February 2013 to December 2013 This project, with Harley-Davidson, US heavy motor bike major, was to support E-commerce web-site. E-commerce website sells motor bikes as well as spare parts online. Project involved in analyzing DS jobs and preparing application information document. In the later stage it is going to involve primary support for Datastage.    Responsibilities:  • Analyzing existing schedules in control-m.  • Preparing application information document.  • Understanding DS jobs and downstream system flows  • Understanding architecture  • Suggesting modification and performance improvement changes.  • Supported jobs calling SOAP API webservice hosted on SAP MDM Product repository.    Environment: DataStage v8.1, Control-M, SQL Server 2000, DB2, MDM and other upstream and downstream systems/technologies. Senior Software Developer Barclaycard June 2012 to February 2013 This project, with BTCI Pune, was designed to implement new TRIAD (source) version into data warehouse. The data warehouse was built on Teradata database. We had designed COBOL to split the flat files which was coming in array format from TRIAD. We wrote JCLs to call the COBOL executable and Teradata utilities steps to load the split files. Project involved testing under UAT, SIT and raising the change and implementing in production successfully.    Responsibilities:  • Designed and Developing the COBOL scripts.  • Designing and testing of new SQLs/Mload scripts.  • Designing Teradata tables.  • Raising the change and doing SIT, UAT & OAT testing.    Environment: COBOL, Mainframes, Teradata 13.10, SQL Assistant, Windows XP Barclaycard - Pune, Maharashtra January 2011 to February 2013 Senior Software Developer Barclaycard January 2012 to May 2012 This project, with BTCI Pune, was implementation of BIB (Barclays internet banking) application data in data warehouse. We changed the design of wrapper scripts written in Perl and changing the shell scripts. Earlier processing was full refresh which has been changed to delta loading and version maintaining using dates. Project involved testing under UAT, SIT and raising the change and implementing successfully.    Responsibilities:  • Developing the shell scripts as per new design.  • Modifying the existing wrapper scripts written Perl.  • Designing and testing of new SQLs/Fload/Mload scripts.  • Code migration to new version of Teradata. Testing the entire code against TD 13.10.  • Raising the change and doing SIT, UAT & OAT testing.  • Developed shell scripts  • To call Teradata utilities like FastLoad, Mload, FastExport from AIX server  • To process complex files and cleanse data before loading them into Staging tables.    Environment: Teradata TD12/13.10, SQL Assitant, Unix Shell Script Senior Software Developer Barclaycard June 2011 to December 2011 This project, with BTCI Pune, was migration of Siebel application data in data warehouse. The project included designing of JCLs, SQL members and testing of same. The task includes table designing, data flow and SQL designing.    Responsibilities:  • Changing the code as per changes in data dictionary.  • Developing/Modifying SQL and testing it  • Raising the change and doing SIT, UAT & OAT testing.    Environment: Mainframe, JCLs, Teradata TD12, SQL Assistant, Windows XP Senior Software Developer Barclaycard January 2011 to May 2011 Project involved the Development of SQL scripts for the payment's module. There were few SQL scripts which had been modified and tested as per the changing req. from business. We supported the performance and execution of the automated scripts under UNIX.    Responsibilities:  • Analyze the Client Requirement  • Developing/Modifying SQL  • Client Communication and Attending regular Conference Calls and Meetings    Environment: Teradata TD12, SQL Assistant, WINDOWS XP Senior Software Developer Vodafone September 2010 to December 2010 This project, at IBM Pune, was transformation of existing EDW into datastage/oracle from Teradata/Unix scripts. Vodafone is one of the major telecom companies in India. The data needs to be extracted from Oracle using Datastage jobs. Same data has to be loaded into Oracle and aggregates are kept in Teradata. Extensive shell scripting was involved in calling the extraction & loading jobs. Jobs are developed and tested under UNIX (AIX) environment.    Responsibilities:  • Analyze the Client Requirement  • Developing Extraction jobs in DataStage  • Development of the DataStage jobs for loading and data cleansing.  • Handling Client Communication and Attending regular Conference Calls and Meetings  • Handling the team members work, Code review and testing.  • Responsible for overseeing the Quality procedures related to the project.  • Developed shell scripts  • To call batch jobs in Teradata  • To create reconciliation report matching source and extracted counts    Environment: Pro*C, DataStage (PX), Oracle 8i, Teradata TD12, SQL Assistant, Toad, WINDOWS XP, UNIX (Sun) Vodafone October 2008 to December 2010 Senior Software Developer Vodafone May 2010 to August 2010 The aim of the project was to make day-1 data available in EDW. Vodafone is one of the major telecom companies in India. The data needs to be extracted from Oracle using Pro*C scripts and has to be loaded before the business hours starts. Extensive shell scripting was involved in calling the extraction & loading jobs. Jobs are developed and tested under UNIX (Sun-Solaris) environment.    Responsibilities:  • Analyze the Client Requirement  • Developing Extraction jobs in Pro*C  • Analyzing the Defects raised by Client  • Provide the Solution of the Defects  • Handling Client Communication and Attending regular Conference Calls and Meetings  • Handling the team members work, Code review and testing.  • Responsible for overseeing the Quality procedures related to the project.    Environment: Oracle 8i, Teradata v2r5, Pro*C, Toad, WINDOWS XP, UNIX (Sun/HP-UX/AIX) Senior Software Developer Vodafone October 2008 to April 2010 This project at IBM, Pune was development & production support project. Vodafone is one of the major telecom companies in India. IBM has outsourced the project to Satyam. Project work includes the extraction jobs development and monitoring under UNIX environment. Loading jobs need to be tested and monitored.    Responsibilities:  • Analyze the Client Requirement  • Developing Extraction jobs in Pro*C, Developing fastload scripts.  • Provide the Solution of the Defects  • Automate the manual work using shell and perl scripts.    Environment: Pro*C, Oracle 8i, Teradata V2R5, V2R6, Toad, Unix, Windows XP Senior Software Developer Tesco - Bengaluru, Karnataka July 2008 to October 2008 Project: Gap Analysis    This project involved the Teradata and Perl. We had to analyze the scripts in Teradata like BTEQ, Fastload, Mload and FastExports. Certain tables were not populating in Teradata and that needs to be identified by Perl using the pattern matching. The environment was Mainframes and around 4000 JCLs and 7500+ Teradata scripts (TDS) were there. The project duration was 4 months which was completed before time.    Responsibilities:  • Leading the team  • Trained team on patterns matching in JCL and Teradata scripts as well as Perl scripting.  • Analysis of the specifications provided by the clients  • Development and Testing of Perl Scripts.  • Regular conference calls with customers back in UK.    Environment: Teradata V2R5, Perl, Mainframes, Windows XP. Senior Software Developer January 2008 to July 2008 Project: SOA core    This project supports the service requests coming in the form of email from the user via email in Outlook. The request contains the queries from the user which are executed on database. The result set is retrieved and response goes back to the user via email. The entire programming was done in Perl.    Responsibilities:  • Analyzing the requirement of the project  • Coding of Perl scripts and SQL  • Testing the application  • Responsible for writing the Perl script which reads the email from Outlook and parse the XML tags into meaningful SQL queries. These queries were executed on database and response Perl script gives the response back to the user.    Environment: Microsoft Outlook 2007, MySQL, Perl Senior Software Developer Telstra - Bengaluru, Karnataka June 2007 to January 2008 Project: Telstra TDW    Worked on Teradata SQL, Utilities and DataStage Transformations. Telstra data warehouse is one of the biggest data warehouses in the world. Around 45 Terabytes of data is there. Satyam is doing development work as well as support and maintenance work for the same project.    Responsibilities:  • Analyzing the requirement of the project  • Monitoring and triggering the jobs.  • Support via call/emails.  • Handling the data quality issues.    Environment: DataStage 7.5, Control M, Teradata V2R5, Perl Education Bachelors of Engineering in Computer Science in Computer Science Gujarat University 2006 Skills Db2, Sql server, Sql server 2000, Mysql, Oracle, Sql, Datastage, Etl, Informatica, Teradata, Cognos, Cobol, Perl, Scripting, Unix, Unix shell, Ms-dos, Jcl, Crystal reports Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Operating Systems: Mainframes, Windows, UNIX, MS-DOS  ETL: IBM DataStage 7.51a, 8.1, 8.5, 9.1, 11.5, Informatica 10.2  Reports: Business Objects, Cognos, Crystal Reports  Languages: C, UNIX Shell and Perl Scripting, JCL, COBOL  Databases: Teradata V2R5/R6/13, Oracle, SQL Server 2000, DB2, MySQL