Director of Software Development Director of <span class="hl">Software</span> Development Director of Software Development - Mitchell International Work Experience Director of Software Development Mitchell International October 2018 to Present Leading 60+ onshore and offshore dev organization for Mitchell Connect and Cloud Repair products for shops and insurance companies. Managing managers, developers, QA and scrum masters. Responsible for delivering solutions to  market, working with product management on defining product strategy, defining technical roadmaps for product, defining, measuring and tuning software processes to ensure quality releases & team productivity, engagement with  customers on key project initiatives, operational management of services and applications to ensure customer SLAs are  met, developing & mentoring next generation leaders, getting the best talent into Mitchell & organizing for success.  Evangelized how to build production ready microservices. Tech Stack for products: React, Angular JS, .Net WebAPI, SpringBoot microservices, Oracle. Senior Software Development Manager Mitchell International June 2016 to September 2018 Led 30+ onshore and offshore dev organization. Responsible for Mitchell Connect, an online solution used by appraisers for assessing and reporting vehicle damage. Built 4 onshore teams from ground up with smart full-stack developers  delivering state-of-the-art angular web application backed by C# .NET restful services, Java rest services, EJBs, MDBs,  microservices and Oracle. Driving architecture, development, delivery, and operational support of application & services.  Ensuring application scales to process millions of transactions per month. Mentored developers, principals and managers. Evangelized use of Google Analytics for telemetry, need for shorter PSIs & focus on Quality. DevCon speaker  on "Telemetry via Google Analytics and AppD" in 2017. Software Development Manager Mitchell International October 2012 to June 2016 Responsible for WPF based desktop application for insurance company appraisers and software updater for desktop  products. Lead 2 onshore teams of 5 developers each and 1 offshore team of devs to deliver focused key results. Built  rich workflows in WPF backed by SQL server and C# WCF services. Side project: Wrote an ASP. Net MVC app for operational reporting. Software Tech Lead February 2011 to October 2012 Tech lead for platform services and work process collaboration. Lead a team of developers to design, implement and deliver key shared services such as app updates, docstore, authentication, & work process collaboration services.  Evangelized use of TDD, unit testing, IoC. Services/apps written in C#, ASP.Net MVC, SQL using Enterprise Library logging, Unity, and Moq for unit testing. Side project: Wrote enterprise library-based logging framework, which was used by  platform team and several departments. Software Developer I-II June 2005 to January 2011 Developer at Microsoft Online services and Sharepoint divisions. Responsible for developing external and internal facing  AdCenter APIs and services using C#, WCF, Entity Framework, Linq and Dataset designer, and SQL server. Evangelized  use for Unity, VSTS performance tests, Unit tests and code coverage. Side projects: PlayCode for running compiling and executing C# codeblocks like TSQL and messaging using MSMQ and JobManager tool for performing exporting and  importing of Sharepoint objects. Education Master's in Computer Science in Computer Science Rochester Institute of Technology June 2005 Bachelor's in Computer Science Engineering in Computer Science Engineering Center for Discovery Informatics March 2004 to August 2004 Education Society's College of Engineering May 2002 banking Ladies Representative of College - Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh Skills C#, Wcf, Sql, Mvc, Asp, Asp.net, Soa, Enterprise architecture, Software design, Tableau, Rest, Logging, Architecture Additional Information SKILLS  Lean Agile, Scrum, Enterprise Architecture, Software Design, SOA, Microservices, C#, REST, Angular JS, ASP.Net MVC,  WebApi, SQL, WCF, Moq, Unity, Enterprise logging, AppDynamics, Google Analytics, Tableau Reporting, Program  Management, & Cross Functional Leadership