Database & Report Developer Database &amp; Report <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer Bath, PA Application and Database Developer with 20+ years of experience in software development in the Airline/Ground Transportation, Trucking/Railroad/Intermodal, and Clinical Trial industries. Adept in handling challenges, using past experiences, along with current and future technical skills to overcome any obstacle. Hardworking, detail-oriented, excellent communicator, goal-setter and client satisfaction driven. Loves to work with data and constructing automation processes. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database & Report Developer Innovative Control Systems, Inc. - Wind Gap, PA January 2019 to Present -Develop and maintain 100+ SSRS and web reports used by approx 2,000 car wash owners. These reports range from yearly statistical data down to specific hourly shift data.  -Optimize and tune poorly running stored procedures that run on approx 10,000 MSSQL client databases, which vary from versions 2008, 2014 and 2016.  -Troubleshoot and investigate client escalation reporting issues that arise through the company's call center. Software Development Consultant Addison Lee | FlyteTyme Limousine - Mahwah, NJ March 2017 to Present -Developed and maintain an automated system that processes reservation requests from the Emirates Airlines system and integrates them into the company's reservation system. C#, MSSQL objects, and GoogleMaps API were used for this system, that is currently being used for 20+ daily flights spanning 7 US airport and processing 2200+ reservation requests daily, while decreasing labor costs for the reservations department.  -Built and maintain a manifest generation process for Emirates Airlines, that shows it's current ground reservations for 20+ daily flights at specific intervals(72H,48H, 24H, 12H, 6H).   -Developed and maintain processes that control inbound and outbound vehicle status and GPS transactions for owned and affiliate vehicles. These processes use various technologies(ASP.net/C#/JSON, WCF/C#/SOAP/JSON, Powerbuilder/JSON) using stored procedures built on a MSSQL DBMS.  -Developed and maintain several window services that poll the production database and alter data as required by clients and/or other processes. These windows services were built in C# and use MSSQL stored procedures.  -Maintain a set of management style windows applications that give users information on reservations and past communications with passengers. These visual applications were built in Powerbuilder 12.5 and 2017 R2.  -Built a suite of complex management style automated reports used by corporate and airline clients. These reports were built with C# and OpenXML due to their visual complexity.  -Generate rate grids based on geo location and account for company RFPs. Senior Software Developer Integrated Data Communication Systems, Inc.(IDCS) - Easton, PA April 2008 to August 2018 -Developed and maintained the company's front-end M&R application(AIMS) that allowed both internal and external Railroad companies(CSX, NS, UP) to manage Accounts Payable, Accounts Receivable(3rd Party rebills), Invoice and Inspection entry, reports and system configuiration.   -Built and maintained daily, weekly and monthly outbound AR and AP feeds in various formats for various clients/railroads(CN, CP, CSX, NS, UP, XPO, etc).  -Developed and maintained EDI console applications to process inbound invoices and repair orders from repair vendors using the EDI 422 specifications.  -Developed and maintained EDI console applications to process inbound intermodal inspections from various railroads using the EDI 322 specifications.  -Maintained code and rules for equipment owned clients, for processes that generated 3rd party rebills. These rebills consistently saved clients between 50K-250K monthly.  -Maintained and enhanced a rebill and dispute management website/system that allowed 3rd party trucking companies to be notified and to dispute/accept rebills that were assigned to them.  -Responsible for all database interaction; table maintenance, stored procedure creation/alteration, triggers, index maintenance, query tuning, etc.  -Converted schemas and migrated data for multiple databases from Sybase 12.5 to MSSQL 2012, in the range of 500+ tables and 1200+ stored procedures, using both automated and manual methods.  -Developed robust and complex Adhoc reports for repair vendors, railroads, or internal purposes on both Sybase and MSSQL DBMSs.  -Troubleshot, investigated, fixed and enhanced the company's online client and repair vendor portals. Senior Software Developer Pharmanet - Princeton, NJ December 2007 to March 2008 -Led and coordinated IVRS software development and integration projects in compliance with company SOPs.  -Wrote technical specifications including system requirements, design specifications, formal test plans, and application manuals.  -Provided technical support to IVRS users and system administrators.  -Analyzed, designed and implemented custom reports using Oracle. Software Developer Covance - Princeton, NJ November 2004 to December 2007 -Developed and supported over 80+ individual clinical IVRS systems for large pharmaceutical clients.  -Interacted with Project Managers, Validators, DBAs, System and Language Administrators to coordinate rollouts of new/modifications to client systems.  -Maintained data integrity by executing 2500+ singular and global data changes, while following strict SOP guidelines.  -Executed approximately 300+ drug and randomization code loads supplied by clients from various formats for clinical trials.  -Created, prepared, and automated data transfers for clients building SQL scripts and/or stored procedures. Senior Software Developer Genisys Reservations | Ground Travel Technology Team - Hackensack, NJ June 1997 to October 2004 -Developed and maintained back-end application interfaces to the SABRE, Galileo, and Worldspan airline systems, which processed ground transportation requests from corporate travel agents.  -Developed and maintained front-end booking applications used by corporate travel agents using the SABRE and Galileo airline systems.  -Developed and maintained database objects that handled the processing and validation of new, change, and cancel requests.  -Developed and maintained a Ground Transportation Reservation windows application which allowed service providers without integration to view reservations processed by Genisys.  -Provided support to 200+ service providers and 80+ corporate travel agencies that used the system. Technical Support Technician G.T. Interactive Software - Edison, NJ September 1996 to June 1997 Computer Operator Princeton Plasma Physics Laboratory - Princeton, NJ January 1995 to October 1995 Education Associate in Computer Information Systems Devry University - North Brunswick, NJ July 1995 to June 1997 Skills DATABASE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM (10+ years), DBMS (10+ years), CLIENTS (10+ years), FRONT END (10+ years), FRONT END DESIGN (10+ years) Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/bill-stuhldreher