Senior Ruby Developer Senior Ruby <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Ruby Developer - Vanguard Philadelphia, PA * Over 9+ Experience in Ruby developer on large-sc websites leveraging Ruby on Rails-based platform via decoration, extensive use of view models, and additional customer-based customizations.  * Hands on experience on installation and configuration of multiple versions of Ruby using RVM (RubyVersion Manager) bundler install, use of RVM files, Usage of Pre-project Gem sets, Deploy and integration of RVM.  * Comprehensive work experience through all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) starting with project initiation, requirement gathering, requirement analysis, functional design, detail design, development and implementation of multi-tier enterprise, web based and distributed applications.  * Writing Ruby Wrappers and using Ruby Gems for Voucher and Advice modules.  * Experienced in working with teams which are co-located and also lead remote offshore development.  * Refactored the enrolment process based on the new workflow, by applying Ruby state machine gem.  * Ability to develop and deployment of multi-tiered web-based enterprise applications using J2EE technologies like Servlets, JSP, Struts, Hibernate, spring, JDBC, JNDI, IBM MQ Series, JavaBeans and Web services (SOAP)  * Experience in working on Model View Controller (MVC) architecture-based web applications in Ruby on Rails, Backbone.js and Code Igniter.  * Capability in designing the applications by applying OOAD principles and developing UML diagrams, like Use case diagrams, Class diagrams, Sequence diagrams and etc using Rational Rose, Power Designer and Microsoft Visio.  * Wrote various interfaces to the management system in Ruby on Rails and developed back end applications using Ruby on Rails with PostgreSQL as database. architecture of Rails framework and Ruby conducting code reviews.  * Strong experience in development of GUI (Graphical User Interface) using Java swing, JSP, JSTL, Struts, JSP, JSF, Ajax, Rich Faces, Java Script, HTML, DHTML and CSS.  * Experienced in working with IDE Tools like WebSphere Studio Application Developer / Rational Application Developer (RAD/ WSAD), JBuilder and Eclipse.  * Proficient in JRuby, Ruby on Rails implementation in building web applications.  * Worked with several frameworks like Struts, JSF, Hibernate, spring with GUI plug-ins like Tiles Framework, validation plug-ins like Validator Framework.  * Hands-on experience on different kinds of databases Ms-Sql Server, Oracle, DB2, UDB, Mysql, Hypersonic databases and proficiency in writing complex SQL, PL/SQL developed Stored Procedures, Triggers, Functions and Packages.  * Ability to develop and maintain deep understanding of technologies used, both conceptually as well as in the implementation details.  * Excellent analytical, communication, organization and time management skills very good experience in programming & problem solving. Work Experience Senior Ruby Developer Vanguard - Chicago, IL August 2016 to Present Description:  The Vanguard Group, Inc is a privately-owned investment manager. The firm primarily provides its services to investment companies. It also caters to pooled investment vehicles, corporations, individuals, retirement plan sponsors, institutional investors, separate account institutional clients, and financial advisors.    Responsibilities:  * Developed stored procedures compatible with MySQL and MongoDB supportive in Ruby.  * Implemented productive and efficient search and filters for bulk data.  * Worked in the design and development phases as lead of the application using ROR framework.  * Used Rails, AJAX, JSON, CSS and JQUERY to design the front end of the application. Back end of the application is developed mainly using Active Records.  * Developed and tested many features in an AGILE environment using Ruby on Rails, HTML5, CSS JavaScript, Bootstrap, Rspec, and Html.  * Input validations were done using Rails Validation functions.  * Involved in developing and implementation of the web application using Ruby on Rails.  * Implemented and enhanced CRUD operations for the applications using the MVC architecture of Rails framework and Ruby conducting code reviews.  * User Interface for website with ERB, JQuery, RJS, Ruby, Ajax for View, Controller, Model in Ruby on Rails Framework on Mac OS X and Operating System.  * Worked with Active record Classes from Rails Console for Database programming, which also involved writing active record validations.  * Designed and developed the web applications and interface using Ruby, Rails, and AJAX.  * Developed and implemented flagship e-commerce platform using Ruby on Rails and Mongo db.  * Designed and developed the frontend application using Rails, CSS, AJAX and JQuery.  * Wrote ruby scripts for deployments onto AWS and Continuous Integration provisioning.  * Developed web applications with W3C XHTML, HTML5, CSS3 standards and using Ruby, Rails, Git and Heroku.  * Developed stored procedures compatible with MYSQL in ruby.  * Developed solutions using Ruby on Rails and Active Record and integrated gems, plug-in etc.  * Created Ruby on Rails API for Angular front-end mobile home sharing app.  * Created and modified code within a Ruby on Rails-based application  * Ruby on Rails-based platform via decoration, extensive use of view models, and additional customer-based customizations  * Involved in developing and implementation of the Back-end web application using Ruby on Rails.  * Developed site-utilizing Ruby on Rails on Mac OS, upheld by MySQL and Capistrano to automate and facilitate the * Developed site-utilizing Ruby on Rails on Mac OS, upheld by MySQL and Capistrano to automate and facilitate the deployment process on Phusion Passenger server. Utilized RHTML, YAML, RJS and Cascading Style Sheets (CSS) to outline the site pages.  * Developed front end using Angular.js, React.JS, Node.js, bootstrap.js, backbone.js, JavaScript, where back end is java with REST WebServices.  * Worked on the MySQL migration project to make the system completely independent of the database being used. Used Spring IBatis to implement this.  * Involved in Cassandra data modeling going through the phases of creating Conceptual model, Application flow, Logical model, Physical Optimization, Final Physical model.  * Create new PL/SQL stored procedures for new Oracle Forms and Reports development  * Implementing IOC and Dependency Injection features in various aspects of Spring Framework (Core, Web, JDBC, MVC and DAO)  * Used REST WebServices for creating rate summary and used WSDL and SOAP messages for getting insurance plans from different module and used XML parsers for data retrieval  * Configured JMS Server setup and DB Connection pool setup & deployed Returned items in Weblogic.  * Worked on stored procedures, triggers, cursors, DB scheduler, PL/SQL, MySQL and SQL queries  * Developed automation test cases using Java and Junit on Eclipse application.  * Agile/SCRUM was used as the project management methodology and JIRA & Confluence were the tools used to keep things in check.    ENVIRONMENT: RUBY, RAILS, JAVA, J2EE, SPRING, HIBERNATE, RSPEC, REDIS, JSP, ANGULAR.JS, REACT.JS, NODE.JS, BOOTSTRAP.JS. Senior Ruby Developer AT&T Inc - Dallas, TX March 2013 to July 2016 Description:  AT&T Inc. is an American multinational conglomerate holding company headquartered at Whitacre Tower in Downtown Dallas, Texas. AT&T is the world's largest telecommunications company. AT&T is also the second largest provider of mobile telephone services and the largest provider of fixed telephone services in the United States.    Responsibilities:  * Designed, developed and implemented the web application using Ruby on Rails.  * Implemented the application using the concrete principles laid down by several Java/J2EE Design patterns like Business Delegate, MVC, Session Façade, Factory Method, Service Locator, Singleton and Data Transfer Objects (DTO)  * Developed automation test using Ruby, Jruby, Watir-Rspec for Browser testing, and Cucumber in Ruby for SLT.  * Developed website using Ruby on Rails on Unix/Linux operating system, backed by MySQL, Oracle and Mongo db.  * Responsible for writing code in Object Oriented Programming supported by Ruby on Rails in Agile SCRUM environment.  * Implemented Complex data structures (Sorting, Searching, Stack, Queue, and Link List) for Ruby programming as per client specifications.  * Used Rails, AJAX, JSON, jQuery, Node JS and Angular JS to design the front end of the application. Back end of the application is developed mainly using Active Records.  * Ruby on Rails, JavaScript, JQuery, HTML, Behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pair based programming is used to develop client based features and applications.  * Used Rspec and Cucumber to create Test Driven Development (TDD) and Experience with all of the RVM, GEMS and libraries for this version of the Ruby/Rails.  * Implementation of Rails back-end for Case Manager on Linux environment.  * Involved in developing and implementation of the web application using Ruby on Rails.  * Wrote backend programming in Ruby on Rails.  * Database modeling and design. Involved in developing and implementation of the web application using Ruby on Rails.  * Implementing ROR upgrades and patches and publishing Ruby Gems. Using Ruby Gems.  * Involved in Database Migration using Active Records, also involved in using Action Controller, Active Resources, Fixtures and Action View in Rails.  * Wrote various interfaces to the management system in Ruby on Rails  * Wrote Java programs, performed builds, monitored DB2 data and ran SQL.  * Developed user interface using JSP, JSTL and Custom Tag Libraries and AJAX to speed the application.  * Developed SQL queries with PHP Doctrine and Propel to create, retrieve and update data and programming SQL sentences based on CRUD.  * Technology leadership for the direction of the Cloud based application using Node.JS, PDFJS, Sencha, MongoDB and MS SQL Server integrating to a proprietary framework.  * Creation of REST WebServices for the management of data using Apache CXF (JAX-RS)  * Utilized Agile Methodology/Scrum (SDLC) to managed projects and team.  * Used XML WebServices using SOAP to transfer the amount to transfer application that is remote and global to different financial institutions.  * Performed J2EE application deployment using JBoss application server on Windows and Linux  * Performed Unit Testing and developed Unit Test Classes using JUNIT.  * Wrote JUnit test/Integration test cases for asserting functional quality.    ENVIRONMENT: RUBY, RAILS, REDIS, RSPEC, JAVA, J2EE, HIBERNATE, SPRING, ANGULAR.JS, JSP, STRUTS, JDBC, HTML, CSS, JQUERY, JAVASCRIPT, XML, SOAP, PL/SQL, JSF, JMS, JUNIT, EJB, DB2, CRUD, MONGODB. Ruby on Rails Developer ANTHEM INC - Indianapolis, IN November 2011 to February 2013 Description:  Anthem, Inc. is an American health insurance company founded in the 1940s, prior to 2014 known as WellPoint, Inc. It is the largest for-profit managed health care company in the Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association.    Responsibilities:  * Designed the front end of the application using Rails, CSS, HTML, jQuery and JSON.  * Used JSF messages for handling the error messages for the applications  * Preparation of the framework classes for communication between portal to EJB and Hibernate  * Proficient in design and implemented intranet applications using Ruby on Rails and PostgreSQL on Heroku Cloud Packages and Triggers on databases like MySQL, PostgreSQL and Oracle.  * Created data validation scripts for data validation (Ruby)  * Created blog posting tool using Ruby on Rails.  * Developed internationalization testing tools, using Ruby, Python and Visual Basic.  * Coded model level validation using Ruby programming with emphasis in web security.  * Front end expertise using HTML and CSS, and also managing Ruby on Rails layouts and views.  * Developed web presentation layer using jQuery, JavaScript, HTML and CSS according to internal standards and guidelines.  * Used Netbeans for development and WebLogic Application Server for deploying the web application.  * Wrote Servlets programming and JSP scripting for the communication between web browser and server.  * Developed Add, Edit and profile view web pages for the monitor module using JSP, JSF HTML and JSF CORE.  * Involved in writing Spring Configuration XML, file that contains declarations and business classes are wired-up to the frontend managed beans using Spring IOC pattern.  * Deployed this application which uses J2EE architecture model and Struts Framework first on Weblogic and helped in migrating to JBoss Application server.  * Implemented Oracle's coherence cache in our suite of applications.  * Performed J2EE application deployment using JBoss application server on Windows and Linux.  * Developed an application in Java using Oracle ADF framework.  * Created directory structure flow using UNIX to receive and send data to internal and external systems  * Installed Drupal open-source content management system on domain.  * Coded scripts to clean normalize, reformat data for loading into the system using Ruby scripts.    ENVIRONMENT: RUBY ON RAILS, JAVA, SPRING, HIBERNATE, ANGULAR.JS, HTML, MYSQL, SQL SERVER, SWING, UML, JSP, SERVLET, ANT, XML, LINUX, SQL, JIRA. Software Developer The Home Depot Inc - Atlanta, GA April 2009 to October 2011 Description:  The Home Depot Inc. or Home Depot is an American home improvement supplies retailing company that sells tools, construction products, and services.    Responsibilities:  * Involved in all the phases of the project development - requirements gathering, analysis, design, development, coding, testing and debugging.  * Implemented MVC architecture by using Struts to send and receive the data from front-end to business layer. Used apache struts to develop the web-based components and implemented DAO.  * Responsible for writing Struts Action classes.  * Implemented Struts framework in the presentation tier for all the essential control flow, business level validations and for communicating with the business layer.  * Leveraged struts-validations, struts-beans tag libraries. Used struts ActionServlet to route the request to corresponding Action Classes. Developed Action forms, Action classes using Struts framework to handle user requests and Implemented Struts Bean Tags, Logical Tags and Display Tags in JSP.  * Involved in developing DAO layer using JDBC.  * Involved in developing Stateless and Stateful session beans using EJB.  * Implemented the Design Patterns like Session Façade, Data Transfer Object (DTO), Service Locator and Data Access Object (DAO)  * Used Serena PVCS for version control management and consistently produced high quality code through disciplined and rigorous unit testing.  * Used WebLogic Application Server for building, testing and deploying application locally.  * Involved in bug fixes, enhancements and code refactoring.    ENVIRONMENT: JAVASCRIPT, NODE.JS, HTML, CSS, JAVA, SPRING, WEBLOGIC AND HIBERNATE. Software Developer AMEX - New York, NY July 2007 to March 2009 Description:  The American Express Company, also known as Amex, is an American multinational financial services corporation headquartered in Three World Financial Center in New York City. The company was founded in 1850, and is one of the 30 components of the Dow Jones Industrial Average. The company is best known for its credit card, charge card and traveler's check businesses.    Responsibilities:  * Followed Scrum Incremental process of Agile Software Development methodology, also involved in creating stories in JIRA.  * Implemented SOA (Service Oriented Architecture) and consumed JAX-WS web services using Apache CXF framework with SOAP messages for transferring ticket from UET to SCR.  * Implemented message queue using Apache ActiveMQ to hold payload until the SCR consumes the message.  * Wrote several restful websevice using Restlet framework andn SOAP webserivce with TOP DOWN approach.  * Developed common XML schema's (XSD) as client contracts used to publish Top Down approach based Web Services  * Configured routes in Apache Camel using Blueprint xml for routing messages between end points.  * Used JAXB marshall/unmarshall XML by taking XML schema and converting to class and reading XML files to create the instances of the class.  * Used SOAP-UI to test the SOAP Web Services using WSDL.  * Written build scripts for multi-project build using Gradle.  * Written Gradle script to create OSGI bundles.    ENVIRONMENT: HTML, CSS, JAVASCRIPT, MERCURIAL, MS SQL SERVER. Education Bachelor's