Software Developer/Engineer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span>/Engineer Software Developer/Engineer - UNICOMP USA LTD Atlanta, GA A Software Engineer/ Developer with extensive full life cycle of software development knowledge including: designing, coding, testing, maintenance and debugging. Possess diversified technical background with Enterprise System Solution and Information Technology. I have the ability to implement technologies that decrease cost and increase performances. Work Experience Software Developer/Engineer UNICOMP USA LTD November 2017 to Present Technologies Used  PostgreSQL C++, ADO. Net, Web Services, SQL/PLSQL C#, ASP.NET, Java, MFC, Visual C++, SQL Server,Micro Database Programming, MVC, API, CI/CD, HTML,  XHTML, XML, XSLT, XSL, CSS, SQL, NoSQL, SQL Server,PostgreSQLJSON  jQuery, WebAPI, Bootstrap, and Structured JavaScript    ? Interact with customers and development team to gather and define requirements. Analyze and study customer requirements to determine the most effective software and web technologies to satisfy their needs. Design, create, test, and maintain software and web based applications and content solutions to satisfy customer requirements. Design and develop visually-pleasing, user-friendly interfaces with intuitive navigation. Provide software process management and configuration management throughout the software/web development lifecycle. Consistently writes, translates, and help code software programs and applications according to specifications and standards.  ? Develop Test Plans and build Test strategies for different types of applications, technologies, for testing Functional and Regression testing of most of the company projects. Write and do Test Planning, Unit testing, Integration Testing, Functional and Non Functional testing  • Design and develop many types of software, including computer games, business applications, and network control systems. Create project documentation suite, design logical data model and implement relational database (SQL, ODBC), develop and execute test scenarios, write and execute complex joins using SQL, PL/SQL T-SQL of DML command such as SELECT, UPDATE, INSERT, COUNT, GROUP BY, HAVING, etc. and DDL commands for test data schema creation. Update and maintain the following Systems: STIMS,TAFS and BMS  * Report test results and entered problems into the bug database (JIRA System). Create and integrate automated testing into deployment pipeline (CI)/ (CD) Responsible for specifying, designing and testing programs, implement and maintain database applications. Design, develop, and implement and maintain database applications.  * Test the speed and scalability of new changes to the APIs and preview API performance behavior before releasing to production environments. Participates in meeting with stakeholders, decision makers, project sponsors, systems owners, and end users to define business requirements and system goals. Participate Software Development including; Requirements Analysis and Definition, High-level and Detailed Design and Coding that focuses on enhancing business applications.  * Managing and supporting multiple projects by reviewing requirements and provided input to ensure they are testable. Code web design interfaces using Java, XML, XSL, AJAX, and JWS. Code and support provided through ASP.NET, T-SQL, Microsoft SQL Server, and Collaborate in the development of in-house development of new banking software interfaces. Support software development in coding, reviewing program functionality, establishing system improvements and testing. Support software and web architecture development, requirements' analysis, process execution, evaluation and integration (with both new and legacy systems).    * Join the team in planning, designing, and development of new applications and enhancements to existing applications, resolve business systems issues and develops project plans. Reviews and analyzes the effectiveness and efficiency of existing systems and develops strategies for improving or further leveraging these systems.  * Participates in code reviews and continual application improvement meetings whiles I demonstrate design techniques in staff meetings: Investigates and resolves complex issues. Provides user and system documentation using techniques such as flow charts, diagrams, specifications, etc. Develops feasibility review for new ideas relevant to the assigned areas with full functional specification definitions, including cost/benefit and program operation impact assessments. Designs data base tables and determines field content needs, size and characteristics, etc .Run and monitor software performance tests for the purposes of correcting errors, isolating problems, and recommending improvements. Performs other related duties as required. Software Engineer/Quality Assurance Engineer Maximus November 2011 to October 2017 Technologies Used  Selenium, Cucumber, C++, ADO. Net, Web Services, SQL/PLSQL C#, ASP.NET, Java, MFC, Visual C++, Micro Database Programming, MVC, SQL/PLSQL API, CI/CD, Visual Basic  Visual Studio TestNG, JUnit, C# with NUnit,MVC.    • Develop and maintain test automation framework using Selenium, Cucumber in Java platform to test Web Applications, Java Services. Develop Test Plans and build Test strategies for different types of applications, technologies, using Selenium tool for testing Functional and Regression testing of most of the company projects. Write and do Test Planning, Unit testing, Integration Testing, Functional and Non Functional testing.  • Responsible for both Automation and Manual Testing.Worked with the Product Development team to analyze requirements and test cases to gather the information needed to automate scenarios and test cases. Working closely with the Automation Architect to research, modify and maintain the automated framework and coding standards, as well collaborate with members of DevOps to setup, create, and edit continuous integration jobs for automated testing.  • Experience using object-oriented design principles, design patterns, and refactoring techniques to create readable and maintainable code. I have the ability to integrate new libraries, concepts, and processes to help drive the integration of automation testing onto product development teams.  ? With LoadUI Pro, I was able to: Test the speed and scalability of new changes to the APIs  ? Preview API performance behaviors before releasing to production environments  • Completed the updating of Saief360 ( Software Application System) and stored procedures. Developed Data Model for the following: DHAP (Division of HIV and AIDS Prevention)-FAAS (FOA Applicant Approval System), DHAP-CBA2009 and DHAP-STAR (Suspense Tracking and Routing) applications. Designed and developed CRIS (CBA Request Information System) Product Design and Specification Document, and Defect Metrics. Participate in a team-oriented environment to evaluate requirements and ensure requirements are met and tested.  • Responsible for execution of tests; troubleshoot newly developed and existing software products, or systems; assignments include creating test plans and test cases. Conduct tests, and document results of tests; verify that products and software operated as designed; recommend and implement proposed solutions to resolve reported problems. Reviewed requirements and provide input to ensure they are testable. Test software releases during product development. Report test results and entered problems into the bug database (JIRA System).  • Monitored and updated bug reports as needed including bug report closure, research, evaluation, development, and application of new processes and test methodologies.  • Developed test plans, strategies, and use cases for application features, requirements, or problem reports based on practices and procedures. Conduct Fault isolation, troubleshooting and root cause analysis activities, execution of QA and testing processes, test strategies and plans, bug documentation and regression, and bug tracking system development Work collaboratively with developers and other team members in testing complex projects and in the overall enhancement of software product quality. Responsible for analyzing functional specs for completeness and testability analyzing test output identifying discrepancies and clearly documenting defects.  • Designed and developed Product Design and Specification Document, and Defect Metrics.  • Test software releases during product development Software Developer UPS-FINANCIAL SERVICE CENTER - Roswell, GA January 2011 to November 2011 Technologies Used  HTML, XML, XSLT, CSS, Micro Database Programming, SQL/PLSQL C#, ASP.NET, MFC  Java, C#, HTML, ASP.net, VB.Net, JavaScript, XSL, XML, MS SQL, CSS Visual C++,    • Designed, wrote requirement documents, developed UML diagrams and developed FSC dashboard for the various Accounts:  ? Accounts Payable: All monies paid into UPS Accounts for the week  ? Purchasing: Everything paid on behave of UPS  ? Help Desk: Total activities within the company for the week  ? Operating Tax: All taxes from various departments  ? Fuel Services: The total amount of Fuel used during the week  ? GDSS Department: The Global Department Store within UPS Summit dates.    • . Maintained legacy software such as PO Closures, Supply Search and Pay Authorization.  • Designed, wrote requirement documents, developed another FSC dashboard for the various areas:  ? Number of Black Employees  ? Number of White Employees  ? Number of Latino Employees  ? Number of Disabilities Employees  ? Others  • Worked with C#, HTML, ASP.net, VB.Net, JavaScript, VBScript, XSL, XML, MS SQL Server and CSS to develop a Dashboard Application that computed and displayed hired employees by sex, race, occupation, retired, or promoted within a particular time frame.  • Developed the N-Tier application using C#, Vb.NET, ASP.NET with SQL Server back end Database.  • Created project documentation suite, designed logical data model and implemented relational database (SQL, ODBC), developed and implemented internationalization strategies (Visual C++, MFC), and developed and executed test scenarios.  • Trained other staffs how to use the application.  • Conducted software analysis, system risks analysis, identifying code metrics and analysis of software reliability.  • Designed and implemented the application that meets the user's requirements document. Embedded Software Engineer LOCKHEED MARTIN AERO - Marietta, GA July 2005 to April 2010 Technologies Used  HTML, XHTML, XML, XSLT, XSL, CSS, SQL/PLSQL C#, ASP.NET, Ada, LINQ, Java. C++    • Developed the Data Viewer software, which provided an environment for the user to graphically plot view of processed data, associated with downloaded Digital Flight Data Recorder data as well as recorded aircraft data on the post flight Removable Memory Module (RMM).  • Participated in database creation and coding of window form and web form using C# and VB.NET.  • Worked with HTML, ASP.net, JavaScript, VBScript, XSL, XML, MS SQL Server and CSS to develop Help Projects application that generated help assembles for the Data Transfer and Diagnostic System.  • Developed Block 6.1 variants of Mission Computer- Avionics Modernization Program code set for Royal Air Force (UK), United States Air Force, Royal Australian Air Force, and Royal. Danish Air Force and Royal Norwegian Air Force using the 'Exceed 'to access the Unix Server (Airlift).  • Participated Data Transfer and Diagnostic System's Software Development including; Requirements Analysis and Definition, High-level and Detailed Design, Coding, Test Planning, Unit testing, and Integration Testing.  • Participated in C++ code reviews for the Joint Strike Fighter Panoramic Cockpit Display System at L3 Communications.  • Designed, wrote requirements documents, developed UML diagrams for the Mission Computer of the following: Poor Configuration speed limit monitoring and IPRA Beacon Symbol Display; Expansion of TOLD Temperature Performance Data, Expansion of TOLD Temperature Performance Data and IFF (identification, friend or foe) Transponder Mode 5.  • Lead a team that developed the WinAppTwo, a system that retrieved data from LMPeople database (oracle database), created a temporary database, a table within the new created database, a stored procedure, a view, and populated data into the new created table and generates reports.  • Conducted software analysis, software review, system risks analysis, identifying code metrics and analysis of software reliability.  • Trained other staffs and wrote manual for the future references.  • Maintained standard compliance. Education Master of Science (MS) in (Graduate Research Assistance) 2nd Kennesaw State University - Kennesaw, GA 2007 Bachelor of Science in Computer Science Kennesaw State University - Kennesaw, GA 2005 Skills Api, Applications development, C#, C++, Cucumber, Desktop applications, Html, Javascript, Bootstrap, Json, Vb.net, Visual basic, Visual c++, Xml, Xsl, Xslt, Ado, Database, Ado.net, Microsoft sql server, Git, Android, ASP, MySQL