Sr. Software Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Software Developer - AccuView Inc Princeton, NJ Java, J2EE, JavaScript, Python, Node.js, Ruby, React, PL/SQL, Spring MVC, RESTful Web Services, HTML5, CSS, JSON, Docker, Kafka, jQuery, XML, SQL, AngularJS, SOAP, Ajax, JUnit, Unix, Git, SVN, Mercurial, Bitbucket, Jenkins, Control- M, Oracle, SQL Server, MySQL, NoSQL, Agile, Hadoop, AWS. Work Experience Sr. Software Developer AccuView Inc November 2018 to Present Build API and deploy CRM for connecting the applications for manufacturing, warehouse, and product teams. Develop  system applications using Java, FileMaker, JavaScript, and Node.js. Accomplishments  • Built and managed the CRM applications that increasing 1.2% of the business revenue in Q1.  • Developed the API and integration of applications cross international teams. Software Engineer JP Morgan Chase & Co January 2018 to October 2018 Managed VIP Card systems using Java 8, Oracle, Teradata, Jenkins, Bitbucket and Control-M. Developed automated unit and integration tests using Mockito and REST-assured. Built Cards Treatment Application (CTA) for fraudulent transaction detection to enhance and secure client business.  Accomplishments  • Adopted application automation to establish a Daily Exceptions Report for JPMorgan business analysis. Automated reports saved business as $435,000 each quarter.  • Architected and led legacy the migration and integration of legacy applications cross three data hub centers. Improved the bug reports down 10.6 % from stockholders.  • Built 12 CARD-RISK batch applications with international teams increasing 1.4% of the business revenue in Q2 and Q3.  • Developed new procedures for requirements gathering, needs analysis, testing, scripting and documentation to strengthen quality and functionality of business-critical application. Software Engineer Fiber Mountain August 2016 to December 2017 Built the Glass Core solution allowing unprecedented visibility and agility within data center, using JSON and MySQL.  Improved day-to-day management of data center operations and speeding up the resolution of unplanned downtime, security threats and conformance requests. Designed front end and back end applications using RESTful and JavaFX for North-Bound Systems.  Accomplishments  • Researched and designed user-friendly GUI, managing the systems that saved 1% in shipping costs and deployment.  • Led multi-talented developers to re-engineer processes for the FMSDX platforms for physical layer mapping with Intelligent Breakout Patch Panels, reducing delivery time of new product from one month to one week. Software Engineer AccuView Inc May 2014 to August 2016 Designed platform models for enterprise web applications using JSP, Ajax, Struts Action, Struts, and Ajax tag libraries.  Managed system test script entities with CRUD using Java 7, Jprofiler, JUnit and SOAP. Accomplishments  • Architected the new distribution scheduling systems that saved 8% in shipping costs in second quarter.  • Re-engineered Java web service to improve efficiency by 32.4 %, creating single- and multi-named derivatives  reporting pipeline and eliminated reconciliation points to reduce time to file from 2 weeks to 4 days. Software Engineer Comcast May 2015 to November 2015 Designed Xfinity platform web applications using Java 8, Spring, React, Ruby on Rails, and Angular. Conducted Agile methodology, using Test Driven Development (TDD) to develop web applications. Leveraged RESTful services and Java micro services using Node.js and Docker. Implemented client side validations using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and jQuery. Accomplishments  • Built Spring Security to manage user authentication and authorization for My Xfinity, bringing less than 8% user  stories from production reports.  • Designed a high performance Enterprise Service platform and middleware using Java, Spring to offer PortalDS users'  experience.  • Conducted Agile software methodology, following Test Driven Development (TDD) to develop application that reduced the project deliveries from three weeks to 10 days. Localization Engineer A2Z Global Inc June 2013 to February 2014 Developed web applications to handle complicated translations using SQL Server and Trados. Constructed translation  form files and merged the translation API. Provided technical support to international teams. Accomplishments  • Managed applications to customize client's requests, reducing the cycle time from 10 days to 6 days.  • Created new file preparation approach that reduced 30% of project costs. Application Support Engineer eSpoc Inc August 2010 to April 2013 Developed enterprise management medical billing applications using Java, PL/SQL, AngularJS, Mercurial and Oracle. Leveraged a wide range of functional enhancements and performance improvements to the monitoring system. Accomplishments  • Built and delivered data transfer which insurances payer mapping solutions customized for more than 150 clients and increased efficiency by reducing 3.5 days of cycle time.  • Leveraged existing solutions and created validation processes under ANSI 837 5010 to reduce the rate of rejection by medical payers which increased monthly collections from $5.4 to $8.1 million. Software Developer XTrials Research Services August 2007 to June 2009 Led the initiatives to design Infuse eClinical platform using Oracle, Java and 21 CFR PART. Implemented the clinical trial and e-submission systems with Java in back end and .NET in front end. Accomplishments  • Managed releases into production, which resulted in 65% increase of client satisfaction and cut costs 75% by using open source software. Software Support Developer enfoTech & Consulting Inc August 2006 to July 2007 Involved in full life cycle of the projects. Implemented high frequency functionality in N-Tiered applications using C#. Delivered iPACS application to manage a comprehensive industrial waste control programs using .NET framework. Accomplishments  • Implemented Industrial waste control program with 6% savings on resources and costs. Research Assistant New Jersey Institute of Technology September 2004 to June 2006 Designed SmartCampus (Link) Project with Java location server for client real-time location storage and updates.  Accomplishments  • The server robustly connected average 6,000 multithreaded clients per time unit.  • The Top 5 NJIT Graduate Projects of the Year. Education Master of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science New Jersey Institute of Technology - Newark, NJ January 2002 to January 2004 Skills AngularJS (2 years), Java (10+ years), Oracle (5 years), PL/SQL (2 years), SQL (3 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Java, J2EE, JavaScript, Python, Node.js, Ruby, React, PL/SQL, Spring MVC, RESTful Web Services, HTML5, CSS, JSON, Docker, Kafka, jQuery, XML, SQL, AngularJS, SOAP, Ajax, JUnit, Unix, Git, SVN, Mercurial, Bitbucket, Jenkins, Control- M, Oracle, SQL Server, MySQL, NoSQL, Agile, Hadoop, AWS.