Senior Programmer Senior Programmer Senior Programmer Houston, TX ? 15+ years of extensive experience in Software Development Life Cycle, including System study, Analysis, Design, Development, Installation and Maintenance using Microsoft Technologies.  ? Developed strong analytic and problem solving aptitude and attitude.  ? 15+ years of development experience in C, C++, .Net, MFC, C#, VC++, COM/DCOM.  ? Proficient in MS Visual studio 6.0, 8.0, 9.0, 10.0, 12.0.  ? Have worked extensively on Real time, Multi-threaded large scale Data Gathering and processing applications.  ? Designed and developed server side for iOS application using WebRTC for peer to peer communication.  ? Collaborate extensively with Tech Partners for problem solving and R & D work.  ? Have worked extensively on parser (using Lex and Yacc). Developed parser and compiler engines for IEC languages.  ? Developed a solid understanding of Object Oriented Design, for enterprise wide client/server applications development in multi-tiered environments.  ? Experience in creating Windows forms, User Controls, Custom Controls.  ? Experience of working with a number of third party tools to facilitate windows based application development.  ? Excellent communication, interpersonal, time-management skills as well as a great team player.  ? Strong academic skills combined with hands on software industry experience. Work Experience Senior Programmer Carbo - Houston, TX November 2008 to Present Fracpro is industry leading fracture simulation software which offers unparalleled capability, versatility and real world performance. In addition to its thorough built-in libraries, Fracpro can capture data and be calibrated in real time, allowing users to customize models for their specific application.  I started as software developer in Fracpro team but I have grown to Solution Architect role now.    Responsibilities: ? Conceptualize, Design and Implement 3D grid based reservoir simulator. It allows user to import 3D reservoir/earth models, define 3D grid reservoir, provide tools to upscale/ downscale the reservoir data. It also allows user to visualize the reservoir grid, manipulate and process various aspects.  ? Conceptualized and Designed Fracture Database product. This product involves data basing fracture job in real time. Once fracture job is complete it allows comparative analysis, data cleaning as well as integrating fracturing data with production data.  ? Implemented several 3D data processing models for reservoir and fracture simulator.  ? Designed and Implemented modules to connect Fracpro to any 3rd party system and acquire data in real time and in different formats.  ? Designed and implemented the software license module for Fracpro. Process involved evaluating several vendors, evaluating different vendor products for our product needs and implementing the selected vendor.  ? Designed and developed server side application for iOS application using WebRTC for peer to peer real time communication.  ? Designed and Implemented real time data acquisition server for Fracpro.  ? Partnering with different vendors for protocol/data exchange discussions and decisions for seamless data transfer.  ? Handling technical aspects for Client & Board presentations of the software.  ? Collaborate with University and other vendors to provide highly optimized solution for several real world problems.  ? Collaborate with clients in design & requirement discussion and implement optimized scalable solution.  ? Collaborate with clients for problem resolving and best practices.    Environment/Tools:  C++, MFC, C#, MS VS 2015, FORTRAN, OpenGL. Programmer Analyst Verizon wireless - Temple Terrace, FL November 2007 to October 2008 Project: Home network Management System  Verizon Wireless owns and operates the second largest wireless telecommunications network in the United States, based on total wireless customers. This project involves developing prototype for Home network Management system. This project involves developing an ActiveX control which should detect various Verizon network elements like Router, Set top box, Computer etc in the network. It should then enable the customer to do diagnostics of these nodes and reconfigure them if needed.    Responsibilities: ? Worked on gathering the requirement and communicating those effectively.  ? Responsible for developing and designing the prototype.  ? Developed the modules for network discovery and implementing different command sets on different nodes.  ? Worked on various web automation tools like SAHI, AutoIT.  ? Involved with unit testing of the developed modules.    Environment/Tools:  C++, C#, MS VS 2005 (.Net), SAHI, AutoIT, Linux Programmer Analyst Infosys Tech. Ltd - Kingwood, TX March 2005 to November 2007 Project: Reservoir Monitoring System  Weatherford International Ltd is one of the world's largest diversified upstream oilfield services company. The company provides one of the industry's broadest portfolios of services and products: drilling, evaluation, completion, production and intervention. This project involves developing various new tools and maintaining the existing components of RMS suite. Currently we are developing an editor tools which enables the programmers to write script, which is then validated by Lex/Parser module. It then executes these script file and publishes the output.    Responsibilities: ? Worked on gathering the requirement and communicating those effectively.  ? Responsible for understanding and designing communication layer for different hardware components application interacts with.  ? Responsible for designing and reviewing designs for various tools in the RMS tool suite.  ? Designed and developed various modules using VC++ for the application which includes COM/DCOM components in Microsoft VS 6.0.  ? Developed a trace analyzing tool using C# in Microsoft VS 2005(.Net).  ? Wrote Lex and Yacc files for the core engine used for our OPC client/server program.  ? Connecting to the database using MS ADO and use RecordSet to read the result sets and creating custom objects with the required data.  ? Identified, tuned and eliminated code and database performance bottle necks to improve application performance.  ? Involved with unit testing of the developed modules and also integrated testing with other modules.    Environment/Tools:  C++, C#, COM/DCOM, MS VS 2005 (.Net),MS VS 6.0, MS ADO, Microsoft Visual SourceSafe 6.0, MYSQL Software developer Infosys Tech. Ltd September 2004 to March 2005 Project: EMC  EMC Corporation is the world's leading developer and provider of information infrastructure technology and solutions. It help organizations of every size around the world keep their most essential digital information protected, secure, and continuously available. The project involved developing a tool for viewing, searching and retrieving media stored in Avalon archive server. This also involved maintaining a database for every transaction made on archive server. We also developed a synchronization tool which helps in making archive server consistent with the database.    Responsibilities: ? Designed and developed the application using 3 tier architecture with separate web logic, common and data layers.  ? Designed and implemented the core modules to archive data, Meta data and their dependency in the archive server in C++.  ? Designed and implemented group policies on archive server in C++.  ? Designed database tables and wrote queries for saving, searching and retrieving data.  ? Worked with MS ADO data connections.  ? Maintained the project with various enhancements and additions.  ? Was responsible for unit and integration testing.    Environment/Tools:  C++, VS 6.0, MS VS 2005 (.Net), MS ADO, Oracle, Solaris, Microsoft Visual SourceSafe 6.0 Software developer Infosys Tech. Ltd March 2004 to August 2004 Project: MSim  Wavecom is the leader for pre-packaged wireless communications solutions for automotive, industrial and mobile professional applications, with a wide range of fully integrated modules and modems. The project involved removing the dependency of various tools used by Wavecom for testing and development from the hardware. My role involved simulating the hardware memory which was done by using a memory file which then stores all the memory content and hence simulates memory. We also developed a tool which can be used to program dongle for Wavecom specific requirements.    Responsibilities: ? Designed and developed the application to simulate the hardware in C++.  ? Maintained the project with various enhancements and additions.  ? Was responsible for unit and integration testing.    Environment/Tools:  C++, Microsoft VS 6.0, Microsoft Visual SourceSafe 6.0 Software developer Infosys Tech. Ltd August 2003 to February 2004 Project: AvalonGW  EMC Corporation is the world's leading developer and provider of information infrastructure technology and solutions. It help organizations of every size around the world keep their most essential digital information protected, secure, and continuously available. The project involved integration of Avid workgroup components with Avalon data storage software Avalon-IDm. The middleware developed by us enables saving huge media files used by Avid component to Avalon managed storage systems.    Responsibilities: ? Designed and developed using multiple layered approach.  ? Designed the core module to parse the XML files, which has all configuration and command information.  ? Designed the framework which accepts request, triggers actions and maintains the application status.  ? Implemented the parser for XML files.  ? Used third party tools like Mozilla file server for ftp.  ? Maintained the project with various enhancements and additions.  ? Was responsible for unit and integration testing.    Environment/Tools:  C, VC++, Microsoft VS 6.0, Microsoft Visual SourceSafe 6.0 Education B. Tech in Info. Technology GGSIPU University - Delhi, Delhi 1999 to 2003 Skills C (10+ years), C+ (10+ years), Mfc (10+ years), Open gl (10+ years), Opengl. (10+ years)