Sitecore Developer Sitecore <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sitecore Developer - Com-net Software Columbus, OH • 10 years of Information Technology experience in analysis, design, development, implementation and testing with around 3+ years of experience as sitecore developer.  • Strong working experience in developing distributed applications leveraging C#. NET, VB.NET, ASP.NET MVC, Razor Engine, sitecoreCMS, ADO.NET, WPF, Silverlight, WCF, Web Services, Windows Services, SQL Server, Oracle, AJAX, AngularJS, and Java Script.  • Well acquainted with various tools and technologies such as SVN, StarTeam, Fiddler, TFS and VSS, GIT (SourceTree), JIRA, Slack, Visual Studio 2008/10/13/15.  • Experience in building highly Mobile Responsive Design websites with .NET based Content Management Systems (CMS) such as sitecoreCMS.  • Expertise in working with cloud computing using Windows Azure and SQL Server Azure.  • Good experience in working with Team Development for sitecore (TDS) for check-in and working with multiple developers together.  • Good foundation with a strong knowledge of Object Oriented Programming principles and Object Oriented Design Patterns including ASP.NET MVC.  • Extensive experience in developing, analyzing, designing, mission-critical web applications using .NET framework 2.0/3.5/4.0/4.5.  • Familiar with all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including requirements gathering, analysis, design, development, testing, UAT and production.  • Deft in creating SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS) & Crystal Reports using business intelligence development studio and integrating the same with the website design.  • Expertise in troubleshooting and problem solving with proven ability to design and develop reliable data driven applications.  • Adept in working with SQL Server database design, database maintenance, developing T-SQL queries, stored procedures and triggers using SQL Server 2000/05/08/12.  • Expertise in debugging an application using the debugging tools provided by the Visual Studio.NET IDE.  • Solid Experience with Data Accessing using Data Adapter, Data Reader and Dataset in  • ADO.NET and Language Integrated Query (LINQ) Providers for data manipulation.  • Strong understanding of OOP Concepts and good knowledge of common DesignPatterns.  • Expert in Healthcare/Pharmacy, Travel and hospitality Billing solutions and services.  • Experienced with using Source Code Version Control Systems like CVS, MS Visual  • Source Safe (VSS) and TFS (Team Foundation Server).  • Experience in creating Test Cases and performing Unit Testing, Integration Testing and  • Functional Testing.  • Experience of creating and Integrating REST- full API / Web Services for Websites.  • Optimized code development, securing the application and re-factoring the code.  • Hands-on experience in using different software methodologies like Waterfall, Agile, Scrum and Test-driven.  • Extensive working experience in Sitecore platforms like Web Content Management.  • Have Strong CMS experience (Content management system) .Net Nuke, Sitecore7, 8Development experience.  • Experienced in Sitecore CMS Solutions to design .Net application features and expertise  • In create/install Packages, Personalization, Pipeline, TDS and Glass Mapper. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sitecore Developer Com-net Software July 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in redesigning the website setup with Sitecore 8.2 and .NET technologies using SCRUM Methodology.  • Developed websites using Sitecore 8.2 platform by creating layouts, components and templates.  • Developed View, Control rendering components in MVC.  • Utilized Sitecore CMS solutions to design .Net application features.  • Performed Sitecore data imports and exports by generating XML.  • Worked on Sitecore Analytics database to analyze the Site Visits, site value, Site traffic and generated custom reports.  • Created Stored Procedures in SQL Server and used them in custom report generation.  • Hands-on Experience in developing applications in .NET framework using Visual Studio.  • Working with TDS (Hedgehog) & glass mapper to access Sitecore items in the code.  • One of the few people having admin access to be able to perform and implement updates /configuration changes for all server environments.  • Developed Header and Footer Layout using Sitecore.  • Used Multi site languages for all Sitecore sites.  • Used Sitecore publish/sync mechanism to publish to production.  • Client and server side validations using JavaScript and Validation Controls and performing the tasks related  Database issues.  • Provided QA and Production Support.  • Worked on XML/JSON and using 3rd party api's.  • Experienced interfacing with XML and JSON documents for data transmission.  • Developed a defined request-response message system, typically expressed in JSON or XML, which is exposed via the web - most commonly by means of an HTTP-based web server by a server-side Asp.NET web API. Define and execute Unit tests using MS Test.  • Implementing Client-side validations using AngularJS, JSON and ASP.NET MVC Validation implemented at Controller level. Involved in creating rich and interactive UI using CSS, JavaScript, Ajax, and Angular JS.  • Used WPF in creating different animated scenes using the combination of transforms, animation  • controls (storyboard, double animation) and color effects.  • Implemented WPF in creating custom controls, 3D graphics.  • Worked with Type 1 and 2 dimensions, fact tables, star schema design, Operational Data Store  • (ODS) and other data warehouse concepts.  • Implemented complex business logic using C# entity-object model in the process of re-  • engineering one of the existing modules.  • Designed the front-end user interface by using Asp.Net, HTML and Telerik RAD Ajax controls.  • Built, manipulated, edited and repurpose word press plug-in in accordance to customer needs.  • Expert in user interface development WPF and XAML.  • Developed Web Services, which can be used by a number of clients in getting useful data.  • Worked with WCF Service Contracts, Data Contracts, Operation Contracts, Instance Modes andSecurity of the services.  • Used Ajax Controls for calendar control and free text box controls on the UI.  • Converted Applications from VB.NET (Win Forms) to Web Forms(C#).  • Created Database objects like Tables, Stored Procedures and Triggers using Oracle 10g.  • Used XML/XSLT for data transformation and worked on windows forms.  • Designed and developed reports using SSRS depending upon the input parameters.  • Responsible for maintaining versions of source code using Team Foundation Server.  • Have arranged Live Meetings, Conference Calls in case situation demands for resolving issues.  • Involved in developing small tools using SQL, which would automate certain time, framedactivities (which were earlier done manually) and hence improve the productivity of our team.    Environment: Sitecore 8.2, Glass Mapper, Source tree (GIT), TFS, TDS, VSTS, Visual Studio, C#, .NET framework, MVC, LINQ, ADO.NET, HTML, CSS3, ASP.NET, JavaScript, Microsoft SQL Server 2012. Sitecore Developer First tech federal credit union June 2016 to July 2018 Sr. Sitecore Developer Cargill - Wichita, KS May 2014 to June 2016 Environment: Sitecore 8.1, Glass Mapper, Solr 5.5, Source tree (GIT), TFS, TDS, Visual Studio 2013, Razor View Engine, C#, MVC, Sitecore, Windows Azure, Mongo DB    Cargill, Wichita, KS May2014-Jun2016  Sr. Sitecore Developer    Responsibilities:  • Developed smartly architected web applications that utilize cutting edge technology and practices using Sitecore CMS.  • Project planning and delivering.  • Created Web application architecture using MVC and C#, AJAX, and LINQ.  • Content Management System (CMS) experience with Sitecore CMS.  • Contribute towards the creation of product design to be agreed with Project Manager.  • Write quality source code to be delivered on time, which meets defined project standards using the .NET and SQL server technologies.  • Interacted with IS and CRM teams to gather the toblerone.co.uk site migration requirements.  • Experience in interacting with MS CRM database through the use of web service methods  • Experience in operations like data migrations and updating using LINQ and XRM that help in facilitating data migration within CRM across various entities. Hands on knowledge of implementing and maintaining access controls in CRM based on roles and access conditions  • Extensive understanding of and experience with relational data modeling (SQL Server).  • Developed web page with MVC, Asp.net, JavaScript, CSS and validation is done using JavaScript.  • Worked on Lucene and SOLR search engine used in Sitecore CMS for indexing and searching the contents of a Web site.  • Performed Unit Testing on source code where required, prior to handover to test / quality.  • Performed maintenance on source code; analyzing and fixing bugs were necessary, whether they are raised internally or in the field.  • Used Team Foundation Server (TFS) forsource code managing andversion controlling.  • Part of Sitecore 7.0 to Sitecore 8.x migration team; supported native content migration and servers during upgradation process.  • Provided training and guidance on Sitecore development to other developers.  • Adhere to Confidentiality and Security Policy and all other requirements concerning the policy.  • Developed CSS, SASS styles on all the pages of the application, and positioning of objects etc.  • Knowledge Transition to QA Team, PO/PM in UAT during testing and validations.    Environment: Sitecore, MVC, C#.NET, ASP.NET, SQL Server 2012, HTML5, SASS, SCSS, JavaScript, ADO.NET, Web Services, AJAX, AGILE methodology, CSS, XML, JQuery, GitHub. Sitecore Developer Cargill - Minneapolis, MN April 2012 to May 2014 Responsibilities:  • Involved in designing the Sitecore Information Architecture for the sprint requirements.  • Involved in Re-Design and developed Data Access layer, Business layer and Application layer (user interface) for the web application.  • Develop .NET web-based applications using Web Forms, MVC, and Web API with a SQL  • Server back-end to replace all legacy applications with modular apps that provide internal customers flexible and on-demand access to critical performance data, and a reduction in ad-hoc development requests of nearly 50%.  • Created new MVC controller renderings in Sitecore.  • Created new pipelines for implementing custom 404-page implementation.  • Created custom Sitecore workflow to authorize the content as per the business team.  • Created custom Email Actions for workflow to trigger emails to users for the content approval.  • Conducted routine maintenance tasks to debug errors and restore functionality of applications.  • Evaluated completed developmental tasks to ensure compliance with specified standards.  • Hands-on Experience developing applications in 4.5 Framework using Visual Studio 2013.  • Development using standards- compliant, efficient and optimized ASP, ASP.NET, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, HTML, XHTML, XML, XSLT and backend programming with MS SQL server, MS - Access.  • Created customized rule data rendering to change the components dynamically based on rules.  • Integrated Coveo search API to develop search operations in Sitecore web applications.  • Developing View, Control rendering components in MVC.  • Configured global level cache for rendering in Sitecore.  • Working with TDS (Hedgehog) & glass mapper to access Sitecore items in the code.  • Used Forms Authentication and created custom Authorization Policy (Role Based Access).  • Attended sprint grooming and planning meetings to get the requirements and translated customer.  • Design and development of various stored procedures to Fetch, Update and Insert data.  • Design the testing process and unit testing.  • Developed the smart form in CMS to upload the content from External Application.  • Developed Windows based application with CMS400.NET.  • Developed the custom events for the user like Calendar, Photos, Colleagues, and Communities.  • Developed the Ecommerce applications for the site.  • Developed the custom payment gateway and the shipping providers for the Ecommerce application.  • Incorporated complete community controls, Web alerts for newsletters, E-commerce.  • Developed the XSLT for the web page modifications using the xml.  • Developed Templates using AJAX, JavaScript, XSLT, Xml and Server Controls.  • Responsible for importing the data to CMS using LINQ TO SQL and DBML Technology through web services.  • Worked on Building websites for clients using HTML5 and utilize the Features available in HTML4 such as local and session storage, Canvas functionality and new Html5 elements and Drag and Drop functionality.  • Worked on creating web pages using MVC Framework and JQuery and Ajax Callbacks.  • Extensively Utilized JQuery for Frontend validations, ASP.NET Ajax calls and calling Generic handlers via JQUERY-AJAX functionality.  • Extensively used server controls like list summary, collection and Content Block Controls for designing of various templates of the web site.  • Created Templates Based on ADO.NET, SQL Queries.    Environment: Sitecore 8.0, MVC 5.1, Glass Mapper, ASP.Net, C#.Net, Visual Studio 2013, IIS 7.0, SQL Server 2014, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, J Query, XML, XSLT, Coveo API, TDS, TFS 2015, Windows Server 2012 R2, ASP.NET, JavaScript, ADO.NET, T-SQL, CMS.NET, CMS, EKTRON CMS, AJAX, LINQ. Net Developer 3M - Austin, TX March 2010 to April 2012 Responsibilities:  • Involved in the complete Software Development Life Cycle including Analysis, Design, Implementation, Testing and Maintenance.  • Writing Software Requirement Specifications &Test cases, Object Oriented Analysis and Design using UML with Microsoft Visio 2013.  • Worked WCF Restful and simple ASMX services to retrieve data using XML and JSON.  • Used WCF for developing and deploying services on windows in line with the Service Oriented Architecture (SOA)  • Created User Controls, Data Access Layer, Business Logic Layer Classes using C# and .Net 4.0/4.5 for web pages.  • Design security for WCF service endpoints. Designing of WCF based Service, Data, Fault and contracts.  • Worked with different JQuery plug-ins and implemented client-side functionalities such as paging, table sorting/data tables, sliders.  • Used JQuery to perform validations and catch the events on client's browser.  • Implemented Popup Calendar for JQuery UI Datapicker using HTML5, JQuery  • Used LINQ to build set of operations, parameters and expression during execution a set of data from SQL Server.  • Implementation of client side validations using JQuery and ASP.NET MVC Validation implemented at Controller level.  • Extensively worked on ASP.NET MVC and converting some old views (aspx) to razor (views) and validations and Dependency Injection, fixing production bugs, etc  • Developed Data Model Classes with Entity Framework and business rules that are implemented within model layer using C#.  • Used JSON to transmit data between Server and Web Application, an alternative to XML Serialization  • Created Client side validations with JQuery selectors, Events and Server side validations with MVC Data Annotations.  • Implemented Unit Testing, Integration Testing and System Testing using NUNIT.  • Created new tables, wrote stored procedures for applications and some user defined functions.  • Created and maintained T-SQLdatabase objects like complex Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Tables, Views and SQL Joins.  • Developed SSIS Packages to replicate the data from My SQL to SQL server.  • Developed and delivered dynamic reporting solutions using MS SQLServer 2008 Reporting Services (SSRS).  • Created different types of reports such as drill down, drill through, parameterize and dash board reports and schedule them according to business requirement using SSRS.  • Responsible for maintaining versions of source code using Team Foundation Server 2012.    Environment: .Net Framework 3.5/4.0, ASP.Net 4.0, C#3.5, ADO.Net, XML, Web services, HTML, JavaScript, IIS 6.0, Windows 2000 Server, ADO.NET Entity Framework 4.3, HTML4, DHTML, CSS, UML, JQuery1.0, WCF, TFS 2010, Visual Studio.NET 2010/ 2008, Windows Server 2003, Windows Server 2008/2008R2, Windows XP, SSIS, SSRS, XML, AJAX, XAML, LINQ, SQL Server 2008, NUNIT. Software Developer Swift - Manassas, VA February 2009 to March 2010 Responsibilities:  • Designing, developing and implementing new classes and objects in C++ for handling various trade and clearing events.  • Worked on PKI Evolution Project activities.  • Worked in Security Infrastructure team.  • Worked on POC's for Entrust authority 8.2 for RHEL  • Evaluate new Certificate Authority release on RHEL platform and implemented changes.  • Migrating Certificate Authority from HP-UX to RHEL using Postgressql9.2.2.  • coded and migrated PKICA/EASMPKG packages to RHEL using KSH and Perl scripting.  • ported and added new functionality features in RHEL using shell,AWK and Perl scripting.  • Coded and ported cpp files and generated C++ binaries.  • Developing and Testing of new application components as well as maintainence/enhancements/bug fixes of existing applications including coverity fixes.  • Involved in production support and providing hot fixes to the production issues.  • Producing specifications and determining operation feasibility.  • Document and maintained software functionalities.  • Troubleshoot, debug and upgrade existing systems.  • Worked on Automation Testing using TCL script  • Ported and coded shell scripts, perl scripts from HPUX to RHEL.  • Implemented new functionality features in codes.  • Worked on ANSIBLE GUI for cluster creation on RHEL boxes.  • Supported SI for package issues and resolved them.  • Worked on configuring OSS components issues in RHEL.  • Worked on adding new functionality features and ported the PKICAPKG/EASMPKG to RHEL.  • Developing and testing of new application components as well as maintainence/enhancements/bug fixes of  • Existing applications including coverity fixes and tested them(unit testing). Education Bachelor's Skills net (7 years), ASP (7 years), Asp.NET (7 years), C# (7 years), CMS (5 years), Content Management System (5 years), CSS (7 years), HTML (5 years), JavaScript (7 years), JQuery (6 years), MODEL VIEW CONTROLLER (7 years), MODEL-VIEW-CONTROLLER (7 years), MS ASP (7 years), MS SQL server (7 years), MVC. (7 years), SQL (7 years), SQL Server (7 years), TDS (5 years), Visual Studio. (7 years), XML. (7 years) Certifications/Licenses Driver's License