Sr. Software Engineer Sr. <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Sr. Software Engineer - Redflex Traffic Systems Phoenix, AZ • Over 9+ Years of IT experience in all phases of SDLC including analysis, design, development, testing, maintenance, code refactoring and migration.  • Extensively worked in agile software development model.  • Extensive experience in working with ASP.NET MVC, Web Forms, User Controls, Custom Controls and ADO.NET and LINQ as the Database data consumer. Overcame numerous technical difficulties by creative ideas, proficient algorithm and data structure knowledge.  • Experience in using AJAX controls in ASP.NET Sites/applications and interacting asynchronously with ASMX Web Services.  • Extensive Knowledge on Microsoft .NET Design Patterns including Dependency Injection (DI), Inversion of Control (IOC), Singleton, MVVM and MVC.  • Experience with modern ORM technology.  • Strong experience in Object Oriented Programming Language and Concepts.  • Strong hands on programming, design, understanding and deep functional experience in creating, deploying and consuming of XML Web Services, WCF services, REST Services and Web API.  • Experience in creating LINQ enabled database layer using API such as LINQ to SQL and Entity Framework Code First.  • Responsible for developing Windows Azure ASP.NET MVC application for showing multi tenancy and hybrid applications.  • Worked with SSIS (SQL Server Integration Services) and SSRS (SQL Server Reporting Services).  • Involved in developing desktop applications using VB6.  • Experience in Develop Microsoft Excel VBA models to help recommend methods for reducing discrepancies.  • Created WinForms and Web Forms for developing the applications using win controls webserver controls and HTML5 controls.  • Experience in creating Indexes, Triggers and user defined functions in SQL Server.  • Applying best design patterns such as n-tier, MVVM, Repository, and Singleton for designing key reusable components.  • Maintained client databases to ensure accurate tax calculations, forecasting & IRS compliance.  • Collaborated with CPAs to understand tax law requirements and design compliant software solutions.  • Engaged in full development lifecycle: requirements gathering, design, coding, testing and deployment.  • Experience in performance testing using Load Runner.  • Team player with a very good understanding in working with small and moderate teams in the Software development projects.  • Excellent communication and interpersonal skills.  • Excellent analytical and problem solving skills with ability to communicate effectively with peers.  • Ability to learn & develop using new technologies quickly.    Technical Environment:    Operating System WINDOWS Vista, XP Professional, Gulp, UNIX/LINUX.  .NET and Web Technologies C#, VB.NET, ASP/ASP.NET, ADO.NET, Web Services, Azure, AJAX, WPF, WCF, WF, MVC 4&5, LINQ, HTML5 XML, CSS, WSDL, UDDI and .NET Remoting.  Frameworks .NET Framework 3.0/3.5/4.5.  Programming Languages C, C#, Visual Basic, VBA, VB6, PL/SQL and T-SQL  Scripting Languages VB Scripts, JavaScript, AJAX, JQuery, Angular JS.  RDBMS MS SQL Server 2005/2008 R2/20012, MS Access, DB2 and Oracle 10g,11g  Tools  Visual Studio, .Net 2013/2015/2017, Adobe Dreamweaver, Adobe Flash, Adobe Photoshop, MS Visio and Microsoft Testing Tools, QTP, Selenium Testing Tool, JIRA    Version Controller MS Visual Source Safe (VSS) and Team Foundation Server (TFS)  Application Server Internet Information Server (IIS) 6.0/7.0/7.5, Tomcat, WebLogic  Reporting Tools Crystal Reports 10.0/9.0, SSIS, SSRS Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Software Engineer Redflex Traffic Systems - Phoenix, AZ August 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Design and development of web applications using ASP.NET, AJAX, JavaScript, jQuery, CSS, C#.NET, WCF, XML technologies.  • Following OOPS concepts for design and implementation of the project.  • Developing UI and server-side code(behind) using .NET Framework 4.5.  • Developing, Configuring and consuming Web services in C# .NET using WCF.  • Developing multi-tier application using ASP.NET MVC template, C#, jQuery, CSS, HTML, Entity Framework and Oracle Server.  • Developed Web Application Security Model using Windows authentication model as well as Forms authentication, configured Web config files accordingly.  • Implementing the Business Layer for the application in C# using Database Authentication.  • Effectively used Session and Cookies for users to validate and to make a timeout for the connectivity with the database.  • Oracle Server was utilized as the data repository.  • Data Grid, Data Set, Data Table, Data View, Data Adapter and Data Reader were extensively used to receive and display data obtained from the database.  • Involving in unit testing and written various N-Unit test methods for testing the application.  • Utilizing Ajax Controls to reduce the client server round-trip time, hence enhancing the performance of the application.  • Working on IBM MQ WebSphere technology for message exchanges between Court and Redflex.  • Developing Custom reports using stored procedures.  • Implementing a Windows Service utility to adaptively scan the intranet for various versions of database engines and warn operator of complex compliance issues.  • Data Grids, Data Views, and Datasets were used to display Reports which were generated using stored procedures.  • Visual Studio 2012/2015 was utilized as the IDE tool for the development of the project.  • Supporting Day-to-Day Activities related PL/SQL procedures, packages and UNIX Schedulers to automate production Jobs.  • Responsible for production support and maintenance of software releases.  • Developing PL/SQL procedures, functions, packages and triggers for building customized code in SQL Navigator.  • Using Team Foundation Server as application version control system for migrating database objects.  • Preparing documents such as test documents, technical specification, and production move documents.    Environment: ASP.NET MVC5, C#, Visual Studio 2015, HTML, CSS, XML, XSL, XSLT, AJAX, Java Script, Bootstrap, TFS 2015, MQ WebSphere, Oracle, Web API, PL/SQL, IIS 7.0, SSIS, SSRS, .NET Framework 4.5. Sr. Software Developer PA JNET - Harrisburg, PA September 2015 to May 2017 Responsibilities:  • Created a Single Page Application with interactive and responsive UI with Angular 2, Bootstrap, CSS3, HTML5  • Implemented Angular 2 Validations, Events as per the requirement in the application  • Used ASP.NET MVC, Entity framework, SQL statements to develop server-side database connections  • Used the Node.js, Angular 2 in the development of the web applications.  • Developed Web API Services to perform CRUD operations with the database  • Create and maintain database objects like Stored Procedures and Tables, Views, User Defined Functions, in SQL Server for inserting/Updating/Deleting the data into the relational tables  • Communicating with client coordinators for requirements gathering  • Created Restful Web API's to expose the analytics data to the clients.  • Used HTML5 with CSS3 to style and format all of the applications pages and views.  • Involved in taking Backups, Restoring and Import/Export data using MS SQL Server.  • Writing Stored Procedures to send HTML notifications to the users by combining multiple jobs status  • Used Team Foundation Server (TFS) for source control, data collection, reporting and project tracking  • Created Indexes, Views and Stored Procedures for quick and efficient retrieval of data using SQL Server  • Facilitate daily SCRUM to help remove impediments.  • Testing developed packages in Dev and QC and check in to TFS  • Preparing Release Notes, Test documents for deployment  • Deploying the packages in DEV / QC / UAT instances  • Production Support for all the existing and new Applications    Environment: C# 6.0, ASP.NET MVC 5.0, Entity Framework, TFS 2017, IIS 10.0, jQuery, JavaScript, SSRS, Web API, XML, HTML5, CSS3, Web Services, SOAP, WSDL, AngularJS 2, SQL Server 2014, Visual Studio 2015, Windows server 2016. Sr. Developer FedEx - Dallas, TX October 2013 to September 2015 Responsibilities:  • Involved in the designing the architecture of the application modules and responsible for any changes adopted and the project uses application Design Patterns.  • Set up the development environment using Visual Studio.NET 2017, Power Shell, SOAP and Visual Studio Team Foundation Server 2010.  • Created Webpages for various work streams using C#.NET, AJAX, JSON with JQuery and business logic layer which connects to the other services using VB.NET.  • Creating applications using VB.NET and enhancing projects for .NET applications  • Implemented changes in coding and designs using knowledge of VBA.  • Used Various Data structures and algorithms to hold the performance (monthly/quarterly) data of the investment plans.  • Used AngularJS as the development framework to build a single-page application.  • Involved in Enhancement of existing application utilizing AngularJS, created HTML navigation menu that is role based menu items changes dynamically, derived from database in the form of XML.  • Created and tuning the database objects like complex stored procedures, Functions, Packages, Triggers, Indexes and Views using T-SQL in development and production environment for SQL Server.  • Developed client-side validations using JavaScript and AJAX scripting.  • Developed VBA based software that generates Item Fact Sheets from Excel line lists.  • Experience in working with RESTful Web Services and implementing RESTful API's.  • Setup Maven Profiles to connect DEV/QA/PERF/PROD.  • Responsible for developing the full stack (from the Markup, JavaScript, Application Services, Database).  • Created a light front-end framework against the JSON API for their service request portal using Bootstrap and Backbone.js. Test-drove all front-end code using Jasmine.  • Create a Virtual Network on Windows Azure to connect all the servers, application on  • Used govern, administer, synchronize and cleans the data using ETL and DB2  • Developed the Stored Procedures, SQL, PL/SQL Scripts, and Views for MS SQL Server 20012.  • Effectivly Report Wizard, Report Builder and Report Manager for developing reports and deploying reports in SSRS.  • Experience in writing expressions in SSRS and Expert in fine tuning the reports. Created many Drill through and Drill Down reports using SSRS.  • Developed SQL scripts to validate data integrity. Execute batch processing and verify the jobs status and data in database tables.  • Experience in using SSIS tools like Import and Export Wizard, Package Installation, and SSIS Package Designer.  • Developed Data Mapping, Data Governance, Transformation and Cleansing rules for the Master Data Management Architecture involving OLTP, ODS and OLAP.  • Created packages, Stored Procedures, triggers necessary for Web Services to load the transaction data for payments and libraries modules.  • Created SSIS packages for importing, exporting data to and from different data sources.  • Followed complete test driven development (TDD) for execution of this project.  • Intensively worked with Expression Blend 3.0 for Silverlight and WPF Developing and Visual Studio 2008 for Silverlight backend programming in C# for dynamically generating components in front Silverlight.  • Developed BizTalk orchestrations to process client and policy interface data files of legacy system.  • Migration of Legacy Microsoft based applications to the latest .Net technologies.  • Perform automated tests, unit tests (NUNIT) and customized load testing for the overall system and the custom API specifically using tools such as J Meter etc.  • Unit testing for all the modules by mocking different layers of the application Performed bug fixing and assigned it to the team.  • Tracked the defects using Team Track.  • Used TFS (Team Foundation Server) and GIT for version control for the project.    Environment: Visual Studio 2013, Team Foundation Server, ASP.NET, SQL Server 2012, SQL, PL/SQL, Web services, VBA, WCF, SOAP, Telerik RAD controls, AngularJS, AJAX, ADO.NET, JQUERY, LINQ, JSON, JavaScript, CSS, XML, MVC 5, Maven. .Net Developer North Carolina Department of Transportation - Raleigh, NC October 2012 to September 2013 Responsibilities:  • As part of the development team, I was associated with the full life cycle of the project (analysis, design, development, testing, and implementation) under agile and scrum methodologies.  • Involved in Requirements Collection, Design & Analysis of the Customer Specifications, Development and Customization of the Application.  • Hands on experience in developing, debugging-tier applications using VBA, ADO.NET, SQL Server 2008 R2.  • Worked one-on-one with client to develop layout, color scheme for his website and implemented it into a final interface design with the HTML5/CSS3 JavaScript.  • Used advanced level of HTML5, JavaScript, CSS3 and pure CSS layouts table less layout.  • Produced content pages with CSS3 layout and style markup presentations and used JavaScript methods and properties.  • Created Studio Shell - an open source PowerShell automation environment for Visual Studio.  • Implemented Windows authentication and Custom authentication against SQL Server database using Windows form controls and Used WPF for designing UI.  • Creating WPF/Silverlight applications using MVVM architecture.  • Analyzed and designed new WPF application using MVVM and Repository pattern, from design to completion.  • Prepare Access 2010 data using VBA Code to export to an Excel 2010 file following the new system's specifications.  • VB6 application with custom multipart printer/tray capability using VB6 integration allowing selection of printer tray, number of copiers per tray and save settings capability.  • Extensive Knowledge on Microsoft .NET Design Patterns including Dependency Injection (DI), Inversion of Control (IOC), Singleton, MVVM and MVC.  • Worked on latest .NET Framework features like parallelism (Tasks), LINQ, PLINQ, Dependency Injection (DI) and Unity Container.  • Redesigned back-end processing of most critical GUI used for calculating international tax.  • Created data entry both web and windows application, with LINQ to query XML Documents.  • Wrote SQL Queries to create tables, stored procedures, triggers, creating DTS Packages using SQL server and LINQ.  • Worked on migrating required code of different modules, which includes migrating VB6, Access 2000 to Windows Based "Tax Collections" module using VB.NET and SQL Server.  • Expert in Extracting and Transforming data (ETL) from various heterogeneous sources and creating packages using SSIS, Import, Export Data, Bulk Insert and BCP utilities.  • Expert Level experience with performing various SSIS data transformation tasks like Look-ups, Fuzzy Look-ups, Conditional Splits and Event Handlers, Error Handlers etc.  • Extensively worked on reporting tools SSRS of internal revenue for producing customer reports periodically.  • Created reports in SSRS with different type of properties like chart controls, filters, Interactive Sorting, SQL parameters.  • Involved in Bug Fixing, Handling the Service request from the customer and address them in timely manner.  • Extensively worked migrating the application which uses VB6, MS Access 2000 a windows application to Web application using ASP.NET, C# and SQL Server (For application called "Sales Tax")  • Used Subversion, TFS (Team Foundation Server) and GIT for version Controlling and source code sharing and used MS Build.  • Involved in analyzing and preparing Unit Test cases for various scenarios.  • Performed End-to-End Testing, troubleshooting, debugging, integration testing, regression testing and performance testing and analyzed the results to justify validation.    Environment: .Net Framework 3.5/4.0, MVC with Razor view, ASP.NET, VB.NET, C#, VB6, ADO.NET, HTML 5, XML, XSL, XSLT, SSRS, PL/SQL, VBA, SQL Server 2008 R2, MS Visual Studio .NET 2008/2010, Windows Forms, GenTax tool, GenTax Reporting tools, Team Foundation Server, IIS 7, Meta Storm BPM, LDR-Share Point. .Net Developer CITI Bank, South Dakota February 2010 to September 2012 Responsibilities:  • As part of the development team, I was associated with the full life cycle of the project (analysis, trading design, development, testing, and implementation).  • Involved in Requirements Collection, Design & Analysis of the Customer Specifications, Development and Customization of the Application.  • Creating applications using VB.NET and enhancing projects for .NET applications. Implemented changes in coding and designs using knowledge of VB .NET.  • Developed multithread distributed SMART CLIENT System using C# and VB.Net.  • Used VB 5 and 6, PB 5 and 6, and Web Page tools to generate bridge inspection and inventory reports. MS Access has been used as front-end report tools for reporting bridge information in SQL Server.  • Designed and developed various abstract classes, interfaces, classes to construct the business logic using C#.NET.  • Experienced in developing and consuming Web Services and n-tier web applications using ASP.NET, C# and ADO.NET.  • Used Unified Modeling Language (UML) technologies for a complete view of the application including class diagrams, sequence diagrams, activity diagrams.  • Extensively used Distributed Components to access the data from other autonomous computers, which is required for the project.  • Effectively Used DCOM to ensuring that references held by clients of interfaces are released when, the client process crashed, or the network connection was lost.  • Created Web Forms using ASP.NET and implemented form validation using Validation controls using both Custom validation and JavaScript was written for Client side validations.  • Used bindings to control the construction of the Windows Communication Foundation (WCF) channel stack at runtime.  • Extensive use of Web Services, SOAP, XML, XSL to expose the reports to facilitate the information sharing.  • Developed and ran Batch process files to get End of the day jobs done.  • Used ADO.NET objects such as Data Reader, Dataset and Data Adapter, for consistent access to SQL Server2008 data source.  • Effectivly Report Wizard, Report Builder and Report Manager for developing reports and deploying reports in SSRS.  • Performed Unit testing and System testing and prepared required documents for testing.    Environment: .Net Framework 3.0/4.0, C#, VB.Net, HTML 4.01, XML, WCF, SOAP, JavaScript, ESQL, Visual Studio 2005, Master Pages, AJAX, Silverlight4.0, ADO.NET, SQL Server2005, 2008. .Net Developer Microsoft - Redmond, WA May 2009 to January 2010 Responsibilities:  • Involved in full life cycle of the project from requirements gathering, analyzing, designing, and developing the application using Iterative AGILE Methodology.  • Worked closely with the client team to design and develop the application according to client requirement using ASP.NET with the business logic implemented using C#.  • Wrote backend code using C# hands on experience in creating services with Web API for removal, adding and saving.  • Involved in enhancing the application for client's requirements based on the market demand.  • Designed and developed an application using Model View Controller (MVC) application framework.  • Experience working with Team Foundation Server.  • Used ASP.NET MVC Page Controller pattern to add functionality to individual pages such as to accept input from the page request, invoke the requested actions on the controller.  • Created complex Web forms, Win forms, presentation layer and various server controls using WCF, WPF, ASP.NET and C#.  • Generated reports using Crystal Reports which can be imported to Excel and PDF.  • Working on creating Rest Services using ASP.NET Web API and C#.  • Worked with Web API to provide services to HTTP requests.  • Used AngularJS, which communicated with a RESTful web service.  • Developed Data Access Layer Using Entity Framework using Repository, Aggregator and Façade Patterns to access data from Azure (SQL and File) storage, also used API calls to enterprise API to get data in case of enterprise data.  • Used C#.NET to develop Code for Business and Repository Layer.  • Participated in various client meetings with the team to discuss improvements options during the development of the application.  • Maintained and designed databases with use of SQL server.  • Interacting with Business Analyst to ensure all the requirements are translated into technical requirements.  • Supporting and troubleshooting the data in the databases.  • Manage volume drivers to ensure high production availability.  • Design, Development using C#, JavaScript, AngularJS for the user interface using the Code behind Class technique.  • Experience in using AngularJS, ability to test views and able to do end to end unit testing. Also, using continuous integration.  • Creating custom, general use modules and components which extend the elements and modules of AngularJS.  • Created test cases for service components.  • Resolved QA bugs for front end and back end.  • Unit tested the service components and participated in regression testing.    Environment: C#, HTML 5, CSS 3, MVC 4, ASP.NET 4.0/4.5, Azure Angular JS, Node JS, JSON, Visual Studio 2015, Web API, JavaScript, JQuery, Bootstrap, Telerik Controls, SharePoint, TFS, Agile, WCF, WPF, SQL Server 2012, Windows XP. Education Bachelor's Skills Java, Python, C, C#, Linux