Senior Software Engineer Senior <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Software Engineer Charlotte, NC Senior software engineer with experience in multiple languages and platforms. Current interests are cybersecurity, statistical analysis, and machine learning. Currently employed to work on API design, microservices architecture, Ruby on Rails, Node/Express, React, and Docker.    I've worked for The New York Times, Forbes, Advance Publications and a bunch of startups and nonprofits.    I've founded several open source projects (including PhpWiki and Waverous LambdaMOO) and contributed to many more.    I'm also the founder and lead moderator of Reddit Water.    In 2011 the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame acquired over 600 hours of my old radio shows (I did radio for ten years) so now my stuff is in the Rock Hall, listed as "The Steve Wainstead Collection." Work Experience Senior Software Engineer Diligent Corporation - Charlotte, NC November 2018 to Present Diligent is the pioneer in modern governance. We empower leaders to turn governance into a competitive advantage through unparalleled insight and highly secure, integrated SaaS applications, helping organizations thrive and endure in today’s complex, global landscape. Our trusted, cloud-based applications streamline the day-to-day work of board management and committees, support collaboration and secure information sharing throughout the organization, manage subsidiary and entity data, and deliver the insights and information leaders need to mitigate governance deficits and outperform the competition. Our employees are passionate, smart, and creative people who thrive on exchanging ideas in a collegial culture of innovative thinking and constant improvement. Software Developer Emphasys Software / SocialServe.com 2011 to 2018 Lead the industry in unique affordable housing listings and building custom solutions for government agencies.  Software Developer (2011 to 2018)  Collected and analyzed data to generate reports in Python and PostgreSQL. Optimized queries and stored procedures, tested and debugged ORM code. Managed distributed development activities and modified a large proprietary code base. Focused efforts on the single asset that brought in the most money for the organization, funneling millions of dollars to the client's customers.  Key Accomplishments:  • Reduced and avoided bugs that could lead to losses $40MM - $90MM annually.  • Gained on-the-job knowledge of complex Python and PostgreSQL constucts.  • Added major new features to a legacy system.  • Secured thousands of dollars in billable hours as a full-time telecommuter.  • Worked in an agile environment employing continuous integration, code reviews, best practices and frequent releases.  • Worked directly with clients to gather requirements, write specifications, and implement the solutions on time and in budget.  • Garnered numerous compliments for handling customer issues in a personable, friendly, and helpful way.  • Assisted in screening, interviewing, hiring, and training new developers.  • Took initiative to write jQuery code to improve the UX for customer reports.  • Conducted detailed data analysis of complex data sets for clients. Director of Development / Software Development Manager MyPhotoAlbum.com 2004 to 2010 MyPhotoAlbum was a startup that capiltalized on the explosion of digital photography, enabling users to store large libraries of photos, edit them online, share them to social media, and order prints and products.    Director of Development / Software Development Manager (2004 to 2010)  Directed a team of five technical professionals with responsibility for 1000+ accounts/clients. Managed team structure via hiring and firing practices. Designed products/systems to scale to millions of stored photos for thousands of users and serve up the album pages quickly.  Key Accomplishments:  • Wrote a new web property in Ruby on Rails, a lead generation tool to find pro photographers.  • Wrote the popular Facebook integration allowing users to upload once to MyPhotoAlbum.com or PolaroidStudio.com, then choose photos to publish to their Facebook albums.  • Modified and maintained large PHP code bases: OSCommerce, Menalto Gallery, and the assets of Photrade.com (a professional photo sharing site).  • Wrote and maintained a set of recursive, interprocess control scripts to maintain data integrity between 100TB of image files, their associated flat files, and millions of database rows.  • Designed, maintained, and oversaw further development on the order fulfillment system, written in OO Perl; ran under cron and managed image files, database information and flat files on back-end and transmitted orders to vendors in XML or FTP and received status updates from them.  • Vendors: Kodak, District Photo, EZPrints  • Led technical due diligence on two companies, one of which was acquired.  • Designed development environments for every developer; introduced stand-up meetings.  • Managed the deployment process from development to tagging and staging to rollout.    Previous Roles: Software Developer FortuneCity.com 2002 to 2004 Java Developer Capital Thinking 2002 to 2002 Consulting Software Developer Capital Thinking - New York, NY 2000 to 2001 Consulting Software Developer Forbes 2000 to 2000 Web Engineer New York Times Digital 1998 to 2000 Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science Cleveland State University 1998 Skills PYTHON (7 years), STORED PROCEDURES (7 years), PERL (7 years), PHP (7 years), JAVA (3 years), C, Linux (10+ years), Ruby on Rails (2 years), Javascript Links https://github.com/wainstead Certifications/Licenses Linear Regression and Modeling Present Duke University via Coursera Inferential Statistics Present Duke University via Coursera Probability and Statistics Present Duke University via Coursera Groups Las Vegas Developers November 2011 to September 2013 I founded this Meetup while living and working in Las Vegas. Starting with one member (me) I grew it to 300+ members before moving due to my wife's career. Today LVD has over 1,000 members and is still going strong. Southernmost Tech and Telecommuters February 2015 to May 2016 I co-organized this social group of techies in the Florida Keys, launching co-working nights at area coffee shops and hosting monthly luncheons. Additional Information TECHNICAL PROFICIENCIES  Programming: Python, SQL, JavaScript, R, stored procedures, shell scripting, PHP, Java, HTML/CSS, Perl, C/C++, Emacs Lisp  Technologies: RStudio, SQLAlchemy, Excel, Linux, OS X, PostgreSQL, MySQL, Apache, Git, Jenkins, Emacs