Development Manager Development Manager Rockville, MD • 10+ years of experience in the design, development and client support of data warehouse, software, and systems.   • 10+ years of experience in the field of service-oriented architecture (SOA).  • 10+ years of experience developing applications on the .NET platform.  • Expert in T-SQL, SQL Server, PL/SQL, Oracle, MySQL, and Sybase databases.  • Expert in Microsoft .NET technologies, like Angular, .NET Core, RESTful APIs, ASP.NET, C#, WCF, WPF, WF, Entity Framework, etc.  • Extensive working experience on Python using packages such as Pandas, NumPy, SciPy, Keras, NLTK, TensorFlow, Scikit-Learn, etc.  • 6 years of experience working with C++ to build order systems.  • Passionate on machine learning to predict market trend.  • Experience working with cloud-based data warehouses - Snowflake  • Experience working in AWS environment   • Financial & banking industry experience  • Graduate Certificate in Data Science/Machine Learning from University of Maryland at College Park  • MS in Computer Science from Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute  • US Citizen. Work Experience Development Manager MUFG Investor Services (Mitsubishi Bank) - Rockville, MD November 2018 to Present • Led transformation from Waterfall to Agile Scrum software development.  • Developed coding standards, test plans and review processes.  • Improved product quality by significantly reducing the defect backlog  • Managed and delivered 2 major releases, a few point releases and several patches on-time, meeting aggressive deadlines and under budget.  • Identified architectural improvements resulting in increased developer efficiency, product reliability, and responsiveness to new feature requests.  • Continuously adjusted priorities and addressed issues to improve efficiency. Achieved committed product content and quality goals on time after staff reductions and increases in content.  • Coached junior developers/interns Mitsubishi Bank - Rockville, MD April 2018 to Present Sr. Software Engineer MUFG Investor Services (Mitsubishi Bank) - Rockville, MD April 2018 to Present • Setup and configurate customized TFS Agile environment,  • Performed data analysis on large scale trading data sets (involving Millions of rows of data)  • Improved SQL query performance from 5+ hours execution time to 8 minutes without adding new index.  • Designed, developed, and managed SEC Modernization Reporting System for 40 Act mutual funds in RESTful API, .NET Core, Angular, Javascript, WCF, C#, SQL Server 2012/2014, Python, Powershell, etc.  • Led transition from traditional SQL database to AWS & Snowflake cloud computing infrastructure. Application Developer/Analyst & Tech Lead Fannie Mae - Urbana, MD November 2016 to March 2018 Contractor)  • Implemented and maintained large scale WPF Mortgage application that is heavily used in Fannie Mae Multi-Family business.  • Designed and implemented the Housing Goal Automation project, P&L, Economic Profit project.  • Evaluated various cutting-edged technologies for upcoming new applications.  • Reengineered from an old application, lead on designing & implementing new application. Assist less experienced developers.  • Participated in the transformation from Waterfall to Agile Scrum software development.  • Used Agile Software Development and JIRA as management tool.  • Used: C#, WPF, LINQ, ADO.NET, Active Directory, Lambda expressions MS Entity Framework, TFS, SQL Server 2012, and Telerik. Lead / Sr. Software Developer Chilton Investment Company - Stamford, CT October 2010 to June 2016 • Used Agile software development, Test Driven Development (TDD), like JIRA, NUnit, Moq, Rhino Mocks, etc.  • Designed and developed Portfolio Management, real-time P&L, trading strategy generation system, and tax estimator in both web and window applications.  • Worked closely and proactively with the business team to streamline daily performance monitoring reports. Increased productivity by 30%.  • Tackled monumental challenges with tight deadlines and turned around many critical projects.  • Worked with full Systems Development Life cycle (SDLC) and focused on system reusability, maintainability and extensibility.  • Generated compliance, fund accounting, trading, and tax reports, like FINRA reports, 13F reports, etc.  • Tuned SQL query performance which queried GB data tables.  • Used: C#, ASP.NET, WCF, IIS, WPF, LINQ, ASP.NET, MS Entity Framework, IIS, TFS, Excel model, T-SQL, SQL Server (2005-2014), SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS), Python, PowerShell, VB, Telerik, and Infragistics. Sr. Software Developer McKesson Health Solutions - Norwalk, CT November 2007 to March 2010 • Designed and developed web base applications that manage claims payment policies and rules. Extensively used PL/SQL to retrieve rules, policies and claims from Oracle database. Monitored and tuned the database performance.  • Used WPF PRISM to design and develop a new claim rule configuration system independently.  • Tuned and improved performance of a legacy web application that was written in VBScript and ASP.  • Mentored less experienced technical staff and lead technical staff in design and development project.  • Analyzed claims experience for different provider practices: Went through total claims by month for a list of physicians. Looked at charge pattern for a certain procedure (CPT code) to find high cost doctors.  • Migrated a 3 ties legacy claim management system to modern application frameworks & design practices. Used TDD, Agile software development technology, dependency injection, SOAP, and other new technologies, like WCF, WF, MS Queue, ASP.NET MVC, WPF, NHibernate, etc.). This system uses XML format data to communicate with client systems.  • Database: Oracle, PL/SQL Sr. Software Developer TradeCapture, Inc - Stamford, CT August 2006 to October 2007 • Used Agile software development, TDD, and other cutting edge technologies to design and develop real time commodity trading system and reporting application.  • Worked and leaded outsourced IT provider to ensure excellent product support.  • Quick adaptability to the new technologies.  • Used C#, SQL Server, Java, NHibernate, and DevExpress during the application development. Sr. Software Engineer NYFIX, Inc - Stamford, CT November 2000 to August 2006 • Designed and developed the Trader Workstations software systems which offer a real-time trading solutions for institutional sales and block traders.  • Improved real time application performance.  • Investigated and resolved production problems, provided trouble shooting and end-user support.  • Extensively used C++/MFC, STL, Sybase, PL/SQL, C#, and .NET during application development. Sr. Distributed Programmer and Analyst Hartford Hospital - Hartford, CT October 1998 to November 2000 • Designed and developed Intranet web page for Hartford Hospital, produced finance reports and forms on the intranet. Assisted Web Administrator to manage and secure the intranet access.  • Analyzed clients' requirements. Designed and developed database for MidState Medical Center.  • Coded and optimized store procedures, produced reports and forms.  • Used Sybase, DBArtison 4.0, RapidSQL 4.1, Perl, PowerBuilder, and MS Access. Education Graduate Certificate in Data Science University of Maryland at College Park - College Park, MD 2019 M.S. in Computer Science in Computer Science Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute B.S. in Material Science in Material Science Shanghai Jiao Tong University Skills Javascript, C#, .NET Framework, (10+ years), ASP.NET MVC, Angular, CSS (3 years), Python (5 years) Additional Information • 10+ years of experience in the design, development and client support of data warehouse, software, and systems.  • 10+ years of experience in the field of service-oriented architecture (SOA).  • 10+ years of experience developing applications on the .NET platform.  • Expert in T-SQL, SQL Server, PL/SQL, Oracle, MySQL, and Sybase databases.  • Expert in Microsoft .NET technologies, like .NET Core, RESTful APIs, ASP.NET, C#, WCF, WPF, WF, Entity Framework, etc.  • Extensive working experience on Python using packages such as Pandas, NumPy, SciPy, Keras, NLTK, TensorFlow, and Scikit-Learn  • Experience working with cloud-based data warehouses - Snowflake  • Experience working in AWS environment  • US Citizen.    BUSINESS AND TECHNICAL SKILLS  .NET Technologies  WPF, WCF, WF, ADO.NET, Active Directory, Entity Framework, Web Services, Window Services, .Net Framework1.1 to 4.6, NHibernate, LINQ, lambda expressions etc.    Web Technologies .NET Core, Angular, RESTful API, ASP.NET MVC, IIS, CSS, Javascript, AJAX, JSON, etc.  Programing/Script Languages C#, C++, VB.NET, Java Python, PowerShell, VBScript, etc.  Version Control TFS, SVN, VSS.  Agile & TDD JIRA, Visual Studio Unit Test, NUnit, Moq, Rhino mocks  Databases SQL Server (2005-2014), Snowflake, Oracle, PostgreSQL and Sybase databases (T-SQL, Stored procedures, triggers, indexes, etc.)  Reporting SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS), Tableau, Crystal Reports, etc.  Application Tools Visual Studio, SQL Management Studio, ActiveBatch, Eclipse, etc.  Business Knowledge Finance, healthcare and government  3rd Party Libraries Telerik, DevExpress, Infragistics