Senior Software Engineer Senior <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Senior Software Developer Edison, NJ Over twenty (20) years (2+ in cloud computing) of professional experience in IT and Software Applications Design, Development, Deployment and Administration using Oracle, SQL Server, BigQuery and .NET Framework on Mac, Windows and UNIX platforms.  • Extensive experience in designing and developing data warehouse (DW) systems.  • Expertise in SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS), SQL Server data transformation services (DTS), SQL Server Reporting services (SSRS) & Microstrategy reporting tool.  • Extensive experience in Oracle SQL, PL/SQL, and Oracle Reports/Forms 10g/9i/6i/4.5. Performed DBA functions like creating Databases, Users, Table Spaces, Triggers, Sequences, Views and Indexes.  • Expert in designing/developing BI dashboards with Looker and Tableau.  • Good experience in designing/developing big data analytics projects with BigQuery on Google Cloud Platform.  • Extensive experience in designing/developing applications with .NET technology using C#, VB.NET, ASP.NET, ADO.NET, XML, SOAP, Remoting & Web Services.  • Extensive experience in designing/developing Visual Basic applications using MDI, multiple forms, ActiveX controls, COM components, OLE Automation objects, coded procedures/functions to meet users' requirements/validations and developed reports using Crystal Reports.  • Used ODBC, RDO, ADO, and DAO to use and update data from Oracle/SQL Server database tables from Visual Basic programs using recordset methods.  • Participated in the designing of Databases, Normalization, and utilization analysis of database objects.  • Good experience in converting the Business Requirements into Technical Specifications, Design & Development. Quick learner, excellent team player with strong leadership and communication skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Software Engineer Weight Watchers International - New York, NY May 2004 to Present Designed, developed and maintenance of Enterprise Data Warehouse (EDW). This project was implemented on SQL Server platform, which is a large data store of multiple source systems within weight watchers and used for BI reporting/data analysis to guide management decisions.    ·      Developed complex ETL processes to migrate the OLTP data from various weightwatchers source systems (CHAMP, BOSS, DOTCOM, ERP, eCommerce) into DW environment. Implemented Type 1, Type 2 Slowly Changing Dimension changes on many dimensions.  ·      Extensively used SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS) packages for ETL and transformed all source data into Dimensions & Fact tables.  ·      Involved in Data warehouse dimensional star schema data model designing.  ·      Involved in source and target data element mapping, finalized all data element mapping and did an extensive data source analysis.  ·      Requirements gathering for the reports through meetings with functional team and business users.  ·      Designed and developed various business critical reports (including drill down and charts) using SSRS, Microstrategy & Tableau.  ·      Created tech solution documentation based on business requirements & did code reviews.  ·      Created stored procedures/packages to implement business logic; performed Unit and Integration testing of the same.  ·      Involved in bug fixing of many complex production support issues.    Designed and developed BigQuery (BQ) Star Schema Project. This project was implemented on Google Cloud Platform (GCP), which hosted big data store of multiple source systems within weight watchers and used for BI reporting/data analysis.    ·      Designed and developed various Facts and Dimensions in BQ to fulfill business report requirements.  ·      Wrote Unit and Integration tests for all the modules and did peer review (PR) of team member code.  ·      Used SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS) with Zappysys to upload data from various source systems to Amazon S3.  ·      Worked in Agile software development cycle.  ·      Designed and developed prototypes using Java and Spark/Zeppelin.  ·      Created complex data models, views and explores using LookML and successfully delivered business critical BI Dashboards in Looker.    Designed, developed and implemented Decision Support System (DSS), an Oracle operational data store (ODS) of company’s global (13 countries) operations used for operational reporting and source for DW.      ·      Designed and developed various Oracle PL/SQL stored procedures/packages to meet business report requirements.  ·      Designed and developed many business critical reports (including drill down and charts) using SSRS.  ·      Independently delivered many complex ad-hoc reports working closely with business owners.  ·      Extensively used External tables to access reference data maintained business users.  ·      Worked with Oracle directory objects for writing files to OS directory, which were used in FTP jobs.  ·      Managed and mentored offshore team in different phases of the project.  ·      Self learned and performed many Noetix Admin tasks like creating/managing users, subscriptions, VTables, Noetix Views generation and working with NQS & NWQ.    Environment:   Oracle 12c/11g/10g/9i, PL/SQL, UNIX, Control-M Scheduler, MS SQL Server 2014/2008, SSIS, SSRS, SSAS, Visual Studio 2012/2010, Mercury Quality Center, BigQuery, GCP, Microstrategy, Tableau, Looker, Git, Jira, Rational Synergy, Sourcetree, Noetix 4.x. Senior Developer ADP August 2003 to April 2004 Designed, developed and implemented Resource Planning System, a .NET web application. This system records, tracks and reports the resource planning for their corporation's IT department.  • Designed, developed and implemented web application with Web Forms/ASP.NET/C# coding using Data Sets (including typed datasets), Data Views, Farpoint Web Spread and ADO.NET.  * Administrated, deployed the IIS Web server for hosting Websites and also worked on performance tuning, website security.  * Designed and created various custom reports using Crystal Reports 9.0, published them using Crystal Enterprise and integrated with ASP.NET web pages.  • Wrote various JavaScript functions for front-end validations.  • Designed & developed user controls for re-use in the several modules of the application.  • Created Database Procedures and Functions to meet business rules/validations.    Environment: Oracle 9i, ASP.NET, C#, Web Forms, ADO.NET, Farpoint Web Spread, Crystal Enterprise 9.0, Crystal Reports 9.0, Visual Studio.NET, MS Visual Source Safe, IIS and Windows XP. Senior Developer BECHTEL CORPORATION, MD August 2002 to July 2003 Designed and developed PCWorks, a multi-tier .NET application. This system tracks the entire Project Control department's activities/progress from set up to completion of a project. Numerous reports are also generated in the application using Crystal Reports.  • Designed and developed front end with Win Forms/ VB.NET coding using Data Sets, Data Views, Data Grids and ADO.NET, also wrote several procedures/functions for data manipulation/filtering.  • Designed, developed and implemented the multi tier, multi user intranet web application using ASP.NET/VB.NET to develop rich user interface for different branches of the company.  • Developed XML Schemas and generated XML documents from database tables and used them for storing/updating data from database tables.  • Developed XML based messaging system for displaying multi-language messages.  • Used Crystal Reports & Visual Studio.NET to create dynamic reports & view them in the forms.  • Developed Web Services for exchanging the data with company's international branch offices.  • Created Database Triggers, Procedures and Functions for ensuring data integrity and consistency.    Environment: SQL Server 2000, Oracle 9i, VB.NET, Win Forms, ADO.NET, CSS, XML, XSD, DTS, T-SQL, ASP.NET, Web Services, Crystal Reports 9.0, Visual Studio.NET, MS Visual Source Safe and Windows 2000. Applications Developer EMC CORPORATION March 1999 to July 2002 Designed, developed and maintenance of CQ Field Reporting System for Corporate Quality department. It tracks and generates reports for Plug & Play failures, System Reliability and Field failures for different EMC products.  • Involved in Complete database design of the modules and also involved in taking design decisions of the database.  • Designed and developed of user-friendly VB front end with coding of procedures, functions for data validations based on complex business rules.  • Created various COM components and effectively called them in the design and development.  • Involved in converting Database from SQL Server to Oracle and writing SQL Scripts.  • Created and worked with Access Tables, Queries, Macros and VBA coding to generate Excel charts and Access reports at runtime.  • Successfully remediated dept. reports from SQL Server to Oracle through Access/VBA coding.  • Involved in Unit level and Module level testing, Debugging and System Integration.    Environment: Oracle 8i, SQL Server 6.5, Visual Basic 6.0, COM, MS Access 97, MS Excel 97 and VBA on Windows NT/UNIX.    Designed and developed Orca Reporting System (ORS). This system was initially developed using Access front end to generate Access reports and was later converted into a web reporting system using ASP with Oracle 8i as backend.  • Designed and developed the web reporting system for the company requirements using ASP, all reports could be sorted on all the columns and had paging in them.  • Also involved in the HTML and JavaScript coding of the web project.  • Involved in complete Database design of the modules and also involved in preparing Design documents for development.  • Designed and developed the application using Access and VBA coding.    Environment: Oracle 8i, ASP, HTML, VBScript, JavaScript, MS Access 97, IIS 4.0, Visual Studio 6.0 and Windows NT.    Designed and developed Integrated Quality Data Filter (IQDF) to automate the data entry, cleaning and reporting of field reliability and plug & play events of all the EMC products.  • Coding of SQL & PL/SQL stored procedures for data filtering/validations as per business requirements.  • Automated processes using UNIX shell scripts/CRON.  • Design, development and coding of data entry forms to meet user's needs using Developer 6.0.  • Was also involved in fixing the bugs with the User Acceptance Testing of Forms.  • Designed & generated monthly/weekly reports using Reports 6.0.    Environment: Oracle 8i, PL/SQL, Designer/2000, TOAD, SQL Navigator and Developer 6.0 on Windows NT/UNIX. Software Developer LOGISTIC SOLUTIONS INC February 1998 to January 1999 Designed and developed Production Information System to maintain all the transactions related to production department. It keeps track of the Material stocks, Bills of Material, available Work Centers, and Routings. It also holds data from calculation of MRP to raising a Production Order, Order Confirmation based on the Order Proposals.  Developed GUI for the end users, writing procedures and functions, designing development specifications and determined functional requirements for resources needed for implementation, providing end-user technical support, performance tuning and documentation, writing triggers to encode business rules, generate reports and menus to integrate screens. Involved in maintenance and enhancements of the Oracle database.    Environment: Oracle 7.3 with ODBC connectivity, Visual Basic 5.0,MDI Forms, ActiveX Controls, Crystal Reports on Windows NT.    Designed and developed an application to maintain Consultant and Client Information System. This system is aimed at the computerization of storing the resume, parsing the data of consultant, Setup the interview with the consultant and recruiter and search for the candidates in the database against the job requirements. Installed Operating system and Created Databases.  Environment: Visual Basic 5.0, MS Access 97, VBA, Crystal Reports, and OLE Automation on WindowsNT. Education MS in Mechanical Engineering California State Univ. Long Beach BS in Mechanical Engineering Osmania University Skills MICROSOFT ACCESS (6 years), MS Access (6 years), Oracle (10+ years), SQL (10+ years), UNIX (5 years), C# (7 years), SQL Server (7 years), SSIS (7 years), SSRS (7 years), ETL (7 years), Data Warehouse (7 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Software Tools  BigQuery, GCP, Looker, Tableau, Amazon S3, Git, Jira, Sourcetree, Visual Studio 2012/2010, Oracle Reports/Forms 10g/9i/6i/4.5, Noetix 4.x, Crystal Enterprise, Crystal Reports 9.0/8.0/7.0, Oracle Designer/2000, SQL*Loader, SQL*Plus, Erwin, SQL Navigator, TOAD, MS Visual Source Safe, ODBC/JDBC    RDBMS Oracle 12c/11g/10g/9i, SQL Server 2014/2008/2000 MS Access 2000/97  Operating Systems Mac macOS/OSX, Windows 7/XP/2000, MS-DOS, UNIX  Languages Java, JSP, Servlets, JavaScript, VB, VBA, XML, XSLT, ASP, VBScript, SQL, T-SQL, PL/SQL, HTML, C, C++  DOT NET VB.NET, ASP.NET, ADO.NET, C#, SOAP, Remoting, Visual Studio.NET and Web Services