Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer - Software Design Group Yorba Linda, CA Software and firmware programmer with over 20 years' experience in designing and programming  computer systems and applications. Work Experience Software Developer Software Design Group - San Juan Capistrano, CA 2018 to Present Worked closely with the development team using C#, .Net Core, jQuery, Entity Framework and LINQ to develop a proprietary as yet to be released web-based product that interfaced with Azure. Used  DevOps to keep track of our stories and tasks. Familiar with SourceTree to manage repositories and workflow. Slack was our main means of communication. Software Developer Custom Business Solutions - Irvine, CA 2015 to 2018 Worked closely with the development team using C#, ASP.NET, MVC4, JQuery, Entity Framework, LINQ and Kendo UI for ASP.NET MVC to create and maintain a proprietary web-based enterprise  content and configuration application that interfaced with a restaurant point-of-sale system. The product  is currently used in hundreds of locations throughout the U.S. and on cruise ships.  Wrote automated testing software for the application using C# and Selenium.  Used Visual Basic.Net for legacy applications. Consultant/Firmware Programmer KK Designs - Irvine, CA 2014 to 2015 Worked closely with the hardware engineer to write code for a PIC24FJ256DA206 16-bit micro  controller in C using MPLABX from MicroChip. It was used to control motors that were attached to a high-end digital camera that would move the iris and zoom. When initially turned on, it would go out  and find the hard stops simultaneously. It also accessed the camera's menu using a joystick on the LANC protocol. The record/stop could also be controlled along with changing the overall speed of the  motors. Diagnostics were also written to check the LEDs, motor control, joystick and power. The micro  controller could be reprogrammed in the field using a USB port on a computer. Consultant/Programmer J2 Retail Systems - Tustin, CA 2003 to 2014 Using Visual Basic .NET framework 2.0 and some embedded assembly I wrote many programs that  interfaced with the point-of-sale touchscreen terminals, including some of the following utilities:  • Cash drawer test that would open the drawer and check to see if it was open or closed.  • A health program that would get the voltages and temperatures from the system.  • Customer display utility that would display data on a 2x20 display.  • Extract pertinent information from the BIOS.  • Interface with Digital Persona API that saved fingerprints and later used them for identification  to log into the customer's software.  • Take data that was input using a magnetic stripe reader on the keyboard port and convert it to serial data.  • Several utilities that would configure the unit.  • PAL (program application loader) that was simple to use by asking for a terminal IP address and a server IP address when the unit was first plugged in and would then copy all the necessary  files from the server and restart the terminal running the customer's application.  Created and maintained Windows master images for all the terminals. A local server was used to save  and load the images using the CloneZilla disk duplicating software. Wrote a menu in Linux script to access all the images. Software/Firmware Programmer Javelin Computer Systems - Irvine, CA 1998 to 2003 Programmed Atmel microcontrollers in assembly language using the AVR Studio application interfacing with the touchscreen, magnetic stripe readers and 2-line x 20-character customer displays. When  needed, I would use a logic analyzer for testing.  Wrote programs that would program the onboard microcontroller using C and assembly.  Loaded the various Windows operating systems onto our manufactured PC-compatible touchscreen  point-of-sale computers for testing/production. Saved these images using the Ghost disk cloning  program. These images would be stored on a local server.  Used Quick Basic to write a menu program to facilitate the downloading of the saved Windows O/Ss by model number, which would be accessed by booting a USB thumb drive.  Wrote diagnostic programs in C to help test the many functions of the terminal.  Converted old DOS programs written in assembly to C.  Loaded and tested the customer's custom software onto the terminals after the O/S had been  installed. Applications Programmer United Business Computers - Yorba Linda, CA 1995 to 1998 Designed, maintained and enhanced applications written in UniBasic. These were used for stationary  store ordering and inventory. Assisted customer service in locating errors in the software. These fixes  would then be implemented in the current software. Education Cal State Fullerton - Fullerton, CA Skills C#, Visual basic, Asp, Asp.net, jquery, Mvc, Ui, Assembly, Analyzer, Oscilloscope Additional Information Special skills: I can use an oscilloscope and a logic analyzer.  Languages include:  • Visual Basic.Net  • Assembly  • C/C#  • JQuery  • Basic  • Kendo UI for ASP.NET  • MVC