Architect/Team Lead Architect/Team Lead Software Engineering Manager Cedar Park, TX • 14+ years of commercial software product development & delivery experience  • 5 + plus years in leadership roles heading various software product development initiatives.  • An accomplished software architect and team lead  • Seasoned technology leader with proven success delivering high quality large scale commercial software & SaaS solutions from concept to production  • Proven success in building high-performance software development teams & using Agile software development methodologies.  • Excellent project management skills with ability to handle multiple competing priorities in a fast-paced environment  • Managed & delivered on several commercial software development efforts in diverse industry domains  • Strong people management experience.    KEY MANAGEMENT PRINCIPLES    Avoid Micro Management, Team Oracle, Minimum Process, Simplicity is Genius, TDD, Empowerment, Ideas = Gold, Transparency, Be Proactive Not Reactive, Be Agile, Smart Vs Hard Working, Avoid Knowledge Towers, All Inclusive Team, Business Goals Aligned Carrier Path, Work Life Balance, Test Shield, Want To Vs Have To Work Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Architect/Team Lead Dell, TX September 2014 to Present Lead teams supporting price calculation applications which supports the Dell sales platform.    Responsibilities:    * Managed a team of 6 to 10 engineers directly in Austin and 10 to 12 developers from India and Malaysia indirectly  * Drive the cloudification of Pricing Service to move into Pivotal Cloud Foundry (PCF)  * Designed service-based architecture with emphasis on incremental development/deployment strategy and simplicity  * Decreased time wastage in finding information by centralizing domain knowledge and day to day coordination details  * Performed code reviews, implemented coding, branching, merging, and testing standards  * Performed agile project management  * Increased individual domain expertise by organizing knowledge sharing sessions among all teams across multiple time zones  * Reduced defect leakage through TDD and automated test suites  * Reduced defect leakage by implementing coding standards and minimum processes.  * Increase application performance by setting up internal perf environment with cutting edge performance profiling tools  * Offer demonstrations/presentations to the management and the team.  * Reduces server issues by expanding capacity and removing unused applications.  * Reduce time to root cause production issues by building troubleshooting and monitoring tools    Environment:  .Net Core and 4.5, C#, GitLab, Team City, Octopus, Visual Studio 2019, IIS 8/10, SQL Server, MongoDB, PostSharp, Pivotal Cloud Foundry (PCF), ASP.Net Web API Software Consultant SSDC October 2012 to August 2014 SSDC offers Social Security disability filing and management services to individuals and companies.    Responsibilities:    * Reduced the time to follow up new leads to less than a minute by connecting lead generation systems with the Customer Services Representatives using SignalR with a WPF client.  * Integrated the public web site with the internal MS Dynamics CRM to update customer information and survey status.  * Improved the online presence of the company by changing the public site theme and functionality to be responsive so that the same site would display in wide variety of devices including desktop, tablet, and mobile browsers.  * Increased the efficiency in web development by creating a Javascript library to automate web form generation.  * Followed a TDD/BDD approach and reduces the time and effort on testing. Automated the testing process (according to Black Box testing) for the web applications using Selenium (using WatiN at the beginning) web automation framework, MS Unit testing, and Resharper test runner.  * Designed and build the mobile version of the SSDC public site targeted towards capturing individual seeking disability benefits using JQuery Mobile and ASP.Net MVC 4.  * Built the Admin site to manage the SSDC public site.  * Designed, built and integrated a blog module into the current public site.  * Designed and built third party authentication for blog users to post comments using the DotNetOpenOath library and integrated authentication with Facebook, Google, Yahoo, and Microsoft.    Environment:  .Net 4.0, C# , ASP.NET MVC4 with Razor engine, JQuery, JQuery Validation, JQuery Mobile, KnockoutJS 3.0, Bootstrap, SignalR2.0, Entity Framework Code First, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, WatiN, Selenium, Visual Studio 2012/2013, IIS 6/7, LINQ, WCF, WPF, SQL Server 2008, Autofac, JQuery AJAX Senior Software Engineer Quicken Loans Inc January 2012 to September 2012 Quicken Loans provides online services to apply, process, and service mortgages in a secure and fast manner. Company ranks at 10 in best 100 companies to work for in 2012.    Responsibilities:  * Reduced maintenance time by 30% by fixing crashing issues and memory leaks in the document management applications using WPF imaging API, GDI+ and .Net 4.0 exception handling features.    * Developed a new web portal using ASP.Net MVC 3 with Razor engine and TDD with SpecFlow to gather tools that will help the team to manage, service, and coordinate system administration and service tasks.    * Redesigned the document conversion system using dependency injection, factory, chain-of-responsibility, template, strategy designed patterns, so that multiple conversion engines can be created and configured with less testing.    * Created new document conversion engines using third party libraries including iTextSharp, MuPDF to increase the efficiency and accuracy of document conversions.  * Designed, developed and deployed a system that facilitates server session management.  * Tuned database SQL queries to increase query performance and to reduce stress on the databases.    * Performed presentations to the team on design patterns (Strategy, Dependency Injection etc.) with real world examples.    * Introduced the team with new trends in the software industry like Domain Driven Designing (DDD), and Behavior Driven Designing (BDD) using Specflow.  * Followed a Test Driven Development (TDD) for all development.  * Followed an agile development methodology with a 2 week sprint with daily standups.    Environment:  .Net 4.0, C# , ASP.NET MVC 3 with Razor engine, Agile, Entity Framework Code First, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, FireBug, SpecFlow, Visual Studio 2010/2012, IIS, LINQ, WCF, SQL Server 2008/2005,OnBase, SpecFlow Senior Software Engineer Tactara LLC January 2010 to December 2011 Tactara provides online marketing solutions to its clients including promotional email management (list management) and IP space management.    Responsibilities:  * Developed a new website using ASP.Net web forms to replace the legacy list management website with Test Driven Development (TDD).    * Reduced the development time to add content to the website by creating a framework (Class library/API) which allows the developers to add content without having to concern the layout or the styles of the website.    * Created the business layer for the list management using the Domain Driven Design methodology.    * Achieved the challenge of building applications to process and aggregate over 600 million of email record related data within 1.5 hours to created daily email records inventory reports.  * Created complex stored procedures that generate complex status/inventory reports within 30 seconds.    * Created batch applications that transfer data between the company and clients using technologies including web services, HTTP GET and POST methods.    * Created applications that send daily email to the executives and managers with statistics of daily performances in different formats including Excel, HTML4, and text.    * Maintenance of company internal reporting and data management websites with bug fixes, and new feature additions.  * Tuned the application queries to increase query performance and to reduce stress on the databases. Improved the performance of the databases by creating/updating indexes and changing database schema.    * Designed and implemented new database schema for the email management platform.    * Maintenance of IIS servers by creating new websites, update existing sites    * Perform peer code reviews to improve coding standards and trained junior developers.    Environment:  .Net 4.0, C# , ASP.NET MVC 3, Razor engine, Entity Framework 4.0, Telerik, HTML4, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, FireBug, Visual Studio 2010/2008, IIS, LINQ, WCF, SQL Server 2008/2005, MsSQL Software Developer Empower Software Solutions, CA March 2009 to December 2009 Empower Software Solutions develops and markets human resource (HR) management software. Its line of software can manage HR related activities from employee time management to pay roll processing and check printing.    Responsibilities:  * Implemented complex business rules according to customer requirements.    * Increased application performance using techniques including lazy loading, database table indexing, implementing paging etc.  * Fixed bugs and implemented enhancements to EmpowerTime windows and web applications.  * Added new features to the ASP.Net web applications.  * Developed WCF services for the EmpowerPay application.  * Used design patterns including Factory method, Template, Façade, and Singleton method.    * Made changes in the database schema and created SQL database scripts to be included in the application upgrading software.  * Analyzed complex payroll process logic and created flow diagrams.  * Developed enhancements for installation and un-installation applications.  * Used LINQ to query data objects.  * Performed application demonstrations to the upper level management.  * Used Team Foundation Server (TFS) for source code control, bug tracking, and task management.    * Followed the Test Driven Development Methodology by creating unit tests for layers (i.e. Business Logic Layer, Data Access Layer) of the applications.    Environment:  .Net 3.5, C# , ASP.NET, Windows Forms, Visual Studio 2008, IIS, ADO.NET, LINQ, WCF, XML, N-Unit, Infragistics, Master pages, TFS, SQL Server 2008/2005, HTML 4, CSS 3 Microsoft.Net Consultant CSK Auto January 2008 to February 2009 Product Information Exchange Standard (PIES) module automates the import of PIES XML data into CSK's Electronic Product Catalog (EPC) database. This module is integrated to the company's current EPC Quality Assurance (EPC-QA) application that updates the EPC database with information from vendors and manufacturers. This module allows the users to load PIES XML files into the database, review XML data files in a feature rich GUI and publish selected data into the database.    Responsibilities:  ? Performed all phases of the SDLC from creating design documents to designing, developing, testing, and installing in the production server.    ? Followed an agile development with 2 weeks sprints with frequent application demonstrations to the upper management and created the module based on the three layer architecture (i.e. presentation layer, business logic layer, and data access layer).    ? Extensively used XML, XSD, XPath related class libraries to validate third party XML files, search and extract data in XML files, and to handle XML files.    ? Used web services to expose data of the EPC database to other branched of the company and also for vendors who has systems implemented in diverse technologies.    ? Supported the company's online store web application which was developed in ASP.Net by fixing bugs and developing enhancements.    ? Fixed bugs in the EPC-QA application and developed enhancements that provided and improved usability and data security.  ? Edited VB6 applications and also converted/rewrote VB6 applications in C#.  ? Assisted the SQL Server 2000 migration to SQL Server 2005 by editing, repackaging, and converting SQL 2000 DTS packages into SSIS packages.  ? Edited SSRS reports by adding new controls and editing VB.Net code of the report.    Environment:  .NET Framework 3.5, C#, VB.NET, VB6, ASP.NET, VBScript, ADO.NET, UML, XML, XSD, XPath, Visual Studio 2008, SSRS, SSIS, IIS 6.0, SQL Server 2000/2005, Microsoft Visio 2003 Software Developer University of South Florida, FL August 2005 to August 2007 Designed, developed, and maintained the School of Accountancy Research Partnership (SARP) website and the College of Business Research (COBR) website. COBR website functions as the central location for all research related information of COB including research events/workshops, funding opportunities and sources, research resources, faculty research expertise, research articles, working papers etc.    Responsibilities:  ? Performed all the steps in the SDLC including initial system analysis, identifying functional design specification, architecture design, development, implementation, and maintenance.  ? Created the presentation layer based on ASP.Net and code-behind model with web controls.    ? Implemented business logic layer in C# by using .NET Framework Class Libraries.    ? Implemented the Data Access Layer with ADO.Net classes and designed and created tables and stored procedures in SQL Server 2000 database.    ? Implemented Role Based Security model with Form based Authentication to authenticate and manage external users.  ? Implemented and automated email notification system using custom classes that uses SMTP Mail.    Environment:  .NET Framework 1.0, VB.Net, ASP.NET 1.0, ADO.NET, UML, HTML4, DHTML, JavaScript, CSS2, MS Front Page, Visual Studio 2002, SQL Server 2000, MySql Education MBA in Business Administration University of South Florida - Tampa, FL August 2004 to August 2007 Master's in Management Information Systems University of South Florida-Main Campus - Tampa, FL August 2004 to August 2007 Bachelor's in Management Information Systems University of South Florida-Main Campus - Tampa, FL August 2002 to August 2004 Skills HTML, Jquery, Javascript, XML Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/sujeewadotnet http://stackoverflow.com/users/1658297/sujeewa