Software Engineer <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Software Engineer - Hexaware Technologies Inc Washington, DC • Over 3 Years of IT experience in analysis, design, development, implementation, documentation and testing of Java/J2EE based enterprise applications using Spring, Hibernate, MVC frameworks.  • Experience in developing applications using JAVA with various J2EE technologies Collections, Multithreading, JSP, Servlets, JDBC, Java Beans, JNDI, JMS and Web Services.  • Experience in Web/Application Servers such as Tomcat 7/8/9 for deploying and configuring web applications.  • Experienced in developing and consuming REST and SOAP web services for real time data transfer by using JSON (JavaScript Object Notation) and XML.  • Spring Application Context Module, Spring MVC Framework module, Spring AOP Module, Spring ORM Module, Spring security in Web applications.  • Experience in Spring AOP aspects to perform auditing and logging and used Spring security for access control and authorization and used Spring Inversion of Control (IoC) for injecting the beans.  • Experience with database persistence layer Object Relational Mapping (ORM) tool like JPA, Hibernate, and Spring-JPA.  • Strong knowledge on distributed version control tool like GIT and has an excellent experience in Agile/Scrum methodologies.  • Experience in Unit testing, Integration Testing using various testing methodologies and tools like Junit.  • Hard working team player with excellent analytical, design, development, testing and communication skills couples with strong academic background. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Engineer Hexaware Technologies Inc October 2018 to Present Project:  The Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (FHLMC), known as Freddie Mac, is a public government-sponsored enterprise (GSE). Freddie Mac's primary method of making money is by charging a guarantee fee on loans that it has purchased and securitized into mortgage-backed security (MBS) bonds. Investors, or purchasers of Freddie Mac MBS, are willing to let Freddie Mac keep this fee in exchange for assuming the credit risk. That is, Freddie Mac's guarantee that the principal and interest on the underlying loan will be paid back regardless of whether the borrower actually repays.  Responsibilities:  • Followed Agile software methodology for project development  • Designed the architecture based on the popular J2EE Model 2 approach of MVC design paradigm.  • Developed application on Spring framework by utilizing its features like Spring Dependency injection, Spring Security, Spring Web flow with Spring MVC.  • Used Spring AOP in case of logging and security.  • Exposed the application as a Restful web service and implemented the authentication.  • Designed front end View with HTML, CSS, HTML5, CSS3 and JSP.  • Implemented Data validations for critical functionalities using JavaScript.  • Created web services using SOAP, to allow application and services to connect them over the Internet.  • Developed JUnit test cases for Unit Testing and functional testing for various modules and prepared Code Documentation for future reference and upgrades.  • Involved in pre-testing the Web-Service calls with SOAP UI/POSTMAN/ using end-points.  • Used GIT HUB for maintaining the component and to release version management.  • Used Eclipse as Integrated Development Environment (IDE).  • Developed Application using Spring MVC Architecture.  • Developed Validations for Client-side using JavaScript.  • Developed backend logic using Core Java including Collections and multi-threading.    Environment: Java, Spring MVC frameworks, Servlets, JSP, HTML, JavaScript, Web services, SOAP and REST web services, Hibernate, Apache Tomcat Java/J2EE Developer Nabil Bank Limited - Kathmandu, NP June 2014 to July 2016 Description:  Nabil, the first foreign joint venture bank of Nepal. Nabil was incorporated with the objective of extending international standard modern banking services to various sectors of the society. Nabil provides a range of commercial banking services through its 51 points of representation across the country. This system eases the maintenance of various accounts including debit-cards, loans, and fixed deposits. The system offers automatic bill payments, bill scheduling, fund transfers, mobile banking, housing loan, electronic payment gateway and automatic notifications through emails.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in development of Staffing sub-modules like Staffing Override, Resume Upload  • Involved in development of the back-end in agile environment.  • Interacted with the User Group to gather requirements.  • Developed application using Eclipse IDE.  • Designed the sub-modules based on the initial specifications defined by the user group.  • Implemented client-side validations for search and security modules using JavaScript.  • Created Single Page Application with loading multiple views using route services and adding more user experience to make dynamic by Spring Framework.  • Involved in debugging, testing and integration of the system.  • Designed and implemented Java engine and API to perform direct calls from front-end JavaScript.  • Worked on fixing bugs raised by the users.  • Test cases for unit testing.  • Documented all the low-level design of the application.  • Developed JSP / Action servlet classes.  • Applied J2EE design patterns such as MVC, Singleton, and Data Access Objects in the architecture.  • Developing Hibernate XML Java object-to-database mapping documents.  • Used XML, and JAXP for transforming request/responses to other formats. Education Master of Science in Information Technology in Information Technology Virginia International University - Fairfax, VA 2016 to 2018 Bachelor of Information Management in Information Management Orchid International College - Kathmandu, NP March 1972 to 2010 Skills ECLIPSE, J2EE, JAVA, HIBERNATE, SPRING, Javascript, MySQL Additional Information Skill Set Summary:    Languages JAVA, C, C++, and SQL.  Web Technologies HTML, XML, CSS, Java Script, Swing, Java Beans, JMS  J2EE Technologies Servlets, JSP, Web Services, JDBC, SOAP, RMI.  Methodology UML, MVC, Agile, Scrum, Waterfall, RUP  App/Web servers Apache Tomcat, SOAP, WSDL, REST  Applications Frameworks Spring, Hibernate.  Tools Maven, Gradle, JUNIT, Log4j, TOAD.  IDEs Eclipse, STS, NetBeans, InteliJ.