Sr. Software Engineer Sr. <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Sr. Software Engineer - General Dynamics Information Technology Cherry Hill, NJ • 10+ Years of IT experience in Application Development, Design,  Testing and Implementation.  • 3+ years of experience in the development of Angular 7.  • 6+ years of experience in the development using ASP.Net, VB.Net,  MVC, C#, RESTFUL Web API, SQL Server 2012.  • 3+ years of experience in the development of Hybrid Mobile App  (iOS & Android) using Telerik App builder and Angular JS 1 and 4.  • Programming Knowledge in ASP.Net, VB.Net, MVC, C#, RESTFUL  Web API, Angular JS 1 and 4, Telerik / Kendo UI.  • Web application / Software development including all aspect of the  system development life cycle.  • Excellent Communicator with peoples of all level and provide  application support to the end user.  • Excellent in learning new technology and easily adapt to a new  environment. Work Experience Sr. Software Engineer General Dynamics Information Technology November 2016 to Present Egg Harbor Township, New Jersey  * Wildlife - Website 4.0: (FAA Airport Technology Research & Development)  o Technologies: Angular 7, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, SQL server  o Management of Team Foundation Server and VSTS. Creating work items, bugs assign to developer, keep track of each individual task with Analysis,  Design, Code and Testing.  o User Interface enhancement using Bootstrap, CSS and HTML.  o Worked on mange tables section for USDA which includes CRUD operation with stored procedures.  o Guide developer team and advice possible enhancement of code; defined  application development process.  * Wildlife - Web services: (FAA Airport Technology Research & Development)  o Technologies: MVC Web API, C#, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, SQL  server 2014, TFS, VSTS  o Management of Team Foundation Server and VSTS. Creating work items, bugs assign to developer, keep track of each individual task with Analysis,  Design, Code and Testing.  o Created Restful web services to report a wildlife strike report, update a strike  report by report number.  * Pave Air: (FAA Airport Technology Research & Development) Software Engineer Checkpoint Systems - Thorofare, NJ February 2013 to October 2016 Check-Net Hybrid Mobile App:  -Technologies: AngularJS, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Telerik App builder  with Mobile UI, C#, RESTFUL APIs, PhoneGape and Cordova, and GitHub for version control.  -Developed hybrid mobile application using Telerik App builder with Apache  Cordova that can run natively on android and iOS devices with the option  expand to Windows phone etc.  -Used AngularJS as the development framework to build a single-page  application.  -Application supports Telerik Analytics with options expand to Google  Analytics.  *Check-Net Redesign web application:  -Technologies: MVC4, C#, LINQ, Bootstrap, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, RESTFUL Web APIs, JQuery, JQuery UI, JSON, Required JS, Type Scripts,  Knockout.Js, Telerik Kendo UI, Entity Framework, SQL server, SSRS, and Team Foundation Server for version control.  -Created a custom, responsive MVC web application to replace a legacy line- of-business web application using Bootstrap, Where user can login and place  their orders online.  -Application worked across mobile devices and modern desktop browsers and multi lingual.  *New Customer Signup System:  -Technologies: MVC 5, C#, LINQ, Bootstrap, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, RESTFUL Web APIs, JQuery, JQuery UI, JSON, Telerik Kendo UI, Entity  Framework, SQL server, and Team Foundation Server for version control.  -Worked with business development team to understand and define common  data and components.  -Created a custom, responsive MVC web application using Bootstrap where new customer can apply using new account signup (on boarding) process and  existing user can add new retailer access.  *Accrual Management System:  -Technologies: ASP.Net, SQL Server 2008, SQL server reporting Service, Entity Framework, SQL server, and Team Foundation Server for version  control.  -Accrual report is small full stack version of project, it's mainly used for Account  department month end process to know orders produced and not shipped within the accrual time period.  -Creating customized reports. Jr. Software Developer WHMCo Hospitality LLC January 2008 to June 2009 1 year 6 months)  Monmouth Junction  - Web site development and maintenance.  - Understanding hotel industry PMS software, developing customized reports  based on business requirement.  - Mass mailing application to guest with promotional offer, getting  computational rate module.  - Customized HR Management System, Web application development using  ASP.Net, Telerik Ajax Control and SQL server. Software Engineer Altop Industries Ltd June 2004 to January 2008 3 years 8 months)  * Task Monitoring System:  - Desktop application using VB6 includes monitoring of orders by departments, order entry, create Bill of Materials, and create parking slip and delivery notes.  - Data Report used to create reports.  - Understands business / customer requirements, create mockup screens, and create user interface, deployment on local server, support to training to end  user and unit testing.  * Sales Support System:  - Desktop application using VB6 includes entry of order queries and creating  outward with proposal before the due date. Creating different type of report like daily inquiry report, out ward report.  - Data Report used to create reports.  - Understands business / customer requirements, create mockup screens, and create user interface, deployment on local server, support to training to end  user and unit testing.  * Instrument Calibration System:  - Desktop application developed for Garden Silk Mill, Surat using VB6 includes  calibration of instruments with master data and create calibration certificate.  - Data Report used to create reports.  - Understands business / customer requirements, create mockup screens, and create user interface, deployment on local server, support and training to end  user and unit testing. Software Trainee Alton Industries December 2003 to May 2004 6 months)  * Inventory Management System:  - Desktop application using VB6 includes monitoring of inventory using Bard  Code reader, Include entry of material comes in and goes out, generate report for pick items and remind of ordering before item goes out of stock.  - Data Report used to create reports.  - Understands business / customer requirements, create mockup screens, and create user interface, deployment on local server, support to training to end  user and unit testing. Education Associate's degree in Computer Programming Atlantic Cape Community College 2009 to 2012 Master of Computer Application in Computer Science ISTAR College, Sardar Patel University 2001 to 2004 Skills Angularjs, jquery, Javascript Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/prakash-patel-0437b631?jobid=1234&lipi=urn%3Ali%3Apage%3Ad_jobs_easyapply_pdfgenresume%3By6aUStBgSYuXIKxAg0CVQQ%3D%3D&licu=urn%3Ali%3Acontrol%3Ad_jobs_easyapply_pdfgenresume-v02_profile