Sr. Salesforce.com Developer/Admin Sr. Salesforce.com <span class="hl">Developer</span>/Admin Sr. Salesforce.com Developer/Admin - UHG Hooksett, NH • Having 7+ years of professional IT experience as an Application Developer in different programming languages.  • Experience as a Salesforce Developer, Salesforce Administrator, and Techno-Functional Business Analyst on Sales Cloud, Service Cloud, Custom Cloud, Chatter and Force.com platform along with AppExchange applications.  • Experience with Test-Driven, Agile, Scrum, Spiral, and Waterfall Development. Significant experience in issue resolution, client communication and reporting.  • Adept at documenting BRD, PDD (Project Definition Document), and PPD (Process and Procedure Document)  • Experience in creating user training manuals, and conducted user training sessions. Experience in Object Oriented Languages like C++, Java, and Net Platform.  • Experience in web technologies like HTML, XML, CSS, VBScript and JavaScript. Experience with databases such as Oracle, MS SQL Server, MS Access and MySQL.  • Experience in Partner Portal, Customer Portals and Force.com Sites. Experience with both technical and functional aspects of Salesforce.com and have deep understanding of its underlying principles of SAAS and Cloud Computing.  • In-depth understanding of CRM business process like Campaign Management, Lead Management, Order Management, Account Management and Case Management.  • Experience in customizing Sales, Marketing, Customer Support and Call Center Applications.  • Excellent in Administrative tasks like creating Profiles, Roles, Users, Page Layouts, Permission Sets, Email Services, Approvals, and Activities.  • Implemented Security and Sharing Rules at Object, Field, and Record Level for different users at different levels.  • Strong Experience working with Apex classes and Triggers, Controllers and Controller Extensions, Components, Test Method and Application Design and Development on Multitenant Force.com platform.  • Experience developing Custom UI with AJAX functionality using Visual force pages, Visual force Tags, Attributes and Controllers.  • Expertise in Apex to implement the complex business logic with in Governor Limits. Hands on Experience of Salesforce Web Services API like REST, Bulk & SOAP.  • Developed Test Classes and Test Methods to ensure Maximum Code Coverage in Production instance.  • Experience in writing Test Methods and Test Cases with code coverage of more than 80%.  • Expertise in Source Code Management using Microsoft Visual SourceSafe and ClearCase.  • Implemented various fields such as Pick list, Dependent Pick list, Multi-Pick list & Custom Formula Fields, Lookups, Junction Objects, and Master-Detail Relationships.  • Extensive experience of using declarative features like Validation Rules, Field Dependencies, Workflows, Dynamic Approval Process for satisfying complex business process automations.  • Extensive Experience in Salesforce Integration with in house legacy systems using Web services API like Rest, Bulk and SOAP, Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Salesforce.com Developer/Admin UHG - Hooksett, NH October 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  • Created a support portal using Sites concept in Salesforce. Developed VF pages and associated Apex classes to allow the customers to register, login and submit their service requests which are resolved by CSS people.  • Worked with various salesforce.com objects Lead, Account, Contact, Opportunity, Campaign, Cases, Solutions Standard objects & Custom Objects.  • Created Custom objects, fields according to the requirements of business which are useful in the validation of entitlements.  • Created custom Profiles, Roles, and Public groups to restrict the data access to the unwanted internal users depending on their job responsibilities.  • Developed UI using CSS, HTML tags, Visual Force components and used JavaScript for front-end validation.  • Created Page Layouts for various profiles to make the CSS people comfortable for inputting data into the CRM from customers.  • Implemented Formula fields, Validation Rules, Workflow Rules, and Workflow Approvals.  • Created custom reports to evaluate the performance of CSS people and the usage of the customer portal as well.  • Developed Reports and Dashboards, validation rules, formula fields for the application.  • Developed and configured Custom Reports to planning monthly, quarterly and annually and for forecasting.  • Expert in functional and technical evaluation of Microsoft Dynamics CRM software tools.  • Skilled in integrating Salesforce with external Master data using SOAP and REST API.  • Extensively implemented Visual Flows for automatic sales and service process in Sales, and Service Cloud. Scheduled Apex Batch jobs for processing large records.  • Written Apex Classes, Controller, Extension Controllers and Triggers in the application for various Business/functional requirements.  • Written SOQL, SOSL query language necessary for the application in Apex Classes and Triggers.  • Implemented Web-to-Lead and converted Lead to Custom Client Object (aka Account object). Maintained system interface diagrams and functional designs.  • Written Test Classes to meet Unit testing before migrating from Sandbox to Production environment.  • Used the Sandbox for UAT and deployed the code to the Production instance after UAT.  • Deployed the changes from Sandbox to Production. Used Data Loader for insert, update, and bulk import or export of data from Sales force Objects. Used it to read, extract, and load data from comma separated values (CSV) files.  • Created Triggers like sending emails to the portal users whenever they update their account information comparing their new information with their old information.  • Created VF Components used repeatedly in VF pages to reduce the redundancy when needed.  • Created Visual force and HTML Email templates to be sent to the customers depending on the action they perform after they log into the portal.    Environment: Saleforce.com platform, Apex Language, Visual Force (Pages, Components, Controllers & Extensions), Data Loader, Apex Triggers, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Email Services, Security Controls, Eclipse IDE Plug-in. Sr. Salesforce Developer/Admin Bank of New Hampshire - Whitefield, NH November 2015 to September 2016 Responsibilities:  • Gathering business requirements, designing appropriate solutions, and implementing solutions in Force.com platform, especially in enhancing Salesforce Chatter in highly dynamic agile environment.  • Implemented Single Sign-On (SSO) in multiple Salesforce instances using SAML 2.0 and OAuth 2.0.  • Involved in Social Collaboration project to connect Salesforce Chatter platforms, Zyncro social collaboration tool, Make Positive Passport, Apttus X-Author for Outlook, Jive and Stream Once, Microsoft SharePoint 2013, and Microsoft Dynamics CRM.  • Designed, implemented and developed the Custom Objects, Page Layouts, Custom Tabs, and Components to suit to the needs of the application.  • Created user Roles and Profiles, Security Controls and Sharing Settings, Permission Sets. Managed users, hierarchical roles, profiles, security controls and territory management.  • Defined Lookup and Master-Detail relationships on the standard and custom objects. Used Field-level Security, Profiles and Audit Trail Setup to ensure that protected data is only shared with authorized persons as per Federal regulations.  • Implemented Pick Lists, Dependent Pick Lists, Lookup, Junction Objects, Master-Detail Relationships, Validation, and Formula Fields to the custom objects.  • Used Microsoft Outlook to keep a record of critical email communications and events, and keeps customer information up to date.  • Implemented Apex Classes and Triggers to link them to manage the Workflows implemented in the system.  • Created Visual Force Pages to provide UI to the custom objects. Wrote custom controllers implementing complex code for retrieval from Sales Force to Visual Force pages.  • Used SOQL and SOSL for data manipulation needs of the application using platform database objects.  • Always wrote Test Methods with code coverage of 80-100%. Developed Workflow Rules, Time Triggered workflows for various business requirements.  • Implemented Approval Processes to ensure proper authorization in the high-stakes environment of capital management.  • Involved in Data Mapping and Data Migration from Php My Admin database to SalesForce.com Objects and fields using Informatica On-Demand.  • Involved in Data Mapping and Data Migration from Oracle database to SalesForce.com Objects and fields using Informatica PowerCenter and SFDC Plug-in.  • Migrated leads, accounts and contacts to the Sales Cloud with help Jitterbit. Used the Sandbox for testing and migrated the code to the deployment instance after testing.  • Supported the data migration activities for migration the data from various business centers and business center users using Apex Data Loader with night schedule.  • Created various Reports (summary reports, matrix reports, pie charts, dashboards) and setup report folders to authenticate users based on their profiles (permissions).  • Used Analytic Snapshots for bi-weekly reports to track progress for Chatter activities. Worked as Production Support to help end-users in Login issues, workflows, reports and dashboards accessing.  • Worked with Jive platform to sync Salesforce opportunities. Involved in custom implementation of Zyncro platform to communicate and sync across multiple Salesforce Chatter group feeds, comments, and attachments.  • Tested and configured Make Positive product Passport to connect multiple Salesforce instances to sync Chatter user wall and group feeds, comments, and attachments.  • Deployed, configured, and tested Apttus X-Author (Outlook plug-in) from AppExchange to enable Salesforce chatter pane including all functions in Outlook.  • Deployed and Configured Chatter Usage Dashboards to keep track and generate reports and dashboards for high ranked users inside organization.  • Deployed and Configured Chatter for Outlook to display chatter feeds from contact in Salesforce. Salesforce Administrator/ Developer Merck - Manchester, NH May 2013 to October 2015 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Salesforce.com Application Setup activities and customized the apps to match the functional needs of the organization.  • Worked on various salesforce.com standard objects like Accounts, Contacts, Reports, Case, Solutions and Opportunities.  • Create various profiles and configured the permissions based on the organizational hierarchy requirements. Customized tabs for among different business users groups and business centers.  • Interacted with various business team members to gather and documented the requirements and implemented solutions module that helps agents to review knowledge base solutions while researching a case; this meant agents could also publish their own solutions as they closed cases.  • Defined Lookups and Master-Detail relationships on the objects and implemented Email response to case functionality that helps customers get fast answers to questions.  • Configured Microsoft Outlook to keep a record of customer communications. Implemented escalation rules, automatic case generation and their escalation to call center representative, and configured to generate email alerts for quick resolution of the issues.  • Managing UAT sessions and Project communication. Issue (Defects) Management and Tracking. Status Reporting and Tracking. Coordinating between teams for the defect fix and testing.  • Implemented a direct interface from its Web portal, so that when a customer files a report, and it is automatically turned into a support case in Salesforce Case Management.  • Implemented Customer Portal to provide an online support channel for the customers - allowing them to resolve their inquiries without contacting a customer service representative.  • Used Force.com platform for developing feature rich and user friendly Visual force pages for enhancing Salesforce UI.  • Used SOQL, SOSL to select the data from salesforce.com platform database. Written test methods and Test cases with code coverage of more than 80%.  • Developed Apex classes, Controller, Custom Controllers and Triggers for various functional needs in the application.  • Integrated Salesforce with legacy systems using Apex Web services and outbound messaging.  • Created the workflows for automated Case routing, Case escalation, alerts and custom coaching plans.  • Created various Reports (summary reports, matrix reports, and charts), dashboards, and Report Folders to assist managers to better utilize Salesforce as a sales tool and configured various Reports and for different user profiles based on the need in the organization.  • Deployed and configured the Cast Iron from the AppExchange for data integration from the Flat files to Salesforce.  • Deployed and configured Syntellect Phone Link from the AppExchange a CTI application which provides screen pop ups, click-to-dial and automatic population of call data.  • Deployed and configured Instant Service Chat and Email from the AppExchange to let agents click to create cases from chat and email.  • Deployed and configured Work it Automatic time tracking from the AppExchange marketplace to track the exact time users spends on any case. Provided Post-implementation Support and end-user Training.    Environment: Saleforce.com platform, Apex Language, Visual Force (Pages, Components, Controllers & Extensions), Data Loader, Apex Triggers, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Email Services, Security Controls, Eclipse IDE Plug-in. Salesforce Developer Amazon - Seattle, WA February 2011 to April 2013 Responsibilities:  • Performed the role of Salesforce.com Developer in the organization.  • Developed Apex Classes, Controller Classes and Apex Triggers for various functional needs in the application.  • Created Visualforce pages with responsive design using company CSS and style-sheets with the help of jQuery and static resources.  • Created the visual force pages and integrated with external legacy system using REST based web-services.  • Developed SOQL and SOSL queries to get data from different related objects. Developed visual force pages using apex components.  • Developed and configured various Custom Reports and Report Folders for different user profiles based on the need in the organization.  • Implemented REST Web Services with Jersey API to deal with customer requests.  • Responsible for writing test class for classes related to the project, helped other teams in writing it and always maintained overall 85% of code coverage and made a safe deployment for every bi weekly releases and major releases.  • Enforced security by implementing object and field level security, sharing rules, permission sets, organization wide defaults and roles.  • Performed code migration between the sand box and production platforms via eclipse force.com IDE plug-in.  • Performed Data Migration from home grown legacy system to Salesforce CRM.  • Implemented Sales cloud and incorporated the enhanced features as required to streamline the business process.  • Conducted training sessions to the UAT users to use the Salesforce Knowledge application and developed a feedback custom report.  • Developed Call in Rest Services for e-Commerce (Online Sales).  • Developed Call Out Rest Services for Billing System and Provisioning.  • Code deployment was done using the Eclipse IDE, Deployment Change Set and Snapshot.  • Worked in agile methodology and participated in daily meetings and presentations in the organization.    Environment: Salesforce.com platform, Apex Language, Visual Force Pages, Components and Controllers, Data Loader, Workflow and Validation Rules, Reports and Report Types, Custom Objects, Tabs, Email Services, HTML, JavaScript, Eclipse IDE Plug-in. Software Developer Lane Bryant - Nashua, NH July 2009 to January 2011 Responsibilities:  • Involved in the entire software development process, established the goals and requirements of the application, involved in data collection and analyzing the data as well as business flow.  • Involved in getting requirements from the users and converting them to functional and technical specifications.  • Developed Detailed Design using UML, Rational Rose. Made extensive use of web forms controls in addition to writing custom controls inheriting from web forms controls.  • Web UI for Dynamic inquires to historical Data executing on-the-fly queries to the Database.  • Developed User Interfaces using ASP.Net, and C#. Worked in ASP.NET Web Forms, ASP.NET State Management, ASP.NET Caching features, Securing ASP.NET Web Applications.  • Worked extensively on the data layer and business logic, to implement numerous web user controls which display information about the gift certificates, available services and balance. These controls and data layer are developed extensively in ASP.net, ADO.net, C# and SQL server.  • Implemented numerous client and server custom validation in JavaScript and c#. Performed enhancement to the old web site, implemented Asp.net using C#, T-Sql and SQL server. Developed a new look using CSS.  • Implemented several extendable controls from a main Web user control to display information about purchasing and sale of gift certificates. These controls are developed in c#.  • Involved in the design, development and implementation of a windows forms application in .net using c# which communicates with data layer to access the data from Backend database.    Environment: C#, ASP.Net, ADO.Net, VBScript, Web Services, XML, VB.Net, MS Visual studio 2003, MS office XP, MS SQL Server 2000. Education Bachelor's Skills Drupal