Owner/Operator Owner/Operator Landscaping / Construction Manager Flower Mound, TX My desire is to find a position where my creativity, intrapersonal skills, and business acumen will all be exercised.  I have a strong background in marketing strategies, planning, budgeting, and production processes and tactics across  multiple mediums including print, digital, email, direct mail, and social. With 10 years' experience running a year  round service company I am more than ready to show you what I can do. Work Experience Owner/Operator Premier Lawnscapes of Texas July 2009 to Present Premier began its life as an online only service model for basic lawn care in 2009. Over the years, Premier became the answer for high end residential property management and exterior construction. Our  service program was a year-round management program that included everything a client would need through one source. Over time our higher end client base created opportunities for additional projects  like landscape design, outdoor living - kitchens, fireplaces, fountains. All our exterior construction  projects were designed, and plans rendered by me. All permitting with appropriate city officials and HOA was also handled by me. I am very knowledgeable on plants for Texas and what conditions they  work best in. I have also become fluent in Spanish as well. I am responsible for all aspects of this  company- job estimating, marketing, social media, customer service, HR, product development, accounting, and purchasing. The company has gone from 73 accounts at $12,000 a month to 300 clients at $80,000 a month. Premier Lawnscapes of Texas 2012 to 2014 Our focus here was product development and campaign execution. Working mostly on projects for other  marketing agencies and direct clients.    • Managed social marketing and developed data driven email program for energy client acquisition  using targeted approaches including testing messages and conducting market research to plan  campaigns. The agency was Small Dog Marketing and DMN3 in Houston Texas. Executed  approximately 6 million emails per month as follow up to direct mail program.    • Developed Data Portals for global trade and shipping/logistic industry. Projects included product  workflow development, software scope development, website UI, creative, content marketing and copywriting. Our strategies helped to promote efficiencies with decision-ready data, convert  customers, and drive web application subscription levels.    • ShadowCritic.com  Shadow critic was a mobile app development project that allowed social groups to leave  comments about TV or movies shows inside a timeline that was broadcast on wireless routers.  When you left a comment about a show, your friends could see your comments when they  watched that show. I developed all creative, video shots, marketing collateral, and presentation  materials. Project was abandoned due to patent issues.    1 Solution Sales Premier Lawnscapes of Texas 2010 to 2012 Our focus was cross platform solution selling and marketing automation. We built and delivered campaigns spread across direct mail, email, microsite, personalized landing pages, and provided reporting solutions from custom  integrations to customer CRM platforms like Salesforce, or standard reporting out of toolsets like XMPie, Pageflex and others.  Some of the projects I managed included the following:    • Google AdWords Financial Reporting.  Developed a new packaged product that fit into the "Googley" vibe. Managed creative process with client. Managed the development of custom graphs used just by and for Google. Managed  data inputs from global data sources. Managed direct mail delivery compliance.    • New Era Walls HD.  Client started a new business unit that printed custom wallpaper. To promote this product we  developed a campaign to take existing are previous clients had sent in for prints, the utilized page  composition and the Adobe api to build custom "living room" perspectives complete with furniture but the walls were covered in that persons actual art from previous orders. The follow  up email campaign had landing pages inviting the client to view any of their art as wallpaper.  This campaign received about a 60% response rate. Later in the year, this campaign won a best of show award at Drupal in Germany for direct mail.    • HP Inkjet Division Inkjet Web Product Ambassadors.  Our location was a testing ground for the HP T300 Inkjet web technology. The project required  10 months working directly with HP technology in Corvallis bringing inkjet web technology to the commercial printing space for variable composition data driven printing. Projects included  marketing collateral, symposiums, technical sales support, client surveys, data collection, developing application specific sample projects. Software Architect / Technical Pre-sales Premier Lawnscapes of Texas 2008 to 2010 I served as the technical resource for the business development team. The software we developed was an enterprise  workflow automation solution focused in and around marketing technology. We turned over 60% of our technology  driven presentations into new business.  My responsibilities include:  • Completing/determining the technical requirements for RFP's or needs/opportunity assessments.  • Provide direction for all technical aspects during the sales cycle.  • Develop statement of works, process diagrams, resource recommendations, project plans.  • Organizing and delivering both online and in person presentations with marketing managers, purchasing  managers, and c-level executives.  • Analyzing new technologies and making determinations on how to improve or extend our products.  • Hands-on development of all proof of concept software using SQL, ASP.NET, C#, IIS and other third party  tools. Software Developer Advanced-Online.com 2003 to 2008 2  I managed a group of six employees that included graphic artists and software developers. We sold a B2B, B2C  corporate brand management package to Fortune 1000 clients. Our online system managed company stores, employee loyalty programs, uniform programs, and affinity stores. During my tenure the company grew from 4  million to 9 million and had an 11% profit margin.  Responsibilities included:  • Ownership of the marketing plan which included: collateral, email and direct mail campaigns, news  releases, and websites, presentation materials, training.  • Developing the intranet which included CRM system for prospecting, production tracking, quality analysis, email marketing, product management, and all reporting.  • Acting as subject matter expert for software and technology.  • Developing and managing software project plans as well as RFP's, SOW's, and system documentation.  • Streamlining production processes for various manufacturing centers.  • Managing corporate branding through the application of technology for over 60 Fortune 1000 clients. Software Developer NCH Corporation 2001 to 2003 My time at NCH Corporation was spent as a software specialist supporting the sales team for several companies under the corporate umbrella. My experience as a UI designer, strong SQL experience, and graphic artist made me  the primary technical person for the business analyst team when proof of concept development was necessary.  My responsibilities included the following:  • Building applications using the Microsoft .Net Framework, Active Directory, and Commerce Server.  • Migrating large enterprise wide software systems from mainframes to Microsoft Technologies (SQL  databases, custom business layer)  • Development of the sales intranet, global translation engine, printed catalog automation, and content  management systems. The sales intranet became the primary tool for: order entry automation, sales  collateral personalization, sales reporting, technical support, MSDS, and training.  • Development of all proof of concept needs.  • Active participant on professional services team. Education Associates Degree in Business Marketing Brookhaven College - Addison, TX Skills MARKETING, MARKETING DEVELOPMENT, PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT, B2B, B2C, DIGITAL DESIGN, SEO, DATA ANALYTICS, FLASH, AJAX, ASP, CSS, DHTML, ASP.NET, C#, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, VB.NET, VBSCRIPT, UI DESIGN, Account Management, Sales, Salesforce, Cold Calling, Data Entry, Asp.Net (3 years), Multilingual Links http://linkedin.com/in/tim-chapman