Software Developer (Java Developer) <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> (Java <span class="hl">Developer</span>) Software Developer (Java Developer) Marysville, OH Work Experience Software Developer (Java Developer) Honda Motor Company, OHIO July 2016 to July 2016 Designed and developed microservices applications for internal and commercial use using Agile methodologies, including websites, standalone applications APIs. Integrated and mapped relational databases and wrote efficient queries in Sql DECADE INT Pvt - Kathmandu, NP March 2013 to July 2016 Kathmandu, Nepal • March2013-July 2016  • Ecommerce Shopping Application The application is like engines that keep Online store running smoothly. I worked for Order tracking, Product Display, registration System.  Responsibilities  ? Create (ERP) Developed and maintained data interfaces between accounting, e-commerce and warehouse management systems  ? Participate in project planning with project manger and team members to analyze business  requirements, design documents using UML diagrams and translate it into working software by domain driven design and prepare manuals.  ? Developed application using N-tier architecture composed of presentation, domain, service and data layers.  ? Used SMTP to send mail notification to users and SMS to send alert notification using SMS gateway.  ? Used log4j to configure and customize logs.  ? Used SVN to implement version control and PMD to analyze source code.  ? Developed front-end using JSP, Html, CSS, Apache Tiles as template engine along with Javascript, jQuery, Dojo plugins for interactivity and AJAX calls. Back-end was supported by Struts2 for MVC, spring for Dependency Injection, AOP and transaction, Junit for unit testing, named parameter JDBC template to query database, MySQL as database.  ? Participated in Daily Scrum stand up meeting to clarify and update about individual progress, and issues, exchanging roles to lead scrum meeting.  ? Provide guidance and training for new team members by teaching standards and coding structure of company.  ? Use java Spring MVC for backend support and Cloud hosting micro services in Spring Boot for Product catalogue, Order tracking and Special Offer. Use Apigee to Design, Secure and deploy API.  Technologies Used: AWS, AngularJS2, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS, jQuery, AJAX, Spring (MVC, Boot, DI, Security, Web Flow, AOP, Data), Tiles 3, JSP, RESTful, Hibernate, KeyCloak, Python, MongoDB, Spark, Mockito, GitHub Education Bachelor of Science in Electronics & Communication Engineering in Embedded System Design Tribhuwan University - Kathmandu, NP 2012 Master of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science Texas Tech University - Tech, Texas, US