Software Engineer <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Software Developer - International Gaming Technology Austin, TX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Engineer Longhorn Health Solutions - Austin, TX June 2018 to Present • Responsible for the design, specification, installation, programming, calibration, preventive maintenance, troubleshooting, and repair of automation equipment in order to improve company operations and reduce total operating costs.  • Work with leads from all departments to develop new and useful tools to stream line work flow Software Developer Longhorn Tech Services Inc - Austin, TX March 2017 to May 2018 • Working with a small team to move our legacy web app from classic asp to asp.net.   • Redesigning and proving documentation for all current applications within the company to make cleaner and easier to maintain.  • Introducing new technologies to help renovate existing applications and bring code up to industry standard.  • Helping provide requirement gathering, analysis, and time estimating. Software Developer International Gaming Technology - Austin, TX June 2015 to October 2016 • Lead for the Washington lottery OLPM (Online Products Management) conversion project.  • Worked on full stack development, including user interface development, for large volume lottery gaming systems.  • Worked with a talented group of software engineers to provide software needs to large lottery based businesses all over the world  • Performed unit and integration testing on software. Also worked directly with QA to ensure the software met very strict lottery industry specific requirements   • Continuously provided 24hr support to all lotteries for any real time issues that might arise. Frequently on support calls for deployments and outages.  • Responsible for creating release notes for each software deployment to describe, in as much detail as possible, the changes that were made to the code for a given deployment Software Development Intern Tyler Technologies - Lubbock, TX June 2014 to August 2014 • Created an application in C# that would generate working COBOL code by dragging and dropping the elements you would like to have in the COBOL form. When completed it would generate the form using the specifications given by the user.  • The application allowed for easy addition of any other tools the user would like to add by using templates.  • Used XML to allow the user to include COBOL libraries into the generated application.  • Enhanced application to give the ability to drag and drop components and allow editing of properties for those components.  • Participated in a company hosted 24 hour coding contest where I created an application that would expedite resolving common support issues for support staff.  • Participated in daily scrum meetings and pointing meetings. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science Texas Tech University Lubbock - Lubbock, TX May 2015 Additional Information Skills  • Languages: Java, JavaScript, C#, COBOL, C++, Python, 80x86 Assembly  • Databases: MySQL, SQL  • Web Development: Struts, Jboss, Java Servlets, XML, HTML  • Other: Astah, Unix, Unity, Visual Studio, Eclipse  • Source Control: Subversion, GIT