Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer - Hamer Enterprises Work Experience Software Developer Hamer Enterprises - McAllen, TX February 2017 to Present Plan for solution development using the application development life  cycle and methods such as agile.    ? Maintain, develop and improve the performance of existing software  ? Clearly and regularly communicate with management and technical  support colleagues  ? Design database schemas for client needs.  ? Prepare data for application use.  ? Test and maintain software products to ensure strong functionality and optimization  ? Recommend improvements to existing software programs as necessary.  ? Produce documentation for developed solutions.  ? Maintain an up to date repository of versions.  ? Attend planning meetings and engage in discussions on how to produce the best possible solution to a client need. Sales Consultant T-Mobile - McAllen, TX February 2016 to February 2017 Services existing accounts, obtains orders, and establishes new  accounts by planning and organizing daily work schedule to call on existing or potential sales outlets and other trade factors.  ? Adjusts content of sales presentations by studying the type of sales  outlet or trade factor.  ? Focuses sales efforts by studying existing and potential volume of dealers.  ? Submits orders by referring to price lists and product literature.  ? Keeps management informed by submitting activity and results reports, such as daily call reports, weekly work plans, and monthly and annual  territory analyses.    ? Monitors competition by gathering current marketplace information on pricing, products, new products, delivery schedules, merchandising  techniques, etc.  ? Recommends changes in products, service, and policy by evaluating  results and competitive developments.  ? Resolves customer complaints by investigating problems; developing  solutions; preparing reports; making recommendations to management.  ? Maintains professional and technical knowledge by attending  educational workshops; reviewing professional publications;  establishing personal networks; participating in professional societies.  ? Provides historical records by maintaining records on area and customer sales.  ? Contributes to team effort by accomplishing related results as needed. Software Developer Mendoza Technologies - McAllen, TX January 2016 to February 2017 Develop and implement new software programs  ? Maintain and improve the performance of existing software  ? Clearly and regularly communicate with management and technical  support colleagues  ? Design and update software database  ? Test and maintain software products to ensure strong functionality and optimization  ? Recommend improvements to existing software programs as necessary Education Information Technology South Texas College - McAllen, TX July 2016 Skills Application development, Application server, Html, Javascript, Db2, Eclipse, J2ee, Java, Jndi, Java server faces, Struts, Css, Web server, Websphere, Life cycle, Rational, Rest, Soap, Apache, As400, MYSQL, Git, Jquery, HTML 5, PHP, Android Groups Rio Grande Valley Technology Association July 2019 to Present To connect all Information Technology sectors within our region through collaboration, networking,  influencing education, and strengthening our community by promoting our local resources. Publications Projects 2019-01 Projects:  1. TRANSACTION TRACKING APPLICATION. A two part solution for tracking the status of a payment transaction through the payment cycle.   2. Internal Interface:   3. This part of the solution consists of an admin screen for our collections team. It lets them see what stage of the payment process a transaction is on (submitted, rejected, in-collections etc..).  4. In addition , the collections team can update and resubmit a transaction view NACHA processing.   5. Client Interface:  6. This part of the solution allows our client to view their transactions , any notes our collection team has entered, view requests from the collections team and reverse a transaction in their system. The information is synchronized via API calls.     1. CHANGE OF INFO REQUEST APPLICATION: This solution is a web application / service utilized by multiple applications to collect, review and approve/reject COI requests from the end user. Related components are:  2. End User Interface:   3. Integrates with existing web applications via client side packaged library to locate user account information. Provides a request form which is submitted to the web service.   4. Admin Console:   5. Provides a web interface for clerks to review and process COI requests. Interfaces with COI application via packaged library which provides authentication / authorization services for logged in users managed by a token based system.    1. IVR SYSTEM (INTEGRATION): Developed an interactive voice response system using a third party service to provide phone payment solutions to our clients.   2. Created an API which the IVR system uses to look up account and account balance information.   3. Created an API which accepts payment / account information and creates a payment order for the requested amounts.  4. IVR , after confirmation , then submits payment.     1. TASK SCHEUDLER: Executes Java or SQL jobs as configured by the user. Provides user interface to administer scheduled jobs and view job results / logs.  2. Utilizes Java threads to execute concurrent scheduled jobs.   3. Two packages are available for this solution (core and web):  4. The core package includes all the essential functionality to manually schedule and run a scheduled job.  5. The web component is a Web Fragment Project .jar which provides the optional web admin interface. Implemented as a single HTML tag.   6. Messaging System: Provides messaging solutions for in-house applications.    7. Integrates with the Task Scheduler (listed above) to prepare and send queued messages.   8. Provides a templating system for custom message presentation.   9. Provides message delivery failure notifications to administrators.   10. Supports email and SMS notifications.   11. BILLING SOLUTION (PAYMENT AND REFUND MODULES): Provides a billing solution where bills can be created and maintained. Provides payment processing functions.   12. Payment Module:  13. Process payments and allocates payment amount to available bill items.   14. Refund Module:  15. Tracks customer deposits and available credits. Dispurses customer credit as check , cash or reapplied as payment.  16. Refunds and Payments can be reversed, essentially back-tracking all records created in the system for any given transaction .   17. REPORTING SYSTEM: Global reporting system. Currently implemented as a task management reporting solution.   18. Can be configured to a specific data source and can report on multiple columns , tables.   19. Supports multiple levels of reporting / aggregation by specified columns (recursive). Additional Information SKILLS  The skills I have attained have been gained through employment as a full  stack developer at a fast paced company where I develop enterprise level  applications for the public sector.  Through my current role, I have gained the skills necessary to develop  systems that focus on account management, (i.e., the effective management  and presentation of customer data) and payment processing. The latter of  which deals with CPI and the related protocols for the transfer of money from  point A to point B.  The applications I have developed are consumer facing, account  management, e-commerce applications built around a central payment  processing system. These applications enable our clients to manage customer  account data, provide account status, collect payment and mitigate returned  transaction through collection efforts. In addition I have developed internal  applications that qualify as support applications dedicated to the  preparation/migration of data for the main application to consume.  Some of the products I have worked on include: a tax management system, a  public utility account management system, a probation reporting system, an  over-the-counter cashier system and a transaction management system.  These applications must manage all client data and allow their customers to  process payments.  I work in development, test and production environments and have taken  projects through the full application development life cycle.  Some of the technologies I work with include: Java, J2EE, Java Naming and  Directory Interface (JNDI), Java Server Faces, SOAP and REST APIs, Struts,  JavaScript, HTML 5, CSS, IBM DB2, AS400, Rational Application  Development, Eclipse, Websphere Application Server, Apache Web server.