Software Engineer <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Software Engineer - Intimetec visionsoft pvt ltd * Having 2+ years of experience as Software Developer.  * Proficient in developing applications using Java, Spring, Hibernate Nodejs, Oracle, Mongodb, AngularJs  * Proficient in connecting Java program with database using JDBC, Hibernate, Spring-ORM and Spring-JDBC.  * Active participation in applications requirement analysis, design and implementation, integration.  * Good analytical skills to understand the client requirement and develop application.  * Work Experience in Client/Server and application development using Java, Nodejs Technologies.  * Good Team Player and also ability to work as individual contributor.  * Fast learner and adaptive to learn new Technologies. Work Experience Software Engineer Intimetec visionsoft pvt ltd October 2017 to Present Software Developer Marlabs software pvt ltd October 2017 to Present Team Size: 8  Description:  Cartos is a cloud-based, fleet design and asset utilization tool for Managed Print Service (MPS) providers. It allows MPS providers to optimize sites, gain more control on print services, and provide more efficient costs, maintenance, and resource utilization.    Cartos showcases a simple user interface (UI) & workflow for broad user adoption, yet is powerful enough for fleet designers and is designed to coexist with current HP MPS systems & workflow. It allows the visualization and optimization of MPS fleets through every phase of the MPS: pre-sales, fleet design, fleet deployment, service technicians, post-sales, and obsolesce life cycle. After establishing a need for fleet design, the Fleet Designers access Cartos and create a project. Next, a Data Collector Agent (DCA) software is installed on the client side to gather the fleet data. The DCA tool runs for a set period (typically 7-10 days) to gather the fleet data from within the customer's network. After gathering the fleet data and the floor maps, the Fleet Designer uploads their projects into Cartos. Assets can then be plotted on each floor.    Fleet Designers can now design and optimize the projects based on client requirements. They can also optimize their systems by adding device dispositions in scenarios where the asset adjustment is required.    Roles & Responsibilities:  • Involved in developing Scripts for back end.    • Involved in working on migration script, microservices.    Environment: Node Js, Java, Angular Js, Oracle DB, Mongo DB, WebStorm, JSON.    Project Name#: Plugleads Software Engineer Marlabs software pvt ltd January 2017 to Present 2017 to  Oct 2017. Software Developer Marlabs software pvt ltd - Bengaluru, KARNATAKA, IN January 2017 to October 2017 Team Size: 6  Description:    Plugleads is cloud based Software as a Service (SaaS) application where tenants can create and run their email campaigns. Email campaigning in Plugleads will be done using Virtual Business Development Executive (VBDE). VBDE is a licensed software program which will handle all spam filters and send mails to the users and read responses.  Once tenant admin registers to Plugleads, he/she will get access to Plugleads tenant control panel where he can setup mail servers, organization chart and create users based on organization chart.  Tenant admin will give access to any of following services to the users.  Manage Campaign  Purchase License  Manage Leads  Once tenant user is created, he/she will get access to Plugleads tenant user console where he can login and based on his access permissions he can perform respective actions.  Roles & Responsibilities:  • Involved in service layer components by using Spring.    • Involved in Dao layer by using Hibernate.    Environment: Java, Spring, Hibernate, Oracle DB, Eclipse, Tomcat.    Declaration:  I hereby declare that all the above mentioned details are true to the best of my knowledge.    Date:  Place: Bengaluru (Abhhiram) Education M.Tech in Computer Science Engineering Keshav Memorial Institute of Technology Additional Information Professional Skills  * Programming Language: JSE7, Node JS  * Server Technologies: J2EE, Spring MVC  * Frameworks: Spring, Hibernate  * Database Access Technologies: JDBC, Hibernate, Spring-JDBC  * Web Services: Rest  * Databases: Oracle, MongoDB  * Tools: Eclipse, Maven, WebStorm,  * Application Servers: Tomcat    * UI Technologies: AngularJs, HTML and JavaScript