Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer - Pangea Long Beach, CA Proficient    Familiar    Skilled in front-end and back-end technologies. Strengths include Web Development & Console Apps  HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS, AJAX, JSON; C#, LINQ, ASP.NET,  Web Forms, Web API, REST API; T-SQL; Visual Studio, SQL Server, TFS  MVC5, PHP, ReactJS, Objective-C, Swift, Xcode, iOS, Git, GitHub, CLI, Agile, Scrum Work Experience Software Developer Pangea - Gardena, CA March 2016 to Present Report directly to CTO to develop key new user-facing features for flagship B2B SaaS web-application. Produce secure, readable, extensible code in a high-pressure, business-critical environment.  • Optimize existing code-base to improve run-time and page-load speeds by up to 43% faster perf.  • Build entire new web pages from top to bottom- frontend HTML, CSS and JavaScript through backend SQL data channels. Facilitate seamless user interaction and ensure data fidelity. Regularly receive high marks from top management for web-page usability.  • Design complex yet efficient client-side operations via ASP.NET C# and AJAX to minimize trips to server and enhance User Experience; write new and optimize existing backend API procedures.  • Swiftly respond to, investigate and solve bug reports, often starting with minimal bug reporting.  • Promoted to Lead in Jan. 2018. Manage development team's specs, progress and code accuracy. Software Developer Datalus - Los Angeles, CA September 2015 to March 2016 Contract role. Worked closely in fast-paced agile development team to prototype client's web-app.  • Swiftly grasped and optimized team conventions to design re-usable code schemes that became team blueprint; e.g. light-weight HTML DOM structures and sleek SQL stored-procedure templates.  • Successfully implemented frameworks such as Bootstrap and AngularJS to create highly interactive and responsive web-pages, as well to facilitate cross-browser and -device compatibility. Education General Education Rio Hondo College - Whittier, CA March 2010 to October 2012