Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Co-founder - DIADOZ Charles Town, WV Work Experience Software Developer DIADOZ September 2018 to Present o Co-Founded a design studio with a focus on digital curation, retail, and multimedia publication showcasing local talent.  o Built a website for DIADOZ using MongoDB, Express, Angular 6 and built on NodeJS, built a Content Management System for the website to allow more design freedom and not restrict our template patterns. Created a Restful API using Express' router to  pull from a MongoDB collection.  o Used promotional videos, designed graphics, and used targeted online marketing to increase new users by 22%. Used Google  Analytics to monitor usage. software engineer Cinteot Inc May 2015 to August 2018 o Remotely developed a monitoring system out of Node.js to visually present the security posture of an organization. Versions  3.0-3.2 of the application were created using AngularJS version 1, utilizing the AngularJS controllers for each component, while later versions were rewritten in React to modularize development of each component and implement newer technologies.  o Used Highcharts to plot dynamic data for user visualization and moved to D3.js once React was implemented in later versions for more visual flexibility.  o Developed RESTful API in Scala using the Play framework, was used with ElasticSearch for an optimized filtering and searching  option.  o Developed an ASP.NET application using MVC framework w/ Razor. RESTful API written in C# and used SQL stored procedures for data retrieval.  o Implementation of Cesium for plotting of temporal data. Same data points mutated to render as shapes within a timescale that  determined the range of elements using D3.js.  o Improved performance on data retrieval and rendering through optimization of restful services. software developer intern DMI Inc May 2014 to August 2014 o Developed a database application under the .NET framework consolidating all personnel's information, past projects, and skill  sets in a central searchable location.  o Sped up the creation of work groups for U.S. Coast Guard and DMI projects by going from physical paper documents to a searchable data set. Search and filter queries, as well as the CSV export feature were built in LINQ.  o The RESTful API built with C# which allowed the data driven application for dynamic updates to the front-end using jQuery, HTML and CSS. New data was automatically pulled from the database as users could enter new skills and projects, they were  part of. New hires and users could add information through a form which would then populate the database. Education BS in computer science Shepherd University May 2015 Skills Javascript (4 years), TypeScript (2 years), C# (2 years), Angular (3 years), HTML (5 years), CSS (4 years), Asp.Net (3 years), Front End, Front-End, UI, CSS3, HTML5, Node, UI, Cesium (1 year), Angularjs