Jr. Software Developer Jr. <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Jr. Software Developer - JPA, Hibernate, Web • Having 2+years of experience in Software Development.  • Excellent in understanding the Business Requirements and providing the best  possible solution for the same by keeping track of Business Demand, Quality,  Technical Limitations and Timeline.  • Good Team player and also have ability to work independently.  • Quick learner, excellent in learning new technologies.  • Easily mingle with any environment and hardworking nature Work Experience Jr. Software Developer JPA, Hibernate, Web April 2018 to Present Project Description:  • Base3.X is multi-tenant based SaaS distribution management system which provide the end-to-end operations management platform that helps organizations "change" and "run" the business effectively.    • It provides the flexibility to control the services on the basis of user's role.    • It uses various technologies like Spring (Core, Boot, OAuth2), Web Services (REST  API), Angular-6.    Responsibilities:  • Delivering code on the various technologies implemented in the project.    • Developed Restful Web Service to implement various features and Bind it with UI.    • Methodology followed is Agile.    Project Name: Delta Verge  Methodology: Agile  Technology: Core Java, Spring framework, Spring Boot, Spring Security Oauth2, Web-  Services (REST API), Mongo DB, Polyglot, Xamarin, Zendesk. JPA, Hibernate, Web April 2017 to Present Technical Skills  Languages / Framework: Core Java, Spring (Core, MVC, Spring Boot), JPA, Hibernate, Web-  -Services (REST API), Xamarin.    Web Technology: Servlet, Angular 6.    Database: Mongo DB  Tools / IDE: Eclipse, Visual Studio Code Editor, Visual Studio Enterprise, Robo3T  Git, SVN, Zendesk (Third Party ticketing tool).    Project Details  Project Name: Base3.X    Methodology: Agile  Technology: Core Java, Spring Core, Spring Boot-2, Spring Security Oauth2, Web-  Services (REST API), MongoDB, PostgreSQL, Angular-6, Flowable, BPMN. Junior Software Engineer Wipro India Present Jr. Software Developer JPA, Hibernate, Web April 2017 to March 2018 Project Description:  • A multi-tenant mobile based SaaS distribution management system for Telecom and  Equipment Rental Domains  • It is used to tracking sales-operations and inventory in near-real time with geo- enablement for sales and after-sales / after-market distribution.  • It uses various technologies like Spring (Core, Boot, OAuth2), Web Services (REST  API), Xamarin, Zendesk.  Responsibilities:    • Delivering code on the various technologies implemented in the project.    • Developed Restful Web Service to implement various features and Bind it with UI.    • Methodology followed is Agile. Education B.Tech Jodhpur Institute of Engineering & Technology