SOFTWARE ENGINEER <span class="hl">SOFTWARE</span> ENGINEER SOFTWARE ENGINEER Cudahy, CA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience SOFTWARE ENGINEER EDGE TECHNOVATIONS LCC January 2016 to September 2018 Began working as a contract Unity3D Developer designing and writing source code for multiple applications for Desktop and Mobile Platforms. My primary responsibility was to implement game mechanics using C# based on software specifications and wireframes. In the beginning of 2018, I was converted to a full time employee until the company had to lay off the team due to financial trouble. In 2018, I had the opportunity to lead the development of a series of training simulations, for delivery via WebGL, on a project for World Bank Global. The focus being to train bank employees in how to handle dangerous situations when on high-risk business travel. GAME DEVELOPER ADVENTURE WORKS LCC February 2017 to November 2017 I was hired as a contract game developer on a project for the upcoming release of the Princess Cruises Port Everglades Ocean Medallion interactive games and experiences for Carnival Cruises. I led the initial development of the Tagalong Gateway, in Unity3D, which is a massive seamless video wall interactive that allowed cruise ship guests to meet and walk by their "tagalong" avatars when boarding their cruise ship. After receiving full approval to convert the prototype into a production application, I remained to be the primary developer among a small team of two other software developers, a senior developer, and a 3D Artist. Throughout the development of the interactive, I owned the responsibilities of: dressing the concept scenes, A.I. state machine behavior and logical pathing, animation design and control of all avatar characters, all scenario based events, the creation of master controllers to keep track of and control all tagalongs in scene.    Languages & Tools I've Worked With:  • C#, C++  • Perforce, Git  • Unity3D  • Visual Studio, Mono Education Bachelor's in Computer Science Art Institute of California-Argosy University Hollywood