SQL/PLSQL Developer SQL/PLSQL <span class="hl">Developer</span> SQL/PLSQL Developer - TATA Consultancy Services Reynoldsburg, OH Work Experience SQL/PLSQL Developer TATA Consultancy Services - Milford, OH June 2018 to Present A highly motivated, technical, analytical, detail oriented and career driven professional with experience in analysis, design, development and implementation as SQL/PLSQL Developer working on Oracle RAC platforms A change agent offering years of experience in Maven Build Deployment/Processing and testing new software releases using Black-Box, White-Box regression techniques, JUnit and Mockito frameworks, while working in a JAVA/J2EE, SQL, MongoDB, Spring MVC, AngularJS, jQuery, CSS3, HTML5, and JavaScript environment. Ample capability to develop and design applications and delivering high-availability and performance. Strong ability to support continuous improvement by investigating alternatives and technologies and presenting these for architectural review. Excellent organizational, communication (verbal and written) and problem-solving skills. Capable of multitasking and remaining professional in fast paced environments. Possess time management and interpersonal skills.    TATA Consultancy Services, Milford OH June 2018- Present  Front End Web Developer  ? Work with the microservices architecture on RESTFUL API design and dockerize the complete full stack application  ? Developing the various JavaScript tools/technologies front-end code using latest Angular 6, HTML, CSS, TypeScript, and bootstrap  ? Collaborate with designed and Backend developer to implements and improve features  ? Attend daily meeting on VCTS and participate in the technical analysis and evaluation of new technologies, products and products enhancement.  ? Develop both front-end and backend to implement internal application for client to POC application as well as use the latest technology like docker and docker compose to integrate into latest apps. Jr. Software Engineer AMERICAN EXPRESS - Phoenix, AZ January 2016 to April 2017 Successfully designed consumer travel rewards user interface utilizing various technologies like Angular JS, jQuery, CSS3, HTML5.  ? Proactively monitored and provided solutions to travel production issues which increased through Level 2 support utilizing the Service Now ticketing system.  ? Was responsible for checking the database log and query the result using Oracle SQL Developer.  ? Expertly debugged code for database connectivity through IntelliJ and rewrote clean code for data accuracy.  ? Performed the function of debugging, testing, maintaining and deploying the java/J2EE application using loggers like log4j for tracking errors. Education Bachelor of Science in Data Analytics in Data Analytics Southern New Hampshire University - Manchester, NH July 2018 Planning Southern New Hemisphere University - Phoenix, AZ January 2011 to July 2016 Skills MICROSOFT SQL SERVER, SQL SERVER, ORACLE, SQL, API