Development Manager, Quality Engineering Development Manager, Quality Engineering Development Manager, Quality Engineering - Symantec Santa Clara, CA ? Over 15 years of experience in Software Development, Automation and Quality Assurance.  ? Hands on Manager with extensive Experience in implementing Automation Frameworks from scratch.  ? Expertise in iOS and Android Mobile Apps Automation using Java, TestNG, Appium, Ruby, Calabash and CI/CD using Jenkins.  ? Demonstrated ability to lead and mentor QE teams.  ? Fast learner, team player with excellent leadership and communication skills.  ? Experience developing iOS app from scratch and publishing them. I developed app "Craft Stores Locator" which is live in App Store.  ? Experience submitting and publishing Android apps to Google Play  ? Masters in Computer Applications Work Experience Development Manager, Quality Engineering Symantec - Mountain View, CA July 2016 to Present • Managing and mentoring the team of SDETs for Mobile Apps. These apps provide Identity theft protection services to LifeLock members which includes Credit Monitoring, PII(Bank, Credit/Debit Cards), Transaction, Financial, Dark Web monitoring  • Hiring 'best in industry' staff and leading by example  • Providing technical leadership to Quality Engineers  • Sprint Planning for QA and Automation efforts for iOS and Android Member Apps for LifeLock  • Conducting end to end testing among multiple groups in company  • Conducting bug triage meetings/scrum meetings and prioritizing the issues to be fixed  • working with Product, UX and different engineering teams for correct implementation of the features in App  • Implemented Test Architecture with from scratch using Page Objects model, Java, Appium and TestNG  • Enabled automation to work with localized apps in different languages  • Integration with Saucelabs  • Participating in iOS/Android app code review  • Integration with Jenkins to run Smoke and Regression test jobs on regular basis  • Assigning Accessibility identifiers in iOS and IDs in Android App code to facilitate Automation  • Experience with managing iOS App certificate and provision profiles for apps  • Monitoring Fabric/Crashlytics and Sumo logic dashboard to improve the health of apps  • Using Retrofit to fetch JSON data to test  Environment: iOS, Android, Java, TestNG, Appium, Saucelabs, JIRA, Hockey App, Sumologic, Retrofit, TestFlight, xml, JSON, Xcode, iOS-deploy, IntelliJ, Git, Jenkins, JIRA, SQL, SOAP UI, Google Analytics, Singular, ADB, Rest Assured, CDN, Postman. Sr. Mobile Automation Developer Move Inc - San Jose, CA December 2012 to July 2016 • Worked as Lead Automation Developer for iOS and Android For Sale and Rentals Apps of realtor.com.  • Used iOS instruments UI Automation and Javascript  • Led projects for iOS and Android and worked on keeping developer, other groups and product management in sync  • Implemented common test architecture using page object for Android and iOS apps automation  • Used Calabash iOS and Android for Automation  • Jenkins Administration- Creating slave machines and Jobs in Jenkins  • Generating reports by parsing Instruments and Calabash output  • Used JIRA for filing bugs, sprint management  • Used Charles for capturing request response  • Used Monkeyrunner/Python for android apps  • Able to understand app code and make some changes to app, build, deploy to test it with certain parameters  • Used HockeyApp for build distribution  • Worked with Appetitive, New Relic dashboard  • Collecting crash report by HockeyApp, Xcode, ADB, device and analyzing them  • Creating Archived build and uploading it to TestFlight for App Store submission  Environment: iOS, Android, JIRA, HockeyApp, Splunk, Flurry, Testflight, XML, JSON, Xcode, Eclipse, GIT, Ruby, Instruments, Python, Calabash Cucumber, Calabash Android, Calabash iOS, Jenkins, JIRA, Charles, Monkeyrunner, Agile. Senior QA Engineer InfoVision - Mountain View, CA January 2012 to December 2012 Worked on testing Video/Audio content recognition Android and iOS Mobile Apps.  Tested for video contents of live TV, DVR and advertisement contents.  Responsibilities:  • Tested App on iOS and Android considering different environmental noise factors.  • Wrote test cases and test scenarios  • Produced bug reports  • Automation using TestQuest  • Doing analysis of different application on the basis of test result  Environment: iOS, Android, JIRA, BugZilla, TestQuest. Team Lead Infosys - Irving, TX December 2009 to December 2010 Worked on .NET web application to maintain Billing, Ordering data of Verizon. Worked extensively with Web Services, WCF services, C#, .NET, AJAX, Visual Studio Team Server, XML, Silverlight. Used MVC pattern.  Worked on Windows Mobile App Testing and Automation project for Airport Automation group in American Airlines.  Responsibilities:  • Managed offshore team of 7 and mentored them.  • Collected the requirements from client and setting up the infrastructure to conduct the project.  • Coding using .NET, C#, SQL Server 2005/2008, integration with legacy system  • Wrote test scenarios and test cases.  • Unit testing, Load testing and integration testing of application.  • Automation of Mobile Apps using TestQuest tool.  • Load/Performance testing using Parasoft tool, wrote scripts in Java. Software Developer Williams Gas Pipeline August 2009 to November 2009 Worked on Project for managing data for Gas pipelines, Generating reports, calculations related to oil and gas industry using PODS model. Wrote Server side and Client side code using ASP.NET, HTML, CSS and JavaScript. Tested the application as per load perspective and optimization of queries according to that. Worked with Database in oracle (Tables, Views, Triggers) using SQL navigator, oracle 10g. Wrote crystal reports to run on the need basis. Used Citrix server, VSS, Visual Studio2008 Software Developer MSFGlobal Solutions October 2008 to April 2009 Coding for Parcel Information System web applications using ASP.NET, C#, ArcGIS Server 9.3, ArcGIS online services, Visual Studio 2008, SQL Server 2005, Windows Server 2003, WCF. Done coding for front end, middle tier, back end. Software Developer ECOM Inc December 2006 to September 2008 Worked on GIS Web & Windows Applications using ESRI ArcIMS 9.2, ArcSDE, .NET, C#, ArcGIS Server 9.2, Arc Engine 9.2, ArcObjects, SQL Server 2005, SSIS for BMS. Wrote Stored Procedure and functions in SQL Server 2005, Also used HTML, CSS, Javascript. Software Developer Birla Group - Jaipur, Rajasthan September 2004 to December 2006 A Decision Support System for Judicious Allocation of Facilities & Resources  This is a query shell for decision making for various public facilities like Education, Medical, Drinking water, Irrigation, and Communication etc. of any area. The application supports spatial queries and the display of geographical data. The main goal of developing this application is to help the administrator to allocate the facilities judiciously. Besides this, existence of various facilities can be searched; appropriate locations for new facilities and their effective area can be marked for the ease of decision makers. This is ASP.NET web application developed using VB.NET. Also used ASPMAP 3.0, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, SQL, ESRI tools. Skills Database, Sql server, Oracle, Sql, Api, C#, Cucumber, Git, Html, Javascript, Jenkins, Json, Python, Ruby, Swift, Xml, Android, Ios, Xcode, Junit Additional Information Technical Skills:  Languages: Java, UNIX Shell Programming, Ruby, Python, C#, Swift,  JavaScript  Mobile Automation: Appium, TestNG, JUnit, Calabash Cucumber- iOS, Android,  SauceLabs  Database: Mongo DB, SQL Server, Oracle  Testing tools: Appium, Instruments, XCUITest, MonkeyRunner, JMeter, Test Quest, Microsoft Load Testing Tool, Parasoft  Other Tools/Tech: JSON, Retrofit, Splunk, TestFlight, Xcode, IntelliJ, Git, Charles, Google Analytics, BigQuery, Sumologic, New Relic, Crashlytics, Rest Assured  CI/CD Tool: Jenkins  Web/GIS Technologies: HTML, CSS, ASP.NET, C#, Web Services, XML, JavaScript, jQuery, ESRI ArcGIS, ArcGIS Server, Google Maps API