CTO CTO San Francisco, CA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience CTO BuildingChat - San Francisco, CA March 2018 to Present Built a REST/WebSocket chat based server using Django with Django-Rest-Framework and Django Channels  ? Updated existing Android code to implement REST/Websocket server  ? Designed and documented new features, and product improvements  ? Deployed WSGI/ASGI resources using Nginx as a proxy server  ? Directed a remote team of app developers to implement features/fixes and keep to a deployment schedule  ? Deployed server resources on AWS using Elastic Beanstalk, RDS, and S3  ? Designed a docker based deployment solution using AWS ECS  ? Wrote procedures for documentation, bug tracking, and task management Sr. Software Engineer LivEditions - San Francisco, CA May 2016 to December 2018 Built a REST microservice server using Django and Django-Rest-Framework on a Nginx/Python/MySQL stack  ? Worked closely with a remote team of front-end developers to implement and deploy a React front-end  ? Built and maintained linux based cloud servers  ? Deployed Django resources using Nginx as a proxy server  ? Designed a token based framework for secure communication between micro-service modules  ? Implemented JWT based authentication for front-end/app security  ? Implemented Shibboleth and LDAP single sign-on solutions for clients  ? Wrote deployment and data ingestion scripts Software Developer Self Employed - San Jose, CA May 2015 to May 2016 Work closely with clients to design website backends to facilitate future upgrades, and maintain data integrity  ? Develop full-stack, data driven websites in Django  ? Develop RESTFul APIs to allow data migrations, and provide access points for mobile applications.  ? Build and deploy Shibboleth Single Sign On Native Service Provider with Django support   ? Develop full-stack, data driven   websites in Django  ? Develop RESTFul APIs to allow data migrations, and provide access points for mobile applications.  ? Build and deploy Shibboleth Single Sign On Native Service Provider with Django support Software Developer American Board of Foot and Ankle Surgery - San Francisco, CA April 2013 to September 2015 Designed and managed updates and upgrades to asp.net websites using C#  ? Wrote task tracker Android application, implementing both internal storage, and RESTFul API support  ? Authored Django based discussion forum, deployed on a LAMP stack  ? Created a data management system to manage and track data for over 10,000 active candidates in C# with a MSSQL  backend  ? Wrote back end processes to manage work flow and data management Technical Support Manager Podiatry Residency Resource - San Francisco, CA April 2008 to April 2013 Planned and wrote specifications for website upgrades and improvements  ? Wrote specifications for sister logging site  ? Designed and wrote automation software in Python and C# Education Certificate City College of San Francisco May 2013 Skills Linux, Java, Javascript, Python (8 years), Django (5 years), REST (4 years), WebSockets (1 year), uWSGI (5 years), Daphne (1 year), Nginx (3 years), Apache (3 years), MySQL (4 years), RDBMS (8 years) Links http://github.com/JHadley1406 http://linkedin.com/in/jhadley1406