K12, Senior Software Engineer - SharePoint K12, Senior <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer - SharePoint Gainesville, VA I am a business oriented technology leader with expertise in application programming, systems design, architecture, system administration and end user support, In-addition, I have a combination of project leadership and team lead skills. During my career, I have led and contributed extensively to varied technical projects with great efficiency; meeting and exceeding customer expectations, every time.    Accustomed to the challenges and responsibilities of software development, including business needs assessment, defining technical specifications, project planning, programming, system design, database development, and technical documentation. Additionally, I have proven collaboration expertise with department heads and engineering team members for developing process automation applications to increase user productivity, efficiency and enhanced application security.    I am a resourceful problem solver with technical acumen in computer programming, application development, administration, and user support providing dynamic leadership and excellent communication skills. Work Experience K12, Senior Software Engineer - SharePoint K12 May 2016 to Present Developed new SharePoint 365 applications and maintained existing applications in both SharePoint online and on-premise SP 2013 servers. Also administered the SharePoint online 365 portal including and on-premise servers. Supported a extensive user base of several thousand employees, teachers, and support staff with everything related to SharePoint.  • Developed custom SharePoint applications using PowerApps, Angular Single-Page applications with JavaScript client side object model, REST API and JQuery. Also, used InfoPath forms for few applications.  • Developed custom reporting for SharePoint applicatios using MS PowerBI. Utilized MS Teams, Planner and Forms with the applications.  • Provided Tier 3 user support for incident tickets related to SharePoint inclduding 365 tools and resolved issues. Trained users on SharePoint site administration, usage and collaboration features including limitations. Provided subject matter expertise to senior management on technology, application optimization, integration and 3rd party software evaluation.  • Customized SharePoint list, libraries, webparts, master pages, application pages and search configuration as per business requirements/specifications, including integration and optimization.  • Developed custom SharePoint 2013/2010 workflow solutions and implemented extensive solutions for several processes.  • Maintained and redesigned existing SharePoint applications and implemented extensive enhancements with custom development. Optimized applications and substantially reduced latency.  • Migrated SharePoint applications from SharePoint 2010 to SharePoint 2013 using Sharegate and provided training for users in the new environment.  • Administered and monitored both the SharePoint online 365 portal environment and on-premise SharePoint 2013 servers. Performed regular maintenance and troubleshotting of system issues. Software Engineer Lockheed Martin February 2010 to May 2016 Developed SharePoint 2013 custom libraries, lists, workflows, content types, webparts, event receivers and InfoPath forms with .Net 4/4.5, IIS, Visual Studio 2012 and C#.  • Designed and developed several SharePoint application modules for the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), Aviation Safety Knowledge Management Engineering (ASKME) intranet application portal in SharePoint 2013. Developed custom workflow for routing, delegation and approval of mandatory aviation regulation records. Automated generation and processing of finalized MS Word document with supporting checkin and checkout of files in container. Developed custom Visual Webparts and extensively utilized JQuery for validations and UI manipulation of data and enhanced user experience for the Airworthiness Directives Development (ADD) modules. Created custom content types and site columns specific for the various worksheet. Worked on Agile scrum methodology for application development and deployment with the sprint cycles.  • Developed FAA, Airworthiness Directives for the commercial aircraft, Alternative Method of Compliance (AMOC) using .Net MVC model with C# for the extranet application implementation. Designed and development the required models, views, controllers and REST Web Services for implementation..  • Developed the Directives Feedback Application in SharePoint 2013. Designed the application framework, data access layers and interface across modules and systems. Designed and implement custom branding using master pages, page layouts, themes and style sheets.  • Configured SharePoint 2013 environment through Central Administration and PowerShell scripts.  • Worked on the Intergrated Exploitation Capability (ICE) geospatial application for NGA and remediated Java code with critical and high vulnerability findings from the HP Fortify scan.  • Developed easy to implement, customizable integration code and migrated IBM Lotus Domino databases to the MS SQL server for the FAA, Quality Management Information Technology (QMITS) application, created mapped SQL tables, Views, data dictionaries and seamlessly integrated the data processing to the SQL server, also provided several custom SSRS 20008 reports.  • Supported QAD Cebos MQ1, a COTS product for the FAA, Aviation Safety internal audits. Senior Application Developer Mission Critical Solutions May 2009 to February 2010 Provided expertise with web application development, system documentation and maintenance.  • Developed advanced JQuery and AJAX based search feature for Military Justice Online (MJO) application. Automated several MS word templates for article generation including search with detailed summary info.  • Made several enhancements to the online discussion databases; Optimized database design and code for enhanced application performance. Systems Engineer Visa Inc June 2002 to April 2009 Developed and maintained Java based applications including application support to 400+ users. Administered application servers, ESM, Veritas NetBackup and MS File Share. Counseled departmental users on various issues, including determining workflow solutions, evaluating products, and recommending new technologies.  • Designed and implemented a web based resource catalog application using J2EE technologies such as Java Servlets, JavaBeans, JSP and JDBC connecting to a MySql DBMS with Apache Web Server.  • Implemented several features, including single sign-on, AD log-in to Domino Web-enabled databases, 2-tier architecture, server cluster with failover, automatic upgrade, and deployment of Lotus Notes client.  • Installed Symantec's ESM (Enterprise Security Manager) on several hundred production servers to monitor system security. Performed server remediation to comply with Visa Inc. key controls and system security requirements.  • Aided Siebel migration to 7.1 and customization of Siebel Tools, Client and Siebel objects.  • Installed and configured Symantec BackupExec 9.0 with HP Tape Library and administered daily application/system backups for Lotus Domino databases and Microsoft File Server.  • Assessed business needs and developed reports using Actuate ERD Pro.  • Built production servers installing and configuring MS Windows 2003. Java Developer Madwolf Technology May 2001 to June 2002 Java developer involved with the application development, design and user support.  • Developed Java servlet-based search engine providing intricate array of search options: text only, series, advanced searches, including through other Web servers. Enabled engine to sort documents by date, priority and relevance.  • Created additional features allowing sending of documents to colleagues, smartlink box, rotation of recent publications, and context sensitive behavior for different types of documents.  • Utilized Windows-based API's to export data from document and save snapshot as text file. Software Developer Noblestar Systems May 1997 to April 2001 Web application and Java developer working as a consultatnt providing application development expertise, maintenance and user support.  • Developed various classes for builder packages based on system design.  • Contributed to development of Java Beans for content upload and Java Server Pages.  • Developed Java servlets. Created system sequence diagrams and models using Rational Rose.  • Gathered user requirements and developed series of enhancements to Web-based order entry reporting system. Collaborated with MCI management to determine future enhancements and strategic direction for system.  • Developed various reports for order tracking, approval, and performance statistics. Created Excel reporting agents to facilitate data export from Lotus Notes on demand and scheduled.  • Designed and developed Web-based secure extranet application to provide Patient Assistance Program data for Femara drug.  • Developed event-driven and scheduled agents to dynamically-create Web pages using HTML and embedding pertinent data.  • Implemented public-private SSL key from Verisign to provide security and extranet site authentication. Education M.S. in Cyber Security (continued) University of Maryland University College - Adelphi, MD Master of Business Administration in Business Administration Osmania University Skills JAVA, jQuery, MS VISUAL STUDIO, VISUAL STUDIO, C#, JAVASCRIPT, JSON, LOTUSSCRIPT, XML, ASP, CSS, IIS, IIS 7, ASP.NET, SHAREPOINT, ACTUATE, SSRS, SIEBEL, T-SQL, DOMINO, C