Tech Lead Tech Lead Tech Lead - Freddie Mac (USA) Work Experience Tech Lead Freddie Mac (USA) September 2018 to Present Technologies: Appian 17.2, SAIL, DB2, Core Java  The end goal of the DPS is to provide "Fit for Purpose" efficient processes supported by automated workflow tools for the Legal Team. This application is replacement of legacy DPS system.  Worked on following functionality for DPS:  - Agile Suitability: Allow agile group users to determine whether project is agile or not.  - Parse XML files: Create a scheduler to Parse XML file and store data in Appian database.  - Template Creation: There were 28 templates supported by legacy DPS, after analysis merge many templates and made it to total 12 templates. Legal analyst can select any template from drop down and Appian application creates word document and PDF for corresponding selected template. Which goes to next level review.  - Approval flow for Analyst, L1 and L2 groups: Design and develop approval flow for all roles.  - Records dashboard: Develop records and others dashboards and added to the site.  - Track Changes of each version of document: Develop a utility to track all changes by legal analyst so that L1 can see any changes done by legal analyst before approval.  - Legacy data migration: Legacy DPS has huge data and business wanted to see all those information in new DPS. Migrated all the data to new DPS application.  - Legacy document management support: provide document management for legacy documents and new DPS documents.  - SCP file transfer of final reviewed PDF: develop a smart service to transfer the file through SCP for final approval.    Responsibilities & Accomplishment:  - Discussion with business team. Analyze and Understand the requirements.  - estimates all the stories at the start of each iteration.  - work on application design and Database design to finalize the approach for each iteration.  - work with DA/DBA for all the ddl creation and review.  - Developed the SAIL form. Implementing Process model workflow for LTA automated workflow assignment.  - Build tempo reports with several interdependent filters, links to open records in a new tab, and filter the project on several give criteria etc.  - Discussion, co-ordination and sync with other team members for better integration of modules.  - Code review at the end of each iteration.  - SIT and UAT support.  - END to end responsibility of production deployment. Keep track of all key stuff for production deployment.  - Production support. Tech Lead Freddie Mac (USA) August 2017 to August 2018 Technologies: Appian 17.2, SAIL, DB2, Core Java  The end goal of the TOS is to provide efficient processes to Business supported by automated work flow tools. This application helps business to expedite the approval process at all levels (Analyst, CCRM, Manager, SPM Primary, SPM Secondary).  Worked on following functionality for LTA:  - Agile Suitability: Allow agile group users to determine whether project is agile or not.  - Approval flow for all groups: Design and develop sail forms and process model for all the roles.  - Performance Reports: develop report from LTA Manger, which give detailed information of all approved/denied requests. It also provides detailed information of type of requests and average time taken for approval for any request.  - Record dashboard: record dashboard to provide detailed information for any request any time.  - Integration with upstream: source of data for LTA application is upstream application, we integrate LTA with upstream application by calling rest service and parse the Json and store in database for further review.  - Integration with CDW(corporate dataware): connect with CDW to pull the servicer credit score. Appian business logic use the score to decide number of approvals required for any request.    Responsibilities & Accomplishment:  - Discussion with business team. Analyze and Understand the requirements.  - estimation of stories at the start of each iteration.  - Work on application design and Database design to finalize the approach for each iteration.  - Work with DA/DBA for all the DDL's creation and review.  - Developed the SAIL form. Implementing Process model workflow for LTA automated workflow assignment.  - Build tempo reports with several interdependent filters, links to open records in a new tab, and filter the project on several give criteria etc.  - Discussion, co-ordination and sync with other team members for better integration of modules.  - Code review at the end of each iteration.  - SIT and UAT support.  - END to end responsibility of production deployment. Keep track of all key stuff for production deployment.  - Production support. Appian Developer Freddie Mac (USA) November 2016 to July 2017 Technologies: Appian 16.2, SAIL, DB2, Core Java  The end goal of the Project Delivery Portal is to provide "Fit for Purpose" efficient processes supported by automated work flow tools for the IT Project Delivery Life cycle; i.e. Planning, Requirements & Design, Build, Integrate and Test, and Implementation.  The scope of project only include the Planning phase of IT Project Delivery.  Worked on following functionality for EPC:  - Agile Suitability: Allow agile group users to determine whether project is agile or not.  - LOE Provider: There are 18 impact assessment group and 18 LOE groups corresponding to each impact group. After each impact assessment task assign to corresponding loe groups. this functionality allow LOE group to enter hours in number/percentage for each resource, who will contribute hours for the project in each year.  - Modify LOE: This functionality allow LOE groups to modify entered LOE any time unless project is locked.  - Request Updates: Any time agile assessment group, impact assessment group or LOE providers can request for more information from project manager or Requestor.  - Multiple Doc Upload: Develop utility to upload/delete multiple documents for each functionality. Which enables Users have the ability to provide important supplemental documentation to the project request.  - Integration with Planview: Integration with planview to fetch resources roles, name and cost center.  - Finalize or Lock/Unlock Project Request: PM/Project Requestor have the option to lock down the project once the required prerequisites(Agile, Impact and LOE) are met. They can not see Lock Project Request until all prerequisites are met. After the project request has been locked. PM can unlock the project to allow the opportunity of assessors and LOE providers to review the changes and resubmit their impacts.  - Business Case Review: Once the project request is in Status of "Finalized", the assigned Project Manager can perform Enter Business Review Decision to finalize the project.  - Process History: Each project request retains process history of activities on the ticket.  - Project Methodology Chutes: This functionality provide capability to calculate project is Maint or Light or Full.    Responsibilities & Accomplishment:  - Developed the SAIL form for the agile suitability, LOE provider, finalized and business case review.  -- Implementing Process model work flow for agile suitability, LOE provider, finalized and business case review.  - Build tempo reports with several interdependent filters, links to open records in a new tab, and filter the project on several give criteria etc.  - Implementation design discussion and finalize the design.  - Discussion, co-ordination and sync with other team members for better integration of modules.  - Exporting application from development environment and importing it on client environment. Appian Developer ITG (Client Location) September 2016 to November 2016 Technologies: Appian 16.1, SAIL, MySQL, Core Java    The universal service Schools and Libraries Program, commonly known as the E-rate Program, helps ensure that schools and libraries can obtain high-speed Internet access and telecommunications at affordable rates.  The Schools and Libraries (E-rate) Program provides discounts on eligible data transmission services and Internet access, voice services, internal connections and managed internal broadband services and equipment for eligible schools and libraries.    Worked on following functionality for EPC:  - Appeal, Spin Change, Service Substitution and Form 500 Escalation: Escalations comes into picture during Post Commit Reviews. Only internal users can escalate. If the reviewer have any questions. They can escalate Post Commit requests such as SPIN Change, Service Substitute, Appeal, or Form 500 within the internal team to get clarifications from the respective teams..  - Respond to Appeal, Spin Change, Service Substitution Escalation: This functionality comes into picture If any Post commit request is escalated. After escalation task assign to the respective group and any member of that group can respond or further escalate if they don't have sufficient information.  - Document Management for Appeal, Spin Change, Service Substitution: this functionality was developed to upload/manage documents for Appeal, Spin Change, Service Substitution or Form 500.    Responsibilities & Accomplishment:  - Developed the SAIL form for the Appeal, Spin Change, Service Substitution and Form 500 Escalation.  - Implementing Process model work flow for Appeal, Spin Change, Service Substitution Escalation.  - Implementation design discussion and finalize the design.  - Discussion, co-ordination and sync with other team members for better integration of modules.  - Demo to client at the end of each release.  - Exporting application from development environment and importing it on client environment. Appian Developer Appian Corporation November 2015 to May 2016 Technologies: Appian 7.10, SAIL, MySQL, Core Java    The universal service Schools and Libraries Program, commonly known as the E-rate Program, helps ensure that schools and libraries can obtain high-speed Internet access and telecommunications at affordable rates.  The Schools and Libraries (E-rate) Program provides discounts on eligible data transmission services and Internet access, voice services, internal connections and managed internal broadband services and equipment for eligible schools and libraries.    Worked on following functionality for EPC:  - Entity Bulk Upload: Upload entities in bulk into system. Which helps customer to expedite the processes and now no need to created entity one by one in system.  - EDS Push: In EPC we upload many documents as proof of evidences and documents provided by applicant, we upload these documents in Appian. We provided functionality to push all the uploaded documents at customer DB.  - FRN Line Item Bulk Upload: Upload line items in bulk into system. Which helps customer to expedite the process. Which solved a big problem of customer.  - O&M support: worked for defect fixing and production support.    Responsibilities & Accomplishment:  - Developed the SAIL form for the bulk upload and FRN line item bulk upload.  - Uses sub-process to re-usability and break up large processes.  - Implementing Process model work flow Bulk upload and EDS push.  - Build tempo reports with several interdependent filters, links to open records in a new tab, grids with multi select entities, drill down to another report, etc  - Demo to USAC.  - Exporting application from development environment and importing it on client environment. Appian Developer Persistent Systems - Boarding, On, HR May 2015 to October 2015 Boarding Application provides the HR personnel a means to handle the Onboarding process for an employee right from Initiating Onboarding, performing verifications(background, medical and Reference checks) Provisioning to Orientation of the Employee. It allows the HR personnel to create and update existing data of Employee/Candidate for the system, generate Offer letter, get it digitally signed using DocuSign, initiate System allocation, Space allocation, Training requests, buddy assignment. The user can view, review, verify and confirm candidate's applications. The application also facilitates notification alerts to intended recipient.    Other features include:  - Integrated Bulk file upload tool to upload multiple documents.  - Integrated verify address.  - Integrated google voice integration for verification.    Responsibilities & Accomplishment:  - Developed the SAIL form for the verification.  - Uses sub-process to re-usability and break up large processes.  - Creating dynamic SAIL forms for end user to enter data and upload verified documents.  - Identified different actors in the systems to create different user groups and assign permissions.  - Created CDTs with one to one, one to many relationships. Created data store to save and publish entities.  - Persisting the newly entered request and then making it available to the appropriate division for approval.  - Implementing Process model work flow for verification process.  - Proving news feed notifying latest activities performed.  - Build tempo reports with several interdependent filters, links to open records in a new tab, grids with multi select entities, drill down to another report, etc  - Exporting application from development environment and importing it on client environment. Appian Developer Persistent Systems December 2014 to April 2015 Technologies: Appian 7.8, SAIL, MySQL    This application will be primarily used to generate and approve loans to be issued to a person. It is a unified solution to approve or reject loan request. Documents submission and verification done through Appian. Other features include:  - Allocate resources tasks based on availability or pre-defined rules  - Integrated Bulk file upload tool to upload multiple documents. This tool leverages Appian apis to fit in to the Appian ecosystem.  The application was developed on Appian 7.8 platform using SAIL expression and Tempo Records/reports to enable user to view reports on Mobile devices.    Responsibilities & Accomplishment:  - Persisting the newly entered request and then making it available to the appropriate division for approval.  - Created BPM workflows in Appian using the process modeler.  - Created tempo enabled forms using SAIL, design DB schema using nested CDT.  - Developing Tempo Record, Tempo Reports using including Grid Layouts for the record dashboards.  - Exporting application from development environment and importing it on client environment. Appian Developer Persistent Systems September 2014 to November 2014 Technologies: Appian 7.7, SAIL, MySQL    Fleet(Vehicle) management includes commercial motor vehicles such as cars, aircraft (planes, helicopters etc.), ships, vans and trucks, as well as rail cars. Fleet (Vehicle) management can include a range of functions like Vehicle Financing, Vehicle Maintenance,Fuel Management etc.  Vehicle Maintenance is one part of Fleet(Vehicle) Management System and our application focuses on the following aspects of Vehicle Maintenance System. it includes Vehicle Registration, Schedule Vehicle Maintenance, Schedule Vehicle Maintenance and Supervisor review.    Responsibilities & Accomplishment:  - Developed the SAIL form vehicle registration and vehicle maintenance.  - Persisting the newly entered request and then making it available to the appropriate division for approval  - Implementing Process model work flow  - Proving news feed notifying latest activities performed for any vehicle.  - Sending the Requestor email notification conveying the maintenance status of vehicle  - Providing a dashboard to view the details of vehicle, details included the vehicle maintenance status and vehicle owner details.  - Generating reports based on the expenses and vehicle type, that summarized the data in graphical and tabular forms, also allowing the user to download the reports  - Exporting application from development environment and importing it on client environment. Module Lead Persistent Systems June 2010 to August 2014 Technologies: Core Java 5.0, Servlet & JSP, EJB 2.x, Struts1.x, JMS, Java Script, DB2, IBM Websphere Application Server,Rational Application Developer    Check21/IPD is being developed to provide a secure, nationwide and interoperable check processing system that will help connect the deposit and disposition business functions associated with check payment items for banks. The mission critical part of the proposed architecture is to both receive and deliver X9.37 files in an explicit manner that align with business/mission requirements. Check21/IPD seeks to achieve these goals by: Providing a path to replacement of legacy check processing environment and Simplifying centralized business logic for all capture channels and Verifying an image is readable and matches the right electronic record with high-performance image quality analysis and Reducing risk with deployment through a component-based approach and Developing capabilities for standards-based, secure data exchange nationwide.    Responsibilities & Accomplishment:  - Leading the main component Gateway, Transaction Server of IBM Payment Director.  - Worked on enhancement of extract task of product Involved in PMR resolving, defect fixing for customer support and Mentoring team members,  - Prepared the code review document.  - Preparing the unit test cases of the applications  - Code review of team members and responsibility of delivery. Software Developer Eperium Business Solutions December 2009 to June 2010 Technologies: Java, Servlets, JSP, Intershop6.3, Eclipse/Enfinity Studio6.2 and 6.3, TOAD, Tomcat, Windows, Oracle, Html and ISML    TNT is B2C e-business product using Intershop Technology. It has the back office for maintaining the products and orders, that can be viewed from it storefront (front office). The storefront completely developed through CMS, client can change the feature (e.g. top header, middle page, left panel, footer as well as navigation menus etc.) from back office at any time, which make storefront very flexible and attractive.    Responsibilities & Accomplishment:  - Worked on modules Order Processing, newsletter Implementation, product notification, cendris implementation, Product import, CMS implementation as well as modification in existing system.  - Prepared the code review document.  - Preparing the test cases of the applications.  - Documentation of the Internal Quality Audit and the Minutes of meetings on a daily basis. Software Developer Eperium Business Solutions September 2009 to November 2009 Technologies: Java, Servlets, JSP, Intershop6.3, Eclipse/Enfinity Studio6.2 and 6.3, TOAD, Tomcat, Windows, Oracle, Html and ISML    Thema is B2C e-business product using Intershop Technology with major modules as Sellers, Buyers and Service Providers. It has the back office for maintaining the products and orders, that can be viewed from it storefront (front office). It maintains Catalogs, Products, Orders, Suppliers, Buyers, Consumers, as per the ERP package.    Responsibilities & Accomplishment:  - Worked on modules like Product import and consumer import , Requisitions & Order Processing, mail functionality, Breadcrumbs As well as modification in existing system.  - Preparing the test cases of the applications.  - Unit testing of application. Software Developer Eperium Business Solutions May 2009 to August 2009 Technologies: Java, Servlets, JSP, Intershop6.3, Eclipse/Enfinity Studio6.2 and 6.3, TOAD, Tomcat, Windows, Oracle, Html and ISML    Sellsmart is an e-commerce solution built on the Intershop 6.2. It also has elegantly managed Channels (B2B, B2C, Supplier etc.) with individual and independent modules (Catalog, Purchase Order, Order Entry and Warehouse) as well as powerful pricing mechanism & online marketing techniques.    Responsibilities & Accomplishment:  - Worked as a software Developer and involved in the development of new features as well as modification in existing  - system.  - Preparing the test cases of the applications.  - Unit testing of application. Software Developer Eperium Business Solutions December 2008 to April 2009 Technologies: Java, Servlets, JSP, Intershop6.3, Eclipse/Enfinity Studio6.2 and 6.3, TOAD, Tomcat, Windows, Oracle, Html and ISML    Tracker is an internal project of organization, which is used to track the work of any employee. Each employee fills the timesheet in hours (task that has been done by them in that week.) on a weekly basis. Tracker is used to generate the report of each employee on a monthly basis, which is used for invoice in Eperium. As well as all managers can also create the task of their team members through tracker.    Responsibilities & Accomplishment:  - Worked on modules like Product import and consumer import , Requisitions & Order Processing, mail functionality, Breadcrumbs As well as modification in existing system.  - Preparing the test cases of the applications.  - Unit testing of application. Software Developer Eperium Business Solutions August 2008 to November 2008 Technologies: Java, Servlets, JSP, Intershop6.3, Eclipse/Enfinity Studio6.2 and 6.3, TOAD, Tomcat, Windows, Oracle, Html and ISML    Sanoma is a B2C e-business product using Intershop6.2TechnologyWith major modules as Sellers, Service Providers. It has the back office for maintaining the products, that can be viewed from it storefront (front office). Sanoma homepage is implemented through CMS. This web-based application uses B2C webshops and is designed based on multiple Supply Chain Management logistic criteria's. It maintains Catalogs, Products, and Suppliers.    Responsibilities & Accomplishment:  - Worked on modules like Mailing and Product Maintenance cycle, paging.  - Preparing the test cases of the applications.  - Unit testing of application.    Declaration:  I hereby resolve that the details furnished above are true to the best of my knowledge and belief.    Date: July 30, 2019  Place: Fairfax USA (Vivek Verma) Education B. Sc. Veer Bahadur Singh Purvanchal University July 2000 to May 2003 Skills EJB, JAVA, HIBERNATE, JMS, JSP, SERVLET, STRUTS, DB2, MYSQL, ORACLE, SQL, CMVC, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, SVN, XML, JIRA, AJAX, CSS, TOMCAT