Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer - The BAZ Group Weston, OH DevOps Engineer with 9 years' experience implementing support for Information Technology solutions for Fortune 500 corporation in the healthcare insurance industry. Employing several skill sets, supported and maintained servers and software for teams with 2-10 people.  Software Developer for 20 months, supporting in-house applications and processes for small 26-person company in the telecommunication sector. Writing mostly in dot net, completed 68 enhancements, wrote unit tests, gathered requirements, and documented code.  Core competencies include Server Configuration, Software Configuration, Quality Assurance Testing, Database Query Tuning, Software Automation, Software Development, Open Stack, Cybersecurity.  CAREER HIGHLIGHTS  • Assisted in Oracle Server Migration with a budget of $1.4 M  • Completed 68 enhancements with ROI of over $20,000  • Migrated a VB6 desktop application to C# extending the life and data  • Converted VB.Net application to a secured Secure Sockets Layer domain and Single Sign On using SAML security Work Experience Software Developer The BAZ Group - Toledo, OH November 2017 to Present Toledo, OH 11/2017-Current  The BAZ Group is a small telecommunication company that provides project management and telephone bill processing. I was hired to help maintain their in-house application that was used to facilitate their telephone bill processing. I helped advise on possible enhancements, design, and future platforms.  Software Developer  I assisted the lead developer in implementing enhancements that would help the processors do their jobs as efficiently as possible.  • Database Query Tuning - this helped the program to run faster making processors' time more efficient  • Implemented MVC design pattern - original the pattern was clunky and took longer to implement any changes. By switching to this pattern, we decreased the code base allowing easier maintenance, shorter agile sprints, and overall quicker performance.  • Introduced reflection to program - before this was used there was over 100,000 lines of code, by using this technique we were able to decrease the code by 20% making it easier to look to migrating it to other platforms.  • Added functional programming - one of the many functions of the program was to read and process electronic bill, which resulted in difficult code. By adding functional programming, we created cleaner and more precise code.  • Started a testing lifecycle - before we started testing, the lead developer would write the code, test it himself, and deploy it. By testing the code through a 3rd person we not only have fewer bugs, but we have found 5 previously undiscovered bugs.  • Requirements gathering - for each enhancement, we discuss them with both business stakeholders and as a team to determine value and feasibility. As part of our Software Development Life Cycle we document both the technical requirements and our unit tests.  • Created a 100% open source web platform - if implemented would save business over $5,000 in Microsoft licensing seat cost.  • Created a simple web application based on LDAP security roles - before I created this web application it was a desktop application written in VB6. Configuration Engineer I Anthem Blue Cross Blue Shield - Mason, OH July 2008 to April 2017 DevOps)  I assisted senior engineers to maintain and gather metric health checks on Unix and Windows servers.  • Create web-based tools to determine server availability - mostly these tools were asp pages but occasionally we would write perl cgi, jsp, and asp.net  • Maintain security passwords - for an in-house application, I did password updates and resets  • Assisted in migration of Oracle Hyperion from 8.5 to 11.2 - took technical lead and advised on basic server configuration. Education M.S. in Cyber Security Devry University - Mason, OH January 2009 B.S. in Computer Science Bowling Green State University - Bowling Green, OH August 2001 to January 2008 B.A. in Spanish Bowling Green State University - Bowling Green, OH January 2000 to August 2001 B.A. in French Bowling Green State University - Bowling Green, OH May 1996 to January 2000 Skills ASP, CSS, HTML 5, MYSQL, Javascript, PHP, Git, Android, C# (5 years), Vb.Net (2 years), Java (5 years), HTML 5 (10+ years), Linux (5 years), Jquery