Senior Java Developer Senior Java <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Java Developer - Procal Technologies, Newark Township of Randolph, NJ • Around 12 years of strong software experience in design, development and deployment of web-based and Client-Server business applications using OOP, Java/J2EE technologies.  • Experience in the implementation of Core Java, Multithreading, Java OOP, J2EE Technologies: JSP, Servlets, JSF, JSTL, Struts, spring, Spring Boot, Spring Web Services, Spring Boot, React JS, Spring Integration, Hibernate, Java Beans, JDBC, Web Services, JNDI, Multi-Threading etc.  • Expert level skills on AngularJS, JQuery, JavaScript, Node.JS, AJAX, JSON, HTML, DHTML, CSS, Tiles, Tag Libraries.  • Experience in developing SOA (Service Oriented Architecture) and J2EE Web Services based on REST, REST Template, SOAP, WSDL, JAX-WS, JAXB, JAX-RPC using tools like Apache Axis.  • Proficient in applying design patterns like MVC, Singleton, Session Facade, Service Locator, Visitor, Observer, Decorator, Front Controller, Data Access Object.  • Implemented LDAP, Single Sing on Authentication SSO, OAuth, SAML.  • Expertise in XML technologies such as XSL, XSLT, XML schemas, XPath, XSL-FO and parsers like SAX, DOM.  • Experience in building and deploying applications on Application/Web Servers like Apache Tomcat, JBoss, BEA WebLogic and Jetty.  • Experience in software configuration management using CVS and SVN.  • Building a web application using Spring Boot.  • Experience in caching using coherence caching.  • Hands on experience with build tools like ANT, Maven and logging tools like Log4J.  • Good experience in various Design Patterns such as DAO, Business Delegate, Session Facade, Front Controller, Singleton, and Factory.  • Proven experience in writing Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, Functions and Packages using TOAD and SQLDeveloper tools.  • Experienced in using various IDEs like Eclipse and NetBeans.  • Experienced on Finance, Telecom, and Tour and Travel domains.  • Experience working with MongoDB.  • Experience working with No databases, such as Oracle, SQL Server, MySQL.  • Hands on experience with JUnit in performing unit test and Log4J in determining the application functionality.  • Production support-Provided development (quick fixes) and technical support for complex/ critical applications. Coordinated with other teams to resolve end-user issues promptly.  • Rich work exposure in software development with responsibilities as Team Coordinator and Team Member being involved in the project life cycle. Work Experience Senior Java Developer Procal Technologies, Newark July 2017 to Present Project: Enterprise Case Management System  Description:  Officers managing the different cases through this application. They can file a new case and process till file status close. They can manage the status of the cases such as approve, reject, next approval etc. They can notify the team member, supervisor, upper lever officer for case's status before the process the cases. Senior Java Developer Avis Budget Group - Parsippany, NJ October 2013 to July 2017 Project: Development and Enhancement of Wizard GUI application for Avis Budget Group, LLC  Description:  Avis Budget Group, LLC and its subsidiaries operate one of the world's leading car rental brands, providing business and leisure customers with a wide range of services. The project is divided into four subgroups: Fleet, Reservations & Rentals, Accounting, and Sales/Marketing: Fleet: Mainly deals with the back office functions, say acquisitions and disposal of vehicles from the manufacturers, registering the vehicles with the DMV, assigning the plates and stickers to the vehicles, tracking the orders placed with the manufacturer. Rentals: Systems fall under this category are mainly to assist the customer for their need, like reserving the vehicle, directing the preferred customers to go to their vehicle with ease. Accounting: These systems are used mainly back office to view and print the invoices received from the manufacturers. Sales/Marketing: These systems are used mainly provides Avis Corporate Awards(TM), Avis Group Sales, Avis Corporate Sales, Full Cost Pricing. Responsibilities:  • Involved in design discussions, review meetings with Avis clients and provide design and development estimates based on the complexity of the service(s).  • Developed reusable and interoperable Web service modules based on SOA architecture using SOAP and RESTFUL  • Developed the service layer, a layer that acts a bridge between the presentation layer and data access layer, with spring framework.  • Building a application using Spring Boot.  • Developed applications using Application Lifecycle Management to deliver reliable applications.  • Implemented Spring Dependency Injection (IOC) feature of spring framework to inject beans into User Interface and AOP for Logging  • Configured development environment using Weblogic application server for developers integration testing.  • Implemented module with MongoDB.  • Created modules using micro services.  • Implemented LDAP, Single Sing on Authentication SSO, OAuth, SAML.  • Developed the view-controller components using Servlets/JSPs, AngularJS, JavaScript, CSS, HTML and DHTML.  • Implemented Coherence cache to increase application performance.  • Developed user-friendly interface to seamlessly combine the new module with existing login system by using AngularJS.  • Developed the JSON structure for the data transfer in between the Client and Server layer.  • Developed unit testing frame work using JUnit test cases for continuous integration.  • Deployment web application on Application server using Jenkin tools.  • Agile development process (Scrum, Sprint)  • Production support to end user of this application.  • Testing and used JTest Tool for performance testing.  Environment: Java, Multithreading, Java OOP, J2ee, Servlet, MVC, Spring 4, Spring Boot, AngularJS, JQuery, JavaScript, XSLT, Spring Web Services, REST, REST Template, SOAP, Scala, React JS and Micro services, XML, JUnit, Hibernate 4, JDBC, JNI, AJAX, JSF, JMS, Maven, Coherence cache, Log4J, MongoDB, Oracle 10g, PL/SQL, Weblogic Application Server, Jetty. Java developer Clairvoyant Tech Soft Pvt Ltd - Mumbai, Maharashtra May 2011 to September 2013 India  Project: Development and Enhancement of Wizard GUI application for Avis Budget Group, LLC  Description:  Location Database Application:- This application is use to manage location database through UI pages. Agent can manage particular location information using this application.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in design discussions, review meetings with Avis clients and provide design and development estimates based on the complexity of the service(s).  • Developed reusable and interoperable Web service modules based on SOA architecture using SOAP and RESTFUL.  • Developed the service layer, a layer that acts a bridge between the presentation layer and data access layer, with spring framework.  • Developed applications using Application Lifecycle Management to deliver reliable applications.  • Implemented Spring Dependency Injection (IOC) feature of spring framework to inject beans into User Interface and AOP for Logging.  • Production support to end user of this application.  • Implemented LDAP, Single Sing on Authentication SSO, OAuth, SAML.  • Configured development environment using Weblogic application server for developers integration testing.  • Developed unit testing frame work using JUnit test cases for continuous integration testing and used JTest Tool for performance testing.  Environment: Java, J2ee, Servlet, MVC, JSF, Spring 4, Struts 2, JQuery, JavaScript, XSLT, Spring Web Services, REST, SOAP, XML, JUnit, Hibernate 4, JDBC, JNI, AJAX, Maven, Log4J, Oracle 10g, PL/SQL, Weblogic Application Server, Jetty. Java developer and production support Sai Info System India - Ahmedabad, Gujarat April 2009 to May 2011 Gujarat, India  Project: SipDroid Application for BSNL, Gujarat Circle. IRCTC, India  Description:  SipDroid Application: - It's providing various functionalities like one to many Video calling over over the Internet Protocol, dash board for customer information, and dash board for billing information. Client manages the customer and billing information through this system.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in design discussions, review meetings with Sai Info clients and provide design and development estimates based on the complexity of the service(s)  • Developed the frontend and service layer, a layer that acts a bridge between the presentation layer and data access layer, with spring framework.  • Production support to end user of this application.  • Developed applications using Application Lifecycle Management to deliver reliable applications.  • Developed persistence Layer using Hibernate to persist the data and to manage the data  • Developed the view-controller components using Servlets/JSPs, JavaScript, CSS, HTML and DHTML  • Developed Hibernate configuration files and queries and Implemented DAO classes  Environment: Java, Multithreading, Java OOP, Hibernate, Struts, XML, TortoiseSVN, JSP, MVC, J2EE ,Servlet, Web Services, REST, SOAP, JUnit, Maven, JDBC, JNI, AJAX, Log4J, Oracle 10g, JavaScript, PL/SQL ,Tomcat, eclipse. Senior Software Engineer Renovau Telecom Pvt Ltd - Ahmedabad, Gujarat June 2008 to March 2009 India  Project: Renovau Billing System for BSNL, Gujarat Circle, India  Description:  Purpose of this module is to create new customer account, generate monthly bill of existing customer using jasper reports, maintain branch wise stock details and maintain customer data records by GUI.  Responsibilities:  • Requirements gathering through meetings with the field users from the from freight processing units  • Worked on the access control and visibility restrictions for the OTM system  • Fine grain access control - Table, View based security and high performance queries using SQL  • Planning and designing of Virtual Private Database on the Database system.  • Configured entity relationships, responsibilities and security profiles  • Design of the OTM Order process and post EBS order processing  • Analysis and design of the order booking and shipping execution flows  • Analysis and Process design UI for Oracle Transportation management.  • Testing review sessions and pre-production planning  • Assisting in multi-part launch of the functionality to the fields.  • Responsibilities included checking the application for memory leaks.  • Was responsible for designing and implementing Spring framework with Hibernate.  • Developed presentation layer using JSP, Servlets and performed data validation.  • Involved in developing Struts Validator frame work and wrote own custom Validator files.  Environment: Java, Hibernate, Spring, Struts, XML, TortoiseSVN, JSP, MVC, J2EE, JSP, Servlet, Web Services, REST, SOAP, JDBC, JNI, AJAX, JUnit, Maven, Log4J, Oracle 10g, JavaScript, PL/SQL, Tomcat. Software Engineer Elitecore Technologies Ltd - Ahmedabad, Gujarat January 2008 to May 2008 India  Project: CRESTEL Convergent Billing for BSNL, Gujarat Circle. IRCTC, India  Description:  CRESTEL Convergent Billing is a carrier-grade solution enabling next generation voice, video, and data services over wire line / wireless networks, offering Convergent Billing, Policy Management, and Real time Rating & Charging AAA.  Responsibilities:  • Analyzing and design requirements provided by business users  • Writing design specification and develop test cases  • Coordinating with I-POS backend, data setup and testing teams  • Developed user interfaces using JSP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery and Ajax,  • Developed SOAP based Web Services using JAXB  • Integrated Hibernate ORM to facilitate DML and DQL queries and represent OR mapping  • Used Spring Framework for dependency injection for Action classes using Application Context xml file.  • Implemented the logging mechanism using Log4j framework.  • Implemented using various J2EE design patterns such as Session Façade, Business Delegate, Value Object, Data Access Object, etc.  • Used CVS as version control system for the source code and project documents  Environment: Java, Multithreading, Java OOP, Hibernate, Struts, XML, TortoiseSVN, JSP, DB2, MVC, J2EE, JUnit, Maven, Web Services, REST, SOAP, JDBC, JNI, AJAX, Log4J, Oracle 10g, JavaScript, PL/SQL, Tomcat Web Server. Software Engineer Computer Home Private Limited - Pune, Maharashtra April 2007 to November 2007 India  Project: Payroll Processing System for Cosmos Co-operative Bank Ltd (Cosmos Bank), Pune, India.  Description:  This web application aimed to make payroll processing of bank a happy and pleasant experience as per user defined rules, an integrated planning & controlled approach to manage employee information, Leave information, Provident Fund, ESI, TDS information. It can be used for multiple banks. It provides competitive advantage by faster and relevant information at lower cost of ownership.  Responsibilities:  • Performed Application framework customization and personalization for the system, which involved Java programming, customizations and SQL & PL/SQL programming.  • Worked on the following functions: define & track objectives, allocate objectives for individuals, evaluate competencies, enable feedback & monitor the progress.  • Configured the Multi-Org hierarchy, responsibilities and relationships to Business groups  • Captured the rules around employee compensation and appraisal process flows.  • Identified the customization needs related to current business processes for HRMS system - Analysis.  • Worked on the following functions: define & track objectives, allocate objectives for individuals, evaluate competencies, enable feedback & monitor the progress.  • Performed unit testing and documentation using Technical and functional design documents.  Environment: Java, J2ee, JSF, XML, JSP, MVC, J2EE, JUnit, JDBC, JNI, AJAX, Maven, TortoiseSVN, Log4J, Oracle 10g, JavaScript, PL/SQL, Tomcat. Education Master in Computer Management in Computer Management Pune University - Pune, Maharashtra 2006 Bachelor of Computer Application in Computer Application Gujarat University 2004 Skills Eclipse, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Spring