Software Engineer - SQL Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer - SQL <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Engineer - SQL Developer Minneapolis, MN Work Experience Software Engineer - SQL Developer UCare - Minneapolis, MN May 2017 to October 2017 Created and maintained SQL scripts to massage and export data to Medicare, Medicaid, and state of Minnesota health sources.  ? Tuned queries for optimal performance.  ? Composed various mapping and reference documents regarding the data structure and data mapping processes.  ? Environment: Windows, SQL Server 2012 Database Developer IV WolfNet Technologies - Minneapolis, MN August 2008 to November 2016 Developed and maintained PHP and SQL ETL scripts for download and import of XML MLS data from over 600 sources.  ? Put together a PHP/Bash script to use as a template to create new incoming database structures with all required tables, scripts, keys, indexes, directories, and permissions.  ? Managed all critical data imports.  ? Composed scripts to make global changes to 600+ databases. These included adding fields, adjusting field data types/lengths, and keys/indexes.  ? Maintained geocoding mechanism utilizing MapQuest's geocoding web service.  ? Created XML file exports to push data to sites including Zillow and Trulia.  ? Designed data structures and stored procedures relied on by multiple APIs.  ? Created stored procedures used by front-end code for reporting and base functions.  ? Optimized existing scripts to improve performance.  ? Utilized tools such as SolarWinds and Grafana to monitor processes and performance.  ? Leveraged SkyBot Scheduler to time, monitor, and schedule data imports.  ? Maintained other assorted scripts ranging from C# to shell and bash.  ? Additional duties included nearly everything related to databases - creation of functions, views, tables, databases, permissions, indexes, optimization, etc.  ? Environment: Windows, Linux, SQL Server 2005-2014, git, PHP, C#, Python, Bash. Software Developer/EDI Specialist American Healthcare Alliance - Kansas City, MO October 2001 to August 2008 Composed inbound and outbound EDI (HIPAA 837 standard) medical claims parsing system using Visual Basic and SQL Server 2000.  ? Maintained & monitored automated parsing, FTP, and DTS mechanisms as needed.  ? Mechanisms included transfer of claims data, claim images, and custom reports.  ? Automated common tasks such as importing insurance eligibility data and exporting monthly claim data reports.  ? Composed ad hoc stored procedures and queries for reports based on requests for specific data.  ? Optimized tables, stored procedures, and queries in SQL Server 2000/2005.  ? Environment: Windows, SQL Server 2000 and 2005, Visual Basic Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Information Systems DeVry Institute of Technology - Kansas City, MO August 1998 to June 2001 Skills Database, Ddl, Sql server, Sql server 2000, Mysql, Postgresql, Sql, Visual studio, Json, Php, Xml, Datasets, Etl, Solarwinds, Bash, Linux, Edi, T-sql, Version control, Git Additional Information SKILLS  Database: SQL Server 2000/2005/2008/2012/2014, mySQL, PostgreSQL  ETL: SSIS, PHP/SQL homegrown scripts  Tools: SQL Server Management Studio, mySQL Workbench, pgAdmin, Toad, SolarWinds, SQL Profiler, Visual Studio, Notepad++, Beyond Compare, FileZilla, Workfront/atTask, SkyBot, Windows Task Scheduler  Version control: git  Languages: SQL, T-SQL, Dynamic SQL, DDL/DML, PHP, Bash  Datasets: XML, flat files, JSON, comma/tab/pipe-delimited  Data standards: EDI, RETS  OS: Windows, Linux, DOS  Project management: Agile, Scrum