Application Developer Application <span class="hl">Developer</span> Experienced Software Developer South Jordan, UT Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Application Developer ExeVision, Inc - South Jordan, UT May 2017 to Present Technologies Used    • Microsoft Visual Studio 2013, 2017  • Microsoft SQL Management Studio 2018    • Telerik UI for Ajax  • Telerik Reporting    • Bitbucket  • Azure    • OneDrive, Dropbox  • Git    • Powershell  • Jira    • WorkflowEngine.io  • Draw.io    • Fluent NHibernate    Languages Used  C#, Javascript, JQuery, CSS, Bash    Duties  Collaborate with customer department heads to define scope and buildout of new functionality for the application. Work with client to identify and resolve exceptions, UI issues, and logical errors within the  application. Hold weekly meetings with other developers and the client to discuss progress and priority  lists for concerns, future development, and changes to the existing application. Provide visual and functional specification design documents to the client for proposed enhancements to the application.  Perform production code releases after changes have been approved for deployment. Use Jira for project management, billing, and time tracking. Software Engineer Marketing and Technology Group - Chicago, IL May 2013 to May 2017 Technologies Used    • Microsoft Visual Studio 2013, 2017  • Microsoft SQL Management Studio 2018    • Salesforce API  • Telerik Reporting    • Jitterbit  • Drupal    • WCF, REST  • Apache    • NetBeans  • SVN    • Redgate SQL Compare  • Redgate SQL Data Compare    • Redgate SQL Backup  • MySQL Workbench    Languages Used  C#, PHP, JavaScript, CSS, jQuery, C#    Duties  Maintain and update existing websites for 5 different magazine brands in order to facilitate new  user registration model. Help to rebuild websites for all brands with the Drupal platform. Help to support existing web application while making the transition to Drupal. Redesign single threaded email  newsletter delivery system into a multithreaded process so that email delivery of newsletters happens  within 30 minutes of the scheduled publish time. Build REST services accessible to various applications within the company in order to facilitate daily operations going to and from the database. Integrate  Salesforce and Jitterbit into existing and new applications in order to collect and manage paid, click-  based website advertisements. Software Engineer Remedy Informatics - Sandy, UT June 2011 to October 2013 Technologies Used    • NetBeans  • Oracle SQL Developer    • Eclipse  • SVN    • Apache  • Oracle Glassfish Server    • Java    Languages Used  PHP, Java, JavaScript, CSS, jQuery, HTML    Duties  Diagnose and repair bugs within the PHP web application. Integrate outside tools into the web  application to allow rich text input. Prevent SQL injection attacks on all available input fields. Help  to develop and maintain RegistryBuilder and Configure, medical research repository database and configuration tool. Software Engineer - Contractor Robert Half Technology - Ogden, UT January 2011 to June 2011 Technologies Used    • ASP.NET MVC  • Microsoft Visual Studio 2013    • Camstar MES  • TFS    • LINQ    Languages Used  PHP, Java, JavaScript, CSS, jQuery, HTML    Duties  Develop internal ASP web page for company employee list. Design and develop a multi-language  solution for the IT group to allow all employees to report support issues to the department. Complete  2-week training session to learn customization/programming techniques for the Camstar MES platform  to utilize within the Fresenius manufacturing lines. Work with project managers from Camstar in order  to develop a customized application that will help provide automated quality control and drive the production lines for dialyzers and saline solutions manufactured by Fresenius Medical Care. Senior Software Developer SkyVantage Corporation - Riverton, UT August 2010 to January 2011 Technologies Used    • Coda  • GDS Messaging    • OAuth  • TripIt API    • MySQL    Languages Used  PHP, LassoScript, CSS, jQuery, HTML    Duties  Help support, debug, and maintain airline management and reservation systems. Perform on-site  training (in Bermuda and Alaska) for clients requiring help in using and managing their customized  reservation system. Help develop a platform to utilize GDS messages, that create and manipulate  airline reservations, through third party sites such as Orbits, Travelocity, Kayak, etc. Help redesign the Ecommerce site using PHP, HTML, CSS, and jQuery to enhance stability and functionality. Design  and implement a multiple language solution for Ecommerce customers. Help design and program an  object-oriented service platform in PHP so that the system (which is currently using LassoScript) can  offload a lot of the processing of its core functionality to the PHP services box. Utilize OAuth and the PHP TripIt API to import flight reservation information from the customer's Ecommerce website into  TripIt. Software Developer, Project Manager, Customer Support Specialist Handel Information Technologies, Inc - Laramie, WY March 2006 to August 2010 Technologies Used    • Microsoft Visual Studio  • Microsoft SQL Server 2005, 2008    • LINQ  • Entity Framework    • SSRS  • WCF, WPF    • Silverlight  • RiteTrack3    • Microsoft Visio  • XSD, XML    Languages Used  C#, TSQL    Duties  Provide customer support to agencies using the RiteTrack software application. Help design, program, deploy, and maintain the WYSIWYG RiteTrack application editor. Customize user interfaces using the  RiteTrack configuration tool. Manage, design, and deploy customer databases using MSSQL 2005,  2008. Build both custom and global reports for users to access from within the RiteTrack3 software  using SSRS. Document customer process flows using Microsoft Visio and Microsoft Word. Perform on- site Joint Application Development Sessions to determine customer use cases and requirements. Help  produce a conversion tool to bring outdated software solutions up to the latest released version. Help to develop a new Ritetrack platform (RiteTrack3) for case management that provides the customer  support team with tools that enhance the customization and workflow control processes. Education Master's in Computer Science in Computer Science University of Wyoming - Laramie, WY 2004 to 2006 Bachelor's in Computer Science in Computer Science University of Wyoming - Laramie, WY 2000 to 2004 Skills Git, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, PHP, XML, CSS, jQuery, SQL SERVER, MYSQL, SQL