.NET Developer .NET <span class="hl">Developer</span> .NET Developer - SEI Investments King of Prussia, PA SUMMARY    • Over 14 years of strong professional experience in analysis, design, development, testing and implementing Client-Server & Web based environment using Microsoft .NET Framework 4.5/4.7,.NET Core, MVC 4/5,ASP.NET, C#, ADO.NET, VB.NET, WCF, LINQ, Azure  • Experience in Application Development, Application Migration, Environment Setup and configuration, Implementing Automated Build Process, Production Support.  • Expert knowledge and proficiency using DevOps tools like Docker, Kubernets, Jenkins Puppet, Ansible, Selenium, Nagios  • Experience with Azure PaaS Solutions like Azure Web Apps, Web Roles, Worker Roles, and SQL Azure and Azure Storage.  • Experience of SDLC (Agile, Iterative, SCRUM) including SRS, Design & Analysis, Development, Implementation, Build, Deployment, Version Controlling, Testing & Post implementation &UAT issues support, migration and conversion.  • Excellent experience in deployment & configuration management.  • Experienced in domains like Healthcare, Insurance, and Manufacturing.  • Test Driven Development (TDD) and Agile Development  • Well-informed in Source Code Management using TFS and GIT and developing business reports using Microsoft Reporting Services, Crystal Reports.  • Experience in managing team for work distribution, tracking, issue resolution, Production stability and weekly updates to management,  • Worked closely with project managers in estimating efforts, timelines and risks. Work Experience .NET Developer SEI Investments April 2019 to Present Project Title: IDB (Investor Dashboard System)  Description: The IDB system is a very highly complex and integrated system communicating with different up and down stream systems. This system Caters to the needs of the clients by giving them all required features and support in order to enable them to plan and to make appropriate Business (investment) decisions.    Responsibilities:  • Involve in application requirement, design and development phase  • Developing and designing technical solutions based on reading and understanding business and functional requirements following the agile process.  • Created Azure Web Application projects, updated and deployed ASP.NET Web apps, Web Jobs using visual studio, GitHub and Azure Resource Manager.  • Design and Implement WCF services layer hosted on Windows Azure. This layer is the middle tier between SQL Azure and SharePoint online external content.  Used Ansible to manage Web applications, Environments configuration Files, Users and Packages.  • Used AZURE APP.FABRIC Message BUS to provide valuable functionality for integrating existing systems and building composite applications.  • Configured build jobs for Android and IOS applications using Jenkins.  Deployed Puppet, Puppet Dashboard and Puppet DB for configuration management to existing infra and used Puppet for automation and scheduling automated jobs.  • Created Cache Memory on Windows Azure to improve the performance of data transfer between SQL Azure and Web API.  • Using TDD Framework to develop and make code unit testable.  • Maintained high degree of competency across the Microsoft Application Platform focusing on .NET Framework, Web API, Windows Azure, AppFabric, and SQL Azure  • Develop client-side validation code using JavaScript and JQUERY.  • Create interactive web pages on JSON response using front frameworks like Angular, Bootstrap    Environment: .NET Core,C#, ASP.Net, Web API, Angular,Azure service Bus, Azure  Functions,Azure,Web Jobs, HTML, CSS, Jquery, Docker, Ansible, Puppet, Rabbit, Gulph, SqlServer, NodeJS Apple (Visible-Lightning) May 2018 to April 2019 Description: This an Agile based Project. This application was developed for Apple to support the claim filling process for their new and existing devices launched from time to time. Apple customers buys apple device and the insurance protection is given by Assurant.  This application is mixed of different technologies like .NET Core, Angular, Azure etc.    Responsibilities:  • Designed user interface for the application using ASP.Net MVC 5 and implemented business logic using C#.Net.  • Worked on TDD and agile methodology to meet timelines with quality deliverables.  • Developed presentation layer views using ASP.Net.Core, MVC 5, Angular 2, C#.Net, HTML and Jquery.  • Worked with Azure Service Bus, Search Services, Azure Functions with Azure SQL and Document DB.  • Worked on various Azure services like Compute (Web Roles, Worker Roles), Azure Websites, Caching, SQL Azure, NoSQL, USQLS, Storage, Network services, Data Factory, Azure Active Directory, API Management, Scheduling, Auto Scaling, and PowerShell Automation.  • Created Azure Web Jobs to send Notifications to customers  • Developed modules to consume, monitor and test API methods using Jquery libraries  • Developed an entity framework model and made Linq queries to connect to the database  • Proficient with Jenkins and Bamboo for continuous integration and for End-to-End automation for application build and deployments.  Environment: C#, ASP.Net, CSS, HTML5, MVC 5.0, Visual Studio 2017, Java scripts, Json, Angular, jQuery, Azure Web Jobs, Azure Service Bus, Document DB, Azure Search service, Azure Functions, bot framework, Azure SQL DB, Enterprise Library, Team foundation Server, GitHub, SQL2017. Technical Specialist Assurant Solutions November 2014 to April 2019 I worked on multiple projects during my tenure with this client. Below are the brief descriptions of each project I worked upon and their technical, business objectives. My roles are different for each project as they varied from developer to Technical Lead of the team. T-Mobile Simplification September 2017 to April 2018 Description: This was Agile based project. This application was developed for T-Mobile in order to support different subscriber plans launch by T-Mobile for their new and existing customers. ePrism application interfaces with T-Mobile systems to support the claim filling, claim generation, Reimbursements, Claim tracking, device shipments etc.    Responsibilities:  • Successfully developed and architected web application in the ASP.NET MVC5 framework.  • Designed entire framework to support Test Driven Development (TDD) by making use of Dependency Injection and Repository Pattern.  • Executed programming functions utilizing HTML4, CSS3, and Razor in the Microsoft ASP.NET MVC5 environment.  • Used Viewbag, Viewmodel and Partialview in order to achieve the data transfer in the MVC architecture.  • Used Kendo, JQuery and AJAX to create an efficient, responsive and visually appealing design.  • Collaborated with other developers throughout the project lifecycle and used TFS source control to deploy application.  • Used Action Filters for implementing user authentications, authorizations and role-based security.  • Utilized WCF RESTful service to create an interoperable web-application.  • Implemented Webgrids and Jquery UI dialogs.  • Applied unit testing by using NUnit and wrote Test cases.  • Table design, creation and optimization with MSSQL 2012. Designed, created and updated tables in the project. Experience in adding indexes to tables that need it to boost search operations for data. Experience in index rebuilding activities to low fragmentation.    Environment: C#, ASP.Net, , MVC 5, Visual Studio 2015/2017, Java scripts, Ajax, Json, jQuery, Enterprise Library, LINQ, HTML5, CSS3, Team foundation Server, GitHub, SQL Server 2012 R2, Telerik Rad Controls, NuGet Packages    Project Title: Application Configuration Wizard (ACW) Jan 2017 Till Aug 2017    Description: This application was developed so that all the configurations required to be done for different client centric projects can be done through one centralized place. The benefit of the application was to save business time and effort, eliminate redundancy, eliminate manual errors and better control of the Data.    Responsibilities:  • Worked on the Business requirements and developed the solution in Agile Methodology and continuous integration using the SDLC process.  • Participated in Enhancements, Requirement gathering, Design reviews to ensure functional and operational needs.  • Worked on developing user interfaces using C# and ASP.net and Angular4  • Worked on SQL Server 2012 R2 to create stored procedures and used these stored procedures to purge data from tables.  • Experience in Creating Tables, Views, Triggers, Stored Procedures, User Defined Functions and other PL/ SQL statements for various applications.  • Worked on internal applications for scheduling tasks to run automatically in the given frequency.  • Leveraged Windows Azure to build and host Assurant Partners applications insurance assets, leveraging all the benefits of the cloud.  • Worked with Angular4, HTML5 and CSS3 for new enhancements sections of different portals by slowly upgrading the code projects for better visualization.  • Took advantage of existing task manager in internal Application ADMIN CONSOLE to schedule takes and purge the data in the database to maintain the space in DB.  • Automated script creation using CSOM & Power Shell for record management  • Worked on creating and modifying screens in web application for binding data.  • Worked on JScript's for UI Modification and new look and fields.    Environment: .NET Framework 4.5., VB.Net, Asp.Net, SQL Server 2013, MVC 4,WCF, AngularJS Bootstrap, jQuery, Kendo UI, LINQ, Ajax    Project Title: ePrism Upgrade May 2014 to Nov 2015 (From offshore)  Nov 2015 till Dec 2016. (Onsite Location)    Description: ePrism is a Claim filling application. This project involved upgrading the existing Primary legacy application and web services to new framework using Microsoft technologies. This involved complete application code conversion/re write from vb.net to c#, rewriting business rules, converting inline queries to SQL stored procedures. Web services conversions to WCF services. QA Support, Integration testing and post production support    Responsibilities:  • Worked on the Business requirements and developed the solution Agile Methodology and continuous integration using the SDLC process.  • Participated in enhancements, requirement gathering, design reviews, and ensured design meets functional and operational needs.  • Developed User Interface and User Controls.  • Working on Claims and Agent Workspace.  • All the code was written in C# .net framework 4.5.  • Experience in Creating Tables, Views, Triggers, Stored Procedures, User Defined Functions and other T- SQL statements for various applications.  • Worked with C#.NET MVC4, Dynamic Forms, WCF, and WF for consumption by multiple internal groups.  • Performed Unit testing, prepared documentation, Debugged and fixed the errors before submitting modules to QA.  • Working on creating Rest Services using ASP.NET Web API and C#.  • Worked on web forms and data binding controls like Grid View, Data List and drop down boxes and Mapping page fields to the database fields.  • Worked on regression and integration testing before deploying the changes to production.  • Developing a MDM solution for domains, building the models in Microsoft Data Services (MDS) and creating the SSIS packages to pull data from numerous sources into MDS.    Technologies Involved: .NET Framework 4.5., C#, Asp.Net, SQL Server 2013 ,MVC 5, Code Conversion utility, ApexSQL, WCF, RestAPI, Atomic. Senior Software Engineer Zensar Technologies Ltd - Pune, Maharashtra February 2007 to November 2014 Software Engineer Larsen & Toubro InfoTech Ltd - Pune, Maharashtra December 2005 to February 2007 Project Title: Automated Program Control System (Marsh- USA)  Description:  This Application takes cares of Uploading new Policies, Performing various Business Rules  Validations, takes care of various transactions Involved in the business, generates various reports.    Responsibilities:  • Adopted 3-tier architecture for the system design, which includes presentation layer, data access layer and Business layer.  • Got Trained in Agile scrum Methodology in the development of the project.  • Trained in Coding and Testing of the 3-tier web application using ASP.Net, C#.Net, Visual Studio.Net 2008 and .Net Framework 3.5.  • Worked with ASP.NET, WebForms, Web Services using SOAP and State Management techniques.  • Involved in requirement Analysis, Architecture, Design and Development. Used UML for designing the application.  • Involved in creating complex T-SQL statements, Triggers and Stored Procedures and used Cursors, Indexes to support Data transformations on SQL Server 2005 using ADO.Net.  • Worked on Crystal Reports for presentation.  • Got trained in implementing several Classes in the application using C#.Net to call from Data Access Layer to Business Logic Layer and to Code Behind file.  • Work with various controls Telerik Controls, RAD Controls, Charts and Sitefinity  • Interacted with the Technical Lead and contributed in creation of the Technical specifications.  • Involved in Full Life Cycle Development (SDLC), provided value added services with development teams and clients throughout the life span of a project, strategic consulting; code writing; setting project deliverables; and managing complex development schedules and tasks.  • Designed and created web controls to attain uniform look and feel for the application front-end.    Environment: Visual Studio .NET2010, ASP.NET, C#.Net, WCF, ADO.NET, SQLServer 2005, T-SQL, HTML, XML, JavaScript, CSS, Windows XP, IIS6.0, AJAX , VSS, HTML, DHTML Software Developer JMK Env Solutions Inc - Pune, Maharashtra June 2003 to December 2005 Project: Web Based Reporting System  Description:  The Web Based Reporting System, Generates Various Web based Reports for Management, Clients. System uses various reporting techniques to help clients and management to Generate rich set of reports. Employer Scheduler is a windows-based scheduler for employees, The System takes care of Employee Performance, Project status, Lined up Projects etc. Generates various Reports    • Worked on the requirements and developed the solution.  • Designed and Developed User Interface, User Controls, peripherals and respective validations.  • Designed and developed various stages to retrieve the data, like User Controls, Presenters Request Commands and then back in the respective order.  • Worked on Team Foundation Server to integrate all the code.  • Written all the code in C# under Transamerica guidelines.  • Formulated solutions to speed up the procurement of required data for report generation using C#, Crystal Reports and SQL Server.  • All the UI and C# was implemented using Visual Studio 2010 .net framework 4.0.  • Designed and tested cases for all users Acceptance.    • Environment: Visual Studio .NET2010, ASP.NET, C#.Net, WCF, ADO.NET, SQLServer 2005, T-SQL, HTML, XML, JavaScript, CSS, Windows XP, IIS6.0,AJAX , VSS, HTML, DHTML Education Master's in Computer Management in MCM Pune University 2004 Bachelor's Degree in Arts Pune University 1997 Skills .net, Visual studio, Api, C#, Docker, Jenkins, .net core, Wcf, Vb.net, Asp, Css, Asp.net, Sql server, Sql server 2008, Oracle, Sql, jquery, Mvc, Html5, Jira Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/iftekhar-sayyed-6749622b Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS/TOOLS:  SUMMARY    Web Technologies:  Visual Studio 2017, .NET Core, C#, VB.NET ASP.NET, (4.6.),MVC 5, WCF, Rest API, LINQ, JS,CSS,HTML5, Angular 2/4, jQuery, EF, Enterprise Library,MicroServices,Azure    DevOps tools: Docker, Kubernets, Jenkins Puppet, Ansible, Selenium, and Nagios,Jira    Databases: MS-Access, Oracle, SQL SERVER 2008 and 2017  Third Party Services: AppFabric, CyberSource, Apple Services, Address Correct Service  Other Tools: Re-Sharper, Octopus, Nuget, TFS 2017, ApexSql, Atomic Client (UC4), SoapUI,  Postman, Fiddler, Dynatrace , EasyPDF, Infragistics components.