Senior Software Developer, Contractor Senior <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span>, Contractor Senior Software Developer, Contractor - Shutterfly Gilbert, AZ To obtain a full-time position as a Software Development Engineer writing Web based or mobile software applications utilizing my knowledge and professional experience to the fullest extent possible.    I have 17 years of professional experience in designing, developing and testing n-tier applications as well as working with automation testing frameworks. I have efficiently worked individually or in a team environment delivering high quality, scalable, and reliable products. Work Experience Senior Software Developer, Contractor Shutterfly March 2019 to Present As a senior software developer, I worked in the SBS division on the Enrollment team that printed booklets for a client. I worked on 2 applications, the first one is a legacy application that printed Annual Notice of Change booklet. The other application was a new platform using a micro service architecture that would combine 3 legacy applications into 1.  • The legacy application is a Windows Service written in .NET 4.5 with C# and MySQL database  • I added some new functionality to the application while providing support for existing functionality.  • The new application was written with .NET Core 2.2 with C#, Entity Framework, and MS SQL Server  • The micro services are a collection of RESTful Web APIs with a .NET Core service that coordinated the process workflow to print books for the client. When fully built, it would print 10-15 million booklets a year. Senior Software Developer Kar Auction Services June 2018 to February 2019 As a senior software developer, I worked for Recovery Database Network (RDN) division developing a micro architecture system in .NET Core to replace a legacy PHP application. This application provides real time data to automobile recovery agents. It also allows lenders to open cases for automobiles up for repossession and assign them to recovery agents.  • The front end is written with PHP, jQuery and Bootstrap  • The middle/service tier is currently written in PHP and being updated with a new .NET Core platform using RESTful API and micro architecture.  • The database being used is MySQL. Senior Software Developer, Contractor National General Insurance March 2018 to June 2018 As a senior software developer, I worked in the Wintel division developing a Web application for insurance compliance tracking. This application ensures that the insurance being provided for collateral on a loan complies with all of the lenders and government requirements and regulation.  • The front end is written in AngularJS 1.5.8, Bootstrap 3, and jQuery  • The middle/service tier is a RESTful API using .NET MVC Web API and JSON  • The database being used is Microsoft SQL Server, I have written and modified stored procedures for the project. Senior Software Developer, Contractor American Airlines October 2017 to March 2018 As a senior software developer, I worked in the Flight Attendants technology team within the Flight Operations Systems division. I worked on an ASP.NET MVC application that assists with the planning of a flight attendants monthly work schedule.  • I worked on Web UI development using HTML, Boot Strap 3, and jQuery.  • The middle tier and backend development consisted of a RESTful API using .NET Web API. The API was used to interact with the database which is Microsoft SQL Server using ADO.NET.  • I was also responsible for database tasks that included adding and modifying tables and creating and modifying stored procedures. Tivity Health July 2016 to September 2017 Senior Software Developer Tivity Health July 2016 to September 2017 I worked on developing the front end Web UI and backend RESTful APIs for a new application. This application allowed chiropractors, physical therapists and occupational therapists to obtain authorization from insurance companies for patient treatment.  • The Web application was written using MVC 5.0, jQuery, BootStrap 3.0.  • The backend of RESTful APIs was written using .NET WebAPI.  • The APIs used Entity Framework to interact with the MS SQL Server database. I also helped to maintain several existing Windows Services and other ASP.NET Web applications. Software Development Engineer Go Daddy Software February 2016 to July 2016 I worked on a development team in charge of maintaining the GoDaddy Windows Shared Hosting product. I helped maintain the RESTful API that would receive events/calls from the customer Web dashboard. These calls were to perform updates and changes to a customer's hosting account. The API was written in .NET 4.0, Entity Framework and a MySQL database. I worked on maintaining existing functionality while adding some new functionality. Go Daddy Software June 2003 to July 2016 Software Development Engineer Go Daddy Software October 2013 to January 2016 I worked on a team of 4 that designed and implemented an automated patching system that would patch 15,000 Linux hosting servers monthly. The application was built using C#, Python, Angular, and MySQL.  • The scheduler was written in .NET that would notify the patching system of which servers needed to be patched and when. It also synced the list of all servers in the patching system with the corporate master server list.  • The RESTful API was built using Python and handled all the database interaction for the entire patching system.  • The patching service was built using Python and would execute the full patching process on each server. It used the Fabric SSH module to communicate and execute the commands on the individual servers.  • The dashboard was written in Angular JS and allowed various teams to watch the progress of the patching services. They could tell which servers were actively being patched, which ones were completed (and if the patching was successful or not), and which ones were still waiting to be patched. Software Development Engineer Test Go Daddy Software January 2008 to October 2013 I was part of a team that designed and implemented automation tests for several different hosting products offered by Go Daddy. The tests were written in .NET with C#, WebAii framework and executed with Visual Studio Test runner.  • Unit tests were used for happy path and some error checking integration tests for regression testing.  • The tests were also used to verify that any new functionality did not break any existing functionality in a product.  • The tests would test for integration between Web pages, middle tier libraries, and API\ Web services. ASP.NET Software Developer Go Daddy Software May 2004 to January 2008 I worked on a team hat maintained and added new functionality to two ASP.NET applications. One application was for search engine optimization that used a multi-threaded spider/robot to visit each page of a customer's Web site and analyze them for search engine optimization. The results and suggestions for improvement were then automatically delivered to the customer. The other application was an email marketing application. Customers could maintain their contacts list and generate email campaigns to send to all their contacts or specific contacts based on user defined criteria.  • The applications were written using ASP.NET with C#, JavaScript, AJAX, and ADO.NET using MS SQL Server database.  • They were built using n-tier architecture  • I was responsible for changes to the Web UI, middle tier business and data layers, and database maintenance    Software QA (June 2003 - May 2004)  I performed manual software testing on Web based applications. I designed and executed test plans to test new features, changes, and regression tests for the Web based applications. The test plans were designed based on the application's requirements and specification documents. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science Arizona State University May 2002 Skills .net, Microsoft visual studio, Visual studio, C#, Git Additional Information Computer Skills:  * Programming Languages: C#, Python, HTML, JavaScript, jQuery, CSS, Linq, Powershell, SQL, Bash, AngularJS, Angular 4  * Technologies: Microsoft .NET 4.x/Core Framework, Windows Forms, ASP.NET, ASP.NET MVC, WebAPI, AJAX.NET, ADO.NET, Entity Framework, SOAP, XML, JSON, Microsoft IIS, Apache, Fabric, Flask, JSON, RESTful Web Services, Agile Methodologies, Git, Team Foundation Server  * Operating Systems: Windows, Windows Server, Linux  * Databases: Creating and editing databases, tables, stored procedures, and queries using SQL in Microsoft SQL Server and MySQL  * Developing Tools: Microsoft Visual Studio, PyCharm, MySQL Workbench, SQL Server Management Studio