Senior Software Engineer - Scrum Master Senior <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer - Scrum Master Senior Software Engineer - Scrum Master - Huntsville Huntsville, AL Highly driven software engineer with 7+ years experience working on an Agile development team utilizing  ever evolving frameworks and best practices. Passionate about continued education, learning new  technologies and mentoring newer team members. Enjoys designing, writing, and maintaining software in  a fast paced collaborative workplace. Active Secret clearance.  Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Software Engineer - Scrum Master SAIC - Huntsville, AL July 2018 to Present Supported the Medusa project on the BOSS program. The project provides a distributed service solution  for counter UAS; integrating countless hardware devices designed to detect and counter drones. The UI  portion is an Android map application with analyzing and countering threat capabilities.    Worked on a medium sized Agile team serving as the Scrum Master, keeping the team backlog prioritized  and up to date based on Product Owner direction. Moderated Scrum meetings, keeping the team on track, and stakeholders informed. Kept the Product Owner informed about risks, and deficiencies in the software  stack. Provided rough estimates on development times.    Maintained and developed software in Java for the multiple distributed services architecture, connecting to many hardware devices. Developed new features and maintained Simulation software to fully exercise the  product. Implemented new features for the UI portion of the software stack in Android. Designed a Configuration tool and implemented it with the team from the ground up, utilizing the previous  Configuration tool as a rapid prototype guideline.    Presented Lunch and Learn topics to the entire project (5 teams) in order to keep the product up to date  with best practices. Setup the project with Jenkins and Bitbucket integration for code reviewing and continuous integration capabilities.    Provided software integration support, traveling when necessary. Coordinated with the customer, testers and integration team members. Software Engineer PLUS/BlueCats - Huntsville, AL February 2016 to July 2018 Supported developing an RTLS solution that integrates UWB, BLE and RFID technologies to answer use  cases for asset tracking, management and reporting. Worked in and helped improve upon software  development processes within the Agile Scrum team. Used the Domain Driven Design approach to design  and implement new features within the software suite. Developed primarily in C#, utilizing SignalR to provide a public facing API that clients consume via websockets. Supported an Angular mobile-first  developed Dashboard and configuration system web solution from the ground up. Wrote vigorous unit  tests utilizing Moq as the mocking framework. Engaged in Pluralsight courses to support  education and to learn Angular. Software Engineer SAIC - Huntsville, AL July 2013 to February 2016 Supported the Aviation Mission Planning System (AMPS) program at SED. Worked on a small Agile team  developing software in C# for a back-end service utilizing the WCF framework. Created multiple web  service endpoints to provide CRUD functionality and queried results as XML, JSON, or KML. Added an additional java friendly endpoint and independently created a java test application in NetBeans as proof of  concept of interoperability. Designed and implemented ASP.Net web pages to provide an end to end  solution through a web browser that queried the web service. Wrote vigorous unit tests to exercise the methods within the project. Provided customer support by traveling to customer sites and aiding in  integration, testing events, and requirements gathering. Contributed in the development of design  documentation, testing procedure, peer reviews, dry runs, bug reports, bug fixes, and FQT. Analyst/ Software Developer Analytical Mechanics Associates, Inc - Huntsville, AL February 2012 to July 2013 SharePoint Server 2010/2013 farm and site collection administrator in support of a NASA contract.  Aided in content and widget creation, configuration, customization and deployment. Provided  customer training on how to utilize SharePoint to meet their use cases and workflows. Developed  customized web widgets and business solutions: dashboards, reporting, and custom workflows.  Maintained code base of .Net, HTML, jQuery and JavaScript. Helped customize a contract  management system to increase process transparency and provide a partially automated workflow. Technical Software Coop Mercury Computer Systems Inc - Huntsville, AL May 2009 to February 2012 Report/fix bugs in existing code. Utilize the acceptance test procedure to test products. Assemble data and work with engineers to test hardware dependability. Collected and analyzed data from evaluation  boards. Create software using open source libraries to showcase hardware for customers. Education Bachelor of Science in Engineering in Computer Engineering University of Alabama in Huntsville - Huntsville, AL 2008 to May 2012 Skills .net, Visual studio, Android studio, C#, Git, Agile Scrum, Jira, Scrum Master, Scrum, Java, Typescript, Angular