Sr. Sitecore Developer Sr. Sitecore <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Sitecore Developer - J.R. SIMPLOT Boise, ID ? Over 9+ years of IT experience having three years of experience in Sitecore CMS and four plus experience in .NET development.  ? At present, working on the latest version of Sitecore 8.2.  ? Hands-on experience with various versions of Sitecore CMS from 7.0 to 8.1.  ? Worked on various Sitecore features such as Workflow, Security, Multilingual, and Multisite.  ? Hands-on experience regarding Modules integration, System integration with Active Directory  ? Excellent Experience in writing Data Access Layers using ADO.NET Entity FrameWork.  ? Developed ASP.NET applications with jQuery, custom AJAX Controls, Integrated with MVC and LINQ to SQL.  ? Worked with.NET Server Controls, Web User Controls, Data Grid Web Controls, Form Validation Controls, Ajax Client-Side Controls, and Custom Controls.  ? Worked on.NET Security features such as Authentication & Authorization, Windows-based Authentication, Forms-based Authentication, Authorizing Users, and Roles.  ? Experience in creating and consuming XML Web Services.  ? Experience designing and developing Win Forms and Web Forms and used Delegates and Events to establish communication between the Win Forms. Proficiency in .NET languages C#, VB.NET, web technologies ASP.NET (Web Forms and MVC), and Win Forms, Windows mobile forms, WPF. Experience in developing web-centric applications using JavaScript framework Angular JS, HTML5, jQuery, AJAX, Bootstrap, and CSS. Experience hosting web applications in IIS, developing applications using the ASP.NET MVC.  ? Designed and developed the user interface, the cost benefit summaries module and the printing module of application using JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, AJAX, HTML/HTML5 and CSS/CSS3 that helped stored operators to execute sales orders more efficiently.  ? Experience in writing Complex stored Procedures, Prepared Statements, Triggers, Cursors, Functions, Views, Indexes, and Joins on SQL Server.  ? Strong experience in Object Oriented Programming Concepts (OOP) and Object-OrientedDesign (OOD).  ? Experience working with Database Programming, Documentation under UML and Package and Deployment using .NET Setup and Deployment.  ? Experience working on Waterfall, Test Driven Development (TDD), Agile Methodologies like Scrum.  ? Experience in generating Custom Reports and different types of Tabular, Matrix and distributed reports in multiple formats using Crystal Reports and SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS).  ? Knowledge of ADO.NET Entity Framework object layer and modeling layer.  ? Proficiency in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) AGILE methodologies of development process such as requirement analysis & definition, designing, coding, and implementation. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Sitecore Developer J.R. SIMPLOT - Boise, ID May 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Involved in understanding user requirements, designing and developing web application and backend applications.  ? Used Agile/Scrum methodology for development to ensure teamwork, collaboration and process adaptability throughout the life-cycle of the project.  ? Interacted with business analysts, end-users and worked on the application specifications to develop detailed functional, technical design, and test specifications that fully satisfies business requirements.  ? Involved in designing the Sitecore Information Architecture for the sprint requirements.  ? Upgrading Sitecore from 8.2 through 9.0.0  ? Created custom Sitecore workflow to authorize the content as per the business team.  ? Created Templates, Layouts, Rendering controller, Views in Sitecore.  ? Created new pipelines for implementing custom 404-page implementation.  ? Performed Functional Reviews for various Sitecore modules.  ? Worked on Lucene and SOLR search engine used in Sitecore CMS for indexing and searching the contents of a Web site.  ? Organized the placeholder for all the components to design and the move the components in the Experience editor.  ? Utilized Sitecore CMS solutions to design .Net application features.  ? Created Web application architecture using MVC and C#, AJAX, and LINQ.  ? Create complex foundation and featured solutions using Sitecore Helix    Environment: C#, .NET, ASP.NET, Visual Studio 2015, JavaScript, JQuery, JSON, MVC 5, XML, Windows Azure, SQL Server 2016, CSS, GitHub, Source Tree, Sitecore, AGILE, SCRUM, Sitecore 9.0.0, TDS, Entity Framework, Web API, Bootstrap. Sr. Sitecore Developer FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF CHICAGO January 2017 to May 2018 Responsibilities:  ? Designed and implemented web-based loan tracking and management application using C# and SQL Server Database as the backend.  ? Implemented & Analyzed for modifications and upgrades as per the client point of view.  ? Created Sitecore templates which are used to create candidate CV, legal documents and working conditions in either word or pdf.  ? Implementing a Sitecore solution to make it compatible with both web forms and MVC.  ? Created Sitecore templates, items, layouts, and sub layouts.  ? Developed application using ASP.Net MVC, C# and Sitecore 8.2.  ? Created and installed packages on Sitecore for deployment.  ? Upgrading Sitecore from 7.5 through 8.2.  ? Used Sitecore Admin pages to configure/maintain cache settings, Stats for fine tuning cache settings.  ? Implemented Sitecore caching methods - HTML Cache, Item Cache, Data Cache, and Prefetch Cache depending on the need for different pages.  ? Used Sitecore analytics to track user's activity and make suggestions.  ? Created and implemented custom workflows for Sitecore.  ? Used Angular JS, JavaScript, HTML, bootstrap, and CSS while rebranding moneygram.com.  ? Configured Item level cache and global level cache for rendering in Sitecore.  ? Working with TDS & glass mapper to access Sitecore items in the code.  ? Provided a full understanding of the design from the business perspective and provided .NET solutions integrated with Sitecore Content Management.  ? Provided on-demand Sitecore support including the creation of new components and revision of existing components.  ? Created a variety of components and offered on-demand revisions to existing infrastructure.  ? Implemented site internationalization. Performed Functional Reviewvarious Sitecore modules ensuring best practices have been used while implementing and leveraging .NET with Sitecore features to complete the requirements and development.    Environment: Sitecore 8.2, Glass Mapper, Source tree (GIT), TFS, TDS, VSTS, Visual Studio, C#, .NET framework, MVC, LINQ, ADO.NET, HTML, CSS3, ASP.NET, JavaScript, Microsoft SQL Server 2012. Sitecore Developer Nike - Seattle, WA June 2015 to December 2016 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in Re-Design and developed Data Access layer, Business layer and Application layer (user interface) for the Web application using C# and ASP. NET, Visual Studio 2012, MVC and Sitecore 7.5, 8 & 8.1  ? Involved Translated customer requirements into new features and services.  ? Writing/tuning Complex database objects like Stored Procedures, Functions, and Packages and Triggers using SQL.  ? Helix is a set of overall design principles and conventions for Sitecore development.  ? Hands-on Experience developing applications in 4.5 Framework using Visual Studio.  ? Created customized rule data rendering to change the components dynamically based on rules.  ? Integrated Coveo search API to develop search operations in Sitecore web applications.  ? Developing View, Control rendering components in MVC.  ? Created Templates, Layout, Rendering controller, Views in Sitecore.  ? Involved in architecting, designing, building, and deploying solutions.  ? Maintaining the Implementations to develop, extend, build the necessary Helix environment.  ? Implemented Helix to increase the productivity and make the whole solution more manageable.  ? Extensively worked on implementations in a future-proof way by architecting them as maintainable and extensible business-centric modules.  ? Helix benefits both customers and partners like better quality in Sitecore implementation, faster time, & long-term business value.  ? Development using standards- compliant, efficient, and optimized ASP, ASP.NET, CSS, VBScript, JavaScript, AJAX, HTML, XHTML, XML, XSLT and backend programming with MS SQL server, MS - Access.  ? Working with TDS (Hedgehog) & glass mapper to access Sitecore items in the code.  ? Used Sitecore publish/sync mechanism to publish to production.  ? Extensive use of Sitecore image library to store all Sharp product images, Assets, and corporate website documents.    Environment: Sitecore 8.1, Glass Mapper, Solr 5.5, Source tree (GIT), TFS, TDS, Visual Studio 2013, Razor View Engine, C#, MVC, Sitecore, Windows Azure, Mongo DB Sitecore Developer Cable Vision - Bethpage, NY September 2013 to May 2015 Responsibilities:  ? Implement web site functionality using ASP.NET, MVC frame work, and Angular JS.  ? Developed application using ASP.NET MVC 4.0 to enable the full control over the rendered HTML and jQuery for client-side scripting.  ? Created different Angular directives which are used across the different templates in the Single Page application.  ? Developed the data layer module using C# which is reusable for data transactions oftheentire project. In this module extensively used ADO.NET objects like Dataset, Data Adapter, Data Reader, Command, Data Table, and Data Relation objects.  ? Utilization of content management systems (Sitecore Version 7.1 and Sitecore7.5) APIs and controls for different parts of the web site.  ? Worked extensively with Sitecore Insite connector to connect the APIs of Sitecore withinsight commerce CMS.  ? Responsible for upgrade process of the web site to the latest version of Angular JS framework.  ? Implement Sitecore Ecommerce web site solution for aclient using Insite commerce functionality.  ? Heavily relied on Glass mapper to populate Sitecore data to Backend.  ? Responsible for creating the product refresh jobs in Insite commerce module to update the pricing and inventory from ERP solutions to show on thefront end of web site.  ? Worked on GIT continuous integration system and deploying code using GIT build.  ? Responsible for creating and implementing code generation modules (Synthesis Model) in Sitecore.  ? Used the Sitecore-supported methodologies for better ROI and security on investment in tools, training.  ? Creating custom commands and custom pipelines in Sitecore version 7.5.  ? Working on creating the html 5, CSS 3, Bootstrap components, and pages for the new screens.  ? Worked on third party bootstrap components like Found Icon, Font Awesome and google Roboto fonts.  ? Worked on MVC services which supports retrieving the data from various systems  ? Working on Entity framework to correlate the object-oriented programming from the SQL database and converting the database tables into System object-oriented programming objects.  ? Used HTML and CSS to design various screens for the Site core content management systems.    Environment: Sitecore 7.5, MVC 5.1, Glass Mapper, ASP.Net, C#.Net, Visual Studio 2013, IIS 7.0, SQL Server 2014, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, J Query, XML, XSLT, Coveo API, TDS, TFS 2015, Windows Server 2012 R2, ASP.NET, JavaScript, ADO.NET, T-SQL, CMS.NET, CMS, EKTRON CMS, AJAX, LINQ. Sr. .NET Developer Valtech India Systems June 2010 to September 2013 Responsibilities:  ? Worked in Agile mode, plan and deliver for two-week sprint and participate in all scrum ceremonies.  ? Worked on C# (4.0), .NET, MVC (4.0), AngularJS, and HTML5 for developing various tabs.  ? Used Entity framework CODE FIRST to improve the overall performance of the application.  ? Created WCF SOAP, WCF REST Services and used different bindings to make it available to different types of clients.  ? Developed Web Forms for the modules using ASP.NET server controls, Validation Controls, and HTML, CSS.  ? Excellent experience in Microsoft Messaging Patterns and Practices.  ? Designed and implemented Data access layers (model) using LINQ for XML Data and multi-user interface.  ? Involved in creating applications using VB.NET and enhancing projects for .NET applications.  ? Take complete ownership and lead the team in effectively implementing the design and overall development of the product. Developed the common components based on the business requirements for the re-usability purpose.  ? Worked on a 3-tier architecture which received the risk analysis data from centralized database using WCF services and stores them in their internal database as static data.  ? Created Ajax calls through JavaScript.  ? Implemented WPF to create, attractive and effective user interface using XAML document. Software Developer May 2009 to June 2010 Environment: Visual Studio 2010, .NET Framework 4.0, MVC4, C#, ADO.NET, CSS3, ASP.NET, C#, AngularJS, jQuery, DHTML, XSLT, Razor, Ajax, LINQ, SQL Server 2008, SSIS, HTML.    Zensar May 2009- Jun 2010  Software Developer    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in design, coding and Documentation.  ? Designed and developed excellent, user friendly Win Forms using C# for Investor data collection.  ? Used ASP.NET, JavaScript, IIS, HTML, and CSS for developing Web pages.  ? Design and development of credit card transactions and statements module.  ? Backend database interaction with Oracle 8i.  ? Good knowledge on working with Microsoft Messaging Queue (MSMQ) for pushing out the emails.  ? Personal Credit/Bank account monthly statement generation and distribution.  ? Administration section for customer support personnel.  ? Developed the data layer class using C# which is reusable for data transactions of entire project. In this class extensively used ADO.NET objects like Dataset, Data Adapter, Data Reader, Command, Data Table and Data Relation objects.  ? Used XSLT files to transform XML documents into HTML.  ? Used the Data Access Object (DAO) pattern throughout the application.  ? Used ADO.NET technology to connect to database.  ? Developed code behind classes and reusable components in Visual Basic.  ? Used ASP.NET Web Server controls like Data Grid, Repeater, List Box to display the records.  ? Created Windows rotator control to be used for displaying data from an RSS feed in the Win forms.  ? Worked with Datasets, Data Readers and Data Adapters.  ? Used Web controls, Rich controls, List controls, Validation controls, and Custom controls.  ? Developed COM components for business Logic.  ? Implemented Secure Communications with SSL.  ? Implemented ASP Securities like Enabling Using Password Authentication, Implemented Secure Socket Layers (SSL) and restricting anonymous network access.    Environment: VB, XML, XSL, XSLT, DAO, ASP.NET, COM, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, DHTML, ASP.NET,JavaScript,VBScript, VB.NET, HTML, CSS, Oracle 8i. Education Bachelor's Skills .Net (9 years), Angular JS (4 years), ASP. (9 years), ASP.NET (9 years), C# (9 years), CSS (9 years), GIT (4 years), HTML (9 years), JavaScript (9 years), MODEL VIEW CONTROLLER (8 years), MODEL-VIEW-CONTROLLER (8 years), MS ASP (9 years), MS SQL server (5 years), MVC (8 years), SQL (6 years), SQL Server (5 years), TDS (5 years), user interface (4 years), Visual Studio (6 years), XML (8 years) Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information Operating Systems: Windows server 2008/12/14  CMS: WordPress, Sitecore 6.5/8.0/8.1/8.2  Languages: C#, VB.NET, ASP.NET MVC, Razor, and T-SQL  Internet Languages: HTML, CSS, XML, JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS.  Web Development tools: Visual Studio.NET 2008/10/13/15.  Databases: SQL Server 2000/05/08/12, Oracle 9i/10g and MS-Access  Framework: Microsoft .NET Framework 1.1, 2.0, 3.0, 3.5, 4.0, 4.5  Reporting tools: SSRS and Crystal Reports  Application Servers: IIS 6.0/7.5, Solr, Lucene  Version Control: Tortoise SVN, Visual Source Safe, TFS, TDS, VSTS, GIT, and StarTeam  Other tools: Postman, Developer Tools, Fiddler, and Soap UI