Sr Software Developer Sr <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr Software Developer - Public Service Enterprise Group, NJ-USA Baltimore, MD • Over 12.0 Years of experience with IT industry in Utility (Nuclear), financial, insurance and retail companies.  • 12 years of experience in .NET programming experience.  • 7 Years of experience in SSIS in the Design, Modeling, Development, Implementation and Support of SQL Server 2000/2005/2008/2014.  • Extensive knowledge of Object - oriented programming (OOP) concepts and design patterns  • Experience in web application development using ASP.NET web Form (Master page, user controls, validation controls) and ASP.NET MVC (Razor view engine, View, partial view, models and layout view), Web services, Windows communication foundation (WCF) and ASP.NET Web API  • 12 years of solid database experience on MS SQL 2000/2005/2008 and 2014, Oracle 11g/9i, PL/SQL, PostgreSQL, Physical database design, Logical database design, Data Modeling, Data Mapping, Cleansing, Data Exports & Imports, Inbound/Outbound Interfaces,  • Specialized in Application Support, Performance Tuning & Optimization, Security Administration, Resource Management, Software Maintenance, User & Security Management, Query Tuning.  • 8 years of T-SQL experience with emphasis on back-end programming experience using T-SQL, SQL, Stored Procedures, Functions, Ref Cursors, Constraints, Triggers, Indexes-B-tree Index, Bitmap Index, Views, Inline Views, Materialized Views, Database Links, Export/Import Utilities, Ad-hoc queries using SQL.  • 4 years of experience in leading the team to investigate, analyze, and resolve complex technical problems. Identifies and manages interfaces, service levels, standards, and configurations.  • 8+ years of expertise in advanced PL/SQL concepts like Bulk collect, Multi Table insert, PL/SQL table, Cursors, Nested tables, V arrays, Records, Types.  • 6 years of expertise in developing applications based on iterative design approaches, specifically Agile Software Development.  • Having intensive experience in translating business requirements to Database Objects.  • Proactively identifies opportunities for improvement and recommends technical solutions. Work Experience Sr Software Developer Public Service Enterprise Group, NJ-USA January 2014 to Present PSEG - EERC is the support to nuclear plant internal applications. We are supporting the nuclear internal applications to avail the services of PSEG IT division to help them proceed with the application support services. The services offered are FILENET, Fusion, Vision and Decision Support System. As a part of the project, ERP Integration with PSEG Core, TCS is providing consultancy and solution to PSEG to achieve their goal to integrate various systems in one common platform. We will help client for implementation and integration of other application tools. Role of my part is to understand business process at the client site, understanding as is solution and design to be solution, and then implement the Database design.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in interacting with business analysts, other developers and management to develop the application.  • Ivolved in full lifecycle of the project from design, development & Testing.  • Followed and developed the N-Tier architecture for the business, presentation and data access layers.  • Developed web-based applications using ASP.NET MVC 5.0  • Extensively worked on ADO.NET Entity Framework for developing core data layers for the distributed applications.  • Involved in transferring data from one server to another using SSIS Package.  • Created REST handshake service in Portal side for Micro site (another web sites) to get the complementary device information and redirect the user after the authentication, finished by ASP.Net Web API.  • Developed and consumed WCF Service to access data layer components.  • Developed the application using various patterns including MVC 4.0, Singleton.  • Used WCF for designing and deploying distributed applications under (SOA) implementation.  • Implemented Data Binding using Data Context, Object Providers and Implemented Business Logic using WPF Class Library with C# Custom Business Entities.  • Developed WCF services for both Desktop and mobile applications.  • Used and took the advantage of Razor Engine, NuGet Packages, advanced .Net features.  • Design and development of user interface using ASP.NET, VB.Net, HTML, and JavaScript.  • Business Logic has been implemented using the concepts of secure coding features and Object-Oriented programming (OOP) with Code behind language C#.NET.  • Utilized Agile Methodology, Continuous Integration, MVC 5.0, Entity Framework 6.0, Telerik Framework, C#, .NET 4.0, SQL Server 2014, Javascript and Visual Studio 2013 Pro.  • Involved in maintaining Classic ASP applications.  • Administering and supporting IBM FILENET, Fusion, Vision and Decision Support System, Security Screening information system to day-to-day monitoring, problem resolution and root cause analysis.  • Objectstore design, Document Class, Property templates, work queues, Roster, Event logs  • FEM administration, Content Engine Administration for using NSeries storage, Daily Health Check. FileNet system recycling, FileNet API development, Trouble Shooting production problems, maintaining Production system, Creating PMR and working on PMR with IBM for resolution, Space monitoring  • FileNet and CENTERA configuration  • Developed and deployed content migration solutions for about 35 million old documents from old system  • Verity Content search solution configuration and deployment, Space monitoring  • IBM Content Collector experience in configuration and deployment for batch ingestion of documents from File Folders  • Search Templates development and workplace configuration for access roles  • Developed Stored Procedures, Functions, Ref Cursors, Constraints, Triggers, Indexes and designed to ensure the integrity of the application environment  • Defined strategies and solutions to improve the performance and access of imaging/workflow applications.  • Monitor Remedy and Service now Tickets, analyze tickets and provide resolution as per the service level agreements SLA. Tracks status of client inquiries coordinates appropriate response and follows up to ensure client satisfaction  • Worked closely with SAP Interface and PADS team to Extract, Transformed and Load data from multiple data sources using SQL SERVER R12 (SSIS ETL Tool).  • Releasing the work items which are stuck in error queues following the stack information.  • Application Engine Administration using Workplace  • Defining search templates for business units using the Workplace Search Designer.  • Responsible for maintaining and resolving ongoing FileNet and Kofax related issues  • Content Engine Administration using Enterprise Manager, Define Object Stores, Document Classes, Choice Lists Property Templates.  • Developed new procedures for requirements gathering, needs analysis, testing, scripting and documentation to strengthen quality and functionality of business-critical applications.  • Setting up TFS environments and manage the source Control.    Environment: ASP.Net, MVC 5.0, .Net Framework 4.5, TFS, SQL Server 2014, ASP, IBM FILENET 5.2, SSIS, KOFAX, EMC Centera, Java Script, Web API, Crystal Report 12. Sr. Software Application Support / Developer WoltersKluwer - WI April 2013 to January 2014 BizNet is the internal application for the Bizfilings.com site. Customers who wish to start a new company can go to www.bizfilings.com to avail the services of WK CLS division to help them proceed with the company formation and other related services. The services offered are including but not limited to company incorporation, registration, naming services, registered agent services, filing and compliance services. Biznet manages customer order fulfillment, partner channel tracking and promotion configuration, cash application, general and financial reporting, and internal task ticketing. It also provides functionality for order entry, registered agent billing and service fulfillment, annual report electronic filing, order shipping, and varying levels of process automation for all functions listed above. Other applications under BFI are BOS, MOS, TDC, TNC, CTProComply and few batches    Responsibilities:  • Worked on new enhancements in Bizfiling application, Fixing the production defects like Customer reporting issue and application performance tuning.  • Creating and maintaining the DB views, queries, procedures and optimizing the existing queries.  • Production support for many other applications (BOS, MOS, TDC, TNC, CTProComply)  • Gathered the user's application (Bizfiling, BOS, MOS, TDC, TNC, CTProComply) requirement and created the document for it.  • Modified the applications which are coming in partially converted and not converted categories.  • Mainly participated with the users in the UAT phase and solved many of the user's issues.  • Developed Standards Documents, Creation and Maintenance of Change Control Documents and User Guides.  • Analyzed the requirement for customer business reports and performing enhancement.    Environment: ASP.Net, .Net Framework 2.0, SQL Server 2008, Crystal Report 11, .NET Data reports. Sr. Software Application Support / Developer AIG October 2010 to April 2013 PPS is one of the underwriting systems in AIG Insurance Group, we developed the new enhancements for PPS Stat Plan-37. Premium Processing System (PPS) is one of the major booking systems for the Domestic Brokerage Group (DBG) and helps in the creation of Quote and Binder letters, Statistical and Reinsurance Booking and Policy Issuance. The system can be used in its entirety by PPS users or entered strictly as a booking system by any other DBG user.    Responsibilities:  • Requirement Analysis from Business Client and Analysis feasibilities and Impacts for PPS application.  • PPS application Page Designing, Coding and QA testing.  • Writing complex SQL Scripts and providing the optimized solutions using the pl/sql queries.  • AIG - Premium Processing System Application Enhancement  • Troubleshooting complex DB scripts and VB queries in the AIG - Premium Processing System.  • Tuning of complex DB scripts using the parameters, indexes, MA Views, Stored procs, functions.    Environment: VB 6.0, SQL Server 2005, Crystal Report Sr. Tech Associate Fusion Resort.NET - MV June 2008 to September 2010 Fusion Resort is a comprehensive ERP based solution for the hospitality industry. It facilitates the client by providing the Windows Application. Each and every day-to-day transaction will be handled by the windows application, modules presents Front Office/Desk (Reservation, Registration, Room Change, etc), Back Office, Inventory, Human Resource, Fixed Assets, Maintenance, Telephone Interface, Kitchen, House Keeping, and Accounts. These are all modules are available in the windows application and are integrated and the data flow across various modules is totally automated. All the MIS Reports will be presented.    Responsibilities:  • Built application logic using Infragistics tools and various proprietary systems and tools  • Ability to plan logical solutions for programming challenges  • Provided expertise during client project planning meetings  • Created Electronic Commerce Deals to assure proper product fulfillment  • Supported and managed all recording requests between internal departments and external clients  • Requirement gathering from Business Client and Built the HR modules, Maintenance, Back office module are Integrated  • Develop the Front desk module and integrated with other modules screens.  • Introduced metrics classes into booking API calls using generics.  • Created different reports for management, marketing and development department needs.    Environment: VB.NET 2008, Infragistics tools and MSSQL 2005, Crystal Reports 11, .NET Data Report Software Engineer Fusion HR ERP - MV June 2006 to May 2008 Fusion HR software handles the operations of HR related activities for the any organization. It covers the area from recruitment to payroll. Recruitment were made by call for interview based on the marks scored employee will be appointed and he/she will be given training according to his job and department. His/her leave and Overtime will be calculated based on the attendance which is interfaced with the swiping card/Thumb impression machine. Based on the working days and the benefits/increment and decrement, payroll will be calculated. With the employee details every year bonus will be calculated. The special feature in our software is integration with SAP, production and efficiency of each employee is extracted from SAP and imported to our software for Production incentive calculation. Reports related to management and government-oriented reports were generated and taken from the software.    Responsibilities:  • Developed the application security management and end user screen design.  • Developed customized HR departmental report development for each customer perspective.  • Created Electronic Commerce Deals to assure proper product fulfillment.  • Worked with high-level requirements and leverage relationships and domain knowledge to translate into concrete requirements.  • Translated those requirements into technical designs.  • Implemented procedures for detailed analysis, designing and development of content management services.  • Requirement gathering from Business Client and Built the HR modules, Maintenance, Back office module are Integrated  • Created different reports for management, marketing and development department needs using Crystal report tool.    Environment: VB.NET 2008, Infragistics tools and MSSQL 2005, Crystal Reports 11, .NET Data Report Skills .NET, VISUAL STUDIO, API, C#, HTML Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/pravin-babu-natarajan-293942159 Additional Information Technical Skills    Methodologies: Agile, Scrum, Waterfall  .NET Technologies:. NET 4.5/4.0/3.5/3.0, MVC 4.0/3.0, C#, ASP.NET, VB.NET 2005  Development Tools: Visual Studio 2012/2010/2008, ADO.NET, SQL Server Management Studio, SSIS, SSRS, Crystal Reports, Fiddler 4.4.9, Bootstrap  Languages: C#, VB.NET, WCF, WPF, Bootstrap, JavaScript, JQuery, HTML, XML, JSON, Web API, REST API, Bootstrap, MicroServices.  Databases: SQL Server 2008/2005/2014 T-SQL, Oracle 9i/10g, MS ACCESS 2005  ETL Tools: Data Transformation Services (DTS), MS SQL Server Integration  Services (SSIS)  Reporting Tools: Crystal Reports XI/X, MS SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS).  Additional Skills: FileNet P8 5.2, Application Engine, Process Engine, Content Engine, FEM, IBM Websphere 7.1, FileNet API, VB Script, XML, CSS, IBM Content Navigator, EMC Centera, KOFAX, TFS, TDD