Senior Software Developer Senior <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Software Developer - Western Dental Rancho Santa Margarita, CA Work Experience Senior Software Developer Western Dental - Orange, CA January 2017 to Present Joined a diverse team of developers to introduce some of the newest technology to an otherwise outdated using antiquated technology. As a senior developer and mentor in the .Net group I was responsible for all internal applications as well as the development of the intranet. This is a very fast paced organization with a solid Agile methodology.    ? Applications development using ASP.Net, C#, MVC5, Angular 2+, Javascript  ? Used the Kendo UI  ? Developed a number of Web Services using web api for data repository  ? Used both MSQL Server Management Studio and Advanced Query Tool (AQT) and IBM for the DB2 Senior Software Developer / IT Director CTrends - Foothill Ranch, CA 2004 to 2016 CTrends is a hybrid electronic components distributor which provides life cycle analysis from product introduction to excess inventory management and specializing in counterfeit avoidance and risk mitigation. The ability of manage accounts and process sales CTrends uses a custom CRM tool (SalesTrack) which was designed and developed in-house by the CTrends development team. As the primary developer of the SalesTrack software it is my role to lead the continued support and maintenance of the software as well as act as the main architect of other ancillary industry specific tools.    ? Designed, Developed and Supported the company CRM tool (SalesTrack). SalesTrack is used both domestically and overseas by all employees in the sales pipeline and is the backbone of the company. SalesTrack.  ? Project manager and developer of the company website using ASP.Net MVC and C#. SiteFinity was used for content management.  ? Designed and maintain the company MSSQL database.  ? Maintain the MySQL ShoreTel database for call center reporting.  ? Build reporting software that interfaced with our old Norstar phone system using an SMDR6.  ? Designed and developed numerous web spiders to collect industry specific information for both the sales and purchasing teams using C++.  ? Guided the growth of a small IT department to that of a mid-level worldwide company. In charge of all IT personnel and resources.  ? Planned and implemented operational strategies to improve business efficiency and mitigate cost.  ? Managed all IT and Operational projects.  ? Internal auditor for ISO/AS9120 C and ANSI ESD S20.20 standards as well as author of all system procedures, maintenance procedures and work instructions in accordance with current ISO standards.  ? Managed the implementation of an SEO campaign to improve company visibility and increase sales. Software Development Manager/Project Manager Provantage - Lake Forest, CA 2003 to 2004 Hired to lead the development team in their efforts to develop a mortgage and home lending software suite. Responsible for evaluating the existing developers and support staff and making the necessary personnel changes. Improved efficiency over the entire department and lead the effort to release the software on-time to the customer base. Provided direction and mentoring to all technology team members. Reported directly to the CTO.    ? Built a more efficient software, database and quality assurance team. Increasing productivity and team relations.  ? Oversaw the design and development of new software and the support and testing of existing software.  ? Work with clients on requirements gathering, assessing project scope and building functional specifications. Senior Software Developer IC Solutions - Aliso Viejo, CA 2000 to 2003 Senior software developer for a global electronic component distributor responsible for the design and development of a custom CRM tool used worldwide by all Sales and Purchasing staff. Acted as the Software Development Manager for all software and quality assurance personnel. Helped grow the company to a $60 million multi-national corporation.    ? Designed the company CRM tool using Visual Basic, Classic ASP, C# and MSSQL  ? Managed a team of software developers, database administrators and quality assurance professionals.  ? Supported the sales and purchasing team with custom tools that separated us from the competition and elevated the company to a $60 million multi-national corporation.  ? Created an SQL database replicated over 4 countries  ? Designed and developed data mining agents that spiders the Internet and pulls electronic part information pertinent to our business  ? Managed the QA department on all software quality initiatives including ISO certification protocols. Sr. Software Developer Fulcrum Point Technologies - Capistrano Beach, CA 1997 to 2000 Worked on custom projects for clients across a variety of industries and technologies. Interfaced with clients to establish project scope and specifications as well as act as the primary software developer. Also worked with FEA Modeling software (Patran), ClearCase version control system and Rational Rose.    ? Contractor for a variety of companies over a broad range of industries.  ? Worked with MSC Software and their FEA Modeling software (Patran). The technology used ranged from Pascal, FORTRAN and C++ as well as various UNIX platforms on DEC Alpha, and IBM machines. Used the ClearCase version control system as well as a little Rational Rose.  ? Responsible for interacting with customers and developing a project specification.  ? Lead programmer using (Windows, UNIX, DEC Alpha, C/C++, ASP.Net, Visual Basic, ISAPI, MSMQ, HTML, COBOL II, Python, Pascal, Fortran)  ? ClearCase version control system and Rational Rose. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science California State University Fullerton Minor Degree in Mathematics California State University Fullerton Skills ASP (10+ years), ASP.NET (10+ years), C#.Net (10+ years), C++ (10+ years), DATABASE (10+ years), Angular 8 (2 years), Javascript (4 years), MVC5 (5 years), VB.Net (8 years), VB6 (10+ years), Typescript (3 years) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/robert-sheppard-21120310 Additional Information Skills Summary    ? Application development experience using the latest technologies  ? ASP.Net MVC5 ? Web Services, WebAPI  ? C#.Net ? MSSQL  ? Angular 2+  ? VB.Net ? HTML5  ? C/C++ ? CSS  ? JavaScript ? Team Foundation Server  ? JQuery ? Visual Studio  ? JSON, XML ? VB6  ? Kendo UI ? AngularJS/Angular 5    ? Software Development, Testing and Support  ? Project & Resource Management  ? Strategic Planning and Team Building  ? IT Infrastructure Design & Planning  ? Budget & Cost Cutting Strategies  ? Internal auditor for ISO and ESD Quality Systems