software Developer <span class="hl">software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> software Developer - Computer Sciences Corporation • Having 4.5 Years of experience as a Software Professional in Dot Net & SQL Server.  • Good Knowledge in design and development of Web Based & Windows Based applications of medium sized projects in diverse areas.  • Technologies extensively worked: ASP.Net, VB.Net, C#.Net, ADO.Net, Ajax, LINQ, SQL Server 2005/2008, Telerik Controls, Agile, IIS, XML and WCF.  • Self-motivated and can independently learn and adapt to new technologies and ability to effectively communicate with all levels of management and staff.  • Experience in writing simple/complex queries using SQL Server 2008.  • Working experience on CSS and HTML.  • Knowledge in MVC and AngularJs  • Experience in writing Unit test cases.  • Team player with excellent communication and problem solving skills.  • Good knowledge on issue Tracking tool(JIRA) Work Experience software Developer Computer Sciences Corporation October 2014 to Present • Worked as a Software Developer in KALS INFO SYSTEMS from April 2013 to Jun 2014  • Worked as a Dot Net Developer in PEAK TECHNO LINKS PVT.LTD from July 2012 to Jan 2013 Product Developer Computer Sciences Corporation October 2014 to Present Computer Sciences Corporation October 2014 to Present Client:  Technology: Visual Studio 2012, C#, SQL Server, WCF, MVC, Angular JS, AJAX, XML and JQUERY.  Third Party Controls: Telerik, Infragistics  Duration: Oct 2014 to present.    Synopsis: Risk Master Accelerator is a risk and claim management software provides RMIS analysis and reporting capabilities available independently or as a part of integrated claims and risk management solution. The software supports high-volume data entry and processing in multi-user environments and provides a dynamic information interchange in network systems    Responsibilities: Developing, Bug fixing, Database Query Designing and client interaction.    Contribution:  • Worked on critical issues fix  • Modifications & Enhancements based on End-Users' Custom Request  • Coordinating with the testing team for fixing bugs  • Implementation and Training to End users  • involved in end to end delivery of the application Software Engineer KALS Information Systems Ltd April 2013 to June 2014 Multimedia Development Corporation SDN BHD April 2003 to April 2013 Project #1: MDEC WIZARD  Client: Multimedia Development Corporation SDN BHD, Malaysia  Technology: Visual Studio 2010, C#, SQL Server, Crystal Reports.  Third Party Controls: Telerik  Duration: 0.10 Year    Synopsis: MDec has been using a Customer Relationship management system (CRM) developed in a client-server architecture, to address some of the MSC-Status processes.  The proposed software application called IPDKMS is a web-based internet application, which will be exposed to the internal staff of MDeC, the existing MSC-Status Companies and the prospective companies who intend to get an MSC status. The following processes are considered in this software application:  a. Pre-Application processes  b. MSC-Status application processes  c. Post-MSC processes  In Summary, any ICT Company that intends to get an MSC status certificate should go through a Lead registration process, wherein the lead is registered and accepted/rejected. Once accepted, an Account manager is assigned to keep track of the lead and ensure the processes are followed in sequence. The client is expected to submit the plans based on the MSC proposed activities that they intend to take up. These plans go through a rigorous review process by MDC entities involving all the Units of Client Services Department.  Upon acceptance by these entities, these cases goes through an Approval Committee, which reviews the summary of the business and financial plans submitted and its sanctity, relevance operations, compliance to MSC requirements and so on. Once the Committee approves, necessary letters are generated to the Ministries and final approval is sent to the Client with the MSC status certificate.  Upon issuance, post-MSC certification services such as Relocation to one of the Cyber cities, Yearly impact survey, 5 year pioneer status renewals, visit management will be done.    Responsibilities: UI Design, Coding, Database and Query Designing.    Contribution:  • Analysed the business requirements, designed and developed the Web Site.  • Designed and developed extensive dynamic web pages using ASP.NET 4.0, JavaScript, HTML and CSS.  • Implemented user automatic input validation using ASP.NET 4.0  • Used ADO.NET objects Dataset and Data Adapter to store and make consistent access to SQL Server 2008.  • Worked with MS SQL Server 2008 to Manage and manipulate the data.  • Bug fixing and maintenance of the product.  • Coordinating and helping other team members working on the same project.  • Coordinating with the testing team for fixing bugs.  • Ensuring smooth delivery of the project. Online school management Peak Techno Links July 2012 to January 2013 Client: Brilliance School  Technology: Visual Studio 2010, C#.NET, SQL Server, Crystal reports  Duration: 0.6 Years  Synopsis: School Management System is a comprehensive solution designed to automate the activities of the School. It is designed with an easy-to-use user interface. The project consists of 6 Modules to manage Total School including Scheduling, Examination, Students details, fees, admissions, staff details, online TC generate, Different login role. By using the system we can maintain the Information of the Student right from the Registration to the Relieving.    School Management System provides the benefits of streamlined operations, enhanced administration and control, improved response to maintain the Student and Staff related Information at each and Every Phase efficiently    Responsibilities: Involved in Designing, Coding & Testing.  Contribution:  • Development of various modules of the project.  • Bug fixing and maintenance of the product.  • Coordinating with other team members working on the same project.  • Worked with MS SQL Server 2008 as back-end data source for storing the data.  • Coordinating with the testing team for fixing bugs.  • Ensuring smooth delivery of the project. Sales MetTube SDN BHD April 2002 to April 2003 Malaysia  Technology: Visual Studio 2008, VB.NET, SQL Server, Crystal reports.  Duration: 0.5 Years    Synopsis: MetTube ERP System is developed for a copper tube and busbar Manufacturing Company running an ERP legacy system. It has various modules, which cater to the process flow within different departments such as Inventory System, Cpps, Sales, Warehouse, Information System, Debtor, DLM Report modules.  Inventory System handles all the inventory stock available in the stores. All the items available are classified into Consumable items and Spare part items and later assigned a part number  CPPS (Customer's Product Process Specifications) module consists of all the technical specifications of a product, like groove details, coil weight, coil height, pass schedule details and the instruction sheets. Each product code is unique and it will have all the main aspects of the particular product. So by using this module users manage the activities like creation of product codes and defining the process specifications.  Sales module consists of order creation, sales contract formation and invoice process. This module deals some of the main reports namely mill order card report, copper premium reports, sales commission reports and all shipping maintenance reports.  Warehouse module is handling the weighing, packing, material allotment, quality acceptance, ready list preparation and final packing list creation. The major reports are weigh-in status report, dispatch report, daily performance report and floor inventory report  Information System module handles the job number allotment for each product.  Debtor module manages the activities, which are related to the financial matters and required when a customer issues a cheque or cash against the Invoice.  DLM (Data Logistics Management) manages the US stock, business plan, forecast and inventory spread sheet.  DAM (Dispatch Automation Module) manages vessel booking, container planning and finished goods reports.    Responsibilities: Involved in Requirement gathering, Designing, Coding & Testing.    Contribution:  • Development of various modules of the project.  • Bug fixing and maintenance of the product.  • Coordinating with other team members working on the same project.  • Worked with MS SQL Server 2008 to Manage and manipulate the data.  • Coordinating with the testing team for fixing bugs.  • Ensuring smooth delivery of the project. Education Sai Gowthami Jr College 2007 SSC Sahithi Public School 2005 Bachelor of Technology in Electronics and Communication Engineering JNTU Links http://www.csc.com Additional Information Personal Skills  • Ability to think independently and learn rapidly  • Excellent analytical, logical and programming skills.  • Excellent Commitment, dedication and planning towards goal oriented tasks.  • Good work ethics with Good communication skills & Programming Skills  • Enthusiastic to learn new concepts and technologies    Technical Skills  Web Technologies: ASP.NET, HTML, XML, JavaScript, jQuery, CSS  Programming Languages: VB.NET, C#.NET  Framework: .NET 2.0/3.5/4.0, Entity Framework  RDBMS: MS-SQL Server 2008/2005, Oracle  Platforms: Windows 98/2000/XP/Win7/Win12  IDE: Visual Studio 2008/2010/2012.  Web & App Server: IIS 7.0, Web services, WCF  Data Access Technology: ADO.NET, LINQ  Reporting Tools: Crystal Report Engine 11.0  Third Party Controls: Ajax, Telerik, Infragistics  Other: TFS, Bitbucket, GitHub