Sr. DotNet Full Stack Developer Sr. DotNet Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. DotNet Full Stack Developer - Think Finance Addison, TX • 8 years of experience in the software development field specialized in Financial Industry  • Skilled in developing requirements specifications, design documents, user documentation and system research.  • Strong in Microsoft technologies like .NET progressing from problem statement to well-documented designs.  • Strong knowledge of .NET technologies with experience ranging from version 2.0 to .NET version 4.5  • Expertise in web development using ASP .NET web forms and ASP.NET MVC using C#  • Expertise working with HTML5 and CSS3  • Hands on experience working with ORM tools like Entity Framework.  • Experience in creating, hosting and consuming Web Services using WCF.  • Good working knowledge of database design and development, which includes: creating tables, writing stored procedures, views, performance tuning using SQL and Oracle.  • Experience in working with IBM WMQ and MSMQ.  • Developed a proof of concept in windows azure for single sign on using Azure ACS.  • Good at automating the testing process to make the reduce the regression testing time  • Hands on Experience with Automation tools like Selenium Web Driver, Ranorex and Fitnesse.  • Good Working knowledge on various business flow layers starting from Front End, business layer(Platform), Nortridge Loan Processing System and Proviner (Decision Engine involving Underwriting and Fraud Flows)  • Experience working with Agile Methodology adapted projects and Dev Ops Operating model.  • Experience in testing the Credit Risk Systems (Underwriting and Fraud Rules)  • Experience in onsite/ offshore co-ordination, requirements gathering and analysis. Good experience on concepts like Release co-ordination for Stage and Prod environment maintenance, deployment and support.  • Proficient in software documentation. Good experience working with office applications.  • Versatile team player with excellent communication, analytical, presentation and inter-personal skills. Mentored team members in understanding technical concepts. Managed web meetings, discussions, conducted technical sessions.  • Worked in Energy (oil & gas), life sciences, retail, manufacturing, healthcare and insurance domains. Work Experience Sr. DotNet Full Stack Developer Think Finance - Addison, TX January 2017 to Present Description: Application built on ASP, NET MVC and SQL server for automating the testing process for the Proviner systems of the company which reduced the regression time line from weeks to hours    Responsibilities:  • Core team member in the development of Think Loan Management Platform(TLMP) that used innovative technologies and design to cater lending as a service  • Actively participated in architecture discussions and often provided design recommendations  • Played vital role in migrating an existing lending application in to the TLMP platform  • Participated in the research and development of queue based processing system.  • Enforced test driven development for 100% code coverage.  • Developed a proof of concept in windows azure for single sign on using Azure ACS  • Designed and implemented the database schema, stored procedures, functions using SQL Server for the Proviner Automation for Underwriting and Fraud Process.  • Worked on design and development of SQL Server stored procedures, functions, SQL joins, CTEs, temp tables.  • Creation of excel files in runtime using Open XML. Reading and updating data from excel using Open XML and LINQ and storing excel files in libraries using code.  • Used IBM WMQ methods for writing to the message Queues and retrieving from the Queue.  • Created, Consumed and Published WCF Web Services  • Thorough knowledge on the business process flow involving multiple complex systems like Front End, In-house developed platform or business layer, Nortridge Loan Serving Layer and Proviner which is the decision Engine Layer.  • Provide support and maintenance for existing systems during business hours, and after hours, on a rotating basis.  • Requirement gathering, analysis and documentation. Meetings with business users and analysts.    Environment: C#, ASP.NET MVC, WCF, Visual Studio 2015, TFS, IIS, OpenXML, Selenium Web Driver, Microsoft Azure. Sr. DotNet Developer General Motors Financial Company, Inc - Arlington, TX November 2014 to December 2016 Description: The application was built on ASP.NET MVC with SQL Server as backend and Entity Framework to connect between the Business Layer and the Database    Responsibilities:  • Created application high level design and detailed level design.  • Performed object oriented analysis and created UML diagrams including Class diagram and Sequence diagrams.  • Designed and created web pages using ASP.NET MVC which involved extensive usage of JavaScript and JQuery.  • Designed and implemented the database schema, stored procedures, functions, and triggers in SQL Server 2008 for the backend.  • Used ADO.NET for communicating between business layer and database.  • Used IBM WMQ methods for writing to the message Queues and retrieving from the Queue.  • Created, Consumed, and Published WCF Web Services  • Provide support and maintenance for existing systems during business hours, and after hours, on a rotating basis.    Environment: C#, AngularJS/jQuery, HTML, LINQ, CSS, Visual Studio 2013, TFS, IE debugger tools, ADO.NET, SQL Server  WCF, IBM WMQ Sr. DotNet Developer Compass Professional Health Services - Dallas, TX April 2014 to November 2014 Description: Worked with a team which was developing an external facing web application using ASP..NET MVC 4, Angular js and Web APIs  Responsibilities:  • Designed and created web pages using HTML5 and AngularJS  • Used HTML5 for implementing certain flashy web pages in the project.  • Designed and implemented the database schema, stored procedures, functions and triggers in SQL Server 2010 for the backend.  • Used LINQ to Entity Framework using lambda expressions for communicating between business layer and database.  • Designed and developed screens using ASP.NET MVC 4 Bootstrap layouts, Angular, grunt frameworks.  • Used ASP.NET Web APIs for exposing the services.    Environment: C#, JavaScript/jQuery, Angular js, XSLT, HTML, LINQ, Visual Studio 2012, TFS, SQL Sr. DotNet Developer Conoco Phillips - Houston, TX January 2014 to April 2014 Description: Developed an internal web based application in using ASP.NET MVC by consuming the data from the pre-existing SharePoint APIs and then display them in HTML format on the web page  Responsibilities:  • Designed and created web pages using ASP.NET MVC4 using the razor engine and AJAX for the rich interactive application. This involved extensive usage of JavaScript and jQuery.  • Boot strap layouts are being used to render the site on the mobile phones.  • Responsible for consuming the data from the pre-existing SharePoint APIs and then display them in HTML format on the web page.  • Used HTML5 for implementing certain flashy web pages in the project.  • Designed and implemented the database schema, stored procedures, functions, and triggers in Oracle 11g for the backend.  • Performed the unit testing using NUnit.  • Used LINQ to Entity Framework using lambda expressions for communicating between business layer and database.  • Created, Consumed, and Published WCF services.  • Communication with business users for new enhancements and issues weekly.  • Responsible for detailed design & documentation of developed components.    Environment: C#, JavaScript/jQuery, HTML, XSLT, Visual Studio 2010, SharePoint designer, Angular js, Bootstrap Layouts. DotNet Developer CVS Caremark - Richardson, TX January 2012 to January 2014 Description: Involved in the project which was migrating already existing windowsapplication to ASP.NET Web application.  Responsibilities:  • Designed application architecture for a high-availability Web application with 50+ concurrent users which should interface with other Corporate-level applications.  • Created application high level design and detailed level design.  • Designed and created web pages using ASP.NET and AJAX for the rich interactive application. This involved extensive usage of JavaScript and JQuery.  • Used Microsoft Silverlight for implementing certain flashy web pages in the project.  • Designed and implemented the database schema, stored procedures, functions and triggers in SQL Server 2008 for the backend.  • Performed SQL tuning for some of the existing stored procedures using Query Optimizer.  • Created SOAP based web services(WCF) for some standard functions which were utilized by some corporate applications in different platforms.  • Performed the unit testing for first phase using Nunit.  • Used ADO.NET for communicating between business layer and database.    Environment: C#, JavaScript/jQuery, HTML, XSLT, Visual Studio 2010, SharePoint designer, Angular js, Bootstrap Layouts. Software Developer Hitachi High Technologies - Thiruvananthapuram, Kerala March 2010 to December 2011 Description: Responsible for the offshore support of HHT in developing and maintaining the interfaces for the various Chromatographic Systems like Chromelon chromatography data software and Waters Empower[R] 2 chromatography systems.    Responsibilities:  • Responsible for preparing the requirements specifications and high level and detailed level design documents for the project.  • Involved in the development of GUI/Server interfaces for the Lachrome Elite as well as Lachrome Ultra series for Chromoeon as well as Waters Empower[R}2  • Worked on fixing the UI issues in the application.  • Involved in preparing the test plans and performing the system and integration testing.  • Met all deadlines and incorporated requirement changes without affecting the final release.    Environment: C#, JavaScript/jQuery, HTML, CSS, XSLT, Visual Studio, TFS, Software Developer Hitachi Medical Corporation - Thiruvananthapuram, Kerala January 2009 to March 2010 Description: Responsible for design, development, and maintenance of a new C#.net. application with more efficiency to catch maximum issues in the offshore testing process and to reduce the number of bugs from actual application.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in developing the high level and detailed level design documentations.  • Worked on designing and coding the business logic for the entire tracking application modules using C#.NET and WinForms.  • Implemented the test application using C# .NET in excel parsing.  • Developed the serial communication modules for the scanner to communicate with other hard wares.  • Provided offshore support during the deployment phase.  • Involved in preparing user manuals for the application.  • Co-ordinate with the testing team to prepare test plans and perform testing.  • Unit testing, integration testing and recording test results.  • Responsible for detailed design & documentation.    Environment: C#, JavaScript/jQuery, HTML, XSLT, Visual Studio, SQL, Oracle Education Bachelor's Skills .NET (9 years), C# (9 years), VISUAL STUDIO (9 years), HTML (8 years), JAVASCRIPT (8 years) Additional Information Skills  Web Technologies/.Net  ASP.NET, C#.Net, ASP.NET MVC, Web API, HTML, CSS, AngularJS, JavaScript, JQuery, BootStrap, AJAX, SOAP, WCF, Web Services, XML, XSLT, SOAP, ADO.NET, LINQ, OpenXML    Framework .Net Framework 4.5-3.5,  Development Tools Visual Studio .NET 2013/2010/2008  Databases SQL Server 2012/2008/2005  Tools  Microsoft-Office, MS Excel, MS Project, Microsoft Visual SourceSafe(VSS), Team Foundation Server(TFS), Selenium Driver,Ranorex, Fitnesse.    Platform Windows Server 2012/2008/2003