Sr.Net Full Stack Developer Sr.Net Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr.Net Full Stack Developer - American Express New York, NY • Around 9+years of experience, in Designing Developing Enterprise wide applications and product development life cycle project using cutting edge technologies in N-Tier and Service Oriented architectures.  • as FULL STACK/UI Developer.  • Proficient in front end UI development using HTML, AJAX, CSS (Cascading Style Sheets), Java Script, jQuery and AngularJS.  • Experience in developing Web-Centric applications using AngularJS, JavaScript, JQuery, CSS.  • Experience in building Single Page Application (SPA) using Angular JS framework.  • Highly experienced with modern JavaScript frameworks and libraries like AngularJS, Bootstrap and JQuery.  • Enhanced user experience by designing new web features using MVC Framework like Angular 2 and Node.js.  • Developing Prototype for the project using AJAX, Hardcoded JSON, JQuery, AngularJS, JavaScript, HTML, and CSS.  • Designed the framework in C# based on repository pattern to access the MongoDB.  • Expertise in creating web based application using technologies like Classic ASP, AJAX Toolkit, JAVA Script, XML, HTML and DHTML.  • Hands-on experience with Microsoft Azure in developing, deploying and managing applications.  • Experience on working with Windows Communication Foundation (WCF), Windows Work Flow Foundation (WWF) and Windows Presentation Foundation (WPF) in .NET Framework.  • Experience in XML related technologies including XAML and XSD.  • Worked knowledge in creating consuming Web services SOAP, WSDL, .NET Remote Server Components using .NET Framework, to develop Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) based application.  • Strong database design and experience in query programming. Strong skills in Writing Stored Procedures, Triggers, User Defined Functions using SQL PL/SQL, T-SQL in SQL Server 2014/2012/2008/2005.  • Worked extensively in ORM (Object Relational Mapper) with using ADO.NET, Entity Framework, LINQ and Lambda Expressions by retrieving data from various data sources.  • Developing Reports using SQL Server Reporting Services SSRS, SQL Server Integration Services SSIS. Developing SSIS packages and designing ETL processes.  • Knowledge on developing Reports using crystal reports and RDLC reports.  • Proven ability in generating Drill down and Drill through reports with Drop down menu option, sorting the data, defining subtotals in SSRS.  • Experience in developing and consuming ASP.Net Web Services, ASP.Net Web API (RESTful) and Windows Communication Foundation (WCF). Experience in using WPF to build rich Windows smart client user experiences.  • Strong knowledge in writing unit tests with MS Unit and NUnit.  • Strong experience in using ASP.NET Web applications involving User controls, Server controls, ASP.NET State Management.  • Worked with the Version Control Systems like Team Foundation Server (TFS), Visual Source Safe (VSS).  • Passionate about listening to executive-level business issues and then architecting and implementing solutions including business process change.  • Good Verbal communication, customer service skills, and excellent written.  • Experience in deploying, configuring and maintaining the web sites and services on IIS 7.0 with and without secured socket layer. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr.Net Full Stack Developer American Express - New York, NY March 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Working on Agile Methodology for implementing scratch Project.  • Designed and Developed tasks to support full life cycle management (i.e.: analysis, technical requirement design, and coding, testing, implementation of system and application software.)  • Developed Bootstrap responsive web application pages using Angular 2.0 services, components and directives for front end UI and consuming the Restful web services API and made use of CRUD Services for effective use of Web services.  • Created custom directives in Angular 2 for reusable components (directive for browser controls like: disable right click, browse close, and lock screen while transition, multifield form elements, back ground file uploads etc.)  • Working on design and developing for Portal Development by using HTML, CSS and Angular 2+.  • Designed and developed Entity Framework 2.0 Code -First approach with Repository-pattern based backend and used RESTfull and Web API as transaction and communication technology to the client- side.  • Finding information about latest technologies that aid in the development of core web applications using .NET Core API'S and enhance their features in the long run.  • Maintain continuous and up-to -date knowledge on rapidly changing Technology trends (like Angular JS to Angular 2) and new releases to make suggestions for product efficiency.  • Expertise in Angular 2.0 framework and its ability to create simple and scalable code for SPA.  • Created a RESTful Web API service using ASP.NET Web API to generate data for the EMS which was then consumed in the front end by Angular 2.0.  • Creating for developing user interfaces and client-side environment to communicate with SQL server, Oracle and Advantage(ups own) Database to update the flight load (ULD's) info.  • Maintained state of the Webpages by using View State and Session Memory objects .Net Core. Developed REST/WCF Web services, ASP.NET WEB APIs and involved in pre-testing using POSTMAN.  • On the other hand, also achieved building of .net application by integrating Visual Studio with Jenkins.  • Used LINQ to Entities, LINQ to SQL, LINQ to XML and LINQ to Objects for retrieving the data proficiently.  • Involved in Testing, Debugging, tracing the application for error, Documentation, and Maintenance of the application.  • Troubleshooting for current application and integration issues, Participate in frequent releases and deployments.  • Crew System Application is migrated from VB.Net to Web Forms.    Environments: Visual studio 2019/2017/2015/2012(C#, VB.NET), SQL Server 2016/2012, Oracle, HTML5, CSS, SOAP, Java Script, JQuery, Angular 2, Angular JS, JSON, Git, TFS, N-Unit, MVC, Restful API, WCF, karma. Application Developer Avanade - Seattle, WA August 2016 to February 2018 Responsibilities:  • Worked in Agile Methodology for implementing Pipeline Project.  • Design, Architect BizTalk EDI Interfaces and HIPAA EDI Framework components.  • Working on enhancements to add additional portal design change features to APHP Product.  • Working on defect fixes for Accenture Public Health Platform(APHP) Base project to deliver end product.  • Implemented Encryption and Secure Transfer of 834 EDI Enrollment Transaction using BIZTalk Adapter.  • Responsible for developing user interface environment to communicate with Accenture Foundation Solution(AFS).  • Designed and developed Pipeline Management application using ASP.NET 4.0, MVC 5, Kendo UI, Razor, Bootstrap, Entity Framework, C# and ascx.  • Worked with Business users to gather requirements and was responsible for deliverables on time.  • Worked extensively with editable Grids. Also involved writing different event handler like data  • bound, change, edit, save for Grid.  • Implemented Client-Side Validations using Data Annotation Attributes. Developed presentation layer using Server-controls, HTML Controls, User Controls, and Custom Controls developed with separate AFS database configuration.  • Developed web pages and implemented AJAX using Telerik controls Telerik Tree, Telerik Grid and AJAX toolkit.  • Created Web Forms using ASP.NET and implemented form validation using Validation control using both Custom validation and JavaScript was written for client-side validations.  • Developed Bootstrap responsive web application pages using Angular 2.0 services, components and directives for front end UI and consuming the Restful web services API and made use of CRUD Services for effective use of Web services.  • Created custom directives in Angular 2 for reusable components (directive for browser controls like: disable right click, browse close, and lock screen while transition, multifield form elements, back ground file uploads etc.)  • Created libraries to implement Business layer that is consumed by using VB.NET.  • Used C# to write business layer. Client-side development using Javascript, JQuery, AJAX Telerik, CSS, AFS and HTML.  • Used LINQ, SQL Server 2012 R2/ 2016 for data retrieving, querying, storage and manipulation interface screens developed using ASP.Net.  • Published Web services using C#.NET to interact with the other applications and exposed them using SOAP and HTTP.  • Involved in designing and development of SOA services using WCF.  • Resolving portal environmental issues to APHP Products.Created reusable and optimized Web Services, K2 tool.  • Responsible for developing WCF to communicate with Accenture Claim Engine (ACE).  • Responsible for the design functional, technical documentations implementation of assigned enhancements.    Environments: Visual studio 2017/2015/2013/2008(C#, VB.NET), SQL Server 2012 R2/2016, HTML, CSS, Java Script, JQuery, Ajax Telerix, Angular 2, WCF, SOA, K2, SSRS, SSIS, GIT, BIZTalk Server, HIPAA Validator,TFS, NUnit. .NET Developer Capital one - Dallas, TX March 2015 to July 2016 Responsibilities:  • Involved in the complete Software Development Life Cycle including Analysis, Design, Implementation, Testing and Maintenance. Working with Iterative Agile Methodologies with Scrum and Test -Driven Development(TDD).  • Designed and developed Management application using ASP.NET 4.0, MVC 5, Razor, Bootstrap, Entity Framework 6.0, C#.  • Widely used AngularJS UI-bootstrap components like calendar picker, time picker, directives, select2, model pop-ups, ng-grid, router Provider's, progress bar, ng-Idle, ng-Upload.  • Created Single Page Application with loading multiple views using route services and adding more user experience to make it more dynamic by using AngularJS framework.  • Built Web pages that are more user-interactive using JQuery plugins for Drag and Drop, Auto Complete, JSON, AngularJS, JavaScript and Bootstrap.  • Created web Application using Asp.Net, Ajax, Web API. Created RESTful web service that manages user authentication, information and product purchases.  • Designed the web UI using Silverlight, ASP.NET web forms, HTML, XSL/XSLT, JavaScript, CSS and AJAX controls.  • Coded in AngularJS MVC framework to build Web application for the internal use of the organization.  • Adapted web application to run in windows Azure against SQL Azure using Azure Queues for background processing.  • Used Expression Blend for getting WPF control templates.  • Extensively used WPF spy tool for fixing for fixing UI data related, styling and event triggering issues.  • Created Restful Web API's to expose the analytics data to the clients. Created message handlers in Web API to implement global level authentication.  • Developed Visual components through WPF using XAML and Expression Blend.  • Extensive usage of Delegates and events to establish communication between the WinForms.  • Published Web services using C#.NET to interact with the other applications and exposed them using SOAP and HTTP.  • XML for data transmission via WCF services and data manipulation using LINQ.  • These services included self-defined structures for data input and were exposed using WSDL with XML/SOAP format as well as consumption interfaces for them.  • Hands on experience in SQL Server database design and development, writing Constraints, Indexes, views, stored procedures, Cursors, Triggers and User Defined Functions.  • Used NUnit Framework for writing test cases. Used Unity for dependency Injection.  • Performed Unit Testing of the developed component and web forms and worked closely with manual testers and automation testers, User Acceptance testers for ensuring the desired functionality is achieved.  • Experience in software configuration management using Git and Team Foundation Server TFS.    Environment: .NET Framework, ASP.NET web forms, MVC, AngularJS 1.5/2.0, XML, Web Services, IIS 6.0, Azure, Oracle, SQL Server 2014/2016, WPF, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, SVN, Web API, Win Forms, N-Unit. .Net Developer NVG - Corona, CA August 2013 to February 2015 Responsibilities:  • Extensive involvement in all stages of System Development Life Cycles(SDLC) including Requirements, Logical and Physical Architectural Modeling, Design, Development, Implementation and Support.  • Implemented AngularJS Factories and Controllers to manipulate and view employee task data and used Custom AngularJS Filters to provide better search experience.  • Utilized AngularJS framework to bind HTML template (views) to JavaScript object (models) and created custom Angular directives using. module and. directive.  • Worked on AngularJS MVC framework for developing the Single Page Application and created some custom directives like ng-date picker, ng-cart box, ng-pagination.  • Developed classes and interfaces for the Data Access layer using VB.NET, ASP.NET and SQL Server data access library.  • Used $http and $resource service for retrieving data from the server via XML Http request object in Angular.js framework.  • Designed a rich user interface application by creating 2D and 3D graphics using Windows Presentation Foundation. (WPF).  • Windows applications created using WinForms and Windows Presentation Foundation (WPF). Windows application developed to support business, development and testing operations.  • Developed RESTful Web API web services for using .Net/C# for the web applications to be consumed by AngularJS application.  • Performed Input validation using ASP .NET Input Validation Controls like Required Field Validator, Range Validator, Regular expression Validator, Compare Validator, Custom Validator and Validation Summary.  • Expert in implementing latest technologies like Entity Framework Repository Unit of Work Dependency Injection IOC patterns and used framework like Unity Auto Fac.  • Worked on the Security Module to provide the security to the users and employees based on the Company Polices and User Credentials. Maintained and developed few complicated reports like parameter based reports, sub reports, well formatted reports, matrix reports, chart and tabular using SSRS 2012.  • Configure Azure Cloud Service for end point deployment.  • Created Database Objects like tables, stored procedures optimization and Triggers in SQL and PL/SQL to communicate with oracle database.    Environment: C#. Net, ASP.NET MVC, VB.NET Entity Framework, XML, IIS 7.5, Azure, REST, TFS, WCF, JavaScript, Bootstrap, Angular Js, WPF, CSS, HTML, SSRS, SSIS, PL/SQL, MQQT, SQL Server 2012, N-tier. .Net Developer United HealthCare - Chicago, IL November 2011 to July 2013 Responsibilities:  • This product is basically developed in ASP.NET, ADO.NET, WEB SERVICES and C# supported by SQL server as a backend.  • Selected and implemented agile development practices according to the application requirements.  • All the user interface layers, web pages are created and integrated to maintain the data flow and data integrity using ASP.NET User controls and Web Controls.  • Attended meetings of the design logic and required components for the project.  • Maintained/Developed Business Logic in C# using Database Authentication.  • Used validation Controls for both Custom Validation and JavaScript for Client-Side Validation; Also, used the new validation controls in Visual Studio. . JavaScript, jQuery, Node.Js, and AngularJS creating web page controls.  • Nmarket design and standard APIs use to integrate with internal or third-party systems. Used XML to transfer data between the client and Server.  • Developed web pages with data bound controls like Data Grid, Data List and Data Repeater using the methods Data Binding and Data Templating.  • Developed Reports using SSRS on daily basis. Develop T-SQL queries, stored procedures and Triggers for Accessing data from the SQL Server 2008.  • Involved in creating the database schema and table structures in various cycles, and developed relational database table, stored procedures, functions and triggers using SQL Server 2012 and  • Developed a powerful search functionality, which retrieves results based on search criteria across several datasets.  • Upgraded technology stack to use type script Angular and web pack build engine for the application.  • Configure Azure cloud service for end Point deployment.  • Worked on Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) for developing application. GitHub for distributed version control of all software development.  • Created WCF services for integration with the databases.    Environment: ASP.NET, C# .NET, ADO.NET, Oracle, SQL Server 2008/2012, R2, IIS, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, AngularJS, SOA, SOAP, XML web Services, T-SQL, Azure. .Net Developer CGI Veterans Jobs, Church, VA August 2010 to October 2011 Responsibilities:  • Application was developed using ASP.NET web application & VB.NET.  • Created libraries to implement Business layer that is consumed by using VB.NET.  • Implemented and extensively used the Object-Oriented programming concepts in C# and ASP. Net.  • Designed a working prototype model of the application using HTML, ASP.NET and CSS.  • Developed the independent WCF (Windows Communication Foundation) services and defined Service Contracts for specific functionality in search module.  • Also leveraged WCF security mechanism at transport level with windows authentication type for our intranet application.  • Established communication between different applications running on same/different platforms using WCF.  • Used Grid View, Data List and Repeater controls with Paging and Sorting for displaying various data on to the page  • Programmed ADO.NET for communication between application and database, used extensively Data Grid, Data Set, Data Table, Data Views, Data Adapter and Data Readers to render reports.  • Developed Stored Procedures, Triggers, and Views in SQL Server for accessing the database.  • Developed T-SQL queries to fetch data as per the business requirements with proper tuning techniques.  • Used XML intensively to bind the data to the web controls, data manipulation and to store data and sent as parameter to the stored procedures.  • Implemented Serialization and Deserialization of objects.  • Developed Custom Controls which provides flexibility, reusability better design time experience.  • Developed partial post back validations to manipulate data on web pages using AJAX.  • Developed various stored procedures for the data retrieval from the database and generating different types of reports using SQL reporting services (SSRS).  • Used Visual Source Safe for version control of the source code along with the maintenance of the builds and the relevant documents of the same.  • Involved in unit testing, integration testing and deployment of the application.  • Responsible for Requirement analysis, timely delivery, Client interactions, Resolutions of issues.    Environment: .NET Framework, VB.NET, C#, ASP.NET Entity Framework, ADO.Net, T-SQL, Xml, SSRS, VSS Windows XP, SQL Server, HTML, CSS, Java Script. Software Developer Quest Diagnostics - Secaucus, NJ January 2009 to July 2010 Responsibilities:  • Gathered Client requirements and converting them into Technical Specifications and developed Web forms using C# .NET.  • Applications logic was developed using C# and used Html helper in a view to render the HTML content.  • Used Razor Views to enable fast Coding workflow and quickly integrate server code into HTML markup with minimum of keystrokes.  • Implemented MVC framework to reduce the complexity and to get full control over the behavior of the application.  • Used Microsoft Entity Framework Code First approach for the Data Access Layer for the ASP.NET MVC application. Designed GUI using the HTML, Java Script, CSS and Custom Controls.  • Implemented of WCF services and better logging exception management support to help in the premature detection of new problems. JQuery was used to validate user controls and web forms.  • Worked on .NET security features such as Form-Based Authentication and Role-Based Authorization.  • Worked on Microsoft Team Foundation Server for version control, Database server project and individual task status.  • Developed stored procedures, views and triggers for data manipulation, ensuring set up relations includes indexing, constraints and foreign keys. Performed unit testing using N-Unit.    Environment: C#, ASP.NET Framework 4.0/3.5, Razor, Visual Studio 2010, Ajax, T-SQL, XML, XSL, HTML, CSS, JQuery, Java Script, VB Script, Nunit, MS-Excel, SQL Server 2008R2. Education Bachelor's Skills .net, Visual studio, Visual studio .net, Api, Applications development, Biztalk, Git, Javascript, Angular.js, Bootstrap, .net framework 4.6, Asp.net web api, Microsoft .net, Wcf, Perl, Svn, Xml, Ajax, Asp, Asp.net Links http://Sr.Net Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Microsoft Technologies Microsoft .NET Framework 4.6/4.5/4.0/3.0, ASP.NET MVC,  Tools & Technologies: ADO.NET, LINQ, MVC, Entity framework, Web Services, Web API, Bootstrap, WCF, WPF, MQQT. K2 perl, angular js, angular 2.  Web applications Development Tools. ASP.NET MVC, ASP.NET WEB API, ASP.NET Webforms, HTML5, CSS3, XML. WCF, BIZTalk.  Development IDE Visual Studio .Net 2017/2015/2013/2012/2010/2008/2005.UML  Client-Side Technologies JavaScript, JQuery, Angular.Js 1.4/1.5/2.0. Ajax Telerik  Databases SQL Server 2016/2014/2012/2010, T-SQL, PL/SQL, Oracle 10g/11g.  BI Tools SSRS, SSIS, SSAS.  Version Controller TFS, Git, GitHub, SVN.  Operating Systems Windows 10/8.1/8/7/XP/NT, Mac OS X, LINUX.