Sr. Java Developer Sr. Java <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Developer - Citi Bank New York, NY ? Over 9+ years of experience in analysis, design, implementation and testing of Object Oriented Applications in Client/Server environments using Java/J2EE.  ? Strong knowledge in Object Oriented Concepts, Object Oriented Design (OOD), Object Oriented Analysis (OOA), Programming and its implementation.  ? Worked on Java Dependency Analysis Tool (jdeps) on Java 8.  Worked on JAR file attribute on Java 8.  ? Responsible for building a framework to support the easy creation of, and the consumption of REST Microservices using Java 8, JAX -RS, AngularJS (SPA), Spring.  ? Expertise in design and development of various web- and enterprise-level applications using J2EE technologies like JSP, Servlets, JDBC, Oracle.  ? Experience in working with frameworks like Struts, Spring and Hibernate  ? Implemented RESTful Web Services for the data transportation between multiple systems.  Used RAML to define the API design.  ? Designing and developing the UI with Thymeleaf, JSP, HTML5, CSS3, AngularJs, and JavaScript.  ? JNDI /JDBC / Data source configurations in Wildfly  ? Used JBoss Server to deploy the application.  ? Design and develop web services using RAML and REST  ? Experience in using Java IDE tools like Net beans and familiarity with other IDEs such as Eclipse.  ? Designed base project structure and different modules using Microservices architecture.  ? Development of RESTful web services based on Spring Boot.  ? Experience in using MySQL databases to write complex SQL queries, and familiarity with databases like SQL  ? Experience in using frameworks and tools like J Unit.  ? Extensive experience in using SQL to write Stored Procedures and Triggers.  ? Well versed with complete systems life cycle development processes of design, development, testing and implementation.  ? Developed web applications by implementing Model View Control (MVC) architecture using JSP pages that interact with Servlets.  ? Excellent communication, interpersonal and analytical skills along with can-do attitude. Work Experience Sr. Java Developer Citi Bank - New York, NY April 2015 to Present Worked for Citi Bank Home Loans Mortgage Banking. Here we maintain Mortgage Data Mart (MDM) as one central, complete and consistent database that hosts the data for all mortgages for downstream systems, reports and user queries. As a loan passes through multiple stages during its life cycle, MDM provides a centralized source for all business units to work with the same information.    Responsibilities:  • Developed the Web Based Rich Internet Application (RIA) using J2EE (Spring framework) and Macromedia/Adobe Flex.  • Developing Applications using latest Java/J2EE technologies such as Cassandra, Java 8, Junit.  • Extensively worked in designing and implementation of multi-tier applications using Java 8, J2EE, JDBC, JSP, HTML5, Spring Boot, AngularJS, Servlets, JavaBeans with Eclipse.  • Used new Java 8 features, such as Lambda expressions, Streams and Functional Interfaces.  • Designed and developed using the Java collection API with Java 8 features and other java processes to fulfill business case requirement, such clients account statements and clients running balance based on each transaction.  • Worked on Modularization of the JDK under Project Jigsaw on Java 8.  RAML specifications/build experience with Mulesfoft.  • Extensively worked on both Enterprise and Community edition of MULE ESB and also configured MULE API manager and RAML.  • Worked on RAML and REST based Web services for Mule ESB flows, also on Mule Soft MMC and Enterprise release capabilities.  • Develop and maintain Ruby clients and swagger docs for the OpenAPI Initiative.  • Developed and maintained RESTful API interfaces with CRUD operations, providing clear documentation in JavaDoc or OpenAPI format  • Used SWAGGER a set of open source tools built around the OpenAPI specification that can help build design, document and consume REST APIs.  • Familiar with dependency injections, Reflection, Generics, Cross Origin, Thymeleaf, Eureka and Zuul server and Actuator concepts.  • Strong hands-on experience and built with Spring Boot with Thymeleaf and Deployed the application with Spring technologies such as ( Spring Boot, Spring Batch, Spring MVC, JDBC Template).  • Uses Java, Spring MVC and Webflow framework, Hibernate, MySQL, jQuery, Bootstrap, Thymeleaf,  Gradle, Jenkins, Git  • Worked on setting up the life cycle policies to back the data from AWS S3 to AWS Glacier, Worked with various AWS, EC2 and S3CLI tools.  • Good experience in using Amazon Web Services (AWS) and AWS SNS/SQS for delivering messages.  • Experience with Spring boot and Spring MVC.  • Analysis, design, development and testing of web application in Spring Boot.  • Worked on Spring boot and hibernate to process the ticket data  • Experience using Dropwizard and Spring Boot framework for developing RESTful web services.  • Developed application service components and configured beans using Spring IoC, creation of Hibernate mapping files and generation of database schema.  • Experience with various MVC Java frameworks like Angular.JS, Node.JS, bootstrap.JS, etc.  • Developed existing network mapping microservices using python nmap and deployed it on kubernetes  • Apache Mesos and Kubernetes were used as the best ecosystem to deploy and manage Microservices.  • Worked with POSTMAN for API testing. Developed REST APIs and created User Model for application.  • Expertise in Linux backup/restore with tar including disk partitioning and formatting.  • Implemented AWS IAM for managing the credentials of applications that runs on EC2 instances.  • Developed all the UI pages using React JS, Node JS, HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript  • Implemented AWS solutions using E2C, S3, RDS, EBS, Elastic Load Balancer, Auto-scaling groups.  • Worked on deployment of project on to Amazon S3.  • Developed Cloud Formation templates, also launched AWS Elastic Beanstalk for deploying, monitoring and scaling web applications using different platforms like Docker, Python etc.  • Experience in using Tomcat apache servers and Docker containers for deployment.  • Responsible for developing the UI side with ReactJS, SASS, HTML5  • Implemented the caching mechanism in Hibernate to load data from Oracle database.  • Worked on implementing microservices on Kubernetes Cluster.  • Designed and implementing a Node.js based mobile text and voice messaging app and its cloud backend.  • Developed web pages using HTML/CSS and JavaScript.  • Designed and modified User Interfaces using JSP, JavaScript, CSS and jQuery.  • Design, Implement and Test Oracle ADF applications using JDeveloper  • Worked on web services SOAP and REST technologies  • Implemented Selenium IDE with java script for Web apps.  • Design & Development of the User Interfaces using HTML, CSS andJSP.    TECHNOLOGIES:  Java, Java 8, J2EE, Javascript, Oracle, Pl/Sql, Cassandra, Hadoop, Bootstrap, Backbone, Rest, Soap, Web Services, Eclipse, Weblogic, Spring, Hibernate, Ibatis, Angular, React, Node, Springboot, Microservices, Rest, Thymeleaf, Jboss Wildfly, Git, Github, Junit Selenium, Agile, Uml, Jsp, Xml, Soa Sr. Java Developer Merck & Co - Kenilworth, NJ August 2013 to March 2015 Merck & Co., Inc. is one of the largest pharmaceutical companies in the world. Merck discovers, develops, manufactures and markets a broad range of innovative products to improve human and animal health directly and through its joint ventures.    Responsibilities:  • Developed user specific Highlights(dashboard menu) section, Home page, Admin home page, user module (Modify/search users, create users screens with assigning various roles) using Spring MVC framework, Hibernate ORM Module, Spring Core Module, XML, JSP and XSLT.  • Expertise in Advanced JavaScript libraries and frameworks such as Prototype, Ext JS, Angular JS, Node JS and Object oriented programing in JS.  • Having experience of deploying and configuring applications for cloud services like AWS and Azure.  • Implemented Spring boot framework, learned and used new technologies such as Docker, Kafka,  • Introduce Docker to facilitate developer and production streamlining of deployments.  • Experience in installing and configuring of OpenShift platform in managing Docker containers and Kubernetes Clusters.  DevOps Practice for Micro Services using Kubernetes as Orchestrator.  • Working experience with cloud infrastructure of AWS (Amazon Web Services) and computing AMI virtual machines on Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2).  • Good knowledge of RESTful web services.  Development of Java based RESTful web services.  • Experience using Dropwizard and Spring Boot framework for developing RESTful web services.  • Implemented business logic using Struts action components in the Struts and Hibernate framework.  • Expertise in developing enterprise applications using Struts Frameworks  • Expertise in MVC Architecture using JSF and Struts framework and implementing custom tag libraries.  • Involved in adding AJAX, JavaScript components to some of the jsp pages wherever needed.  • Designed and modified User Interfaces using JSP, JavaScript, CSS and jQuery.  • Delivered mobile app for book reading capability with HTML5 Sencha and online services with Flash/Flex.  • Developed PL/SQL procedure for login module and registration module.  • Wrote Java programs, performed builds, monitored DB2 data and ran SQLs  • Built a RESTful API to save and retrieve geolocations using a remote server in Java using Spring, MongoDB, Apache CXF, and JAX-RS.  • JUnit testing of Java classes to populate JSP screens of online tax exemption forms which updated Oracle database under Tomcat/WebLogic web services.  • Involved in the deployment of Web-Service End-Points using Apache CXF  • Used Eclipse IDE for designing, coding and developing applications  • Used WSAD for writing code for JSP, Servlets, and Struts.  • Conducted software builds using Subversion in a windows environment via Cruise Control.  • Developed test cases and performed unit testing usingJUnit.  • Developed Use Cases, Sequence and Class Diagrams using Rational Rose.  • Developed user interface using JSP, AJAX, JSP Tag libraries to simplify the complexities of the application.  • Created Maven build file to build the application and deployed on WebSphere Application Server.  • Design, develop and test of SOA services using SOA / Web Service / Oracle Fusion Middleware.    Environments:  Java, Javascript, Microservices, Rest, Css , Html5 , Node, Bootstrap, Spring, Hibernate, Struts, Jsf, Ejb, Angular, Db2, Pl/ Sql, Jdbc, Mongodb, Apache Cxf, Soap, Web Services, Eclipse, Websphere Portal, Wsad, Subversion (Svn), Junit, Scrum, Uml, Jsp, Maven, Xml, Soa, Jms, Apache Tomcat, Linux, Php Sr. Java Developer Market Watch - Market, NY August 2012 to July 2013 Market Watch operates a financial information website that provides business news, analysis, and stock market data. It is a subsidiary of Dow Jones & Company, a property of News Corp. Market Watch is part of Dow Jones' Consumer Media Group, along with The Wall Street Journal, Barron's, and affiliated internet properties.    Responsibilities:  • Developed and Implemented WebServices and used Spring Framework.  • Extensive experience using framework APIs like Struts, Spring, iBatis and Hibernate.  • Developed complex Web based UI using Struts, Ajax and Java Script.  • Developed web-based customer management software using Facelets, Icefaces and JSF  • Maintained the business standards and the requirements inEJB and deployed them on to WebLogic Application Server.  • Enhanced the functionality of screens using JSP, HTML, JavaScript, CSS and JQuery.  • Implemented CSS3, DOM Api, DOJO and Ajax to create a dynamic and interactive experience.  • Developed additional UI Components using JSF and implemented an asynchronous, AJAX (JQuery) based rich client to improve customer experience.  • Developed the UI panels using JSF, XHTML, CSS, DOJO and JQuery.  • Designing the web client by using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, EXT JS, and DOJO with JSON.  • Migration of the MVC based Reporting framework to GWT (Google Web Toolkit) using GWT-EXT.  • Java and JSP developer for J2EE web application on WAS, DB2 and AIX.  • Worked on JDBC to select and update the data from the MySQL database  • Used TOAD for database query testing, in the process of optimizing the queries  • Developed Web Services to communicate to other modules using XML based SOAP and WSDL protocols.  • Configuration and deployment of application on to Jboss application server  • Expertise in employing Water Fall Model and best practices for software development  • Participated in converting the business requirements to software specifications using Rational UML  • Developed Servlets and Worked extensively on Sql.  • Used ANT scripts to build the application and deployed on WebSphere Application Server.  • Quickly learned iText and implemented to solve Hungarian Special Character Issue.  • Designed and implemented interface elements using Google Web Toolkit.  • Contributed to organization of testing and quality improvement process (JIRA, Confluence).  • Designed Interactive GUIs using Java Applets and Swing.  • Install and configure a Linux server to publish applications and the DataBase  • Developed Dash-Board to monitor and report Cache Coherence Servers.    Environments:  Spring, Ibatis, Struts , Ejb, Dojo, Javascript, Jquery, Dojo, Mysql, Toad, Sql Server, Apache Axis2 , Wsdl, Netbeans, Jboss, Mercurial, Clearcase, Selenium, Water Fall Model, Jsp, Servlet, Ant, Itext, Gwt, Jira, Swing, Cognos, Ilog, Jrules, Web 2.0, Apache Tomcat, Linux, Unix, Wordpress, Drupal Java Developer CVS - Seattle, WA December 2010 to July 2012 Description:  The Concurrent Versions System (CVS), also known as the Concurrent Versioning System, is a free software client-server revision control system in the field of software development. CVS Pharmacy is a subsidiary of the American retail and health care company CVS Health, headquartered in Woonsocket, Rhode Island.    Responsibilities:  • Implemented the server side design using the industry standard J2EE design patterns like Business Delegate, Service Locator, Business Interface, Session Facade, and Data Access Object.  • Utilized various Rational Rose design methodologies for developing the framework.  • Used J2EE design patterns like Spring MVC  • Developed the application using Spring framework.  • Created sequence diagrams to show the page flows using WSAD.  • Developed Client side screens in XML using XSLT.  • Developed front-end screens using JSP and Tag Libraries.  • Used Hibernate for mapping object oriented design model to relational database.    Environment:  Java, J2ee, Spring, Websphere, Wsad, Oracle , Jdbc, Hiberante, Java Servlets, Jsp, Uml, Rational Rose, Javascript, Xml, Html, Junit Software Developer IBM - New York, NY September 2009 to November 2010 Description: Consumer portal used by sprint customer to setup plans and make payments using various device through phone, computer etc. User can also select Bolton addOn service once account is setup.    Responsibilities:  * Involved in analysis, design and development of Portfolio Management.  * Created Use case diagrams, Class diagrams and Activity diagrams using Microsoft Visio.  * Followed iterative approach in timely manner.  * Developed front-end using JSP, HTML, CSS, JAVA Script and J query.  * Responsible for developing Servlet.  * Involved in implementing database design, connectivity and access.  * Wrote MySQL queries and used JDBC API.  * Worked in Windows environment for building the application using net beans IDE.  * Developed test cases and performed unit testing using J Unit.  * Extensively used Collabnet subversion for version control.  * Used Glassfish Server for deploying various components of application.    Environment:  Java, J2ee, Java Sdk, Jsp, Html, Jdbc, Ooad, Servlets, Svn, Mysql, Windows Xp Professional, Java Script, J Query, Glassfish Server, Net Beans Ide, Microsoft Visio. Software Developer Sovereign Bancorp Mortgage - Philadelphia, PA September 2008 to August 2009 Sovereign Bancorp is the holding company for Sovereign Bank. Sovereign bank is largely a thrift bank, which means it takes on bank deposits in order to issue mortgage and other types of loans and doesn't engage in corporate banking, brokering, or underwriting.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in modifying, updating and testing of the component.  • Involved in group meeting with teammates and made substantial changes to the architecture to improve performance of the Application.  • Modified JSPs, used struts tag libraries and Java Server Pages Standard Tag Library (JSTL).  • Maintained Struts architecture throughout the application.  • Developed the bean classes for better data exchange between the MVC layers  • Used multi threading and socket programming.  • Deployed the application on WebLogic Application Server.  • Created connection pools and data sources.  • Suggested ER models and changes in the table structures  • Modified SQL, PL/SQL procedures and triggers to obtain optimize output.  • Solved performance issues and brought optimal output from the available resources.    Environments:  Java, J2ee, Sybase, Bea Weblogic Server, Jstl, Sql Server, Struts, Servlets, Jsp, Ejb, Wincvs, Javabeans, Eclipse, Uml, Windows Xp/Linux. Education SCJP in Computer Science UNIVERSITY OF GEORGIA Skills Hibernate, Java, J2Ee, Spring, Java J2Ee