Mobile QA Engineer Mobile QA Engineer Mobile QA Engineer Foster City, CA Enthusiastic, versatile engineer with testing and development experience seeking a position in front end web development. Work Experience Mobile QA Engineer Netflix - Los Gatos, CA March 2019 to May 2019 • Full manual black-box/end user, functional and regression testing for a production set status application on iPhone and Android platforms.  • Created, modified and executed test cases. Identified issues and entered them into the company bug tracking system communicating with internal development teams to track and bring about their successful resolution. Test Engineer YouTube via Virtusa - San Bruno, CA December 2016 to November 2018 • Complete end user manual black-box execution of functional, and accessibility tests for various new features of the YouTube Gaming mobile application on iPhone and Android platforms. Scenarios included UI/UX verification, payments, i18n, live streaming, chat, regression, end to end and networking constraint testing.  • Worked within a QA team to modify and execute test cases. Identified issues and entered them into the company bug tracking system communicating with internal development teams to track and bring about their successful resolution. Mobile Software Tester August Home - San Francisco, CA May 2015 to December 2016 CA  • Full acceptance and functional end user testing of the August Home iOS and Android based mobile applications.  • Verification of functionality of app with components of the August smart home ecosystem which includes Bluetooth based door locks, network bridges, keypads and cameras, the firmware and server resources required by these as well as third party software / hardware components and partner integrations.  • Working with Jira, Confluence and TestRail to modify, create and execute test cases, file defects and generate reports.  Mobile Software QA Mobile QA Tester AT&T - Bothell, WA October 2013 to April 2015 Bothell, WA  • Complete lifecycle testing of native mobile sales application on iPad using HP (Winrunner) Quality Center.  • As a member of the QA team, co-created the project test plan and test cases from functional requirements and design documents based on AT&T organizational standards and procedures.  • Executed integrated system, functional and regression testing entering defects into the company QC issue tracking system. Complete lifecycle testing of native mobile sales application on iPhone, Android and BlackBerry platforms using HP Quality Center. Executed integrated system, functional and regression tests entering defects into the company QC issue tracking system. As a member of the QA team, co-created the project test plan and test cases from functional requirements and design documents based on AT&T organizational standards and procedures. Mobile Software QA Netspend - Austin, TX May 2013 to August 2013 • Executed manual black-box/end user, functional and regression tests for a mobile banking application on iPhone and Android platforms entering defects into the company Atlassian Jira issue tracking system.  • Used testing and development tools to analyze and determine issue details such as Xcode, Instruments, Chrome Javascript console, Eclipse and Git/Sourcetree.  • Worked within a QA team in an agile environment to create, modify and execute test cases rd communicating with internal and 3 party development teams to track issues and bring about their successful resolution. Mobile Software Developer Spendom - San Francisco, CA June 2011 to July 2012 Designed and executed tests for a shopping / daily deals application. The application was built with the Titanium Platform SDK and written in Javascript. Discussed design, cross-platform issues, usability, scalability, security with the team. Identified and fixed bugs. Collaborated with the server-side developers on web service integration. Mobile Software Developer Verizon Wireless - Bedminster, NJ January 2011 to June 2011 Tested and verified changes for software solutions within the corporate IT group supporting application migration to mobile devices using the Android platform. Mobile Software Developer MobiTV - Emeryville, CA June 2010 to September 2010 Implemented and verified fixes to mobile products based on defect report tracking system at the scripting level in Lua for content delivery client applications. Mobile Software Developer Sony Ericsson - Redwood City, CA August 2009 to February 2010 Worked with lead developers and project managers in an iterative agile project methodology to integrate, develop, verify, maintain and test mobile applications for new device platforms. Technologies Include: Android, Java, Eclipse, Git, Repo, make, Junit, Agile, Linux, SQLite Mobile Software QA Tester Autodesk - San Rafael, CA April 2008 to December 2008 • Performed QA testing of BREW Location Agent, mobile location based services applications. And communicated the status of issues to developers in a timely manner escalating issues as required.  • Executed complete end to end, usage, functionality and regression tests recording issues in the company's Clarify defect tracking system.  • Created and edited test plan cases and application submission documents. Mobile Software Developer XRinger - San Jose, CA March 2006 to September 2007 • Developed and tested software using the company's mobile application platform in J2ME for delivering ringtones, images and video across multiple handsets.  • Collaborated with team members to develop applications with and to extend the client-server XML state based framework as defined by the schema. The J2ME implementation of this framework allowed for flexible, reconfigurable data and content driven user interfaces with persistent state caching to improve performance and better deal with handset limitations. Education None in Computer Science San Jose State University - San Jose, CA BS in Mechanical Engineering University of Massachusetts - Amherst, MA Skills ANDROID, BOOTSTRAP, IOS, IPAD, IPHONE, XCODE, MOBILE DEVICES, JUNIT, SOFTWARE QA, TEST PLAN, USABILITY, Git, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, SCRIPTING, XML, NETWORKING, ECLIPSE, JAVA Additional Information Skills  • JavaScript web development experience including coursework over a 5 month training sequence. Technologies used and applied in group and individual efforts included Git, Backbone, React JS, Angular, Mongo DB, Testing, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap.  • Technical positions included both mobile testing and development.  Software QA, XML, iPhone, Java, Xcode, Networking, Wireless, Testing, Cases, Test Plan, Android, Test Cases, Regression Testing, iPad, Winrunner, Javascript, Usability, Eclipse, Git, Linux, Clarify, JUnit, Mobile Devices, Lua, Scripting, Deployment, iOS, Mac, MySQL