Lead Consultant Lead Consultant Software Lead, Manager San Diego, CA A Software professional with around 19 years of extensive experience in analyzing, design, development and managing of Software projects. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Lead Consultant Cubic Transportation System - San Diego, CA May 2006 to Present • Lead and manage a team of engineers to certify software and hardware for use in production.  • Develop software applications to automate highly complex test procedures and tasks.  • Requirements Definition, System Modelling for automatic fare collection systems.  • Manage and support field installation and testing with Customer.  • Perform internal ISO audits to verify internal processes and suggest improvement and modification if necessary.  • Design and develop software for devices used in Automatic Fare Collection devices.  Providing management and guidance to testing leads.  • Worked on New York open payment system for system testing and integration.  • Worked on Brisbane, Australia, smartcard public transportation system.  • Worked on Minneapolis project, for light rail road project. Project Lead ACS Germany August 2005 to April 2006 Requirements capturing, designing and leading team for software development of Handheld communication system. Team Lead General Electric, GE - IN December 2003 to July 2005 Worked on design, development of various power plant products, including Gen Gauge, a power plant optimization and designing tool. Project Lead, Software Developer ICICI Bank - IN May 2002 to November 2003 Designing, development of CTIS(Computer Telephony Interface System) Software Developer, Module Lead GameKing - IN September 2001 to April 2002 Designed and developed video games using OpenGL and DirectX. Software Developer Indian Space Research Organization - IN March 2001 to August 2001 Developed applications for Satellite payload related products. Education Bachelor's in Computer Science VJTI - Mumbai, Maharashtra Skills C++, Vc++, Magic, Jira, Selenium, Vmware, SCCM, Active Directory, Linux Additional Information Skills:  Languages: C, C++, VC++, Java, C sharp, AutoIT, Selenium.  Tools: Magic Draw, Doors, Quality Centre, Test Director, Jira, Clearcase.