Software Engineer <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Software Engineer - ComplyRight Inc Delray Beach, FL Work Experience Software Engineer ComplyRight Inc - Pompano Beach, FL August 2018 to Present Work collaboratively with Product Owners and the SmartApps team to provide rapid, robust and client-acclaimed solid application, providing architectural ideas to move the platform to Microservices Architecture.    Accomplishments:  • Led and designed the CI/CD Devops practices (Jenkins on Azure)  • Coached and trained other developers on Clean Code practices focusing on S.O.L.I.D Principles, Code Smells, Test Driven Development(TDD), Refactoring techniques, and Design Patterns.  • Collaborated and participated in the design, testing and deployment Microservices architecture System.  • Developed 35% of the Company Policies application.  • Developed 45% of the Harassment Training application including the streaming video training with an excellent performance using CDN.  • Developed reusable Angular components that dropped the developers time of code in 3% with Angular.    Tools: C#, .NET 4.5, ASP.NET MVC & Web Api, HTML 5, XML, CSS 3, Bootstrap, jQuery, Angular 5, Entity Framework 6, StructureMap, Autofac(Dependency Injection), TDD, MSUnit, NUnit, Moq, FluentAssertion, Design Patterns, S.O.L.I.D Principles, UML, SQL Sever 2014, Azure WebApps, Team Foundation Server (TFS), Git - Bitbucket, Jira, Jenkins, CDN -Akamai, Scrum - Agile. Software Engineer Vertical Bridge - Boca Raton, FL May 2018 to August 2018 Develop, maintain and support application programs for administrative Web Systems using .Net and related tools. Analyze code for system testing and debugging; create test transactions to find, isolate and rectify issues.    Accomplishments:  • Tower Location System: Maintained the Tower Location System, migrating the UI to Boostrap, and improving performance 10% faster and more responsive.    Tools: C#, .NET 4.5, .NET Core 2.1, ASP.NET MVC, ASP.NET Core, WebApi, NUnit, Moq, FluentAssertion, Design Patterns, S.O.L.I.D Principles, UML, Dependency Injection (Unity), HTML 5, XML, CSS 3, Bootstrap, jQuery, AngularJS 1.5, Angular 5, EF 6, EF Core 2.1, SQL Sever 2012, Team Foundation Server (TFS), Jenkins, Elastic, Logistash, and Kibana (ELK), Scrum - Agile Software Engineer Client First Settlement Funding - Boca Raton, FL August 2016 to May 2018 Work collaboratively with users and in-house sales team to provide rapid, robust and client-acclaimed front- and back-end web development optimizing user experience, search engine external tool for.    Accomplishments:  • Lead Management System( LMS ): Maintained the system of Documents Management.  Designed and developed a module for controlling the cost of getting legal documents.  Enhanced the documents expenses control in 50%.    • Infocenter: Maintained and developed enhancement to the system for Financial Business  Decisions. Designed and developed a module of Questionnaires. Designed and developed theWPF (MVVM) version of the system that allows the users to generate business process from a Desktop environment. Ensured the encryption of the file to interchange between the web and desktop  environment.  • Executive Lead Management (ELM): Led the development and assisted with design of web system that assigns bulks of accounts in Microsoft Dynamic CRM 2011.    • Developed a WebApi that proxy the CRM 2011 Web Service(.svc) for assigning accounts.    Tools: C#, .NET, ASP.NET MVC, Microsoft CRM 2011, CRM SOAP Service, WebApi, SignalR, NUnit, Moq, FluentAssertion, Design Patterns, S.O.L.I.D Principles, UML, HTML 5, XML, XSLT, CSS 3, JQUERY, KnockoutJS, AngularJS 1.4 - 1.6, Angular 4, Entity Framework 6, SQL Sever 2012, Team City, Splunk, IIS, Jira, Confluence, Scrum - Agile Software Engineer Soluciones Inteligentes S.A - Quito, EC April 2015 to August 2015 Led the architecture, designed, developed online Ticketing System, for Commercial Center's  Inaquito (CCI).    • Developed SOAP Web Services for Financial, Accounting, and Documents Tracking systems.    • Migrated an Accounting System form Visual Basic 6.0 to a Web Application according  specifications.    Tools: .NET 4.5, ASP.NET MVC, WebForms, Visual Basic 6.0, Soap WebService, UML, HTML 5, CSS 3, JQUERY, Sql Server 2012, git. Chief Information Officer National Clinical Trial Center August 2014 to April 2015 Member of Management Executive Committee for the company. Establish and maintain long range automation vision; direct planning, implementation and support of information system projects and production processing in alignment with corporate directives and strategies to ensure timely and cost effective processes are developed and maintained. Plan for staffing needs, manage and direct 12 personnel, contractors/vendors and user community to deliver timely proactive I&T services. Representative accomplishments include:    Accomplishments:  • Coordinated Home Office relocations with low interruptions of all the services  • Coordinated facilities/property management re: logistics/administrative support services, users/vendors/consultants relationships.  • Directed planning and project management of multiple strategic initiatives, e.g. selection and implementation of systems innovations/replacements, infrastructure improvements, risk management, data security/privacy controls, etc.  • Established/reinforced operating structure providing systems availability at 99.9% standard across user community, including performance monitoring, SPAM filtering, desktop management software improvements, and higher speed internet access feeds. Sr. Software Architect National Clinical Trial Center August 2009 to August 2014 Managed Clinical Trial System development project that increase productive of the Clinical Trial Analysis process by 40%.    Accomplishments:  • Managed, maintained, and supported Cuban Registry of Clinical Trials that improved efficiency by 80%, obtainig the certification of Primary registry of WHO.  • Designed and implemented a development Methodology to control high quality and rapid development utilizing AGILE development practices combining Extreme Programming(XP) with Scrum.  • Managed the daily task of the junior developers and was responsible for the professional development.  • Designed the desktop application that was more efficient with business practices by integrating the enterprise CRM solution.  Tools: .NET 3.5, ASP.NET MVC, php 5, MySQL, HTML, CSS, Jquery, JSON, PostgresSQL, Soap WebService, , Bootstrap, JSON, AJAX, ADO.NET, UML, SQL Server 2008, NUnit, Moq, Visual Paradigm, Git, Subversion, Hudson.    National Clinical Trials Center Sr. Software Engineer August 2008 to August 2009 Develop, maintain and support application programs for administrative and scientists, Web Systems using .Net and related tools. Analyze code for system testing and debugging; create test transactions to find, isolate and rectify issues; and manage a team of three programmers.    Accomplishments:  • Re-engineered Pharmacy Warehouse System that fueled improvements to productivity, efficiency, uptime and accuracy for global business operations. Developed code, system design and test/QA plans for all solutions and often coordinated the national or international rollout.  • Led, architected and participated in the design, testing and deployment n-tier System of selection for Kidney Transplants System applications, web.  • Developed new procedures for requirements gathering, needs analysis, testing, scripting and documentation to strengthen quality and functionality of business-critical applications.  • Developed large-scale, portable, thread-safe and ultra-high performance foundation and application infrastructure libraries.  • Trained and mentored junior programmers in programming Agile methodology and best practices.  • Served as a core group member in defining and prioritizing technology investments for the next two years, ensuring the alignment of process, technology and business objectives.    Tools: .NET 3.5, ASP.NET MVC, Visual Basic 6.0(Migration), MySQL, HTML, CSS, Jquery, JSON, PostgresSQL, , Soap WebService, , Bootstrap, JSON, AJAX, ADO.NET, SQL Server 2008, NUnit, Moq, Visual Paradigm, Git, Subversion, Cruise Control Junior Sofware Developer PalmaSoft S.A August 2005 to August 2008 Develop, maintain and support PalmaSoft ERP, Desktop application. Analyze code for system testing and debugging; create test transactions to find, isolate and rectify issues; and redesigned Sql Server databases.    Accomplishments:  • Led, architected and participated in the design, testing and deployment of client/server, multitier System of Maintenance Diagnosis, ActiveX and related components.  • Developed new procedures for requirements gathering, needs analysis, testing, scripting and documentation to strengthen quality and functionality of business-critical applications.  • Generated UML diagrams for the system for documenting the PalmaSoft ERP.  • Applied Rational Unified Process as Engineering Process.  • Developed large-scale, portable applications, infrastructure, and libraries.    Tools: Borland Delphi 7.0, SQL Server 2000, Rational Rose, ErWin, UML, Design Patterns Education Bachelor's Degree in Computer Science JOSE A. ECHEVARRIA HIGHER POLYTECHNIC INSTITUTE - Havana, CU June 2008 Skills Sql server, Sql, .net, C#, Jenkins, .net core, Asp, Asp.net, Mvc, Uml, Angularjs, Team lead, Communication systems, Linux, Java Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/jose-r-b-05869938 https://github.com/bejerano Additional Information Professional Skills  .NET: ? ? ? ? ?  .NET CORE 2.1: ? ? ? ? ?  ASP.NET MVC: ? ? ? ? ?  Sql Server: ? ? ? ? ?  TDD: ? ? ? ? ?  Angular 2-8: ? ? ? ? ?  AngularJS: ? ? ? ? ?  C#: ? ? ? ? ?  Jenkins: ? ? ? ? ?  TeamCity: ? ? ? ? ?  Team Lead: ? ? ? ? ?  UML: ? ? ? ? ?  Communication Systems: ? ? ? ? ?