Technology Team Lead Technology Team Lead Technology Team Lead - Colonial Life, South Carolina Columbia, SC Accomplished technical team leader with over 4 years of experience in managing program and multiple teams, 12 years of experience in deploying and maintaining mission critical software on large scale distributed production systems. Possesses a proven ability to lead by example, consistently meet deadlines, improve best practices and organize time efficiently. Adept at multitasking and handling multiple projects via excellent project planning. Has strong fundamental IT knowledge owing to graduation from one of the top 10 universities in India. Work Experience Technology Team Lead Colonial Life, South Carolina March 2016 to Present • Coordinate with Product Managers and Development teams to refine, organize, and prioritize requirements.  • Coordinate with Release Management to ensure Production upgrade checklists adheres to timelines agreed upon with customers.  • Reviewed work breakdown structures and schedules, defined project requirements, implemented approved changes, managed scope, and ensured project deliverables align with quality standards.  • Investigate escalated issues which require expert knowledge  • Work with various software vendors for issue resolution  • Strategize and plan new product rollouts to ensure smooth go-live and maintenance  • Prepare weekly workloads for staff & coordinate the daily allocation of work  • Motivate the team to achieve high quality standards and tight deadlines  • Mentor and train juniors and new staff  • Arrange and chair weekly team meetings, focusing on targets & achievements  • Design and implement REST WEB APIs on top of the database to access and update the data.  • Working with team members who are responsible for designing, coding and modifying the ICAP application, form layout to function and according to Functional Specification and Technical Approach.  • Responsible for development cycle including high-level design, data design, coding, testing, and creation of functional documentation. System Analyst Fiserv Inc - Atlanta, GA June 2011 to March 2016 • Involve in requirements gathering from client, conceptual design, analysis, and detail design, development and system testing.  • Finalize implementation approach of user stories, provide estimations and prepare design documents.  • Worked 1 year onsite in Sydney Australia for Westpac bank.  • Develop the site using C#, MVC Architecture, HTML, ASP.Net, WCF, SQL Server 2008, NUnit, and Angular.  • Reviewed and approved change controls prepared by other team members  • Reviewed and approved Hotfix requests, prepare & implement Change Controls for all production environments  • Coordinated requirements with development teams, implement changes and manage production system upgrades, ensuring steps in the critical path are completed without delay  • Prepare and publish various reports on project progress and update status reports for leadership Senior Software Developer Fulcrum Logic - Pune, Maharashtra December 2008 to August 2010 • Designed and developed application in .net 3.0 Framework. Deployed a large scale of applications on Web Form capable of running heterogeneous databases. Used ASP.NET, C#, ADO.NET, XML and AJAX technologies.  • Designed and developed Multi-tier and multi layered scalable workflow application with on screen/Email alters using C# and ASP.NET. Software Developer Live Weaver - Pune, Maharashtra January 2007 to November 2008 • Played a Key role in the entire SDLC of this project, design application architecture and data modeling. Gathered Requirements from Stakeholders.  • Worked with Business Analyst to convert Business Requirements in to Technical Specifications. Wrote Use cases.    Technical Skills  • Operating Systems Windows.  • Database SQL Server 2016, Redis, Oracle  • High Availability VMware  • Web Technologies ASP.Net, WCF, Web API, Microservices, .Net framework 4.5, MVC, HTML, XML, SOAP  Design Patterns, IIS, Bootstrap, Typescript, CSS.  • General Software JIRA, TFS, Microsoft Office, BMC Remedy, Quality Center, Visual Studio 2017, Bit Bucket, MS Project, MS Visio, Jenkins, Rally.  • Familiar with Apache Kafka, NoSQL  • Load Balancers F5, CSM.  • Programming Languages C#  • JS Framework Angular 7 Education Higher Diploma in Software Engineering in Software Engineering NIIT - Pune, Maharashtra June 2006 Bachelor of Engineering in chemical Pune University - Pune, Maharashtra May 2005 Skills Angular, Json Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/yogesh-kolpe