Senior Software Engineer Senior <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Senior Software Engineer Baltimore, MD Work Experience Senior Software Engineer DataBank - Baltimore, MD February 2015 to August 2019 Release Process - Took charge of the development team and coordinated a new release process for EpicorITSM, public website and web services. The process created reliability, reproducibility and  accountability to our deployment process. Also created automated tools to help deploy SQL scripts and copy files to production servers.    • Database To Webservice Translator - Designed and built a framework in C# to automatically convert  the result sets of SQL queries into a serializable object structure to be returned through web services.    • Epicor Webservice REST Translator - Identified a need for and created a .NET web service that  would parse the EpicorITSM SOAP services and create a RESTful, this allowed other departments to more easily create integration points to our CRM without requiring custom development from the  Development department. Also created documentation and provided training on how to access the services.    • Elastic Search Queries - Created elastic search queries to provide front end data. Coordinated with the ELK stack engineer to setup log capture properly as well as the offshore front end developers to  format the data to be consumed by the UI layer.    • RabbitMQ Implementation - Identified a need for and created a process to push all EpicorITSM  database change notifications into RabbitMQ. This decoupled our integration from the application  source as well as provided redundancy, error recovery and logging.    • SalesForce, NetSuite and CloudBolt Integrations - Designed, developed and documented integration  to 3rd party applications via .NET WCF Web Services and RabbitMQ Listeners. Software Engineer Travel Advantage Network - Glen Burnie, MD July 2010 to February 2015 Database To Webservice Translator - Designed and built a framework in C# to automatically convert  the result sets of SQL queries into a serializable object structure to be returned through web services.    • Internal Integration Services - Created web services to easily allow for booking and reservation  information from our main application to be shared with all of our websites.    • External Integration Services - Worked with an external sales partner to create a web service to allow account information between our two disparate systems to be shared in real time. Designed the  mapping and key exchange model for the service. Tracked and managed bug fixes as well as testing on the service.    • Interactive Voice Recording Payment System - Project managed several small phone system  applications to allow automatic payments to be made over the phone. Managed meetings between testers and 3rd party developers to facilitate end user acceptance testing. Also provided technical  assistance and tracked bug fix development for the internal and external teams    • General SQL Query Support - Provided other departments with assistance querying our database.  Helped write and verify the integrity of SQL queries for our SQL Reports developer. Ran SQL traces to provide technical details to our core application's development team for debugging. Programmer Connections Academy - Baltimore, MD April 2008 to January 2010 Learning Management System - Helped migrate our Learning Management System from ASP.NET  1.1 to ASP.NET 3.5. Increased performance and scalability by optimizing .NET code and SQL  refactoring. Created utility libraries to reduce future coding effort as well as minimize code  redundancy.    • Extended Field Calculator - Extensively redesigned and maintained our data calculation application.  Significantly increased performance by replacing large DataTables with a more optimized set of List and Dictionary objects. Also designed new methods to allow for a looping control structure and new  variable registration inside of formulas.    • Code Review & Standards - Participated in code reviews to ensure all code was up to standards.  Helped new developers learn our patterns and practices. Programmer Bravo Health - Baltimore, MD February 2007 to April 2008 Membership Rapid Data Entry - Designed and developed an ASP.NET 2.0 application using C# and MS SQL Server 2000 to accelerate the process of adding new members. Utilized an existing address  verification webservice, SharePoint server, and SSRS report to allow batch approvals.    • Inbound Membership Verification Application - Designed and developed a C# ASP.NET 2.0  application connect to MS SQL Server 2000 to allow the Membership Accounting department to review membership applications for approval into an automated enrollment process. The application  used an existing Reporting Services report to present the data in a familiar way, but wrapped them in a web application to allow the approval process to be done in customized batches.    • SQL Reporting - Used MS SQL Reporting Services 2000 to both develop new reports and maintain  existing reports for management analysis.    • SQL DTS Maintenance - Responsible for maintaining, testing and deploying DTS packages on an array of SQL servers.    • Report Parser - Designed a C# Windows application to replace key words in existing reports to facilitate company rebranding from ElderHealth to BravoHealth.    • Qnxt Data Analysis and Maintenance - Assisted with data analysis on the Qnxt system to find  erroneous and conflicting data, as well as made suggestions on ways to correct the data and how to import data from legacy systems. Responsibilities included interfacing directly with end users to  gather and develop specifications, as well as working with Analysts on already existing  specifications. Developer Catalyst IT Services - Baltimore, MD July 2004 to February 2007 Genesys Archive Conversion - Converted a legacy flat file database mainframe system to a SQL  Server 2005 database with a C# ASP.NET 2.0 interface.    • Bally Total Fitness Martial Arts - Developed a calendaring web application and content management  system. Major responsibilities included managing a team of 3 other developers, designing an abstracted data layer, and helping to make sure the application met all required deliverables. Network Administrator Louisburg College - Louisburg, NC 1999 to July 2004 • Served on Title 3 Board, providing technical expertise and recommendations.  • Installed and maintained various network servers.  • Provided help desk support to end users. Skills Ado, Ado.net, Sql server, Sql server 2000, Sql, Visual studio, C#, Html, Javascript, Vb.net, Xml, Ajax, Asp, Css, Iis, Asp.net, Web services, Ssrs Additional Information Skills ASP.NET 1.1 - 4.5 C#, VB.NET SQL Server 2000, 2005, 2008, 2012  Web Forms LINQ Visual Studio 2003 - 2010  Web Services HTML & CSS DTS & SSIS & SSRS  AJAX XML IIS  Windows Applications ADO.NET JavaScript