Director, Software Engineering - PMO Director, <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineering - PMO Director, Software Engineering - Program Management Office Schwenksville, PA Work Experience Director, Software Engineering - PMO Arris Group 2014 to Present Established and led the Software Program Management and Vendor Management organizations, reporting directly to the Vice President of Engineering. Supervised team of 11 Program Managers responsible for 70+ ARRIS in-home products accounting for nearly $3 billion in annual revenue. Developed and enforced team charters which focused on scheduling¸ communication, quality, processes and resource allocation. Actively guided these multi-site (domestic and international) teams in their daily interactions with cross-functional teams as well as defining the long-term objectives of the entire software development organization. Drove efficiencies through adoption of common tools and methodologies for schedule tracking, status reporting, risk identification/mitigation, escalations and action items. Held leadership role on the security teams responsible for identifying, tracking and crafting external communications for sensitive security issues on all products. Integral in generating new business through the RFI/RFP/SOW process which included multi-vendor proposals and direct customer interaction. Previously managed new feature development and process improvements for ARRIS' interface layer between SOC device drivers and various RDK stacks. Senior Manager, Software Engineering Arris Group - Horsham, PA 2014 to Present Principal Engineer Arris Group - Horsham, PA 2008 to 2012 Staff Software Engineer Arris Group - Horsham, PA 2005 to 2008 Lead engineer overseeing several multi-site teams of engineers for the Digital Terminal Adapter (DTA) product line with more than 10 million units deployed in domestic and international markets. This role included scheduling, resource allocation, prioritization, level of effort estimates and technical leadership in all aspects of the software and product life cycle utilizing Agile/Scrum development process. Planned software releases through coordinating efforts of software development, systems engineering, marketing and test groups. Managed customer expectations and allocated resources based on their priorities gathered through direct customer meetings. Also managed Motorola's joint venture partners that required an in-depth knowledge of all aspects of the software design, system components and messaging. This effort supported over 100 million devices deployed in worldwide markets. Excellent communication and organizational skills were required to interface with multiple internal teams and external organizations such as vendors, Independent Software Vendors (ISVs) and customers. Program Manager Formation, Inc - Moorestown, NJ 2003 to 2005 Responsible for managing the full product life cycle of an advanced digital record/replay system for Air Traffic Control, Defense and Home Land Security applications. This product line accounted for nearly 25% of the company's yearly revenues with an annual budget of over $800,000. Functioned as the program's main customer and vendor contact. Managed customer expectations in light of resource constraints in terms of requirements development, sales support and continuation engineering. Held vendor's accountable for schedule and quality commitments. Coordinated the efforts of the company's program management, engineering, manufacturing and quality assurance departments. Provided day-to-day direction to the program team as well as to supporting organizations to authorize budgets, schedules and tasks. Reported directly to Corporate Management to ensure that resources were adequate to achieve program objectives. Primarily responsible for development and maintenance of project documentation and procedures as part of company-wide ISO2001 re-certification. Spearheaded the overhaul of the product's test plan and product training program. Key participant in the company's sales and marketing efforts through trade shows, product demonstrations and proposal evaluations and submissions. Software Developer Seachange International - Fort Washington, PA February 2003 to September 2003 Functioned as a senior level engineer on a team that developed software for an embedded client-server environment. Full software life-cycle tasks included developing requirements and code designs as part of the software documentation effort, reviewing and mentoring other engineers, coding, implementation, and test scheduling and execution. Lead Software Developer/Project Manager Agility Communications - Allentown, PA 2001 to 2003 Responsible for leading a team of software, hardware and process engineers in the development of a high accuracy pick-and-place machine for the manufacturing of advanced fiber-optic components. This machine operated in a class 100 clean room/ESD-safe environment and incorporated innovative solutions for robotic control, machine vision, data communication and process control. Completely designed the software architecture, using the UML, that seamlessly integrated Visual Basic, Visual C++ COM objects and XML into a highly flexible, object-oriented application. Planned and executed the software development effort by allocating resources to meet schedule milestones. Developed the team's software-coding standard and implemented the version control system. Led the effort to install a Devicenet communication system on the machine to provide high-speed and highly reliable data communication for sensors, solenoids, barcode readers, magazine handlers and conveyor system. Developed specification for and coordinated the efforts of several outside contractors that provided the robot and numerous critical sub-systems. Interfaced with investors and potential customers through detailed presentations that covered all aspects of the company's capabilities. Developed low-level device interfaces in Java for various measurement instruments. Lead Software Developer/ Software Manager InterDigital Communications - King of Prussia, PA 2000 to 2001 Functioned as a technical lead for the company's third generation (3G) wireless protocol stack development effort. Specifically, led the team that developed the MAC layer (layer 2 of the OSI model) from initial concept, using the emerging 3GPP specifications, through system integration and testing. Responsibilities included all decisions regarding the overall design of the MAC layer, resource scheduling using MS Project, guiding a team in implementing this design in a model developed using the Telelogic SDL tool combined with C, debugging, unit testing, integration and system testing. Contributed to company-wide quality initiative that defined the standard operating procedures for every project to use in documenting the development cycle of their product. Lead Software Developer Lucent Technologies - Breinigsville, PA 1998 to 2000 Lead software developer for two fiber-optic product lines that generate in excess of $1 million in revenue per calendar day. These world class high-output manufacturing lines operated 24 hours/day, 7 days/week with a requirement of 98% operating time. The pick-and-place machines used to meet these aggressive requirements incorporated a PMAC robot controller board, digital I/O, Cognex 5600 vision system, MEI servo motor controller and PID-based temperature controllers. In addition to a thorough knowledge of C++, OOA and OOD, an understanding of the process and parameters was required. Duties also included hardware trouble-shooting, robot fine-tuning and technician training and support. Led the effort to overhaul the system's database interface to provide 100 percent reliability, data integrity and product traceability that is required by ISO-9000. Oversaw the expansion on these lines from 8 machines to a total of 34 machines, including complete system installation (hardware and software) from the ground up, signal and sensor setup and all networking requirements. Responsible for scheduling resources and assigning priorities for platform enhancements and debugging. Designed web applications using HTML, PERL and CGI to enhance communication between engineers and technicians. General Instrument, Lockheed Martin and Naval Air Warfare Center 1989 to 1998 Held engineering roles at General Instrument, Lockheed Martin and Naval Air Warfare Center Education Master of Science in Electrical Engineering Villanova University 1996 Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering Drexel University 1989