Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer Hutto, TX Fourteen years' experience in the full systems development life-cycle including requirements gathering using Joint Application Design (JAD) and Joint Requirements Planning (JRP), analysis, design, prototyping, programming, testing, integration, documentation, training, database conversion and implementation activities.    Thirty years' experience in the construction industry. I was the Assistant Superintendent for Verde Wells Branch Apartment community and built a new apartment in 2008 and 2009. I have owned and operated my own handyman, remodeling service the last couple of years. I have enjoyed the construction and remodeling service, but miss the problem solving and challenges of software development. I have decided to return to software development and have not included my construction/remodeling positions in my professional experience. They are available upon request.    Expert in Windows Installer / MSI.  Administrator of source control systems Source safe and Team Foundation Server (TFS).  Linux Administration including Bash and python scripting  Experienced in C++, C#, T-SQL, SQL Server, MySQL, PHP, HTML, Bash and Linux CSS  Excellent multitasking and problem solving skills.  Installation design and code customized for the products. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Developer Bridge 360 May 2016 to June 2016 PHP application development on AWS. Skills used: CSS HTML JavaScript jQuery and PHP. Using JIRA Management and BitBucket (git)  Contract Ended. IT Software Engineer Sunbelt Transformers November 2015 to February 2016 Short term software administration and development work in linux and PHP using a lamp server and java scripts. Helped eliminate 3 cloud servers the company did not need. help set up GIT source control and help eliminate unused directories and files in the source code. Helped set up development environment and processes. Software Engineer University of Texas - Center, TX November 2012 to November 2015 Linux C++ coding for a network modeling software. This product is used to model how traffic flows dynamically on streets and highways. Adding java utilities to enhance the analysis of network data. This includes sub-network analysis. Modify databases and installation processes so the product works on the super computer(Stampede) at TACC. Adding reporting agents for further analysis of data. Maintained support for students and faculty. Maintained the Linux servers and implemented security. Used Python, PostgreSQL, C++ Java, vba for access and JavaScript. Web Administrator Dakota Electronics August 2009 to March 2010 Responsible for the design and development of the company website, maintained the email system used for automated newsletters and targeted mailings and also handled any other IT related tasks for the office. Used PHP, HTML, CSS with a MySQL backend. Senior Software Engineer Sage Software, Inc - Austin, TX April 2001 to June 2007 Backup Administrator Sage MIP Fund Accounting - Austin, TX June 2000 to January 2001 Provided analysis, guidance, design concepts, programming, testing and implementation services for Sage MIP Fund Accounting, a Fund Accounting application written using C++, C#, HTML, and SQL which was implemented in n-tier client server architecture using Microsoft SQL Server. Incorporated the new Sage Common Desktop using XML parsing to allow user input during installation. Responsible for the installation software for the product which was written using Wise for Windows Installer. Additionally, responsible for the installation software for the Sage Fundraising 50 product and assumed a lead role in rolling out the department wide TFS system.    Concero Inc., Austin, Texas 6/00 - 1/01  Backup Administrator  Researched and implemented new software to be integrated for in-house use, built and maintained consultant's computers, managed backup systems for SQL Server using Veritas and Tivoli Storage Manager, maintained networking systems, worked help desk trouble shooting IT issues. Network Administrator International Textile Center/Texas Tech University - Lubbock, TX October 1997 to January 1999 Managed the computer network and maintained company computers. Developed a Visual Basic application to access raw data from testing equipment and parsed the data into Excel and Access databases. Used Visual Basic 6 to parse raw text data and implement an Access database for cotton testing equipment. Education Bachelor's Degree in Computer Science Texas Tech University - Lubbock, TX August 1996 to May 2000 Skills Python, C, Java, C/C++, NoSQL, Git, Software Development