Senior Security Engineer Senior Security Engineer Senior Security Engineer - Zoosk San Francisco, CA Look for the software development or threat research position who builds threat forensic platform for processing  events, streamline cybersecurity data pipeline to produce structured threat intelligence data.    Technology Overview  ? Seek for the solution for web credential stuffing attack, account take-over and anomaly fraudulent  account creation  ? Use Apache Kafka and Spark to establish and implement threat data processing pipeline  ? Familiar with data exfiltration tactics, BEC attack, Threat behavioral base analysis  ? Establish metrics/dashboard/notification with 3rd party tool, including Slack®, SumoLogic®, NewRelic®  and Datadog®.  ? Java, Python/Pandas in map/reduce and data analysis development  ? Large scale Java development using Maven, Git, Jenkins and CI/CD in cloud environment.  ? Patented Email/HTTP security gateway design. Work Experience Senior Security Engineer Zoosk April 2018 to Present Develop solution to prevent automated bot attack. Use Python/Pandas create analytical engine, mining data from elastic or backend databases and identify attack fingerprint based upon various source vectors  ? Secure company web application and streamline the process to timely deploy defense solution on WAF  ? Scripting on SumoLogic/NewRelic and establish dashboard for monitoring login activities on www or mobile apps  ? Automate triage process after ATO and fraudulent account creation incidents.  ? Create fraudulent photo detection on Spring framework by using Google Vision® and AWS Rekognition®  ? Automate Docker container patch management, inspection and enforcement for production security compliance Senior Data Engineer Area1 Security October 2016 to March 2018 Use Scala/Java to build data pipeline on Apache Spark, implement map reduce process and store at HBase. The  program performs real time analysis, filter/enrich/aggregate data to useful threat information  ? Use C++ to develop async multithreaded web crawler, spidering suspicious domain, collect data with average 1200k  records/second and inject output to Apache Kafka  ? Use C++ to develop domain name monitoring service that collect suspicious targets  ? Use Yara to detect suspicious executable binary and scripts Sr. Software Engineer Trend Micro Inc July 1996 to October 2016 Use Python to develop machine-learning program using colloquially Affinity Analysis, SVM for spam analysis  ? Use Java and CNN to develop unsupervised classification from DGA hostname on data exfiltration traffic  ? Use C++, Judy Array develop threat research platform to digest streaming spam (600k email samples/day) into structured data.  ? Use Perl to create backend service for enabling spam IP reputation query available to the public.  ? Implement patented Email/Web Proxy/FTP Security gateway product from prototyping the product to release and maintain from version 1.0 to 5.x  ? Initiate 3rd party integration projects with handful partners that includes Netscape, Sun Micro System and Cisco. The  solution covers from on-premise, Cloud-base, software or appliance security solution. Sr. Firewall Developer Digital Compaq May 1995 to July 1996 Automate firewall on-premise installation.  ? Use Perl script developing DEC Firewall reporting system to render meaningful statistics for review. Sr. Software Developer Silicon Graphic Inc April 1993 to May 1995 Enable SGI IRIX6 I18N for X11/Motif Window manager for Chinese input using ICCCM protocol.  ? OpenGL and Open Inventor flight simulation development for Taiwan Animation Company. Software Developer SUN Microsystem June 1990 to April 1993 Enable Chinese display on Solaris console. SVGA driver programming.  ? Create patented Chinese printer driver on Solaris. Education BS in Statistics, Computer Science Tamkang University - Taipei, TW July 1986 to July 1989 Skills C/c++, C++, Perl, Python, Java, Data mining, Scala, Performance tuning, Cyber Security, Siem, Network Security Additional Information Skills  ? Data mining, Java/Scala, C/C++, Perl and Python  ? TDD and Secure development lifecycle process  ? SumoLogic, NewRelic, Google Vision, AWS Rekognition, Akamai and Cloudflare WAF and Web Application bot  detection  ? Program Profiling/Refactoring/Performance tuning