Senior Software Developer Senior <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Software Developer - Plains All American Pipeline LP Houston, TX • Over twelve plus years using, designing and implementing Captiva Capture solutions.  • Over fifteen years of experience as a Software Developer with extensive technical skills and practical experience in managing, designing and developing web-based and client/server applications in n-tiers environment.  • Currently working as Senior Software Developer using C#, VB.Net, VB6, JavaScript, ASP.NET MVC, WPF, Telerik, Web Services, WebApi, jQuery, WebAPI, .Net Core, JSON, ADO.net, and XML with SQL Server in back end system.  • Possess extensive cross-industry Business System Analysis, Design and Development experience in large-scale information system  • Strong SQL Server and Access developer skills including writing stored procedures, views, query writing, forms, reports and macros.  • SQL Server Administration skills including user authorizations, database creation, tables, and indexes.  • Experience in database design and database programming using SQL Server 2008/2012/2014 (Stored Procedures, Triggers).  • Strong analytical and problem-solving skills coupled with excellent written, verbal and inter-personnel communication skills.    Tools & Technology  Languages:  C#, Visual C++, VB.Net, Visual Basic 6, VBA (Visual Basic for Applications), VB Script, HTML5, XML, SQL, XAML, LINQ, WPF  Web Technologies:  ASP.Net, ASP.NET MVC, HTML, AJAX, Web Services, CSS (Cascading Style Sheets), Microsoft Silverlight, JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, AngularJS  Frameworks and Tools:  Entity Framework, StructureMap.MVC, NuGet, VSTS  Databases and Tools:  MS SQL Server 05, 08, 12, 14 / Oracle  Report Services:  MS SQL Server Reporting Services  Imaging:  InputAccel 5.1/5.2/7.0 (Document Imaging Systems), Kodak Capture Perfect, Digital Mailroom (OCR), Documentum 5.2    Communications  Well-developed bilingual and fluent English and Spanish communication skills demonstrated through successful interaction with individuals from diverse backgrounds. Proven ability to establish and maintain professional relationships with people of diverse backgrounds. Work Experience Senior Software Developer Plains All American Pipeline LP February 2015 to Present Duties:  ? Assist in the architecture design of upgrading Captiva Capture enterprise content management system from 5.2 to 7.0  ? Develop and maintain solutions for Web & Windows applications utilizing C# with employing OOP concepts  ? Create and maintain web application utilizing ASP.NET MVC and WebAPI.  ? Developed custom web applications in ASP.NET MVC using Telerik controls following SOA architecture  ? Developed custom WCF web services that provided data to applications with Microsoft SQL Server backends  ? Enhanced existing .NET applications and converted older VB6 application to ASP.NET  ? Setup and managed IIS websites for all the applications and web services  ? Design and create Captiva Capture processes that support electronic and physical document consumption into supported internal systems. Senior Software Developer Home Retention Services May 2012 to February 2015 Duties:  ? Assist in the architecture design of upgrading Captiva Capture enterprise content management system from 5.2 to 7.0  ? Develop and maintain solutions for Web & Windows applications utilizing C# with employing OOP concepts  ? Create and maintain web application utilizing ASP.NET and MVC.  ? Utilizing C#, ADO.NET and Entity Framework to implement secure Data Layer components using connected and disconnected strategies. Components consumed by web, windows and console applications utilizing SQL Server and stored procedures to perform logical business transactions.  ? Design and create IA processes that support electronic and physical document consumption into supported internal systems. Modules included Multi-directory Watch, Image Converter, Image Export, Index Export, ODBC Export, Index Plus, Captiva Desktop, Nuance OCR, Dispatcher, Image Enhancement, Image, Multi, Email Importer, .Net module Software Engineer at Schlumberger for QTrac Web Application Sogeti USA April 2011 to May 2012 Duties:  ? Analyze, design, develop, maintain products and assist in their commercialization - in agreement with project technical and timing objectives pertaining to QTrac.  ? Assist in identifying and organizing requirements and producing specifications.  ? Developed updates to QTrac internal website using JavaScript, jQuery, Web Services, C# as front-end technologies, and SQL Server 2008 as backend  ? Design, created and performed updates to tables, views, stored procedures and triggers in SQL Server 2008  ? Provide timely corrective actions on all assigned defects and issues  ? Gather mathematical calculation specifications from engineers and create them as validation functions Consultant/ Software Developer/Architect for BP (British Petroleum) project ScanWerks July 2011 to November 2011 Duties:  ? Architect database schema using SQL Server 2008  ? Developed Windows application using VB.NET that allow users to identify and capture required data off of images.  ? Developed supporting applications written in C# that support the transfer of metadata and images to BP enterprise content management platform.  ? Developed reports using MS SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS).  ? Design Integrated Process Flow Projects (IPPs) for project developed in Visual Basic 6 using EMC Captiva InputAccel enterprise capture platform to support the imaging portion of the project and export IA data in Documentum and SQL Server systems. Software Developer Stewart Lender Services April 2008 to April 2011 Duties:  ? Technology support for 3 departments, whether writing or developing application or websites  ? Write queries using T-SQL statements.  ? Write stored procedures and modified existing ones for better perform.  ? Used Views to prevent unauthorized access.  ? Designed application and dynamic websites using ASP.NET and VB.Net\C# using Visual Studio.NET  ? Using two-tier architecture system with Visual Basic.Net as the front-end interface, Microsoft SQL Server 2008 as data storage, and using ADO for database connectivity and records manipulation.  ? Design and create Integrated Process Flow Projects (IPPs) for new imaging projects using Captiva's InputAccel Process Developer application and export IA metadata into SQL Server databases.  ? Developed E-Stack windows application using VB.NET that allows users to indentify documents at a page level based on the document list provided by client. This project was integrated with InputAccel as the front end and SQL Server on the backend.  ? Design backend system using SQL Server and VB.Net that is part of Stewart Title STEPS eRemit system that allows agencies to quickly upload and submit policy images and registers to Stewart electronically.  ? Architect and developed WFMS (WorkFlow Manangement System) that is Stewart primary enterprise application use to obtain and process title insurance policy and accounting data. The application utilizes forms, reports, queries, VBA code and macros. This application is used in conjunction with STEPS eRemit system. Imaging Systems Manager Stewart Lender Services October 2004 to April 2008 Duties:  ? Responsible for managing the overall systems\production operations of the Imaging department as well as provide support for second and third shifts.  ? Provide associates with necessary information, resources and problem resolution as needed to accomplish projects and goals.  ? Monitors project status and distributes work assignments.  ? Responsible for accurately interpreting the indenture of projects and ensuring compliance guidelines are met.  ? Interacted with clients for requirements gathering and definition  ? Train new employees and existing employees.  ? Involved in development of conceptual and logical designs  ? Develop learning technology solution design documentation.  ? Design Integrated Process Flow Projects (IPPs) for new projects using Visual Basic 6. The creation of IPP involved the programming in VB6, XML configuration, ODBC configuration.  ? Back-end database was MS Access and SQL Server for reporting.  ? Designed database and T-SQL queries  ? Tested, maintained, documented, presented, and deployed applications  ? Responsible for knowing business processes and applying that knowledge to data requirements and integration issues for specific business areas  ? Ensures accuracy, completeness and definition/description of data and its relationships to all applications.  ? Responsible for designing, coding, and supporting applications to meet customer requirements.  ? Provided assistance\support with network team to configure and support InputAccel server.  ? Create customized imaging tools that help support back-end processes such as transferring images via ftp, bind images based on doc types. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science Texas Southern University - Houston, TX May 2005