Developer <span class="hl">Developer</span> Developer - LNI Olympia, WA • Extensive experience in designing and building applications using Microsoft.NET Framework and Visual Studio.NET. Worked in Web Services, Windows Services, Web Applications, WPF, Win Forms, Web Forms, MVC, .NET Remoting and building N-tier Windows applications using C#, ASP.NET, .NET Core, ADO.NET, .NET Remoting, Web Services, Web APIs, JSON, SOAP, MTS, COM+, XML.  • Wide experience developing with frontend technologies as AngularJS, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap, CSS3, HTML5.  • Hands on experience in design using Object Oriented Programming Principles like Encapsulation, Inheritance, Polymorphism, reusability and Design patterns like Dependency Injection, Abstract factory, Singleton, Object pool a standard solution to common problems in software design.  • Experience with Web Services to communicate to other modules using XML based SOAP & RestFul web api and WSDL protocols for developing security features, performance and debugging.  • Solid knowledge in analysis, coding, testing and implementation of projects using state of art technologies like ASP.NET, C#, VB.NET, Visual Studio, SQL Server and Web Services.  • Advanced Power-Shell skills for automation and configuration of Windows and Windows Azure Technologies.  • Implemented the application using Integrated Entity Framework 6 for faster and reliable way to process queries on database.  • Having strong experience with JavaScript, jQuery, Ajax toolkit and Ajax based web applications, WSDL, UDDI, HTML5, CSS3, WCF, XML, XML Schema, JSON, XSLT and Web-Services using SOAP.  • Worked on ADO.NET Entity Framework to associate with database for CRUD operations. Implemented on LINQ to Entities, Lambda Expressions, and Object-Oriented Design Patterns.  • Solid knowledge in analysis, coding, testing and implementation of projects using state of art technologies like TypeSript, ReactJS, NodeJS, PHP, MySQL, MVC php frameworks  • Familiar with new C# 6/7 features such as Generics, Iterators, Lambda expressions, Anonymous methods, Partial classes, Named arguments and optional arguments, Extension methods.  • Demonstrated proficiency in development using Microsoft.NET technologies like WCF, LINQ, ASP.Net 4.5, ASP.NET MVC 5.0/5.2, C#(6/7), and AJAX Extensions, jQuery with MS SQL Server (SQL 2012/ 2016) and Oracle 10g/11g as database  • Experienced in Using Various Version Controlling Team Foundation Server (TFS), Visual Source Safe (VSS), GIT, SVN.  • Experience in using Language-Integrated Query (LINQ) query and retrieve data from different data sources (LINQ to Objects, LINQ to XML, and LINQ to SQL).  • Possess extensive experience working with huge datasets, which includes Transactional and Dimensional database design, Stored Procedures, Database Structures, Data Analysis, Manageability, Performance tuning, apply enhancements, Designing Tables, Views, Triggers, Cursors, Indexes, Transporting and loading big datasets, Splunk other bigdata tool.  • Extensive experience in SQL Server DBMS, Oracle, SQL, PL/SQL, T-SQL, DB2, Views, Store Procedures, MS Access, Windows, Mac OS, Linux, UNIX (Sun Solaris).  • Expertise in Agile development methodologies, Industry standards and best programming practices, like SDLC, Test Driven Development (TDD), SCRUM, JIRA, GIT, TFS, IIS, Stash, Continuous Build and Dependency Injection.  • Experience in Testing tools Load runner, win runner, Manual testing using Application performance testing, Bug tracking, load testing and Cross browser.  • Hands-on technology leader and architect with up-to-date technologies and enjoys building large scale & high-performance systems. Provide leadership vision enterprise-wise via decisive and insightful executive leadership, guiding daily operations and policy implementation through strategic thinking and decision-making. Ability to drive and deliver prioritized programs as well as tactically important technology initiatives. Work Experience Developer LNI - Olympia, WA January 2019 to Present of web API, web services, web applications in .Net Core, Angular 4/6, Bootstrap (I am working in the IT Team that give support of LNI state department, we are developing applications as web services, web APIs, web applications using dependency injection and given support of his users, this team was 9 members, Manager, Team Lead, SCRUM Master and six developers    Responsibilities:  • Scrum meetings, stand up meetings to review the project, see the past day work, and the work that will to do on the current day using JIRAs  • Participate with meetings with the business users to start to work on some tasks  • Responsible for designing and development software systems using various tools of Microsoft technologies and plug-ins and ensure compliance to all architecture requirements  • Provides the critical link between people, processes, and technologies that make a security program work.  • Responsible for designing new database schema with generic data model designed to scale.  • Once we get the requires from business user, I analyses the task and design the application  • Coding the applications by the BackEnd par using C# Web APIs, SQL Server, PL/SQL, MySQL Server, Sybase.  • Coding multithreading functions for WebApis in .Net core  • Add apps for windows Azure, SQL Server and web sites  • Deploy projects in Windows Azure  • Coding the UI part using HTML5, Angular, SASS, Bootstrap, CSS3, and JavaScript.  • Crete a unit testing to review the code.  • Designed and implemented several support tools using ASP.NET MVC, Web API, and JavaScript.  • Defined request-response message system, typically expressed in JSON or XML, which is exposed via the web - most commonly by means of an HTTP-based web server using server-side web API.  • Deploy the application on Develop server for testing before deploying on Integration server  • Set meetings to get feedback from the business user to deploy on integration servers  • Developed Applications with Software development life-cycle (SDLC) followed of Agile/Scrum methodologies  • Created the dictionary object and converted the same to form collection in order to pass into action methods of Web API using Http Content; to pass large data from front end to Web Api.  • Implemented UI using MVC, HTML, XML, CSS, JavaScript, AngularJS, AJAX and Web Form Controls to create responsive web pages, developed Master Pages.  • Testing Web API response by sending required parameters through header using an ARC Tool.  • Consumed different ASP.Net Web API's to retrieve customers' information and other application related information.  • Once the Application is deployed on integration servers set meetings with the business user to get the approvals and deploy on Production server  • Assisting to sprint meetings to see the next projects or JIRAS to next two weeks  • Give maintenance and review the correct functionality of the applications on production and Integrations servers.    Environment: Visual Studio.Net, SQL Server, MySQL, C#, Web APIs, .Net MVC, Angular 6, CSS3, Bootstrap, HTML5, IIS, Sybase, Windows Server, Linux, SCRUM, SDLC, GIT, TFS, JIRA, Stash. Developer Northern Trust November 2016 to December 2018 of web API, web services, web applications, .Net Framework 4.5/6 and other project in .NET Core (I worked in a team that give support of other departments, we are developing applications as web services, web APIs, web applications using dependency injection ReacJS and Angular and given support of his users, this team was six members, Manager, Team Lead, SCRUM Master and three developers.    Responsibilities:  • Scrum meetings, stand up meetings to review the project, see the past day work, and the work that will to do on the current day using JIRAs  • Participate with meetings with the business users to start to work on some tasks  • Responsible for designing and development software systems using various tools of Microsoft technologies and plug-ins and ensure compliance to all architecture requirements  • Provides the critical link between people, processes, and technologies that make a security program work.  • Responsible for designing new database schema with generic data model designed to scale.  • Once we get the requires from business user, I analyses the task and design the application  • Coding the applications by the BackEnd par using C# Web APIs, SQL Server, PL/SQL, MySQL Server, Sybase.  • Coding the UI part using HTML5, AngularJS, Angular 2-4, ReacJs, Bootstrap, CSS3, and JavaScript.  • Building projects to transitions from web forms asp .Net to ReacJs  • Crete a unit testing to review the code.  • Release services to AWS  • Designed and implemented a number of support tools using ASP.NET MVC, Web API, and ReacJS.  • Defined request-response message system, typically expressed in JSON or XML, which is exposed via the web - most commonly by means of an HTTP-based web server using server-side web API.  • Deploy the application on Develop server for testing before deploy on Integration server  • Set meetings to get feedback from the business user to deploy on integration servers  • Developed Applications with Software development life-cycle (SDLC) followed of Agile/Scrum methodologies  • Created the dictionary object and converted the same to form collection in order to pass into action methods of Web API using Http Content; to pass large data from front end to Web Api.  • Implemented UI using MVC, HTML, XML, CSS, JavaScript, AngularJS, AJAX and Web Form Controls to create responsive web pages, developed Master Pages.  • Testing Web API response by sending required parameters through header using an ARC Tool.  • Consumed different ASP.Net Web API's to retrieve customers' information and other application related information.  • Coding multithreading Applications for consuming web APIs  • Once the Application is deployed on integration servers set meetings with the business user to get the approvals and deploy on Production server  • Assisting to sprint meetings to see the next projects or JIRAS to next two weeks  • Give maintenance and review the correct functionality of the applications on production and Integrations servers.    Environment: Visual Studio.Net, SQL Server, MySQL, C#, Web APIs, .Net MVC, AngularJs, CSS3, Bootstrap, HTML5, IIS, Sybase, Windows Server, Linux, SCRUM, SDLC, GIT, TFS, JIRA, Stash. Splunk Developer (C#.Net) Morgan Stanley May 2014 to November 2016 Splunk is a big data tool I was developed websites and dashboards to display many variants of information. (This was a team of developers of many places as India, New York, Canada and Mexico, the Mexico team was composed by 12 developers, we worked on SDLC, SCRUM, JIRA methodology, we develop some dashboards, web sites and web services for the team)    Responsibilities:  • Scrum meetings, stand up meetings to review the project, see the past day work, and the work that will to do on the current day using JIRAs  • Participate with meetings with the business users to start to work on some tasks  • Once we get the requires from business user, I analyses the task and design the application  • Coding the applications by the BackEnd par using C# Web APIs, SQL Server, MySQL Server, Sybase.  • Coding small scripts in Python, for Splunk  • Coding the UI part using HTML5, AngularJS, Bootstrap, CSS3, and JavaScript.  • Crete a unit testing to review the code  • Set meetings to get feedback from the business user to deploy on integration servers  • Once the Application is deployed on integration servers set meetings with the business user to get the approvals and deploy on Production server  • Involved in development of Web Forms, Classes using C#.NET that incorporates both N-tier architecture and database connectivity.  • Worked on creating Restful Services using Web API and C# to provide services to HTTP requests.  • Developed user interface (Web Forms) for the modules using ASP.NET server controls, Validation controls, HTML for the front end ordering system, where business logic was implemented using .Net.  • Used HTML5, Cascading Style Sheets (CSS3), Bootstrap and Angular to develop and implement a user-friendly UI design for the presentation layer.  • Work with DevOps Team for continues integration and continues testing using Jenkins CI/CD,  • Created Typescript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component-based architecture provided by AngularJS.  • Give Support and training to the users.  • Scrum meetings, review for JIRAs assigned, analysis, develop, testing, integration to IIS or installation, training to users, support to applications and users.    Environment: Visual Studio .Net, Web API, Splunk 6.x, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, AngularJS, Bootstrap, Python, .Net, C#, SQL Server 2012, MongoDB. Lead Software Engineer January 2011 to May 2014 Developed a big data base and a variety of web application as web register, webcast, data base administrator. (This office was built for given support for many areas of technology, as Web sites, online registration, contact data bases and business intelligence. We were on a team of five members, we develop many applications using many technologies mainly .NET)    Responsibilities:  • Work as a technical lead and estimate software development cost and schedule analyze and formulate design specifications and requirements to be assigned to my teammates. Provided technical leadership to the coworkers and other developers.  • Participate with meetings with the business users to start to work on some tasks  • Reviewer of analysis, design and implementation of application using ASP.Net, MVC3 Architectural Design Pattern.  • Involved in Deployment and Troubleshooting issues in the application during Go Live.  • Involved in Database designs, Creating indexes, stored procedures, views, XML Schemas  • Develop WPF applications for work with web services and with data bases.  • Developing the application using MVC, Entity Data Model and RESTful and WCF services.  • Developed Web pages using Asp.Net MCV, JSON, Html5 and Telerik controls.  • Using AJAX, JavaScript, and jQuery for web page development and Frontend validation.  • Implemented MVC Filters on Authentication, Authorization and others.  • Responsible for developing REST API and SOAP Web Services for back layer to be consumed by Web Applications.  • Once we get the requirement from business user, analyses the task and design the application.  • Coding the applications by the BackEnd par using C# Web APIs, SQL Server, MySQL Server, PHP, Cakephp, MySQL.  • Coding the UI part using HTML5, AngularJS, Bootstrap, CSS3, and JavaScript.  • Crete a unit testing to review the code  • Deploy the application for testing  • Development & design of Holders, Holdings, Agent Maintenance, Audit Trail, Commission Calculation web pages in VB.NET AND ASP.NET.  • Worked on re-designing and adding functionality to Trade Approval, Trade Entry & Review pages using nested Master Pages.  • Extensively worked on developing stored procedures, views, functions, SSRS in SQL 2005.  • Worked extensively with farpoint, datasets and muiti-views in the web pages.  • Development of typed datasets and business classes for the web service and web site.  • Provided maintenance and review the correct functionality of the applications on production and Integrations servers.    Environment: Visual Studio 2008-2012 WPF, PHP, .Net C #, ASP.NET, Cakephp, MySQL, HTM5, JavaScript, jQuery, MVC, SQL Server 2008-2012, WCF, Web services, Cristal Reports and SQL Reporting services. POS Software Developer (C#.Net) IT Retail, Inc August 2008 to July 2010 Development of Backend of Retail professional software. This is a point of sale software, also, develop of Retail Intelligence. (IT Retail, is a IT point of sale enterprise, I was develop de back end for Retail professional software, also we develop some web sites, business intelligence and web services for the enterprise)    Responsibilities:  • Maintenance of the retail application  • Participate with meetings with the business users to start to work on some tasks  • Coding the applications by the VB.6.0, SQL Server, Cristal Reports, C#, PHP, JavaScript, jQuery.  • Crete a unit testing to review the code  • Deploy the application for testing  • Create the proposal solution of the website.  • Create the server structure.  • Creating the solution for the managing site in PHP and MySQL  • Creating the Principal site in ASP and SQL  • Coaching the developers and helping to improve their skills.  • Taking the final requirements from the investors.  • Graphic design.  • Designed and developed the business classes.  • Developed GUI and business logic.  • Involved in the design and development of user controls.  • Designed the database tables to store data and restrict the access to different pages based on the user role.  • Used SQL for retrieving, updating and storing the data.  • Exclusive use of DataGrid control in the list pages of the project.  • Development and maintenance of DTS packages, SSIS, SSRS, SQL jobs, stored procedures and functions in SQL 2000 and SQL 2005.  • Developed a tool for the provisioning team to check the status of the order using MySQL.    Environment: VB.6.0, SQL Server, Cristal Reports, C#, PHP, JavaScript, jQuery. Education Bachelor's in Computer sciences University of Technology in the metropolitan area 2002 to 2005 Skills .net, Microsoft visual studio, Microsoft visual studio .net, Microsoft visual studio .net 2010, Visual studio Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information Skill Set:    Programming Language C, C++, C#, VB.Net, Visual Basic 6.0, PHP, MySQL, T-SQL, PL/SQL, JavaScript, TypeScript, Powershell  Technologies ASP.Net, Classic ASP, VBScript, LINQ , MVC, WCF, SharePoint  Web Technologies  ASP.NET(4.6/4.5/4.0), ASP.NET MVC, HTML, HTML5, CSS, WCF, Bootstrap, JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS, Angular 2/4/6/7, ReactJS, NodeJS, SASS AJAX, VB Script, Web Services, ASP.NET, ADO.NET, Entity Framework, Windows Form, LINQ, IIS    Mobile Technologies Reac Native and Xamarin  XML Technologies XML, XSLT, XAML, DOM, DTD, Schema  Database SQL Server 2000/2005/2008/2012/2014, SSRS, SSIS, Oracle 11g, MongoDB, DB2  Web Services SOAP, WSDL, UDDI, RESTful, Queue Services(Kafka , MSMQ)  Source Control Visual Source Safe (VSS), Team Foundation Server, SVN, GIT  Web Server IIS, Apache  Cloud Service Microsoft Azure, Amazon web services  Development Tools  Crystal Reports, Microsoft-Office, Microsoft Visio, Visual Studio, Visual Studio Code, Microsoft Visual Studio .NET 2010/2012/2015/2017, Microsoft Expression Blend, Docker, Jenkins    Methodology SDLC, SCRUM, JIRA, GIT, TFS, IIS, Stash  Testing Unit Testing, Load Testing, Integration Testing, Functional Testing  Others Utilities  BMC Remedy OPAS, JIRA, SSMS, SSIS, Power shell, VISIO, MS office, Polymon, Splunk, BigDSterling Integrator MFT, MS BizTalk, Teamsite, Open Deploy, TeamCity, Octopus, MS Sharepoint, Filenet Panagon, Windows server 2008 R2, Windows server 2012, IIS, Nant, gacutil, Ants profilter, FxCop, Resharper0 (8.1), Style Cop, Nugget packages, Splunk, Dynatrace, VS performance Analyzer, JIRA, Operating System (LINUX/UNIX)    Architectures/Design Patterns Dependency Injection, Abstract factory, Singleton, Object pool, MVC, MVV