BIS Computer BIS Computer SOFTWARE ENGINEER/ DEVELOPER Fallbrook, CA To secure a position in helping a great company with databases, database applications, and other integrated systems. My skills extend deep into the realms of systems engineering, SOA, technical design, application development, documentation, testing, training, deployment, and ongoing support. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience BIS Computer Lead/Senior Oracle Engineer/Developer/Architect - La Crescenta, CA November 2018 to Present Senior Oracle Developer: Create and document new integrated designs for custom workflow software. ERD modelling, prototyping, initial and secondary requirements planning, test planning.    Designer/Architect: Created models and designs for product proposals. Organized and presented estimates of resources. Created initialized schemas for new products. Implemented Apex themes. Implemented rudimentary coding standards. Build internal processes and systems to handle a scale-able daily workload along with new-development.    Lead for offshore development team: Responsible for on-boarding, training, work assignments, code reviews, and all other tactical-level management tasks. Assist with research, work organization, and daily planning. SOFTWARE ENGINEER/ DEVELOPER GENERAL ATOMICS (GA) August 1999 to November 2018 • Senior software engineer. Full SDLC responsibility.  • Two decades with one single company.  • Part of the initial ITS group prior to the "9/11" related growth spurt at General Atomics. I was present and consulted for almost every initiative related to software scalability and growth over the course of my 20 years of employment. I have supported GA from a company of 200, to a giant international corporation of over 12,000 employees worldwide.  • Technologies: Oracle v8-v12.1 database and objects (tables, views, functions, triggers, procedures, packages, ETL scripting, tuning, optimization, extremely large data sets, partitions, Oracle PL/SQL and SQL), MS Server, Oracle APEX v2.4-v19.1, Oracle forms and reports, ANSI SQL, MS SQL, Sharepoint, GIT, WorkPlace, Autotime, WDS/MTO, SOAP, XML, Unix/Linux, LDAP and Active Directory, ODBC, Mii, SAP SOA, ABAP, BPEL, K2 workflows and forms, Service-Now, and many, many others. Education MASTERS in INFORMATION MANAGEMENT COLEMAN UNIVERSITY 2002 Skills DATABASE (10+ years), ORACLE (10+ years), SAP (10+ years), ETL (10+ years), SDLC (10+ years) Additional Information Skills and Accomplishments  • Expert skill at full-cycle SDLC support for user interfaces and web-based apps. These vary is scope from very small to enterprise-critical. My lifecycle support experience stretches from user-conceptualization to implementation and after-market support.  • Cost Estimation System. Created, designed, and built a custom application system that does all pricing estimates for government and foreign aircraft system contracts. This uses BOM/WBS build-outs and a set of rules to extract historic work orders and purchase orders for detailed government contracts pricing creation and support. This system currently handles over $10 Billion in concurrent and historical contracts and pricing estimates, most of them subject to constant DCAA and DCMA audit.  • Asset Management System: Technical, design, and programming lead on the invention and implementation of a custom configuration management system for all UAV and GCS assets in the field. This system maintains point-in-time configurations of all aircraft and ground control stations. It allows configuration change by field personnel, tracks such changes by date and user, and interfaces with both SAP MRO and custom MRO systems.  • Custom MRO: Technical, design, and programming lead for the creation of databases and apps that manage Maintenance, Repair, and Overhaul schedules for all aircraft and ground-control stations. These systems tracks all scheduled aircraft maintenance tasks for history and future planning. The systems are auditable by DCMA.  • SOA. Created and built an inter-system catalog for web-services and other SOA-type requirements or objects. Worked with all available technologies to integrate data and operations. Used K2 and Oracle Workflows to integrate disparate functions across the landscape. Leveraged SOAP web services, where possible, and other technologies for legacy systems.  • Finance and Accounting Support: Designed and implemented a custom warehouse set of database objects and screens that allows Finance and Accounting to seamlessly cross the boundary between legacy-ERP and current-ERP in support of continuous government audit requests and requirements.  • Mobile apps. Worked on projects for internal web-based applications. Mobilized timecards and other enterprise functions for use on handheld devices. Created standards for cross-platform app design to simplify maintenance and documentation.  • SAP. Worked on all aspects of a full ERP system replacement implementation. Step include initial conceptualization, user-requirements documentation, staffing for change, warehousing of current ERP data, ETL of critical business data, Process decisions, accounting and reporting changes, business process change documentation and change-management.  • Business Processes. Excellent knowledge of manufacturing, accounting, product engineering, BOMs, WBS, procurement, labor and payroll, HR, sales and compensation, and others.  • Audit and Compliance. Strong understanding of government audit requirements and practices for DCAA, DCMA, FAR, DFAR, IRS and others. Worked within the US government guidelines create reports and processes that have stood up to the test of a US Government Audit for many years.