Web Developer (HCL) Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> (HCL) Web Developer (HCL) - T-MOBILE Bellevue, WA • Erudite Software Engineer with 8+ years of experience in Front-End Development. Advanced programming skills in JavaScript including jQuery and JS MVC Frameworks Angular.js, Backbone.js, Ember.js, and Node.js. Experienced in working with all development methodologies including Waterfall and Agile. Finally, demonstrates effective communication with technical and non-technical colleagues.  • Experience in working with ES6 features, web pack with ES5, ReactJS.  • Experienced in working with MVC frameworks like Angular JS, React JS.  • Strong knowledge of the Systems Development Life Cycle (SDLC) models such as Waterfall and Agile Development Methodologies.  • Proficient in ES6, JSX and TypeScript along with Babel for developing single page web applications in React and Angular  • Talented communicator with exceptional writing, presentation, and interpersonal skills; can work effectively with technical and non-technical colleagues.  • Ability to assess client needs and requirements with strong problem solving skills.  • Work well as a team player or an individual contributor.  • Proficient in version control tools such as GIT-Hub, SVN, CVS  • Up to date knowledge with the latest industry trends in UI design and usability.    TECHNOLOGY SUMMARY  Graphics Editors Adobe Photo Shop CS3, Adobe Illustrator CS3  Web Technologies  HTML 5, DHTML, CSS 3, JavaScript, DOM XML, XHTML, JSP, AJAX, JQUERY, Bootstrap, Angular.js, Angular2/4/5/6, Backbone.js, Ember.js, React.js, Node.js, ATG    IDE /Tools Web-Storm, Sublime, Brackets, Eclipse IDE, Notepad++, Adobe Dreamweaver, Visual Studio Code  Database MS Access, SQL SERVER  Web Servers HTTP web server, Apache, Restful  Web Services REST, JSON  Operating System Win10, Win7, MAC OS X Work Experience Web Developer (HCL) T-MOBILE November 2018 to Present • Working in Agile Environment and using Project Management tool like RALLY.  • Involved in designing and developing the web pages using HTML 5, CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap, SASS, LESS, React.js and Node.js.  • Designed and Developed Web pages using Angular6.  • Used Axios to send async $http reques to Rest end point in ReactJS.  • Worked on ReactJS Virtual Dom and React views, rendering using components which contains additional components called custom HTML tags.  • Involved to implement various screens for the front end using React.js and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager) and Redux.js library.  • Worked in using ReactJS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations.  • Developed the React container and presentational components (as Stateless and Functional components when applicable).  • Implemented stable React components and stand-alone functions to be added to any future pages.  • Responsible for React UI and architecture. Building components library, including Tree, Slide-View and Table Grid.  • Used material UI.  • Involved in complete SDLC - Requirement Analysis, Development, System and Integration Testing.  • Handled cross browser/platform compatibility issues (IE, Firefox, and Safari) on both Windows.  • Used Jasmine to write unit tests for Angular code.  • Performed Unit testing on ReactJS applications using JEST.  • Worked closely with business analysts in understanding the technical requirements of each project and prepared use cases for different features and designs.  • Involved in agile process, two week sprints, and daily stand-up call to discuss the development of the application to deliver on-time.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, ReactJS, Angular 6, WebStorm, Jira, Source tree, JSON. Web Developer AT&T - Richardson, TX January 2018 to October 2018 • Working in Agile Environment and using Project Management tool like JIRA.  • Designed and Developed Web pages using Angular.  • Used $http in Angularjs for consuming RESTful web services.  • Worked on AEM content management to create web pages.  • Used Oracle ATG library mainly droplet functionality.  • Designed banner by using HTML5, CSS3 and java script.  • Implemented Custom Directives and Structural Directives and developed code on Typescript and ES6 to implement.  • Used TypeScript in creating Angular2/4 applications for asynchronous observer patterns  • Update the conent by using AEM.  • Fix front end related bugs that were identified in QA, beta and production environments.  • Attend wire frame review, design and html code walkthrough meetings  • Participate and provide input in code optimization and performance related discussions.  • Handled all aspects of the web applications including maintaining, testing, debugging and deploying.  • Otimize application for maximum speed and scalability.  • Assure that all user input is validated before submitting to back-end.  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, Angular2/4/5, ATG, Java Beans, WebStorm, Source tree, JSON. Web Developer T-MOBILE - Bothell, WA January 2017 to December 2017 • Provide in Go-Live Support by Validate pre-production Environment with Go-Live Support  • Categorize, track and triage new and existing defects for recommendation for future releases.  • Act as the lead in root cause analysis work for complex software and data issues.  • Triage critical issues by modifying the configurations, analyzing server files, server logs, and test data.  • Worked on AEM content management to create web pages.  • Extensively used Adobe CRX, CRXDE to check the properties like mezzo.billing.wsdlurl.  • Expert in Authoring and publishing the Adobe CQ applications and performed cross-browsing testing.  • Using GIT to create pull request and master code merging.  • Provide daily defect status reports in advance of Defect Management calls.  • Used publish and author instances for the configuration changes.  • Triage and enhance UI.  • Built custom Angular 2 Directives and Services for single-page web application. Analyzed the defects in a structured manner to ensure focus on key priority issues.  • SOAPUI is being used to test the external web application response.  • Using Bit-bucket to commit and merge the code.  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, Angular2, WebStorm, Source tree, JSON. Putty, Adobe CQ5. Software Development Engineer CLASSMATES.COM - Seattle, WA September 2016 to December 2016 • Built emailing module using freemarker template engine to send emails.  • Provided support while transferring knowledge and fixing Defects for UAT.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using JSON and XML.  • Developed and delivered the daily changes on these applications.  • Participated in code reviews.  • Participated in Agile development methodology - including daily stand-up meetings.  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, WebStorm, Source tree, JSON. Software Development Engineer T-MOBILE - Bellevue, WA March 2016 to August 2016 • Responsible for developing the UI pages using HTML5, CSS3, Angular.js, JSON, and AJAX.  • Created Angular.js controllers and services and used Angular.js filters for filter functionality in search box and integrator functionalities.  • Extensively worked on form validations and form formatting. Created custom directives for form input validations.  • Involved in writing application-level code to interact with APIs and Web Services using JSON and XML.  • Extensively used CSS and Bootstrap for styling HTML elements.  • Responsible for checking cross browser compatibility - including Safari, Internet explorer, Firefox and Google Chrome.  • Worked closely with business analysts in understanding the technical requirements of each project and prepared use cases for different features and designs.  • Involved in agile process, two week sprints, and daily scrums to discuss the development of the application to deliver on-time.  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, Angular.js, WebStorm, Source tree, JSON, Jasmine (Unit Test). Software Development Engineer CLASSMATES.COM - Seattle, WA August 2015 to February 2016 • Built applications using HTML5, CSS3, Ember.js, and Node.js  • Involved in the full life cycle of the software design process including requirements definition, prototyping, proof-of-concept, design, interface implementation, unit testing, and maintenance.  • Developed and delivered daily changes on applications.  • Worked closely with web and mobile designers and translate their designs into websites, apps, HTML emails, and interactive experiences  • Used the Node.js, Ember.js, and MVC Frameworks in the development of the web applications.  • Provided time estimates for deliverables  • Designed Responsive Web pages using media queries and Twitter Bootstrap.  • Managing workload in line with wider business expectations  • Used tools including Jira, Source Tree, Web-Storm, Grunt, Bower, LESS/SASS and multiple browser testing.  • Worked Cross Browser Applications items in IE8, IE9, IE10, IE 11, Firefox, Chrome, Safari, Tablets, and Mobile responsive.  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Ember.js, Node.js, WebStorm, Source tree, JSON, MS Office, AJAX. Software Development Engineer T-MOBILE - Atlanta, GA April 2012 to July 2015 • Built applications using .NET, HTML, CSS, and Angular.js  • Developed and delivered daily changes on applications  • Worked closely with web and mobile designers and translated their designs into websites, apps, HTML emails, and interactive experiences  • Worked with the back end developers to help integrate HTML5 into the CMS system.  • Tested, debugged, and built code that works across multiple browsers and digital platforms  • Worked on creating functionalities for developed web pages using Angular.js and jQuery.  • Provided estimates to deliver work that is appropriate and deliverable.  • Provided expertise in HTML, JavaScript, CSS3, and jQuery.  • Took responsibility for the production of an application CR throughout the programming process, including coding, unit testing and integration testing and subsequent phases of the development life cycle.  • Designed Responsive Web pages using media queries and Twitter Bootstrap.  • Technical authoring, including system documentation and specification  • Provided 3rd line application support for systems  • Delivered tight deadlines, emergency fast track changes, and deployments.  • Managed workload in line with wider business expectations  • Used tools like Jira, AccuRev, Site Refresh, WebStorm, Grunt, Bower, LESS/SASS and multiple browser testing.  • Executed test cases in Development /UAT environments.  Environment: HTML, CSS3, HTML5, XML, JavaScript, Backbone.js, Angular.js, jQuery, JSP, XML, JSON, MS Office, AJAX, RWD. Software Development Engineer DIRECTV - LOS ANGELES, (EL SEGUNDO) - Los Angeles, CA February 2010 to March 2012 • Managed scope discussions with Business Analysts and business users to identify technical requirements.  • Responsible for the design of various application screens right from conceptualization stage to implementation and maintenance.  • Developed carousel designs, page layouts, jQuery effects, navigation bars, and landing page concepts to the meet the needs of business requirements.  • Developed presentation layer using HTML and CSS according to W3C standards and guidelines.  • Worked with Business System analysts to ensure correct build of UI modules.  • Wrote JQUERY functions while implementing various UI screens across the whole web application.  • Ensured cross browser compatibility by writing CSS for specific browsers. Also, tested the compatibility for all browsers including IE, Firefox, Chrome and Safari.  • Interacted with the Java Controllers (JSP) via jQuery, AJAX, and JSON to write/read data from backend systems.  • Wrote application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON, XML, and JavaScript.  • Designed web applications using CSS as per W3C standards.  • Worked closely with SQA team in fixing UI-related bugs.  Environment: HTML, HTML 5, XHTML, CSS, jQuery, JavaScript, Adobe Photoshop CS4, Adobe Dreamweaver CS4, Wireframes and Mockups, Java JSP, MS Visio, Oracle 10g Software Development Engineer MCKESSON - San Francisco, CA January 2009 to December 2009 • Interacted with Business Analysts to understand project scope and technical requirements.  • During the iterative design process, upon client approval, Built out of all assets - including buttons, products shots, UI components  • Created and optimized graphic prototype websites and applications interfaces using HTML and CSS.  • Implemented and designed user interface for web based customer application.  • Involved in development and finalization of initial design of the application and worked with content managers, copywriters and designers to resolve the issues.  • Designed business applications using web technologies like HTML, DHTML, XHTML, and CSS based on the W3C standards.  • Wrote application level code to interact with the backend databases (Oracle) using JSP and AJAX.  • Designed and implemented a dynamic image rendering web service which is consumed by JSP, JavaScript and AJAX.  • Developed data formatted web applications and deploy the script using client side scripting using JavaScript.  • Worked on Cross-Browser compatibility and fixed the bugs for several browsers.  • Migrated content from existing website to a new, database driven website; utilized in house Content Management System.  • Created cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant CSS-based page layouts.  Environment: Adobe Photoshop CS4, Dream weaver CS4, HTML, JQuery, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, XSL, XSLT, JSP (Java) Education Bachelors of Computer Science in BCS Newport Institute of Communications & Economics