Lead developer Lead <span class="hl">developer</span> Lead developer New York, NY An experienced IT professional in Software Analysis, Design, Development, Maintenance, Migration and Support of Client/Server, Web/Windows applications using Visual Studio.NET2012/2008/2005/2003 (Visual Basic.NET, Visual C#, ASP.NET), SQL-Server 2012/2008/2005/2000.    • Demonstrated expertise in complete SDLC, and software development methodology and practices using different approaches like Prototype, Water Fall Model.  • Experience in creating, consuming and deploying XML Web Services using ASP.NET, C#.  • Excellent skills in web technologies like Java Script, VBScript, CSS, HTML and XML.  • Expert level on .NET Framework (V 4.0/3.5/2.0/1.1) and experience in Entity Framework.  • Worked extensively in developing Web/Windows based applications using Technologies like ASP.NET, C#, ADO.NET, ASP, VB.Net, SQL Server, Web Services.  • Good experience with data access methods like ADO.NET.  • Expertise in SQL Server Management Studio, SQL Query Analyzer.  • Expertise in Database Design and Programming (Stored Procedures, Functions, Triggers, Views) using SQL Server 2012/2008/2005/2000.  • Extensive use of Object Oriented Programming (OOPS).  • Hands-on experience in all stages of project development including requirements analysis, design, coding, testing and support. Good at problem analysis/debugging and exposure of full life cycle of the project.  • Good Experience of Release management processes and planning.  • Experience of working with incident management and change management tools like Remedy and Service Now.  • Good communications skills and experience in interacting with various project stakeholders including application owners, business managers, key stakeholders for requirements gathering, release and resource planning.  • Strong ability to perform at high expectation level to meet deadlines, multitasking and adaptable to ever changing priorities.  • Experience in managing the small team of 2-3 developers.  • Last worked as Lead developer with HCL Technologies. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Lead developer American Express - New York, NY March 2014 to July 2016 Compliance & Ethics Risk Assessment System (CERAS) is Systematic way to map assessment points to risk pillar data in preparation for risk assessment. Inherent Risk, Quality Risk Management, Residual Risk performed by LOBCOS and CRACOES in CERAS for US State, Fed and International. Annual compliance plan shared with the Federal Regulators is based on the data from CERAS. Allowing AMEX to complete compliance risk assessment and submitting the report to federal auditors.  Responsibilities:  • Participated in sprint planning, estimates and requirement gathering.  • Working as a Lead to Build, Unit test and deliver the user stories.  • Guide business team on defining and orchestrating business processes  • Educate client team on best practices and design approaches of application  • Responsible for end to end delivery of the project.  • Involved with lead system architects in creating high level class structure, class hierarchy, work flows and high level design document.  • Created dynamic layouts in Section rule, Data pages and Decision Tables.  • Conduct Internal as well as External reviews with PEGA COE and implement feedbacks.  • Coordinated with release build team regarding the multiple release of the project.  • Daily stand ups for the updates to Scrum master and Product owner and work to mitigate project impediments.  • Provide User story Demo in Playback and Show & Tell sessions to Business and Product owners and work on the feedbacks.  • Developed Validation Rules and Integration rules pertained to Rule-Connect- and Rule-Service.  • Implemented various PRPC components like Decision tables, Declarative expressions, Constraints, and Indexes etc.  • Used the TRACER to examine the rules and to minimize the execution time Performance test of all activities  • Used RDB-List, RDB-Open, and RDB-Save depending on the business rules in the project.  • End to end Integration testing of the application.  • Worked on Data Transforms, Report Definitions, and data pages.  • Created Decision Rules and Declarative Expressions as per the requirements.  • Involved in preparing technical design document.  • Used Connect SOAP rule to fetch the web services.  • Worked on Activities and also experience in OOTB concept.  Environment: PRPC 7.1.7, HTML, XML, SOAP, JavaScript, Oracle 12c, Java, CSS, Java Script Lead developer Voya Financial - West Chester, PA January 2012 to February 2014 Voya Financial (Formerly ING) is one of the leading financial services company in North America providing retirement, investment management and insurance related services to help make their customers a secure financial future. The current project mainly involved in the migration of data by extracting data from different sources (Excel, Oracle, Flat file, CSV, Access, Sybase) and loading it into required data bases by means of designing efficient SSIS packages. The project also involved in designing new GUI interfaces and the maintenance of existing C#.NET application. The project also involved in production server activities for database development and monitor periodic Jobs    Responsibilities:  • Understanding the existing functionality of the RBC systems  • Lead large scale projects that utilize online & offline data, structured & unstructured data, to build customer centric models and optimization tools  • Analyze data flow, business processes/technical interfaces being impacted by updated systems.  • Developed scripts for Package execution to do the validations as per the requirements  • Used Collections to Extract and test and deploy code in the deployment databases.  • Responsible for rewriting queries to improve the performance of the EDI applications.  • Wrote Shell / Unix Scripts for batch processing.  • Helped to build out advanced analytics product/offerings to drive broader adoption and growth of capability  • Reviewed complex sub queries using outer joins and SQL operators. Used database links, views to optimize query execution.  • Serve as advisor to internal and external clients  • Writing stored procedures, Functions and Packages to implement business rules using SQL.  • Partner with marketing, finance and field ops teams in developing & executing real-time targeting & optimization platforms  • Worked with Concurrent Version Control (CVS) Systems for managing the source code for the project.  • Customized existing database tables/views for designing the CM database collections using primary keys and foreign keys and establishing relationship between the Tables.  • Scheduled the jobs in Tivoli scheduler in the production environments.  • Mentor and train junior team members in advanced analytics techniques  • Analyzing and gathering user requirements to fine tune the deployment  • Preparing the data in the EDI, CSV, XML formats  • Responsible for extensive data validations, feeding of live data and user acceptance for each module.  • Written SQL based scripts during implementation at the client's site and trained the end users.  • Extensive Use of Unix Commands to execute/compile the stored procedures from the Unix shell.  • Review and development of Interfaces to Integrate modules.  • Also Involved in Resolving the Tickets in Service Center depending on the priority of the tickets.  • Worked as Primary on the roles of the project support.  • Designed and extensively worked on project documentation.  • Involved in Preparing Detailed technical documents.  • Collaborated on active discussions on release testing, unit testing, performance and quality with cross- functional Agile teams  • Carry out duties with a high degree of data security in the handling of data, including complying with RBC policies and procedures for data encryption and data transfer.  • Reported progress status and statistics reports to Senior Management  Environment: UNIX, SQL Server, Teradata, Tivoli scheduler, EDI, CMDB, SQL scripts 2008, T-SQL, TFS 2010, MS Entreprise Library, Windows 2003. Software Engineer HCL Technologies August 2010 to December 2011 This application is used for HCL employee; system manages the Leave records of employees. There are various modules of this system like employee, managers and human resource department. Through the employee module users are provided the interface to apply for leaves and view there leave status, leave history and leave balance. Approval module provides the interface to reporting managers for approving or rejecting the leaves.HR module is used by human resource department to view and manage employee's leaves records and reports for various purposes. I was involved in Requirement gathering, Software Design Document, Unit Test cases, Coding and unit testing to till Release.    Responsibilities:  • Responsible for understanding and gathering the Business requirements for new functionalities of application.  • Responsible for new DB design in SQL Server and creating the various Stored Procedures, Triggers used in application to perform the Data retrieval from multiple tables in SQL Server 2005.  • Created master page and CSS files to maintain consistent look and feel across the website.  • Configuration management by using VSS for tracking code changes and maintaining releases.  • Providing support for day to day production support issues.  • Responsible for interacting with business users and providing the technical solution for various issue and queries.  • Coordinating with client IT manager and other project stake holders for various project deliveries and status reporting.  Environment: ASP.NET, CSS, SQL Server 2005, ADO.NET, .Net Framework 2.0, Visual studio 2005, JavaScript. Software Engineer HCL Technologies December 2008 to July 2010 Employee Service Portal is a combination of multiple modules like Smart survey where Managers More than level 3 category can give the feedback and then report would be available to senior management for the analysis through various graphical reports and second Module is alarm system if Employee forget to bring card, forget to punch the card or on tour then he /she can select the reason from the dropdown and enter the remarks then the request would go to the next level for approval. Once request is approved by manager then he/she can able to enter the timesheet manually. Admin has also see the pending request from his/her end.    Responsibilities:  • Responsible for Business requirement gathering and analysis of existing modules.  • Involved in application design and architecture.  • Responsible for Details Design document.  • Responsible for developing Web forms using C#.NET, ADO.NET.  • Developed and modified various database object like SP, View and functions using T-SQL  Environment: ASP.Net, ADO .NET, VSS, SQL Server 2005, .Net 2.0/3.0, Visual Studio 2005, webservices. Software Engineer Final Quadrant Solution January 2007 to December 2008 This application is a product for tours and travel companies, hotel companies this is specifically for our prestige client E-bookers. Multiproduct for management system like Travel funnel service keeps checking the folder within specified interval when any Online Booking made through Customers. It includes various modules like Itinerary management, ticketing, payment, Dispatch details, Pax Information, Client, costing. Itinerary module having the Flight, Hotel, Other Products, insurance sub Module for passengers as per the booking details like number of passengers, destinations covered hotel stay, pick and drop from airport.  Responsibilities:  • Responsible for Business requirement gathering of the new enhancements in application.  • Responsible for preparing the detail design documents for enhancements.  • Responsible for developing the new screen and process for enhancements using the ASP.NET and ADO.NET  • Developing and modifying the various database objects like SP, View and functions using T-SQL  Environment: ASP.NET, ADO.NET, Oracle 8i, VSS, Windows 2000. Software Engineer Final Quadrant Solution June 2005 to January 2007 Final Quadrant "Suitcase" is an award-winning travel management solution for travel consolidators, travel agencies, hotel companies. This highly automated enterprise solution contains a multi-channel integrated booking engine, multiproduct for management system.MIS Reporting and ready third-party connectivity to many sources like GDS, payment gateways etc.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in analyzing the existing application and Responsible for preparing the design document  • Responsible for developing various screens using VB.NET, JavaScript and ADO.NET.  • Developed and modified various database objects like SP, View and functions using T-SQL.  • Developed windows services using VB.NET.  Environment: VB.NET, ADO.NET, XML, HTML, JavaScript, Visual Studio 2003, SQL Server 2000, Windows 2000. Education Masters in Computer Science Dr. B.R. Ambedkar University - Agra, Uttar Pradesh Bachelors in computer Science Dr. B.R. Ambedkar University - Agra, Uttar Pradesh Skills SQL (8 years), DATABASE (7 years), T-SQL (7 years), .NET (6 years), MS SQL SERVER (6 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:  .NET Technologies .NET Framework 4.0/3.5/2.0/1.1 ADO.NET, Web Services, Web API, Windows service, WCF, ADO.NET  Programming Languages C#, VB.NET  Database Technologies SQL Server 2012/2008/2005/2000, T-SQL, Oracle database, PL/SQL  Web Technologies ASP.NET MVC, ASP, HTML 5, Bootstrap, jQuery, AJAX, XML, JavaScript  Web Server IIS 7.0/6.0  Tools Visual Studio 2012/2008/2005/2003, MS Visio, Team Foundation Server (TFS), VSS 6.0    Operating Systems Windows 2008 R2/2003/Win 7/Win XP