Software Development Manager <span class="hl">Software</span> Development Manager Software Development Manager - Lanzatech Inc Chicago, IL • Experience with cross functional teams and execute full software development life cycle (SDLC) from translating marketing requirement, to software technical design, implementation, verification and deployment.  • Proficient knowledge in architectural design and implementation of Window/Web applications using C#/.NET, WPF, WCF, MVC, SQL Server, Data warehouse, Web Services and window services, Javascript(JQuery), HTML5, CSS etc.  • Strong command in integration of applications using third party API(application programming interface), and provide API and its documentation to third parties.  • Excellent written and verbal communication skills, demonstrated leadership skills and a good team player.  • Highly self-motivated, good conceptual skills and strong problem-solving ability.  • Successfully build and lead software development team using agile/SCRUM methodologies to deliver high quality applications on time and on budget. Work Experience Software Development Manager Lanzatech Inc - Skokie, IL March 2014 to Present Hands-on software development manager, responsible for leading and managing all aspects of the software development activities, overseeing and executing all phases of software development (SDLC), making sure products deliver on time and on budget, providing technical direction and mentoring team member.  Projects including:  • Design/Develop AWS cloud solution for centralized data lake/data warehouse, including ETL, data mining & visualization etc for machine learning and AI.  • Work with Engineering and science team to development advanced control software that is used at commercial plants, technologies include C#/.NET, multithreading, XML third party integration etc.  • Build LIMS(Lab Information Management System) web application for data archiving and reporting, using C#/.NET, MVC, SQL Server, SSRS, JQuery, HTML5 etc.  • Build a simulation software for scientists to automate their model using C#/.NET, WPF, Solver library, parallel programming etc.  • Develop sharepoint custom event receivers and web parts using C#/.NET, develop and maintain sharepoint solutions for document archiving, sharing, collaboration and workflow etc.  • Develop window services to parse scientific data from over twenty devices and controls using multi thread, filewatcherservice, C#/.NET, Linq to SQL etc.  • Work with third parties on software solutions and integrations, involve web services, API calls including Netsuite ERP software etc.  • Configure and support commercial Plants/Lab instruments to ensure running 24x7. Sr. Developer ElevateDigital Inc - Chicago, IL June 2012 to February 2014 Architect design and application development for Interactive touchscreen Kiosks. Work closely with Marketing and management team from gathering requirement, to design, to implementation, to deployment and maintenance, executing full software development life cycle, responsible for application architect, implementation, and database design.  Projects including:  • Build a sales management tool for back office using C#/.NET, Silverlight, MVC/JSON and LinQ to SQL, SQL server, WCF services etc.  • Create transportation and gift card mall applications using WPF and C#/.NET.  • Write SQL Server stored procedures to generate report for Ads display and application usages integrating with SSRS and Sharepoint.  • Build a content management tool using C#/.NET, SQL Server (stored procedures etc), integrate with Sharepoint web services, event receivers etc.  • Write a multithreaded file watcher window service, to monitor FTP server files change using C#/.NET and SQL server (LinQ to SQL). Sr. Software Engineer Jeron Electronic Systems, Inc - Chicago, IL August 2010 to June 2012 Responsible for architecting, designing and developing real time distributed applications that configure the nurses and mobile devices assignment, route messages from Nurse Call Gateway through TCP/IP/UDP to third party mobile devices. These applications are also capable of displaying nurse call system activities, generating reports for nurse managers etc. Utilized WPF and xbap for front end client, WCF services (SOA) and WCF data services (data entity framework) running on server PC, using SQL Server for database (stored procedures, views etc).    Other responsibilities outside the architect design and implementation include:  • Collaborated with marketing team to gather the requirement.  • Created standard procedures for application unit and integration testing.  • Worked closely with technical services for instruction manual and troubleshooting.  • Created MSI installer with custom installation features for software applications.  • Used Agile/Scrum work with team to deliver quality applications on time.  • Created and maintained source code version control and discrepancy report database. Software Engineer Eastman Kodak Company - Wheeling, IL October 2006 to August 2010 Designed and developed client server WinForm applications for a high speed production scanner (Ngenuity). Responsibilities include writing software specifications and test procedures; worked with firmware engineers to define the communication protocol and troubleshooting; designed and implemented multithreaded scanner utilities using C#/.NET, created software packages and deployment; supported manufacturing process and tech support issues; worked with third party driver developers to define and integrate applications. Software Project Engineer Rauland-Borg Corporation - Skokie, IL July 2001 to October 2006 Developed, enhanced and maintained real time healthcare communication systems using C/C++, C#/.NET, VB, SQL Server, InstallShield, both in embedded firmware and window applications. Education Master of Business Administration in Business Administration Northeastern Illinois University Master of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science Northeastern Illinois University Bachelor of Science in Mathematics in Mathematics Henan University