Software Engineer <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Software Engineer - Comcast Cable Philadelphia, PA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Engineer Comcast Cable - Philadelphia, PA August 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  • Responsible to handle operational and development for Apportal application which manage 18 million access point for successful provisioning, management and monitoring of APs over the Comcast production environment.  • Worked on OPT-IN/OUT Xfinity Wifi application to send the message to RabbitMQ. Working with Big Data Hive database to pull the data from external Comcast team. Implemented the SSO authentication using SiteMinder for Appotal application.  • Working on the HGM tool to add firmware's and devices for managing all XfinityWifi Home Hotspots throughout nationwide. Developing the External Comcast API for Xfinity Business partner to share marketing opt-in data for their venue using OAuth 2 token Authentication.  • Developing the WordPress CMS for Captive portal where Business unit can create and upload templates without requiring developers support. Maintain daily captive portal Web application allow users to gain access to internet from Xfinity Wifi.  • Working Talend ETLs to support the Xfinity Wifi Backend. Revamping legacy Xfinity Wifi APPortal Frontend Application using PhalconPHP, MySQL, ChartJS and ReactJS. Implementing Comcast Standard on the applications to give business look for internal customer.  • Working on the AP Portal application to track status and report of Access points. Using GitHub and Jenkins for code versioning, continuous integration and auto deployment. Involved in Agile process, bi-weekly Sprints, and daily Scrums to discuss the development of the application.  • Using Slack for internal team communication.    Environment: PHP 5/7, Python, Golang, RabbitMQ, Couchbase, PhalconPHP MVC, SlimPHP, MySQL, Oracle, ReactJS, JQuery, Bootstrap, Talend, GitHub, Jenkins, Photoshop CS6, HTML4/5, CSS, JavaScript, CentOS, CodeBig API, Shell Scripting, Hive, Hue, Docker container, Jenkins and Ansible. PHP Developer AAAE - Alexandria, VA March 2011 to July 2016 Responsibilities:  • Retained by airport clients and provided them e-learning products (LMS/CMS) either physical or virtual environment using HTML, JavaScript, PHP, MySQL and MS SQL Server 20May 2008. Developed each instance of Drupal/Moodle/Dokeos and customized plugin and theme.  • Integrated different ID badging software and Active directory to CMS/LMS. Developed role based authorization and authentication of users to each of the functionality of the system. Created and changed SCROM compliance courses in the articulate e-learning software.  • Worked on customizing modules, themes using API's and core Drupal modules. Worked in designing and developing Server optimization techniques like caching, output stream compression, Drupal module updates and releases etc. Maintained groups of multiple users with Drupal CMS.  • Worked as a part of team on a series of Drupal sites, which included custom panels, blocks, content types, and views that allow every user to customize the look of their site. Using Twitter Bootstrap, HTML5, CSS3 for Layout and Design.  • Performed system upgrades to Drupal Websites, including Drupal core, contributed modules and custom theme upgrades. Worked with Alertus to get devices and station data using REST API. Implemented ETS Payment gateway in the LMS to sell interactive courses online.  • Planned and conducted cross-browser usability testing against W3C. Integrated 4th Dimension SOAP in the LMS. Worked on the Flash builder (FLEX) to make printer friendly certificates.  • Developed as a multiple page application using PHP, Laravel 5, blade, MySQL, eloquent ORM, bootstrap, HTML, and CSS. Working on the wordPress to customize plugin and theme for digital badging System.  • Responsible for the consistency and coverage of technical documentation and unit testing. Followed agile process with EasyProject.    Environment: PHP 5/6, MySQL, MSSQL, Drupal 7, WordPress 4.5, Moodle, Dokeos, Laravel MVC, Bootstrap, Git, Articulate Studio/Storyline, Photoshop CS6, HTML4/5, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, Jquery, Flex 4.6, SOAP and REST API, CentOS, CPanel. PHP Developer Conair Corporation - Stamford, CT June 2010 to March 2011 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for handing and developing Conair and collaborating Brands Websites, micro sites, handle PCI compliance. Handled and done PHP 5.2 to 5.3 migrations for Web infrastructure. Meanwhile developing Conair's Client Websites.  • Successfully modified Google Map API version 2 to 3 on different Websites. Wrote Mootools function while implementing various UI Screens across the whole Web application (both consumer facing as well as internal application).  • Wrote Web pages and templates using W3C Web standards (XHTML and CSS). Identified and implemented SEO opportunities that increased site traffic exponentially. Implemented GD Graphics Library image manipulation. Cross-browser compatibility testing and tweaking.    Environment: PHP, MySQL, Navicat, Smarty, XML. Mootools, AJAX/JSON, SEO, Photoshop CS5, Dream Weaver. Drupal Developer Crest Group LLC - Wilton, CT May 2009 to June 2010 Responsibilities:  • Provided Technical assistance (content posting, Drupal CMS, Search Engine Optimization programs, Web 2.0, Web site stability). Performed standard query to pull more than 60k users for marketing report and promotion.  • Worked with the Database Schema design and normalization for database accessed by the procedural PHP pages. Completed clone of Game Politics in the drupal Website. Involved in content migration process from Drupal 5 to Drupal 6.  • Custom taxonomy and menu setup for enterprise with multisite implementation. Pushed different RSS feeds for blog and new articles. GOOGLE ANALYTICS Module and SEO for enterprise site.  • Developed the newsletter section to send out newsletters to new and existing customers and understood the old site for maintenance and provide necessary changes. Involved in Query Optimization by creating indexes, various joins in MySQL.    Environment: Drupal 5/6, PHP 5, MySQL, Ajax, JavaScript, phpMyAdmin, WHM (Web Hosting Manager), Cpanel. PHP Programmer Concept Infoway Pvt Ltd February 2006 to December 2007 India    Responsibilities:  • Designed the project layout using Microsoft Visio. Build E-commerce applications for clients and connected to reliable third-party gateways using PAYPAL.  • Integrated payment gateways such as Authorize.Net, setup data interchange with fulfilment vendors, performed security audits, and insured PCI compliance. Integrated latest technology AJAX and Normalized MySQL database.  • Implemented Third party charts in the client Website according to values. Passed through SDLC for ERP modules in the intranet application. Implemented store procedure, trigger, views for large database.    Environment: PHP 4/5, MySQL, JavaScript, Ajax, Smarty, FoxPro, PostgreSQL, Apache, Linux Server. Education Master in Computer Science in Computer Science University of Bridgeport - Bridgeport, CT December 2009 Bachelor in Computer Engineering in Computer Engineering Hemchandracharya North Gujarat University June 2005 Skills Api, Content management, Hive, Html, Javascript, Bootstrap, Object oriented, Php, Laravel, Python, Scripting, Xml, Ms access, Sql server, Mysql, Oracle, Postgresql, Sql, Ajax, Asp, HTML 5, CSS, Jquery, Git, Android