Sr. Software Engineer Sr. <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Sr. Software Engineer Needham, MA Dedicated to writing quality code. Driven by customer satisfaction. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Software Engineer Seismic - Boston, MA October 2018 to March 2019 Seismic offers the leading sales enablement platform serving a variety of industries.    • Integrated Seismic event streams with Mixpanel data repository.  • Designed an updated event pipeline for a new Seismic event data model.    C#, SQL Server 2017, Azure Service Fabric, Azure database services (sql, blob, table), REST, json, yaml, git, ansible, jenkins Sr. Software Engineer SleepMed - Peabody, MA January 2015 to September 2018 SleepMed is the largest private sleep diagnostics provider and the largest ambulatory EEG provider in the USA. DigiCloud is a product for ambulatory video EEG services which is utilized by hundreds of  neurologists as well as epilepsy centers.    • Spearheaded the effort to bring DigiCloud product to customers who thus received fast  location-independent access to streams of EEG and video data.  • Architected and implemented a solution which allowed physicians to securely share data within teams, labs, and departments.  • Designed and implemented multiple additional features and bugfixes (fixed 100% of top level  bugs in DigiCloud).  • Redesigned the signal processing code base for a sleep apnea detector product.  • Maintained and updated a large legacy code base (400K+ lines).  • Mentored junior software engineers. Conducted interviews of software engineer candidates.    C#, C++, SQL Server 2012, sqlite, AWS S3, WCF, REST, json, TFS, git, mstest, msbuild Sr. Software Engineer Opsec Security - Boston, MA February 2014 to November 2014 Opsec Security offers services of brand protection and anti-counterfeiting through product  authentication and track&trace capabilities.    • Introduced best practices (unit tests, separation of concerns).  • Implemented integration with an external track&trace product.  • Implemented interactive reports.    C#, SQL Server 2008, Javascript, WCF, nunit, Subversion, NHibernate, Kanban, Jira Sr. Software Developer Hubcast - Wakefield, MA August 2011 to November 2013 Hubcast provided SaaS and enterprise cloud print services to companies looking to completely  automate and manage their global print supply chain.    • Designed and developed a subsystem for managing and delivering on-demand high-quality  printable documents (back-end, front-end, database and cloud storage, unit tests).  • Implemented cross-browser UI for visual presentation and management of the long-term  document storage system.    C#, Javascript, SQL Server 2008, Ajax, json, jQuery, jQuery UI, Kendo UI, ASP.NET MVC, Entity  Framework, Rackspace, Subversion, CruiseControl.NET Sr. Software Developer Locateplus - Beverly, MA January 2004 to July 2010 Locateplus was a leader in business-to-business and business-to-customer aggregation of searches in the area of personal record retrieval.    • Designed and implemented an integrated web and windows based B2C application for processing bulk search queries. Led a team which designed algorithms for aggregated  searches in external data sources and in-house database (30 terabytes of data). Helped  customers define data retrieval criteria.  • Initiated, designed and developed a mobile client search application.  • Developed on-the-fly aggregated data search algorithms in the internal database and external  data vendors. Implemented measurement and analysis tools and optimized performance- critical paths. Continuously integrated data vendors, designed, tuned and implemented  aggregated search algorithms. Developed back-end integration of asynchronous external data  sources. Designed and implemented a web API for B2B partners.  • Designed and developed front-end functionality and user interface of a family of web sites  targeting different segments of customers.  • Taught a series of introductory lectures in computer programming for Locateplus staff.    C#, Javascript, C++, SQL Server 2000 and 2005, java, VB.NET, Ajax, json, XML, XSLT, ASP.NET, SOAP, MIME, pgp, vss, mercurial    Received an award for outstanding performance "above and beyond". Education MS in Computer Science in Computer Science University of Maryland College Park - College Park, MD MS in Applied Math Gubkin Academy of Oil and Gas - Moscow, RU