Application Developer Application <span class="hl">Developer</span> SQL Developer Manassas, VA As a database developer of 16+ years, I launched Lexicon, a tool that extracted, organized, summarized and reported DoD secret data. I migrated numerous legacy systems to more modern databases and applications. I have proven skill set and can-do attitude that will prove to be an asset to any project. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Application Developer ePlus Technology - Herndon, VA September 2017 to Present Systems Engineer Andrew King, CPA - Caldwell, ID 2001 to Present Worked as the chief architect to implemented newer technologies, automate the workforce, and cut overhead    Accomplishments  ? Converted Peer-to-Peer Network Active Directory Network  ? Installed, maintained, architected LAN and WAN technologies  ? Developed Websites  ? Developed SharePoint Solutions  ? Developed Backup Solutions  ? Installed and Maintained database for various applications Database Analyst Wells Fargo - Colorado Springs, CO August 2014 to August 2017 Database Analyst Hyatt - Omaha, NE December 2014 to April 2015 Software Developer Hewlett-Packard - Boise, ID 2001 to December 2014 Working for various projects, I oversaw the deployment of new SQL database: database objects, user interfaces, standards and overall architecture. The primary focus of the job was to merge data from unrelated data sources into a single database which allowed customers to retrieve prebuilt and custom reports to make business decisions.    Accomplishments  ? Achieved Team Lead: distribute workloads, assist in complex issues, and manage deadlines  ? Successful automated numerous processes through ETL processes  ? Oversaw or developed all SQL Objects: Stored Procedures, Triggers, Views, Functions, ETC  ? Developed ASPX WebForms (C#, Microsoft .NET)  ? Developed and Implemented N-Tier architecture  ? Developed MS Access databases for local and network uses  ? Developed SharePoint Solutions  ? Developed SSRS Reports  ? Developed and Maintained SSIS Packages Education High school or equivalent Skills Microsoft SQL Server 2005, 2008, 2008r2, 2012; Programming Languages: C#, Java; Frameworks: Microsoft .NET 2.0, 3.5, 4.0; SharePoint