Senior Application Developer Senior Application <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Application Developer - U.S. Bancorp Fund Services Glendale, WI Senior Application Developer in .NET with proven extensive experience that encapsulates all aspects of an application lifecycle from planning, architecture, implementation and support.  I have proven ability to implenent end-to-end Business Intelligence solutions using Microsoft BI stack from SSIS, SSAS adn SSRS. I practice DW concepts in all my solutions and with performance tuning experience. Work Experience Senior Application Developer U.S. Bancorp Fund Services - Milwaukee, WI 2011 to Present • NPORT/Liquidity Application - Designed and Developed SEC N-PORT/ Liquidity Processing System Data from various fund accounting systems internal/external and consolidated data into SEC N-PORT format through Donnelly ARC filing. The system also interacted with ICE and Bloomberg data vendors. (Technologies Used: SSIS, SQL Server, PLSQL, MVC, SSRS)  • Trade Automation Application - Designed and Developed trade automation process for fund accounting system. The process takes multiple client data sources and converts it to the standard trade ingestion format to Eagle Investment System. (CAR ID 3225) (Technologies Used: SSIS, SQL Server, PLSQL)  • Intraday NAV Application - Designed and Developed Money Market Fund Processing System, which interfaced with the business line fund accounting system. This was created due to requirements from the SEC on changes on how Money Market Funds were to be processed and calculate/report/multi NAV's. (Technologies Used:SSIS, SQL Server, PLSQL, ASP.NET, SSRS, SSAS)  • ETF Fund Processing Application - Collaborated to architect the ETF processing system for USBFS. This allowed USBFS to process ETF funds due to business line system limitation. (Technologies Used:SSIS, SQL Server, PLSQL, MVC, WCF)  • Fund Administration Checklist Application - Designed and Developed in house Automated Checklist System. This supportedFund Administration and Quality Assurance group on Fund related compliancerequirements. The Application also allowed users to set scheduled notifications. Fund managers are able to view all activities related to their fund through a dashboard. (Technologies Used:SSIS, SQL Server, PLSQL, ASP.NET)  • Fund Expense Processing Application - Designed and develop in-house Expense Processing System by integrating data from Oncontact CRM, Salesforce, Eagle STAR and Geneva by capturing data from these desperate systems and creating a common portal to house the data and resend the data to these systems for updating accounts and track expense data. (Technologies Used:SSIS, SQL Server, PLSQL, ASP.NET)  • Fund Data Hub - Designed and develop two data transfer between Salesforce and internal CRM system to keep data up to date for both external and internal users. Developed web portal to display data to USBFS. (Technologies Used:SSIS, Salesforce Object Query Language (SoQL), ASP.NET)  • Bluesky Account Audit - Designed and develop reconciliation process between Transfer Agent System and Blue Sky system. The system was used to notify any sales unreported to bluesky and any past due setups for the bluesky system. This process utilizes ETL between two databases and using rule based analytics to construct report output that shows the variance in the data. (Technologies Used:SSIS, SQL)  • Batch Invoice Email Process - Designed and develop batch email service for Revport System. The process was created by an internal need to batch emailing invoices by client as the off-shelf functionality can only email 1 invoice per client. (Technologies Used:SSIS, ASP.NET)  • Employee Management Audit Report - Designed process that will query Active Directory to a specific business unit to track employees that have left USBFS. (Technologies Used:SSIS, SQL Server, ActiveDirectory) Programmer / Analyst Landmark Credit Union - Waukesha, WI 2008 to 2011 • Oversaw design and implementation of financial merging software that allowed Landmark Credit Union to merge four credit unions (Wiscor, Allco, Lifetime and First Security) entire member data and accounts within 6 months removing a need for an outside vendor to perform merger task and save $800,000.  • Initiated in analyzing database architecture from different financial system to fit in Fiserv's XPDB system.  • Led design of staging database for LCU merger software, which improved  consistency of the data to be passed into XP Database  • Established automated reports for error reporting and summary of memberships and accounts successfully inserted into the system.  • Served as technical project lead for data and database consolidating projects.  • Consolidated multiple database servers to create unified database warehouse.  • Provided technical support and reports in various database inquiries to Landmark's Business Analysts, VP and Administrators.  • Created multiple internal web forms / solutions that improved business needs for LCU's - H.R, Accounting, Marketing, Business Lending, Indirect Loans and Administration. Software Developer / Analyst Robert Half Technology - Milwaukee, WI 2007 to 2008 • Developed ACH application and database Landmark Credit Union to replace manual paper filing process.  • Implemented solution to a web accessible interface that allows access in any branch for ease of access  • The developed ACH system removed cost in printing paper forms and improved the return time in all requested origination requests.  • Implemented various automated processes that analyzes the validity of data uploaded into the system  • Provided Landmark Credit Union Administrators with automated crystal reports that meet their needs. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science Siliman University 2007 Skills Asp, Asp.net, Web services, Database, Db2, Ms access, Mysql, Oracle, Sql, Ssrs, T-sql, Mvc, .net, Application development, C#, C++, Html, Javascript, Reporting tools, Visual basic Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Application Development Tools: C, C++, C#, .NET, Visual Basic, PSQL, SQL, T-SQL,  SSIS, DTS, Telerik, ASP.NET, HTML, Web Services, Symantec Workflow, Assembly, Java / JavaScript, MVC, Adeptia, XML, XAML, XSD  Database Platforms: DB2, MSSQL Server, Oracle, MySQL, Oralce, MS Access  Reporting Tools: Crystal Reports 9-13, SSRS, RDLC, GrapeCity Active Reports  SourceControl: VSS, TFS  Others: Salesforce / DocuPhase/IDATIX / Scrum/Agile Experience/Eagle Investment Systems, VersionOne