Sr.Net Developer Sr.Net <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr.Net Developer - American Eagle Rockland, MA • Over 10+ years of experience in Web and Client/Server applications using Microsoft .NET Technology, SQL Server, Oracle, C#,ASP.NET, ADO.NET, VB.NET,WCF, ASMX, XML and java script.  • Proficient in Object Oriented Design/Development (OOD), Object Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD), Model View Control (MVC) design pattern and Test Driven Development (TDD).  • Professional experience in web, mobile and back end applications Analyzing, Design, Development, Management and Implementation of Client-server, Mainframe and WEB enabled applications.  • Experience in advanced JavaScript/UI frameworks like AngularJS, Bootstrap/UI, JSON, and JQuery. Work Experience Sr.Net Developer American Eagle - Chicago, IL, US September 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in full life cycle of the project from requirements gathering, analyzing, designing, and developing the application using Iterative AGILE Methodology.  • Wrote backend code using C# 5.0, hands on experience in creating services for removal, adding and saving.  • Designed and developed an application using Model View Controller (MVC) application framework.  • Worked closely with the client team to design and develop the application according to the requirements using ASP.NET with the business logic implemented using C#.  • Created WCF Service which is responsible for communicating and providing real time data from Database to Client Application.  • Created Stored Procedures, functions, T-SQL queries in the SQL server.  • Created Proxy for WCF Test Client Application using Service Reference to test the WCF service by QA team.  • Used Entity Framework for data retrieving, querying and storage.  • Designed Console Application, which connects to the client FTP server and pulls the .CSV files to our database after the proper validation.  • Troubleshot the problems and fixed bugs through client requests, and QA.  • Participated in client meetings to discuss improvement options for the development of the application.  • Experience working with Team Foundation Server.  • Used ASP.NET MVC Page Controller pattern to add functionality to individual pages such as to accept input from the page request, invoke the requested actions on the controller.  • Co-ordinate with UX team to help them in designing the page.  • Used Angular, which communicated with a RESTful web service.  • Developed Data Access Layer Using Entity Framework using Repository, Aggregator and Façade Patterns to access data from Azure (SQL and File) storage, also used API calls to enterprise API to get data in case of enterprise data  • Used C#.NET to develop Code for Business and Repository Layer.  • Participated in various client meetings with the team to discuss improvements options during the development of the application.  • Followed Agile Methodologies (SCRUM, KANBAN and Extreme Programming).  • Maintained and designed databases with use of SQL server.  • Made use of KENDO UI to change the grids from normal data grids to kendo grid.  • Interacting with Business Analyst to ensure all the requirements are translated into technical requirements.  • Design, Development using C#, Java Script, AngularJS for the user interface using the Code behind Class technique.  • Experience in using AngularJS, ability to test views and able to do end to end unit testing. Also, using continuous integration  • Creating custom, general use modules and components which extend the elements and modules of AngularJS.  • Created test cases for service components.  • Created several Dto's and done entity mapping.  • Extensively worked on NoSQL development for developing applications using Azure.  • Resolved QA bugs for front end and back end.  • Unit tested the service components and participated in regression testing.  Environment: C#, HTML 5, CSS 3, MVC 4, ASP.NET 4.0/4.5, Angular, NodeJS, JSON, Visual Studio 2015, JavaScript, Query, Bootstrap, TFS, Agile, SQL Server 2012, Windows XP. Full Stack Developer Champion Logistics - Northlake, IL, US February 2015 to August 2017 Responsibilities:  • Involved in full life cycle of the project from requirements gathering, analyzing, designing, and developing the application using Iterative AGILE Methodology.  • Developed the application using .Net 3.5, WCF.  • Designed and developed a web based application and component using C# to automatically generate constants by reading and parsing XML source files and schema files.  • Enterprise n-tier software agent using Windows Communication Foundation (WCF) Web service hosted on IIS  • Involved in the creation of interface to manage user menu and Bulk update of Attributes using AngularJS, EXTJS, ODATA and JQuery  • Used Dependency Injection Pattern to reduce the dependency coupling between classes.  • Customized the Data Grid View Events for various rich UI features  • Developed User and Custom Controls with Event handling mechanism.  • Involved in development of UI (User Interface) Pages using the HTML 5, CSS 3, Master Pages & ASP.NET Controls and ASP classic controls.  • Used Windows Communication Foundation (WCF) web services for creating Service end points and Service contracts for the Application and consumed the web services.  • Experience in using AngularJS ability to test views and able to do end to end unit testing. Also, using continuous integration.  • Create database tables using SQL Server stored procedures, triggers and cursors for the forms.  • Communicate with server team to discuss and provide technical solutions to develop web services for data communication between client and server.  • Worked on SSIS Packages for the extraction of data and schedule the jobs to run on daily Feed basis  • Created various reports like tabular reports, matrix reports, and parameterized reports using SSRS.  • Designed and developed an application using Model View Controller (MVC) 4 application framework.  • Experience working with Team Foundation Server 2008.  • Used the Object Oriented Programming (OOP) techniques and created classes (C#.NET) for database access.  • Working in Agile Methodologies for rapid development and regular adaption to the varying requirements and continuous delivery of the working software.  • Integrating all client components and performed unit testing.  • Followed Agile Scrum methodologies, Test driven development (TTD).  • Participated in various client meetings with the team to discuss improvements options during the development of the application.  Environment: C#, MVC 4, ASP.NET 4.0/4.5, WCF, AngularJS, NodeJS, AJAX, JSON, Visual Studio 2010/2012/2013,JavaScript, JQuery, Bootstrap, LINQ, TDD, REST, IIS 6.0/7.0, TFS, Agile, SQL Server 2008/2012, Windows XP. .NET Developer Encore Capital Group - San Diego, CA, US March 2013 to January 2015 Responsibilities:  • Involved in gathering and analyzing the requirements from end-user.  • Developed and designed the web pages by using VB.NET, C# and ASP.NET.  • Design and development of user interface using ASP.NET, VB.Net, HTML, JavaScript  • Followed Agile Methodologies (Scrum and Extreme Programming).  • Involved in documenting the process both at the Functional and Technical level using Visio UML.  • Designed User Interface using Asp.net Standard Controls, Win Forms and Ajax Controls.  • Created and Consumed Web Services.  • Worked with ASP.NET MVC application with UI framework AngularJS and used several ASP.NET MVC features like Routing, HTML helpers, Action Filters, Partial Views, etc.  • Created and developed good design for mobile applications.  • Design and make e-statements using mobile applications.  • Design and connect the database with the use of VB.net components.  • Used Entity Framework to act a bridge between the application and Database.  • Created Master pages and CSS files for uniform look across web interface.  • Extensively used ADO.NET objects like Connection, Command, Data Reader, Data Adapter and Dataset.  • MSSQL Server is used to create the databases and those databases are integrated in Application.  • Maintained and designed databases with use of SQL server.  • Designed and developed complete front-end application using Classic ASP /VB Web Forms.  • Worked on parsing and editing XML documents by validating it to the schema using class libraries provided by .NET.  • Designed and developed several SQL Server stored procedures for all the DML functionality for the web site.  • Involved in System and Integration Testing.  Environment: .Net Framework 4.0, Visual Studio 2010, ASP.NET 4.0, C#.Net3.5,VB.NET, HTML5 ,CSS3, JavaScript, J-Query, Web Services WCF, SQL SERVER 2008/2010, SSIS, SSRS, VSS,TFS, MVC3.0 and 4.0, UML, C#. .NET Developer CoStar Realty Information, Inc - Richmond, VA, US August 2011 to February 2013 Responsibilities:  • Developed applications based on departmental requirements and specifications.  • Prepared and executed test scenarios to test the functionality of the application.  • Used agile methodology for the development.  • Built User Interface with various UI technologies like HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JQuery, etc.  • Used simplified client and server side validation, better session management and powerful data access management using ASP.NET.  • Worked as UI Designer and Developer for the Web application using HTML5, C# and ASP.NET.  • Used AJAX Controls to increase the responsiveness of the web application, used AJAX Toolkit for user Interface Development.  • Used ADO.Net to perform the Create, Retrieve, Update, Delete operations on the database.  • Participated in database modeling and development using SQL Server, Stored Procedures, Packages and Functions.  • Created DTO's and DAO's in the data access layer to perform data transactions.  • Design and implementation of tables, stored procedures, triggers, views, PL/SQL statements for database operations using ADO. NET.  • Data Access layer is implemented using ADO.NET to Communicate with the Oracle Database and to access, update the data in the database.  • Deployed and maintained ASP.NET applications running at IIS 6.0.  • Created Deployment projects for .NET applications using Microsoft's MSI packages.  • Involved in resolving operational problems and systems failures by directing and/or performing systems audits, analyzing problems and developing clear, concise methods for resolution.  • Involved in Feature testing and Regression testing, bug tracking and defect management.  Environment: Visual Studio, ASP.NET, ADO.NET, C#, HTML, CSS, XML, IIS, JavaScript, SQL Server, Master Pages, VSS, MSSQL Server. Jr. Software Engineer CSRA - Scott Afb, IL, US September 2010 to July 2011 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for design, Development of Application using C#.Net  • Created custom controls to maintain across the web application.  • Implemented XML Web services.  • Involved in developing reusable and optimized .Net components.  • Implemented Data Access Layer using ADO.Net to communicate With the MS SQL Server 2000 Database.  • Involved in writing Stored Procedures and creating Tables, Views in SQL Server 2000.  • ASP.Net web application and .Net components hosted in Windows 2003.  • Involved in taking Backups, Restoring, Import/Export data using MS SQL Server and DTS.  • Designed and developed Reports by using Crystal report Bundled Version for .Net.  • Developed an independent component for data access, which can be used as generic component for every project. This component generates parameters from stored procedures dynamically and used some overload functions for executing Queries, which ensures the complete N-Tier architecture.  Environment:ASP.Net 1.1/1.0, C#.Net, ADO.Net, .Net Framework 2.0/1.1, HTML, XML, XSLT, Windows 2003, SQL Server 2005/2000, UML. .Net Web Developer Azimuth Systems - Acton, MA, US July 2008 to August 2010 Responsibilities:  • Involved in requirement analysis, design, development, testing, and documentation and production deployment.  • Worked extensively on developing WCF web services using .Net Framework3.0, Asp.Net, C#, XML, JavaScript, Ajax and Html.  • Developing WCF services and consuming them in WPF and class library applications.  • Created the Entities for the database objects, Custom Entities and tables using EntityFramework.  • Developing Web forms and windows forms for concerned applications using Angular js.  • Working on Work Items in Team Foundation Server (TFS).  • Powerful object manipulation capabilities. Objects can be directly manipulated or sent to other tools or databases POWER SHELL.  • Employed code-first development using NHibernate and fluent mappings.  • Extensively used MS commerce server to develop E commerce web application.  • Designed and developed dynamic ASPX web pages using C#, ASP.Net, HTML5, Java Script.  • Used Telerik Controls for UI.  • Automated unit testing by using Microsoft N unit test.  • Developing applications using RESTFUL architecture using Node.js and writing clean and elegant markup using jQuery CSS, HTML.  • Building Single Page Application at Knockout, NodeJS, JavaScript with Bootstrap styling.  • Designed the application using an MVC(Model View Control) Architecture that promotes clear separation of the presentation , business logic and data access tiers.  • Migrated SQL Server 2008 database to Windows Azure SQL Database and updating the Connection Strings based on this.  • Used GIT for source code management.  • Used Cascading Style Sheets (CSS) and Bootstrap to apply styles to List View and some other tables in dashboards.  • Involved in performance optimization and tuning.  • Developing a new WPF/Silverlight/XAML and WCF/SQL based application using the MVVM design pattern.  • Built responsive Web pages using kendo UI.  • Created widgets using Kendo UI.  • Used web controls and User Controls to provide standard interactive User Interface.  • Created ETL packages using SSIS.  • Used Kendo UI, Bootstrap, and JQuery libraries for more productive web design.  • Created databases and schema objects including tables, indexes and applied constraints, connected various applications to the database and written functions, stored procedures and triggers using MS-SQL, T-SQL and SQL Server 2012.  • Building web applications with Spring MVC, ASP.NET MVC, JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, HTML, XHTML, and CSS.  • Involved in writing user-defined functions (UDFs), user-defined types (UDTs), and queries using T-SQL and SQL server analyzer.  • Involved in creating RESTful web services.  Environment: .NET Framework 3.5, MVC 4.0, MS Visual Studio 2008, POWER SHELL, WCF, JSON, ASP.NET, C#, JavaScript, JQuery, WPF, HTML5, CSS3, BootStrap, Kendo UI, Node.js, Entity Framework, KnockoutJS, SSIS, AJAX, AjaxControlToolKit, Angular js(2.0), XML, RESTful. SQL Server 2008, ADO.NET. Education Bachelor's Skills ADO, DATABASES, ADO.NET, SQL SERVER, SQL SERVER 2005 Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information Technical Skills:  Languages C#, .Net Framework(1.1, 2.0, 3.0, 3.5, 4.0), VB 6.0, HTML, XML, Java Script, C, C++, JQuery, HTML 5, CSS 3, AS.NET, VBScript ASP 3.0  Frameworks ASP.NET, ADO.NET, WCF, MVC, LINQ, IIS, ASP, CSS, TFS, AngularJS, NodeJS, JQuery.  Operating System DOS, NT/98/XP/2000/2003/, Vista/2008, Windows 2003,2008,2012,XP and Windows 7  Databases SQL Server 2005/2008/2010/2012, T-SQL, Stored Procedures, PL/SQL.  .NET Technologies ASP.NET, XML Web Services, ADO.NET, WCF, WPF and Web API, Win Forms, Web Forms Windows Services.  IDE Visual Studio 2003/2005/2008/2010/2012/2013, Notepad++  Methodologies N-tier Application, SOA, Client/Server Architecture, OOA Prototyping, Process Models Systems Integration.  Web Servers Internet Information Server (IIS), REST with WCF, SOAP, API  Version Control Tools Team Foundation Server, Test Driven Development (TDD), Visual Source Safe (VSS)  Browsers ALL ( IE, Google Chrome, Mozilla, Opera)  Markup Languages HTML, XHTML, XML, XSL, DHTML, AngularJS, Javascript, CSS