Sr. Application Developer Sr. Application <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Application Developer - PACE Computer Solutions Reston, VA • Highly motivated technical professional with over 11 years of experience in roles of Software Development, Business Analyst and Managerial functions in Real Estate, Federal, Healthcare, Travel, Education and Financial sector.  • Expertise in all phases of SDLC including Analysis, Design, Development and Implementation of large software applications.  • Adroit at multitasking and thrive in a fast paced environment while coordinating numerous time sensitive activities.  • Extensive experience with Object Oriented Analysis and Design using UML, Rational Unified Process (RUP), Waterfall life cycle, Agile methodology using Prototyping, Scrum.  • Proficient in Software Design and Development on Intranet / Internet technologies using AngularJs 1.x, Angular 2/4/5, TypeScript 2.0, ES6/ES2015, Node.JS, Java, J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, JMS, ColdFusion, C, HTML, VB scripting, Java Script, JQuery, Ajax, CSS.  • Basic knowledge on Amazon Web Services (AWS), Amazon cloud services like Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2), Simple Storage Service (S3), EFS, RDS like MySQL and Amazon Simple DB, MongoDB, Cloud Formation. Created Users, Roles, Policies and Groups using IAM.  • Strong analytical skills & experience in Object Oriented concepts & programming techniques.  • Sound Relational Database (RDBMS) concepts, Database Designing, Normalization, Query Optimization, PL/SQL, Stored Procedures, Triggers and extensively worked with MS SQL Server, Oracle, DBVisualizer and MySQL.  • Well versed in project management tool (MS Project/MS Excel) for status reporting, planning and writing test scenario.  • Team lead skills encompassing user interviews, coordination with Business Managers, DBA's, Developers, QA/QC Analysts during the design phase.  • Experience in working with Cross Functional Teams and interacting with all levels of management for requirements, resources and project status and delivering custom applications in phases.  • Strong analytical and problem solving skills, capable of addressing relevant facts and recommending solutions.  • A good team player and exceptional talent for quickly learning new systems and company protocols. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Sr. Application Developer PACE Computer Solutions - Columbia, MD January 2011 to Present • Architect & developed cloud applications using AWS cloud and supported programming languages like Java, ReactJS & Node JS.  • Created micro services using AWS Lamda, SNS/SQS, S3, IAM, CloudWatch, EC2, RDS and DynamoDB, AWS CLI.  • Created a process management dashboard using React.js, NodeJs using AWS Cognito, Lambda, DynamoDB, EC2.  • Fluency with CI/CD toolsets such as: Jenkins, Ansible, CloudFormation, BitBucket   • Working knowledge of distributed architectural design patterns.  • Experience working with git, Maven, Grunt, Bower, Webpack, Gulp, Karma, Node.js, responsive design and RESTful APIs.  • Currently using agile scrum methodology, estimating sprint velocity and   level of effort using story points. Cloud DevOps Engineer PACE Computer Solutions - Reston, VA April 2018 to June 2018 • Architect & developed cloud applications using AWS cloud and supported programming languages like Java, ReactJS & Node JS.  • Created micro services using AWS Lamda, SNS/SQS, S3, IAM, CloudWatch, EC2, RDS and DynamoDB, AWS CLI.  • Created a process management dashboard using React.js, NodeJs using AWS Cognito, Lambda, DynamoDB, EC2.  • Fluency with CI/CD toolsets such as: Jenkins, Ansible, CloudFormation, BitBucket  • Working knowledge of distributed architectural design patterns.  • Experience working with git, Maven, Grunt, Bower, Webpack, Gulp, Karma, Node.js, responsive design and RESTful APIs.  • Currently using agile scrum methodology, estimating sprint velocity and level of effort using story points. Staff Tools, Student Tools and Web Apps PACE Computer Solutions - Washington, DC May 2013 to March 2018 Washington DC May 2013 - March 2018  • Architecting & Developing web applications using AngularJs1.x, Angular 2/4, TypeScript 2.0, ES6/ES2015, Java, Spring MVC, Hibernate and ColdFusion 8/9 with Oracle database.  • Worked on re-engineering major online medical college applications using AngularJs & Java.  • Decomposed monolith legacy service into micro-services and built REST services using Java, Spring, HQL, Spring Batch.  • Built MCAT exam results parsing and scoring service and improved performance as data grew.  • Experience working with SOAP and Restful web service development in Service Oriented Architecture (SOA).  • Monitored and improved app performances using Splunk, NewRelic, DB tuning, load testing.  • Worked on enhancements to AMCAS, MCAT & ERAS applications including Staff Tools, Student Tools and Web Apps.  • Strong command of AngularJs, Java, JMS, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3 and experience in SPA frameworks.  • Integration of user-facing elements developed using Angular with server side logic built using Java or NODE.  • Experience working with git, Maven, Grunt, Bower, Webpack, Gulp, Karma, Node.js, responsive design and RESTful APIs.  • Experience with service-oriented architecture development and implementation.  • Experience and understanding of architectural principles and frameworks (MVC).  • Planning and estimating project tasks and schedules including Mid Range Planning.  • Currently using agile Scrum methodology, estimating sprint velocity and level of effort using story points.  • Collaborate with business partners, vendors, consultants and manager to define service levels.  • Develop restructure process routines; lead efforts to enhance performance of existing applications based on analysis of performance tests.  • Collaborate regularly with other IT teams and sections, business partners on a daily basis.  • Used JUnit/ Mockito / SOAP UI for test driven development (TDD) and performing unit testing.  • Responsible for code review, maintaining application flow, debug, build and deployment. Sr. Software Developer PACE Computer Solutions - Baltimore, MD January 2013 to May 2013 • Developing web applications using Java, jQuery, JavaScript and ColdFusion 8/9 with Sybase, Oracle and MS SQL Server backend.  • Worked on optimizing the corporate site and SEO.  • Developing complex web application using SQL, CSS, ColdFusion 9, Java, AJAX, jQuery and JavaScript.  • Gathering requirements from the system users and proposing efficient solutions.  • Involved in design and development of web applications that are a part of an enterprise vision.  • Design and develop web content at the Enterprise Intranet/Extranet level.  • eBusiness/eCommerce application development, implementation, coordination of internally developed applications as well as commercial ones.  • Assist in the design and development of Enterprise level sites and applications according to a distributed development and administration model.  • Assist in the development and evolution of associated standards, style guides, templates and process documents. Software Developer / Analyst PACE Computer Solutions - Los Angeles, CA March 2012 to January 2013 • Developing web applications using Java, Spring, Hibernate and ColdFusion 8/9 with a MS SQL Server 2008 backend.  • Developing complex web application using SQL, SOAP, XML, CSS, XSLT, ColdFusion 9, AJAX, jQuery and JavaScript.  • Work with account managers to facilitate consensus in client meetings while projecting confidence, significant industry knowledge and basic facilitation skills.  • Collaborate with Technical Lead, System Architect and Business Analyst to integrate different perspectives into technical documentation.  • Demonstrate best-practice knowledge and apply skills to deliver an effective solution specific to client needs.  • Translate business and technical requirements into extensible, scalable and maintainable applications  • Design and Implement an efficient solution that meets the functional requirements and is extensible and easily maintained.  • Extend existing or develop new code base using proven best-practice patterns and coding standards.  • Thoroughly unit test code for all contingencies outlined in the requirements documentation  • Lead team of developers to develop unique solutions that utilize appropriate, leading-edge knowledge to help client realize business objectives Software Developer / Analyst PACE Computer Solutions - Baltimore, MD January 2011 to March 2012 • Developing web applications using ColdFusion 8/9 with a DB2 backend.  • Developing complex web application using Java/J2EE, Spring, SQL, XML, CSS , Blueprint, XSLT, ColdFusion 9, AJAX, JQuery and JavaScript.  • Very strong SQL skills including experience writing complicated SQL statements involving more than three tables and stored procedures in DB2.  • Experience with writing and using ColdFusion Components and object oriented programming methodologies.  • Highly efficient working in a dynamic environment, handling multiple tasks simultaneously with the ability to work on multiple projects at any time.  • Building Section 508 compliant applications.  • Active participation in client meetings.  • Responsible for code review, maintaining application flow, debug, build and deployment.  • Excellent communication skills, employee relationship management.  • Created website wireframes for the upcoming release based on workgroup interactions.  • Currently US Security Public Trust Clearance obtained. Software Developer / Analyst Modelling Tools - Baltimore, MD April 2010 to January 2011 • Created flow chart for process and ER Diagram using MS Visio.  • Designed a new reporting module, which modifies the reports based on the client requirement.  • Handling multiple projects, working with franchise users, nurses, administrative staff and marketing team.  • Designed and developed customer experience survey (testimonials) application, which has a potential of 7000 users/year using Agile technology.  • Involved in analysing the business needs, system and database designing.  • Revamped the flu scheduler with complex functionalities using Cold Fusion, Java Script, Java/J2EE, Spring MVC framework, AJAX, CSS, SQL and HTML.  • Created flu clinics for major clients, which has potential of 40,000 users for the flu season, generated revenue of 100,000USD.  • Created marketing applications, used for potential client management.  • Optimized database queries using indexing, proper join techniques etc.  • Created scheduled tasks for appointment email reminders using ColdFusion Administrator.  • Outlook appointment reminders for flu-clinics using ColdFusion, Java Script based on the inputs to the form. Software Developer / Analyst Modelling Tools - Baltimore, MD January 2008 to December 2009 Baltimore, MD (UMBC) Jan 2008 - Dec 2009  Designation: Software Developer / Analyst    Project Responsibilities:  • Designed and Developed SQL database for various departments.  • Maintained and Administered SQL and Access Databases for budgets, schedules and courses.  • Analysed the data consistency on the databases.  • Played major role in Project Initiation and Gathering Business Requirement from Business Executives.  • Used Rational Clear Quest for change tracking, process automation, reporting and lifecycle traceability for better visibility and control of the software development lifecycle.  • Worked independently on PeopleSoft application, involved in creating automation test scripts using Quick Test Professional (QTP).  • Built Applications in Cold Fusion, Java Script, HTML involving Billing (BI), Accounts Payable (AP), Purchase Order, Class Scheduling and Student enrolment.  • Built iPhone Applications for Library Viz. RSS Feeds, Kiosk Info, Staff Directory etc.  • Worked on iPhone SDK 3.0 using Objective C. Software Engineer Keane India December 2006 to January 2008 Project Responsibilities:  • Responsible for communicating with on-site manager for setting schedules for team members.  • Used Rational Clear Quest for change tracking, process automation, reporting and lifecycle traceability for better visibility and control of the software development lifecycle.  • Used Rational Requisite Pro to maintain the requirements and to write use cases.  • Maintained a dashboard on the Project website to keep track of the change request submitted and categorized them as active, approved, deferred or rejected.  • Developed web applications for Pathways Materials Management and Pathways Financial Management using ColdFusion MX 7.0.2, SQL Server 2003, Java Script, VB 6.  • Developed various Oracle sub functions like Stored Procedures, Functions, and Packages using PL/SQL as per design documents.  • Worked on analysing and designing tables based on small and large database transactions.  • Loaded data from the files available in different formats into the development server using SQL*Loader.  • Actively involved in executing regression testing and creating automation test scripts using QTP.  • Acted as a Liaison with developers, business analysts, and user representatives in application design and document reviews. Java Programmer Computronics - IN January 2005 to December 2006 Project Responsibilities:  • Worked on building a Point of Sale Application and building a web page.  • Conducted surveys, interviews, and JRP and JAD sessions and translated them into system Requirements.  • Involved in analysing the business needs, system and database designing.  • Participate in team estimation and proposed the possible solutions.  • Created and deployed web pages using HTML, JAVA, JSP, JSTL, Dojo and AJAX.  • Implemented server side task using Java, Hibernate, Servlets, Java Beans and XML.    ACADEMIC PROJECT:  ALU using Optical shadow casting using Microcontroller 8031-  • Project Leader for a team of 4 members. Programmed an 8031 Microcontroller to run a stepper motor in angles based on the logical symbolic substitutions.  • Using Optical computing developed an Arithmetic Logic Unit to compute all logical operations and adder using polarized encoded optical shadow casting and symbolic substitution.    Rental Car Management System -  • Developed a PL/SQL code using SQL Developer for creating queries, functions, procedures and other database related operations. Prepared the database layout, developed E-R diagram and logical schema using Microsoft Visio.    "MyMovieGuide": A movie recommender system -  • Collaborative filtering based recommender system for movies based on the user' profile.  • Development of user management module using languages such as Java & PHP.    VMI Bookstore Inventory System -  • Planning, Analysis and designing of a point of sale web based system and internal inventory system.  • Developed use cases and Data Flow Diagrams (DFD's) by gathering requirements from end user using Microsoft Visio. Prepared budget estimates and software & hardware specifications.    Privacy preserving email mining -  • Technique used to mine E-mails using Ontology (Weka). Implemented a Java program using Net Beans, which would use the words in the emails and compute the ontology, hence help in identifying the source. Education Master of Science in Information Systems University of Maryland Baltimore County - Baltimore, MD Bachelor of Engineering in Electronics and Communications Gogte Institute of Technology Skills MVC, Java, Angularjs, Angular (6 years), Javascript, Node, AWS, Jquery, React