Senior Software Developer Senior <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Software Developer Boca Raton, FL To obtain a challenging development position at a dynamic company with opportunity for growth and advancement Work Experience Senior Software Developer Intelisent October 2012 to July 2019 Wrote a customized website in .NET for a blue chip company from ground up. SSIS was utilized to process files FTPed. The files were placed in staging tables. Data was then normalized and placed into appropriate tables referenced by website. SSRS was used to write the reports exposed within the website. The website exposed data for display purposes via 3rd party controls such as telerik's radgrid control. The site was written to scale with millions of record being processed nightly. The entire site and ancillary processes were coded in a period of about 3 months by myself only. Site is still in operation to do this day supported by more junior level programmers.  After that project, I was designated as project lead over the Webtrack product for Intelisent.  Requirements responsibilities  Attend support as well as analyst driven meetings to gather requirements and place requirements into Axosoft(a requirements gathering tool). Provide estimates of each task entered and assign  tasks to appropriate releases.  Design responsibilities  With end users, management, and support input, design and layout the architecture needed to fulfill  the requirements. This ranged from choosing which 3rd party package to integrate into the Webtrack product to actual implementation of new supporting architecture. I converted the system into a multi-factor authentication  system to tighten security. I also had a conversation with analysts about feedback from clients as to how to integrate new user's requests and struck a balance between giving what the user's desired while at the same time ensuring architectural integrity.  Development responsibilities  Create databases and/or their supporting structures for any major development task. Since the mail tracking world deals with a large number of records(usually around 2 to 3 billion a year), scaling was always important. I sectioned off areas that could be improved by table partitioning and implemented partitioning on tables containing billions of records. This allowed us to take on multiple blue chip companies with large datasets in a streamline fashion.  I coded all new UI development in the front end using a 3 tier architecture. I moved the middle layer which was essentially coded in ADO.net to Entity Framework encapsulated into a new business object dll. This dll was used from many areas of the product including web services, auto-loading SSIS packages, and the website itself. I also wrote all of the web service methods exposed to allow eternal customers to get data into our system without having to login to the website. Many of the more complicated reports were also written by myself in SSRS and exposed either via subscription model or through the website itself.  This webtrack product typically had a release schedule of an every other month deployment. I was the sole person responsible for deployments and worked off hours as to not infringe on any business hours activity. During deployment, my other responsibility was to ensure we were meeting our security audits via the Veracode system. Thus, during each release an additional deployment was made to their system as well where they would run security audits and give reports that I would then address to ensure we were meeting an adequate security grade.  Quality Assurance responsibilities  During my last 3 years of employment with this company, there were no quality assurance analysts on the team. As such, I was responsible for testing all code written and deployed.  Maintenance responsibilities  Responsible for fixing any bugs associated with a release in the most timely manner possible so as to not limit end user productivity. If the bug for a release was a hot issue that could not wait until the next deployment, I would hot-fix the issue to production during off hours. Senior Software Engineer Scientific Research Corporation May 2004 to October 2012 Involved in the software lifecycle in the areas of requirements,design, development, testing, and maintenance of web applications used by the United States Navy.  Requirements responsibilities  Attend end user meetings to determine requirements gathering.  Determine and layout amount of effort needed to fulfill requirements within a given time frame and create schedule of work.  Design responsibilities  With end users input, design and layout the architecture needed to fulfill the requirements.  Development responsibilities  Create the database to be used in such applications. This includes everything from creation of tables, stored procedures,functions,views to maintaining revisions that update the database on both test and production servers. Most of my work in this area has been performed in SQL Server 2008.  Code and provide the ability to access this data from the database via another layer. Many different technologies have been used in this layer. Such technologies are ADO.NET data adapters, Web Services, Table Adapters, and Linq. If the assembly is likely to be referenced from more than one place, it is strongly typed and placed in the GAC.  Code the UI for the application. This includes writing C# or VB.Net code to create web pages as well as manage retrieving and saving data. In some cases, new web controls are needed. In such cases, I write controls such as a menu,grid, and dropdown checklist controls. If reports are needed, they are written as well either with Microsoft's reporting engine or Crystal Reports. Currently using Visual Studio 2008 as the framework for creation of the UI.  Authentication is another aspect of the web application that must be handled. I am familiar with both forms and windows authentication. Currently use forms authentication within applications.  Deployment of these application to both test and production servers is another responsibility I must adhere to.  Quality Assurance responsibilities  There are no quality assurance analysts on the team. As such, I am responsible for testing all code written and deployed.  Maintenance responsibilities  Responsible for fixing any bugs associated with a release in the most timely manner possible so as to not limit end user productivity.    I was Project lead for two web applications, DGSIT(Deploying Group Systems Integration Testing) and a Mission Thread Diagramming application.  The former application allows users to enter data into a web application after testing systems within a  naval command. This data was used to generate reports as well make any adjustments to a command's  configuration. Users could upload and download files to the server that were related to the testing  procedure. I was the sole programmer responsible for creation of the UI. I wrote all web pages and reports used in the application. The database was written for SQL Server 2005 and the web application  was written in .NET with Visual Studio 2005. Ajax was used extensively in this application by using  update panels in many places. Table adapters were used as the middle layer for communication between the UI and the database.  The latter application was a diagramming application for the web similar to Visio. Users were allowed to layout missions by drawing activities(nodes) and connecting these activities with process flow  information elements. Naval commands were associated with each activity. I allowed integration with  Google Earth by auto generating a KML file which contained the command(ship)'s positions. This  allowed users to see where certain commands were at a given moment in time. I created reports and graphs displaying mission thread data via SQL Server Reporting Services. The database was created  using SQL Server 2008. The web GUI was created using .NET with Visual Studio 2008. Linq was  utilized as the middle layer for communication between the UI and database. A third party  control, Mindfusion, was used for much of the diagramming functionality. A web service was created to feed data for the generating of the google earth kml files.    I also worked as project lead on NTIRA's PRM(Personnel Requirements Manager). This is an application that managed out year funding for U.S. Fleet Cyber Command. It allowed data entry by  users which then is compiled into presentable powerpoint presentations for the pentagon. Calculations  are performed by the system to generate totals on a pay grade basis. The application is written in .NET  2010. Software Engineer III Blackbaud, Inc - Charleston, SC April 1999 to April 2004 Involved in the software lifecycle in the areas of design, development, testing, and maintenance of both accounting products(Accounts Payable, General Ledger, Accounts Receivable, Cash Receipts, Fixed Assets, Student Billing, Payroll modules) and educational products(Grades, Scheduling, and Reports)  Design responsibilities  Attended design specification reviews of specification documents created by Software Designers.  Provided feedback to the designer regarding any concerns for functionality of new product for future clients and implementation limitations given software architecture.  Development responsibilities  Worked closely with project lead to ensure schedule is accurate in terms of time needed for coding assignments.  Coded assigned tasks in VB6 within given time frame using COM components in a well architected n-tiered system.  Used COM/DCOM objects for both Windows and Web based products  Developed the UI, data object, and database layers for the post process of posting transactions from subsidiary systems into the General Ledger.  Responsible for validating the transactions in terms of business rules set up by versatile client configurations.  Shaped UI and process handling for a "Global Change" module; this module allowed changing fields for tables in a client's database table on a selective scale. Created new interface for data object layer to allow for an effective, generic, and self-evident integration between data object model and UI.  Wrote utilities to access SourceSafe and make changes to numerous files on a global scale in an extremely large code base.  Responsible for altering code base to allow migration from Sybase to SQL Server 2000.  Created data objects in VB6 for the data object layer in which objects adhered to Blackbaud's API, a product sold independently of the Financial and Education products.  Taught classes to fellow programmers about how to use these objects via Blackbaud's API. Mentored other programmers in regards to exposure to our system.  Utilized Blackbaud's API in ASP.NET for development of online Requisitions module for Accounts Payable product.  Used Primary Interop DLLS(PIAs) for COM components when accessing these VB6 COM components in .NET.  Designed and implemented database schema for both Sybase and SQL Server projects, this included adding tables, foreign keys, indexes for optimizing performance, stored procedures, UDFs, table UDFs, triggers, and views.  Wrote exception reports using Crystal reports for batch validation reports.  Quality Assurance responsibilities  Thoroughly tested code developed to ensure release quality before submitting software to the quality assurance department; this involved not only testing my area of development but also the global impact of my development.  Participate in "pre-blitz developer" testing with development team to ensure our product met published specifications.  Maintenance responsibilities  Ensured that any code written against a released product adhered to binary compatibility.  Wrote both generic and client specific utilities for clients to correct data corruption and improve performance.  Worked closely with customer support to write critical DLL patches to correct existing problems in released product. Education BS in Computer Science in Computer Science Georgia Southern University - Statesboro, GA March 1993 to August 1998 Georgia Institute of Technology - Atlanta, GA June 1991 to March 1993 Skills .NET, C#, C++, Hadoop, HTML, AWS, Java, Javascript