Software Development Engineer <span class="hl">Software</span> Development Engineer Software Development Engineer - Microsoft Corporation Kirkland, WA Work Experience Software Development Engineer Microsoft Corporation October 2013 to Present • Integrated SAP Cubs and Invoice data for finance Power BI reports to visualize outstanding numbers for auditors.  • Developed and Maintained Power BI Subledger, Cash Recon, AR Clearing and Aging report.  • Pulling big data from Cosmos scripts to ensure data processing is on time and all numbers are correct for over 40 reports and 40 monthly invoices and sending out to Mobile operators by due date.  • Created SSIS packages to integrate data from files on COSMOS and SAP Cubs.  • Responsible for developing and maintenance Third Party Reseller and ChinaXBox recon tools. Also bringing Cosmos data to allow users to perform monthly recons within a minute per recon than hours.  • Responsible for developing and maintenance MO billing financial recon tools to make sure invoices and monthly reports are right and scaling up recon processes to handle over 100 Mobile operators per month and within a minute per recon but scaling down more than a half of team resources  • Responsible for developing and maintenance GBI Feed tool for booking monthly revenues by clicks.  • Developed daily summary report for monitoring UST daily transactions and poison daily transactions by emailing report automatically to users for review. Reduce user manual work from a couple hours down to a minute.  • Supported Financial Team by running ad hoc reports requested by the auditors.  Skills: Power BI, SSIS, SQL, C# ASP.NET MVC, LINQ, AngularJS, JQuery, SignalR, Bootstrap, OData services, WCF Maharishi University of Management 2012 to 2013 Software Developer 2010 to 2012 Participated in all aspect software development lifecycle.  • Improved tracking and management of patient and financial information, designing and developing His Majesty's Patient Information System and Clinic system.  • Persisted data from MS SQL Server database, leveraging Entity Framework, performed LINQ queries.  • Optimized application performance conducted database design and normalization.  • Responsible for developing front-end and back-end application using C# ASP.NET MVC.  • Performed using JavaScript with client-side framework jQuery to control page rendering. Software Developer - Office of Computer Clustering Promotion NATIONAL SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT AGENCY 2007 to 2009 Served on team developing applications and systems for government clients.  • Achieved project goals for a $0.5 million project with more than 15 teammates by designing and implementing front-end user interfaces and back-end that enabled demands.  • Developed custom login web part and registration web part on MS SharePoint Server 2007.  • Created master pages and customized XSL for the content query web part.  • Responsible for Developing client/server and multi-tier web applications, by C#ASP.NET, JavaScript, Ajax.  • Designed class diagrams and mapped an object-oriented model to a database by using NHibernate. Microsoft .Net Young Developer Scholarship NATIONAL SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT AGENCY 2006 to 2007 Office of Computer Clustering Promotion    Participated in team developing applications and systems for government clients.  • Contributed actively to development of Internal Audit System for Ministry of Commerce.  • Responsible for designing class diagrams and created DNN modules, created DNN Skins, performing C# programming.  • Connected to the database using T-SQL to create a SQL query, store procedure and functions.  • Responsible for developing and maintenance reports by using MS SQL Server Reporting Service. Education Master of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science Maharishi University of Management - Fairfield, IA Bachelor and Master of Science Information Technology Dhurakij Pundit University - Bangkok, TH Skills Asp, Css, Internet information server, Iis, Asp.net, Sharepoint, Ms sql server, Sql server, Mysql, Sql, Ms visual studio, Visual studio, C#, Javascript, Bootstrap, Wcf, Xml, Android, Angularjs, Html5, Jquery, HTML 5 Additional Information Skills & Qualifications  Languages: C# • JAVA • JavaScript • AngularJS • Angular4 • jQuery • HTML5 • CSS • XML • LINQ • T-SQL  Web: ASP.NET • ASP.NET MVC • WCF • Odata • Entity Framework • MS Office SharePoint • NHibernate Databases: MS SQL Server • Azure • MySQL Platforms: MS Windows Server • Android  Tools: MS Visual Studio • MS SQL Server Reporting Services • MS Integration Services • SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS), SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS) • Power BI • COSMOS • Azure  • Platforms: Internet Information Server (IIS) • Windows Services Other Bootstrap, Unit Test, SignalR