Senior .NET Developer Senior .NET <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior .NET Developer - The Electronic System Edison, NJ Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior .NET Developer The Electronic System - New York, NY March 2018 to Present The Population Council is an international, nonprofit, nongovernmental organization that seeks to improve the well-being and reproductive health of current and future generations around the world and to help achieve a humane, equitable, and sustainable balance between people and resources.    Project 1: Audio Computer-Assisted Self Interviewing (ACASI)  ACASI application software allows privacy and standardized interviews. It helps the participants to hear the pre-recorded questions via a headset and respond using a touch screen or key pad. ACASI application is configured for use in 13 languages and dialects, and being used in variety of disciplines and in many countries.    • Worked on extending the application to configure for new language    • Extensively used XML for the data storage, import and export.    • Closely interacted with the business users to analyze the project.    Environment: C#, ASP.NET, Visual Studio.NET, SQL Server Senior .NET Developer The Electronic System - Brooklyn, NY November 2016 to March 2018 The New York City Department of Education consists of over 1,700 schools that serve about 1.1 million students each year. New York City's public schools are managed by Chancellor Dennis Walcott under the principles of Children First: leadership, empowerment, and accountability.    Project 1: Wireless Client Configuration (WCC)  Access to NYCDOE Wireless network requires that your wireless device be properly configured with the correct wireless network settings specific to your school. The WCC (Wireless Client Configuration) application allows you to request wireless settings based on the type and operating system of your device. Instructions on how to configure wireless devices for a specific configuration are also accessible from this site. Once the user selects the school and the device type and operating system, an e-mail will be automatically sent to the user"schools.nyc.gov" Outlook mailbox.    • Worked on analysis, design and development of application.  • Developed front end GUI using ASP.NET and C#.  • Created stored procedures and functions using T-SQL.  • Developed using MVC Pattern  • Used Master Pages feature in developing the web application.  • Used Telerik controls.  • Used JQUERY for Client Side programming.  • Created Admin module to configure new network devices.  • Created WCF services for data retrieval.  • Interacted closely with the business users to analyze the project.  • Used HTML 5 and CSS for positioning, layout, font, colors and style information for an entire web site.  • Involved in Unit Testing, Integration and Deployment in production and staging servers.  • Provide maintenance and enhancements to the site.    Environment: HTML 5, CSS, ASP.NET, C#, JQuery, Visual Studio.NET, SQL Server, WCF.    Project 2: Parent Teacher Association(PTA)  State Education Law requires that all public schools establish a School Leadership Team(SLT). This application will capture the Election, SLT, Officers and Title1 school Information.  Every fiscal year each school should submit this information. The application is accessible to the Principal and to the parent Coordinator.    • Worked on analysis, design and development of application.  • Developed front end GUI using ASP.NET and C#.  • Created stored procedures and functions using T-SQL.  • Used JQUERY for Client Side programming.  • Used Master Pages feature in developing the web application.  • Used Telerik controls.  • Created Admin module to allow admin to submit the report on behalf of the school.  • Created reports using SQL Server reporting services  • Interacted closely with the business users to analyze the project.  • Used CSS for positioning, layout, font, colors and style information for an entire web site.  • Involved in Unit Testing, Integration and Deployment in production and staging servers.  • Provide maintenance and enhancements to the site.    Environment: ASP.NET, C#, JQuery, CSS, Visual Studio.NET, SQL Server, SSRS. NET Developer The Electronic System - New York, NY June 2014 to September 2016 The Population Council is an international, nonprofit, nongovernmental organization that seeks to improve the well-being and reproductive health of current and future generations around the world and to help achieve a humane, equitable, and sustainable balance between people and resources.    Project 1: Audio Computer-Assisted Self Interviewing (ACASI)  ACASI application software allows privacy and standardized interviews. It helps the participants to hear the pre-recorded questions via a headset and respond using a touch screen or key pad. ACASI application is configured for use in 13 languages and dialects, and being used in variety of disciplines and in many countries.    • Working on conversion of C# 2005 .NET Framework 2.0 compact to C# 2005 .NET Framework 2.0  • Developed front end GUI using C# 2.0  • Used extensive graphic design.  • Extensively used XML for the data storage, import and export.  • Developed classes that plays .WAV sound files.  • Closely interacted with the business users to analyze the project.  • Involved in Unit Testing.  • Provided setup and installation of software in the tablet laptops.    Environment: C#, ASP.NET, Visual Studio.NET, SQL Server  Project 2: Horizons Data Portal    The Horizons data portal is a collection of datasets and corresponding documentation from field-based, applied operations research studies in developing countries that were completed by the Population Council's Horizons program between 1997 and 2008. This data portal has been created to assist a wide variety of users in framing and answering research questions useful in directing HIV and AIDS research and policy efforts.    • Worked on analysis, design and development of data portal.  • Developed front end GUI using ASP.NET 2.0 and VB.NET 2.0  • Developed the application using 3-Tier Architecture.  • Created stored procedures and functions using T-SQL.  • Used Master Pages feature in developing the web application.  • Used Advanced controls.  • Interacted closely with the bussiness users to analyze the project.  • Used CSS for positioning, layout, font, colors and style information for an entire web site.  • Involved in Unit Testing, Integration and Deployment in production and staging servers.  • Provide maintenance and enhancements to the site.  • Involved in project documentation.    Environment: ASP.NET, VB.NET, Java Script, ADO.NET, Visual Studio.NET, SQL Server 2000. Senior Software Engineer Marsh Inc June 2012 to May 2014 Global Benchmarking Portal  Marsh is a world leader in insurance and risk consulting services. Using this Benchmark portal, Marsh provides risk management and insurance brokering solutions to Fortune 1000 companies that is spread globally. Benchmarking Portal benchmarks different modules like FINPRO, PROPERTY, CASUALITY, VCORE, EMEA etc. This tool allows Marsh to evaluate each client with respect to their peers and generate extensive report as per client's insurance needs.    • Worked on design and development of new enhancements for the application.  • Developed front end GUI using ASP.NET and ASP.NET AJAX  • Developed custom AJAX method with JavaScript methods to call web services using PageMethods  • Integrated Adobe Flash UI slider module with the application using web services  • Used Anthem controls to enhance the performance of the page response time  • Used YUI and JQuery JavaScript Library for client side programming.  • Developed User controls to reuse throughout the application  • Developed DAL and BLL using Subsonic ORM Tool.  • Developed database objects like tables, views, stored procedures in SQL Server 2005  • Created stored procedures for data aggregation and migration between disparate data sources  • Created reports using SQL Server reporting services which is then exported as PDF. Reports variables are passed from ASP.NET web pages.  • Used 3rd party controls like Dundas chart and gauge controls for enhancing the presentation of the reports  • Involved in Unit Testing, Integration and deployment in Production and Staging Servers.    Environment: ASP.NET, C#, ASP.NET AJAX, Java Script, JQuery, YUI, ADO.NET, Visual Studio.NET, SQL Server 2005, SQL Reporting Services. Senior Software Engineer Microsoft, Redmond June 2010 to May 2012 ALES (Application Life Cycle Enhancement System)  ALES is a web-based application designed for Partners & Microsoft vendors. The clients can get registered to become various partners viz. Registered, Certified and Gold Certified partners. The main applications in this project are PMC (Partner Management Center), C2P2P (Customer 2 Partner, Partner 2 Partner), PLC ( Partner Learning Center ), Empower. The partners can enroll from this site and avail various physical and online benefits    • Worked on Development and maintenance of the application using Asp.net, C# AND vb.net  • Worked on Localization.  • Used AJAX for some pages that do not require the postback.  • Migrated modules from .net framework 1.1 to 2.0.  • Used Javascript for various client side operations.  • Wrote SQL QUERIES FOR DDL and DML operations.  • Used SQL Reporting services for generating reports.  • Wrote store procedures, created triggers and tables.    Environment: VB.Net, C#, ASP.NET, ADO.Net, Java Script, AJAX, HTML, XML, Visual Studio.Net, SQL Server 2005, Reporting Services. Software Engineer Indent Solutions - Erie, PA January 2008 to May 2010 IVOICE    IVoice is a web-based application designed for the Indent Solutions. The main goal of the project is to know the client details, package taken by them, usage of the phone calls and the billing details. IVoice helps to track the valuable information, which is very important to know the status of the business. There are various levels of users like Admin, Super Admin, Manager, Customer and Reseller. It provides better facility to know the duration of phone calls, receiver and sender details, phone numbers etc. It also provides the billing details of the customer, like the payment of the bills, status of the customer and supports the exporting features    • Connected SQL Server Database in VS.NET to access data.  • Designed and developed Web Application using ASP.NET and VB.NET as code behind language.  • Wrote different ASP.NET /HTML Pages for retrieving the user information and displaying the results.  • Used UML for Database design so that to share a common language to communicate with the database team.    Environment: C#, ASP.NET, VC++, ADO.Net, Java Script, HTML, XML, Web Matrix, SQL Server 2000. Education Master of Science in Information Systems in Information Systems College of Saint Rose - Rose, NY Additional Information SKILLS:    Programming Languages: C#.Net, VB.Net, C, C++, JavaScript, VB, PL/SQL, T-SQL, LINQ  Microsoft Technologies: ASP.NET, WCF, ADO.NET, Win Forms, WPF, WCF, AJAX,  Microsoft Office 2003 and 2007, COM and DCOM and COM+, IIS 5.0 and 6.0  Web Technologies: ASP.NET 1.1, ASP.NET 2.0, ASP.NET 3.5, ASP.NET 4.0, CSS, XML, HTML  RDBMS & Tools: Oracle 10g, SQL Server 2000, 2005 and 2008, MYSQL, MS Access, SQL Profiler, PostGre SQL.  Reporting Tools: Microsoft SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS), Crystal Reports  Version Control: Visual Source Safe (VSS), Team Foundation Server [TFS]  Third-Party: Infragistics and Telerik  Languages: C, C++, VC++, HTML, Core Java, SQL, PHP.  ORM Tools: Subsonic  Scripting Language: JavaScript, VB Script, JQuery  Source Control: Visual Source Safe 6.0, Team Foundation Server.