Java Software Engineer Java <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Java Software Engineer Austin, TX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java Software Engineer IGT Corporation - Austin, TX April 2019 to June 2019 • Working on the back-end for a conversion project of Lottery Software customized for jurisdictions and site specific requirements in Java 8 Utilizing Spring running on Jboss 6.4 packaged in Maven 3.5.2.  • Use Git 2.21.0 for versioning control and management. Utilizing GitLab to store our remote repository.  • Write Rest APIs for request/response scenarios utilizing Spring Boot while testing them using Postman 7.2.2.  • Manage and track database table changes with Liquibase 3.6.3 release on a DB2 system.  • Implemented site specific requirements on our baseline system. Handle issue ticket management, assignment and tracking with Jira.  • Use IntelliJ IDEA to manage code editing, Unit testing and server implementation. Software Developer Bravo Technologies LLC - McAllen, TX November 2011 to January 2019 *  Discussed specifications and scope of project with clients.  *  Performed requirements analysis, project work plan and identified deliverables.  *  Worked on multiple Projects utilizing Java 8 using the Spring framework running on tomcat 9.0.16, JDK 1.8.0, JSP 2.3 connected to a MySQL database.  *  Design and develop business websites in HTML 5, CSS3 & JavaScript with supporting PHP 7.1.3, jQuery 1.12.1.  *  Designed and implemented open-source eCommerce platforms for online retailers.  *  Implemented Google WebTools for monitoring analytics data, captcha, charts and optimization APIs.  • Designed and Developed Custom Web Applications complete with dashboards, user creation, task management and monitoring and graphing, permissions and action logs implemented with PHP, tied to a MySQL 5.6.x database with a DaOGenerator Software and Technology Developer Virtual Business Office - McAllen, TX January 2018 to November 2018 *  Developed leads tracking web application for sales team. Integrated schedulers for sales leads management, client information, account data, Google charts API and report building with PDF exporter. Technologies used are HTML 5, CSS3, JavaScript, PHP 7.1.3, jQuery 1.12.1 and MySQL 5.6.  *  Developed review system for commercial use. Used to keep track of peer practices and performance. Technologies used are HTML 5, CSS3, JavaScript, PHP 7.1.3, jQuery 1.12.1 and MySQL 5.6.  *  Lead the digital department the company which consisted of managing and supporting all software matters and strategic planning for online marketing.   * Test and troubleshoot code to locate inconsistencies and promote efficiency.   * Performed presentations and trainings of new/improved products to clients and co-workers Adjunct Instructor Bravo Technologies LLC - McAllen, TX August 2016 to May 2017 1  • Taught IT133 Software Applications twice a week.  • Challenged students to learn and apply their knowledge to situations in real life. Taught them  the benefits of learning and the competitive advantage of learning these Applications.  • Encouraged students to be active members in a community and to value the advantages of having a good education and making an positive impact in their endeavors. Software Developer Hamer Enterprises - McAllen, TX October 2008 to November 2011 *  Developed applications for different counties for tax assessment. Using Java to handle back end business logic and JSP, XHTML, CSS for the UI.  *  Designed layout, style and formatting of web application GUI with JSF and Primefaces.  *  Created and Managed SQL databases on DB2 system.  *  Showcased updates and improvements done to web app to clients.  Create manuals and documentation for projects while tracking milestones and deadlines. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science in implementation and design University of Texas Pan-American - Edinburg, TX 2003 to 2008 Skills VISUAL STUDIO, PHP (6 years), JAVA (5 years), jQuery (6 years), MYSQL (6 years), Javascript, HTML 5, Git, CSS, Spring, Hibernate, JSP, Java J2Ee, J2Ee Additional Information I am a problem solving individual. I enjoy being given a problem and see how efficiently I can  come up with an answer or solution. I am a great researcher and fast learner. I'm not afraid to  tackle new problems and step out of my comfort zone. I'm great working in teams or alone. I  have great work ethic and integrity and am very capable of doing any job, just put me to the  test. I am a giver and always bring value to my company.    Software Languages: PHP, Java, javascript, C++, Swift, Angularjs, SQL, CSS, xml, jQuery, jsp,  html.    Software Development Tools: Eclipse, MySQL, Visual Studio, DB2, Xcode, DaoGen, Apache  tomcat, easyPHP devserver, CorelDraw, Photoshop, Illustrator.    Bilingual: English and Spanish ( fluent in both.)