Job Seeker • Around 11+ years of IT experience in system analysis, design, development, testing using Microsoft Technologies.  • Experience in adopting structured development process and has delivered systems on time by meeting the client's expectations.  • An excellent team player, problem solver and a quick learner of new technologies.  • Experience in development of Web-based application using Asp.net, Asp.net MVC, HTML, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, Angular, Angular JS, WCF & Web API, Asp.net Core API, Windows Service, Console Applications.  • Knowledge on database like SqlServer 2008  • Good communication and interpersonal skills.  • Genuinely enjoys working as a team and solving problems collaboratively or independently. Work Experience United Health Group November 2018 to Present Clients: Optum Workers Compensation USA  Software / Tools: AspNetCore 2.1 Web API, SQL Server 2008,  Visual Studio 2017  Duration: Nov 2018 to Till Date    This application provides the eligibility information to Vital Point(or any other clients) so that the Adjuster can take decisions on Pharmacy and Ancillary for a claimant.  Initially Vitalpoint used to trigger UNIVERSE services for Pharmacy eligibility information only, With this application, both Pharmacy and Ancillary eligibility will be provided in a single call by eliminating separate calls for Pharmacy and Ancillary by increasing the performance.    Responsibilities:  • POC development and demonstration  • Involved in application solution and deployment  • Assigning and estimated the work  • Involved in guiding the team members  • Involved in Analysis, development, designing and bug fixing.    Project3: SRE - State Reporting Engine  Clients: Optum Workers Compensation USA  Software / Tools: .Net 4.5, Asp.net, Batch Jobs, MS Sql Server 2008 United Health Group November 2018 to Present State Reporting Engine is an application used for Medical EDI Reporting. Medical EDI Reporting requires that all actions by an insurer or self-insured employer, which result in the payment or denial of a transaction which needs to be reported to the state division of Workers Compensation. This application reports EDI data for Florida, Texas, California, Oregon states.    Responsibilities:  • Understanding the User Stories  • Involved Sprint planning and estimation  • Involved in daily scrum calls to communicate the status and to discuss if any gaps found with onshore team  • Involved in writing the business logic and creating the database objects  • Involved in conducting unit testing and code review  • Involve in providing the KT to new joiners in the Team  • Involved Sprint planning and estimation  • Involved in Analysis, development, designing and bug fixing.    Project4: MRS  Clients: Optum Workers Compensation USA  Software / Tools: .Net 4.0, SQL Server 2008, WCF  Visual Studio 2010, Batch Jobs United Health Group February 2018 to Present is an application used for delivering the prescribed medications to the claimant through mail. MRS system is loaded with the claims for mail order from UNIVERSE by triggering MRS Web-Service to retrieve/update/insert data, as the actual claim load process happens at PICK. This application communicates with VitalPoint and vice versa., to facilitate the Adjuster Mail order decisions.    Responsibilities:  • POC development and demonstration  • Involved in application solution  • Assigning and estimated the work  • Involved in guiding the team members  • Involved in Analysis, development, designing and bug fixing.    Project5: PCP Auto Assignment  Clients: UHG USA  Software / Tools: WCF Services 4.0, SQL Server 2008, ASP.net 4.0,  Visual Studio 2010 Hyderabad as Project Lead United Health Group - Hyderabad, ANDHRA PRADESH, IN January 2012 to Present Worked in iGate Global Solutions - Hyderabad as a Senior Software Engineer from 8th July 2010 to 31 December 2011.  • Worked in MagnaQuest Technologies Ltd., - Hyderabad as a Software Engineer from 9th July 2007 to 1st July 2010.    Achievements:  • Received UHG Sustaining edge Award twice for my best contribution in the year of 2012 and 2013.  • Received UHG Team Excellence Award and Sustaining edge Award in the year of 2018. Senior Software Engineer July 2010 to Present SalesEDGE is a multi-project program to build a new platform for applications utilized by Sales and Marketing, in the retail tobacco space. SalesEDGE will include Offline Application, Online Application, Legacy Replacement (FSI, WSL, TPCS, POS, and NAMES etc) and a new Sales Data Foundation (SDF). Objective of this new SalesEDGE platform is to replace the existing multiple systems used for Sales Department, as multiple systems causes the maintenance overhead.  Sales Online application is used to maintain the Employee, Territory, Retail Stores, Price and Product Promotion details, ability to transfer stores between territories, System help manual/documentation will be maintained by Sales Business area.    Responsibilities:  • Onsite and Offshore regular calls to fill the gaps in the existing functionality or if any change request comes.  • Preparation and Execution of Unit Test Cases  • Preparation of Low Level Design Document.  • Developing stored procedures.  • Conducting code review and peer review.  • Fixing bugs within the time limits based on the priority.    Project8: Accounting & Finance Module  Software / Tools: .NET 2.0, C#, ASP.NET 2.0, Javascript, Oracle,  Visual Studio 2005, Crystal Reports XI.  Team size: 10 United Health Group February 2018 to October 2018 Clients: Optum Workers Compensation USA  Software / Tools: .Net 4.6, RightFax Com API, SQL Server 2008,  Visual Studio 2017, Batch Jobs  Duration: Feb 2018 to October 2018.    eFax application - Automated communication of authorization decisions to pharmacy by integrating RightFax third party API component by sending eFax.    Responsibilities:  • POC development and demonstration  • Involved in application solution  • Assigning and estimated the work  • Involved in guiding the team members  • Involved in Analysis, development, designing and bug fixing. Developer United Health Group June 2014 to August 2015 The Primary care Physician is an application used by the Optum Health Delivery Team to assist patients by providing information about receiving provider care. The Primary care Physician will allow the user to perform a provider search based on the patient's necessary criteria like distance, family history, age, gender etc., which will return information about the providers who are nearby their place. This will help the patient to receive the right type of care in the right amount of time based on their situation.    Responsibilities:  • Understanding the User Stories  • Involved Sprint planning and estimation  • Involved in daily scrum calls to communicate the status and to discuss if any gaps found with onshore team  • Involved in creating and testing (using soap UI) WCF Services  • Involved in writing the business logic and creating the database objects  • Involved in conducting unit testing and code review  • Involve in providing the KT to new joiners in the Team  • Involved Sprint planning and estimation  • Involved in Analysis, development, designing and bug fixing.    Project6: LifeLens  Clients: UHG USA  Software / Tools: C#, ASP.NET 4.0, WCF Services 4.0,  JQuery, SQL Server 2008, Visual Studio 2010. Developer United Health Group July 2012 to December 2013 Life Lens is a Video and Image Capturing system which contains a mobile application and a web portal. Mobile application enables field nurses to capture both wound and psychiatric case of a patient along with his/ her details and submit it for the review by the reviewers. This application has Instant video and image creation option which include the ability to assign the video to an encounter. There is also a web portal which enables the reviewers to review the cases submitted by the nurses through the mobile application. This contains a feature called reconciliation which enables the nurses to correct the information that is recorded wrongly by mistake. From this application we can view both images and videos assigned to the encounters.    Responsibilities:  • Understanding the Functional Specification  • Involved in creating and consuming WCF Rest Services  • Involved in designing the UI pages using jquery and Asp.net  • Involved in writing the business logic and creating the database objects  • Involved in conducting unit testing and code review  • Involve in providing the KT to new joiners in the Team  • Involved Sprint planning and estimation  • Involved in Analysis, development, designing and bug fixing.    Project7: Sales Edge Platform (SeP).  Clients: Altria USA  Software / Tools: .NET 4.0, C#, ASP.NET 4.0, WCF Services 4.0,  JQuery, SQL Server 2008, Visual Studio 2010. NeoMQS October 2007 to June 2010 is a comprehensive Customer Management and Billing System that offers a unified view of the subscriber with billing at its core. NeoMQS is a modular, flexible and scalable solution. It enables service providers to effectively provision, rate, accurately bill and engage in customer care for all their basic and advanced services such as, but not limited to ISP and VOIP.    Accounting module maintains all transactions information. It allows keeping track of overall accounting operations. It keeps track customer wise, currency wise, Operational Entity wise debit and credit account balance for accounting years. It involves adding and modifying accounting years and accounting periods. It includes in generating Journal Voucher incase of any wrong financial entry. It also includes pay-in-slip functionality to maintain the record of the actual pay-in-slip transaction performed in the bank.    Responsibilities:  • Preparation and Execution of Unit Test Cases  • Preparation of Low Level Design Document.  • Fixing bugs within the time limits based on the priority.  • Providing support to Delivery team.  • Developing stored procedures.  • Presenting demos to the Quality and Delivery teams.  • Designed Crystal Reports related to this module Command Buttons September 2007 to November 2007 Software / Tools: .NET 2.0, C#, ASP.NET 2.0, Oracle,  Visual Studio 2005, Crystal Reports XI.  Team size: 1  Duration: Sep 2007 - Nov 2007    Command buttons feature has been provided with a goal to add buttons on required page. This feature allows generating the reports in desired formats (word, PDF, Excel) from a crystal report. This feature has been provided in-order to support client specific format. For example: Different clients can have different forms of receipt printing after taking the payment.    Responsibilities:  • Preparation and Execution of Unit Test Cases  • Preparation of Low Level Design Document.  • Developing stored procedures.  • Fixing bugs within the time limits based on the priority.  • Providing support to Delivery team.  • Presenting demos to the Quality and Delivery teams.  • Designed Crystal Reports related to this module Education Master of Computer Applications in Computer Applications Indira Gandhi National Open University 2006 Bachelor of Computer Applications in Computer Applications Osmania University 2002 Education A.P St Domnics College 1999 SSC in Education A.P Krishi High school 1997 Additional Information Technical Skills:    Languages: C++, C#, VB.NET  Frame Work: Dot NET Framework 2.0,4.0,4.6,4.7,  ASPNETCORE 2.1, WCF  Database: MS SQL 2008  Web Technologies: ASP.NET, ASP.NET MVC, WEB API, ADO.Net,  ASP.NET Core  Reports: Crystal reports XI  Scripting: JQuery, Java script, Angular JS, Angular  Configuration Management: TFS, SVN