Sr. Mobile Developer Sr. Mobile <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Mobile Developer - Oxford Health Plan New York, NY • Over 9+ years of experience as a software developer including about 4 years as an iOS developer in designing & developing Rich User Interface applications, integrating with various Databases, Client-Server applications and as a Java developer.    • Always on the lookout for new technologies to enhance software products. Currently investigating and deploying several iOS apps using TouchDB (CouchDB for iOS) to provide smooth customer experience in offline and facilitate real-time collaborations.    • Published a book on iOS development. iPhone SDK 3 Programming: Advanced Mobile Development for Apple iPhone and iPod touch (Wiley). Available here.    • More than ten years of work experience in the area of software development, business analysis, programming, system development, testing, scientific research, and software management, designing and developing mobile and desktop applications using iterative methodology and overall Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC).    • Expert in developing offline mobile collaborative applications that sync with Couch DB NOSQL cloud databases.    • Expert in Objective-C, Java, Cocoa/Cocoa Touch with rich understanding of frameworks, memory management, multi-threading, best practices, and development tools.    • Developing and Maintaining functionalities on iOS with Swift    • Produce fully functional mobile applications writing clean code.    • Experience developing mobile Graphical User Interface using Interface Builder, Android SDK, Backbone.js, HTML, DHTML, CSS, Java Script, and AJAX.    • Perform system analysis and debugging system errors.    • Developed applications for almost all the departments, which helped me learn more and acquire knowledge on basic business processes.    • Created and customized views, table views, tab bars and navigation bars which are some basic functionality in a multi-view application.    • Expertise in Object Oriented Programming language like Objective-C, C++ and Swift.    • Extensive experience in dealing with both REST as well as SOAP based web services.    • Experienced in using third party libraries and GitHub. Work Experience Sr. Mobile Developer Oxford Health Plan - Philadelphia, PA December 2015 to Present Oxford Health Plans, a UnitedHealthcare company, offers health care benefits to employers and individuals primarily in New York, New Jersey, and Connecticut.  Oxford's commercial insured products and services include traditional health maintenance organizations, preferred and exclusive provider organizations, point-of-service plans and consumer-driven health plans. In addition, Oxford also offers Medicare plans and third-party administration of employer-funded benefits plans    Roles & Responsibilities:  * Built main application in Python, Django leveraging technologies such as Tastypie,Backbone.js, and Celery  * Developed client GUI modules using Swing, Java script and Flash.  * Used Adobe Photoshop and CorelDraw to computerized drawing for client firms  * Used Vector Graphics and CorelDraw, programs used to render graphics for printing.  * Developing webkit browser based mobile app using technologies like Sencha touch, DOJO and PhoneGap.  * Designed interactive ASP.NET MVC views using JQuery, HTML5, CSS3, jQuery and AJAX to provide excellent user experience.  * Effectively used PHP, MySQL, JavaScript (jQuery), HTML5, and CSS3  * Used JavaScript & Titanium tools. Implemented the entire Prototype of email app, including SQL Lite database schema and query design, JS based HTTP request to fetch email data and UI design & implementation.  * HTML, CSS, Cordova/Phonegap, Objective¬C and JavaMobile application development with Titanium SDK.  * Developed and implemented many PhoneGap and Titanium applications along with Java and Objective-C plug-ins for iPad, iPhone and Android platforms.  * Develop mobile time tracking user interface for iPhone and Android using PhoneGap library  * Using sencha touch for development to find relevant people for the same social Networking Websites.  * Created Mobile Web solutions using technologies like CSS Media Queries, Twitter BootStrap,Ionic and JQUERY Mobile Framework.  * Developed mobile app for book reading capability with HTML5 Sencha and online services with Flash/Flex.  * developed web pages in Responsive Design using Bootstrap and CSS3 Media Queries to adapt to the changing environment.  * Designed layout using standards based HTML5 and CSS3 working with jQuery/jQuery  * mobile in conjuntion with a proprietary CMS  * Worked on the modernization of a legacy and outsourced. Technologies used were Backbone.js, Can.js, and JQuery  * Worked with Core Location and MapKit framework for the purpose of showing current locations on a map on iPhone applications.  * Updating and upgrading Ipad through apple software.  * Developed step-by-step training resources for iPad IOS technology used.  * Assisted in the logistical parameters of the iPad deployment process by keeping a daily count of total iPads and monitoring the shipping methods.  * Developed a kids coloring Android application to allow any downloaded coloring book template to be colored.  * Developed an Android keyboard entry game with different selectable skins in a dynamic drawing threaded environment.  * Created mobile applications for Blackberry, Android, Windows , and iPhone mobile phones using Java.  * Developed applications using a combination of Java with Android SDK, and Java with BlackBerry SDK.  * Writing and Optimizing MySQL Queries and connect queries to PHP.  * Inaugurate the start-up operational and management for the preservation, and future educational access of the respective collections of two researchers (Wharton and Ruby).    Environment:  Titanium, PhoneGap, HTML5, CSS3, Jquery, Backbone.js, Flash, CorelDraw, iPhone, iPad, Android, Windows Phone, Blackberry, Tablet, Spring, Hibernate, Struts, MYSQL, REST, Web Services, Eclipse, Weblogic, Subversion, Selenium, Agile, JSP, Web, SOA, PHP Sr. Mobile Developer Golden State Bancorp Mortgage - New York, NY October 2014 to November 2015 Golden State Bancorp operates as the bank holding company for Golden State Bank that provides personal and business banking services in Los Angeles and Orange Counties, and Inland Empire in California. The company's deposit products include noninterest-bearing and interest-bearing checking accounts, commercial analysis checking accounts, money market accounts, savings accounts, certificates of deposit, and individual retirement accounts.    Roles & Responsibilities:  * Developed frontend widgets in Backbone.js and Handlebars.js.  * Developed iPhone and Android mobile app using Sencha Touch and Phonegap framework  * Created cross-platform mobile application prototypes with Adobe Air and PhoneGap  * Developed mobile app for selling medical devices using HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, jQuery, jQTouch, and PhoneGap.  * Developed portions of HTML5-based game for use in an online gambling promotion.  * Created cross-platform mobile application prototypes with Adobe Air and PhoneGap  * Designed, development, testing and implementation of WEB applications using Sencha Touchframework.  * Utilizing CSS, HTML5, JS, JQuery, JQTouch, AJAX.  * Designed and developed the application to be responsive for desktop, mobile and tablets using Twitter Bootstrap (HTML5, CSS, and JavaScript).  * Used CSS3 to effectively style the layout.  * Design front end with css3 and HTML coding.  * Created a hybrid application that uses Dojo Mobile.  * Developed components for email and link sharing of documents and files for a Content Management System using Backbone.js and jQuery.  * Maintained and developed Mantis bug management system for internal usage, using MySQL/PHP, Bootstrap, Backbone.js.  * Design and development of a proof-of-concept real-time notification system using Node.js and Socket.IO  * Designed and implementing a Node.js based mobile text and voice messaging app and its cloud backend.  * Used subclipse plug-in with Flash builder for configuration management.  * Developed User Interface with effects and animations using Java Script, Ajax, JQuery, Flex, JSF, JSP, Flash and HTML.  * Developed UI panels using MyFaces, XHTML, CSS, XSLT and FLEX.  * Developed a part of the front End using Flex Parsley framework in Flex and Actionscript.  * Developed a Jump applicaton in Silverlight for AT&T Network connections.  * Developed Coding the presentation layer using WPF and Silverlight.  * Design and development of Custom Components and Custom Eventsusing ActionScriptto use across the application.  * Coded several large Flash-based Actionscript 3 applications for financial firms.  * Develop iPad & iphone web based applications as well as native applications with tools such as CSS3 and Titanium Appcelerator.  * iPhone mobile app and Mobile Site development using Titanium Appcelrator, X-code, jQuery, jQuery-Mobile, Python supported by pool of APIs  * Making 3D models and programming 3D games for Android tablet and Apple Ipads.  * Used SQLite for local data storage in Android application.  * Design and written Unit test cases and scenarios for Windows Phone  * Development mobile web application for Android, iOS and BlackBerry Device  * Develop & design mobile banking client for J2ME & Blackberry Models  * Designed and implementing a Node.js based mobile text and voice messaging app and its cloud ,,backend.    Environment:  PhoneGap, HTML5, CSS3, Dojo, node.js, Backbone.js, Flash, Flex, iPhone, Android, Windows phone, Spring, Hibernate, Struts, MYSQL, APACHE CXF, REST, JSON, Web Services, Eclipse, Weblogic, Visual Source Safe, Selenium, Scrum, JSP, GWT, JMS, PHP, Ruby , wordpress , drupal, .Net , ASP Sr. Android Developer Daimler-Chrysler - New York, NY April 2013 to September 2014 Daimler-Benz AG in Germany and Chrysler Corporation in the USA signed a merger contract to form DaimlerChrysler AG. In order to optimize the website and for continuous improvement Daimler uses cookies. You agree to the usage of cookies when you continue using this site. These cookies are essential for websites and their features to work properly. Without these cookies, services such as the vehicle configurator may be disabled.    Roles & Responsibilities:  * Developing webkit browser based mobile app using technologies like Sencha touch, DOJO and PhoneGap  * Mobile-Web, Enyo R&D, created 8 PhoneGap Android, iOS, Window-Mobile plug-ins  * Using sencha touch for development to find relevant people for the same social Networking Websites  * Developed a multi-platform mobile application to visualize gene expression database using Sencha Touch  * Design and development of iphone and Samsung BADA based applications  * Developed webkit browser based mobile app using technologies like Sencha touch, DOJO and PhoneGap  * Used jQTouch to handle touch events on iOS and Honeycomb.  * Design, development, testing and implementation of WEB applications using Sencha touch framework.  * Developed web pages using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Angular.js, JQuery, AJAX and JSON.  * Used JSP, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, CSS3, and HTML5 as data and presentation layer technology.  * Created custom javascript libraries using backbone.js and jQuery.  * Developed back-end messaging infrastructure for real-time web application in Javascript,jQuery, node.js, redis.  * Builted on Node.js with Express, Backbone.js, Handlebars and PhoneGap  * Developed a hybrid HTML5/Flash responsive RIA framework for Organic using the Create.js Suite, Backbone.js, jQuery,  * Developed the presentation layer (UI) using JSP, Tag libraries, HTML, Flash, CSS and client validations using JavaScript.  * Developed stylesheets for the flex controls and components.  * Developed presentation tier by using Adobe Flex, Cairngorm and BlazeDS.  * Develop Silverlight application using Onion/PRISM Architecture.  * Developed Silverlight front-end application to access the web service  * Developed various Components in Flex using ActionScript to re-use on UI side. Implemented events/commands using Cairngorm library to achieve MVC at UI side.  * Developed iPhone and Android mobile app using Sencha Touch and Phonegap framework  * Created an iPhone application using Appeclerator's Titanium and released it to the Apple app store  * Developed new products, building multi-lingual websites, iPhone and Android applications, and maintaining older code.  * Worked on full software development cycle from concept through deployment for iOS and Android.  * Developed MVVM phone application using Windows Phone  * Developed Windows Vista gadgets using Silverlight and JavaScript.  * Used BlackBerry JME JDE to test software on the device  * Developed many JSP pages, used Dojo in JavaScript Library, jQuery UI for client side validation.  * Developing the web applications majorly in Node.js, Angular.js, JavaScript, CSS3 and html5.  * Designed and developed the User Interface using JSP, HTML 5, CSS 3, Bootstrap, AngularJS, Node.js Java Script, Web API, Microsoft BizTalk, Razor, Designed and developed user interface using Visual Studio and ASP.Net.  * Developing web application with Backbone.js and PHP CodeIgniter framework.  * Used subclipse plug-in with Flash builder for configuration management  * Developed a C# and Silverlight front-end application to access the web service  * Developed Silverlight add-on applications for use with CRM 2011 solutions  * Built up a client base and experience in the web field. Maily HTML/CSS and WordPress.  * Creating Clients and Server for Java to establish communications between 'Online' client windows and different servers created using both C++ and Java    ENVIRONMENT:  PhoneGap, Sencha Touch , HTML5, CSS3, Dojo Mobile, node.js, Backbone.js, Flash , Flex, iPhone, Android , Windows Phone 7,Blackberry , Spring, Hibernate , MYSQL, APACHE CXF, REST, JSON, Web Services, Eclipse, Weblogic , Git,GitHub, Scrum, JSP, SERVLET , ANT, GWT, PHP, Ruby, wordpress, ASP, C and C++. Software Developer Nexan Inc - Seattle, WA April 2011 to March 2013 Roles and Responsibilities:  * Design UI screens using JSP, CSS, Struts Framework, Flash, Java Script and HTML.  * Implemented Change Requests and Enhancements using Flex and Java technologies  * Develop Silverlight application using Onion/PRISM Architecture.  * Maintaining and debugging Android project that communicates with proprietary  Bluetooth devices  * Developing a multi platform phone app for iOS, Android, Blackberry and Windows Phone 7 using PhoneGap and Sencha Touch.  * Involved in doing AGILE (SCRUM) practices and planning of sprint attending daily agile (SCRUM) meetings and SPRINT retrospective meetings to produce quality deliverables within time.  * Developed and Implemented WebServices and used Spring Framework.  * Implemented Persistence layer using Hibernate to interact with the Oracle database, Used Hibernate Framework for object relational mapping and persistence.  * MySQL to access data in the database at different Levels.  * Have used the Apache CXF to build web service clients    Environment:  jQuery, Entity Framework, SQL Server , AJAX, Javascript, CSS, REST/SOAP, HTML5, CSS3, Dojo Mobile , node.js, Backbone.js, MVC Software Developer Lucent Technologies - Seattle, WA April 2009 to March 2011 Lucent Technologies, Inc., was an American multinational telecommunications equipment company headquartered in Murray Hill, New Jersey, in the United States. It was established on September 30, 1996, through the divestiture of the former AT&T Technologies business unit of AT&T Corporation    Roles and Responsibilities:  * Used JavaScript for client side validation.  * Developed the workflow interfaces using JSPs, CSS, Struts Tiles layouts and the request processors using Dispatch Action and Action  * Created Dialog boxes using DOJO for better look and feel.  * Developed many JSP pages, used Dojo in JavaScript Library, jQuery UI for client side validation.  * Developing the web applications majorly in Node.js, C#, ASP.NET, PHP, Angular.js, JavaScript, CSS3 and html5.  * Created reports and dashboards on SQL Server Reporting Services 2012 and SharePoint 2010 (PerformancePoint Services and Excel Services).  * Designed applications based on Kimball and COBIT specifications and generated projects documentation (Database OLTP and OLAP, Data Transformation phase [ETL Packages] and Business Reports).    Environment:  SQL Server, AJAX, Javascript, CSS, REST, Javascript, CSS, REST/SOAP, SOAP, Crystal Reports, Agile, Silverlight Education Masters in Computer in engineering University of New York