Application Developer Application <span class="hl">Developer</span> Application Developer- Looking for Opportunitites in Oracle Agile PLM for Process/Microsoft ASP.Net C# MVC Dunwoody, GA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Application Developer Accenture - Atlanta, GA January 2019 to Present ·      PLM Techno functional consultant  ·      Technical Reviewer   • Interacting with the customers for system study, requirements gathering, analysis and scoping.  • Configuring the PLM product to perform according to the solution design and support end to end design and coordination of the requirements to the development team.  • Explore the P4P capabilities and enable the P4P extensions based on the requirements.  ·      Interaction with functional teams or direct users and provide the estimations.  • Provide timely status report to the customer on project progress, issue identification, problem resolution  • Provide customers with direction and recommendations on the best practice use of the Agile product to achieve their objectives  • Recognize and escalate issues which impact the project timelines  • Support and/or guide team through problem definition, issue identification and work plan development using issue-based problem solving principles to help our clients maximize the performance.  ·      Conduct demos with the client to ensure alignment with the requirement and the solution implemented.  ·      Creation of Process diagrams, Logical and Physical design documents.  ·      Diagnose and resolve errors and issues.  ·      Code Review of artifacts done by the team.   ·      Plan and allocate tasks to the team members.  ·      Creating Prototypes for new requirements, design and implementation  ·      Building .NET custom classes (called validators) to implement customization in different specs of Prodika Modules(mainly specs belonging to GSM, ADMIN, SCRM, RPT modules)  ·      Data migration (loading of custom section data into specs) using VERDANT tool for PLM4P.   • Update the resource usage, issues and risks in Jira tool.       Senior Consultant Coca-Cola Refreshments January 2010 to March 2017 Software Engineer Sapient Corporate June 2009 to January 2010 Software Engineer Compassites software solutions December 2006 to June 2009 Education Bachelor's Visveshwariah Technology of University Skills Asp.Net (8 years), C# (8 years), Oracle Agile PLM for Process (6 years), SQL (3 years), MuleSoft (Less than 1 year), XML (1 year), MVC (1 year), Sql Server, HTML, Jquery, Javascript Certifications/Licenses MuleSoft Certified API Associate Assessments Management & Leadership Skills: Impact & Influence — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to adapt their leadership style to accomplish goals using rational or emotional appeal. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/ax1ks0yiukucbbnb Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.