Full Stack .Net Developer Full Stack .Net <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack .Net Developer - AbleForce San Marcos, CA • 11+ years of IT experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Implementation and Testing of Client-Server and N-tier Architectures in Finance, Healthcare and Insurance and experience developing web-based and client server applications with .NET & Microsoft technologies.  • Strong Object-Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD) and C#, VB.NET Programming skills.  • Sound experience in Microsoft .Net technologies like .NET Framework (2.0, 3.0, 3.5, 4.0) C# (5.0/4.0/3.0) with MS Server (SQL 2014/2012/2008/2008R2), ASP.NET, ADO.NET, VB.NET, .Net Web Services, MVC 3.0/4.0/5.0 FrameworkAJAX, jQuery, and Windows Communication Foundation (WCF), Win Forms, Windows Presentation Foundation(WPF)  • Profound working knowledge in Microsoft Office SharePoint server 2013/2010.  • Proficient with Web Page Development using HTML, XML, XSLT, CSS, Angular JS, JavaScript, jQuery and Ajax.  • Expertise in OOPS, SOLID principles of OO Design, SOA, REST, DI, IOC and Design Patterns.  • Created custom wizards in K2 using SDK and Visual Studio Template.  • Good hands on Experience in database related work primarily creating complex Stored Procedure, Views, Triggers, Functions using PL/SQL, T-SQL.  • Experience in designing using Object Oriented Programming (OOPS) Skills such as Encapsulation, Abstraction, Inheritance, and Polymorphism.  • Expertise in developing applications using .NET application building blocks (Data access, Exception Handling, State management).  • Experienced in Language Integrated Query (LINQ), LINQtoSQL, LINQtoObjects and Entity Framework.  • Expertise in developing and consuming of windows services and web services both SOAP & RESTful API using ASP.Net Web API.  • Developed new MVVM-based WPF pages for add, delete retrieve operations  • Strong Knowledge of Database design and development and experience in writing SQL queries, views, Triggers, Stored Procedures in SQL Server, Oracle, and MS-Access.  • Experience in deploying, configuring, and maintaining web sites and services on IIS 7.0/6.0  • Good Knowledge on Java web services RESTful, SOAP web services.  • Expertise in all stages of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including analysis, design, development, testing, Maintenance of Client/Server and web based applications, coder refactoring and migration.  • Hands on experience in AGILE, SDLC Software development methodologies and test-driven development, developing use cases sequence diagrams and class diagrams in UML.  • Experience in building SILVERLIGHT 4.0/3.0 applications using .NET. Involved in building a rich web experiences using SILVERLIGHT, JavaScript, and Expression blend.  • Vast Knowledge in source control systems such as Subversion, Visual Source Safe and TFS.  • Ability to work independently and efficiently, managing time-lines and expectations along with learning new concepts quickly.  • Quality team player with vast experience in onsite and offshore project modals with Strong analytical and problem-solving skills coupled with excellent written, verbal, and interpersonal communication skills. Work Experience Full Stack .Net Developer AbleForce - San Marcos, CA February 2019 to Present Responsibilities:  • Gaining the sub system knowledge and understanding its business requirement.  • Have done impact analysis to identify components affected with the enhancement change and documented the implementation plan for affected components.  • Have done changes to the database by adding additional columns and displayed it on the asp page.  • Migrated the whole application from classic asp (vb.net) to Asp.net 4.5  • Added SSL certificated to the web application  • Added the ajax toolkit and implemented various Ajax features and user level validations to the application.  • Implemented the SHA-256 encryption technique to encrypt the user data.  • Used TDES technique to encrypt and decrypt data while coming from the UI to the Database.  • Created a new application from scratch using the asp.net 4.5 and implemented the WCF services in it to obtain response from the client side.  • Built, deployed, and monitored the SSIS packages for the data transfer.  • Applied the AGILE methodology of the SDLC which include Business layer, Service layer and data layer for the application.  • Linked the application to the business logic in mainframes and brought validation responses from the mainframes.  • Have performed UNIT Testing and obtained the UTR.  • Have deployed the code to the System test (SIT), UAT and PROD environments and provided support to the applications    Environment: Windows, ASP. Net, WCF, C#, ADO.NET, Visual Studio 2015, SQL Server 2012/2014, SSIS, HTML, JavaScript, AJAX, CSS, VSS, UML, XML, IIS 8.0 and SDLC. Sr.Net Developer Depository Trust & Clearing Corporation - Jersey City, NJ August 2016 to January 2019 Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed different modules, classes using C# and designed GUI part with help of .Net framework 3.0  • Extensively worked on developing the complete web application to serve all the applications for their different flows.  • Used ASP.NET web controls and HTML control in the design of web pages.  • Designed, modeled multi-threaded, enterprise n-tier software agent using WCF web service in 3.0 framework.  • Designed WCF service contract for validating the user input.  • Extensively used ASP.NET web server controls like Grid View for displaying the records.  • Experienced in developing and consuming Web Services and n-tier web applications.  • Used JSON, JQuery for the Client side to pass the parameters for hand shake across applications and for client side AJAX call, validations.  • Used ADO.NET for data interaction between the web application and the Database using Data reader, Datasets, and Data Adapters controls.  • Used JavaScript and ASP.NET for AJAX implementation and client side validations.  • Used TFS for Versioning control and configuration management  • Followed agile methodology to develop the application.  • Involved in setting up and developing application onto SIT, Staging and Production environments.    Environment: Windows, .Net Core/GO, WCF, C#, ADO.NET, Visual Studio 2013/2015, SQL Server 2012/2014, SSRS, HTML, JavaScript, jQuery, CSS, UML, XML, IIS 8.0 and SDLC. Sr .Net Developer Nationwide Advisory - Louisville, KY March 2014 to July 2016 Responsibilities:  • Understanding the requirement from the business users and preparing specification for the requirement.  • Implemented Authentication and membership using ASP.NET Login controls and stored the Login information in the SQL Server Database. Net Developer Fundriver - Cincinnati, OH November 2012 to February 2014 Environment: .Net Framework 4.0, C#, ASP.NET, ADO.NET, Silverlight, WCF, WPF, XAML, MVVM, MVC 3, XHTML, HTML, Javascript, Jquery, XML, XSL, XSLT, XAML, T-SQL, SQL Server 2008, LINQ, Entity-Framework, SSRS, Oracle 11g, TOAD, PL/SQL, Telerik Controls, JSON, Visual Source Safe 6.0, LINQ, Test Directory, MS Excel, TFS, IIS(6.0), Nunit    Fundriver Cincinnati, OH Nov 2012 - Feb 2014  .Net Developer    Responsibilities:  • Development was done using agile methodology with daily scrums, paired programming using TDD and continuous integration in the SDLC process.  • Actively involved in design and development using ASP.NET Master Pages, Themes, Skins, JavaScript, XML, CSS, and Visual Studio 2012.  • We had used MVC Object oriented design pattern for development of Asp Pages using Kendo Controls.  • Developed and released MVVM based app utilizing commanding  • Used Telluric Controls like Rad Filtering, Rad Grid view, Rad Autocomplete Box, etc.  • Developed runtime animations using Silverlight 5.0.  • Extensively used Silverlight /WPF page layouts, animated transition controls and key-frame animations.  • Incorporated different WPF controls and Dev Express controls. Worked on validation and converters in WPF.  • Provided services like change tracking, identity resolution, lazy loading, and query translation using Entity Framework's ORM implementation to focus on the application-specific business logic rather than the data access fundamentals.  • Participated in a fully scalable mobile application using WEB API, C#, Entity Framework ORM and SQL Server  • Designed large numbers of Windows Presentation Foundation (WPF) Forms, Custom Controls and User Controls.  • Worked with Expression Blend for extensive graphics, colors, and Gradient.  • Converted some ASP pages to Angular JS pages - Household Application.  • Used .Net assemblies for building forms and reports, linked tables with Access using SQL Server 2012 as Database.  • Developed the REST Full web services using Jersey Framework, Rest Easy Framework.  • Developed WCF services to enable effective communication.  • Used WCF services to store files in a repository, using a file storage service and hosted the service using multiple end points.  • Used TFS (Team Foundation Server) to check-in and check-out for the objects developed.  • Unit testing has implemented for every build.    Environment: Visual Studio 2012, C#, ASP.NET 4.5, WCF, Java Script, JQUERY, SILVERLIGHT, Expression Blend, Angular JS, CSS, HTML, IIS, LINQ, XML, SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS), TFS. Net Developer Waystar Health - Louisville, KY May 2009 to October 2012 Responsibilities:  • Involved in design and implementation of the web Application.  • Working with Iterative Agile Programming Methodologies, Scrum, and Test-driven development (TDD).  • The application was developed using the Model View Control4(MVC) architecture that gives a clear separation of representation of information from the user's interaction with it.  • Used C#, ASP.NET, AJAX Toolkit controls like Script Manager, Update Panel, and Modal Popup Extender within some web pages.  • Used Enterprise Libraries to connect Database (Data Access Application Block), to log on application used (logging Application Block), to handle exception used (exception Handling application block).  • Successfully developed different Web Pages using HTML 5, JavaScript, and CSS.  • Designed database in SQL and created stored procedures, functions, views, Cursors and done Indexing to reduce complexity of front-end SQL queries and triggers to enforce entity relationships.  • Involved in the production support for Vehicle Insurance Quote System (VIQS).  • Used LINQ to SQL, LINQ to XML and LINQ to Objects for retrieving the data efficiently and Just in Time manner through Entity Framework.  • Used Web Services (SOAP, WSDL) for communicating with other application and components.  • Responsible for developing WCF Service Libraries to exchange data between Desktop and Central Application and implement business logic.  • Implemented SSIS packages and jobs to integrate with external third parties and internal databases.  • We used TFS (Team Foundation Server) for all the source code maintenance among the whole team members.  • Involved in all the stages of SDLC. Completely understand the importance of Quality of work in deliverables given to client.  • Responsible for manual testing, Unit testing, Integration testing, System testing for modules coded.    Environment: Microsoft Visual Studio 2012, Agile Methodologies, ASP.NET, ADO.NET, C#, .NET framework 4.0,MVC4,HTML, CSS, JavaScript, WCF, TFS, SQL Server 2008, Web Services, Entity Framework, AJAX, LINQ. Software Developer (.Net) Wells Fargo - San Francisco, CA January 2008 to April 2009 Responsibilities:  • Worked on C# .NET 2.0 ASP.NET Web Applications Development and Maintenance.  • Worked on Statoil's Financial Solutions tool to create, edit or modify financial data and generates quarterly, half yearly and annual reports.  • Worked on ADO.NET and SQL Server 2008/2005 development and integration activities.  • Worked on Web Services development and deployment in .NET 2.0  • Worked on Windows Application development in C# and maintenance activities.  • Worked on complete SDLC life cycle from Requirement gathering, Design Documents creation, Development, Deployment & Implementation.  • Worked on WCF Services and SOAP Services in .NET 3.5 and in Store Procedures.  • Worked on SQL Server 2005 mainly on creating/modifying Store Procedures & Triggers    Environment: C#, ASP.NET, SQL Server 2008/2005, Visual Studio 2008 ASP .NET, ADO .NET, .Net 2.0, JavaScript, Visual Source Safe 6.0, SOAP UI. Education Bachelor's