Senior Software Developer, Vendor Resource Management Senior <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span>, Vendor Resource Management Senior Software Developer Chino Hills, CA Work Experience Senior Software Developer, Vendor Resource Management NET Development March 2014 to Present Senior Developer  Maintenance and new feature development for internal and public facing websites as well as client facing web services. Duties  include: Analysis and refinement of client requirements, technical architecture, database design & programming, server & client programming, reporting and web service development. Primary technologies used are C#/ASP.NET and SQL Server.  Also responsible for assisting junior developers and conducting code reviews, facilitating scrum, etc.. Projects include:  ? Asset Management System - flagship application for servicing processes, used by Operations as well as external users.  ? Revised inventory boarding process to be more flexible and configurable per client. Replaced FTP based process  with web services and asynchronous processing.  ? Revised data import/export mechanisms to use a standardized methodology and common codebase, replacing  older, less scalable version. Documented and instructed other developers on the new model.  ? Created and consumed numerous web services for communicating with clients. Implemented custom encryption  and logging for WCF services and integrated with client systems.  ? Modified application to support multiple clients with different configurations (work schedules, client specific  display, etc.)  ? Implemented rules engines to verify business compliance (licenses, etc.) as well as eligibility for special  programs.  ? Several modifications to site infrastructure (code and database) to add new features / flexibility.  ? General maintenance and updating of site.  ? Participate in setup and maintenance of non-production environments, for testing and special projects.  ? Assisted with creation and management of automated builds using TFS.  Calibre and Reconciliation - internal business operations sites used for quality assurance audits and validating client  data integration, respectively.  ? Heavily modified Reconciliation site to improve performance and add new features.  ? Created automated process to extract data from client sites and load to Reconciliation site, eliminating slow and error prone data entry.  ? General maintenance and performance tuning for Calibre website.  ? Added features to automate weekly processes and reduce manual tasks for QA group.  ? Implemented "Challenge Process" feature for Calibre, whereby internal users can respond to QA audits.    Received Margaret Murray Award, (quarterly award nominated by management) in May 2018 for efforts supporting  integration with our largest client. These efforts generally involved lengthy technical discussions and troubleshooting with the client's technical staff. Software Developer (independent contractor) InformationLogix September 2013 to February 2014 Ongoing ASP.NET maintenance and new development for InformationLogix. Projects include Bank of America Mortgage  Loan Officer sites, Online Mortgage Center sites, and Down Payment Resource Center site. Senior Developer InformationLogix November 2003 to September 2013 ASP.NET Development - Lead Developer & Architect  Full project development for internal and external clients. Duties include: Analysis and refinement of client requirements, technical architecture, database design & programming, server & client programming, reporting and web service development.  Projects include:  ? Bank of America Mortgage Loan Officer/Office public & administrative websites.  Sites features integration with bank databases and web services, geographical search, user administration, reporting, and content management from administrative website.  ? Bank of America Mortgage Professional Newsletter public & administrative websites.  CMS driven newsletter with WYSIWYG article editor, single sign on (integrated with Mortgage Loan Officer  administrative website), loan officer branding and reporting.  ? Bank of America Online Mortgage Center public & administrative websites.  Branded and customizable version of informational website for potential home buyers. Business partners can  configure this site with their logo, custom introductions, footers, default state display, etc., as well as connecting to bank services such as a prequalification application and daily rates.  ? REO.com  Site for the display of properties and agents. Duties included maintenance and UI upgrades, repairing components to improve performance and address known issues.  ? Bank of America Property Management Application  Application allows agents to edit marketing information for individual properties, as well as themselves. Users can  update contact information, upload property photos, etc. Primary duties were graphical upgrade as well as improvement of components.  ? Bank of America Reverse Mortgage public & administrative websites.  Websites for Reverse Mortgage officers to edit and display biographical, contact and specialty information.  Administrative site allows user configuration, "Digital Business Cards" and reporting.  ? Bank of America Reverse Mortgage Newsletter public & administrative websites.  Newsletter site that implements content management, single sign on, reporting and officer specific branding.  ? Bank of America Joint Venture public & administrative websites.  Co-branded informational websites for various products offered by bank and Joint Venture partners.  ? Bank of America Joint Venture Newsletter public & administrative websites.  Newsletter site implementing content management, single sign on, reporting and partner specific branding.  ? Bank of America Home Fair website  Publicity site for Home Fair events. Administration tool allows for event configuration as well as reporting.  ? Bank of America Home Ownership Center Kiosk  Large touchscreen unit for banking centers, allowing customers to see local housing, interest rates, daily messaging, loan officers, etc. Assisted on design, but most duties were in construction of administrative application.  ? Supervised development and testing of Bank of America Spanish Real Estate Center.  ? Buy Short Sales Now Offer Management System  Configurable system for buyers and lenders to exchange offers/counteroffers.  ? Axis Default System  Internal contact management system. Refactored, repaired and maintained, increased performance 400%, developed  configurable deployment system, implemented modular structure.  ? Online Broker Price Opinion  Application for brokers in the field. Combination of dynamic PDF and server side code, allowed a broker to fill out forms offline, then sync with servers for reporting purposes.  ? Waterford Crystal Designs  E-commerce site for high end linens and associated products public. Responsible for most UI functionality and some  database development.  ? Developed custom widgets used across multiple Bank of America websites.  ? Primary author and maintainer of corporate class libraries containing custom widgets, validation controls, utilities, etc.  ? REO Outsourcing  Internal website, used by REO management team. Responsible for design and user interface.  ASP Development - Developer  ? REO.com  Rebuilt Offer Management System application to allow dynamic configuration and versioning. Also responsible for general maintenance and development.  ? Bank of America Real Estate Center  Maintenance and occasional development.    Other duties Developer PacifiCare Health Systems September 2000 to October 2003 ASP Web Development  Project development for internal websites. Duties include: Front end coding, creation of in-house utilities, administration of Content Management application and technical management / training of the transition to the CMS. Examples:  ? Maintenance and/or creation of applications on PacifiCare.com and SecureHorizons.com  Applications include: Contact Me, Online Grievance, revision and upgrade of PacifiCare's Quality Index for Doctors, Hospitals, and Women.  ? Maintenance and content creation for PacifiCare.com and SecureHorizons.com  Projects include: Created branded versions of site for partner companies, creation and maintenance of various  graphical assets, frequent copy changes and additions.  ? Maintained and improved corporate intranet website.  Projects include: Restructured and site code, reducing code and load time by 40% while improving navigation and stability. Managed the upgrade of site, developed tool to automate modification of 4000+ pages, reducing project time  from 6 months to 2 months. Frequent content upgrades and additions.    Java Web Development & Administration  ? System Administrator for Vignette CMS  ? Supported Vignette Content Management System environments  ? Created and modified CMS templates and code  ? Helped establish standards and requirements for conversion from ASP to CMS and trained developers.  ? Coordinated content and application deployment for all CMS related projects.  ? Developed and maintained department knowledge base.    Other duties  ? Developed various in-house utilities and tools in JSP, Java, Perl, ASP, VBScript  Examples: Survey parsing tools, system outage reporting, data scrubbing and inter-system transfer.  ? Troubleshot and repaired deployment failures  ? Created standardized HTML templates used by the corporation, and trained multiple clients on their use. Lead Consultant, ITAC Department California State University 1997 to 2000 Web Development / Student Assistant  ? Department webmaster, developed CGI based media library & facility request system  ? Assisted students, basic network troubleshooting, supervised night shift, light bookkeeping Education B.S. in Computer Information Systems California State Polytechnic University September 2000 Skills Ajax, Asp, Css, Asp.net, Ms sql server, Sql server, Sql, Mvc, Visual studio, Api, C#, Git, Html, Javascript, Wcf, Perl, Svn, Xml, Xsl, Msbuild, Linux Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information Technical Skills & Experience  Languages & Technologies: C#, SQL, JavaScript, Visual Studio (2003-2019), WCF, MVC, Web API 2, AJAX, ASP.NET,  HTML, CSS, MS SQL Server (2000-2016), MS SQL Reporting Services, Perl, XML, XSL, XPath, MSBuild, Windows,  Linux, Unix, Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Premiere Pro, Git, SVN, TFS, Google & Bing Maps API