Developer Sr <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr Developer Sr - Freddie Mac Jacksonville, FL Work Experience Developer Sr Techno/Freddie Mac - McLean, VA May 2017 to Present McLean VA, USA  Project: Development, Data Analytics and Reporting (@Freddie Mac)  Client Freddie Mac  Environment: SAS, Unix, Mainframes  Role: Developer Sr.  Technologies SAS, R, Python, SQL, Unix, Mainframes, Datastage  Brief description of the project:  The project involves working on Freddie Mac's Corporate Data Warehouse, developing Data Quality Reports, analyzing the Data Quality and Reporting using  SAS, SQL, Unix Shell Scripts, Mainframes and DataStage.  Responsible for:  • Attending the Project Kick-off calls to start off the Project and daily status  calls, retrospective meetings, review meetings etc.  • Business Analysis, Data Quality Analysis and Development  • Developing Data Quality reports using SAS, JCL, Cobol etc.  • Developing Data Quality reports using SAS, Shell Scripts etc. in Unix  • Reporting the Data Quality and Produce compare reports using SQL and SAS  • Test and deploy code changes using SAS, Unix & Mainframes  • Used the Agile methodology during the project life cycle and ascertained  deliverables on as per sprint basis. Senior Software Engineer DEL Monte Foods, Husch Blackwell Company, Oxford Industries October 2016 to April 2017 Fidelity Assignments, 13th October 2016 - 13th April 2017  Bangalore India  Project: Data Conversion and Reporting of 401K (@Fidelity)  Client DEL Monte Foods, Husch Blackwell Company, Oxford Industries  Environment: Mainframe, SAS, Unix  Role: Senior Software Engineer  Technologies SAS, SQL, Unix  Brief description of the project:  The project involves working on Defined Contributions data received from various  clients and converting them to Fidelity Report Management Systems Data. Then the Data will be transferred to Fidelity Record Keeping System and Maintained in Fidelity.  Responsible for:  • Attending the Project Kick-off calls to start off the Project and daily status  calls, retrospective meetings, review meetings etc.  • Business Analysis, Data Analysis using SAS, SQL and Unix  • Data Mapping and converting using SAS, SQL and UNIX  • Reporting the Data converted using SAS, loading the data to production  • Report generation using SQL, SAS and Shell scripts  • Panels, Table Services, Library Management, File Tailoring using REXX  • Writing CICS programs, interfacing to DB2, batch MVS applications using  REXX  • Automating part of conversion using REXX Maternity and Child care July 2013 to October 2016 Developer Senior, Team Lead Santander, MX January 2011 to July 2013 Bangalore India  Project: FICO TRIAD development and Implementation Projects (@FICO)  Client First National Bank of Omaha, Citibank, Santander Mexico, AAFES, NAB  T-Mobile, TD Bank  Environment: Triad, Blaze Advisor, JDE  Role: Developer Senior, Team Lead  Technologies UNIX, Java, J2EE, Spring Boots, Micro Services, HTML, Spring, Eclipse  Brief description of the project:  The Triad development and Implementation projects which involves configuration of Triad, developing Triad Customization of Custom Characteristics, Keys, Exclusions, Performance  definitions, Limit Models and Apportionment definitions using Blaze Advisor. Also involved Triad  products customizations to be developed in Mainframes/Unix according to client requirement.  Involves developing customizations, testing, packaging the product, supporting the customer on  4Installation and UAT.  Responsible for:  • Setup the test DB in SQL Server 2008  • Configuration of FICO Triad, developing Triad Customization of Custom Characteristics, Keys, Exclusions, Performance definitions, Limit Models and Apportionment definitions  using Blaze Advisor 6.9. Test Blaze rules using brUnit test runner.  • Configuring and Testing of Champion/Challenger Strategy  • Configuring and testing of SPIDs and Random Digits  • Configuring and testing of TRIAD Decision Areas Scoring, Credit Facilities, Collections, Authorizations etc.  • Prepare and update test plan for each testing on Blaze code developed for Triad  • Generating Cobol code out of Blaze once testing passed  • Deploying blaze developed rules in Triad-Mainframes/Unix  • Installing Model Triad in Mainframe/Unix and test the Blaze developed customizations  • Testing Triad customizations with model Triad in Mainframe/Unix  • Developing rules using various decision metaphors like Blaze Rulesets, Templates, Score  Models, Decision Trees, Ruleflows etc.,  • Testing of the project using BrUnit test runner or web based testing in RMA etc.,  • Creating Blaze Repositories with Business Object Model using Java, J2EE, Spring Boots, Micro Services, Spring and Eclipse.  • Test the Rules by passing input from Spring/ Eclipse  • Web based testing using XML, html  • Preparing/Updating Technical Specification, functional specification documents  • Handling Migration of TRIAD product versions and corresponding Databases using SQL  Server DB  • Creating Repository in Target Database and setting schemas to migrate the Database, Mapping fields from source to target DB. Validating DB in Oracle DB after Migration Developer Royal Bank of Canada February 2010 to December 2010 Environment: Mainframes- COBOL, JCL, VSAM, DB2 and CICS  Role: Developer  Brief description of the project:  The development project that involves developing DB changes. Program and prepare the report  comparing old and new table definitions. The project involves the coding using SQL, COBOL, JCLs  etc., as per the requirements.  Responsible for:  • Coding using COBOL, JCLs, SQL scripts etc.  • Preparing Design document and Test plan & test cases. Unit and Integration Testing of the modules  • Prepared end-end Job flow documents for production support, Prepared Program  specification documents for each program developed  • Break fixes, providing on-call support for tickets, resolving Job failures, Unit and Integration testing of the modules  • Creating Tools/Automations using REXX and CList  • Field Mapping and writing migration scripts to migrate the DB from Mainframe to Oracle  DB, Validation of DB after migration Developer Wipro June 2007 to February 2010 Environment: Mainframe COBOL, JCL , VSAM , DB2 and CICS  AS400 - COBOL ILE, CL, RPG ILE and DB2/400  Role: Developer  Brief description of the project:  A security product that interacts with Cisco Enterprise Policy Manager and gets back the authorities of the user to be implemented in the application based on Security. The Online  screens designed were using CICS in Mainframes and SDA in AS400. The product was developed in both the platforms of AS400 and Mainframes.  Responsible for:  • Requirements Gathering, Developing the Product in Mainframe and AS400  • Developing COBOL, DB2, CICS programs in Mainframe & AS400 to connect to ORACLE  DB to execute the oracle Stored procs from Mainframes and getting the result set to Mainframe  • Security policy modelling using Oracle DB Stored procedures  • Unit testing, Integration testing of modules in Mainframes and AS400  • Implementation and support of the product in Mainframe and AS400  Project2: BASIS Support Project (@Wipro)  Client The Coca-Cola Company, USA  Environment: AS400  Role: Developer, Support Engineer  Brief description of the project:  The Production support project which involves fixing of issues technically. Uses Change  Management System and Request Management System for the tracking of issues and enhancements.  Responsible for:  • Developing the Modules using Mainframes, Cobol 400, RPG ILE, CL, SDA, DB2 400 and PF/LF as per client requirement  • Working with customers in understanding the requirements  • Design and Development of Enhancements  • Unit Testing of Codes Developed  • Resolving issues rose in Production as per SLA  • Adhering to the SLAs    Career Gaps Explained: Education Bachelor of Engineering in Production Engineering Madras Institute of Technology - Chennai, Tamil Nadu June 2003 to May 2007 Skills Sql, Mainframe, Sas, Unix, Python, Sql Server, XML, Javascript, HTML Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information Soft Skills  using Technologies like SQL, SAS, R, Python, Java, Mainframe  • Business Analysis and Unix  • Presentation Skills