Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Clovis, CA Motivated, personable, business professional with a talent for quickly mastering technology. Diplomatic and tactful with professionals and non-professionals at all levels. Accustomed to handling sensitive, confidential records.. Flexible and versatile - able to maintain a sense of humor under pressure. Poised and competent with demonstrated ability to easily transcend cultural differences. Thrive in deadline-driven environments. Excellent team-building skills.  General Skills/Computer Skills/ Languages    ? Project Management  ? Excellent communication skills  ? budget planning Work Experience Software Developer Westcare Foundation March 2016 to Present WESTCARE FOUNDATION, LAS VEGAS, NV  Software Developer  Expertise in a variety of computer hardware and software, able to use one or more development language (C++, PHP, HTML, etc.), Strong communication skills, can work as a team player and individual, as needed, Eye for detail and identifying problems, An understanding of business, Analytical and commercial experience, work closely with analysts, designers and staff, product testing, training manual preparation, system maintenance, web design, graphics design, CSS, HTML, knowledge of web applications, web services, and security principles.    Java and MySQL are used in Jaspersoft and JasperReports (Java EE web applications, embeddable reporting and analytics software) Used daily in creating a variety of dynamic reports, forms, and analytical dashboards for upper management and facility use. Currently learning Advanced WordPress which utilizes PHP, Git and MySQL.    OLYMPIC COLLEGE: STUDENT OF COMPUTER INFORMATION SYSTEMS, Bremerton, WA  Skills gained in multiple computer languages, structures, and theories. Knowledge gained with multiple operating systems including Linux, Microsoft Windows, Unix. Extensive knowledge and skills in Web Design, including Dreamweaver, Photoshop and Flash. Skilled in HTML, XML and CSS. Basic understanding of network security  COMMUNICATION: REPORTS/PRESENTATIONS/TECHNOLOGY  Prepare complex reports for managed care organizations and insurance companies, ensuring full compliance with agency requirements and tight deadlines. Author professional correspondence to customers and vendors. Communicate medical concepts to clients using layman's terms to facilitate understanding. Rapidly learn and master varied computer programs; recently completed Epic Training and utilized Healthline Systems Database Program Communication  CUSTOMER SERVICE/MARKETING/PROBLEM SOLVING  Oversee front-office operations and provide impeccable customer service: Built a clientele supported by 75% referral business. Develop and implement strategic marketing plan for business. Launched a thriving private practice, building revenue from $0 to over $85K in first three years with minimal overhead. Create special promotions, write/design and print advertising, and coordinate all media buying.  DETAIL MASTERY & ORGANIZATION  Manage all aspects of day-to-day operations as owner and Paralegal of Paralegal of Tahoe: Facility rental/maintenance. Client scheduling for busy office averaging 60 appointments weekly. Finances: accounts payable/receivable, invoicing, billing, budgeting. Supervision of a total of seven paralegals. Compliance with all legal requirements Education Master's Degree in Computer Science SOUTHERN NEW HAMPSHIRE UNIVERSITY - Manchester, NH May 2014 to January 2019 Bachelor's Degree in Computer Science, Information Technology SOUTHERN NEW HAMPSHIRE UNIVERSITY - Manchester, NH 2014 to 2016 Associates in Applied Sciences in Applied Sciences OLYMPIC COLLEGE - Bremerton, WA 2010 to 2014 High School Diploma OLYMPIC COLLEGE - Bremerton, WA 2014 Certificate in Access Database Management PORTLAND COMMUNITY COLLEGE - Portland, OR Skills Android (Less than 1 year), Asp (Less than 1 year), Asp.net (Less than 1 year), C+ (Less than 1 year), Css (Less than 1 year), PHP, Git, Javascript, MySQL, jQuery