Sr. Solutions Architect Sr. Solutions Architect Sr Solutions Architect Marietta, GA With more than 36 years of experience with computers, and more than 21 years of Web Design experience. I bring a broad range of talents to any position. By incorporating my quick learning abilities, innate ability to adapt to the needs presented and natural leadership qualities, I strive to be a valuable member of any project or endeavor. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Solutions Architect White Sunrise - Atlanta, GA December 2013 to Present Lead developer on well over 100 projects for external clients both large and small.    Expert developer in the full LAMP stack.    Equally at home building, repairing, or modifying web applications and appliances in any of the new or old PHP frameworks including but not limited to Laravel, Magento CE & Enterprise, Code Igniter, Bootstrap, Foundation, Drupal, WordPress, WooCommerce, Open Cart, Joomla.    All development managed in Git repositories also utilizing the various hosting suites such as Heroku, Forge, etc. for auto deployment of branches.    Hosting setup, optimization, and maintenance on every major host most commonly on AWS, Heroku, Forge, and standard Virtual and Private hosts.    Handled on call and ticking system issues.    In general I am the go to guy for old or new systems with issues that need to be tracked down and fixed. Master Web Developer American Web Masters - Atlanta, GA October 2009 to Present Self Employed as a Web Developer.     • Developed and / or modified dozens of websites for Zoom Design of Atlanta   • Allstar Music Experience - Bootstrap / MySQL  • Pink Alley Boutique - Wordpress 3.7  • Mike Clark Signs - Drupal Site  • Video Martial Arts Training.com - Training site with fully automated subscriptions using heavily modded Drupal 5  • United Combative Arts - Wordpress site  • PlumbMaxx - Drupal  • The Jewelry Couple - Joomla site redesign to Drupal, Magento implimentation  • Zilliant Innovations - Drupal - Custom interface for client updating - Interactive ticketing system  • SignWorks - Drupal - Custom interface for client updating  • Olympic Masonry - Custom PHP mostly static site with client maintainable content  • KFM Atlanta - Drupal  • Iron Horse Restaurant - Drupal   • Forum For Fundraising - Drupal  • Too Many more to list including numerous private sites for families and individuals Sr. Software Engineer MP3Waxx - Atlanta, GA November 2012 to December 2013 • Redesign and deployment of existing website into a user interactive site using PHP with a MySQL backend  • Custom content management implemented to accommodate ease of entry/edit and display of artists pages, video and audio files.  • Search and display of post content including play lists for video player and audio player and news articles  • Video and audio galleries dynamically driven by prioritized post structure  • SEO optimization   • utilization of standard Dev/Prod environment structure to facilitate development and upgrades  • CSS Skinning and minor graphic production  • Design and Implement custom wordpress plugins  • Created user updateable MobileWeb's managed within their user profile Senior PeopleSoft Developer TomorrowNow - Atlanta, GA October 2007 to October 2009 • Member of PeopleSoft HRMS/HCM Development team responsible for tax updates and fixes for multiple platforms on up to 25 or more remote clients at a given bundle.  • Responsible for research, design, creation, and test plans for tax updates on a quarterly and annual basis. Modifying SQRs, COBOLs, Panels/Pages, PeopleCode, and Data as needed.  • Troubleshooting client submitted cases for possible master fixes or one off client repairs Expert Software Developer (PeopleSoft) T.B.S. Enterprise Application / CAS&T - Atlanta, GA January 2006 to September 2007 • PeopleSoft Financials 8.8 reporting expert supporting all areas of PeopleSoft reporting   • Designed and built over 80 reports for GL, AP, and AR modules including panel driven reports, 2-tier Crystal reports, and Crystal Enterprise web based reports  • Acting as final level of support for any query driven reporting issues including nVision reports  • On-call support for GL, AP, AR, and AM business analysts and their users/customers   • Research across all areas of financials as required by new issues, possible upcoming projects, and while evaluating possible new software Expert Software Developer (Hyperion) T.B.S. Enterprise Application / CAS&T - Atlanta, GA March 2002 to December 2005 • Lead technical resource for Hyperion Planning implementation. Including but not limited to Dimension architecture, Business Rules, Forms, and Automation of loads through data aware PERL scripting and HAL Interfaces  • Design and create custom Essbase 6.1 cubes for various projects  • Build load rules to interface production HR data to Essbase forecast and budgeting  • Create calculation scripts to facilitate benefits, salary, and statistical data roll up  • Design and implement complex PERL scripting to fully automate the maintenance of server variables, monthly data loads, cube data archival, and emailing of the results  • Acting liaison to the user base for multiple projects. Making complex architectures easy for the functional community to understand  • Administration as an alternate for most DBA activities, helping with Essbase and Oracle user setup, support, and troubleshooting  • Acting 24/7 technical support for multiple applications – (The final go to guy for nearly any project I am involved in) Education High school or equivalent Skills Laravel (4 years), Magento CE (3 years), Wordpress (10+ years), Code Igniter (5 years), Bootstrap (5 years), PHP (10+ years), SQL (10+ years), SQR (10+ years), HTML 5 (4 years), CSS3 (4 years), HTML (10+ years), CSS (10+ years), Javascript (10+ years), JQuery (10+ years), Angular (3 years), Vue (2 years), Git (6 years), Apache (10+ years), Ngenix (2 years), SQL Server, Linux, XML Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/jlgeiger/ Additional Information I love what I do, I have always been a programmer. I can also take a more managerial role and have supervised several Jr and Intermediat Developers in the past, but I honestly shine when it comes to diging in and getting my hands dirty with some code.