Front End Software Engineer Front End <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Front End Software Engineer Sandy, UT Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front End Software Engineer Banjo Inc March 2019 to July 2019 VueJS, JavaScript (ES6), HTML, LESS, SCSS, Bootstrap, TypeScript, Storybook api  ? Had initial key responsibility of prototyping UI designs while simultaneously  building component library for use throughout the Livetime application.  ? Livetime application is a live data analytics tool utilizing ingestion of various  data source signals, ML technology for detecting anomalous public events, and extensive mapping tools for the displaying of event data.  ? Worked very closely with product team to define UI/UX style guide and companion design system.  ? Implemented design system using Storybook api.  ? Was solely responsible for implementing the majority of the front end  scaffolding of a vue.js application as a working prototype. Node.js backend and data middleware layers were to be implemented later.  ? As a member of small vue/node team, brought aforementioned vuejs  application to production delivery with final implementation of node backend, converting existing js files to TypeScript, and fixing numerous bug issues. Software Engineer Christopherson Business Travel December 2015 to January 2019 ReactJS, JavaScript (ES6), HTML, CSS, Foundation, jQuery DataTable plugin, PHP, Java, Web Services, Jest unit testing  ? Close cross collaboration with other team members to design, development, and test the travel management web application suite used by 1200+ clients  with 25,000+ users, including travel managers, travel planners, travelers, and account managers.  ? Key responsibility of rebuilding key application pages with ReactJS using  modern JavaScript(ES6), HTML, SCSS, JSX, Axios library for AJAX requests.  ? Significant experience using Git source repository, including branching and merging pull requests.  ? Significant contribution to responsive design upgrades using ZURB  Foundation framework as well as significant UI enhancements to styles and overall user experience. Again with emphasis on use of JavaScript, HTML, and  SCSS.  ? Worked with Zend PHP framework controllers and corresponding actions in conjunction with the responsive design enhancements.  ? Java experience consisted of enhancements to SOAP/RESTful web services  and domains to include new functionality or overall improvements. STG Bench August 2015 to November 2015 AngularJS, Ember, ReactJS, Backbone, Maven, Spring(MVC), Java Core  ? Introductory tutorials and education of the following JS frameworks:  Ember, ReactJS, and Backbone.  ? Significant review of advanced JS topics such as scope, closure, and prototype.  ? Tutorials and education of Spring framework principles including MVC, Security, and JPA. Software Developer Software Technology Group March 2015 to November 2015 Contributor to APIMS web application Northrop Grumman March 2015 to July 2015 APIMS is the Air Program  Information Management System used by various branches of the U.S.  government, owned and managed by the U.S. Air Force. APIMS web  application is a tools used for measuring, tracking, and auditing air  quality impact of government operations, among other functions.  ? Primarily tasked with adding and converting existing native JSP data  grids/tables for the APIMS application with AngularUI tables, ng-grid is  an AngularUI data grid library. This required use of JavaScript, HTML, and CSS.  ? Worked with Struts action forwarding in conjunction with the grid  enhancements.  ? Responsible for upgrading AngularJS from 1.2 to 1.4. Java Software Developer Attensity Americas, Inc June 2014 to February 2015 AngularJS, Bootstrap, Java, REST, Jasmine/Karma, jUnit, Mockito  ? Worked on a SaaS application utilizing Java web technologies to provide users  with NLP analytics of real time and historical social media data sources such as Twitter, Facebook, and other web published content.  ? Front-end UI development of SaaS application using AngularJS and Bootstrap, utilizing JavaScript, HTML, CSS.  ? Consumed RESTful Java web services using AngularJS components.  ? Strong emphasis on front end unit testing using Jasmine/Karma. For back end  unit testing, jUnit framework was used with Mockito. Software Engineer Intuitive, Inc April 2013 to April 2014 Java, Spring, SOAP, AJAX, JSON, jQuery, Bootstrap, Agile  ? Java SOAP web services development using Spring.  ? UI development using JavaScript, jQuery/AJAX and JSON data messaging as well as HTML and CSS development using Bootstrap UI framework.  ? Using an agile development process provided the Department of Veterans  Affairs with deliverables for the HIS projects of HMP/VINCI. Software Engineer CHG Healthcare Services February 2012 to March 2013 Java, Spring, Hibernate, Tapestry, EJB, Velocity  ? Java development using Spring, Hibernate, and Tapestry technologies. With  some use of EJB and Velocity templates.  ? Work closely with a variety of team members such as BA, QA, and management to plan, design, implement, and test project tasks using Agile  development methods with some projects using a mini-Waterfall approach  depending upon scope and project needs. Responsible for some BA and QA  work before dedicated BA and QA personnel became available.  ? Involved in the entire life cycle of development: from requirements gathering to deployment validation.  ? Would often support production issues by monitoring application logs or server performance, resolving configuration problems, or fixing and releasing  patches.  ? Create dynamic form templates using Adobe Livecycle ES2. Software Engineer Boxworks Technologies October 2007 to February 2012 PHP, C, HTML, JavaScript, jQuery, CSS, AJAX, SQL, Java, Spring, Hibernate, Struts, JSP  ? Developed web applications using PHP, SQL, and C. With front-end  development being done with HTML, JavaScript, CSS, jQuery, and AJAX.  ? Was responsible for contributing to the development, release, and updating of material handling software products used at various client sites. As such  would work closely with client, especially while onsite for major system  upgrades.  ? Additionally developed Java applications using Spring, Hibernate, Struts, and JSP technologies.    Student Work Experience Developer MRL Scientific Computing and Imaging Institute April 2006 to September 2006 C++  ? Collaborated on C++ code development and documentation, as well as provided additional support for testing and code improvement of WarpLAB  software.  ? WarpLAB is a finite element (FE) post-processing application developed by The Musculoskeletal Research Lab that is specially designed to post-process  'warping' problems, such as tensions on a material body. Education Urban Vehicle Challenge for the University of Utah 2007 Bachelor of Science in Computer Science University of Utah Skills Git, Html, Javascript (6 years), Bootstrap, Reactjs (1 year), Typescript (Less than 1 year), Php, Java, Css, Web services, Angularjs (2 years), Soap, Rest, React (1 year), Node (Less than 1 year), Front End, CSS3, Front-End, HTML5, UI, Jquery (4 years), User Interface, VueJS (Less than 1 year) Additional Information Full stack software engineering experience of 8+ years using modern front end  technologies such as JavaScript (ES6), ReactJS, VueJS, TypeScript, HTML5,    CSS, SCSS & Less, AngularJS, middleware technologies such as Node, PHP,    and server side api development using Java web application technologies. Motivated to    develop clean, concise, performant and modern software. Detail-oriented, and  results-driven with significant experience in, both frontend and backend, web and SaaS  applications development. Dedicated to maintaining current and relevant experience  with various software development technologies. Understand the critical necessity of  effective and timely communication with team members and especially clients  concerning all aspects of project development.    Technical Skills  Technologies/Tool: JavaScript (6+yrs), ES6 (1+yrs), ReactJS (1+yrs), VueJS,  TypeScript, HTML/CSS (6+yrs), SCSS, LESS, AngularJS  (2yrs), Zurb Foundation (3yrs) & Bootstrap (1+yrs), REST &  SOAP web services, Git (3+yrs), NPM, Gulp and Grunt build  tools (1+yrs), PHP (5+yrs), Java (4+yrs).