Sr. Applications Developer Specialist Sr. Applications <span class="hl">Developer</span> Specialist Sr. Applications Developer Specialist - NRECA Portland, OR 11 + years of technical leadership experience in developing web-based applications. Familiarity with Agile/Scrum development methodologies, TFS or Jira, and build management. Master Degree in Software Engineering.  Team player attitude, outstanding communication and problem solving skills. Intelligent, skilled and motivated. Work Experience Sr. Applications Developer Specialist NRECA - San Francisco, CA October 2018 to Present Providing full life-cycle development including requirements analysis & documentation, design, development, testing and implementation of applications that support business goals and then help support these applications once they are in production.  Participating in code reviews to ensure applications and processes support existing architecture, follow defined guidelines and coding standards and meet user requirements.  Programming with .NET Core, Mongo DB, Web API, WCF, Angular, JavaScript, and Bootstrap. Sr. Full Stack Developer WMATA - Washington, DC October 2017 to October 2018 Creates and supports complex, n-tier web applications (both customer facing and internal) to support WMATA departmental requirements. Ensures that process efficiency and software development life-cycle standards are being met according to the guidelines set forth by the Authority.  - Coordinates directly with WMATA departments regarding their web application requirements, and within the Information Technology department with components that support the development, deployment and ongoing operation of web applications, such as security, network communications and server operations.  Develops and implements Internet and Intranet application policies, procedures, and standards and ensures their conformance with WMATA objectives. Creating, configuring and deploying Web Application to an Azure VM.  Programming with .NET Core, SQL Server, Entity Framework, Web API, MVC, Angular, JavaScript, and Bootstrap. Sr. Full Stack Developer DMI - Arlington, VA April 2017 to October 2017 Participate in the design of software tools and subsystems to support reuse and domain analysis. Assist Applications Engineer and Applications Programmer to interpret software requirements and design specifications to code, and integrate and test software components. Programming with .net, C#, SQL Server, ASP.net, Angular, Bootstrap, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, Knockout JS and React JS. Utilizing tools like Gulp, Node JS. Sr. Software Engineer Assurant - Huntington Beach, CA January 2016 to April 2017 Analyze requirements, designs, codes, tests, and maintains application systems, programs, functions, services, and other related software components in response to enterprise needs of high complexity. Provides leadership, technical guidance, and mentoring to others. Work with design patterns such as ASP.NET MVC and architectural patterns such as DDD. Implementing WCF, REST services and Web API within a Service Oriented Architecture and data access using C# ADO.NET, Entity Framework and OData. Participate in full stack development lifecycle. Utilize AngularJS JavaScript and jQuery, HTML5, Bootstrap.  • Provide guidance and visibility to technical quality, including code coverage, technical debt tracking, and technical quality metrics  • Establish and enforce the code review process  • Work with the architects to ensure that guidance is followed consistently across all teams  • Provide escalation path for cross team issues and program issues that arise  • Act as a conduit and an advocate for development needs Sr. Software Engineer CareMetx LLC - Bethesda, MD July 2012 to January 2016 20814    Participating in Real-Time Data/Access Web Portal Development and company custom build CMS system based on open source Big Tree PHP CMS, creating dynamic and interactive web pages using .NET framework, jQuery, JSON, AJAX, HTML5, Bootstrap involves at many levels architecture design, UI design, DB planning, coding back end tier integration using ASP.NET MVC, LINQ to Entity Framework / ADO.NET, and MS SQL 2008.  • Data Warehouse Services  • Real-world performance data collection across health care delivery spectrum  • Data Analytics  • Real-time Data/Access Portals  • Patient services support: distribution to preferred specialty pharmacy, reimbursement, PAP and Co-pay programs .NET Developer Perform Consulting Inc - Alexandria, VA October 2010 to July 2012 22304    Development of DAU projects in Visual Studio 2010 and Team Foundation Server using ASP.NET, LINQ, JavaScript, and MVC. SQL, jQuery, HTML 4/5, IIS 7. DAU CLC Gaming, Mobile, Video, Modules portals are Web-based Content Management Systems developed as means to play, view, review, discuss, and administer educational games, video, modules and other Continuous Learning Center materials online to help Defense Acquisition Workforce members acquire Continuous Learning Points. Mobile version of porta created to enable users' access to DAU information through mobile devices. Responsibilities include:  • Configured MS IIS 6/7, installed modules required.  • Developed complex software to automate game upload process including parsing uploaded files, and integrating them into portal structure.  • Followed rigid security demands, implemented SSL access for websites.  • Implemented and documented late changes in functionality as per new functional requirements. Software Developer Baymark Ukraine - Kiev, UA September 2006 to October 2010 Ukraine    Successfully developed complex software for Kiev Federal Registrar Administration (FRA) that helps in database migration from Firebird to Oracle. FRA provides information and registration services to private persons and organizations managing state registration of the title (to property) documents. Designed and developed company website and on-line information management services using ASP.NET.  • Created functional design specification;  • Developed core classes set using ADO.NET Provider Factory to access different SQL data sources simply by changing settings in the strings in the configuration file;  • Created DB tables, SQL queries and packages using PL-SQL;  • Created software for document text analyzing on C# using regular expressions;  • Created software for data transferring from Firebird database to Oracle database on .C#, PL/SQL;  • Prepared test cases and tested the system;  • Applied XML serialization technique to build XML request to third party software;  • Created user interface using ASP.NET Web Forms and HTML controls. Oracle DBA FIM Consulting June 2005 to September 2006 Responsibilities and Key Accomplishments  • Installation and configuration of Oracle 9i/10g server and creation of databases  • Installed, upgraded and patched Oracle software.  • Creating clone database for Testing Purpose.  • Installing and configuring 10g OEM Grid control.  • Maintenance and monitoring of different clients databases (table spaces, data file, control files).  • Implement and maintain database security (create and maintain users and roles, assign privileges).  • Importing of dumps using imped/expdp utilities.  • Taking care of database by checking the size the database and addition of table spaces, data files as and when required.  • Created standby database using data guard.  • Migrating and upgrading the Oracle 9i database to Oracle 10g.  • Oracle Discoverer 10g.  • Oracle E-Business Suite.  • Oracle Enterprise Manager  • Oracle Security Backup.  • Provided Oracle database administrative support.  • Oracle Financial Analyzer (Express Server, OFA).  • Collaborated with an 8-member network administrator's team.    Tools: Linux, Windows 98/2000/XP, FreeBSD, Shell scripts, RMAN, TOAD, OEM, Apache, SQL Navigator Education Master of Science degree in Software Engineering Zhitomir University September 1999 to May 2004 Skills Ms sql server, Sql server, Mysql, Oracle, Postgresql, Sql, Ms visual studio, Visual studio, C#, C/c++, C++, Html, Php, Eclipse, Unix, Rdbms, Angular (3 years), .NET (10+ years), Web API (5 years) Additional Information Technical skills:  Languages: C#, C/C++, PHP, HTML.  OS: Windows, UNIX like systems.  RDBMS: MS SQL Server, Oracle, MySQL, PostgreSQL, Mongo DB.  IDE: MS Visual Studio, MS Visual Code, Eclipse.