Sr.Net Developer Sr.Net <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr.Net Developer - Comcast Philadelphia, PA Work Experience Sr.Net Developer Comcast - Philadelphia, PA April 2018 to Present Project Description:  Centralized Messaging Platform (CMP) platform provides a complete messaging solution, which can directly engage Comcast proprietary programs and put them in contact with Comcast customers via a variety of engagement platforms. It is the new cloud-based, wide-scaling platform for message delivery from CMP. The CMP. It supports SMTP, SMS and 2way Messaging system. Also has integration to Apple chat and Facebook.    Roles and Responsibilities  • Implemented 'server less' architecture using API Gateway, Lambda, and Dynamo DB.  • Worked with team in developing 2 way Messaging services, Chat platforms and SMTP services.  • Created MVC ASP.net core web applications using Razer templates and JQuery.  • Created View Components and used Asynchronous Post back and client Validation using JQuery  • Developed the User Interface using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JQuery, JavaScript  • Experience in using MySQL (Aurora DB), Dynamo DB and Elastic-cache to perform basic database storing and logging.  • Created kibana dashboards for log metrics.  • Extensively worked on Json and Soap request formats.  • Used AWS Elastic Beanstalk for legacy .Net applications deployment and Developed WCF applications.  • Developed MVC web applications and API's in .Net Core 2.0  • Developed shunt applications for Migration of on premise services to Cloud.  • Used GitHub, Involved in the requirement gathering, design and development of the systems and deployed using Octopus and Team city for CI/CD process.  • Using MOQ and Xunit developed unit test cases.  • Worked in Agile environment and Taken Ownership of the user stories.    Environment: AWS services Lambda, Dynamo DB, Kinesis, S3, Aurora DB, SNS, API GW, Beanstalk, Asp.Net Core 2.0, Team City, Octopus, MVC 6, and Web API, GitHub, VS 2017, CI/CD tools Sr.Net Developer Active Health Management - Atlanta, GA September 2015 to March 2018 Project Description:  Active Advice offers a workflow-management tool used by nurses to guide members and physicians through the care management process. The tool generates activities and delivers Care Considerations that improves the quality of care provided to a member.    Roles and Responsibilities:  • Architecting, design and implementing ASP.NET MVC web solutions with industry best practices and design patterns.  • Created new Web APIs using ASP.NET Web API and created asynchronous methods.  • By using Ajax calls increased responsiveness, and effectively used JQuery for traversing HTML document and event handling.  • Extensively worked on Entity Data Model for implementing Business logic and Data Layer using Entity Framework.  • Created DTO objects, Business objects, Service request and response contract objects.  • Implemented user-friendly interface to seamlessly combine the new module with existing login system by using Angular JS framework.  • Effectively created easy to use reusable controls, partial views and Master Pages and integrated them into ASP.NET web pages with MVC 5.0.  • Extensively used LINQ and Entity Framework 6.1 to exchange data between web applications and database objects.  • Performed Modal Validation using Data annotations, Created Entity Model classes.  • Developed applications using C#, implemented design patterns, OO methods, and stored procedures.  • Experienced working with Dependency Injection Control using Unity.  • Experienced in working with Windows Communication Foundation (WCF) .NET Web Services using WSDL, SOAP, XML and UDDI in .Net Framework 4.5/4.6.1  • Used the responsive utilities of the Bootstrap frameworks to facilitate the design displaying properly on different devices.  • Responsible for bug fix/enhancements and provide the estimate report to project management including development and test time.  • Written Stored Procedures and other database operations such as complex SQL queries, views etc. Worked on performance tuning of stored procedures.  • Designed entire framework to support Test Driven Development(TDD) by making use of Dependency Injection through unity framework and developed a generic repository.  • Agile project planning and management in Team Foundation Server 2013.  • Implemented Front End Design using HTML5, CSS and Angular JS.  • Responsible for maintaining versions of source code in TFS.  • Conducted module level work effort estimates and integrated for the whole system.  • Implemented use of best practices and coding standards.  • Communication and co-ordination with offshore team for updates/clarification on day to day activities    Environment: Microsoft Visual Studio 2013/2015 Razor View, C#.NET 5.0, MVC 5, ADO.NET Entity, SQL Server 2012/2014, .NET Framework 4.5, WCF, XML, CSS, JavaScript, TFS. Sr .Net Developer/ Tech Lead UNUM - Chattanooga, TN August 2014 to September 2015 Project Description:  Benefits area comprises of systems and application that deals with the Claim Intake, Claim Management, Claim Payment and Claim Reporting. The business process includes creating claims for insured end users and paying them after calculating the appropriate benefit amounts    Roles and Responsibilities  • As a senior developer and technical lead guided the team in technical and business aspects.  • Supporting the batch jobs through Control M and applications through Service Now tickets.  • Good Experience in debugging the application and fixing the production issues.  • Maintained nearly 50 plus Microsoft technology applications. Which include MVC, WCF services, web applications and smart client applications.  • Followed SLA and delivered the incidents on time.  • Managing local groups with Directory Entry, getting User Group Memberships of the Logged in User from ASP.NET.  • Used JQuery & JSON for dynamic User Interface, retrieval and posting of data.  • Participated in design Discussions for building up the architecture of the project  • Using ASP.NET MVC and Angular JS developed CRUD operations.  • Implemented system services SOA application platform for use by all web applications utilizing WCF services and the ASP.NET 3.0/3.5 provider model.  • Involved in improving the performance of the application, by identifying the performance bottlenecks using Visual Profiler.  • Worked on Entity Framework 5 in Accessing the Database and manipulating data in Application.  • Debugged the Stored procedures and updated the business logic. Created triggers, UDFs, views, indexes and transactions.  • Followed change management system and version management using TFS.  • Supported Teradata Jobs and Informatica Jobs.  • Implemented LINQ for querying, sorting, filtering the complex objects.  • Implemented JQuery for client side sorting and validations  • Managing the deliverables and release activities and participating in scrum discussions.  • Performed extract, transform and Load (ETL) data operations from multiple systems to SQL Server using SSIS packages.    Environment: Microsoft C#.Net 4.0, ASP.Net 4.0, Entity Framework 5.0, MVC 5, WCF, Web services, Informatica, DB2, Teradata and SQL server, VS 2013/2010 Sr.Net Developer Warner Brothers - Los Angeles, CA August 2012 to August 2014 Project Description  The Sylvester Participations project is a multi-year, multi-phased program that will transform Participations department's current manual processes and current technology into a new global solution, which integrated with Warner Bros enterprise wide application landscape. There are several drives for this project, below mentioned are few of them:    Roles and Responsibilities  • Individually developed major enhancements like Interest calculation, IFP from/To data and Include/Exclude modules.  • Optimized the SQL procedures and improved the performance for which received appreciations from the client.  • Created and consumed WCF service to retrieve the customer information.  • Used WCF for interoperability with other platforms, technologies and for building the custom solutions.  • Implemented design patterns and the entire backend of the application in C#.NET, using various object oriented features like classes, interfaces, inheritance, polymorphism etc. and Multi-threading.  • Developed various Service Contracts across the organization for fetching Build Data, Developers Data and Products Data from Database, are implemented as Windows Communication Foundation (WCF).  • Responsible for managing and executing projects which include Requirement Gathering, analysis, Design and Development and System Testing.  • Worked on third party tools like office writer for excel report generation and Infragestic controls.  • Designed and developed Data Access layer, Business layer and Presentation Layer (user interface) for the n-tier architecture web application using C#, ADO. NET and ASP. NET.  • Implemented .Net Security features of Authentication and Authorization using .Net Membership.  • Involving in handling ASP.NET client side state management (view state, cookies and query strings) and server side state management (application state, session state and profile properties)  • Programmatically accessed Microsoft's Active Directory, involved in Active Directory Management  • Developed and debugged very big stored procedures and designed data base structures.  • Client side JavaScript & DHTML scripts, Unicode support, and server side Regular Expressions, for strict input validations.  • Created reusable user controls and implemented object caching in different pages in ASP.NET.  • Implemented XSLT for the transformation of XML documents.  • Deployed the site in to Production and Pre-Prod, QA Servers  • Gathering the requirements and drafting technical write-ups.    Environment: Microsoft C#, .NET framework 4.0, ASP.Net 4.0, Entity Framework 5.0 SQL Server 2008, Java script, JQuery, CSS and visual studio 2010/2008. .Net Developer Mitsubishi Polyester Films - Greenville, SC December 2010 to July 2012 Project Description  The Mitsubishi Polyester Films was in the process of converting its old legacy systems written in Microsoft Access with reliable and robust Microsoft .Net applications to address its growing business needs.    The Business Process Cycle covers the entire business process from the Order Creation for a Customer, Order management, Invoicing and Cash Receipt. The cycle begins when customer demand has identified. This demand must be confirmed and converted to an order to either start production or ship product from inventory. The order then tracked through production, warehousing and shipment. Once items shipped, an invoice been created and finally payment is recorded. A feedback management also developed, through which one can identify the defects in product, funds reclaiming and recycling the defected products can achieve.    Developed Active Batch Jobs, through which all the daily orders are processed, work orders and invoices are generated and are faxed and emailed to the customers automatically.    Role and Responsibilities  • Have played a major role in the development activities of the project. Gathered user requirements from the client and done requirement analysis.  • Designed and developed Data Access layer, Business layer and Presentation Layer (user interface) for the n-tier architecture web application using C#, ADO. NET and ASP. NET.  • As a core developer, developed several critical components namely: Role based security, automatic Fax sending, PDF file merge, etc. which are used in various stages of the project.  • Worked on code reusability, performance and reducing the code duplication.  • Worked on various major and minor enhancements in order to support Mitsubishi Polyester Film's growing business needs.  • Responsible for designing, development, deployment and maintenance of the system.  • Developed and maintained reports using MS SQL Server 2008 Reporting Services and integrated with asp.net web page using report viewer.  • Worked on XML Serialization to access the properties of an object and modify its values.  • Developed the Web Services and invoked them by using XML, SOAP and WSDL tool for creating proxy classes.  • Used SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS) for extraction transformation and loading data.  • Developed SSRS dynamic reports, Parameterized reports and Sub reports.  • Developed applications using C#, design patterns, OO methods, and stored procedures.  • Involving in handling ASP.NET client-side state management (view state, cookies and query strings) and server-side state management (application state, session state and profile properties)  • Effectively handled ASP.NET caching techniques such as page output caching and data caching in order to improve the performance of the web application.  • Developed Base Pages, Master Pages, Key web pages, Business Entities, Business Components, stored procedures.  • Used Team Foundation Server for source control and Lotus Notes for communication.    Environment: Microsoft C#.Net 3.0, ASP.Net 3.5, MS SQL Server 2008R2, Java script, CSS and jQuery, SSIS, SSRS, Visual studio 2008/2005 Software Developer Western Union - IN August 2007 to December 2010 Project Description:    Global Enterprise Marketing System (GEMS) is a web based marketing and financial provisioning tool that manages entire marketing process for Western Union, stating with budgeting and ending with accounting and financial reporting. It is a workflow system, facilitating the sharing of information and easing the approval and payment process for both internal and external customers.    Roles and Responsibilities  • As a core developer, developed enhancements, which include developing new modules, stored procedures and SSRS reports.  • Analyzing the issue/change request and making estimates, development of enhancements, code optimization and reusability, testing applications and attending daily status call with the Onsite Team.  • Developed payment approval workflow process.  • Used ASP.NET for front-end and C# in the Business and Data Access Layers to write Validation objects.  • Interacted with Application Users and other team members to solve data issues and customer requests.  • Implemented partial page caching using Ajax. Improved application performance.  • Created classes and core modules in C# for implementing business layer.  • Implemented object oriented programming concepts in C#.  • Design and develop databases Tables, Stored procedures, triggers, cursors, using SQL Server 2005.  • Used Execution plans and query optimization techniques for performance tuning of SQL in reports.  • Used grid view pagination, sorting and data update operations.  • Used Form Based Authentication for the Application as a .NET Security measure by providing a login page.  • Developed application and worked with Ado.net, Data Grid, and Data Set.  • Fixed bugs in the application at the business logic level and created Unit Test cases for the same.    Environment: Microsoft .NET Framework 3.0, VB.Net Ajax and MS SQL Server 2005, SSRS 2003, Java script and CSS. Education M. Tech in Power Electronics JNT University, IND 2007 Skills Asp, Css, Asp.net, Web services, Ado, Database, Ado.net, Ms sql server, Ms sql server 2005, Sql server, Sql server 2005, Oracle, Oracle 10g, Pl/sql, Sql, Visual studio, Api, Gui, Html, Javascript Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/yagna-naryana-raju-polury-b8b73315 Additional Information Technical Skills  Cloud    Technologies    AWS (Lambda, S3, ELB, Kinesis, Elastic Beanstalk, RDS, VPC, IAM Rules, SNS, Dynamo, Kinesis stream)    ASP.NET, MVC 5, ASP.NET Core, WCF, WEB API LINQ, ADO.NET, Web Services, EF5.0    Programming Languages C#4.0, VB.NET, VB, SQL, PL/SQL, T-SQL  Database MS SQL Server 2005,2008, 2008 R2, 2014 ORACLE 10g, 11c, Teradata  Scripting Languages GUI JavaScript, jQuery, Angular JS, XML HTML and CSS  ETL Tools Reporting Tools SSIS 2005,2008, Informatica SSRS 2005,2008  Tools  Visual studio 2005, 2008, 2010, 2013, 2015, Active Batch server, Visio and Fx Cop, TFS, Microsoft Visual SourceSafe, Control M, ServiceNow    Operating Systems Windows Family, Linux