Primary Developer Primary <span class="hl">Developer</span> Primary Developer North Chelmsford, MA I am a software professional with extensive knowledge and experience in developing, deploying and supporting core and integrated software products on multiple platforms, operating systems and programming languages.  • Software Development product expert at Senior and Principal levels. History of delivering quality software, leading and contributing throughout the product lifecyle using Agile or waterfall methodologies.  • Tier 3 Technical support at Senior and Principal levels. Resolved numerous serious customer issues through persistence and diligence. Specialized in work around scripting in lieu of product releases/patches. Particularly deep understanding of product databases.  • Services oriented experience (direct customer engagement). Excelled at understanding customer needs/issues and working with them to delivery/resolution.  • Excelled at communicating effectively with internal colleagues and customers.  • Provided accurate and concise task estimates, particulary under Agile.  • Driven technical leader, mentor and coach Work Experience Primary Developer Oracle HSGBU October 2014 to August 2019 October 2014 - August 2019  • Enhanced, fixed bugs and provided work arounds for a Windows web based integration product using MS Visual Studio/C#/.NET FW/ODP.NET with Oracle at the back end. Primary Developer for ports from Window 2003 (32b) to Windows 2008/2012 (64b), WSE to WCF, Unmanaged to Managed ODP.NET and Oracle (9i to 10g and 10g to 11g/12c). Modified installation using InstallShield and application code (UI and middle tier) as required for two releases and three patches which were delivered to the customer on time. Ensured that product complied with corporate security policies. Took lead in working with support, management, the customer, QA and services in providing patches and work arounds.  • Created, enhanced and tested Windows batch and chef scripts for pre-requsites, installation and upgrade for a Windows product suite in the Oracle Cloud.  • Utilized agile methodologies (scrum teams, epics/stories/sub-tasks). Technical Support Oracle HSGBU September 2008 to October 2014 Supported integrated and core products at the 3rd tier level. Created product defect, problem and knowledge management entries. Engaged with customers, development, tier 2 support, project managers, strategy and production (Oracle Cloud). Created workaround scripts and deployed as per audit and compliance requirements. Customer Engineer Vestmark April 2007 to June 2008 April 2007 - June 2008  • Responsible for implementation, installations, upgrades, etc. for a customer "pod" in a hosted environment. Worked closely with customer support, the customer relationship manager, management, the night crew (to ensure nightly jobs run to success) and engineering on issue resolution. Designed, implemented and maintained work-flows and maintained a custom installer. A key contributor IDE, Inc October 1998 to February 2007 with this "Start up", demonstrating versatility and adaptability in contributing to development and services for a Windows web based product and tools developed with VB/ASP, HTML (Javascript, VBScript), and Java under Oracle and SQLServer. Software Developer Consultant Fidelity Investments September 1996 to March 1998 • Co-designed and developed a software application for Y2K analysis using Microsoft VC++, utilized as part of a process to ensure Y2K compliance and "certification" of all company applications.  • Programmed and tested a GUI using Neuron Data for multiple Unix platforms on an Oracle DB. Analysed and resolved issues with "bridges" to middle-ware products (Tuxedo and ISIS). Created CShell scripts for internal tool-kits. Software Developer The Share Holder Services Group August 1994 to September 1996 Using Microsoft Visual C++, designed, developed and unit tested a Lex/Yacc based parser for extracting financial data from mutual fund trade information. Also participated in general software development, unit testing, etc. under Windows. Software Developer Consultant Electric Insurance November 1995 to February 1996 Designed, developed and unit tested a client/server application using Microsoft Visual C++, for entering customer insurance case data under a Sybase DB. Education Bachelor of Science in Industrial Science in Industrial Science Fitchburg State College Skills Microsoft sql server, Sql server, Oracle, Sql, Sybase, .net, Microsoft visual studio, Visual studio, C#, C/c++, C++, Fortran, Javascript, Scripting, Svn, Vbscript, Asp, Installshield, Sdlc, Linux, HTML, XML Additional Information CORE COMPETENCIES  • Languages (High level and Scripting) - C#, Java, Javascript, VB, VBScript, C/C++, Batch, Unix Shell, Fortran  • Operating Systems - Windows, Linux, Unix  • Databases - Oracle, Microsoft SQL Server, Sybase, Access  • IDEs - MicroSoft Visual Studio (.NET FW, Managed and Unmanaged ODP.NET, ASP, etc.), NetBeans  • SDLC - Agile (Scrum), Waterfall  • Applications/Tools - InstallShield, Tortoise SVN, SQLDeveloper, Oracle Enterprise Manager, Chef, Toad, Jira, WireShack, SOAPUI, Remedy, Confluence, Hudson, Fortify, Putty, OpenSource Software