Senior Software Consultant Senior <span class="hl">Software</span> Consultant Senior Software Consultant at Gilead Sciences Milpitas, CA • Nine years of experience in object-oriented programming and design.  • Eight years experience on .NET technologies such as CSharp, Win Forms, Web Services and ASP.NET.  • Has worked with users gathering and managing requirements.  • Familiar with C, C++, VC++, UNIX, Java.  • Experience with all software development lifecycle phases.  • Exceptional experience working in fast-paced, deadline-oriented environments.  TECHNICAL  SUMMARY  C#, Windows Applications, ASP.Net, Active Reports, Crystal Reports, Web Services, C, C++, Visual C++, Visual Studio, .NET Framework, SQL, SQL Server, WCF, LINQ, XML, XSLT, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Ajax, HTML5, Visio, Visual SourceSafe, Adobe Indesign, MS Office. Work Experience Senior Software Consultant Gilead Sciences - Foster City, CA February 2011 to Present Gilead Sciences, Inc. is a research-based biopharmaceutical company that discovers, develops and commercializes innovative medicines in areas of unmet medical needs.    Responsibilities  • Reengineering all layers, from database to user interface of a web based intranet application that manages the lifecycle of quality records produced during manufacturing and release of drug products to improve site performance.  • Oversee the development, code quality, and security of the application throughout the project life-cycle.  • Requirements gathering from users (customers) for development.  • Designed and developed a web portal to generate charts with Statistical Process Control Data and reports/metrics in various formats (pdf, excel, word) for use by management to monitor overall efficiency of manufacturing campaigns.  • Write Integration and Regression Test scripts.  Technologies Used: VS 2010, C#, ASP.Net, Active Reports, Crystal Reports, ADO.Net, Sql Server 2008, Java Script, CSS, Ajax, IIS 7. Senior Software Developer Investors Business Daily - Los Angeles, CA April 2004 to February 2011 Investors Business Daily, a national financial newspaper provides individuals and professionals with superior stock market information and critical analysis.    Responsibilities  • Performs the design and development of Windows applications and web applications and coding of software additions/enhancements using C#, ADO, Visual C++, ASP.Net, and SQL Server in a Windows application environment.  • Developed sophisticated financial software applications using Windows MDI forms in C#, .NET that were designed and implemented as user friendly and interactive.  • Performed Object oriented design-using UML.  • Performed analysis of data and developed coding logic for pattern recognition.  • Defining software testing procedures and analyzing results to characterize algorithm performance.  • Performed the automation of production processes and maintained data records and documentation on system.  • Research new tools and technologies that would satisfy requirements. Data Analyst LocatePlus.com - Beverly, MA September 2003 to April 2004 LocatePLUS.com, Inc. provides online investigative solutions.    Responsibilities  • Installed, configured and maintained Windows Servers and SQL database servers.  • Created SQL Stored Procedures and SQL scripts to be used for testing various database products. Intern Mercury Computer Systems, Inc - Chelmsford, MA February 2002 to September 2003 Mercury offers component-level and system-level solutions to customers across diverse industry segments including aerospace and defense, telecommunications, life sciences, energy, electronics manufacturing, and education and research.    Responsibilities  • Automated software tests using UNIX/Perl scripting and C, C++ programming.  • Upgraded, installed, configured and moved internal database servers.  • Performed Build Acceptance Testing, Regression Testing, Configuration testing on nightly software builds on various platforms (Linux, Windows XP/2000, Solaris, Vxworks) and manual testing.  • Troubleshot hardware, fixed bugs in Mercury OS, Executed manual tests, Created test results and timing reports for the development groups, and Generated Change Requests to report defects using Clarify application. Education Master of Science in Computer Science University of Massachusetts - Lowell, MA 2003 Bachelor of Technology in Computer Science G. Pulla Reddy Engineering College 2001 Assessments Problem Solving — Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to analyze relevant information when solving problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/pfhlafj0apvhc50y Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.