Contractor Contractor Contractor Pittsburgh, PA Work Experience Contractor ITStaffPro May 2019 to July 2019 Worked on a shipping application using AngularJS-bootstrap 1.5 to develop forms, directives, and controllers. Used Java 8 to develop microservices. Refactored AngularJS forms and controllers.    CompuGroup Technologies Software Developer Short Term February 2019 to April 2019 Worked on their commercial lending application in Angular 1.5 and Java 8. Modified reports and input screens. Added functionality to Java microservices. Software Developer Randstad - Pittsburgh, PA August 2018 to October 2018 Short Term)  Converted a Trailer (tractor-trailer) application to track trailers to FedEx coding standards. Documented REST API calls in the Angular frontend application to correlate them with service methods in the backend Java 8 application. Modified the Angular 1.5.x application to FedEx standards (logo, use FedEx directives, controller/serrvice/directives/filters to FedEx coding style and coding documantation). Sr. Software Develop Software Specialists - Pittsburgh, PA January 2017 to August 2018 Online application to monitor CPAP usage by patients for distributors. There is a distributor component that allows the distributor to add patients, see compliant and non-compliant patients, examine graphs and reports of usage. The administrative component allows Philips employees to add new distributors and users of the distributor component and give them permissions to allow or dis-allow users to see different parts of the distributor application.The applications communicate with a REST backend writer in Java 1.8 using Spring Boot and MongoDB. The endpoints return JSON, which the UI applications consume. I have modified Java microservices and refactored existing services. I have written several end points, although my focus has been mostly on the UI with AngularJS. We use AngularJS 1.5 for our development and plan to switch to Angular 2 in the next year (I am teaching myself Angular 2 to be ready for the transition). We use bootstrap CSS (LESS) for HTML formatting. We use the ui-router and uib directives. I have developed or modified directives, services, filters, controllers (including adding an extensive controller to a directive that only had a link component. We use grunt to build (eslint, uglify) and test (karma, jasmine), run development servers against different environments. I have written node scripts to find strings in multiple project using git grep, and pull the latest git versions from repositories over different projects. I also use markdown-html and pug to generate documentation. I use MacOS and use many command line utilities, include bash shell scripts, node scripts, awk and git as well as others.    Issue tracking with Rally.    The teams use Agile development methods and two-week Sprints. Sr. Software Engineer SciQuest Inc - Pittsburgh, PA June 2014 to October 2016 Online reverse auction e-commerce application. The user can submit bids on items (lowest bid wins). The user can sort on all columns. When the user submits bids they are validated by customer defined rules (including not increasing bid). When a bid passes validation it is saved to the database. The bidder receives color-coded feedback as to how their bid falls among all bids (the closest bid is green, etc.). Security: Oauth to authenticate users, prepared SQL statements to prevent SQL injection, users are authorized to access only certain areas of the application (Buyer Administrators can access all areas), not all buyer users can access all areas of the application, sellers are limited to bidding and reports showing their bids, bid status, and ranking. Buyers have access to extensive reports, including bids on items, suppliers participating, items with and without bids. Bidding is limited to a time range and bids are prevented when the time range is complete. Integration with RESTful Java Web Services.    Development in Core Java of Java RESTful Web Services (returning JSON) using Spring 4.2.x and 4.3.x incorporating dependency injection, transaction management using AOP. Unit testing with JUnit and Spring annotations. Hibernate ORM and Hibernate Validator to access MySQL databases. Hibernate unit testing with Spring, Hibernate, and JUnit against a freshly loaded test database. During development software is built using Ant and later Maven in Eclipse. Automated builds and tests using Bamboo.    Writing a JavaScript application using AngularJS, jQuery, jQuery UI sortable, Bootstrap, HTML5, LESS, and Kendo grids and charts. Developed directives, controllers (both scoped and non-scoped), filters, services, and factories. Utilize bower and node's npm to install components. Use several angular plugins: angular-dragdrop, angular-ui-router, angular-bootstrap, angular-ui-sortable. Use gulp for builds, development server, proxy server, minification, and running end to end (Protractor) tests. Use Karma and Jasmine for unit tests. Use Git and Subversion for source code control. Automated builds and tests using Bamboo.    Issue tracking using Jira and documentation using Confluence.    Development done in an Agile/Scrum environment. Software Engineer Pro Staffing Solutions - Pittsburgh, PA October 2013 to June 2014 Writing Java Servlets and JavaScript for a web application to allow family members of inmates to get services for them.  Developed JUnit tests. Wrote services to transfer data using XML. Used JSP, Hibernate, and Spring and Oracle. Build software using Ant. Interfaced Java services with Android devices. Duquesne Light May 2013 to August 2013 Developed ColdFusion application to track customer's choice of Electricity Generation Supplier. Worked with a mainframe developer to diagnose problems with a Visual Basic application communicating with a mainframe. Consultant Testa Consulting - Pittsburgh, PA February 2013 to August 2013 BNY Mellon February 2013 to April 2013 Developed Junit tests for an application that processes transactions between banks. Also added processing to main application to handle end of day and start of day transactions. Worked with a team in New York City to develop tests for transaction processing. Senior Software Engineer LoudMountain - Pittsburgh, PA July 2011 to February 2013 Developed a candidate tracking web based application in Grails, features include:    Ability to enter jobs using ckeditor to allow word processor style formatting for display on public web site    Ability to track all phases of candidate submission to a job (e.g. Initial Submission, Phone Screen, Interview, Offer, Acceptance of Offer, Placement, or Rejection)    Entry of candidate demographic, skill (multiple), job role (multiple), and job history, uploading/downloading of multiple resumes and cover letters    Reporting dashboard to show candidate submissions and statistics for each phase by current day, month, year, or since the application was created    Ajax driven form elements (adding table rows, deleting data)    JavaScript - prevent duplicate form submission, calculate fees, add/delete rows in a table, enable/disable form elements    JQuery  Developed unit tests to test domain models, controllers, and services Principal Software Engineer Penthera Partners - Pittsburgh, PA January 2011 to June 2011 Developed scripts in Ruby/Rails for data loading and extraction    Developed a solution for uniquely creating unique valid file paths for data containing non-ASCII text and other non-valid path characters using SHA-1 and filtered text.    Extensively modified tests using Cucumber and made them run automatically using CruiseControl    Created unit tests for Ruby/Rails scripts using Rspec with model classes created by Factory Girl    Modified Java/Hibernate model classes with new properties and functionality    Utilized Spring framework to run application for loading new media content into a content provider network system    Implemented Java solutions to upload content using FTP and Amazon Web Services    Utilized Ruby gems/technology including: Bundler, Capistrano, Autospec, Yaml, Factory Girl, Rails 2.3.9    Utilized Java libraries including: Hibernate, Spring, HopToad, Commons Net, Amazon S3    Database technology: Postgres for both Ruby and Java    Source Code Management using: git and github Consultant SDLC Partners - Monroeville, PA July 2010 to January 2011 Workflow development lead - assigned development tasks, reported status, developed components    Wrote a JavaScript dollar mask to only allow entry of digits and decimal point, while inserting commas as needed    Wrote a JavaScript percent mask to only allow entry of digits and decimal point    Implemented a workaround for the Internet Explorer select dropdown width limitation using HTML and JavaScript    Developed JavaServer Faces GUI front-ends with Java backing beans    Maintained Spring services, DAOs, and DTOs    Created Hibernate queries Sr. Software Developer McKesson, Inc. High Volume Pharmacy Systems - Coraopolis, PA March 2003 to July 2010 Requirements analysis, design, and development for enhancements and new modules for high volume mail order pharmacy application (Java and C). Provide input on feasibility of implementing new functions against the current code base.    Implemented Spring services utilizing Hibernate for persistence for MailRx prescription and order processing layers of our application.    Implemented Web front-ends in JavaScript, HTML, and GWT.    Configured JBoss server and deployed applications to it.    Wrote JavaScript enabled web pages for our new web based pharmacy order front end. CSS is used for styling the pages. DWR is used to transmit data to the Spring enabled backend.    Created a database schema difference tool in Java that compares two databases and reports differences in tables, existence of tables/indexes between the two databases, and index differences.    Designed and Developed a demo of retail pharmacy application (in Java and Swing). Sales team has given glowing reviews of the effectiveness of this demo as a selling tool.  Designed and developed Linux port of the C application screens. Analyzed code for incompatibilities with AIX and modified source to be compatible with both AIX and Linux.    Designed and Developed, in Java, the file integrity check portion of the automated build - generated XML lists of differing files utilizing the md5 algorithm to quickly compare two copies of the same binary or source code for differences.    Automated the build of the C data entry screens - used a combination of C programs and Bourne shell scripts which utilized sed and awk to parse the Makefiles. These 10-12 year old legacy C applications were not configured for automated building. Utilized the AIX nm utility to discover library which library defined which function and then generated a list of dependencies between the C screen libraries. Created lists of all dependencies for each application. Generated new makefiles with all dependencies included for each application by reading existing makefiles and extracting targets to include in the newly generated makefile.    Asked by the Director of our sales team to create an Access application to track the sales pipeline. The sales director pitched the application to the Vice President of Sales for the corporate wide sales pipeline software. Since my main responsibilities were in the development of our MailRx mail order pharmacy product a commercial package was ultimately chosen.    Worked with customers to configure import/export applications for EDI and Rx. These applications are typically configured differently for each client. Our customer support analysts in charge of installing and configuring the MailRx application for new customers reported far fewer problems than in past installations.    Developed unit testing modules in C, Java, and the Bourne shell. Including: wrote tests to insure that duplicate patient, policies, and prescriptions were not loaded in the prescription import application. Validated prescriptions for valid drugs. Duplicates and other import errors were stored in an error table to allow tracking and correcting data errors in the import.    Took the initiative to document existing modules that I have made major modifications to describe process flow and configuration,. These documents have decreased the support requests by our system installers and made maintaining the code much simpler. Modified the in-house created green-screen code generator to add comments and code formatting to improve maintainability.    Utilized source code control systems (Subversion, CVS, and SourceSafe). Merge changes into the four different versions of our product (when appropriate) using the ediff merge tool in Emacs.    Create development checklists of features to insure that all required features are implemented in my customizations. Sr. Software Developer Ectobox, Inc - Pittsburgh, PA 2001 to March 2003 Created requirements and design documents, after meeting customers.  Utilized Word 2000 VBA to automate a bill of lading form drawing data from the customer's database shipping database.  Created software to import/export EDI files, imported Invoices/Advanced Shipment, exported Purchase Orders. Used COM objects and Visual Basic classes to implement import/export and business logic.  Utilized Excel 2000 VBA to automate a manufacturer's job quote generation. Extracted job quote data from an Access 2000 database.  Created applications in Access 2000 using VBA , forms, and reports. Including:    Retirement contribution track for a foundation, license renewal notification for a law firm's clients, customized an accounting application (developed in Access 2000) for a mail order company.  Created ASP web sites using VBScript/COM objects including: shopping cart site for a dance-wear manufacturer and a industrial sign manufacturer.  Created COM objects for use in Visual Basic applications utilizing ADO 2.6 for database communication.  Setup and maintained (users, groups, permissions) a small network of Windows 2000 computers. Sr. Software Developer/ Team Leader Schwoo, Inc - Pittsburgh, PA 2000 to 2001 Senior developer for the Message Router Team (later team leader after the team lead was promoted).    Mentored junior developers in C++ and Unix  Created programs/ shell scripts for unit testing.    Met with other team leaders to coordinate development of interfaces between the central Message Router and other applications (System Monitor, Decision Engine; Data Store)  Created many key classes for the Message Router application, including classes that implemented:    - in process message queuing - with error checking    -persistent queues (wrote message queue to disk);  -created wrapper class for IBM MQSeries message queue so that it could be used interchangeably with the in process message queue class    - inter-process communication via CORBA    - reading of Windows NT event logs    - Parse and create configuration files    -Log application events Sr. Software Developer Spider Technologies, Inc - Pittsburgh, PA 1998 to 2000 http://www.spidertech.com  Consulted with clients to determine requirements and assess applicable technologies.  Developed ASP based web projects using VBScript and ADO.  Developed Access 2000 applicant tracking application for a temporary agency  Designed Visual Basic 6.0 application for a logistics company to track their shipments  Team leader of logistics project, with two other programmers.  Developed EDI module to process Invoices, Purchase Orders, Advanced Shipment Notice, Functional Acknowledgments, Application Advice, and Shipment Status Messages. The EDI module sent data to railroads about shipments. Created Visual Basic 6.0 COM objects to support ASP applications (database access)  Designed and developed databases in SQLServer 7.0/Access 2000  Developed T-SQL stored procedures to speed processing of database accesses.  Developed SQLServer triggers to enforce referential integrity of data  Research on remote database update over the Web. Sr. Software Engineer Lycos, Inc - Pittsburgh, PA 1996 to 1998 Designed, coded in Pro*C, and tested the Oracle 8i database to store our catalog URLs and text summaries.  Developed utilities in C to extract catalog records based on various criteria (domain, file extension of URL, if visited by our spider)  Created a script to process the catalog merge (old catalog data with newly spidered data). By breaking the catalog into segments it was able to utilize the multi-processor capabilities of the Digital Alpha server. Decreased processing time by 75%.  Rapidly developed modules to meet changing needs of a web startup. I implemented a classifier to segregate adult content from general content in three days.  Mentored others in advanced C concepts (pointers, socket programming, threading), shell scripting (Bourne/Korn/Bash shell scripting and sed, awk, and perl) Sr. Software Developer Serviceware, Inc - Pittsburgh, PA 1995 to 1996 Responsible for development, testing, and installation of customizations to the Expert Adviser Help Desk application.  Traveled to the customer's site throughout the United States to install the customizations and train the users on the customizations.  Helped a customer achieve Showcase status from Software Artisans ( developer of Expert Adviser) by providing quality customizations to the customer's specifications. Help Desk application 1990 to 1996 Wrote store sales and store tracking applications in Informix 4GL.  Rewrote a modem communications script (Bourne shell) to allow dial-ups at the corporate office to stores and better user tracking.  Wrote a perl script to add aliasing to an older Unix mail application that lacked it. This script also stripped out extraneous characters, such terminal arrow keys and function keys.  Rewrote a Time and Attendance application in ESQL/C communicating with an Informix database. Application read data from time clocks and transmitted it to headquarters where it was inserted into an Informix database. Programmer Analyst III Giant Eagle, Inc - Pittsburgh, PA 1989 to 1995 Programmer Analyst III/Team Leader FlexRX, Inc 1992 to 1994 FlexRX - mail order pharmacy/division of Giant Eagle, thus the overlap in dates with Giant Eagle.  Joined a project to seriously overdue the pharmacy system rewrite. Application was completed on deadline.  Team leader - eligibility team - two team other members. Assigned tasks, monitored work for compliance to requirements and standards.    Met with the business eligibility team to create application requirements.  Designed and coded eligibility module to query insurance companies for patient eligibility (coverage, dollar limits, deductible, and drug coverage).  An initial implementation was too slow in production, I rewrote the eligibility module to use a client/server approach. Each eligibility request went to a server and all connections and communications were done via the server to lessen load. Education B.S. in Computer Science The University of Pittsburgh 1992 Skills Awt, Eclipse, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jboss, Rmi, Jdbc, Access 2000, Mysql, Oracle, Postgres, Sql, Stored procedures, Sybase, Visual studio, Active server pages, Cucumber, Form design, Perl