Developer II <span class="hl">Developer</span> II Developer II - Hennepin County Saint Paul, MN Prefer web developer role due to my interest in Angular 8. I have excellent communication and leadership skills and I am a team player. I take pride that although most of my experience is software development I have many other valuable traits as well. I also want to be valued fairly for my 25 years of experience. The skills I enjoy utilizing the most are Angular, .Net Core and Azure. I have significant work from home experience and would welcome remote opportunities due to the fact that I have a home base in La Crosse, Wisconsin as well as St Paul, Minnesota.    Technical Highlights  Developer since 1994. Over a decade of working with SQL, TSQL and SQL Server, .NET, Web and Windows Forms development. Have very recent experience with Angular 7, .Net Core and MS Azure I have many years with ASP, ASP.NET, MVC, HTML, JavaScript, CSS, jQuery, Bootstrap, XAML, WPF. Have worked with both VB.NET and C#. SharePoint Administration and Development. Visual Studio 2013. ASP.NET MVC 5. Entity Framework 5.1. Experience creating Microsoft SSIS packages, SQL Reporting Services, Microsoft Access and Adobe LiveCycle. Content Management using Interwoven Team Site. I also have experience performing Administration tasks in IIS. My primary skillset is Microsoft. Net which I have been working with since 2003 using both VB.net and C#. My primary focus is first on Angular and secondarily .Net Core. Work Experience Developer II Hennepin County - Minneapolis, MN July 2015 to Present * Angular web developer with .Net Core Web Api and MS Azure.  * Lead .NET developer on a team that made custom form changes in C# .NET for SCSM and developed MVC web apps using C#, WebAPI, Web Service development and troubleshooting, CSS, Razor, Bootstrap and JQuery.  * Created SSIS packages for ETL processes.  * Created and supported Adobe Live Cycle Forms using JavaScript and workflow processes.    Technologies Used: Angular 8, Angular Material, .Net Core, Azure, IIS, Visual Studio 2013, SQL Server 2014, SSIS, Adobe Live Cycle, SCSM, C#, MVC, Bootstrap, TFS. Application Developer (Remote) Roehl Transport - Marshfield, WI July 2013 to April 2015 * Worked on multi-tier web and windows applications for a large transport company.  * Worked on agile sprint teams.  * On-call support rotation for the application development team.  * Worked with large team of developers using Team Foundation Server and Visual Studio 2013 and SQL Server 2012.  * Some applications are MVC 4.0 with Entity Framework and some are ASP.NET 2.0 web applications.  * Wrote SQL queries and stored procedures including TQL transactions.    Technologies Used: Visual Studio 2013, SQL Server 2014, C#, MVC, Windows Forms, Infragistics, jQuery, HTML, CSS, Agile, Sprint Teams, TFS. IT Analyst/ Developer City of Rochester - Rochester, MN February 2010 to July 2013 * Responsible for developing, implementing and maintaining applications for various City departments.  * Work with departmental staff to design, build, implement and deploy applications.  * Manage the City's internet/intranet websites.  * Primary tools and technologies used are C#, Interwoven Teamsite CMS, ASP.NET, SQL Server 2008, HTML, JavaScript/jQuery and CSS.  * Microsoft SharePoint 2010 Administrator and Developer.  * Was primary person responsible for setting up governance and creating teamsites and publishing portals and workflows for the city of Rochester, MN.  * Created Sharepoint Application for Public Safety.  * Developed Web Applications with ASP.NET MVC 4 and C# along with JQuery, JSON, ORM such as Code First, Entity Framework.  * Worked with System Admins to help setup SQL Server Cluster Services and perform DBA tasks.  * Visual Studio 2012.  * Source Control using Team Foundation Server.  * Windows Server Administration tasks including configuring IIS for web applications.    Technologies Used: Visual Studio 2012, SQL Server 2008, Interwoven Teamsite CMS, SSIS, Sharepoint 2010, Sharepoint Designer, MVC, HTML, CSS. .NET Developer II Lender Processing Services - Mendota Heights, MN June 2008 to February 2010 * Enhance and support VB.NET applications using Visual Studio 2005 to process bankruptcy and foreclosure information for major banks.  * Emphasis on writing complex stored procedures in SQL Server 2005.  * Complex queries consisting of multiple joins against SQL Server database tables.  * Work with multiple developers in a team environment.  * Create SQL scripts to handle importing and exporting large amounts of data.    Technologies Used: Visual Studio 2008, SQL Server 2008, VB.Net, Winforms Application Developer II United HealthGroup - Onalaska, WI October 2007 to April 2008 * Analyze and debug complex issues VB 6 EDI applications.  * Develop VB.NET and C# applications and SQL Server DTS packages to import and process insurance claims.  * DTS scripts import data from text files to SQL Server database tables and the VB.NET application processes the information and sends it back to the customer via FTP to a mainframe system.  * Developed windows application assemblies in C#.  * Developed SQL reports.  * Fixed existing problems and added new features to Cobra Insurance web pages.    Technologies Used: Visual Studio 2008, SQL Server 2008, ASP.Net, VB.Net, Visual Basic 6. Software Developer Logistics Health Inc - La Crosse, WI September 2004 to October 2007 * Created ASP.NET web applications using VB.NET with Microsoft.NET framework 2.0.  * Web projects included corporate Intranet, corporate Internet websites for US Military and websites for the United States Postal Service.  * VB.NET for windows projects include LHI corporate system working on middle tier business logic and SQL Server 2005.  * SQL Reporting Services as well as Crystal Reports.  * IIS 6.0 Administration.  * Lead Web Developer.    Technologies Used: Visual Studio 2008, SQL Server 2008, ASP.Net, VB.Net, HTML, CSS, Javascript, SQL Reporting Services. Asp.NET Consultant Telmark Sales - Appleton, WI November 2003 to September 2004 * IIS 6.0 Administration, Windows 2003.  * Lead other developers on a project for a large food services corporation.  * SQL Server 2000 Asp.NET programming using Microsoft.NET framework 1.1  * Photoshop 7 and Flash web graphics.  * Utilized Requirements and Analysis skills.    Technologies Used: Visual Studio 2003, SQL Server 2000, ASP.Net, VB.Net, HTML, CSS, Javascript. consultant December 1994 to October 2003 Dec 1994 - Oct 2003  I started working in 1994 as an intern and went on to work for several companies specializing in MS Access, Asp, Asp.NET, Visual Basic and SQL. I have worked for 3 healthcare organizations and have worked as a consultant/contractor in several situations and have also been part owner of a dot com startup company working as a web developer. Education Computer Information Systems Western Technical College - La Crosse, WI 1995 Skills Javascript, XML, HTML, Jquery