Manager, Bioinformatics Manager, Bioinformatics megomah@gmail.com McLean, VA Experienced Healthcare IT leader with over 14 years of experience in the Hospital & Clinical Laboratory environments. Excellent team builder with a natural ability to select members with good chemistry and complimentary skillsets to fulfill desired objectives. Customer oriented and work well with stakeholders in understanding, interpreting, translating, and fulfilling their requirements. Strong Health Informatics professional with experience in Bioinformatics, Data Analysis, Clinical Decision Support, Technology Research, Business Process Improvement, Clinical Data Management, and Scientific Data Management. Possess solid experience in Healthcare IT Security in compliance with HIPAA regulations and data messaging standards such as HL7. Possess working knowledge in Healthcare coding standards (SNOMED, LOINC, and CPT). Strong leader with formal education in Biology, Chemistry, Computer Science, Mathematics, and Health Informatics providing a unique ability to bridge disciplines and communicate well with Medical, IT, and Business professionals equally. Strategic thinker and planner always seeking to develop novel solutions to challenging problems with the goal of making a meaningful impact. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Manager, Bioinformatics Quest Diagnostics - Chantilly, VA June 2010 to Present Responsibilities include technology research, solutions architecture, business analysis, project management, resource management, and product ownership. Work with large teams on enterprise projects. Work with stakeholders on formulating project scopes and understanding and collecting requirements. Design scalable solutions for project implementations and work with enterprise architects in building technical specifications for execution of these projects. Work with project managers in building task lists and, throughout duration of projects, ensure the completion of deliverables.    -Recruited, on-boarded, and trained junior developers for bioinformatics roles on my team. Hand-picked team based on a good balance of technical skills and subject matter knowledge. Needed developers who can question the content and specifications with which they are working. They are widely successful in their respective roles today.   -Designed a universal test code structure to solve a complex problem of accommodating discrete result for lab tests that have variable number of result components and lab tests that would require thousands of result components such as NGS. It can be used by any lab test developed, regardless of its complexity, and provides a corresponding standardized HL7 messaging schema to allow for fully parse-able discrete result reporting.  -Designed a genomic database, to not just store genomic data, but also to aggregate data points based upon similarity for visualizing pattern developments over time. This helps greatly in new variant discoveries especially with variants of unknown significance.   -Designed a “gateway” link between multiple Quest Diagnostics sites for test send-outs. The premise was to provide accession linkage between source and destination sites and solve a longstanding problem of not having enough client information at the destination (performing) site.  -Built workflow for Histology department to automate processing and tracking of tissue samples.    Career Progression:  June 2010 – January 2015: Project Manager, Pathology and Laboratory Operations Application Systems Analyst University of Texas M D Anderson Cancer Center - Houston, TX March 2005 to April 2010 Responsibilities included data analysis, data modeling, technology research, business analysis, product ownership, software architecture, and software development. Designed data and software solutions for the Division of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine. Published an academic paper on "Modeling the Complex Workflow in Molecular Diagnostics: Design Specifications of Laboratory Software for Support of Personalized Medicine"    -Designed and developed full LIMS (Laboratory Information Management System) scalable solution to automate workflow and data processing for the Molecular Diagnostics laboratory. Designed and developed a database to consolidate and store all data developed by the department. Designed and developed a user application as modular components that can be modified, updated, or replaced seamlessly with virtually no downtime for the lab - housed in a secure container application.   -Published an academic paper on the LIMS product and the approach taken to develop it, titled "Modeling the Complex Workflow in Molecular Diagnostics: Design Specifications of Laboratory Software for Support of Personalized Medicine".     Career Progression:  2007 - 2009; Programmer Analyst II, Laboratory Informatics  2005 - 2007; Programmer Analyst I, Laboratory Informatics Software Developer Foxconn Corp - Houston, TX May 2004 to March 2005 Developed software solutions for managing high volume business from customers of Foxconn.Supported and enhanced workflows of 2 major manufacturing lines improving turnaround times.Interfaced with global business managers providing operational reports on monthly intervals.  Education Master's in Health Informatics University of Texas Health Science Center - Houston, TX Bachelor's in Computer Science and Mathematics University of Houston - Houston, TX Bachelor's in Biology, Chemistry (Double Major) Houston Baptist University - Houston, TX Skills Health Informatics (10+ years), Bioinformatics (10+ years), Data Management (10+ years), Data Analysis (5 years), Databases (10+ years), Data Mining (5 years), SQL (10+ years), .NET (8 years), Software Development (8 years), System Administration (2 years), Project Management (5 years), Project Development (10+ years), Project Planning (10+ years), Project Coordination (10+ years), Microsoft Office (10+ years), Solutions Architecture (10+ years), Management (9 years), HL7 (10+ years), Healthcare Information Technology (10+ years), Research (10+ years), Python (2 years), Agile (2 years), Business Analysis (10+ years), Strategic Planning (10+ years), People Management (4 years), Analytics (10+ years) Certifications/Licenses Microsoft Certified IT Professional, Database Developer (MCITP) 2007 to Present Microsoft Certified Database Administrator (MCDBA) 2006 to Present Microsoft Certified Solutions Developer (MCSD (.NET)) 2006 to Present Certified ScrumMaster (CSM) June 2011 to Present Publications Journal of Molecular Diagnostics http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2797718/ 2010-01 Modeling the Complex Workflow in Molecular Diagnostics: Design Specifications of Laboratory Software for Support of Personalized Medicine