Senior Android Developer Senior Android <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Android Developer Remote With 9+ years of mobile development experience, I routinely focus on development best practises and recommended android architecture to create robust, testable, and maintainable apps.  Currently working as a remote developer as part of a distributed team and interested in joining a team (preferably, remote-friendly) with a goal I can really get behind. Work Experience Senior Android Developer Complex Media - New York, NY 2017 to Present Developed an event-based app for culture festival celebrating music, sneakers and art   • Integrated jetpack architecture, utilizing MVVM pattern.  • App reached into the Top 10 free event apps on the US Play Store.  • Ported core features to Flutter. Android Developer Verizon Hearst Media Partners - New York, NY 2016 to 2017 Developed video-first digital media app targeting android mobile and TV platforms   • Integrated ExoPlayer for HLS playback.  • Optimised memory for videos in endless scrolling.  • Developed TV app using Google support lean back libraries.  • Integrated ads for monetization (experience with both client-side and server-side ad-insertion,   integrating ad networks like double click, verizon media) Android Developer Hearst Digital Studios 2015 to 2016 • Developed subscription-based app with video content. Tech Lead NewGenApps 2012 to 2014 • Built cutting edge android apps targeting different categories for startups, entrepreneurs.   These included single-purpose kiosk-mode app to app for sky-typing.  • Collaborated with cross-functional teams to define and develop new features.  • Provided support and troubleshooting assistance to the delivery teams. Senior Software Developer NewGenApps 2009 to 2011 • Participated in full android agile development lifecycle.  • Developed prototypes, proof of concepts, and feasibility studies during early Android adoption.  • Ported apps from iOS to Android and, for a short while, developed iOS apps (using Objective C) winning awards like App Store Rewind. Software Developer Infosys 2005 to 2009 • Worked as part of large teams on technologies Java, J2EE and SQL.   • Won Spot, Platina Individual Award for individual contribution. Education Bachelor's in Computer Science 2001 to 2005 Skills Android, Kotlin, Java, Flutter, Retrofit, LiveData, Robolectric, RxJava, Dependency Injection, REST, Espresso, Git, Material Design, SCRUM, JSON, JIRA, Unit Testing, JUnit, Gson, MVP/MVVM, Dagger, ButterKnife, Data Binding, Agile