Role Engineer- Software Developer II Role Engineer-<span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> II Senior Software Engineer Dallas, TX LinkedIn:www.linkedin.com/in/martin-mathew-1b20298  Blog: https://www.tumblr.com/blog/solutionsintroductiontoalgorithm    Software Engineer with thorough hands-on experience in developing enterprise-grade highly scalable software applications. Willing to take ownership of core components. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Role Engineer- Software Developer II Securus Technologies January 2018 to Present Location Carrollton, TX    Project: Securus Communication Platform  Description: Its Securus's flagship product which allows SIP based IP Telephony. It provides a seamless integration between IP and PSTN. The platform provides an end to end solution for the communications needs of the customer which includes SIP based Hardware phones and Softphone clients,Signalling ,Media Streaming,Call control,Recording. It also provides Video call facility for people with special needs.    Responsibility: Design and Development  ? Responsible for SIP Signalling server , Call control  ? Designed and developed an Android Based Softphone  ? Implemented webrtc based solution for video calls  Environment: JAVA/JEE, SIP/RTP , Android, Asterisk PBX, Rest Services, Microservices,Spring  Development Methodology: Agile Scrum Role Engineer- Software Verizon Wireless - Irving, TX August 2016 to December 2017 Project: Fios IPTV  Description: The project aims to Provide QAM like Video Experience over IP. The project has microservices based architecture.    Responsibility: Design and Development  ? Designed and implemented the orchestration layer.  ? Implemented key features for Maestro like Channel upgrades, payload optimizations.  ? Implemented Rest endpoints for delivering metadata for Music Videos, trailers  ? Implemented features to improve User Experience for Verizon FIOS  ? Worked on Performance and scalability aspects  Environment: Scala, Core Java, JEE, AWS,Docker, Functional Programming, AKKA, Play Framework, Rest Services, Microservices  Development Methodology: Agile Scrum Engineer Software Cisco Systems - San Jose, CA February 2015 to July 2016 Project: Application Centric Cloud (Infrastructure as a Service)  Description: It's a platform for Infrastructure provisioning on the cloud. It follows a top down approach to define the cloud as opposed to the bottom up approach used with infrastructure centric cloud. With top down approach we first define the application, then define the platform needed by the application and finally the computing infrastructure for the platform. This approach improves auto scaling and fault tolerance of the application, based on different events generated by the monitoring subsystems    Responsibility: Design and Development  ? Implemented the Front End and the Middle Layer.  ? Designed and implemented Rest Endpoints.  ? Designed ORM Entities.  ? Implemented Rest and Soap Client to other Subsystems.  Environment: Java 1.7, OpenStack, Spring, Python 2.7,JPA (Hibernate), AngularJS, JavaScript, Rest Services, Oracle 11g,Elasticsearch,Microservices  Development Methodology: Agile Scrum Lead Software Engineer Huawei Technologies Co LTD - Shenzhen, CN January 2011 to February 2015 Project: SPLAT (Special Policy Language and Translation) SDN Platform  Description: SPLAT SDN is a management plane over the traditional network, which enables the service provider to configure the network in terms of services. The SDN platform takes care of deploying the actual device level configuration to deliver these services. This helps avoiding pervasive manual device configuration and ad hoc scripting, and improves time to market and reduces the OPEX for the service provider.    Responsibility: Design and Development  ? Responsible for the Network computational tier Module. This layer provided the South Bound API's which interacted with the actual network.  ? Involved in high-level and low-level design of application.  ? Designed and implemented Rest End points for the Client Interface.  ? Developed JUNIT test cases for all the DAO, service classes.  ? Developed build scripts using Maven.  ? Used Cruise Control server for the Continuous Integration.    Environment: Java 1.7 , Graph DB (Neo4j), Restful Web Services(Spring 4) ,Netconf,Yang, MAVEN, Spring, JMS(HornetQ),Microservices  Development Methodology: Agile Scrum    Project: UniBI (Unified Business Intelligence Platform)  Location: Bangalore ,India  Role: Lead Software Engineer    Description: UniBI is a BI solution platform, which spans across all five layers of the BI stack. It provides an end-to end BI solution and caters specifically to the needs of telecom operators. It includes a spectrum of tools to easily analyze, visualize, explore, and report which are open, embeddable and extensible.    Responsibilities: Design and Development  ? Responsible for ETL(Extract Transform and Load ) module of the platform.  ? Designed a plug-gable architecture, which allowed the secondary developers to add their own plugins over the platform.  ? Developed the Front END for the application using Mozilla XUL Framework.  ? Used Spring Framework for Dependency Injection and Hibernate for Object Relational Mapping (ORM).    Environment: Java 1.6, JavaScript, Standard Widget Toolkit, Mozilla's XULRunner, Hadoop, Hive MapReduce, Spring, Hibernate, ANT, OSGI,Microservices  Development Methodology: Agile Scrum.    Project: PIG Plugin  Location: Shenzhen , China  Role: Senior Software Engineer    Developed a PIG Plugin for Pentaho ETL. This plugin enables execution of PIG Script on Hadoop Cluster. This plugin allows ETL to perform Data Analysis on Hadoop.  Responsibilities: Design and Development  ? This was a research Project, came up with idea of implementing a PIG Plugin  ? This plugin enabled the ETL framework to use Hadoop cluster as Data Source.    Environment: Java 1.6, SWT , Apache PIG , Map Reduce,Hadoop. Senior Software Engineer SIT Mobile August 2008 to December 2010 Awarded for Outstanding Overall Performance for the year 2009    Project: XSIT 2  This is an SMPP SMS gateway. It provides an intelligent routing mechanism for the message depending on different parameters, such as country and type of message. It also provides a messaging solution by providing a platform through which the client can send bulk messages to the end user. This application takes care of routing through the best possible route, ensuring timely delivery of messages and shielding the user from the complexity of message delivery.  Responsibility: Design and Development:  ? Served as the Development lead for the entire project.  ? Re factored the entire application from a Monolithic design to Distributed and component based architecture.  ? Designed the application to be scalable.  ? Developed JDBC DAOs wrote advanced SQL and PL/SQL stored procedures on database systems.    Environment: Java 1.6, JMS (Fuse 5.0.029), My SQL, SMPP, XML, JAXB, Software Engineer Persistent Systems Ltd June 2007 to May 2008 Project: Mobile Number Portability Application for Australia (MNPAA)  This MNP Australia application allows clients (QoS) to send DNS (ENUM style) queries over UDP and find out which operator a certain MSISDN (mobile number) belongs to. MNPAA interacts with the paradigm. One data feed servers at regular configured intervals to import update on ported mobile numbers.    Role: Design and Development:  ? Implemented the Module, which interacted with the network operators servers to receive the update on the ported number.  ? Implemented the module, which serves the SMS gateway with the operator ID for the requested Mobile Number.  ? Embedded the SNMP agent in the application, which provided the status of the application using SNMP Traps.  ? Used MULE ESB to connect different components of the application.  ? Deployed the application on Apache Tomcat.  ? Developed build scripts using apache ant.  ? Implemented the SOAP Interfaces for the Number Portability Services    Technology: Core Java 1.5, Servlets 2.3, Mule ESB, SNMP,SOAP Web services    Project: Asterix PBX Services  Role: Developer  This project basically enables an organization to provide PBX functionalities such as voicemail and call conferencing through a Web interface. The User can listen to his voicemail or set up a conference among SIP-enabled phones through a web interface.  Role: Development:  ? Wrote an overlay over the PBX server, which would enable services like Call conference through a web interface.  ? Configured the PBX to for conference.  ? Developed a Web based management plane over the PBX , which would allow the user to set up conference call over the web.    Environment: Java 1.5, Mobicents (JBoss), Asterix PBX Academic Projects Georgia Institute of Technology August 2018 Off campus , 4.0 till date)  Course Projects: Portfolio(Financial Stocks) Optimization and Stock Price Prediction  Description: Developed a machine learning projects which predicts the optimal allocation of stocks in a portfolio maximised for Sharpe Ratio to maximise returns and minimize the risk. Developed an Unsupervised learner which helps predict the movement of stock prices.  Key Skill: Python 2.7 ,Pandas, Numpy , SciPY ,Linear Regression, Regression Learner(Q Learner),Decision Tree, Important stock market concepts Education MS CS in CS Georgia Institute of Technology August 2018 to Present B.Tech(BS) in Computer Science and Engineering Army Institute of Technology (Pune University) April 2007 Skills ECLIPSE, JAVA, HIBERNATE, SPRING, JBOSS, JMS, jQuery, SERVLETS, DATA STRUCTURES, REST, SOFTWARE ENGINEERING, DESIGN PATTERNS, DOCKER, Git, GRADLE, Hadoop, Hive, JAVASCRIPT, OAUTH, OBJECT ORIENTED, Algorithms, Machine Learning (Less than 1 year), Regression Learning, Python, Linux, Scala Links https://www.tumblr.com/blog/solutionsintroductiontoalgorithm Additional Information Core Technical Skills  Data Structures and Algorithms, Functional Programming, Socket Programming, Scala, Python, Core Java, Multithreading, Microservices,Object Oriented Analysis and Design(OOPS), Design Patterns, Angularjs, JavaScript , JQuery, Networking, Software Engineering, Linux ,SQL, JEE, JMS, ESB, Machine Learning,Docker,Microservices,OpenStack, OAuth 2.0, Hadoop, Hive,UML  Linear Regression, Regression Learning(Q Learner),Decision Trees, Python , Pandas,Numpy , Scipy    Web technologies /Frameworks Spring (DI, MVC, Boot,DATA, Security),REST Services, Play, Hibernate, JPA Servlets, OSGI(Component Framework)  Operating systems Windows, Linux  Servers Jetty Server, JBoss, Tomcat  Databases/Frameworks MySQL, Oracle ,, Postgres, MSSQL,MongoDB,ORM(Hibernate,JPA)  Protocols SMPP, CIMD, UCP, SNMP,NetConf, SIP,RTP  MOM (JMS) Apache Activemq, Fuse, Hornet Q  Development Platform Software Development Methodologies Eclipse, NetBeans, IntelliJ Agile/Scrum, Devops,Iterative, Waterfall  Versioning Systems CVS, SVN, Clearcase, GIT  Build Tools Ant, Maven, CruiseControl(Continuous Integration),Gradle