Sr. Software Engineer Sr. <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Sr. Software Engineer Mountlake Terrace, WA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Software Engineer Rooster Park - Seattle, WA August 2018 to July 2019 Contract position working at Premera Blue Cross in Mountlake Terrace, WA.  • Built Web Services on the Microsoft Azure Platform for communication between client systems and third party services.  • Services built using C#, .Net Core 2.0 and Asp.Net MVC framework  • Deployed and managed through VSTS/Azure DevOps, Powershell and Azure Web Interface  • Communication with third party services using both SOAP and REST infrastructures Sr. Software Engineer OpenEye, Inc - Spokane, WA January 2015 to August 2018 OpenEye is the leading innovator in the world of Digital Video Surveillance systems and software. OpenEye manufactures top-of-the-line Network Video Recorders, IP Cameras, and sensor peripherals. At OpenEye my role is to build and manage a web-based solution for managing full video surveillance systems and installations for distributors of our product line.  • Developed web services-based solution for managing clients and systems for distributors and solution providers  • Developed white label site where our channel partners can provide our same services as an OEM  • Built systems using Java SE 8, MySQL, and Spring MVC Framework  • Systems ran on Apache Tomcat; servers ran on AWS EC2  • Systems also utilized Amazon Kinesis for processing data sent to our servers from individual NVRs (used for our reporting infrastructure) Sr. Software Engineer Docusign, Inc - Seattle, WA August 2013 to November 2014 Docusign is the leading provider of electronic signature and digital transaction management solutions to businesses and individuals in the world. Docusign's solution for document management and digital signatures is secure, legally proven, and available in 43 languages and over 180 countries. I was part of the Platform Engineering and Architecture team and worked on a variety of projects centering on platform stabilization, availability, reliability, and transaction management.  • Worked on system to manage and store over one billion blobs (Binary Large Objects) which included high-level encryption and multiple layers of data hashing and validation  • Managed push notification system to update customers on status of transactions and documents within our system  • Built end-to-end Pub/Sub system from scratch, capable of processing 30 messages/sec/CPU  • Systems written in C# and connected to SQL Server 2012 utilizing new Always-On capabilities in AAA (Active x 3) clusters  • Responsible for architecture design, development and maintenance of systems Sr. Software Engineer Wizards of the Coast - Renton, WA March 2007 to July 2013 Wizards of the Coast is a publishing company which produces tabletop games such as Dungeons  & Dragons and Magic: The Gathering. The projects I worked on included implementing digital versions of these games, creating and maintaining brand support websites, and digital tools for both internal and external use.  Magic: The Gathering Online is a multi-tiered distributed application for playing games of Magic: The Gathering with other players throughout the world.  • I supported the live operations and maintenance of the system from a code perspective. This required work on all tiers of the architecture  • The system utilized MS SQL Server 2008, had two middle tier components, one written in C# and running on Windows servers and the other written in C++ and running on Linux servers  • The system is highly transactional and supports up to 10,000 concurrent users Software Architect / Sr. Software Engineer LexisNexis - Bellevue, WA April 2002 to March 2007 LexisNexis is the largest provider of legal documentation and services. Applied Discovery was a system for extracting, converting and reviewing documents in what is known as eDiscovery.  • As a software architect I was part of a research team investigating semantic search technologies and algorithms  • We would research, investigate, test and recommend search solution providers for indexing and searching datasets of 10-100 million pages  • As a software engineer I was responsible for the development of a web interface and middle-tier engine to index both document text and metadata, search across large data sets, and retrieve for review document sets Software Developer NextGen Web - Kirkland, WA August 2000 to April 2002 NextGen Web was a web design/development agency. My role was to develop websites for a variety of clients and I was responsible for full code implementation for each project. Software Developer Keane - Kirkland, WA November 1998 to August 2000 Keane provided contract software development services to a variety of businesses. Keane focused on providing the full software lifecycle solution including project management, software development and quality assurance.  • Developed software solutions for clients based on SOW  • Systems included both client-based and server-based solutions    Earlier experience available upon request Education Bachelor's Skills Java, Javascript