Sr .Net Application Developer Sr .Net Application <span class="hl">Developer</span> Dorchester, MA 14 years of extensive IT work experience in software analysis, design, development, coding and testing.  • Experience in designing and development of applications using Microsoft Technologies like ASP.Net, MVC, .NET Core, C#, Amazon AWS services, Web Services, WCF, WebApi's, Window Services, ADO.Net, Silverlight 4.0, Entity Framework, LINQ, Dapper and SOLR.  • Experience in N-tier application development based on client-server architecture.  • Strong background in software development processes (SDLC).  • Experience in Project management methodologies (AGILE SCRUM, Waterfall).  • Expertise in developing applications with design patterns MVC, MVVM, Factory and Singleton Patterns.  • Used SOLID principles like Single-Responsibility-Principle, Open-Closed-Principle, Interface segregation principle and Dependency Inversion principle.  • Experience in developing front-end User Interface using ASP.NET, JavaScript, JQuery, AngularJs, Angular, Angular Material, KnockoutJs, HTML5, CSS3, HandsOnTable Library and Bootstrap.  • Experience securing web applications using ASP.NET authentication and authorization mechanisms.  • Experience in developing Reusable Components like Class Libraries, Web User Controls so that can be used by other developers in a group.  • Developed Interfaces for data exchange using LINQ, ADO.Net, C#, JSON and XML.  • Experience in handling various backend data sources such as MSSQL Server 2005/2008/2012/2017 and XML Data source.  • Full Stack Web Developer comfortable working with both back-end and front-end technologies.  • Expertise in creating Constraints, Indexes, Views, Stored Procedures, Triggers, and User Defined Functions using T-SQL.  • Good knowledge of SSIS package development/testing.  • Proficient in developing Web Forms, Web Services, Object Oriented Applications using .Net technology and have worked with various Data Controls, Server controls, Validation Controls.  • Excellent Interpersonal and Communication Skills with ability to handle multiple projects to deadlines.  • Involved with development teams in code reviews and coordination with offshore team. Work Experience Sr .Net Application Developer Commonwealth of Massachusetts - Boston, MA April 2018 to Present Description: Transportation Offers: Transportation has Carrier Module, Payment System, Vehicles, Drivers and Transfer Modules. A carrier creates his profile and generates Carrier, Payment is done and issued with a Certificate. A carrier can register Vehicles and Drivers and does payments and transfers if any.  Responsibilities:  • Analyze the requirements and create Requirement Specification Document.  • Design Database, its tables, constraints and relationships by using Normalization.  • Written Stored Procedures, Functions and Views.  • Involved in Interact with the client.  • Involved in developing services using .Net Core Web API's.  • Created Angular Services.  • Created Custom Directives and Filters.  • Designed Pages using Bootstrap.  • Develop User Interface, Business Logic and Data Access Operations.  • Involved in Scrum and Sprint meetings and ensuring that the team properly applies Agile Development Principles.  • Involved in pre-testing the application and bug fixing.  • For team collaboration and for Source Code Control Used TFS.  • Involved in Deployment and Maintenance of the project between various environments such as development, testing and production.  Environment: Visual Studio 2015, .Net Core, MVC 4.0, ASP.Net 4.5, C#, TFS, HTML5, Bootstrap, JavaScript, JQuery, Angular 6.0, Entity Framework, C#, WCF, Web API and LINQ. Sr .Net Application Developer Commonwealth of Massachusetts - Boston, MA October 2017 to March 2018 Description:LabourRelations Offers: Labour Relations have 3 Modules name Civil Cases, Grievances and Investigations. They can open/dispose Civil case and open/dispose Grievances. Different agencies can use these modules. Attached documents and notes while filing Civil cases and Grievances. Investigations followed by Civil Cases.  Responsibilities:  • Analyze the requirements and create Requirement Specification Document.  • Design Database, its tables, constraints and relationships by using Normalization.  • Written Stored Procedures, Functions and Views.  • Involved in Interact with the client.  • Involved in developing services using .Net Core Web API's.  • Develop User Interface, Business Logic and Data Access Operations.  • Involved in Scrum and Sprint.  • Involved in Deployment and Maintenance of the project between various environments such as development, testing and production.  Environment: Visual Studio 2015, .Net Core, MVC 4.0, ASP.Net 4.5, C#, TFS, HTML5, Bootstrap, JavaScript, JQuery, Angular 6.0, Entity Framework, C#, WCF, Web API and LINQ. Implementation Partner IRVINE COMPANY - Irvine, CA March 2017 to September 2017 IRVINE Financials  Role: .Net Lead Developer  Description: CapitalDB Offers: (https://isoft.irvinecompany.com/capitalDb/prd/) - CapitalDB CAM Module, Amortization schedules are used to calculate CAM amortization expense amounts that are charged back to the customer. CAM's will be added to Capital Database that will display amortization data at the property and project level for Office and Retail. CAM projects fall into four categories: Historical, Forecast, Adjustment, and Gaming.  Responsibilities  • Analyze the requirements and create Requirement Specification Document.  • Involved in developing services using Web API's.  • Created Angular Js Services.  • Created Custom Directives and Filters using Angular Js.  • Created Angular Js services using Services Module.  • Used Angular Js Routing Module called 'ui-Router'.  • Designed Pages using Angular Material.  • Develop User Interface, Business Logic and Data Access Operations.  • Develop stored procedures, views and functions for CRUD operations.  • Involved in developing services using WCF.  • Used SSO for authorizing user.  • Used JavaScript, JQuery and Bootstrap for UI.  • Used ASP.Net MVC.  • Used LINQ and JSON files for data exchange.  • Developed reports using SSRS.  • Used Postman for testing services.  • Involved in Scrum and Sprint meetings and ensuring that the team properly applies Agile Development Principles.  • Involved in pre-testing the application and bug fixing.  • For team collaboration and for Source Code Control Used TFS.  • Involved in Deployment and Maintenance of the project between various environments such as development, production, and testing.  Environment: Visual Studio 2015, MVC 4.0, ASP.Net 4.5, C#, TFS, HTML5, Bootstrap, JavaScript, JQuery, Angular JS, Angular Material, HandsOnTable Library, Entity Framework, C#, WCF, Web API and LINQ. Implementation Partner IPREO - Broadway, NY, US May 2015 to February 2017 IPREO Financials  Role: Computer System Analyst / Developer  Description: BCD Offers: (https://ipad.bd.ipreo.com/Citrix/MainWeb/) - BCD has two modules, First Module "Directors Compensation" includes Compensation Details page to load all the contacts in the selected company. Other module called "Entity Matching" includes finding matching Firms and Contacts data from Note, Excel files and generate matching data in an excel file using SOLR. Estimation time can be decreased by involving more number EC2 instance.  Responsibilities  • Analyze the requirements and create Requirement Specification Document.  • Used Amazon cloud computing platform to deploy and manage this application.  • Experience with SOLR, Amazon Virtual Machines, Amazon S3 and EC2 Servers.  • Create Prototypes for the UI Design.  • Involved in developing services using WCF.  • Created PowerShell Scripts for dynamic deployment in EC2 Server.  • Used JavaScript, JQuery and Bootstrap for UI.  • Used ASP.Net MVC and Angular Js.  • Created Angular Js services using Services Module.  • Used Angular Js Routing Module called 'ngRoute'.  • Develop User Interface, Business Logic and Data Access Operations.  • Develop stored procedures, triggers and functions for CRUD operations.  • Handle release activities and weekly status call with client.  • Developed reports using SSRS.  • Involved in Scrum and Sprint meetings and ensuring that the team properly applies Agile Development Principles.  • Involved in pre-testing the application and bug fixing.  • Used Postman for testing services.  • For team collaboration and for Source Code Control Used GitHub.  • Involved in the code review and assignment of tasks with team members.  • Perform Unit Testing and perform code review for the team.  • Involved in Deployment and Maintenance of the project between various environments such as development, production, and testing.  Environment: Visual Studio 2015, Amazon VM, Amazon AWS S3, EC2, MVC 4.0, ASP.Net 4.5, C#, SSIS Packages for import and exporting data, MS SQL Server 2012, GitHub, HTML5, Bootstrap, JavaScript, JQuery, Angular JS, Entity Framework, C#, WCF, LINQ, Windows Service, HandsOnTable Library, and SOLR. Implementation Partner Prime Ki Software Solutions Pvt Ltd - Hyderabad, Telangana September 2013 to May 2015 Nationwide Insurance Company  Role: Computer System Analyst / Developer  Description: Access Express CL2.0 - They are 4 modules Business owners, Commercial Auto, Workers' Compensation & Rapid Rate Umbrella. In Business Owner's Module, the user can add different locations and buildings pertaining to each location. In Worker's Compensation, user enters number of employees for each location and for each location can add class by using a fuzzy search for the class.  Responsibilities  • Responsible for understanding the user requirements and converting them into the coding by implementing the business rules using C#.  • UI design based on HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, Silverlight 4.0.  • Involved in pre-testing the application and bug fixing.  • Involved in writing NUnit/MOQ tests for the developed code.  • For team collaboration and for Source Code Control Used Team Foundation Server.  • Used LINQ and Json Files for data exchange.  • Involved in the code review and assignment of tasks with team members.  • Used Postman for testing services.  • Involved in providing Unit Test for each of the task and perform code review for the team.  • Involved in Deployment and Maintenance of the project between various environments such as development, production, and testing.  Environment: Visual Studio 2015, C#, MS SQL Server 2008, Microsoft Team Foundation Server, Silverlight 4.0, ASP.NET Web API, HTML5, CSS3, WCF, LINQ, JavaScript, JQuery and Entity Framework. Team Lead Agency Access Express, NY January 2012 to August 2013 Description: Agency Fact Sheet module is used by Corporate Marketing to capture financial, other carrier and Harleysville performance data for each agency appointed with Harleysville. Agency Business Plan module captures the business plan information for total CL, PL and total Agency Goals data. Commercial EXCL HS and IM, Commercial Specialty Lines HS and IM.  Responsibilities  • Designing the project based on the .Net Framework architecture.  • UI design based on HTML5, Bootstrap, ASP.Net 4.0, MVC 4.0, JavaScript, JQuery.  • Involved in debugging and troubleshooting User interface screens.  • Used LINQ for data exchange.  • Responsible for writing SQL Queries and Stored Procedures.  • Responsible for understanding the user requirements and converting them into the coding by implementing the business rules using C#.  • Developed reports using SSRS. Involved in developing services using REST.  • For team collaboration and for Source Code Control Used Team Foundation Server.  • Involved in the code review and assignment of tasks with team members.  • Involved in providing Unit Test for each of the task and perform code review for the team.  • Involved in pre-testing the application and bug fixing.  • Involved in Deployment and Maintenance of the project between various environments such as development, production, and testing.  Environment: Visual Studio 2015, C#, MS SQL Server, IIS 7.0, Microsoft Team Foundation Server, ASP.NET MVC4, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, Stored Procedures, Angular JS, JQuery, C#, WCF, LINQ, Entity Framework. Sr. Software Developer Al Dawliya Insurance - Dubai, AE September 2010 to December 2011 Description: Analyst Insurance - Motor Insurance helps in preparing fast customer quotations for different motor vehicle policies. They are different types of policies and the policy can be Renewed, Endorsed, Request for Cancellation and Cancelled and the system has workflows and the system automatically calculate Premium based on parameters and uses Pro-rata or Short period method upon cancellation of policy.  Responsibilities  • Involved in Software Development Life Cycle of the project including Analysis, Design, Development, and Deployment of the application  • UI design based on HTML5, Bootstrap, ASP.NET 4.0, MVC 4.0, JavaScript, JQuery.  • Involved in Deployment and Maintenance of the project between various environments such as development, production, and testing.  • Responsible for writing SQL Queries and Stored Procedures.  • Involved in the code review and assignment of tasks with team members.  • Responsible for properly handling the errors and log them.  • Using Web service provided by RTA for the registration of Vehicle in RTA System and also developed Web service.  • Developing Reports and Graphs Using SSRS.  Environment: Visual Studio 2015, C#, MS SQL Server, IIS 7.0, Microsoft Team Foundation Server, ASP.NET MVC4, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, Stored Procedures, Angular JS, JQuery, C#, WCF, LINQ, Entity Framework. Sr. Software Developer Nobles Investments - Dubai, AE September 2009 to August 2010 Description: CRM - Marketing Module involves in Lead generation sources, designing best effective marketing campaigns based on MIS information from the system, Lead analysis, Campaign analysis etc. Pre-sales module includes lead entry, lead distribution, lead follow-up, creating contacts and accounts.  Responsibilities  • Involved in Software Development Life Cycle of the project including Analysis, Design, Development, and Deployment of the application  • Involved in Deployment and Maintenance of the project between various environments such as development, production, and testing.  • Handled production issues involving real-time application problems.  • Worked with Release Teams to merge code among Development, Staging and Production branches  • Designing the project based on the .Net Framework architecture.  • UI design based on HTML5, CSS3, ASP.Net 4.0, MVC 4.0, JavaScript, JQuery.  • Used LINQ and JSON files for data exchange.  • Responsible for writing SQL Queries and Stored Procedures.  • Developed some reusable libraries for Database Interaction and some reusable services for multiple modules in Application by developing some Class Libraries.  • Responsible for understanding the user requirements and converting them into the coding by implementing the business rules using C#.  • Involved in the code review and assignment of tasks with team members.  • Involved in providing Unit Test for each of the task and perform code review for the team.  • Involved in pre-testing the application and bug fixing.  Environment: Visual Studio 2010, C#, MS SQL Server, IIS 7.0, TFS, ASP.NET 4.0, MVC4, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, LINQ, Entity Framework, Stored Procedures, XML. Sr. Software Developer Vali Contracting - Dubai, AE September 2008 to August 2009 Description: Real Estate Contracting - The Contracting Module, it automates and integrates all divisions of contracting business. It has sub modules such as Estimation/BOQ/Budget Entry. Material Procurement and inventory module has Material Request, Enquiry to supplier, LPO, GRN, balance LPO, Invoice from supplier.  Responsibilities  • Involved in Software Development Life Cycle of the project including Analysis, Design, Development, and Deployment of the application.  • Involved in Testing, Deployment, and Maintenance of the project.  • Developing reports such as Asset Usage Report, Cost Budget, Activity Estimation, Sub Contractor Reports, LPO, GRN, Statement of Account, Outstanding Report, Financial Statement, Bank Reconciliation Statement, Employee, Payroll etc., using SSRS.  • Designing the project based on the .Net Framework architecture.  • UI design based on HTML, CSS, ASP.Net 3.5, JavaScript, JQuery.  • Responsible for writing SQL Queries and Stored Procedures.  • Developed some reusable libraries for Database Interaction and some reusable services for multiple modules in Application by developing some Class Libraries.  • Responsible for properly handling the errors and log them.  • Involved in the code review and assignment of tasks with team members.  • Worked with Release Teams to merge code among Development, Staging and Production branches.  Environment: Visual Studio 2010, C#, MS SQL Server, IIS 7.0, TFS, ASP.NET 3.5, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Stored Procedures, XML. Sr. Software Developer Al Manal Centre - Dubai, AE July 2007 to August 2008 Description: Real Estate Management System - Buying helps in tracking the purchased projects. Property management is a type of real estate business, in which company takes complete responsibility of selling developer's properties in a complete project. In Property selling brokerage the company will act as broker between developer/seller and a buyer.  Responsibilities  • Involved in Software Development Life Cycle of the SOAP based web service application including Analysis, Development, and Deployment of the application  • Involved in Testing, Deployment, and Maintenance of the project.  • Responsible for writing SQL Queries and Stored Procedures.  • Used Team Foundation Server for Source Code Control, project related document sharing and team collaboration.  • Developing reports such as Unit History Report, Statement of Account, Outstanding Report, Financial Statement, Customer Installments, Transaction listing, Customer Service, Property Status, Bank Reconciliation Statement, Sales Report, PDC Management and Return Cheque Lists using SSRS.  • Responsible for understanding the user requirements and converting them into the coding by implementing the business rules using C#.  • Responsible for properly handling the errors and log them.  Environment: Visual Studio 2010, C#, MS SQL Server 2005, ASP.NET 2.0, Web services. Software Developer Starr Healthcare Enterprises Inc September 2005 to June 2007 Description: Project Control System - PCS is a repository for all documentation associated with a project. This helps management to estimate the cost spent for completion of the project and maintain all the details regarding completed and status of the projects. It's a complete project management, costing, revenue recognition and control system.  Responsibilities  • Developed the GUI using C#, ASP, ADO.net, XML, JavaScript, Ajax, JQuery, CSS, and HTML.  • Responsible for understanding the user requirements and converting them into the coding by implementing the business rules using C#.  • Involved in Testing, Deployment, and Maintenance of the project.  • UI design based on HTML, CSS, ASP.Net 2.0, JavaScript, JQuery.  • Involved in debugging and troubleshooting User interface screens.  • Implemented Authorize.Net and PayPal payment gateways.  • Responsible for writing SQL Queries and Stored Procedures.  • Used visual source safe for source code maintenance.  • Responsible for properly handling the errors and log them.  • Worked with Release Teams to merge code among Development, Staging and Production branches  Environment: Visual Studio 2008, C#, MS SQL Server 2005, Ajax, VSS, ASP.NET 3.5, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, PayPal, Authorize.Net, Stored Procedures, XML. Skills Ajax, Asp, Iis, Iis 7, Asp.net Additional Information Technical Expertise:    Web Technology  ASP.NET Framework 3.0/3.5/4.0/4.5, MVC 3/4/5, AJAX, AJAX toolkit, LINQ, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, AngularJs, Angular, KnockoutJs, Web Services, WCF    Microsoft AWS Microsoft AWS Virtual Machines, S3 Server and EC2.  Languages C#, ASP.NET, ADO.NET, T-SQL, PL/SQL.  Development Tools Visual Studio 2008/2010/2012/2013/2015, Eclipse.  Databases SQL Server 2005/2008/2012.  Version Control Tortoise SVN, Visual Source Safe, TFS (Team Foundation Server), GitHub.  Web/App Servers IIS 7.0/6.0.  Operating System Windows 10/XP/Vista/7, Linux.  Domain Insurance, Finance and Real Estate.  Other Tools Solr, Amazon S3, EC2 and Cloud Search services.