Solution Architect Solution Architect Solution Architect - Centerfield Media Rolling Hills Estates, CA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Solution Architect Centerfield Media - Playa Vista, CA July 2016 to Present Technical leader for Centerfield's proprietary software to support search engine marketing and sales services.  Team Accomplishments:  ? Rearchitected monolithic application to microservices  ? Migrated several legacy infrastructures to AWS  ? Implemented continuous integration and automated testing  ? Architected and built Twilio-backed microservice-based call center handling 100k calls daily  ? Implemented database source control and automated database deployments  ? Rearchitected and developed streaming infrastructure    Responsibilities:  ? Software and system architecture  ? Managing and hiring developers  ? Code reviews, design reviews, mentoring, and training  ? Establishing development processes  ? Unit test adoption and DevOps management  ? Hands on development and system support Lead Developer Athene Asset Management - El Segundo, CA March 2015 to June 2016 Lead developer working directly with investment team to deliver software to manage data and business workflows.  ? Lead offshore and onshore development teams.  ? Significantly improved software performance and removed technical debt through refactoring.  ? Streamlined deployment and facilitated adoption of unit testing through developer training and awareness.  ? Improved developer productivity by implementing continuous integration and automated unit testing. Staff Software Engineer Polycom - El Segundo, CA February 2012 to November 2014 Architected, developed, and supported Polycom RealPresence Media Manager (PRMM) product, enterprise software that captures, manages, and delivers video content from any source to any device.  ? Implemented continuous integration. Automated the following: builds, deployments, unit test and integration test execution, REST API testing, and code analysis. Became "testing evangelist", promoting and facilitating wider adoption of unit testing among the team. Received Honorable Mention Award for the above work.  ? Created REST API and integrated Polycom products to streamline setup time and reduce bugs.  ? Refactored media import code to improve performance by 95% in response to customer complaint. Senior Software Engineer Cornerstone OnDemand - Santa Monica, CA August 2011 to January 2012 Served on architecture team for Cornerstone's talent management SAAS product where I did research and development into OAuth, OData, and XML gateway products. Senior Software Engineer Epic Media Group - El Segundo, CA March 2009 to July 2011 Served as lead developer for domain parking product that serviced over 2 million domains and 15 million visits daily.    Lead architect working with overseas and in-house developers on the following projects:  ? Optimization service that utilized queuing to integrate enterprise services and guarantee the flow of data.  ? Generic Caching Framework capable of caching results of any method call, repopulating cache asynchronously, and optionally serializing results to disk in case data store was unavailable during application restarts. Senior Software Architect WebYES - El Segundo, CA July 2006 to March 2009 Helped get this startup up and running and profitable as one of the early employees. Responsible for everything from driving business specs to hardware and software design to deployment and support.    Served as lead architect on the following:  ? Autoresponder Email System capable of dynamically selecting and sending 300,000 messages per hour.  ? Bulk Mailing System which sent over 3 million targeted emails nightly.  ? Suppression Management System capable of importing 100G files containing millions of email addresses. Software Engineer Vendare Media - El Segundo, CA December 2001 to June 2006 Architected and developed the following:  ? Multithreaded click tracking system capable of tracking 20 million clicks independent of database availability.  ? Various other web, email, and ecommerce applications. Education Master of Science in Mechanical Engineering in Mechanical Engineering Massachusetts Institute of Technology January 1991 to June 1992 Bachelor of Science in Mechanical Engineering in Mechanical Engineering Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute August 1988 to December 1990 State University of New York at Geneseo - New York, NY August 1986 to June 1988 Skills Sql Server, Javascript, SQL, XML, HTML, AWS (2 years), Azure (2 years), C# (10+ years), Asp.Net (10+ years), Mongo, Software Development, MySQL (3 years), Engineering Management (3 years), Entity Framework, Enterprise Software Certifications/Licenses AWS Certified Solution Architect Associate July 2018 to July 2020 Additional Information ? Over 18 years of professional experience in the entire software development life cycle.  ? Experience as architect and manager in agile environments and leading onshore and offshore teams.  ? Extensive experience with AWS and Azure cloud services.  ? Excellent understanding of online marketing space, financial space, SaaS, call centers, and enterprise software.    Technologies  Proficient with the following unless noted.  Microsoft: ASP.NET, C#, WCF, MSMQ, TFS, TPL, Entity Framework, IIS, SignalR, MSBuild, WPF, SSRS, SharePoint  Databases: MSSQL, Mongo, DocumentDB, MySQL, Redis, Druid, Oracle(prior experience), RDS  Patterns and Practices: TDD, DI, REST, MVC, Design Patterns, MVVM, Agile Development  Software and Tools: AWS (Certified Solution Architect), SQS, SNS, Lambda, Azure, Xunit, Nunit, Moq, MSTest, Storm, Talend, RabbitMQ, SimpleInjector, AutoFac, Fiddler, Jira, Confluence, WordPress, Selenium, PHP, Jenkins  Front End: JavaScript, AngularJS, ReactJS (working knowledge), jQuery, Bootstrap, CSS