Senior Software Developer Senior <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Software Developer - Wells Fargo Charlotte, NC Work Experience Senior Software Developer Wells Fargo - Charlotte, NC March 2019 to Present Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring Boot, Micro Services, Pivotal Cloud Foundry, Kafka, DAO, RESTFull web services, Camel, Gradle, JMS, iBatis, Hibernate, Oracle, Sybase, Mono DB, H2, JUnit, Selenium, Multi-Threading, IBM MQ, Eclipse, Tomcat, Angular JS, WebSphere Application Server, Log4j, PL/SQL    Project: Global Application Business Services  GBAS is global services platform for WellsFargo Bank. All transactions data (SWIFT, XML, etc) will be checked and validated against regulations. This application interacts with several internal systems via MQ, SOAP web service calls and Restful service calls to post or get data.  ? Requirement discussions with business users  ? Analyzing requirements and publishing implementation plans  ? Providing optimized technical, architectural solutions  ? Developing Spring Boot Applications which can be deployed to cloud servers.  ? Implementing services to interact with SOAP based web service calls  ? Implementing micro services to consume and produce RESTFul web services  ? Developing JMS service components to listen and publish MQ messages  ? Implementing micro services to parse SWIFT messages as per industry standards  ? Implementing services to parse XML messages and other text formats.  ? Implementing multi-threaded processes to improve throughput and latency  ? Implementing event based async programming components using Spring react.  ? Implementing Spring DAO services to persist data.  ? Implemented services to store data into Cache, utilizing and reusing existing objects  ? Deploying, configuring and managing applications on Pivotal Cloud Foundry  ? Implementing and configuring scripts for CI/CD (Continuous Integration/ Continuous Development) on Jenkins and U Deploy.  ? Utilizing GIT repositories and Gradle build tools  ? Developed Spring batch configurations, administering batch execution  ? Perform memory analysis, analyze heap dumps and provide fixes  ? Implemented optimized sql queries, procedures which joins multiple tables  ? Implemented Junit testcases for all scenarios, created h2 data sources for testing  ? Helped Production support team in identifying the root cause and providing resolution for critical issues  ? Optimized business logic into Helper and Utility classes.  ? Managing build and release activities for QC and Test environments. Programmer Analyst Wells Fargo - Fort Mill, SC August 2015 to March 2019 Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring DAO, Spring Batches, Web Services, JMS, iBatis, Hibernate, Guice injection framework, Oracle, Sybase, Mono DB, H2, JUnit, Selenium, ASIS Loader, Domain Driven Development, zing jdk, Multi-Threading, IBM MQ, Eclipse, Tomcat, WebSphere Application Server, Log4j, PL/SQL    Project: Citi Risk Credit Reporting  CRCR is risk reporting platform for Citi, processes transactions data, portfolio information, risk metrics and publishes exceptions usage limit breaches and tenor limit breaches at customer and facility levels.  ? Requirement discussions with business users  ? Analyzing requirements and publishing implementation plans  ? Providing optimized technical, architectural solutions  ? Developed Java service components for parsing huge feeds.  ? Implemented multi-threaded processes to improve throughput and latency  ? Implementing Spring DAO services to persist data.  ? Integrating service components using GUICE injection.  ? Implemented services to store data into Cache, utilizing and reusing existing objects  ? Developed java services to generate different types of reports( pdf, excel)  ? Developed Spring batch configurations, administering batch execution  ? Perform memory analysis, analyze heap dumps and provide fixes  ? Implemented optimized sql queries which joins multiple tables  ? Implemented asis loader scripts to load bulk data into sybase.  ? Implemented Junit testcases for all scenarios, created h2 data sources for testing  ? Helped Production support team in identifying the root cause and providing resolution for critical issues  ? Optimized business logic into Helper and Utility classes.  ? Managing build and release activities for QC and Test environments.  ? Leading team by explaining requirements, assigning tasks and addressing any key challenges  ? Managing Spring JIRA board and life cycle of JIRAs. Application Developer JP Morgan Chase & Co July 2014 to August 2015 Environment: Java & J2EE, Spring, Struts, Mule ESB, IBM MQ, gwt, Websphere, Tomcat, Oracle, Maven, Jenkins  Project: Asset Management Core Operations    Core Ops handles most of the BackOffice activities under asset management business.  Cash - handles cash transactions between internal and external accounts through workflow approval system.  LoanOps - Processes transactions related to Loan Operations, interacts with external agencies, generates reports.  COACS - Corporate Actions management system, processes and formats corporate action events. Provides facility for Portfolio managers to instruct against events and accounts.    ? Discuss with business users and analysts to understand requirements and provide technical solutions and timelines.  ? Developing utility interfaces to interact with external systems through MQ and SFTP.  ? Implementing DAO components for database interactions and transaction handling  ? Providing services in Java and integrating with UI ( gwt and JSP)  ? Implementing RESTful services which will be consumed by Angular JS components  ? Writing Junit test cases to cover all the code components.  ? Worked with stored procs and PL SQL performance tuning.  ? Implemented stored procedures, functions and handled backend db activities.  ? Implemented Mule components for file reading/writing and message sending/ receiving.  ? Handling Maven builds and Jenkins automated jobs  ? Handling production release activities  ? Helped Production support team in identifying the root cause and providing resolution for critical issues Sr. J2EE Consultant Wells Fargo - Jersey City, NJ October 2008 to July 2014 Environment: Java & J2EE, Struts, Ejb(Session Beans, MDBs), Web Services, JMS, Spring, iBatis, Hibernate, Oracle, TIBCO EMS, IBM MQ, Eclipse, WebSphere Integration Designer, IBM Enterprise Service Bus, BPEL Flows, SCA modules, Mediation modules, Business Rules, Adobe Flash Builder, Multi-Threading, Socket Programming, Autosys, Connect Direct NDM, Tomcat, WebSphere Application Server, Log4j, PL/SQL    Project 1: Operationalizations  MOBO is reporting platform which syncs huge volumes of data from Geneva Accounting systems and facilitates users to generate customized reports and sends feeds for other systems.  ? Requirement discussions with business  ? Major responsibilities are to understand the existing application, port it into the new templates without breaking the existing functionality.  ? Developed jms listener services using spring jms framework.  ? Integrating .net UI with Java services through TIBCO queues  ? Implemented socket connections to integrate accounting system.  ? Developed java services to load large data sets into Oracle database  ? Worked with stored procs and PL SQL performance tuning.  ? Developed java services to generate different types of reports( pdf, excel)  ? Created Crystal Reports templates and generated reports form java services.  ? Developed hibernate mapping files, iBatis configuration files.  ? Implemented stored procedures, functions and handled backend db activities.  ? Created autosys jobs and shell scripts on UNIX  ? Helped Production support team in identifying the root cause and providing resolution for critical issues  ? Optimized business logic into Helper and Utility classes.  ? Managing build and release activities for QC and Test environments.    Project-2: Client Account Profile  Client Account Profile (CAP) is a Central client account on boarding process for the services provided by Citi. It involves Web based UI to review and maintain the account information. Account information is distributed to downstream systems to reporting, trade processing, and performance benchmark analysis.  Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Created proof-of-concept applications for demonstration and evaluation purposes.  ? Analyzed requirements and used systematic approaches to implement and document the tasks.  ? Drafted technical documents, including whitepapers.  ? Leading offshore team of 5.  ? Created java services using spring-iBatis framework to interact with Oracle database.  ? Developed Sql mapping's in IBATIS  ? Integrating java services with Flex UI using BlazeDs.  ? Developed SCA modules, BPEL workflows and Business rules which can be deployed to WPS.  ? Developed mediation modules targeted to run on ESB.  ? Identified and developed reusable and common util components.  ? Created SOAP Webservice clients to interact with wps bpel components.  ? Developed bpel workflow components, services on WID.  ? Created global exception handler and custom exceptions  ? Developed logging framework using Log4j  ? Configured data sources, mail sessions, JMS providers, Queues, Queue Connection Factories, Listener ports on WebSphere Application sever Admin Console.  ? Handled taking build files, deployments and configurations needed for every environment.  ? Co-ordinated with testing team and provided bug fixes.    Project-3: SOWS DTCC 1-1  A workflow driven instruction recording systems which gets real time instructed data against Corporate Action events from mainframe system and channels the instruction data to DTCC - Depository Trust & Clearing Corporation.  Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Requirements discussion with business users  ? Drafted technical design and architecture documents.  ? Implemented java services using struts mvc framework.  ? Integrated Flex UI components with java services through https service calls.  ? Created Stateless session bens EJB and added transaction qualifiers.  ? Created JMS listeners using MDB beans, and developed message sending components  ? Developed SCA modules, BPEL workflows and Business rules which can be deployed to WPS.  ? Developed mediation modules targeted to run on ESB.  ? Handled WAS configurations and admin activities.  ? Created stored procedures, functions, tables, sequences, etc.  ? Created autosys job scheduling, NDM file transfer scripts  ? Deployed and tested the entire application using WebSphere Application Server.  ? Participating in weekly meetings, UAT bridge calls and other status meetings.  ? Validated Coding Standards, Conducted peer reviews and status meetings with team members.  ? Mentored junior engineers    Project-4: SOWS Event Creation  Corporate Action event life cycle management system which receives event data from several systems, facilitates users to create events and send event information to clients.  ? Requirements analysis and publish design documents  ? Developed struts action classes and controller servlets  ? Developed Java Dao services to interact with database using JDBC  ? Integrated Flex UI components with java services.  ? Created and exported SOAP/HTTP web services  ? Created web service clients  ? Developed global exception handling mechanism and custom exceptions  ? Developed SCA modules, BPEL workflows and Business rules which can be deployed to WPS.  ? Developed mediation modules targeted to run on ESB.  ? Created stored procedures, functions, tables, sequences on Oracle database  ? Created jms listeners for IBM MQ to interact with mainframe.  ? Developed unit test cases  ? Deployed and tested the entire application using WebSphere Application Server.  ? Release Owner for a full product development release cycle. Responsible for planning, documentation, source control and release management for an entire release of the company's primary product line.    Project 5: Securities Operations Workflow System  SOWS is an integrated platform for Corporate Actions business which automates event creation, response control and payment processing processes and integrates several external systems.  ? Requirements analysis and publish design documents  ? Mapping the presentation layer to the PD objects and interacting with the database through the Service layer.  ? Developed struts action classes and controller servlets  ? Developed Java services to interact with database using JDBC  ? Created and exported SOAP/HTTP web services  ? Created web service clients  ? Created NDM File transfer scripts on UNIX  ? Created autosys jobs, shell scripts.  ? Created stored procedures, functions, tables, sequences on Oracle database  ? Created jms listeners for IBM MQ to interact with mainframe.  ? Developed unit test cases  ? Deployed and tested the entire application using WebSphere Application Server.  ? Involved in Maintenance and Production Support activities like defect fixing, handling major & minor enhancements, monitoring the Application. Education Bachelor's in Computer Sceince & Engineering August 2004 to Present Skills ECLIPSE, EJB, J2EE, JAVA, HIBERNATE, SPRING, JMS, JNDI, jQuery, JSP, SERVLETS, STRUTS, DATABASE, DB2, JDBC, ORACLE, PL/SQL, SQL, SYBASE, AJAX, Linux, Javascript Certifications/Licenses Sun Certified Java Programmer Present Additional Information ? Having 10+ years of extensive experience in analyzing, designing, developing, testing, deploying and maintaining Client /Server and Distributed Applications using Java/J2EE technologies like Java, J2EE, concurrent programming, Micro Services , Spring Boot, Spring Restful, SOAP/HTTP Web Services, Spring React, Spring - Core, MVC, DAO, ORM, JMS, Batch, JPA, Hibernate, Ejb, JMS, Kafka, Camel, Gradle, , Pivotal Cloud Foundry, PL/SQL, JSON, Struts , Service Oriented Architecture, IBM Business Process Management, WebSphere Process Server, Enterprise Service Bus, Mediation Modules, Business Rules, BPEL Modules, Mule ESB, , Connect Direct NDM, Autosys, Unix Script & Presentation technologies like JSP, Flex, Java Script, Angular JS, Ext JS, XML.  ? Expertise in providing best design and architecture solutions for projects involving lot of systems integration and distributed applications.  ? Experienced in delivering quality codes by following java design patterns and best coding practices with primary focus on code reusability, scalability and maintainability  ? Expertise in working under Agile development model.  ? Expertise in developing Spring Boot applications with Micro Services  ? Experienced in implementing and consuming Restful resources using Spring  ? Experienced in configuring, developing and integrating using Camel  ? Expertise in implementing multi-threaded process to support concurrent execution  ? Expertise in using Java 8 stream api and functional oriented programming style  ? Experienced in implementing JPA components, and handling CRUD operations.  ? Experienced in event based reactive programming using spring react.  ? Experienced in implementing services, beans using Spring core, Spring DAO, Spring Web, Spring Expression Language, Spring ORM frameworks.  ? Experienced in implementing and executing Spring batches.  ? Expertise in writing optimized PL/ SQL queries, stored procedures and functions on multiple Oracle / Sybase database schemas.  ? Experienced in implementing Mule ESB modules on Mule 2.x and Mule 3.x and later  ? Expertise in Spring JMS listener components creation, and handling transactions.  ? Expertise in creating Ejb, Stateless session beans and message driven beans (MDBs) with transaction qualifiers.  ? Experienced in creating Data Source resource providers for Oracle and SQL server databases, and creating shared libraries, configuring mail sessions, creating environment variables on WebSphere Application Server.  ? Experienced with Maven, Gradle build tools and Jenkins, Anthill, TeamCity  ? Expertise in configuring JMS providers for TIBCO EMS and IBM MQ on WebSphere.  ? Expertise in creating and configuring WebSphere scheduler components.  ? Expertise in creating build files using ant build, and deploying WAR and EAR files on WebSphere and Tomcat servers, code source versioning and migration.  ? Expertise in developing Mediation modules which can run on WebSphere ESB  ? Expertise in creating Business rules on WID  ? Expertise in creation SCA modules, BPEL workflows and integrating with other systems.  ? Expertise in creating Connect Direct NDM file transfer scripts on UNIX and Windows.  ? Expertise in creating UNIX shell scripts and autosys scheduler jobs.  ? Analyzing memory leaks, heap dumps and fix services to use less memory  ? Experienced in using maven and Gradle build frameworks  ? Good exposure to Analysis, Design, Implementation, Testing and Maintenance of applications and involved at all stages of software development life cycle, well exposed to various software development methodologies like SDLC, Agile. Possess a strong domain experience in Banking and Insurance.  ? Analytical thinker that continuously resolves ongoing issues or defects, often called upon to consult on problems that have eluded resolution by others.  ? Outstanding motivator and builder of teams. Works well in both team environments and individual assignments.  ? Responsible, loyal, reliable, and independent worker with high level of enthusiasm and creativity.    Skills Summary  Languages  Frameworks    APIs/ Scripting    App Servers    Database  Middleware  Concepts  Dev Tools    DB Tools    Repository Tools  Operating Systems    Java, J2EE, Groovy, Yaml, HTML, BPEL, PL/SQL, C, C++  Micro Services , Spring Boot, Spring Restful, SOAP/HTTP Web Services, Pivotal Cloud Foundry, Spring React, Spring - Core, MVC, DAO, ORM, JMS, Batch, JPA, Hibernate, Ejb, JMS, Camel, Gradle, , Pivotal Cloud Foundry , Struts , Hibernate, IBATIS, J2EE, EJB, JMS, SCA Modules, Mediation modules, Business Rules, Design Patterns, Concurrent Programming, Log4j, Camel  Java, JDBC, Collections, Streams, Multi-threading, JMS, Java Mail, JSON, Webservices, gwt, Angular JS, Ext JS, WSDL, JSP, Servlets, JavaScript, JQuery, Ajax, JNDI, Socket Programming, Java Beans, HTML, XHTML, DHTML, XML, XSD, SAX, DOM, CSS, Flex, MXML, BlazeDs, Autosys, NDM File Transfer.    WebSphere Application Server, WebSphere Process Server, Mule ESB, Tomcat, Jetty  Oracle, SQL, PL/SQL, DB2, Sybase, H2, Mongo, and MS-Access  MQ Series, NDM File Transfer  UML and Design Patterns  Eclipse, MyEclipse, IntelliJ, Mule Anypoint Studio, WebSphere Integration Developer/ Designer, WebSphere Business Modeler, NetBeans,  TOAD, SQL Developer, DB Visualizer, Squirrel, ASIS Loader    GIT , SVN, CVS    Windows, UNIX/Linux