Senior Software Developer Senior <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Software Developer - Ribbon Communications San Jose, CA • Full stack, extensive backend i.e. server-side Java application developer experience with limited one year Angular / TypeScript (JavaScript) UI, but extensive Java Swing UI, experience building highly available and scalable management, operational support and monitoring applications. Also, previous experience building such EMS applications with PHP, C and C++. Also have experience with SSO and SAML.  • 15+ years application software development experience building EMS, NMS, Operations and Business Support Systems (OSS / BSS) and OAM (Operations Administration and Maintenance) systems on Linux / Unix platforms.  • NMS is a pure Java MVC application to manage any kind of devices on network, it is not a networking product. My experience is Java application with database and UI, not networking as such.  • Patent holder of SNMP NBI (US Patent 7149740).  • Always hands on. Also worked as technical lead and coordinated work between geographically dispersed development teams. Extensive debugging experience with Java Eclipse remote debugging, analyzing log files from customers and stack traces to do root cause analysis.  • Created product design/architecture documents, functional specifications and interface GUI designs.  • Product installations and technical product presentations to customers (AT&T, Qwest, BT, Telmex, etc.)  • Effective communications skills with domestic/international travel experience supporting Sales and Marketing in customer presentations.  • Technical Speaker at various North America / Worldwide standards organizations.  • MS in Computer Science and also completed MBA (part time at Santa Clara University).    Technical Skills:    • Java backend, Spring, Hazelcast / Ignite (for Cache and Queues), Angular / TypeScript (JavaScript) UI, REST, Web Sockets / Atmosphere, MySQL, Eclipse, Hibernate, Windows, IntelliJ IDEA, Git, Bitbucket, Jira, Confluence, Scrum (Stories, Epics, Tasks), REST, Jersey, JSON, HTTP, Swagger, Jetty, Spark Java, TestNG, Gradle, SSO, SAML, H2 database (for test cases), Junit  • Java Swing UI, Ant, SOAP, PHP, C/C++, SNMP, Linux, IpTables, LAMP, UNIX, TailF, ConfD, NetConf/Yang, Ethernet, TCP/IP, UDP, Sockets, Oracle (Database, PL/SQL and Forms).  • Device protocols like Netconf, SNMP, TR-69, TL1 and CLI.  • AAA, Security protocols like SAML, SSL, TLS, LDAP, AAA, Radius and TACACS.  • Embedded Control Plane firmware development with VxWorks Workbench and embeddedMIND.  • EMS/NMS Frameworks like Zoho/AdventNet, WebNMS and WebSilicon.  • HP OpenView, Bash, Shell Scripting, Perforce, Bugzilla, RPC, CMIP/Q3, CORBA. Virtual Machines (VMWare, VirtualBox, CentOS).  • Limited exposure to MEAN stack with JavaScript, Node.js, Angular.js and MongoDB. Familiar with Chrome debugging tools for JavaScript debugging. Work Experience Senior Software Developer Ribbon Communications - San Jose, CA November 2017 to Present • Development and design of the various EdgeView EMS features to manage thousands of EdgeMarc SBC hardware installed in customer's network. Mainly responsible for backend Java, but also did UI work with Angular/TypeScript. EdgeView is based on Serviced Oriented Architecture (SOA) and Microservices with various system components running in separate Docker containers exposing their functionality with a REST API interface. EdgeView is also based on a Event Driven Architecture (EDA) where EdgeMarc events trigger various actions with in EdgeView modules that are containerized in various Docker containers.  • Environment: Java backend (main), Docker, Angular, TypeScript/JavaScript, Spring, Hazelcast (for Cache and Queues), REST, MySQL Server, Eclipse, MacBook, Git, Bitbucket, Jira, Confluence, Scrum (Stories, Epics, Tasks), REST, Jersey, Swagger, Jetty, H2 database (for test cases), Junit, Python scripting Senior Software Developer Automation Anywhere - San Jose, CA September 2016 to November 2017 • Development and design of the WLM (Work Load Management) Feature in their RPA (Robotic Process Automation) product. From a central control room (CR) server, work items are fed (stream over web sockets) to many software robots running in real or virtual machines. These software robots, also called 'digital workforce' mimic human actions and easily fit in various customer business processes.  • Environment: Java backend (main), Spring, Ignite (for Cache and Queues), REST, Web Sockets, SQL Server, Hibernate, Windows, IntelliJ IDEA, Git, Bitbucket, Jira, Confluence, Scrum (Stories, Epics, Tasks), REST, Jersey, Swagger, Jetty, Spark Java, Junit, Python scripting Software Development, Design and Architect SpiderCloud Wireless - San Jose, CA February 2013 to August 2016 • Full stack Java development and architect for SpiderCloud's EMS / NMS / OSS / OAM system, SpiderNet to manage service provider's wireless network. SpiderNet manages (FCAPS) that consists of Service Nodes connected to Service Provider's (Verizon, AT&T, etc.) Core and Radio Nodes connected to end users cell phones. Service Nodes support features like SONs.  • High availability redundancy feature: On a failover, we used virtual IPs to switch over the virtual IP to the other standby (now active) system, so from a northbound user interface, to the end user/customer logging into the UI, there was no change. Even on southbound connections to the hundreds of devices EMS had to connect to and manage, we created another southbound virtual IP, so now, for all the devices that are managed by EMS, the devices also seamlessly use one virtual IP as the EMS server devices need to connect to. The whole database, including devices operational, configuration, performance, security and user data, was synched and replicated to the standby server immediately on a constant basis. We have a secure protocol on boot up or failover, to make sure only one of the EMS server takes the active state, becomes the master and takes over the virtual IP addresses, while the other EMS server in the pair takes on the secondary standby state.    Environment: This web based EMS/NMS software is built using Java (server side), Java Swing UI, Java Spring, Eclipse, MySQL database, Linux, LAMP, C/C++, IpTables, SSL, TLS, Jetty Web server, FCAPS, TR-069, CLI, SNMP, Jersey REST (JSON / HTTP) Web Services API, Swagger for REST documentation, AAA, Radius, SAML, LDAP, XML, Python, Bash & Ant. SOAP API (for interface to SAML SSO servers). TestNG for unit test cases. Software Development, Design, Architect and Lead Powerassure - Santa Clara, CA February 2010 to February 2013 Full stack Developer, team lead and architect for Powerassure's Data Center infrastructure management DCIM / NMS / OSS / BSS software to manage power, energy usage and assets. It manages servers, racks and power devices (power strips, meters, etc.) and collect extensive data on how much power is consumed by various types of IT (Servers, Racks, etc.) and Facility (Air conditioning, heating, etc.) assets. Goal was to help customer save of electricity bill also efficiently use their data center assets. Inventory management part of the software also helps data center user their existing assets more efficiently. The Analytics part of software would suggest which servers to retire (not efficient, consume too much power). Optimization part of software will move applications and virtual machines to "less used" servers so some servers can be shutdown to save on electricity bill.  • Company dissolved after 3 years.    Environment: LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL and PHP). Flash for Client UI. Server also supported SOAP. Device interfaces (to manage devices) supported were SNMP, VMWare, Modbus, Bacnet, Telnet, TCP, IPMI, ILO, Internal JSON/HTTP API for client UI Software Development, Design and Architect Ericsson - San Jose, CA February 2009 to February 2010 • Designing and implementing their EntriView Element / Network Management Systems (EMS/NMS/OAM/OSS) to manage their large scale GPON / DSL / FTTN deployments for their Tier-1 customers (i.e. service providers like AT&T, etc.). Also worked on north bound integration into OSS systems.  • At high level, it is a client server architecture with high degree of scalability and HA (High Availability). To achieve that level of scalability and availability, the server side (supporting full FCAPS) is built on distributed services based architecture, with Spring/RMI services (running in separate JVMs, even separate servers) for Discovery service, provisioning service, Fault management service, PM (Performance management) service, Hibernate based Data Access service, etc.  • Contracting work.    Environment: Java, Spring / Hibernate Frameworks, Swing, RMI, ORACLE, JACC, CORBA, TL1, SNMP and UNIX / Linux, Multi tenancy software architecture Software Development, Design, Architect and Lead Opvista - Milpitas, CA February 2007 to February 2009 • Full stack designed and implementation WaveMaster Element Management System (EMS/OSS/OAM), to manage OpVista2000 Intelligent Optical Transport System. The 3-tier EMS architecture was build using Java Swing, J2EE, Eclipse and Zoho (previous AdventNet) WebNMS platform. The client GUI provides a view of the entire network, individual shelves, alarm interface, wavelength provisioning, and network performance. The core server tier is also C/C++ based, with MySQL database, supported on UNIX (Solaris 10). Southbound communication to NE (Network Elements) is via TL1 protocol and also "RPC over UDP" protocol. Northbound communication to OSSs is supported via SNMP protocol.  • Firmware / embedded software development to design and implement common management interfaces (CLI, SNMP, TL1, Web/SML, etc. to external world) for their management/control card and various line cards. C/C++ was used with VxWorks/Linux as the real time operating systems and embeddedMIND as the middleware platform. The line cards aggregate multiple 1 or 10 GB client-side Ethernet traffic lines, to one 10/40/100 GB SONET optical signal, that is sent using one standard ITU optical wavelength.  • Company dissolved after 2 years. Software Development, Design, Architect and Lead Symmetricom - San Jose, CA 1999 to 2006 • Created (architecture, design and implementation) the TimePictra EMS / NMS / OSS / BSS product line.  • Technical Product Marketing (3 years) - overlapping role with above engineering responsibilities.  • Designed & implemented Replication/Resiliency product option, to support 'High Availability'.  • Designed a patented (as sole inventor) SNMP MIB, that saves customers integration costs of integration their EMS in to higher-level NMS systems.  • Created Java based "Multiple NE Simulator", which could simulate TL1 behavior of up to 5000 TCP/IP Network elements. It was extensively used to for customer demonstration and regression/stress testing.  • Technical lead and coordinated work between geographically dispersed development teams.  • Collaborated with architects/specialists of 3rd parties (HP, Acterna, etc.) to integrate our EMS into their higher-level NMS systems, HP Service Guard, HP OpenView, TeMIP, Netcool, etc.  • Helped Sales for technical product presentations and installations, and marketing for technical roadmap management.  • Created Java based "SNMP Agent Tester" (using JoeSNMP open source library) application, for product verification and customer demonstrations of our products features.  • Technology: C/C++, Oracle Database / PL-SQL / Forms / Web Application Server, SNMP, UNIX, etc.  • Company is dissolved. Software Developer and Technical Lead Hewlett Packard - Santa Clara, CA 1997 to 1999 • Participated in architecture, design and implementation of HP's OSMF (Open System Management Framework, an EMS / OSS / BSS) product line. It was both a NMS and an EMS product. Used both the Oracle Database and Oracle Application server, for web interface to our product.  • Technical lead and coordinated work between geographically dispersed development teams.  • Product presentations, installations and demonstrations to end customers.  • Technology: C/C++, Oracle Database / PL-SQL / Forms, UNIX, CMIP/Q3, etc.  • SNMP (Emanate, SNMP Research).  • HP division I worked at was sold to Symmetricom in 1999. Education M.S. in Computer Science in Computer Science Devi Ahilya Vishwavidyalaya - Indore, Madhya Pradesh MBA Santa Clara University - Santa Clara, CA NIST (National Institute of Standards Skills Java, Linux, Spring