Front End Web Developer Front End Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front End Web Developer - In-house PMS Danvers, MA ? 10 years of experience as Frontend/UI developer. Experience in designing and developing User Interface (UI) using HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, Typescript, jQuery, Bootstrap3/4, AngularJS, Angular 2, Angular 4, Angular 6, JSON, and AJAX that follows W3C Web Standards and are browser compatible.  ? experience in PeopleSoft Administrator.  ? Skillful in developing Responsive Web Design using CSS3 Media Queries and Bootstrap also, created responsive web application for various devices.  ? Experience in all phase of SDLC like Requirement Analysis, Implementation and Maintenance, and extensive experience with Agile and SCRUM.  ? Experience in working with AngularJS to implement Single page applications (SPAs) using Directives, Modules, Expressions, Routers, Views, Model and Controller.  ? Great with Agile methodologies very effective team player in evolving design to best suit target goals.  ? Experience in developing interactive web applications using JavaScript, Angular, jQuery, HTML, CSS and integration of Restful APIs.  ? Experience in working on modern MEAN STACK ExpressJS, AngularJS and NodeJS.  ? Good understanding on Restful API integration with the application  ? Proficiency in building and designing Responsive Web Design (RWD) with CSS media Queries and Bootstrap.  ? Extensive used Angular components like controllers, directives, factory and service resources, routing, dependency injection, 2-way data binding, filters and events.  ? Developed single page applications (SPA) using MEAN stack: Express, Angular 2.0 and Node.js v4.  ? Good experience in REST API integration, using open source build (lint and concatenation) and package management tools like NPM (Node Package Manager).  ? Extensive experience working in both AGILE/SCRUM and SDLC based development environment  ? Experience with Application Servers and Web Servers such as J boss and Apache Tomcat.  ? Skills in creating and accessing various databases using SQL queries, PL/SQL scripts on Aqua Data Studio.  ? Experienced in source code management/review and branch configuration using VCS like GIT, VSTS.  ? Good understanding of Model-View-Controller (MVC) pattern.  ? Followed TDD approach on the angular code with Jasmine as the testing framework and Karma as the test runner tool. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Front End Web Developer In-house PMS August 2018 to Present Responsibilities as Front End Web Developer  ? Development, implementation and enhancement of In-house PMS application using JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, GIT, JSON, AJAX.  ? Developed Responsive Single-Page websites templates using HTML5, CSS3/SCSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Typescript, Rest API's, Bootstrap3, flexbox, Angular4/5, Drupal8, ES6  ? Collaborate with coworkers and implemented different Components, built in Angular form validations.  ? Integrated with an Agile team, retrospectives, backlog grooming, team planning sessions, tools like Jira, Confluence.  ? Implemented projects using Agile SCRUM methodology. Involved in daily standup meetings, sprint showcase and retrospective  ? Bug fixing and issue resolution  ? Used web based GIT repository manager with issue tracking features.  ? Creation of responsive design and cross browser support.    Technologies: JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, GIT, NPM, JSON, AJAX, agile workflow, GIT, JIRA, Confluence. Front End Web Developer LAAgencia - Chicago, IL July 2016 to August 2018 Responsibilities as Front End Web Developer  ? Responsible for designing adbanners for Google ads using HTML5, CSS3.  ? Responsible for front end responsive and attractive web designing using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap,  ? jQuery, JavaScript  ? Responsible for providing support and bug fix of applications  ? Understand the client's requirement and work accordingly with the team within the time deadline  ? Managed and maintained the attractiveness and contents of websites.  Technologies: HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, jQueryMySQL, AJAX, JSON Front End Developer Travelers Insurance June 2014 to July 2016 Responsibilities as Front End Developer  ? Responsible for re-structuring of application, development, implementation and enhancement of application/Web pages using Angular 6, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, GIT, JSON, AJAX.  ? Involved in all the phases of SDLC including Requirements Collection, Design & Analysis of the Customer Specifications and development of the application for dynamic user experience.  ? Offshore communication and helping the team in understanding client requirements.  ? Involved in requirement gathering, designing, development, UI reviews, and maintenance.  ? Coded extensively using JavaScript MVC Framework AngularJS to make rich internet web application for a Single page app.  ? Designed a login mockup with token based authentication for user using the MEAN stack.  ? Developed front-end UI pages to support data access and user authorization.  ? Used CSS3, Bootstrap and wireframes and Mockup's for getting the dashboard responsive.  ? Coding and testing Workflow through JavaScript framework (Angular 6) by creating modules and components adding Functionalities and coupling them together into a functional app and designing few HTML templates based on the requirement and adding API's to the component.  ? Used Node JS as a proxy to interact with RESTful services and interacting with SQL Database.  ? Created Typescript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component-based architecture provided by Angular 6.  ? Used various features in AngularJS like data binding, routing, custom filters, custom directives to meet various customized requirements.  ? Provided client side validations using AngularJS framework.  ? Working with Bootstrap Components which are written in Angular JS using Angular-UI components.  ? Implemented a Continuous Delivery pipeline with GitHub.  ? Bug fixing and issue resolution  ? Daily Client interaction to understand the requirement for the system.  ? Helping Team in resolving technical issue.  ? JIRA Bug creation for issue tracking.  ? Also used web based GIT repository manager with issue tracking features.  ? Implemented Reactive form throughout the application and performed both angular build in form validation and custom validation.  ? Called the Restful web service calls for POST, PUT, DELETE and GET methods.  ? Deployment of code in DEV, TEST, QA, Pre-PROD and PROD environment.  ? Code built and Deployed to QA. Giving the Demo for the developed pages for the approval.  ? Developed and Also tested website using the MEAN (Express, AngularJS, Node.js) stack.  Technologies: Angular 6, Agile, Apache Tomcat v9.0, Target Process, JSON, NPM, Visual Studio code 1.22, IntelliJ, Microsoft SQL server 2012, Web API 2, Bootstrap, Eclipse IDE, HTML5, CSS3. Software Engineer McDonald's May 2012 to June 2014 Created Web pages for the application using the listed web technologies  ? Implemented client-side validations using JavaScript on the pages  ? Bug fixing and browser support  ? Created dynamic pages for the common functionality shared between multiple clients  ? Worked on Multi-client architecture for the application  ? Responsive page design for the application  ? Integrated various jQuery widgets helpful for the system  ? Used the SDLC methodology for the development  Technologies: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JSON, jQuery, Ajax Software Engineer Alcoa April 2011 to May 2012 Performed Peopletool upgrade task starting from Dev. to PROD environment (i.e. change assistant configuration, Peopletool installation etc.)  ? Applying fixes/patches/maintenance packs for PeopleSoft applications.  ? Automate manual activities as far as possible by developing scripts in UNIX.  ? Performing project migration from Dev. to Test and Test to Prod servers.  ? Refresh of Non-prod applications with that of the prod data. Software Engineer March 2009 to April 2011 Troubleshooting web, application and batch server related issues.  ? Backing up and restoring the databases. Performing database related tuning.  ? Created shell script to send a trace file generated by user on their mail id.  ? Applying patches and bundles according to the maintenance schedule  ? SSO setup for external users.  ? Configured file upload utility.  ? Implementation of PeopleSoft forgot password link  ? Automated the restart of process schedulers, application server and web servers both on Unix  ? Supported DBA team, UNIX team and Windows team during their patching activity. Education Bachelor's Skills Git, Html, Javascript, Bootstrap, Typescript