Project Manager/ Senior Business analyst Project Manager/ Senior Business analyst PROJECT MANAGER - Proskauer Rose LLP New York, NY • Detail-oriented and self-motivated with great communication and project management skills.  • 10 years of extensive experience with managing, designing and developing software solutions.  • Proficient in managing all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including development, testing and support to ensure timely delivery of multiple projects using waterfall and agile methodologies.  • PMP certified experienced in facilitating project charter, project kick off meeting, requirement gathering, work break down structure, risk mitigation and risk controls, quality control and project closure and reporting.  • Expertise in creating Project Management Plans with clear deliverables and milestones.  • Authored Business Requirement, Software Requirement Specifications (SRS), Data Flow Diagrams (DFD), Change Control and Configuration Management Plans, Runbooks, Roles and Responsibilities Matrix, Use Case Documentation, Requirement Traceability Matrix (RTM), Training Manuals and PowerPoint Presentations (PPT)  • Collaborated with cross functional team including HR, Finance, Payroll, eDiscovery, Records, Accounting, Records.  • Managed and coordinated the relationship between business and technology teams  • Facilitated steering committee meetings and working sessions - provided regular updates to senior management on status of various projects.  • Assisted in reviewing SOWs for several projects. Work Experience Project Manager/ Senior Business analyst Proskauer Rose LLP - New York, NY June 2013 to Present  Lead a 15-member team for development, implementation and support of enterprise applications implemented across Asia, Europe  and USA, systems within preset timelines and budget  • Used requirement gathering techniques including brainstorming, story mapping and facilitated daily scrum meetings, sprint planning and review.  • Automated the employee ID generation process for HR system and reduced the new hire application process time to 50%  • Implemented best practices for managing cloud solutions using ITIL practices  • Fostered collaboration among stakeholders and acted as liaison to facilitate communication and resolved project issues including scope creep, resource shortages.  • Facilitated process improvements by automating the repeatable task and improved the efficiency.  • Managed testing cycles, including test plan creation, development of scripts and Implemented user acceptance testing with a focus on documenting defects and executing test cases   • Guided teams and refined Agile techniques throughout the journey and evolution of delivery cycles, establishing documentation framework to support Agile methodology implementation with waterfall-centric delivery team.      SOFTWARE DEVELOPER BEM Systems Inc November 2012 to June 2013 • Reviewed business issues and design efficient solutions to raise business output.  • Implemented database structure and design in SQL server 2005, 2008  • Worked on reporting module to produce standard reports as well as ad-hoc reports.  • Provided project scope analysis with timelines and delivery estimates.  • Interacted with clients for requirements gathering and design the application as per the business needs. APPLICATION ANALYST Newmark Knight Frank - New York, NY March 2010 to November 2012 • Analyzed different department's requirements and designed software solutions.  • Reviewed business issues and implemented business logic, web forms and web services utilizing Microsoft .NET framework's features and using C#, Asp.net 2.0 and SQL server 2005  • Provided project scope analysis with timelines and delivery estimates.  • Developed end to end internal software solutions from concept to deployment.  • Performed software troubleshooting, upgrades and maintenance and testing. DEVELOPER Tara Energy - Houston, TX August 2008 to September 2009 • Developed and supported applications using VB.Net.  • Performed QA test and assisted in documenting the testing scripts  • Contributed in testing and troubleshooting the issues.  • Worked on reporting tools like SSRS and SSIS packages. Education M.S. in Computer Science University of Houston at Clearlake - Houston, TX December 2008 B.S in Bachelor of Computer Engineering University of Mumbai June 2006 Certifications/Licenses Project Management Professional (PMP) Driver's License