Senior Software Developer Senior <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Software Developer - Logicor Worldwide Logistics, Inc Westminster, CA A position of Senior Software Developer Work Experience Senior Software Developer Logicor Worldwide Logistics, Inc - Mesa, AZ August 2005 to Present • Design and implement a 3-tier shipping software with DB2 backend database, Java stored procedures for business logic and ASP.NET front-end. In charge of compliance certification for the major carriers such as DHL, UPS, and FedEx.  • Design and implement Java components for iSeries.  • Work with a team in India to enhance the shipping software to support Oracle.  • Design and implement C#.NET and XML utility applications to support QA and Installation teams such as ScriptBuilder, ZPL2Img, etc.  • Work with a team to design and implement a new shipping software using Windows Communication Foundation, Entity Framework, SQL Server and DB2 backend database. Senior Software Developer ACOM Solutions, Inc June 2004 to August 2005 • Designed and implemented the email and fax functions for iSeries application using Websphere and C++ accessing DB2 backend database.  • Designed and implemented the service program for iSeries/Windows to convert PCL (Printer Control Language) files to Adobe PDF files using Websphere and C++.  • Maintained Windows applications, EZConnect and EZCheck, using Visual Basic.NET and SQL Server 2000 backend database. Senior Software Developer Pfastship, Inc - Santa Ana, CA October 2000 to January 2004 • Designed and implemented a complete new shipping software using DB2 backend database with Java stored procedures and VB.NET 3-tier front end. In charge of compliance certification for the two main carriers UPS and FedEx. Data to ship can be imported from many different sources. Shipping process can have plugins for client customization. DB2 backend with Java stored procedures can run on Windows and AS/400 platforms. Built carrier reports with Crystal Reports 9.0  • Build shipping labels using Printer Control Languages supported by Zebra and Monarch label printers.  • In addition, wrote and maintained an old version of shipping software using Visual Basic 6.0 front-end and SQL Server database. Responsible for building user interfaces, writing ActiveX components and writing SQL stored procedures. Education Master Degree in Computer Science in Computer Science California State University of Long Beach 1999 to 2002 Bachelor Degree in Computer Science in Computer Science Polytechnic University of Saigon 1986 to 1991 Skills Java