Software Engineer <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Software Engineer - Elsevier Dayton, OH Work Experience Software Engineer Elsevier - Dayton, OH October 2016 to Present Initially serving as a client engagement representative, I helped solve issues that outside developers encountered while implementing Elsevier's various in-house APIs. This included helping them in their coding efforts by demonstrating proper use our data-flows and models, administering accounts via administrative tools or direct database manipulation, helping maintain documentation, and assisting in configuration management when we released new versions of the APIs. I would also interface with QA and product management teams helping triage and coordinate issues that our development teams needed to address. I later transitioned back into pure development efforts. I helped in the transition to using Amazon cloud services for our back end coding efforts. This includes both legacy and new development efforts as part of an Agile team. Coding was primarily in Java, but some work involved using React and NodeJS with other JavaScript libraries. Software Engineer NextGen Federal Systems - Dayton, OH June 2015 to August 2016 As a software engineer I serve as part of a small team of developers in the government sector. Current focus is on developing server side code in a scalable architecture using Docker. This is includes using Amazon Web Services API for data storage and transfer. Additionally responsibilities focused on a serving as a contractor to Analytical Graphics Inc. in support of the space based catalog system. Senior Software Developer Edaptive Computing - Miamisburg, OH September 2013 to February 2015 As a senior web developer, I was part of a team dedicated to producing a web application for program acquisitions for a government client. This involved in expanding the current web interface using Prime Faces, and Flash as well as creating and maintaining the back-end application logic using J2EE with SOAP web calls. Additionally, I was responsible for maintaining the MySQL database and data model for our group. As a senior developer, I also assisted or provided guidance regarding database operations and control. I volunteered extended hours to shorten the development cycle for a project which was beyond its original planned release. Additionally, I attempted to focus the team to perform more integration testing to reduce the occurrence of development errors. Software Engineer MacAulay Brown, Inc - Beavercreek, OH April 2008 to September 2013 My most recent responsibilities have been as a web developer, both modifying and creating new code (Java, and JSP) in support of a large web portal system. I had also served as the main programmer on a thermal analysis project. Here I was responsible for completing multiple phases of development including new design, testing and configuration management. This effort included using both C/C++ and Java languages. The client was impressed with the effort and as such I continued maintaining and adding to the system for over three years. Also, within a different project, I worked with other members of a software development team responsible for design and software implementation of an error/issue tracking system. This project which is implemented using Java Server Faces is designed to help track issues as they follow a workflow involving both military and civilian contractors. Software Engineer Northrop Grummann Corporation - Fairborn, OH May 2004 to April 2008 As a mid-level software engineer I was responsible for design and assisting in the development of multiple web and client applications including system modeling tools. In addition to using Java (J2EE) and accessing an Oracle database for a web service. I have been responsible for the development of a Lightweight Directory Access Protocol (LDAP) tools. Additional projects included working on translation web services, and being responsible for the design and continued work on a Management Information system. This system, which was designed to track translation workflow and report on system efficiency, was coded using Microsoft .NET connected to MS SQL Server. Application Programmer Computer Sciences Corporation - Fairborn, OH October 1999 to April 2004 As a programmer, I developed applications in support of an Oracle stock control database. Past work included creating JavaBeans for an inventory control project, with additional experience JSP and Java Swing classes and PL SQL procedures, functions and. I also used Oracle Reports Builder to generate dynamic reports and Rational Rose to develop model code and dataflow diagrams. Finally, I was also responsible for development of test plans. Adjunct Instructor/Guest Lecturer Wright State University Pre-college Programs - Dayton, OH June 1997 to November 1999 Responsibilities while at Wright State included co-instructing summer institutes on multimedia and web page design in JavaScript and HTML. I have also guest lectured for both graduate and undergraduate classes for Oracle and DBII databases, taught BASIC computer language for Saturday Enrichment Programs to children grades 4-9 and developed the web site for Pre-College Programming Office. Education Bachelor of Science in Management Information Systems in Management Information Systems Wright State University Skills Eclipse (10+ years), Java (10+ years), Jboss, Jsf, Jsp, Git, Pvcs, Subversion, Svn, Systems development, Systems integration, Javascript Assessments Data Analysis — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's skill in interpreting and producing graphs, identifying trends, and drawing justifiable conclusions from data. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/rzubkef-s4q3lwas Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information SKILLS MATRIX  Operating Systems  Microsoft Windows (various) 10+ years Unix (various) 5 years Linux (various) 2 years    Systems Development Life Cycle  Systems Integration 5 years Coding 10+ years Database Development 4 years  Systems Development 5+ years Data Modeling 4 years Database Design 4 years  Requirements Traceability 1 year Unit Testing 5+ years Integration Testing 2 years    Data Access  DAO 5 years JDBC/ODBC 5 years ADO.NET 1 years  Hibernate 1 year    Data Modeling/Design Tools  Rational Rose 2 years ERWin 1 year UML 2 years    Databases  Oracle 8i/9i/10g 5 years Microsoft Access 2 years Microsoft SQL Server 1 year    Development Tools  Eclipse 5 years Exceed 3 years TOAD 2 years  PVCS Dimensions 2 years Visual C++ 1 years Subversion (SVN) 4 years  Git 2 year Visual Studio.NET 1 year Enterprise Manager 1 year    Programming Languages  Java 10+ years SQL 6 years PL/SQL 5 years  C++ 2 years Visual C++(with.NET) 2 years    Web Technologies  XML4 years JSF 1 year JSP 2 years  JBoss 2 years Tomcat/Apache 2 years GlassFish 1 year