ETL Developer ETL <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer Iowa City, IA Analytical and tenacious mainframe and COBOL developer with 15+ years of experience creating robust, scalable, accurate and maintainable data solutions. Expert at understanding complex problems and applying unique solutions to solve them. Highly knowledgeable and motivated to make things happen. Quick learner with ability to prioritize, mitigate risks and exceed customer expectations. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience ETL Developer Praescient Analytics April 2019 to Present Contract Pending SENIOR ETL CONSULTANT Navigant Consulting - Denver, CO February 2017 to October 2018 Developed data warehouses and data mining tools for 35 hospitals with a 6 person team.  ? Oversaw 3 offshore personnel and managed daily operations for ~50 gigabytes of data moved monthly.  ? Installed and modified ETL systems to extract and convert data from many different systems and transferred to data warehouses to be mined.  ? Automated extract and load processes on server and client systems to SQL databases allowing data to be mined in many different dimensions and reported on using custom tools built in SSIS.  ? Identified and eliminated code debt to make the system more efficient and increase the velocity of future development.  ? Performance tuned databases to decrease extract and load times by 80% on some monthly tasks.  ? Led quality assurance efforts on new or changed products including writing and documenting test plans, setting up reusable templates, writing SQL queries and peer reviews of design and code changes.  ? Created a deep understanding of the data architecture and supported the product by adding new custom features and fixing bugs in an 24/7 operation.  ? Technologies: Pervasive ETL, SSIS, SSRS, MS-SQL Databases, Excel, SAS, TFS, Tableaux and Silverlight. ETL DEVELOPER Pearson Educational Measurement - Iowa City, IA October 2009 to February 2017 Developed large scale ETL systems in a dynamic, fast-paced environment.  ? Automated all ETL processes using CA-Workload Automation tools and Rundeck in Linux and Windows environments eliminating the need for human intervention and manual error.  ? Developed systems to extract data from varied sources to bring together into rigorously detailed and changing output formats.  ? Performed complex data transformations on terabytes of data to meet customers' expectations under strict deadlines.  ? Successfully combined information together across many varying and complex internal systems to go through a single new software allowing for easier scalability.  ? Led software code reviews and participated in requirements, functional specification and test plan reviews.  ? Wrote technical specifications, including troubleshooting guides and user guides, for staff training.  ? Contractor, promoted to full time 2016 ? Technologies: SQL, NoSQL, Oracle, MySQL, CSV, Excel, Mainframe VSAM, DB2, XML, JSON, CA-Workload Automation, Rundeck, Amazon Web Services (AWS), Redshift, Perforce, Jenkins, Sourcetree, Perl, Pervasive, Linux & Windows Environments. Application Developer University of Iowa Hospitals and Clinics - Iowa City, IA October 2007 to October 2009 Iowa City, IA ? Technical lead supporting legacy mainframe systems and systems transition to EPIC EMR.  ? Modeled solutions through gap analysis to provide user functionality.  ? Wrote code to re-engineer legacy medical records tracking system.  ? Mentored and trained 5 programmers while fostering a fun teamwork environment.  ? Acquired necessary certifications in several of EPIC's Core modules to allow a deep understanding of the data architecture.  ? Created mission critical reports in Business Objects/Business intelligence software.  ? Technical point of contact to train hospital staff on EPIC ? Technologies: EPIC, Legacy Mainframe, Business Objects/Business Intelligence (Business Object XI) SOFTWARE DEVELOPER -- MAINFRAME NCS Pearson/NCS - Iowa City, IA February 1992 to February 2007 ?       Educational testing industry – 15 years leading the development of scoring systems to collect, edit, aggregate, and report millions of students across the globe  ?       High-stakes, high-pressure environment  ?       Assisted with RFPs and Wide-band Delphi estimates for all aspects of development  ?       Automated processes and workflows  ?       Lead efforts to improve new and legacy systems to assist a large operations team   ?       Technologies:  z/OS, SAS, COBOL, AFP, ISPF, JCL, EXPEDITER, TSO ISPF, IDMS, DB2, CICS, FileAID, REXX/Clists, PROCS, FileAID, IDCAMS among many others Education Bachelor's in Computer Science, Chemistry University of Iowa - Iowa City, IA Skills Java (5 years), ETL (10+ years), Mainframe (10+ years), JCL (10+ years), COBOL (10+ years), Perl (5 years), Linux (6 years), Bash Scripting, SAS (10+ years), Oracle, DB2 (10+ years), SQL (10+ years), MS SQL Server (5 years), MYSQL, Javascript, PHP, Git, MYSQL Links http://linkedin.com/in/RDNZL