Reverse Engineer/ Software Developer Reverse Engineer/ <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer / BI Developer Issaquah, WA A motivated full stack software developer with 6+ years of broad expertise in various technologies, collaborating with cross-functional internal and external clients to drive innovative software and Business Intelligence solutions. 2+ years of experience in using IT skills in research and analysis. Self-starter, quick learner, team player, time bound, detail oriented with excellent analytical, logical and problem-solving skills. Customer oriented with exceptional interpersonal, organizational and communication skills.    Core strengths include:    Software Development Database Architecture BI Solutions Business Analysis Reverse Engineering  Team Management Client Interactions Application Maintenance Technical Support Data Analysis Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Reverse Engineer/ Software Developer Costco Wholesale - Issaquah, WA 2018 to Present Responsible for reverse engineering and maintenance of applications/ reports and rebuilding them on suitable, viable environment through detailed analysis, reverse engineering processes and client interactions.  • Responsible for analysis and documentation of the reports/applications as a part of reverse engineering  • Working with other teams in Costco IS to rebuild the solutions into an appropriate stable environment.  • Provided and implemented solutions to enhance security, disaster recovery  • Responsible for support, maintenance and enhancements of the applications, reports and scheduled jobs.  • User interactions to understand their needs and working with them to resolve issues with the existing applications Senior Software Engineer, Team Lead Larsen & Toubro InfoTech 2014 to 2015 Responsible for client interactions, supervising and assuring end to end delivery of software solutions according to quality standards and client requirements, Providing BI (Reporting) Solutions  • Client Interactions for requirement gathering, project updates, UAT, sign-offs, application demonstrations and launch.  • Directed the team, analyzed requirements, architected solutions, estimated the costs and risks involved, did project planning, supervised and reviewed all the processes of the PDLC lifecycle done by the team.  • Designed, developed and deployed dynamic BI solutions (including MIS and multilevel drilldown reports) using SSRS as part of the systems developed.  • Designed User interface/User Experience and High-Level design of the proposed digital solutions.  • Designed Database Architectures and maintained Relational Integrity.  • Documented all PDLC processes using standard templates adhering to all quality standards maintained by LTI. Software Engineer, SharePoint Developer/ Analyst Larsen & Toubro InfoTech 2011 to 2014 Responsible for providing dynamic BI solutions along with developing, maintaining, supporting SharePoint/C#.Net applications in adherence to quality standards and business specification.  • Involved in all key processes of Project Development Life Cycle, and Microsoft full stack development  • Provided Business Intelligence (BI) solutions in the form of reports and dashboards (design, generate and Deploy) using SSRS and MS Excel.  • Worked on MS SQL Server for creation of database, tables and maintaining relational integrity; writing and executing queries and stored procedures.,  • Developed collaborative and content management application portals using SharePoint and C#.Net  • Developed software solutions using VBA Macros (VB Scripting) for MS Excel.  • Created and managed SharePoint out of the box features including Discussion boards, blogs, Calendar, content types, Search, permission levels (SharePoint Groups), navigation; Event Receivers; Created Workflows and Edited web page layouts using SharePoint Designer; Provided custom solutions in MS SharePoint using C#.Net, SSRS, MS SQL, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, LINQ, CAML; Worked with SharePoint Central Administration  • Setting up/ working on Development, UAT and Production application environment.  • Wrote and executed command prompt and PowerShell scripts to manage SharePoint sites.  • Interacted with end users and customers for customer training and issue resolution. Prepared Training Videos and User manuals to share knowledge on application usage. Education MS in (Master of Science- On Hold), Business Intelligence and Data Analytics - Will complete the course online from John Hopkin’s University, MD Stevens Institute of Technology 2016 to 2017 BS in (Bachelor of Engineering), Electronics & Telecommunication University of Mumbai - Mumbai, Maharashtra May 2011 Skills MICROSOFT VISUAL STUDIO, VISUAL STUDIO, C#, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, PYTHON, SVN, VBA, MICROSOFT SQL SERVER, SQL SERVER, ORACLE, SQL, MS SHAREPOINT, SHAREPOINT, SSRS, T-SQL, ASP, CSS, ASP.NET, jQuery, MYSQL, HTML 5 Certifications/Licenses Microsoft Certificate: ‘Introduction to Python for Data Science’ Present Microsoft Certified Professional (MCTS: Microsoft SharePoint, Application Development) Present Assessments Data Analysis — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's skill in interpreting and producing graphs, identifying trends, and drawing justifiable conclusions from data. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/aelab8najborn596 Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.