Senior Software Developer / Team Lead Senior <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> / Team Lead Senior Software Developer / Team Lead - Stellar Technology Solutions LLC East Stroudsburg, PA • 20+ years of experience in development of application using n-tier and client-server architecture.  • 15 years of experience with EAServer.  • Expert knowledge of OOP.  • Hands on technology experience of designing and developing software web applications with SAP PowerBuilder 12.6, Microsoft .NET Framework/3.0/3.5/4.0 using C#  • Expert knowledge of programming on WebServices, WCF, SOAP, Markup languages and AJAX.  • Proficiency in Visual Studio 2017.  • Expert knowledge of N-tier layered architecture using EAServer 5 (Jaguar).  • Database maintenance, and schema design for Sybase ASE 15/16.  • Extensively worked on writing Sybase ASE 15/16 Stored Procedures, Triggers, Functions, Views and Database Design, TSQL.  • Good knowledge in using the JavaScript frameworks like JQuery.  • Experience in developing applications involving technologies like Windows Communication Foundation (WCF).  • Extensive experience in web-based page and site designs using HTML, DHTML, CSS, AJAX.  • Expert knowledge of versioning tools like TortoiseSVN and VSS (Visual Source Safe).  • Excellent Experience in onsite-offshore model interacting with clients and Onsite managers.  • Very good Team player, self-motivated, creative, hardworking professional with good organizational, leadership, interpersonal and communication skills. Managing team of 6 developers. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Software Developer / Team Lead Stellar Technology Solutions LLC - Stroudsburg, PA March 2003 to Present Developing and supporting web based application iPhiCore (BackOffice). This product is providing wide set of financial and operational functionalities for charitable organizations.    Responsibilities:  • Participated in design of major parts of the application.  • Developed requirements and design of UI for developers.  • Designed changes and tuned up queries to improve performance of the functionality.  • To implement Business Logic, used SAP PowerBuilder 12.6 with Sybase EAServer.  • Implemented different part of application especially financial area.  • Involved in developing server-side code using JavaScript, HTML, CSS, JQuery.  • Developed COM objects using C# to provide communication between functionality on PowerBuilder and WCF.  • Enriched web UI of the application by integrating into HTML page generated by EAServer JQuery UI components.  • Used AJAX to populate, validate data on the HTML page.  • Developed Sybase ASE Stored Procedures, Triggers, Views, and Cursors for accessing the database.  • Created WCF Services to expose business reports as services for clients.  • Created Authorization/ Authentication Web Server using OAth2 protocol.  • Created WCF and SOAP Services to provide integration with client application.  • Used TortoiseSVN and VSS for all the source code maintenance among the whole team members.    Boscov's Reading PA PowerBuilder / EAServer Consultant June 2018 to June 2018 Consulting and supporting during migration and deployment on production n-tier application (Invoice Matchin)    Responsibilities:  • Resolving problem occurred during migration from PowerBuilder 7 to PowerBuilder 12.5.  • Consulting on functionality deployed on EAServer, fixing problem with connection to DB, used SAP PowerBuilder 12.5 with Sybase EAServer 6  • Used VSS for all the source code maintenance among the whole team members. Software Developer InfoPulse ltd - Kiev, UA April 2002 to February 2003 Client-server application Globe$ 4.10 covered full set of financial need for an organization such as The cash flows, support on all front and back office tasks for dealing in financial markets.    Responsibilities:  • Developed different part of the project, implemented UI and business logic using PowerBuilder 7/8.  • Implemented different part of database object (stored procedures, views) on Oracle 8i database.  • Designed changes and tuned up queries to improve performance of the functionality.  • Using PowerSoft Translation Toolkit translated application interface from English to French version.  • Used VSS for all the source code maintenance among the whole team members. Software Developer Island Firm Kharkov - UA 1994 to March 2002 Responsibilities:  • Developed "from scratch" a client-server project for provisions stocktaking and accounting for a restaurant. The project used OLPT in intensive operating flow.  • Designed and implemented UI using Delphi 5-7, JEDI, RxLib  • Implemented reporting system using FastReport utility  • Analyzed dataflow and created database structure accordingly using Sybase ASA 7/9  • Implemented business logic on application and database level.  • Implemented data replication between consolidate and remote databases using Sybase SQL Remote  • The project was remotely supported from 2003 to 2012, updates were created by using InnoSetup utility Education Master's degree in computers in Engineer The Kharkov State Technical University of Radio 1994 Bachelor's degree in computers in systems and networks The Kharkov ElectroTechnical College 1990 Skills DATABASE, MICROSOFT ACCESS, ORACLE, SYBASE, .NET, VISUAL STUDIO, APPLICATION SERVER, C#, DELPHI, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, JSON, WCF, POWERBUILDER, SCRIPTING, XML, AJAX, INTERNET INFORMATION SERVICES, IIS, JAVA Additional Information Technical Skills:  Programming Language: PowerScript, C#, Delphi, Java  .Net Technologies: SOAP, WCF, COM  Mark-up/Scripting Language: JavaScript, JQuery, XML, JSON, HTML, AJAX, Angular,  Database: Sybase ASE 15/16, Sybase Adaptive ServerAnywhere 7/9, Oracle 8i, Microsoft Access  IDE: Visual Studio 2015, PowerBuilder 6.5 - 12.6, Appeon PowerBuilder 2017, Delphi 5-7  Operating System: Window 10/8.1/7//2000/98, Windows Server 2012 R2/2008 R2/2005/2003  Application Server: Internet information services (IIS) 5.0/6.0/7.0/7.5, Sybase EAServer 5 (Jaguar)