Software Lead Engineer <span class="hl">Software</span> Lead Engineer Software Lead Engineer - KForce, Inc Chantilly, VA Over 22 years of experience in software design, development, testing and maintenance.   (I'm only interested in being contacted by employers directly for REMOTE software developer/architect positions - third-party recruiters, please don't contact me). Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Lead Engineer KForce, Inc - Dulles, VA June 2018 to Present Project: Developed PMO Tracking Web Application.  • Led a team of software developers and DevOps activities across teams and developed a PMO Tracking Web Application in NodeJS and Angular. The PMO Tracking Web Application is primarily tracking the security process and project risks/accomplishments for the company. Software Solutions Architect/Lead Developer NJVC, Inc - Chantilly, VA October 2014 to June 2018 Project: Designed/Developed PACES and BAP Web Application/Portal.  • Led a small team of software developers, database administrators, and testers and coordinated DevOps activities across teams as well as performing the functions of a hands-on developer.  • Developed PMO HR Web application that keeps track of candidate hiring and on-boarding process using Angular 6 and NodeJS.  • Used Agile/SCRUM methodology to develop our products, performed the duties of Vendor Management and filled the technical positions on the team with qualified candidates (conducted interviews, assigned responsibilities, and coordinated DevOps activities) as well as performing the functions of SCRUM master (coordinated daily meetings, planned sprints, managed backlog stories, etc).  • Provided software architecture guidance and developed a comprehensive roadmap for Enterprise Application Domains and actively participated in DevOps activities to build and support the implementation, integration, deployment, and maintenance of Microservices (Workforce, Emergency, Training, Space and Action APIs) that support the BAP framework.  • Architected web applications such as PACES (Proposal and Cost Estimation System) and BAP (Business Application Portal) using .NET MVC Framework, Entity Framework, MS SQL, Web API, Telerik, DevExpress, CSS3, Html5, Bootstrap, jQuery, and KendoUI.  • Migrated PACES to .NET MVC Core 2.0 framework with the use of Entity Framework Core, Web API Microservices, Angular 6, CSS3, HTML5, and Bootstrap for creating proposals and developing cost estimations for bids on contracts.  • Architected the BAP (Business Application Portal) framework that uses the Workforce API (employee hiring, resume management, organization hierarchy, timesheets, leave-of-absences, certifications, salary/pay rate, and benefits along with other HR activities), Emergency API (disaster recovery, employee tracking & notification, impacted areas, severity of events, etc.), Space API (secure zones, hot seats, etc.), Training API (employee required training, certificates obtained, due modules/classes, etc.), Actions API (employee actions executed, tracking of activities, etc.) and Dashboard UI (charts, graphs, grids, layouts, etc.).  • Developed the BAP (Business Application Portal) framework using .NET MVC Framework, Entity Framework, Microservices, MS SQL Server, Telerik, Angular 6, Type Script, HTML5, CSS3 and Bootstrap.  • Defined and architected the requirements for Azure Cloud services and the hosting environment for PACES and BAP applications.  • Outlined the Infrastructure (IaaS), Platform (PaaS) and Software (SaaS) service details of the Azure Cloud environment, allocated the required resources, and successfully deployed (CI/CD) the PACES application to the cloud. Software Architect/Lead Engineer GuestMetrics - Leesburg, VA October 2012 to October 2014 Project: Developed BarMetrics Applications (Web and Business Intelligence).  • Designed/developed Software Infrastructure and Processes for the Bar Metrics Applications (Web and BI).  • Developed Bar Metrics applications that allow suppliers to analyze on-premise restaurant POS data in several dimensions. Some of those dimensions that are used by the suppliers, distributors, and operators are product sales figures in units (retail dollars, quantity, average pricing and market share), package types, key attributes (imports vs domestic, price classes and category types) and sales trends over time (annual, quarterly, monthly and bi-weekly).  • Developed the Bar Metrics main web application using ASP.NET MVC, Web API, Entity Framework, jQuery, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, MS SQL Server, and Redis.  • Collaborated with IT Services and integrated 3rd party systems with the Bar Metrics Application Portal for automatic data update/retrieval, sales analytics, and performance of client's business. Lead Systems Engineer Optigate Technologies - Manassas, VA November 2011 to October 2012 Project: OPOS/JavaPOS Web Server/Application Server Modules for Executing Credit/Debit Card Transactions.  • Managed several small teams of developers (Business Intelligence, .NET/Web Applications, Java/Backend Frameworks, and Mobility).  • Designed the Enterprise Infrastructure for Optigate's Payment Processing System that consists of eCommerce applications, OPOS/JavaPOS transaction processing applications, payment gateway, data warehousing, business intelligence applications, and mobility applications.  • Developed OPOS Web Service/Application to capture the consumer credit/debit card data and route it to Optigate's Payment Processing System based on ISO 8583 protocol. This application is part of the overall Transaction Processing System that routes the payment transactions to Visa, MasterCard, American Express and Discover card banking networks.  • Developed Optigate Payment Gateway that is integrated into the shopping cart for processing payments.  • Implemented Web Account Management application based on MVC and ASP.NET that allows clients to retrieve transactions, check their account status, and create reports for outstanding and settled transactions across the web.  • Introduced nopCommerce shopping cart into the Payment Processing Network to allow clients to purchase goods and services directly from Optigate Technologies eCommerce website.  • Integrated the Blackberry mobile merchant application with Optigate's Payment Processing System to send/receive credit/debit card transaction messages and process the payments.  • Integrated Ingenico, Blue Bamboo, and Nurit POS terminals with Optigate's Payment Processing System for processing credit/debit card transactions. Software Solutions Engineer Magellan Biosciences, Inc - Chantilly, VA May 2008 to September 2011 Project: AGILITY - Automated Elisa Testing Machine used in laboratories to perform Elisa testing automatically.  • Led a small team of .NET developers that designed and implemented the core software system using Agile and Scrum methodologies for the Elisa automated and high throughput testing machine, P24.  • Designed Task Scheduling Module based on Heuristic and Genetic algorithms that allows dynamic schedules to be executed by the Robotic Arm performing the functions of pipetting fluids, incubating plates, mixing fluids in deep wells as well as reading and computing the results of the Elisa test. The Scheduling Module (written in C# and C++) interacts with the system software (consisting of various components) to perform the necessary tasks of Elisa Assay.  • Worked on Assay Editor/Worklist Editor to capture all the possible tasks of an assay and executing the worklist via the P24 System (closed system consisting of Robotic Arms, heated and ambient Incubators, Washers, Readers, Reagent Packs, Mixing Vessels, Dilution Wells, Consumable Tips, etc).  • Developed a Web Application that allows one to login and check the Test Results, Machine Resources, Status, Plates/Assays scheduled for the Elisa Test execution and display the overall performance of the AGILITY Elisa Testing Machine.  • Developed device drivers to drive the robotic arms performing various functions. Senior Software Architect L3 Communications - Chantilly, VA January 2005 to May 2008 Project: Praetorian Video Security System. Praetorian Video Security System is designed to provide surveillance, intrusion detection, and target tracking capabilities over a monitored area.  • Worked on video server (C++) that captures video from the card/driver (4 channels/video-card, 4 video cards/server) and analyzes the contents of the video for moving objects against the background video frame.  • Designed and implemented an ASP.NET application (C#.NET) to serve analyzed video to a Media Player application running in the browser.  • Implemented video analysis engine that detects various types of objects in frames and creates alarms based on the movement of objects in frames (i.e. falling person, wrong way motion, fast person, car motion, object left behind, etc. (ASP.NET, C#.NET).  • Created and updated specification, design, functionality, acceptance test, and user's guide documents for Praetorian Video Security System.  • Developed interface to collect alarms/video clips from stations across the network (Java).  • Created models of surveillance sites using 3D Studio Max, Deep Exploration, and XML (C++).  • Provided software support to control Bosch EnviroDome PTZ cameras for the GSI test/development site (C#.NET). Senior Software Developer Manticom Networks, Inc - Chantilly, VA August 2000 to January 2005 Project: SCORPION 4104 Multi Gigabit Switch. SCORPION 4104 is a distributed Layer-2 Ethernet switch that delivers traffic with complete redundancy in a bi-directional ring mode.  • Designed and implemented a SNMP (v1/v2c/v3) agent using ASN.1 encoding rules for the SCORPION 4104 backbone switch (C).  • Developed an HTTP agent for the SCORPION 4104 backbone switch. This application employs HTTP/HTML protocol to allow a user to configure this device using their web browser.  • Implemented a multi-threaded Monitor program in C to establish communication between multiple cards in a SCORPION 4104 chassis. The Monitor program processes messages between all 12 cards in the chassis to determine card presence and provide management capabilities (C).  • Implemented a Command Line Interface (CLI) that interacts with the Monitor program to manage the SCORPION 4104 backbone switch. The Command Line Interface allows a user to locally configure, control, and monitor the switch.  • Created EEPROM, FLASH, FPGA, and TEMPERATURE SENSING drivers for SCORPION 4104 (C). Mid-Level Software Engineer Enterasys Networks - Rochester, NH August 1995 to August 2000 Project: SecureFast Ethernet Switch. SecureFast carries traffic across the network with Gigabit Ethernet switching capabilities.  • Implemented Routing Information Protocol (RIP) and Spanning Tree (STP) for SSR-6000 router.  • Developed VLAN software for Enterasys' SecureFast switch (C) and created automation tools for testing.  • Created a GUI Application known as DMX that manages SNMP devices and provides graphical view for the supported MIBs. Education BS in Electrical Engineering University of New Hampshire - Durham, NH May 1995 MS in Computer Science in Computer Science Southern New Hampshire University - Manchester, NH Skills .NET (10+ years), C# (10+ years), C (10+ years), SNMP (9 years), Full Stack Development (10+ years), JavaScript (10+ years), Angular 2/4/6 (6 years), SQL, jQuery, Linux, HTML, XML Additional Information Technical Skills    Languages: C#.NET, Java, C, C++, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, TypeScript, UML.    Concepts: UML, OOD, Design Patterns, Domain Driven Design, Mutli-threading, Client/Server applications, Inversion of Control (IoC), Dependency Injection (DI), Data Encryption, Service Oriented Architecture (SOA), DevOps, Microservices, Azure Cloud Services, C /CD, Docker Containers, Virtual Machine, Agile/Scrum Methodology.    Protocols: TCP/IP, UDP, SNMP, CLI, OSPF, RIP, STP, HTTP, HTTPS, SSL, ARP, NAT, SOAP, OPOS, SaaS, PaaS, IaaS.    Technologies: IEEE 802.3, SONET, LAN, WAN, WLAN, VLAN, Device Drivers.    Frameworks: ASP.NET, ASP.NET MVC, jQuery, Bootstrap, Angular 6, NodeJS, Wordpress, Jasmine/Karma, Protractor, Selenium.    Development Tools: MS Visual Studio 2015/2017, MS Visual C++ 6.0, Eclipse IDE, GitLab, Atlassian Jira, Confluence, Bamboo (CI/CD), BitBucket, SourceTree (Git), HipChat, Azure SDK, Azure Service Fabric, Azure Docker Containers, Azure Resource Manager.    Databases: Microsoft SQL Server, MySQL, MongoDB, Redis.    Office Tools: Microsoft Office (Word, Excel, Access, PowerPoint, FrontPage), Visio.    Operating Systems: Android, Linux Ubuntu/Fedora, Windows 7/10, Windows Server 2008/2012/2016.    Software Packages: NUnit, Ninject, Visual Studio MSTest, iBatis, Entity Framework, Dapper, SAX/DOM/JAXB XML parsers, GNU Tools (gdb, netstat, traceroute, tcpdump), Bash Shell.    Web Technologies: ASP.NET, ASP.NET MVC, WCF, Web API, Web Services, RESTful Services/SOAP, AJAX, WPF, LINQ, IIS, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, jQuery, TypeScript, AngularJS, KnockoutJS, Telerik, KendoUI, DevExpress, SSL, Json, XML, XSD, Azure Cloud.