Lead Technical Consultant Lead Technical Consultant Lead Technical Consultant - AbacusNext Carlsbad, CA Work Experience Lead Technical Consultant AbacusNext - San Diego, CA 2018 to Present Led Software Engineers to create custom Visual Studios (2013 and 2017) Web applications to integrate with customer’s databases and Web API using Windows 10, C# 7.0 with .NET 4.5. Provide technical expertise to the customer on the deployment and application related issues.     ?      Developed C# Web application for Ford Motor Company to integrate with their data source. Created a rich and responsive UI with live updates from external Web API. Implemented a robust error handling scheme to handle abnormalities and error exceptions.   ?      Created custom Web API that interfaces with the HotDocs services to auto generate reports without conducting an interview. The Web API accpects a POST request and consumes a JSON answer package and template name as part of the body. The application then generates a report in PDF and saved to a desired location.   ?      DevOps – Created, published and deployed custom Web Applications. Interfaced with customer and resolved defects found. Performed all QA regression testing  ?      SW Configuration Management – Managed quality of the SW using the features in Bitbucket such branching and pull requests.  ?      Full Stack Software Engineer. Developed MVC and Web API applications that interfaces to a SQL database and other date sources  ?      Mentored Technical Consultants (US and aboard)   ?      Collaborated with Product Owners and Managers on resource allocations and delivery schedules  ?      Wrote Technical Design Documents on product deliverables Software Engineer Hologic Incorporated - San Diego, CA 2015 to 2018 Developed and maintained SW on Panther/Fusion diagnostics instrument using Windows 10, C# 7.1 with .NET 4.71. Created tools to validate, test, and process Assays files to ensure reliability on the instrument and other various forms of applications    ? With a multi-threading application on Panther, created software to detect a thread deadlock. Once identified, the application locates thread and reports the deadlock. The information (time, stack trace, and other meta data) is recorded in a file to be used for investigation.  ? Developed an automated testing framework software to test current and new assays for IT and UIT. Devised a strategy to store expected data in an XML, serialized the file into an object to be used to compare with actual processed results. Recorded pass/fail outcomes to file and collect objective evidence (OE). The results were a reduction in the number of lines of code, re-usability, rapid development and time saved to collect OE (from days to seconds).  ? Localization expert: Addressed Panther UI and Assay reporting (RDLC) defects. Worked with external translators to resolve defected and new strings. Managed all localized strings on Panther. Collaborated with other engineers in order to reduce translation cost. The results were a $65,000 reduction from the initial bid.  ? Maintained Quality Control tool to support current and new assay. Created new code by decoupling each assays into new classes. Developed new IT code to test requirements and code. The outcome was backwards compatibility of past assays, high reliability (no SW exceptions), quick development cycle for new assays. Full Stack Software Engineer Visual Studios 2013 to 2017 2013 and 2017) Web applications to integrate with customer's databases and Web API using Windows 10, C# 7.0 with .NET 4.5. Provide technical expertise to the customer on the deployment and application related issues.    ? Developed C# Web application for Ford Motor Company to integrate with their data source. Created a rich and responsive UI with live updates from external Web API. Implemented a robust error handling scheme to handle abnormalities and error exceptions.  ? Created custom Web API that interfaces with the HotDocs services to auto generate reports without conducting an interview. The Web API accpects a POST request and consumes a JSON answer package and template name as part of the body. The application then generates a report in PDF and saved to a desired location.  ? DevOps - Created, published and deployed custom Web Applications. Interfaced with customer and resolved defects found. Performed all QA regression testing  ? SW Configuration Management - Managed quality of the SW using the features in Bitbucket such branching and pull requests.  ? Full Stack Software Engineer. Developed MVC and Web API applications that interfaces to a SQL database and other date sources  ? Mentored Technical Consultants (US and aboard)  ? Collaborated with Product Owners and Managers on resource allocations and delivery schedules  ? Wrote Technical Design Documents on product deliverables Software Developer Mitchell International - San Diego, CA 2013 to 2015 Worked in a Lean Agile SW Development Process, developing Windows API (REST Service) using Microsoft Visual Studios 2012, ASP.NET 4.0, Team Foundation Server (TFS), MVC 4.0, WCF in C#.    ? Created custom Controllers for incoming XML\JSON Serialization data. Using Object Oriented Programming, developed code to handle request from the URL to pass information (GET), create\store new information (POST), and update information (PUT) to and from the database.  ? Wrote Unit Test Code to test code coverage and functionality of all newly developed code. All code is tested daily and often prior to release to Production.  ? Developed Test Automation Code to validate the Windows API data. The code would compare the Business Object information to the actual data in DB. Created Helper Method to compare two Objects using Reflection.  ? Developed code using Best Practices such Design Patterns and SOLID Principles.  ? Created Web UI application in AngularJS Software Engineer CDC - San Diego, CA 2012 to 2013 Developed web base financial software in a fast-paced, Scrum Development Environment using Microsoft Visual Studios ASP.NET in C# and VB.NET. Responsible for designing Graphical User Interfaces (Front End), SQL queries (Back End), and provided technical leadership to the group. Senior Staff Software Engineer L-3 Communications Corporation - Carlsbad, CA 2001 to 2012 Software Lead for Top Secret SIGINT Program. Led team of SW Engineers to develop a System consisting of Microsoft Windows Form Application (C#) and Embedded SW (C/C++) Solution. Completed a SW Development Cycle from Design to Production. Education Bachelor of Arts in Mathematics and Computer Science in Mathematics and Computer Science University of California - San Diego, CA Skills .net, Microsoft visual studio, Visual studio, Api, C#, C/c++, C++, Git, Html, Javascript, Typescript, Json, Oo, Software development, Xml, Sql, Mvc, Css, Devops, Team foundation server, Jira Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/JessieAsuncion Additional Information SKILLS:  • Microsoft Visual Studio 2013-2017 Windows developed in C# 7.1, using .NET 4.71  • Web development in Angular, MVC, Web API and Entity Framework  • Microsoft Visual Team Foundation Server, and Bitbucket/Git using JIRA defect tracking application  • Familiar with the SOLID principles of OO programming and design.  • Microsoft SQL 2016  • TypeScript, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, XML, JSON  • Worked in Agile Methodology software development cycle  • Experienced working with FDA regulations, compliance and process  • Previous held Top Secret (TS) Clearance SCI Access with SSBI  • Working knowledge of DevOps  • Working knowledge of Embedded/Application in C/C++  • NuGet library creation, MS and Inno Installers and Test-Driven Development (TDD)