Senior Developer Senior <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Developer - Client's Entertainment Phoenix, AZ Software Engineer with 10 years of experience in providing end to end technical solution of various Web Applications with focus on Web Services development in Entertainment and Telecom domain..  • Extensive experience in design, build and test scalabl.e and high performing Restful Web services using Scala, PlayFramework and Java ecosystem.    • Ability to translate business requirement into technical solution and leading the implementation lifecycle.    • Frontend Experience in creating various modules and services in Nodejs and Angular2.    • Proficiency in custom web analytics and creating reporting framework for tagging and error reporting.    • Proven ability to lead teams working in geographically distributed locations and proving quality deliverables.    • Experience working in Agile Scrum and Kanban methodologies    • Knowledge of CICD and DevOps for delivering projects quickly with better quality. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Developer Client's Entertainment - El Segundo, CA May 2016 to Present CA  Don't Fight the Web is a next generation platform that will transform Client's Entertainment website into a seamless and integrated cross-platform experience regardless of device and location.    • Senior Developer on project leading the Integration solution using nodejs, angular2.    • Build unit test using Karma and package and deploy apps using Webpack.    • Experience working with Redis for caching and session management.    • Participate in design and development for micro services of large scale engineering teams.    • Experience using expressjs and other node libraries for web services integration.    • Working knowledge of Docker and Kubernates    • Implement nonfunctional requirements along with program architects for performance and code quality.    • Created custom Error Logging framwework to be used by Frontend developers.    • Build a reporting framework for application and video tagging using various providers like Adobe, Comscore, Conviva and NewRelic.    • Part of team running development using Scaled Agile Framework. Lead Developer El Segundo, CA May 2013 to May 2016 DTVE1.5 project is primarily focused on upgrading the Entertainment area of Client website using Responsive Web Design moving away from monolithic design towards modular and microservices architecture. It also includes adding new functional features to the Entertainment site to enhance customer experience.  • Senior Developer on project for backend API development using Scala and Java.    • Build, Test and Deployment of APIs on PlayFramework.    • Created custom wrapper framework for accessing ATG Content for APIs.    • Custom Java library modules using Spring MVC and Maven for accessing SQL Database, middleware and other third party webservices.  • Integrated monitoring using MongoDB and configuration management using Apache Zookeeper.    • Creation of automated unit test cases using Mockito and Specs2 framework.    • Implemented Resillient Service Architecture for services which are needed to be highly available using Akka.    • Worked on API payload and performance optimizations to significantly improve response times and volume.    • Creation of Interface Control Document and Design artifacts for the web services being exposed to Nodejs front end for integration.    • Created services and frontend integration using Nodejs.    • Application monitoring and troubleshooting using Splunk, Appdynamics for production support.    • Develop and support web analytics framework with tagging using Adobe SiteCatalyst.    • Participate in code and design reviews and used Scala best practices for code quality improvements.    • Lead a team of onsite and offshore team members on multiple capabilities, features and enhancements for a successful development, testing and deployment of entire project. Senior Developer Digital Television Entertainment - El Segundo, CA July 2011 to April 2013 CA  For client who is a leading provider in Digital Television Entertainment, Mobile Acquisition project primarily focused on providing a new sales channel on mobile for prospects users who wants to get services and hardware from client.    • Develop a mobile site using SenchaTouch 2.0 framework.    • Creating data layer using JSP and Java for presenation and form inputs.    • Creation of High Level Design and Detailed Level Design based on the business requirements.    • Participated in code and design reviews and used Sencha best practices for code quality improvements.    • Created a custom framework on top on SenchaTouch which can be extended and reused across other modules like Self Care and Entertainment for client  • Coordinated with multiple projects across various track teams for a successful development, testing and deployment of entire project. Senior Software Developer Pune, Maharashtra 2011 to June 2012 India  For British multinational telecommunications company headquartered in London, project objective is to create feature reusable, technology standardized, and strategically redesigned portal for better online customer experience. PICASSO consists of 3 major components viz. Portal, Content Management System (CMS) and Identity and Access Management (IDM) which are integrated with each other to provide the overall PICASSO solution    • Portal Track Lead, Environment Setup Anchor, Defect Fixing Anchor for the project.    • Portal development on Oracle Weblogic Portal and multiple web services creation using Java.    • Completely owned the Portal track and responsible for creating System Appreciation Document based on the transition activities.    • Participated in Environment Setup process and also lead the defect fixing for various modules.    • Coordinated with multiple projects across various track teams for a successful transition of entire project Software Developer Enterprise Communications company - Santa Clara, CA November 2008 to December 2010 the project objective included integration of various applications running under different platforms, architecture and environments using SOA architecture. It also included creating of portal for Support site.    • Created different middleware services using ALSB and ALDSP.  • Design and Development of Web Services following Service Oriented Architecture to provide message transformation and retrieve information from disparate data sources.  • Coordinated with multiple applications for configurations and providing transformation services for the customer experience portal.  • Integration Testing and Support for various stages for delivery for the project. Software Engineer Pune, Maharashtra October 2007 to November 2008 India  • Enhancements using java and jsp for one of the clients.  • Web services development to access master data for catalog service  • Develop portal framework pages related to login and security. Education Bachelor of Engineering in Computer Engineering in Computer Engineering Dharamsinh Desai University - Gujarat, IN Skills Java. (7 years), Maven (3 years), MongoDB (3 years), Oracle (1 year), Scala (3 years) Additional Information SKILLS    Java, J2EE, Scala, PlayFramework, Javascript, Typescript, Nodejs, Angular2, Oracle Weblogic Portal, Web Analytics, MongoDB, Spring, Maven, Git