System Engineer System Engineer System Engineer - American National Insurance Dickinson, TX Confident, innovative individual with years of experience in software engineering. The ability to design, develop and manage applications. Experienced object oriented programming and debugging in the languages of ASP.NET, C#, JAVA, and C++ using Visual Studio and/or Eclipse. Also have experience with Microsoft SQL Server, Angular JavaScript, VB script, and other scripting languages. Outstanding record of success in identifying opportunities, detailed designs, developing strategies, and implementing actions to boost business performance. Strong analytical and communications skills and demonstrated skills in customer service and retention. Highly adaptable, with the ability to respond rapidly to problems, implement effective solutions, and quickly integrate proven technologies. A proven leader and team-builder with a strong bottom line orientation and good decision making. Leading others to create software to have reliability, performance, and standardization. Providing full product life cycle via Dev/Op Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience System Engineer American National Insurance - League City, TX 2019 to Present • Developing and Maintaining the Global Enterprise Microsoft System Center platform used for management of Incidents, Problems, Changes and Services Requests  • Programming languages of C#, PowerShell, SQL and JSON/JavaScript  • Troubleshooting and debugging Service Desk SCSM/SCCM  • Create workflows to improve process efficiency; guide business teams on best practices.  • Create large SQL queries for company wide reporting  • Configuring incident, problem, activity, change, and release management  • Demonstrate solutions by developing documentation, flowcharts, layouts, diagrams and charts. Full Stack Software Developer Port of Houston - Houston, TX 2014 to 2019 front and back end)  • Programming languages of C#, ASP.NET, SQL and Java  • Created multiple custom enterprise applications and websites to replace outdated aging software (like MS Access, MS Excel, or other third party applications)  • Leads a team of contractors when large projects are requested  • Designed SQL Databases, stored procedures, users and anything need for projects  • Successfully made routine tasks automatic or complex tasks more efficient by creating new custom enterprise applications  • Worked with each department to find ways to reduce the time users need to do a task with custom or third-party / vendor software  • Customizing third party / vendor software to work for the users  • Supported and setup own web server, setting up IIS, application pools, permissions, and deployment methods IT System Administrator NASA, Lockheed Martin - Houston, TX 2010 to 2014 • Managing Microsoft Windows Server, VMWare, and Microsoft Windows  • Offering 24x7 phone support to resolve issues with the NASA Mission Control PCs, server web pages, client tools, and active directory permissions  • Provided technical training to system administration server team  • Blended software engineering principles with Infrastructure design to implement automation for NASA Mission Control  • Deployed 378 NASA client PCs after Mission Control refreshed their equipment (during operations).  • Created tools to increase productivity with Microsoft Active Directory functions/tools. Software Developer NASA, United Space Alliance - Houston, TX 2004 to 2010 • Programming languages of C#, ASP.NET, SQL, Java, C++  • Created and designed an ASP.NET website (ECLSSWebTracker) that provided the a flight control discipline with a secure and controlled method of accessing, storing, and updating space station Consumables and Hardware by tracking data stored in a SQL database via a web interface.  • Created and designed an ASP.NET website (Library for ISP, SODF, and Applications) from a database that relates individual parameters to various applications, data files, procedures, and telemetry formats. The website provided graphical user interfaces and enable data sharing between files and various file types, eliminating manual cut and paste of this data by flight controllers and speeding up the process by automating it and eliminating the need for human verification of many long format numbers.  • Rewrote, upgraded and implemented new features, in Java, an application that simulates data or predicts orbits for NASA orbiters (International Space Station and the shuttle). It takes vector readings, azimuth, velocity, Keplerian elements and other orbital flight mechanic data to predict the flight path for the orbiters. This utility will be used when NASA goes to Mars or returns to the moon.  • Rewrote, upgraded and implemented new features, in Java to the current satellite sighting software available through NASA's Office of Public Affairs. This public website offers users the ability to track over 300 satellites (including the shuttle, Hubble Space Telescope, and International Space Station) to view in the sky with the naked eye. Can be found at: http://spaceflight.nasa.gov/realdata/sightings/SSapplications/Post/JavaSSOP/JavaSSOP.html    Prior work experience available upon request Linkedin: https://www.linkedin.com/in/claude-jenkins-b9065627 Education B.S. in Computer Science Texas Southern University - Houston, TX