Senior Developer Consultant Senior <span class="hl">Developer</span> Consultant Senior Developer Consultant Work Experience Senior Developer Consultant S & B Engineering May 2019 to August 2019 • Worked on the completion of phase two of a project that is implemented with C#, WPF, with .Net 4.7  • Implemented a templated user control with two custom search text and list boxes.  • Implemented a REST API service using JSON based data transfer and endpoints. Senior Developer Consultant Howco May 2018 to January 2019 • C# and VB.Net are the targeted languages with WinForms as the user interface  • Employ Versions 4.0, and 4.6.1 of the .net frameworks.  • HRS was implemented using WinForms with Dapper, Entity Framework and Lightspeed to create the UI-backend database support (SQL).  • Support and new feature development for two applications called HRS (Human Resource Management and QNG (management of company metals product).  • DevExpress was used as the primary design framework with additional tool support utilizing Mindscape Lightspeed, Dapper, and Entity Framework.  • Report tool used to generate Excel and CSV file types Tech Lead - WPF-Engsps InfoSys, Ltd - Austin, TX May 2017 to April 2018 • Working on a project that is highly customized with C#, WPF, Win32, UWP and other technologies such as .net 4.5  • My role as the WPF technology lead is to be one of the primary UI developers and also serve as a technical liaison for an offshore group of testers.  • Project was situated at Dell Corporation in Austin Texas and targeted what was called their Rugged Line of laptops that were designed to be used in field work for such environments as oilfield, military, police, and firefighting.  • The intent of the project was to take Dell low level functions such as camera operations, user preference settings, and emergency contingency functions to a higher more user friendly interface. All work was done in .Net 4.0-4.5. Software Engineer Industrial Networks August 2016 to April 2017 • C# and VB.Net are the targeted languages with WPF and UWP as the user interface  • Multithreading command pattern was used extensively in conjunction with the MVVM pattern  • XAML, XML, Windows CE, .NET Compact  • Primary technology is Radio-Frequency Identification (RFID) and similar Barcode functionality  • Work targeted hardware types are mobile devices such as handheld and tablet platforms  • Visual Studio 2010, and 2015 are used in the course of development.  • Employ Versions 4.0, and 4.6.1 of the .net frameworks.  • Employ T-SQL Server Versions 2014 Software Developer Enerflex Inc July 2014 to March 2016 • C# is the targeted language with WPF and WinForms as the user interface  • Multithreading techniques were used to offload IO operations to facilitate better UI responsiveness  • XAML, XML  • .NET framework with C# algorithmic library comprised the architectural foundation  • Ported C++, and Access database to C#, WPF, and T-SQL Azure database  • Visual Studio 2010, 2012, 2014, and 2015 were used in the course of development.  • Employed Versions 4.0, 4.5, and 4.5.1 of the .net frameworks.  • Employed T-SQL Server Versions 2012, 2014, and 2016, and T-SQL Azure.  • Deployed SQL Server databases to Azure Cloud based resources which required identity management configurations and proper management of database secure access.  • 3rd party libraries employed were Xceed WPF toolkit and PDFTron.  • Utilized the support features for WinForms and WPF to manage data materialization on the UI.  • Managed the display of help files, windows, and pages supporting fixed and flow document form layouts with AvalonDock features.  • Created a unique suite of functions and UI properties to automate P&ID generation  • Used The Xceed WPF toolkit to facilitate an interactive and intuitive interface.  • Used custom IType editors on properties supported by the Xceed property grid to enable very flexible and fluid property responses to user inputs.  • Integrated T-SQL Azure to allow enterprise level management of data  • Ported an in-house library of mathematical algorithms from C++ and VBA to C#.  • Enhanced the in-house algorithms with new mathematical functions such as a system balance pressure calculator.  • Used Ariel and HySys Automation libraries for data transformation.  • Researched converting front end technology from WPF desktop to WPF Web to include ASP.NET, MVVM with JavaScript type libraries with REST services Primary Developer GeoControl Systems July 2013 to May 2014 • Supported and enhanced web application conducting human health research for primarily human spaceflight.  • Implemented requirements for a public web site.  • Support and enhanced T-SQL Server 2012 database.  • Utilized ASP.NET, HTML5, XML, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, ASMX SOAP Web Services, C#, T-SQL Server 2005/2008, .NET, ASP.NET, and Visual Studio 2012  • Managed hosting on secure Windows Server 2003 platforms employing IIS 6.0 and all tiers of security and permission protocols as well as integrated SharePoint features. Software Engineer Contractor Realtime Oilfield Technology April 2013 to June 2013 • Utilized WinForms, WPF, VISUAL Studio 2010, C#, .net, XAML, T-SQL Server 2008 to develop a prototype charting system for all types of oil field real time and logged well data telemetry in the form of WITSML.  • XAML, XML, WITSML Software Engineer Contractor Weatherford International March 2012 to April 2013 • C#, WinForms/WPF, and .NET comprised the architectural framework  • XAML, XML  • Contributed to Weatherford's Geoscience Research and Development organization tasked to develop a well planning tool. Focus is on analysis of formation and trajectory survey points to optimize tool choice, directional, and overall efficiency for drilling operations.  • Data transformation processes from WITSML input.  • Provided software engineer development, test plan implementation, and generated documentation.  • Participated in development environment consisting of a multi-tier MVVM framework that uses Entity Framework, WPF, XAML, and T-SQL Server.  • Utilized Visual Studio 2010 as the primary development interface while employing a number of add-in libraries such as Infragistics, Expression Blend, log4net, and Tonga  • Ported Oracle 10g database data and functions to T-SQL Server stored procedures. Software Engineer Contractor Sensor Design Group December 2010 to August 2011 • Performed software maintenance/new development of a real time high data throughput pipe testing in-house application called DigiPro  • Used Visual Studio 2008, T-SQL Server 2008 and C#, XML.  • Utilized WinForms/WPF for UI development.  • Employed 3rd party controls libraries ComponentOne and National Instruments with WinForms functionality to create graphs and charts to display high data flow generated by electromagnetically driven digital sensors for flaw detection testing algorithms.  • Conducted research with several tools to enable message passing within the applications distributed system architecture. MSMQ was examined and appeared to be the best mechanism available given the potential costs of implementation. Software Engineer / Systems Analyst United Space Alliance January 2001 to October 2010 • Last year work was performed on translating an Access database to SQL. WPF was used to implement GUI.  • Processed diagnostic information from the International Space Station multiplexer /de-multiplexer hardware configuration.  • Performed development and peripheral testing for Caution & Warning Summary functions which track anomalous shuttle or station behaviors.  • Developed / tested software in the Software for Orbital Consumables in Real time for Atmospheric, Thermal, and Electrical Systems area using C.  • Supported two major GUI applications and the DLL's for the system, Mechanical Systems, Electrical and Power Systems Analysis, and Command & Data Handler Systems.  • Ported C based applications from DEC Alpha systems to HP Linux.  • Performed software development of GUI applications using C for the Space Shuttle GPCs (General Purpose Computers).  • Designed / developed multiple Visual Studio 2008 / T-SQL Server 2005 applications using C#.  • Added functionality to the server processes using Xt, Motif developer interface and C language in the Command and Data Handler Systems area Software Programmer/Ground Control Officer Cimarron Software June 1999 to January 2001 • Supported Mission Evaluation Room software using C client/server design principles.  • Performed system administrator duties in support of missions.  • Worked as a Ground Control Officer for Space Shuttle and Space Station missions. Analyst Lockheed Martin June 1997 to June 1999 • Software development using the JOVIAL object-oriented embedded language for the F-16 Fighting Falcon.  • Developed cockpit displays for the crafts' Multi-Function Display Units.  • Primary area of expertise was symbology (e.g. radar/infrared acquired objects). Research Assistant Texas Tech University - Tech, Texas, US January 1994 to June 1997 • Developed Access Database programs while designing and implementing peer-to-peer workstations for the Texas Tech University Intramural Sports System.  • Provided GUI software using Visual Basic for Army sponsored experimental psychology project testing man/machine interfaces in combat situations.  • As a student worked as a software developer for IBM doing multi-protocol networking software in the C language. Education Master of Science in Computer Science in software engineering & process Texas Tech University - Lubbock, TX May 2001 Bachelor of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science Eastern New Mexico University - Portales, NM December 1993 Skills Microsoft access, Sql server, Sql, .net, Visual studio, C#, C++, Client/server, Design patterns, Fortran, Json, Winforms, Object-oriented, Scripting, Tcl, Vaps, Vba, Visual basic, Visual basic for applications, Xml Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Programming Languages: C#, T-SQL, XML, C, Fortran, Visual Basic, Visual Basic for Applications.  Primary Programming Technologies: .Net WinForms, WPF, Embedded real-time, COM, Client/Server.  Databases: T-SQL Server 8, 10, 12, 14, 16, and Azure, Microsoft Access  IDEs: Visual Studio.NET, VAPS Object-Oriented C++ Avionics, QT/TCL, gVim, Visual Studio Online, Visual Studio 17.0, Visual Studio 15.0, Visual Studio 13.0, Visual Studio 12.0, Visual Studio 10.0, Visual Studio 8.0  APIs: Most components of .NET  Design: Object-Oriented Development. Real-time systems.  Web Technologies: JSON, XML, XAML, WebServices (limited experience 1-2 years)  Operating Systems: VxWorks, Windows, Linux, Unix  Design Patterns and Tools: MVVM, Inversion of Control, Entity Framework, and most of the common patterns  Development methodologies: Agile, Waterfall  Report tools: Crystal Reports, Microsoft Report, DevExpress  Scripting tools: XML, Bash, Tcl, VBA, Files, AWK, NAWK, Command.COM