Sr. Application Developer Sr. Application <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Application Developer - Bank of America New York, NY Software professional offering 10+ years of experience in the field of Application and Software development. I bring together the capability in financial system analysis with strong information engineering and programming skills to deliver critical global compliance solutions.    PROFESSIONAL PROFILE:    ? Experience in Object Oriented Programming concepts in Python, C++  ? Experience in parsing XML documents and load the data in database and developed web based applications using Python, CSS and HTML.  ? Worked on applications and developed them with XML, JSON (Django and Python).  ? Wrote and executed various SQL database queries from python and have good knowledge about Django ORM.  ? Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  ? Worked with JSON based REST Web services.  ? Experience on PyMQI, Pandas, NumPy  ? Experience in various version repository such as SVN, Clearcase, GIT.  ? Experience with Design, Develop, Debug Operations, Reporting, Data Analysis and Web applications utilizing Python and C++  ? Good Understanding of IBM MQs  ? Experience in coding Design Patterns using C++, Boost and Multi-Threading  ? Good hands on Data Structures, POSIX Threads  ? Well versed in Socket programming using TCP and UDP  ? Experience in IPC mechanisms such as Message Queues, Shared Memory, Semaphores, Mutex  ? Good knowledge in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), Agile (SCRUM) and Waterfall Methodologies. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Application Developer Bank of America - New York, NY April 2017 to Present Project includes running daily risk in Quartz framework for Credit products. It uses Bob and sponge bobs to schedule jobs for each regional close the run on hugs to calculate different risk measures. Then the data is loaded to RDB(SQL) by RDB feed jobs which uses quartz QZtables to build the data and then the data is made available for downstream.    Responsibilities:  ? Python code/scripts to configure different Risk measures.  ? Python code to aggregate the results to quartz framework.  ? Trouble shooting the missing trades/daily issues.  ? Loading data to SQL server.  ? Performance improvement while loading data to RDB  ? Enhancement of GUI using python  ? Writing Mock unit test cases  ? Worked on AMPS server to publish the job status.    Environment: Python 2.7, Quartz desktop, MS SQL Server 2014, SVN Sr. Application Developer HSBC - New York, NY February 2015 to April 2017 Project includes integration of Trade Reporting tool with the organization wide infrastructure Data Service Layer (DSL) to receive the mortgage bond trades from Bloomberg terminal. This reporting tool is developed from regulatory stand point to audit the reason for trades, and generate counterparty reports to understand the exposure.    Responsibilities:  ? Intergrated PyMQI library to consume trades from topic for America Entity using IBM MQs publish and subscribe method  ? XML validation and parsing using python ElementTree XML API  ? Analyzing the FIXML trade data using python Pandas dataframe  ? Storing the FIXML trade data to SQL server using pandas  ? Querying and Retrieving data from SQL server.  ? Implementing caching solution to store and refresh trade filter criteria using Beaker library  ? Used Python Pandas and Numpy to generate counter party reports  ? Worked on Data Streaming Concepts which included File Handling, Generators and Iterators.  ? Maintained the versions using GIT and sending the release notes for each release.  ? Write pyUnit test cases for unit testing    Environment: Python 3.4, PyMQI 1.5, PyUnit, MS SQL Server 2014, XML, PyCharm IDE, GIT Application Developer Credit Suisse - New York, NY March 2012 to January 2015 CLH, Client Hierarchy continues to evolve as a central repository for Client relationship/legal information. It provides an UI to manage the client/fund/account/contact relationship. CLH is a view of a legal entity ownership structure which includes an ultimate parent entity and subsidiary entities. These nested relationships are applied to risk scoring of entities, credit exposure, and researching beneficial ownership structures.    Responsibilities:  ? Develop web services using Python Django Framework  ? Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to created user-friendly website interface  ? Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS and JSON. Also used Bootstrap as a mechanism to manage and organize the html page layout.  ? Used MVT (Model View Template) to intercept the user requests.  ? Data management using sqlite3  ? Created and worked on REST API  ? Performed testing using Django's Test Module Senior Software Engineer L&T InfoTech Ltd - Edison, NJ June 2010 to February 2012 Project includes development of HR applications to process termination payouts and compensations to employees using Django framework    Responsibilities:  ? Designed Variable termination Compensation Pay System for client employees using Python  ? Interacting with HR business customers to understand and document their business processes and requirements.  ? Design and develop custom HR applications to process attendance data for the purpose of termination payouts and compensations to employees  ? Worked on Django API's for accessing the database.  ? Worked on building out, page views, templates, and CSS layouts for the complete site within the Django framework.  ? Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website.  ? Developed Django REST API to expose the employee data and enable real time integration with source systems.  ? Rewrite the existing C++ application in Python module to deliver certain format of data  ? Test driven development with PyUnit framework Senior Software Engineer L&T InfoTech Ltd August 2008 to June 2010 Worked on various telecom projects which involves development of L3 stack for Nortel, Samsung and Qualcomm teams. Worked on LTE/WIMAX/LTE Small cell/OAM projects. Project involved coding in C, C++ for protocol stack development based on 3GPP specifications and writing test scripts using Python. Worked extensively on RoHC Protocol development. Developed Multi thread applications. Debug priority issues from FST and real field issues using valgrind and gdb.    Responsibilities:  ? Implementation of 3GPP, RoHC specifications using C, C++  ? Worked on Multi-threaded Applications  ? Worked on IPC mechanisms which includes TCP, UDP socket programming, Message Queues, Shared memory, Semaphores and Mutexes  ? Strong hands on Debugging using Valgrind and GDB  ? Good knowledge on LINUX based Applications  ? Managed coded using repositories like clearcase, perforce, GIT, SVN  ? Coding for process synchronization.  ? Wrote CI and Test scripts using perl and Python    Environment: Linux, Vi Editor, Source Insight, POSIX APIS, 3GPP, QXDM tools, JIRA Education Bachelor's Skills Django (6 years), GIT (5 years), MS SQL Server (3 years), Python (10+ years), REST (4 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Programming: Python 2.7, C++, C, SQL  Frameworks: Django, REST Frameworks  Relational Database: Microsoft SQL Server 2008/2012/2014, MySQL, SQLite3  Others: JSON, XML, IPC Programming, POSIX Threads  Operating System: Windows, Linux, Mac OS  Version control: GIT, JIRA, Perforce, SVN, Clearcase