Senior Software Developer Senior <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Software Developer - Favor TechConsulting, LLC Frisco, TX Work Experience Senior Software Developer Favor TechConsulting, LLC October 2017 to Present FTC provides a wide range of management consulting and IT services to The United States Federal Government.    Architect, develop, and support solution for Department of Veterans Affairs to ingest X12 claims files for Veterans Health Administration Office of Community Care in Denver, Colorado and insert data into Oracle E-REPOS tables using InterSystems HealthShare Health Connect integration engine.    Architect and develop first phase of HealthShare production to process X12 278 Health Care Services Review requests and generate responses utilizing TCP connections paired with testing tools to send and receive files to and from TCP components.    Provide leadership and guidance to junior technical staff.    Review User Stories, collaborate with MUMPS development teams, perform Peer Reviews, and provide documentation for CCSE Project at the HAC. Senior Software Developer Sonic Healthcare USA - Richardson, TX May 2015 to August 2017 Sonic Healthcare is a global healthcare company providing laboratory medicine/pathology, radiology diagnostic imaging and primary care medical services.    Bring about improved satisfaction of internal Apollo LIS clients through quick advancement of tasks.  Develop Instrument Interfaces in Caché Object Script using ASTM protocol, formatted files, XML Classes.  Port Instrument Interfaces developed in USA into Apollo International Version.  Help implementations team install and configure Instrument Interfaces.  Encode HL7 messages with Requesting Physician data that was updated in Apollo LIS.  Decode HL7 messages and store Patient Locations and Enterers Location.  Map Enterers Location data into existing Electronic Orders table.  Map Worksheet Tests data into new SQL table with relationship to updated Worksheet Format table using Caché Classes.  Resolve Support Tickets involving Micro GUI Registration errors and share documentation for users and support team. Software Developer Forerun, Inc - Irving, TX March 2013 to May 2015 Forerun is a provider of medical charting software for the ED.    Quickly become integral part of the Forerun Development and Delivery Teams supporting colleagues across the company in solving problems and accomplishing many a projects.  Always willing to take on challenges.  Bring about improved team wide communication and coordination.  Configure Computerized Physician Order Entry Status message download utilizing triggers.  Create new physician documentation template for Urgent care centers with enhanced prefill usage.  Develop, troubleshoot and maintain interfaces using InterSystems Ensemble.  Enhance Discharge screen by allowing personal templates to be saved. (HTML, CSS, JavaScript)  Eliminate missing charts through implementing alert upon chart download file creation problem, monitoring transmissions, resending charts and emailing daily report.  Store and retrieve scanned images and other file uploads in InterSystems Caché database as streams. Senior Programmer/Analyst Laboratory Corporation of America - Richardson, TX August 2001 to February 2013 Laboratory Corporation of America operates one of the largest clinical laboratory networks in the world.    Designed, coded, tested, implemented, maintained and supported a Menu System using Caché Objects and Caché Server Pages utilizing Caché Object Script, JavaScript and HTML.  Customized Problem Tracking and Attendance software developed by InterSystems using Caché Objects and Caché Server Pages for keeping track of issues, updating tasks and emailing notifications.  Developed a Visual Basic tool utilizing Object Oriented Programming that allows users to perform file maintenance updating data stored in Caché globals.  Wrote code in M/Caché to create and maintain formatted reports for Antrim users.  Wrote PGP encryption and decryption scripts, updated PGP key ring, scheduled tasks so that files got automatically encrypted and decrypted. Provided documentation.  Created complex SQL queries to display claims submissions and reports.  Maintained day to day support for Cloverleaf interface engines deployed in AIX and Windows.  Developed a function to process client email and trigger restart of client interface.  Monitored memory usage of Scooter application which feeds data into EDI website Active Server Pages. When a certain threshold is reached, support person needs to type commands into three distinct command windows to restart Scooter and reclaim memory. Was able to automate this and eliminate need for manual monitoring and intervention.  Supported Labworks department through developing enhancements for Visual Basic tool to streamline creation and distribution of Directory of Services files combining data from various lab and financial applications (Cerner, Antrim, etc.) Senior Programmer/Analyst Italian Galleria - Buena Park, CA August 1992 to August 2001 Italian Galleria is a niche market Italian Arts and Giftware Importer and Retailer.    Develop enhanced inventory control system using Visual Basic and Microsoft Access to accommodate business growth with user requirements and scalability as a guiding principle.  Develop Point of Sale software to enable business intelligence in the area of customer buying information, sales activity by sales representative, as well as real time inventory control.  Implement barcode label printing and universal inventory scanning for all merchandizing. Computer Programmer Compusource - Los Angeles, CA February 1991 to August 1992 Compusource is a supplier of hardware and software for Manufacturing, Moving & Storage and Service industries.  Develop custom inventory reports to customer's specification.  Solve various problems for customers on Hot Line. Programmer/Analyst Crystal Factory - Buena Park, CA August 1988 to February 1991 Crystal Factory is importer of fine crystal, glass and ceramics with six retail outlets.  Analyze requirements for tracking inventory from order entry to sale, negotiate with vendors, design databases and finalize customized software. Computer Programmer CDX GmbH July 1987 to July 1988 Germany  CDX is a computer service company.  Responsible for customizing software and training end users.  Travel internationally to perform translations on an international version of software.