Lead Software Engineer Lead <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Lead Software Engineer - Defense Information Systems Agency Oxon Hill, MD Mr. Fletcher is a seasoned Software Engineer with over twelve years of architectural, programming, development, and trouble-shooting experience with Java, J2EE, Servlets, JSP, REST, SQL, Tomcat, Enterprise Service Bus (ESB) and the Spring platform stack. His background includes Web Services Development within Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) Systems, with AGILE Methodology throughout development process, Extreme Programming, and usage of Test Drive Development (TDD). Mr. Fletcher has excellent communication skills, along with proven ability to lead effectively within a fast paced, team-oriented environment.  SECURITY CLEARANCE    Clearance Type: Top Secret Date Granted: March 6, 2009  Investigation Type: SSBI Date Completed: December 2, 2008 Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Lead Software Engineer Defense Information Systems Agency December 2013 to Present Mr. Fletcher is lead primary Point of Contact (POC) and Subject Matter Expert (SME) with the Government representatives and Mission Partners, supporting the Defense Information System Agency (DISA) Defense Information System Network (DISN) Operations Support System (OSS) Common Communication Vehicle CCV. He is responsible integrating several high-profile projects into the DISN OSS including Storefront and Network Configuration and Change Management - Replacement (NCCM-R), GTMS Trouble Tickets.    His responsibilities include the following:    • Design a solution to replace a DISN OSS vendor non-supported ESB product. (Progress Sonic ESB version 7.6)  ? Implement a location neutral, resilient containerized solution. (Docker on Red Hat Enterprise Linux RHEL servers)  ? Design and implement cyber-security controls.  ? Modernize service interface, replacing SOAP interfaces with REST.  ? Design and implement service auditing, health status, and usage metrics.  ? Design and implement service level Java Virtual Machine (JVM) clustering.  ? Design and implement a user registration web site.  ? Provide design, implementation, and functional documentation.  • Configuration Management  • Sustainment and Maintenance support  • Requirements Gathering  • Program Trouble Shooting  • Implementation Plan development  • Oversees the day-to-day technical tasking related to each project  • Schedules and Milestones  • Status Reporting  • Subject Matter Expert    Environment:  < GENE> add java technologies used Software Engineer Project Lead Technica Corporation August 2008 to December 2013 Mr. Fletcher is the Project Lead for the Data Mediator Project. He has been responsible for managing the project by creating the Project Charter, WBS, and weekly status reports. Howard has also been responsible for developing the front-end and runtime of the Data Mediator Product, which includes presentations to management and flexibility.    His responsibilities include the following:    • Configuration Management document review  • Requirements Matrix including tasks and deliverables  • Requirements change request  • Program and Project Planning Process  • Project Charter development  • Oversees the day-to-day technical tasking related to each project  • Schedules and Milestones  • Status Reporting  • Audit Reviews  • Subject Matter Expert    Environment:  < GENE> add java technologies Software Engineer May 2008 to August 2008 Mr. Fletcher has provided Technica and its customers with a variety of software engineering services including design, testing and validation support. Mr. Fletcher supported a Sonic SOA based software implementation at the Defense Information Systems Agency (DISA). He also supported the design and implementation of Data Mediator Map NG.    Environment:  < GENE> add java technologies Sr. Application Developer IBM January 2004 to June 2007 Mr. Fletcher provided the IBM Printer Systems division with a variety of software and database development services. He was responsible for designing, and building an application that duplicated hundreds of thousands of IBM customer records supporting the buyout of IBM's printer business. Mr. Fletcher also designed and created an application used by service technicians to match customer inventory records with customer contracts and proposals to help prevent per call invoicing.  His responsibilities included the following:  • Interacting with Business Process Owner, gathering project requirements  • Perform domain analysis using feature lists and use case diagrams  • Design Java interfaces for reading from, and entering data into legacy host applications  • Design Lotus Notes workflow forms  • Design DB/2 database schemas  • Create DB/2 database tables, stored procedures, triggers, constraints, primary and foreign keys  • Design Web forms  • Create test procedures  • Design the application authentication and authorization process  • Implement database persistence using EJB CMP entity beans and stateless session beans  • Implement Java testing using junit  • Implement Java logging using log4j  • Implement authentication process using LDAP  • Participate in code reviews  • Participate in user acceptance testing  • Implement a Web Service for data entry and process monitoring  • Create deployment files using for Websphere Application Server  • Deliver the application on time and within budget  Environment:  AS/400, DB/2, Lotus Domino Server, Lotus Notes, WebShpere Application Server, Java EJB, Java Servlet, JDBC, Communication Manager, XHTML, Ajax, XML, CSS, InetSoft Style Reports, Tomcat 5.0 Application Developer January 1998 to December 2003 Mr. Fletcher provided the IBM System Support division with a variety software development services including design, testing and installation support. Mr. Fletcher was responsible for creating a number of workflow automation applications, which over time allowed IBM System Support to reduce its administrative workforce by more than 50 percent. These applications automated data entry into business process mnemonics.  His responsibilities included the following:  • Interact with Business Process owners, gathering project requirements  • Interact with Business Process team members, gathering feature lists for business processes  • Interact with Data Application owners, applying proper access authorization  • Perform data analysis  • Design Lotus Notes workflow forms  • Design Java interfaces  • Implement email Web service  • Implement application server security  • Design DB/2 database schemas  • Create DB/2 tables, stored procedures, triggers, constraints, primary and foreign keys  • Create SQL queries  • Create test procedures  • Create audit process  • Install and configure application servers  • Install and configure database application  • Install and configure TCP/IP  • Install and configure workstations  • Network workstations  • Install and configure network firewall  • Install and configure routers  • Create user documentation  • Participate in code reviews  • Participate in user acceptance testing  • Train team members and support organizations  Environment:  AS/400, OS/400, HTTP, Java, DB/2, OS/2, TCP/IP, Lotus Domino server, Lotus Notes, Windows 2000, Cisco router, Communication Manager, Tomcat, WebSphere Application server, Java Servlet, JDBC Education Business Administration Morgan State University 1983 Skills JAVA, SOFTWARE ENGINEERING, MYSQL, PHP, Git, Javascript