Facilities Technician Facilities Technician Bowie, MD I am a U.S.Navy veteran with extensive experience in nuclear and conventional power plant operations and maintenance. In addition, I have data center operations, maintenance, and design experience in the disciplines of Electrical Engineering, Mechanical Engineering and Information Technology. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Facilities Technician Private - Bowie, MD November 2018 to Present • Responsible for the operation and maintenance of all mechanical and electrical equipment in the facility.  • Responsible for managing outside contractors, performing repairs that cannot be performed by in-house personnel. SOFTWARE DEVELOPER Self - Boston, MA May 2017 to November 2018 BOWIE, MD  • Working as an independent contractor on several software development projects ranging from web applications, using classic Visual Studio 6.0 and ASP, to data-driven desktop appications created with Visual Studio 2002-2017 (C++/CLI, C# and VB.Net,) and PHP with MySQL.  • Experience developing applications with WCF, WPF, and WF. CLOUD SOFTWARE DEVELOPER Boston, MA July 2016 to May 2017 • Responsible for developing applications that aid in the administration of the hypervisor and the physical infrastructure that provides compute, RAM, and storage to the hypervisor.  • Assisted in the development of software tools that aided in the automation of other vital tasks. CHIEF ENGINEER Boston, MA January 2013 to July 2016 • Responsible for managing the Operating Engineer staff, including hiring, training, employee administration, and ensuring they have the necessary tools and equipment to perform their duties.  • Managed the maintenance, repair, and construction activity related to the MEP critical infrastructure, data center spaces, and all critical systems.  • Provide a high level of technical expertise, leadership, and communication skills.  • Ensure the ability of the Operating Engineers to react to critical system failures and other events requiring competent and timely emergency response.  • Work with Company and Client Management as needed to ensure customer satisfaction related to system reliability and Operating Engineer-provided services.  • Must be available and able to respond to emergencies 24x7x52 in a reasonable timeframe.  • Demonstrate effective written and communication skills.  • Manage the Computerized Maintenance Management System; staff- and vendor-training programs; and the processes, policies, and procedures utilized by the operating engineers.  • Satisfactorily pass the EPA Section 608 (Universal) Technician Certification. FREELANCE SOFTWARE DEVELOPER FULL-TIME STUDENT April 2011 to January 2013 Electrical Engineering  • Worked as an independent contractor on several software development projects for a number of clients, while attending college. AREA ENGINEERING MANAGER Jones Lang Lasalle - San Diego, CA November 2009 to April 2011 • Managed five (5) Tier 4 data centers located in California and Arizona  • Designed and built a computer network that replaced a legacy client network. In addition, the new network provided support for a planned SCADA (Supervisory Controls and Data Acquisition) project that will allow for remote monitoring of all critical systems, providing the client an unprecedented amount of real-time data with which to make critical decisions regarding its lines of business.  • Provided extended, on-site assistance with the management and operation of a Tier 4 data center that was severely understaffed and overburdened with a very large construction project.  • Worked closely with the Director of Engineering, the client's engineering management team, and the sites' engineering teams, led by its respective Chief Engineer, to ensure 100% uptime, by working to prevent incidents. In the unlikely event an incident occurred, actions were taken which minimized its effects.  • Directed the Chief Engineers on technical matters in accordance with engineering principles and guidelines set forth by the Director of Engineering and the client's Engineering Management.  • Assisted the Director of Engineering with creating and implementing policies and procedures that, when properly executed, eliminate unnecessary risk to our client's Major Operating Centers (MOCs) that I was tasked to manage.  • Participated in all regional meetings and Operational Reviews.  • Worked with the Director of Engineering and the sites' Chief Engineers to obviate preventable client-impact incidents in the Western Region.  • Provide support for Chief Engineers in their performance of preventive maintenance on SEP (Secondary Emergency Power) and UPS (Uninterruptible Power Supply) systems in a timely manner. FREELANCE SOFTWARE ENGINEER January 2008 to November 2009 • Working as an independent contractor on several software development projects ranging from web applications, using classic Visual Studio 6.0 and ASP, to data-driven desktop appications created with Visual Studio 2002-2012 (C++/CLI, C# and VB.Net,) and PHP with MySQL.  • Experience developing applications with WCF, WPF, and WF. SENIOR PROJECT MANAGER C.B. Richard Ellis - San Diego, CA April 2007 to December 2007 • Accountable & responsible as Project Management Platform Single Point-of-Contact for critical facility interfaces and communications.  ? Client critical environment process optimization and work authorization procedures; freeze periods; and exception review process.  ? Subject Matter Expert (SME) for objective assessment and investigation to project-related client-impact incidents.  ? Participated in training program for the Project Management (PjM) platform and partner teams related to critical facilities.  • Responsible for adherence of facility partner's (client's) critical environment design standards for Tier 2 and Tier 3 facilities in project management activities throughout the portfolio.  ? SME resource for company-wide project resources regarding design standards and application.  ? Communication of changes and improvements to CBRE project resources and necessary partners (i.e. Architecture/ Engineering)  ? Design review  • Accountable & responsible for interfacing with the Facility Partner engineering platform.  ? Assess gaps in installed conditions vs. design standards to identify and prioritize future project activities. Lead project forecasting efforts.  ? Assess "near capacity" of installed conditions to identify and prioritize future project activities. Lead project forecasting efforts.  • Accountable & responsible as liaison on project forecasting efforts related to schedule and budget  ? Review forecast to identify mission critical facility and project impacts  ? Input project needs from gap analysis and "near capacity" assessment  ? Process improvement opportunities to improve speed and accuracy of budget and schedule.  • Traveled to sites throughout the portfolio and trained PjM personnel on all matters related to critical awareness. INFORMATION SYSTEMS MANAGER Cal-Western Reconveyance Corp - El Cajon, CA September 2006 to April 2007 • Tasks include:  ? Managed a hybrid AS400/ Windows Server 2000/2003 network environment with 100 - 200 users.  ? Personnel managed  * Facilities Operator  * The Assistant Network Administrator  * Desktop technicians  ? Software Development  ? Network Administration SOFTWARE DEVELOPER Cal-Western Reconveyance Corp - El Cajon, CA January 2005 to September 2006 • Tasks include designing, developing, and maintaining  ? Data-driven distributed applications, using a Microsoft SQL Server backend, server-deployed middle tiers, and front-ends written with C# and VB.Net.  ? Distributed Image- and document- management applications, utilizing XML Web Services, Windows Services, .Net Remoting, and the Adobe Acrobat SDK, and leveraging the Microsoft Word Object Model.  ? E-Commerce web applications with C#, VB.Net, and MS SQL Server, Symmetric and Asymmetric data-encryption.  ? Intranet applications that manage and monitor the document- and image-management processes. ASSISTANT CHIEF ENGINEER/ SOLUTIONS DEVELOPER/ NETWORK ENGINEER JONES LANG LASALLE - San Francisco, CA September 2002 to September 2004 • Assisted the Chief Engineer in the performance of his duties.  • Developed multi-tiered, data-driven applications, ranging from employee time-management to work-flow tracking, using Microsoft Visual Studio.NET (VB6, VB.NET, C#, Crystal Reports and ADO.NET.) The latest of which tracks all aspects of work approved and performed on site.  • Upgraded/Maintained Windows NT 4.0 Server network to Windows 2000 Server, and subsequently, to Windows Server 2003. The networks consist of a number of servers, running Windows 2003 Enterprise Edition and clients running Windows 2000 Professional and Windows XP Professional. In addition, this network facilitated the remote monitoring of all components associated with the critical facility's UPS systems. ASSISTANT CHIEF ENGINEER/ NETWORK ADMINISTRATOR/ SOLUTIONS DEVELOPER JOHNSON CONTROLS/C.B. RICHARD ELLIS INC August 1997 to September 2002 • Assisted the Chief Engineer in the performance of his duties.  • Created numerous applications, using Microsoft Access and Excel version 2000.  • Created multi-user computer applications with Visual Basic 5.0, 6.0 and subsequently upgraded to VB.Net, and Microsoft Access 97, utilizing a centralized database, designed to keep track of all active Critical Environment Work Authorizations (CEWAs) which are required for all contract work performed in-house. The program also allows contractors to sign in under a CEWA for each specific task and keeps track of each contractor's location. Other features include online reporting and data archiving.  • Maintained Microsoft Windows NT 4.0 based networks. Duties consist of User and Group Account management, policy implementation, and workstation / server configuration. The Operating Systems supported were: Microsoft Windows NT Workstation 4.0, Windows 95, and Windows NT Server 4.0. Education BS In-Progress in Electrical Engineering University of California, San Diego - San Diego, CA August 2004 to January 2008 Skills Microsoft Office, Microsoft Visual Studio, AutoCAD, Microsoft Windows Server/Workstation OSs, Network Administration, Database Developer (10+ years), Data Center, Facility Maintenance Certifications/Licenses Licensed Professional Electrical Engineer January 2005 to Present Licensed Professional Electrical Engineer, California  License Number: E17560