Software Engineer <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Software Engineer - State of Wisconsin Seattle, WA • 8 + years of progressive technical and functional experience specializing in analysis, design, and development of Internet, Intranet, Client Server and Object Oriented applications built on .NET Framework.  • Experience in developing business and n-tier applications using C#.NET, VB.NET, ASP.NET,ADO.NET, Entity Framework and LINQ to SQL.  • Worked on architectures likeMVC 5.0/4.0, SOA, Multi-Tier architectures.  • Outstanding ability in Design, Development, Security, Testing and consuming of distributed applications using Windows Communication Foundation (WCF), and also responsible for developing WCF based Service, Data, Fault and Message Contracts and services.  • Experience using ASP.NET Web API to build RESTFUL WebServices.  • Expertise in AngularJS controllers, directives, components, factory and service resources, routings, and events.  • Experience with using Multithreading to improve performance.  • Experience in web application design and development using ASP.NET, HTML, JavaScript, jQuery, XML,CSS and also Bootstrap to build responsive web applications.  • Experience in creating dynamic web pages using WinForms,Web Forms, User Controls, Custom Controls, ASP.NET Validation controls and AJAX Framework to obtain partial updates and faster response time.  • Experience of creating rich UI applications in WPF 4.5/4.0, Silverlight 4.0/3.0 along with XAML programming.  • Experience in working with 3rd party controls like Telerik Controls in .Net applications.  • Worked on Microsoft Team Foundation Server and Visual SurfaceSafe for code repository, deployment and version control.  • Knowledge on OOPS Concepts and designing UML Design Patterns.  • Experience working onAbstract Factory Design pattern.  • Expertise in Databasedesign and development using SQLServer2005/2008/2010/2012, Oracle, T-SQL, PL/SQL and hands onexperience in developing storedprocedures, functions, queries, triggers.  • Configured and maintained SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS).  • Involved in Installation, Configuration, Development, Deployment and Troubleshoot Reporting services using SSRS 2005/2008.  • Experience using MSMQ for email service.  • Deploying the applications on IIS and remote servers and ability to manage deliverables as per the scheduled target dates.  • Developing large scale enterprise applications and systems in a web-based environment.  • Worked on several projects which were developed using agile methodology.  • Highly motivated team player with zeal to learn new technologies and always believes in giving the best efforts in challenging environments.  • Effective in working independently and collaboratively in teams. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Engineer State of Wisconsin - Madison, WI March 2016 to Present State Transforming AgencyResources is used to consolidate IT systems and equipment for improved efficiency, consistency among state agencies, and modernization of the State's IT infrastructure. The Uninsured Employers Fund (UEF) pays worker's compensation benefits on valid worker's compensation claims filed by employees who are injured while working for illegally uninsured Wisconsin employers.  Role & Responsibilities:  • Analyzing and understanding the detailed business requirements.Developing the design specifications for business requirements.  • Developing web based N-Tier application using Oracle, WCF Services/ REST Services and ASP.NET MVC.  • Effectively implemented ASP.NET security infrastructure for authenticating and authorizing user access as well as performing other security related tasks.  • Extensively used ASP.NET MVC architecture for the Web application design to have the application layers loosely coupled.  • Working with MVC5 Razor View Engine to develop the user interface.  • Experience using ASP.NET Web API to provide services for an application which uses only HTTP requests and accessed in different platforms and browsers.  • Using several in built AngularJS core directives, expressions, modules and alsodeveloping SPA (Single page application).  • Used AngularJS Controllers in view data and created Angular Service calls using Angular Factory.  • Implemented jQuery for client side sorting and validations.  • Designing responsive webpages using CSS and Bootstrap grid system.  • Developing Controllers and Model classes.  • Creating unit tests and running them in build environment.  • Created Views by applying complex queries on multiple tables, implemented Cursors in Stored Procedures.  • Creating PDF files with COM control Using XML, XSLT and XPath using Windows forms.  • Generating reports using Crystal Reports.  • Developing an application in WPF that generates Silverlight Class library by taking XML file as an input.  • DesigningWPF Forms, Custom Controls and User Controls using XAML language for interactive UI.  • Creating the User Interface withSilverlightapplication and developing the User Interface controls in XAML pages using Silverlight.  • Developing middleware component classes and WCF services across the enterprise and integrated in UI using MVVMpattern in MVVM Light framework  • Using MSMQ to send generated reports to different groups.  • Developingbatch jobs using C#.NETand Oracle and also migrating VB 6.0 batch jobs to C#.NET.  • Running and monitoring jobs using Control-M.  • Assisting and supporting other team members on multiple projects.  • Participating in daily Scrums with the whole team to discuss about the progress of the application development, specks to be taken care and specks that already completed.  Environment:  .NET Framework 4.5/4.0, Visual studio 2013/2012, ASP.NETMVC 5, WCF Services, ASP.NET Web API, C#.NET, WPF, Strongly Typed Dataset, LINQ, Oracle, PL/SQL, TFS, XML, Crystal Reports, MSMQ, JavaScript, jQuery, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, AngularJS, Crystal Reports. Senior .NET Developer Insurance Auto Auctions, Inc - Westchester, IL June 2015 to February 2016 Insurance Auto Auctions, Inc. is one of the leading North American salvage auto auctions with the largest facility footprint, strong buyer base and high auction returns. Salvage providers auction process application is to receive vehicles from customers known as Salvage Providers and auction them off to other customers known as Buyers. Each vehicle acquired by IAAI proceeds through distinct stages starting with Assignment and ending with Settlement.  Role & Responsibilities:  • Developing and maintaining the large scale business application using .Net technologies, WCF Services, MVC 4.0, and Entity Framework, SQL and XML.  • Working on Agile Methodology to meet timelines with quality deliverables.  • Using MVC 4.0 architecture in the application development.  • Creatingpartial views which are user controls and rendered them inside a parent view.  • UsingRazor view engine because of its light weight and simple syntaxes.  • ImplementingjQuery for client side scripting and custom formatting and communicate with RESTFUL web services.  • UsingAJAX methods for asynchronous calls to server using client side scripting.  • Using JavaScript forclient side validations.  • Working on .NET Security features such as Authentication & Authorization, Forms-based Authentication, Authorizing Users, Roles and User Account Impersonation.  • Designing and developing SOA services using WCF.  • Developing proxy classes for consuming WCF services.  • Implementing the Custom Binding and Binary Message Encoding in WCF Service.  • UsingEntity Framework to support the development of data-oriented software application.  • Creating custom entities in entity framework to connect data access layers and SQL server 2008.  • UsingLINQ to query against strongly typed collections of object and Entity Framework 4.0.  • Knowledge in Quality Assurance, Manual, Automated, Client/Server Testing.  • Developing reports using complex formulas and to query the database to generate different types of ad-hoc reports using SSRS.  • Writing complex stored procedures, queries, functions to fetch data from complex views and tables using many joins in T-SQL.  • Testing the application for performance issues and data integrity using NUnit.  • Working knowledge of using Git as the version control system and managing the project.  Environment:  .NET Framework 4.0/3.5, ASP.NET MVC 4, WCF Services, C#.NET, LINQ, Entity Framework, RegEx, SQL Server 2008, T-SQL, SSRS, TFS, Entity Framework, XML, NUnit. Software Engineer Esurance - San Francisco, CA January 2013 to June 2015 Esurance is online-only insurance company and is also the fastest growing company. Auto insurance buyers can get quotes and purchase policies from Esurance. This application supports 28 states in United States. Used factory design pattern to implement state specific business, also used MVC pattern. Web services were created and consumed for different functions like verifying address of the customer, credit card payments. Reporting services were used to maintain bulk data.    Roles & Responsibilities:  • Developing web applications using ASP.NET and AJAX Extensions under MVC architecture.  • CreatingWinForms for developing the applications using web server controls and HTML controls.  • Implementing business logic using C#.NET.  • Developingweb user controls and custom controls.  • Using Datasets, DataReader and SQLDataAdapter fordatabase transactions.  • Configuring Global.asax and web.configfor setting the Application and Session variables.  • DevelopingWeb Services and invoked them by using XML, SOAP and WSDL tool for creating proxy classes.  • Working on XML Serialization to access the properties of an object and modify its values.  • Using Entity Framework, connected to relational data by writing LINQ to SQL queries.  • Using sessions for security and proper navigation.  • Writing queries, stored procedures, Functions, Triggers to get the data from SQL Server 2008.  • UsingQuery Optimization for improving performance.  • Consolidating data from different sources using SQL Server Integration Services and generating reports using SQL Server Reporting Services.  • Experience using NServiceBus endpoint to collect incoming auction data and creating reports for the application.  • Experience using MSMQ to send bulk emails for email service.  • Developing tabular, matrix and chart type of reports in SSRS also working on developing end-to-end SSRS reports.  • Solving problemlogs and bugs in the application.  • Involved in writing test cases for the whole application for unit testing.  • Working with Team Foundation Server as the source for version control and project management.    Environment:  ASP.NET, C#.NET, ADO.NET, Visual Studio.NET 2008, XML, SQL Server 2008, T- SQL, SSIS, SSRS, NServiceBus, .NET Framework 3.5/3.0, AJAX Control Toolkit, MSMQ, SSRS, Team Foundation Server. Net Developer PricewaterhouseCoopers - Washington, DC November 2010 to December 2012 RPM is a web application that provides common approach to preparing tax returns using the firm's standardized process called Return Process Methodology. RPM Framework hosts applications which are used by PwC users to prepare Tax file on behalf of their clients like Individuals, Partnership and Corporate. RPM is used by PwC users who are assigned to client and for preparing Tax filing for these clients.    Roles &Responsibilities:  • Interacting with client for requirements, discussing the feasibility of requirements, designing the layout of web pages, architecture and participating in the development.  • Involved in developing the Data Access Layer, Business components and Business Layer in C#.NET, where all the Business Objects are written in developing the whole Application.  • Designinguser interface in C#.NET with WinForms, HTML Controls and Web Controls.  • Creating event driven Web Forms using ASP.NET and implemented form validation using JavaScript.  • Working on ASP.NET state Management, Caching features, configuring ASP.NET optimizations, securing ASP.NET web application.  • Developing the Web Application in ASP.Net 3.5 using Master Page, Themes & skins to maintain the consistent look and feel throughout the application.  • Creating CSS files to be applied to various web forms on the web pages.  • Working on UI using AJAX to provide asynchronous communication and highly responsive user interface and for making smaller, faster and user friendly web-page application.  • UsingWCF for interoperability with other platforms, technologies and for building the custom solutions.  • Implementing WCF endpoints for services for communication in different protocols and configuringWCF service to authenticate clients with Windows credentials.  • Using Data Contract as the standard mechanism in the WCF for serializing .NET object types into XML.  • UsingWPF for creating windows and custom win form control using various animation techniques.  • UsingLINQ to SQL (object relational mapping) for integrating data validation and business logic rules into data model and used Data Grids, Repeaters and Data Lists for user and administrator for reports with multiple pages.  • Creating databases and database objects including tables, indexes and applied constraints, connected various applications to the database and written functions, User Defined functions and triggers in SQL server.  • Working on Microsoft Team Foundation Server for version control, individual task status and Database server project.    Environment:  .Net Framework 3.0, C#.NET, ASP.NET, WCF, WPF, JQuery, LINQ to SQL, XML Web Services, IIS, WSDL, MVC, Scrum, SOAP, ADO.NET, MSMQ, LINQ, XAML, XML/ XPath, SSRS, SQL Server 2008, Team Foundation Server. Software Developer Integro Insurance Group Inc - New York, NY January 2009 to October 2010 Integro Insurance Group Inc. is a global insurance brokerage and specialty risk management firm driven to deliver dedicated, quality insurance brokerage services through client-first, transparent business practices which headquarter is in New York City. Compliance Web Project is a WEBAPI and MVC based project which use AngluarJS in front-end. The internal users can view and fill all the compliance forms information and the admin can also manage users and groups. The manger has access to review model that can review the forms. The application also have report module which can generate the reports regarding all the forms, the Notification model will notify the users before the due date through the email. The Enterprise Monitor Application is built from scratch which can monitor the Compliance Project and all the other third party services, check health status for terminals from all the locations in US which integrated with ServiceNow.  Role & Responsibilities:  • Involved in developing different web applications.  • UsingASP.NET, HTML, CSS and Visual Studio tools to design presentation layer for dynamic web forms.  • Extensively usingCascading Style Sheets and XML-Schemas.  • Using .NET Login controls to create User Wizard, Password Recovery, Login View, Login Status and Custom Controls.  • Developing web pages which include ASP.NET AJAX Toolkit controls like Script Manager, Update Panel and Modal Popup Extender.  • UsingVB.NETdeveloped Data Access Layer, Business Logic Layer and other components.  • Implementing Data Grids for displaying data and editable Data Grids for data manipulation in the presentation layer.  • Working withRemoting, Events and Delegates, Multithreading.  • Working with XML to exchange data between the Client and Server.  • Extensively usingADO.NET for querying, data manipulation, and storage.  • UsingLINQ to write queries against the database (LINQ to SQL), dataset (LINQ to dataset).  • Developing a powerful search functionality, which retrieves results based on search criteria across several datasets.  • DevelopingStored Procedures, Triggers, Views, and Cursors using SQL Server 2005 and Oracle databases.  • Experience building interactive data tools likegraphs, grids, grouping and charts using Telerik controls.  • Performingdebugging and exception handling in support to the software development.  • UsingTFS (Team Foundation Server) for the source control, data collection, reporting and project tracking.  Environment:  ASP.NET, VB.NET, MS Visual Studio 2005/2008, ADO.NET, MS SQL Server 2005, LINQ, Microsoft Office 2007, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX Control Toolkit, TFS, XML, XSLT, HTML, CSS. Education Bachelor's Skills .NET (9 years), ASP (9 years), ASP.NET (9 years), MS ASP (9 years), SQL (9 years) Additional Information Technical Skills    Languages C#.NET , VB.NET, C, C++  Web Technologies ASP.NET, .NET 2.0/3.0/3.5/4.0/4.5, AJAX, CSS, XML, XSD, HTML/XHTML, DHTML, JSON  Database  SQL Server 2012/2008/2005, T-SQL, Entity Framework, ADO.NET, LINQ to SQL, SSIS(SQL Server Integration Services), SSRS, Oracle 10g, PL/SQL    Scripting Languages JavaScript, jQuery  Client-Side framework AngularJS  Development Tools MS Visual Studio 2015/2012/2008  Testing NUnit, Unit testing, VS Testing Project, User Acceptance Testing  Source Code Control Team Foundation Server, SVN, GitHub  Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) WCF, Web Services, SOAP, REST, Windows Services, ASP.NET Web API  Special Technologies OOP,NServiceBus, WPF, MVC5, MVVM, MSMQ  Web Servers IIS 7.0  Third Party Controls TelerikRadControls for ASP.NET AJAX