Sr .Net/UI Developer Sr .Net/UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr .Net/UI Developer - Pwc Orlando, FL • 9+ Years of experience as a .Net Developer, with expertise in Software Analysis, Design, Development, Testing and Troubleshooting of applications based on Client/Server, N-tier Architecture in Internet, Intranet and Windows Applications.  • Full Software Development Life Cycle experience including Analysis, Design, Documentation, Development, Testing and Implementation  • Well versed with Waterfall,Agile (Scrum) and Test Driven Development (TDD) methodologies.  • Expert in Microsoft Technologies like C#.Net, Classic ASP, ASP.NET, MVC 5/4/3, REST API, Razor view engine, ADO.NET, Web API, WCF, WPF, XML, SQL Server 2012/2008, .NET Framework 4.5/4.0/3.5/3.0 and IIS web server.  • Experience in developing N-Tier architecture based web applications using Visual Studio, C#, Web API, Microsoft SQL Server and .Net framework.  • Experience in developing Cross-Platform Mobile applications using Xamarin Forms and Native Mobile App using Xamarin.Android and Xamarin.iOS  • Experience in developing windows and web applications using XML in Windows Presentation Foundation (WPF) using MVVM.  • Experience in Design and Development of User Interfaces usingHTML, CSS, JavaScript, Typescript, j-Query, JSON, ASP.NET, Bootstrap and Angular 2.0/1.5, as well as used AJAX UI Controls for partial page rendering.  • Experience in programming database applications to interact with the databases, extensively used LINQ, Entity Framework and ADO.NET class objects like Data-Reader object, Data-Set object, Data-Adapters object and Transaction object.  • Experience in Object Relational Mapping tools like LINQ, Entity Framework.  • Good experience in querying the database using SQL written Stored Procedures, Views, User Defined functions, Joins, Database triggers and Cursors.  • Experience in handling various backend data sources like MS SQL Server 2000/07/08/16, MS Access, XML Data source, Oracle 10g.  • Experience in working with SSIS for performing the extract, transform and load operations to the SQL Server database and data binding and data analysis.  • Experience in generating reports using Microsoft reporting services SQL Server Reporting Servciesand Crystal Reports.  • Well versed in Object Oriented Design/Programming (OOD/OOP) and SOLID Design principles and Design Patterns like Dependency Injection, Inversion of control, MVCand Singleton.  • Worked in building effective applications based on SOLID principles for C#.  • Hands on experience in Events, Delegates, Security, Globalization, and Error Handling Techniques.  • Experience in design and implementation of services using WCF SOAP\REST, creating REST services using ASP.NET Web API. With JSON and XML formats.  • Extensive experience in developing WCF Services to expose useful functionality to web users through SOAP, describing them using WSDL for easy availability to potential users and consuming them.  • Deployed .NET applications on IIS server and configured them to use security features.  • Worked on CI/CD integration and development using Jenkins and TeamCity.  • Experience in using version control tools like Team Foundation Server (TFS),GIT,VSS and SVN.  • Worked with JIRA for issue tracking and product management.  • Experienced in test driven development using N-Unittesting for the piecewise testing of the Applications.  • Experience in Testing of applications in both the Front-End and the Back-end.  • Good interpersonal, written and verbal communication skills, very good team player and also has ability to work independently in high-pressure environments and stressful situations. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr .Net/UI Developer Pwc - San Francisco, CA June 2016 to Present CoFEE Anywhere application provides a web based environment for Consumer Call Center representatives to take orders. COFEE Anywhere is a high-performance; Web based desktop ordering System used for installing, changing, moving, or disconnecting telephone, Data (Internet), Broadband and Video service of retail Consumers and Business customers. The application's main goal is to provide a single interface for the call center representatives to quickly and efficiently handle all types of customer requests.    Responsibilities:  • Primary liaison with the customer for requirement gathering, analysis using Iterative SDLC methodology.  • Design & development of Web application using ASP.Net, AJAX, JavaScript, jQuery, CSS, DeveloperTool, C#.Net, WCF, SOAP, XML technologies.  • Used AngularJS and ASP.NET MVC 5 pattern as the development framework to build a single-page application.  • Involved in the implementation of open- source web application frameworks like Bootstrap and AngularJS.  • Developed the User interfaces using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and jQuery  • Extensive coding in HTML/CSS/JavaScript.  • Heavy usage of AngularJS and JQuery for AJAX functionality  • Created View Models to encapsulate all models and classes used on the different views for more stable, organized and clean code to reuse in Views.  • Developed dynamic ClientUI using HTML and Angular JS.  • Used AngularJS as the development framework to build a single-page application  • Responsible for ensuring that UI codebase is scalable and maintainable  • Comprehensive understanding of AngularJS Module, Controller, Routing.  • Used Repository Pattern to build reliable and generic architecture and easily testable and utilized Entity Framework 5.0 Code First Approach. Familiar with using Package Manager Console to achieve Database Migration.  • Designed the responsive layout of the Website, Modal Login Page by using Bootstrap.  • Implemented rootScope to implement Authentication and Authorization.  • Proficiently used custom AngularJS Filter, Directive, and Service to achieve the various functionalities of the website.  • Applied JQueryUI AutoComplete to improve the searching and filtering  • Proficiently applied the directives in UI Bootstrap Library to make more dynamic and smooth UI, like Modal Popup, Dropdown navigation bar and Datepicker controls  • Used Chrome DevTools to debug JavaScript code and check the request and respond package.  • Source Version Management through Team Foundation Server 2013 and experienced Agile Methodology.  Environment: Visual Studio 2013, ASP.NET MVC 5.0, SQL Server 2014, AngularJS, Bootstrap, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, JQueryUI, C#, Chrome DevTools, Entity Framework 5.0, Restful Architecture, Web API 2.0, LINQ, AJAX, JSON, XML, , SSRS, TFS and Agile Scrum. Sr Software Developer Olam International - Fresno, CA January 2015 to May 2016 is a leading agri-business operating from seed to shelf in 70 countries, supplying food and industrial raw materials to over 23,000 customers worldwide. Our team of 70,000 employees has built a leadership position in many businesses including cocoa, coffee, cashew, rice and cotton. Currently, I am working on Grower Management System at OLAM Fresno CA USA as Senior Software Developer through Global Point Inc.    Responsibilities:  • Requirements analysis, creation of architecture diagrams.  • Involve in a development effort using programming languages and methodologies like: VB.Net, ASP.NET, and MS-SQL Server 2016, JavaScript, JQuery on Microsoft Windows platforms using agile methodology  • Responsible for Unit Testing and bug fixing.  • Create and modify database objects like tables, stored procedures, triggers, and views using Sql Server 2016.  • Create low level design and high level technical design documents and got it reviewed.  • Enhanced the applications performance by constantly monitoring the queries by running Execution plans and query optimization techniques in SQL server.  • Using Team Foundation Server (TFS) for Version Control, Team build, Project Management, Data Collection and Reporting.  • Used AJAX Library, CSS, JavaScript and various web controls to present data to users in a much comfortable environment and implemented responsive web design.  • Involved in Agile SDLC methodology SCRUM Framework and involved in Planning, Designing, Development and Testing. Net Developer Everest Insurance - Bernards, New Jersey, US March 2012 to December 2014 Everest is a world leader in property and casualty (P&C) reinsurance and insurance, offering innovative products, responsive service and unsurpassed financial strength. Everest Reinsurance Company underwrites virtually all classes and categories of business in treaty, facultative and specialty lines, both through brokers and directly with ceding companies. The project is a web application which deals with the property and casualty insurance.    Responsibilities:  • Developed web application using C#.NET, MVC 4 and REST Web API.  • Utilized ADO.NET Entity Framework technology extensively for data retrieving, querying, storage and manipulation using LINQ.  • Utilized LINQ to SQL and LINQ to XML to interact with the SQL Server database 2012 for data retrieving, querying, storage and manipulation using Entity Data Model along with XML.  • Involved in the development of SQL queries with Joins on multiple tables, Stored Procedures, Functions, Triggers and Indexes using SQL Server 2012.  • Development of complex stored procedures and SQL queries using SQL Server for extracting, inserting and manipulating the data and display on Grid view controls and dropdown list boxes and User controls.  • Involved in the utilization of AngularJS, JavaScript, J-QUERYand Bootstrap for client side validations.  • Implemented AJAX Update Panel from views to action methods for asynchronous calls.  • Implemented Generic classes for Business Layer and Data Access Layer using C#.  • Developed WCF services to enable effective communication between SOA.  • Using TFS to communicate and track the defects during various phases of testing.  • Performing unit testing and integration testing for the application and coordinating with performance testing team for load testing the application.  • Involved in the co-ordination with release management and business user testing teams on the successful roll-out of the applications.  • Participated in department specific and project-wide meetings.  • Involved in Configuration and Deployment of the System in IIS Server.  • Used TFS as a version control tool.  • Involved in bug fixing and resolving issues with the QA.  • Responsible for the production support and maintenance of the application.  • Used agile methodology for developing the application.  • Involved in attending the release review meetings to identify the new functionalities and provided knowledge sharing sessions to the offshore team members.  Environment: Visual Studio 2013, .NET Framework 4.0, C#.NET, ASP.NET MVC 4, ADO.NET, Oracle, MS SQL Server HTML4, CSS3, JavaScript, J-Query, Bootstrap, AJAX, XML, WCF, Web API, LINQ, SQL Server 2012, TFS Net Developer GEICO - Chevy Chase, MD February 2010 to February 2012 The Government Employees Insurance Company is an American auto insurance company headquartered in Chevy Chase, Maryland. It is the second largest auto insurer in the United States, after State Farm.    Responsibilities:  • Interacting with client for requirements, discussing the feasibility of requirements, designing the layout of web pages, Architecture and participating in the development.  • Involved in designing, trading and documentation of application flows and developed functional diagrams using Visio, worked on presentation layer for developing GUI and developed Web forms using ASP.Net.  • Designed and Developed Dynamic WebPages using Bootstrap, JavaScript, JQUERYor front end development  • actively used ASP.Net, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX control.  • Developed WebPages by using MVC Razor, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQUERY&Knockout.js  • Experience in building and consuming ASP.NET Web API/Web Services.  • Used WPF built-in set of data controls to bind and manipulate data within applications.  • Developed ASP.Net Custom controls and User Controls. Experienced in using GIT hub.  • Involved in Developing Master Pages using Style Sheet and for providing uniformity among the pages using ASP.NET (3.5). Extensively used Win-forms to improve the User interface.  • Designed Model View controller using ASP.NET MVC and SQL Server 2012 for Data Layer.  • Worked on AJAX frame work for interactive web application and used Enterprise Application Library functions to enhance the application performance.  • Used MicrosoftADO.NET to access data from database in a web application.  • Implemented Entity Framework with C# in Visual Studio 2013 to establish connections between server-side web application and a MS SQL Server 2012 database.  • Extensively used the LINQ feature in .NET 3.5 for querying collections and integrating with SQL.  • Used SQL server 2012 for writing Stored Procedures, Views and Triggers.  • Testing the application for performance issues and data integrity using N-Unit.  Environment:Visual Studio 2012/2010/2008/2005, ASP, ASP.Net, ADO.Net, Entity Framework, C#.Net, Microsoft IIS V.6, CSS, AJAX Controls, Bootstrap, WCF, Web services, XML, XSLT, SOA, ASP.NET MVC 4.0, N-Unit, SharePoint 2007 SQL Server 2012, SSRS. Sr. Xamarin/.Net Developer 3Di Systems - Los Angeles, CA September 2008 to January 2010 3Di has designed and delivered business-driven information technology solutions for over 20 years, that have enabled our clients to become more responsive to market opportunities and operational requirements, improve productivity and reduce IT service costs.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in developing cross platform mobile application which can run on both iOS and Windows platforms from the architecture of the application to implementing it by using Xamarin Studio.  • Extend line of business functionality with Visual Studio Tools for Office.  • Utilize a tiered pattern for Silverlight projects with WCF RIA Services.  • Involved in parsing JSON and XML files to obtain data to be used by Content Manager and Download Manager.  • Worked in agile environment with daily scrums and biweekly sprints.  • Extensively involved on the back-end side of the project mainly on download manager and content manager of the mobile application.  • Extensively worked on planning the Application and helped in creating the wireframes.  • Tracked progress through version one and communicated via team rooms in version one.  • Involved in making user stories and creating tasks to be completed in the sprint through Version One.  • Used XIB files for creating storyboards and for iOS UI experience.  • Extensively used the new feature of C 5.0 a sync and await to easily write code to perform multiple tasks simultaneously for the download manager without blocking the main thread.  • Responsible for creating Custom Renderers, Buttons, Labels, and Custom Font, as per business requirements.  • Practice MVVM design pattern for the WPF, Silverlight UX platforms.  • Included in changes to Restful API Services, to handle demand from POS server and reacted back with the required data by getting the data from the Database and used DIC.  • Involved in checking the code into the repository via GIT, Source Tree and Perforce.  • Responsible for implementing reusable client proxy component for consuming the information from the Restful API using Modern Http Client component.  • Used SQLite.NET with Xamarin. Forms and MVVM for reading and writing data to a local SQLite database.  • Used Xamarin Insights for finding and debugging issues in the app.  • Used Xamarin test cloud to automate testing.  • Used ZEBRA CROSSING to implement barcode scanning features.  • Earned recognition for meeting deadlines in short amount of time, enjoyed working in a team and yet flexible to take individual responsibilities.  • Used NServicebus handles to asynchronously process the website request which will improve the performance of the website.  Environment: Visual Studio .NET 2015, .NET Framework 4.5, Xamarin Studio, XCode, Xamarin. Forms, MVVM, Xamarin test cloud, SQLite.NET, Azure Mobile Services, IOS, Android, Entity Framework Education Bachelor's Skills .NET (8 years), AJAX (8 years), API (8 years), ASP (8 years), ASP.NET (8 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Programming Languages C, C#, C++, VB.Net, Python, Java, PL/SQL, T-SQL, LINQ  Web Technologies  Angular 2/1.5, Bootstrap 3/2, J-Query, JavaScript, Typescript HTML5/4, DHTML, CSS3, XML, HTTP, SOAP, Web Services, WSDL, JSON, XML and Ajax    .Net Technologies Xamarin, Web API, WCF, WPF, ADO.Net, Classic ASP, ASP.NET MVC 5/4/3, ASP.NET, Web Forms, Entity Framework, LINQ  Web Servers IIS 7.5, 7.0, 6.0 and 5.0  Databases SQL 2012/2008 R2, MS Access, Oracle 10g  Tools and Utilities Visual Studio 2015/2013/2012/2010, JIRA, TeamCity, Jenkins  Version Control Tools TFS, VSS, SVN, Git, BitBucket  Operating Systems Windows 8/7/XP/2005