Contract Software Engineer Contract <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Contract Software Engineer Philadelphia, PA Software Development Work Experience Contract Software Engineer Integrated Resource inc - Silver Spring, MD April 2018 to December 2018 Worked as a contract software engineer to develop a middle tier/ Web API for vRepair Solution, which is fault / ticket management system.  ? Built Spring Boot Web API restful controller with JSON format  ? Created the Java classes for controllers  ? Created the Java class to handle JDBC to work with Oracle Database  ? To process data though Oracle Store procedures/PL-SQL queries  ? To perform unit test and to test by tool Postman  ? Set up Application properties    Development environments: STS/Spring Tool Suite/Eclipse IDE, Maven, Oracle 11g, JDBC, Java 8, Linux, Windows, Postman, Spring boot framework, Microservices. Enterprise Application Developer YOH/APN Software Service Inc - Quad Cities August 2017 to January 2018 and IA  Worked as a contract software developer to develop backend solution for field service of Electrical Substation to work remotely in an efficient way by using update technologies to support both Windows and Android mobile devices.  ? Built MS ASP.net Web API 2 restful controller with JSON format  ? To design and create data base tables, Store procedures/PL-SQL queries and data import in Oracle database  ? To build customize business process library with C# for MS BizTalk  ? To develop complex XML serialization classes to generate XML files  ? To create the unit testing for better quality and bug free software  ? Performed debugging and testing by using MS Xamarin Form for UWP app and Restlet client    Development environments: MS Visual Studio 2015 and 2017, Oracle 11g, Oracle SQL Developer, MS TFS, C#.net 4.6, UWP, Linq, XML, MS ASP.net, Web API 2. Power Shell, VSTS. Sr. Application Developer Collabera Inc - Urbandale, IA December 2015 to February 2016 Worked as a software development consultant to migrate a web application/daily process report and payment process based with open source PHP/MySQL to C#, ASP.net/MS SQL server.  ? To gather and Analyze customer business requirements and map to data model  ? To design and create data base tables, view, queries and store procedures in MS SQL server  ? Develop ASP.net base web Page to map the same functions in PHP web page  ? Develop C#, console multithread app to extract data from Oracle and Access to SQL server    Development environments: MS Visual Studio 2013, MS SQL Server 2012, Oracle 11g, Oracle SQL Developer, PhpMyAdmin, MS management Studio, MS Access, Excel, MS TFS, log4net, C#.net 4.5, Linq, HTML5, XML, CSS, JavaScript. ODBC, ADO.net, ASP.net, Web Form, Master page, Controls. Net Software Consultant Robert Half Technologies - Oklahoma City, OK February 2015 to September 2015 Worked as a software development consultant to develop a web with restful web API architecture for insurance service professional to handle conservation and annuity service in an efficient way by using update technologies.  ? To gather and Analyze customer business requirements and map to data model  ? To design and create data base tables, view and queries  ? To use ORM tool entity framework to generate C# class  ? To design and create C# classes/interface in adaptor and controller layer,  ? To integrate web service for acquiring data from different source  ? To design and create HTML web pages with CSS bootstrap  ? To create JavaScript files for AngularJS, controllers, Data binding, BreezeJS database entity integration to handle page data interacted with backend  ? To integrate EMC xPression service with template to generate PDF documents  ? To create application user manual    Development environments: MS Visual Studio 2013, MS SQL Server 2012, Apache Subversion/SVN, Castle Windsor inversion of control container, NuGet package manager, Entity Framework 6.0, SQL, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JSON, OData, XML, SQL, LINQ, C#, .Net 4.5, JavaScript, WCF web service, AngularJS, BreezeJS, EMC Xpression, Web API 2.0, IIS, TFS, Chrome    Developed EDI translator program for converting a data from legacy application to EDI format for external EDI application.  ? To gather and Analyze requirements with Business Analyst  ? To design and create Desktop App / WinForm for manual processing and Console Application for automation batch processing by scheduling a task on system  ? Created C# class code to handle a batch of zip files and parse all individual flat file (CSV) to convert into EDI X12 data structure format provided by external client  ? Valid legacy data with lambda expression and business rules  ? Log essential info and error from legacy data for additional further processing.    Development environments: MS Visual Studio 2013, C#.net 4.5, Subversion/SVN. Net Software Developer Inceed Consulting - Tulsa, OK September 2014 to January 2015 Worked as a developer to analyze and maintain existing code and data from various sources, business specification for a product ARINC OnVoy, a comprehensive solution/tool to help passengers of major cruise lines to remote check-in, and off-site airport included in hotels and resorts.  ? To fix bugs based on IBM ClearQuest system for multithread application, object orient programming in C#  ? Integrate testing with data from various airline systems  ? To analyze design and business documents for new product Biometric Security enhanced System, integrated with Atkins images SDK  ? To develop Biometric system (middleware) in C#, SOA (Service of Architecture), WCF (Windows Communication Foundation), Windows service, callback, delegates/events.  ? To develop components (Plug-in DLL) to successfully integrate to various airport check-in hardware devices such as Bar Code Reader (BCR), Boarding Gate Reader (BGR), Automated Ticket and Boarding Pass (ATB) thermal printer and Optical Character Recognition (OCR) scanner.    Development environments: MS Visual Studio, .Net, C#, WinForm, Windows Services, IIS, Windows Server, WCF, XML, multithread, IBM ClearQuest, SVN and Visual source safe, n-tier and MS SQL Server Net Developer Artech Information Systems - Tallahassee, FL October 2013 to March 2014 Worked as a senior software developer to analyze and maintain existing code and data from various tables for photo enforcement application in transportation management; a comprehensive web based tool.  ? To create design documents, to make code changes (C#, JavaScript, VBScript, HTML, SQL) for web pages in agile environment  ? To create store procedures in T-SQL server for new functions  ? To maintain crystal reports as business needs  ? To maintain load script (VBScripts) files for scheduled jobs  ? To support various client operation issues with on call status    Development environments: MS Visual Studio 10, IIS 7.5, MS SQL Server 2008 R2, C#, ASP.net, MVC, Classic ASP, JavaScript, CSS3, Bootstrap, VBScript, XML, Subversion (SVN) source control system, JIRA bug tracking system, Crystal Report, n-tier and SQL Technology Analyst/.Net Developer Infosys Consulting - Merrimack, NH December 2011 to July 2013 Infosys Consulting  Worked as a developer to analyze existing code and data from various tables, business specification compliance for AIMRGIPS annual period compliant composite reports; a web based report tool.  ? Worked in GDM (global delivery model) of Infosys  ? Worked with business analyst to collect user requirements and performed business analysis  ? To create design documents and follow waterfall methodology process  ? To modify the Perl code, ASP pages with C#, JavaScript, VBScript and store procedures  ? Write SQL/PL SQL query with Oracle and Sybase  ? To build deploy package to successfully execute the project to production from onshore    Development environments: MS Visual Studio, IIS, Sun Solaris, Sybase, Oracle, Embarcadero Rapid SQL, HP manager, IBM Clearcase, C#, ASP, MVC, JavaScript, VBScript, Perl, XML, n-tier and SQL    Project in Aetna Healthcare Insurance, Hartford, CT / Infosys Consulting  Worked as a consultant with Aetna Inc for MLR (medical loss rate) project for HCR (health care reform) requirements across plan domain. Was part of team to design, develop and enhance different functionality in NCO service.  ? Worked in GDM (global delivery model) of Infosys  ? Collected user requirements and performed business analysis  ? Designed and Created win form, tables  ? Created reports by using SSRS  ? Created data based on data warehouse with using SSIS for ETL process  ? Created Macros/VBA for MS Excel and Access    Development environments: MS Visual Studio, SQL server, Clearcase, entity framework, .net, C#, Windows server 2008, windows 7, Win Form, n-tier and T-SQL, SSIS, SSRS Software Engineer / C#.Net Developer Fusion Trade Inc - Andover, MA April 2011 to August 2011 Developed extended functions for Scout Software System, a global network platform, which is a management system for trading/distributing worldwide specialized in electronic parts and components, including purchase, sales, inventory, logistics (receiving, shipping), performance analysis and billing.c system existing features meet the ongoing business needs  ? Collected user requirements and performed business analysis  ? Designed, created and modified win form, custom controls, list view, tool strip etc.  ? Integrated FedEx, UPS and DHL for tracking, shipping and rates over web service and XML service  ? Integrated with EDI billing system over network with logistic companies  ? Worked with TFS, Visual Studio  Integrated with www.google.com web online API for financial information such as foreign currency exchange rates EMC Documentum Developer Unbounded Solutions - Atlanta, GA November 2010 to February 2011 Worked as Developer for Documentum Enterprise Content Management (ECM) System Application Customization and Configuration  ? Designed and implemented various WebTop customizations  ? Customized/Build ACL, workflow and lifecycles in compliance with design requirements  ? Write SQL/PL SQL query with Oracle  ? Installed and configured Documentum content server 6.x and client application included WebTop, Documentum Administrator (DA), Composer  ? Installed and configured Captiva InputAccel  ? Involved in system QA and testing    Environment includes Java/J2EE/JSP, NetBean, Oracle 11g, Tomcat, Windows Server, Application Builder, XML, DQL, DFC, WDK, VMware Company Representative SanJiaozhou Chemicals Co - Nanhai, CN October 2008 to August 2010 China, Burnaby, BC  Performed marketing and strategic research for aromatic hydrocarbon compositions, plant operation automation/IT solution and client engagement Software Developer Clinicare Corp January 2007 to August 2008 full time)    Worked as full time developer in Clinicare Corp., Saskatoon Office, SK, Project: Alert system of EMR (Electronic Medical Record)  Developed windows service application with multi-layers and Java interface / Swing integrated with BBX Visual Pro/5 legacy system, which is collecting patients update lab and physical data to check with Excel rule made by users/Doctors and give Doctors references automatically.  ? Designed and developed C# classes and functions in object oriented methodology OOD / OOA for window service to embedded Excel COM object having logic processing functions as user-self define rules with patient history capture  ? Designed and developed management system of windows service to allow user to assess by tray icon in notification area and included updated data from web service  ? Created deployment projects for both applications for client installation  ? Implemented Java interface to present results and integrated with existing system  ? Created reports using Jasper report lib, Data XML files and iReport tool  ? Used Java keytool to create working prototype HTTPS secure transmission of data for web service    Environment includes Visual Studio 2005, .Net framework 2.0, C# .Net, MS Excel, Eclipse, VSTO, Java 1.5, BBx Visual pro 5.0, BBJ, Perforce and IBM AIX. Software Developer Oneconnect Communication - Toronto, ON July 2006 to September 2006 Canada  Worked for Wholesalers Billing Management System for VoIP communication  Developed an intranet accessing web application of the billing management system and Responded to analyze business requirement, designing enterprise architecture 3-tier specifications and functionalities.  ? Designed and developed form based UI to capture user input and display data return from backend system. Using ASP.NET, Web Forms, Server Controls  ? Designed and developed C# class based business logic objects to process business requirement and communicate with UI components and data access objects  ? Designed and developed data access layer: interacted with database using ADO.NET, SqlDataAdapter/Reader, and Datasets. Created c# class handling data. database and tables  ? Maintained, tested and debugged with black / white box and visual source-safe control tool, resulting in bug-free software    Environment: Microsoft ASP, Visual Studio 2003, .Net Framework, C#.NET, ASP.NET, ADO, Oracle and MS SQL server 2000. Company Representative SanJiaozhou Chemicals Co - Nanhai, CN January 2005 to May 2006 China and Toronto, ON  Performed marketing and strategic research for benzene and client engagement Software Engineer Inspex - Billerica, MA March 2001 to December 2001 USA  Project: data management software DMS  Developed a complex intranet accessing web application for DMS/MES by correlating wafer sort to identify defects earlier and data analysis resulting in fewer defects in chip production. The DMS Vision is a powerful tool in wafer yield management for the semiconductor industry, which reduces the defect rate by 2%.  ? Designed and developed classes and functions to meet customer needs in object oriented methodology OOD / OOA for DMS and PARAMETRIC systems in 3-tier architecture structure  ? Implemented graphic user interface GUI with ActiveX, XML for name object  ? Write SQL/PL SQL query with Oracle  ? Realized data visualization (graphic presentation) with visual C++ / MFC  ? Created, integrated and built release version in Windows NT  ? Maintained, tested and debugged with black / white box and visual source-safe control tool, resulting in bug-free software    Environment: Windows NT, Salaries, Visual Studio, C++, MFC, STL, ODBC, Oracle, PVCS. Software Engineer Assurance Medical Inc - Hopkinton, MA October 2000 to March 2001 USA  Project: medical device BreastView  Developed real-time embedded Software to aid breast cancer screening and detection, while meeting FDA regulations.  ? Designed and developed software by object oriented methodology OOD, OOA, UML  ? Worked with multidisciplinary team including clinic doctors, clinic trial staff, mechanical engineer and electrical engineer  ? Implemented graphic user interface (GUI) in MFC / Visual C++, embedded C/C++  ? Accomplished data mapping visualization from real time data with RS-232 and MS Access  ? Provided interface functions for pressure sensor matrix and hydraulic calibrating device (electromechanical valves and motors )  ? Completed functions based on MatLab simulation, implemented multithread functions for real-time multi-operations  ? Maintained and tested medical instrument Breast-View Software with MS SourceSafe    Environment: MS Visual Studio, MFC, C++, MS Access, COM, Visual source Software Engineer Avicon - Waltham, MA March 2000 to July 2000 USA  Project: Content Management System  Developed Internet-based eBusiness publishing system which handled: management of updating accesses information and interaction with users.  ? Designed database and wrote SQL scripts and store procedures in MS SQL Server  ? Design application based on n-tier architecture using UML methodology, design pattern  ? Performed GUI with Java Swing for web administrator console  ? Implemented dynamic web page with JDBC, JSP / Servlets, JavaBeans, JavaScript, HTML  and DHTML Programmer/Analyst Spags Supply - Shrewsbury, MA October 1999 to March 2000 Project: Enterprise Application Integration (EAI)  Developed middleware for EAI to help companies operate efficiently, avoid unnecessary losses and lower costs.  ? Designed and implemented middleware in Visual Basic for B2B integration.  ? Successfully developed new features for purchase system to enable the acquisition of updated data from suppliers over the Internet.  ? Developed, maintained and tested purchasing and inventory system. Included forms, reports and tables using SQL Server, VB, ADO / DAO, record set, WIN32 API Mechanical Engineer CUA Enterprise - GUANGZHOU, CN 1990 to 1995 China  Designed and tested the condensers, the evaporators, the refrigeration systems and HVAC systems for commercial / industrial environment. Education Master of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science Oklahoma City University - Mississauga, ON Bachelor of Engineering in Refrigeration and Cryogenics of Engineering in Engineering HUAZHONG University of Science and Technology - Wuhan, CN Skills ADO, DATABASE, JDBC, MS ACCESS, ADO.NET, Javascript