Job Seeker Work Experience Ticketing Functional Support - Segerstrom Center for the Arts May 2017 to Present Provide tier 3 issue resolution and troubleshooting for end users of an arts enterprise software.  ? Input and maintenance of complex data sets related to financial transactions.  ? Update event detail pages using HTML and CSS.  ? Identify and track bugs found on company website, SCFTA.org.  ? Perform manual and regression testing on SCFTA.org after version updates to ensure a positive user experience. Ticketing Functional Support - Segerstrom Center for the Arts June 2019 to August 2019 Blog made using MERN stack (MongoDB, Express.js, React.js, Node.js)  ? Implemented authentication for user login using Passport.js  ? Structured database queries for storing user data using MongoDB  ? Tested REST api with Postman and Mocha Implemented 'Admin Ticketing Functional Support - Segerstrom Center for the Arts January 2019 to March 2019 January 2019 - March 2019    Database-backed website used to track monthly and weekly employee recognition awards  ? Designed REST api for admin CRUD operations using Python/Flask  ? Implemented 'Admin user' interface to add, edit, or delete users with React.js  ? Integrated Business Intelligence reporting operations using Chart.js  ? Handled deployment of application to Heroku servers Ticketing Functional Support - Segerstrom Center for the Arts 2018 to December 2018 Weather viewing application to get forecast for a given city around the globe  ? Implemented frontend UI using React.js class components  ? Updated and improved UX with functional components using Hooks  ? Created search functionality that returns up-to-date weather data using API calls (OpenWeatherMap) Software Developer Intern KHN Investment June 2018 to June 2018 Worked closely with management to implement UI features  ? Assisted in automated testing of program updates for application improvements Education B.S. in Computer Science in Databases, Computer Networking Oregon State University September 2016 to March 2019 Skills Git, Html, Javascript, Bootstrap, Node.js, Webpack, Python, Flask, Mysql, Postgresql, Sql, Mongodb, Css, Unix, Sass, Router Links http://linkedin.com/in/alan-macabuhay http://github.com/amac714 Additional Information Programming Skills  Languages  Javascript (ES6), Python, SQL, HTML, CSS, SASS  Frontend  React.js, React-Router, EJS, Handlebars, Bootstrap, Axios, Testing (Mocha, Jest, Chai)  Backend  RESTful APIs, Node.js, Express.js, Flask, MySQL, PostgreSQL, MongoDB  Developer Tools  Git, Postman, Heroku, Babel, Webpack, Unix, Agile