Software Principal Engineer - Full Time <span class="hl">Software</span> Principal Engineer - Full Time Software Principal Engineer - Full Time - Dell Pflugerville, TX • Highly experienced Software Developer who offers excellent functional skills with over 12+  years in analysis, design, Software Development Cycle (SDLC) and implementation of  software solutions.  • Expertise includes gathering and analysis requirements, defining processes, integration  of solutions and design using Object Oriented techniques.  • Experience in a broad range of technical skills including Java Core Application  Development, Object Oriented, Database Design, Shell scripting, SQL development  and networking standards.  • Experience with different integrated development environments (IDEs), Eclipse,  NetBeans, and Delphi.  • Experience building scripts using Perl and Korn Shell.  • Excellent exposure to Production Development Environment.  • Worked with version control tools like GIT, Gradle, ClearCase, ClearQuest, Stash,  Jenkins and version control tools like SourceTree and SmartGit.  • Hands on experience with automatic building systems like Nexus.  • Working knowledge using some web technologies like html, css, javascript and jsp.  • Worked with various frameworks like SNMP4J, CORBA, Hibernate, spring and Struts.  • Ability to work independently, under pressure, multi-task with exceptional attention to  details to meet work deadlines. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Software Principal Engineer - Full Time Dell - Round Rock, TX April 2015 to Present Dell empowers countries, communities, customers and people everywhere to use technology to realize their dreams. Customers trust us to deliver technology solutions that help them do and  achieve more, whether they're at home, work, school or anywhere in their world. Learn more about our story, purpose and people behind our customer-centric approach.    Responsibilities:  • High level design, development and implementation using Java 8  • Involved in bugs recording, bug fixing, code review and other maintenance related tasks.  • GIT is used for repositories control.  • Usage of Gradle for project management and for the purpose of compile, run, deploy and to add external dependencies  • multi-threading involvement for the main application that is used to monitor and retrieve  information from remote elements  • PostgreSQL DB are being used to process information from and to the DB  • Hibernate and Spring Hibernate for manipulating DB and to perform  CRUD operations  • ActiveMQ messaging system was used to redirect information about task and policy  operations.  • Use of Quartz Scheduler for recurrent task scheduling operations.  • Use of Junit and Mockito testing tools were used to write test cases and to mock classes  operations.  • Use of CentOS 7 as the default OS for development  • Usage of Eclipse IDE as the main development environment  • Support for the team members  • Work closely with all other teams for definition of features and new additions to the existing  product  • Search for areas of performance for the product. This can involve a change in an existing  process or the definition of a new one.  • Usage of profiling tools like JProfiler/Visual to identify slow spots in the product and to analyze the usage of CPU/Memory/Heap Memory and how much time a method or  operation takes to complete an action.  • Provide feedback on new or existing features    Technical Environment: GIT 1.9.x, Gradle 2.x, Java 8, Eclipse IDE 5.x, Multi-threading, Agile,  CentOS 7, PostgreSQL, Jenkins, GIT, Hibernate 4.x, Spring DAO, REST Services, Swagger,  Tomcat, ActiveMQ, Junit, JMockit, Quartz Scheduler, JVisualVM, JProfiler 9.1.x. Software Engineer - Contractor SummitWorks Technologies - South Plainfield, NJ September 2014 to March 2015 Software engineer contractor. Assigned to work with different clients and in all cases travel to client location in order to provide them support. Software Engineer - SummitWorks Technologies Contractor Dell - Round Rock, TX October 2014 to January 2015 Dell empowers countries, communities, customers and people everywhere to use technology to realize their dreams. Customers trust us to deliver technology solutions that help them do and  achieve more, whether they're at home, work, school or anywhere in their world. Learn more about our story, purpose and people behind our customer-centric approach.    Dell requires an extensive development for monitor and process information from remove  elements or devices. Its internal application will be interoperating with remote elements and require a middle point for information retrieval and communication between its internal application and the outside world elements.    Responsibilities:  • Design and develop using Java 7 / 8  • Used Maven tool for the Project management and for the purpose of compile, run, deploy  and to add external dependencies  • Involved in bugs recording, bug fixing, code review and other maintenance of the different  agents.  • GIT is used for source control.  • Used multi-threading for the main application that is used to monitor and retrieve  information from remote elements  • Postgre SQL and Round Robin DB are being used to process information from and to the DB  • Use of Hibernate and Spring HibernateDaoTemplate for manipulating DB and to perform CRUD operations  • ActiveMQ messaging system was used to redirect information about task and policy  operations.  • Use of Junit, Mockito and JMockit testing tools were used to write test cases and to mock classes operations.  • Use of CentOS 7 as the default OS for development    Technical Environment: GIT 1.7.x, Maven 3.2.x, Java 7, Eclipse IDE 4.x, Multi-threading, Agile,  CentOS 7, PostgreSQL, RoundRobin, Jenkins, GIT, Maven, Hibernate, Spring DAO, REST  Services, Apache CFX, Swagger, Tomcat, ActiveMQ, Junit, Mockito, JMockit. Sr. Software Developer/Agent Developer NetBoss Technologies - Sebastian, FL November 2006 to June 2014 NetBoss provides an end-to-end portfolio of "Right-Time Correlated Network Analytics" and Operational Support Systems (OSS) solutions that drive Government, Enterprise IT, Utility, and  Communications Service Provider (CSP) profitability by enabling them to proactively monitor,  manage, and monetize their customers, the services they subscribe to, and the networks that  support them. Understand EVERYTHING with NetBoss.Now.    There were different projects to work and all of them were related with the customer and the device for which the customer requires an agent, but principal responsibility is the analysis,  development and integration of monitoring agents. We created such agents using Java in conjunction with other APIs (like Java Core APIs, SNMP4J, NetBoss XT and CORBA API).    Also we compile/build agent code once is completed to generate a set of JARs files that are  installed on the main product named NetBoss XT. This is a MoM and its principal functionality is to maintain and handle agents and all the requests that each agent will receive from remote  network elements. The process of JARs building is accomplished through MAVEN.  The devices types to monitor in a network environment can be different like: Routers, 2G/3G  (Cellular), PBXs, Optical, Microwave, Access, Metro, Ethernet products, WiMAX, etc. In essence  if a device can provide information about its status then it can be monitored by NetBoss XT and we can create and agent for it.    Additionally we prepare documentation in conjunction with the development process. Documents like Design, UI and Acceptance are prepared and presented to the customer once development  and testing of agent is completed.    Responsibilities:  • Developing use cases from business requirement documents and functional specification  and design specification.  • Interacting with customer and vendors in order to gather requirements for some of the agents and devices to convert them to technical designs.  • Design and develop Perl scripts  • Integration of new MIBs to support new devices using MG-SOFT  • Fixing issues with released version of agents  • Modifying testing existing agents  • Modification of existing agents using Java 6/7 Used SQL statements and procedures to fetch the data from the database.  • JDBC and Hibernate were used to manipulate data from Oracle DB.  • Work closely with field team to identify issues related with existing agent implementations  • Involved in bugs recording, bug fixing, code review and other maintenance of the different  agents.  • Initially Rational Clear Case was used for version control, but then it was moved to use  Stash and GIT  • Used Maven tool for the Project management and for the purpose of compile, run, deploy  and to add external dependencies  • Used TDD for testing the monitoring agents  • Used Java FileStreams, Parsing, Enums and Tokenizing during internal operations  with files and within some of the project classes.  • Generation of user documentation like Design and UI Documents.  • Used multi-threading  • Used JIRA for bug tracking and management    Technical Environment: GIT 1.7.x, Maven 3.2.x, ClearCase 7.1.2, JIRA, Java 6/7, Perl 5.8,  KSH, Eclipse IDE 3.x/4.x, NetBoss XT API 3.6/3.7, JDBC, Hibernate, Oracle DB 9i,  SQLDeveloper 3/4, Multi-threading, SNMP, TCP/IP, CORBA, TL1, Windows Server 2003, Solaris  11, Manage.IT Parsing Commands, Bamboo, MG-SOFT 13. Developer Fetasa Tijuana SA de CV June 2006 to October 2006 Fetasa Tijuana is one of the largest construction material providers in the Tijuana area. As well  they have other stores located in the northwest and south of México. This company starts as a small business and become to grow exponentially in the coming years.    Responsibilities:  • Work closely with the ERP implementation team. Protheus ERP was being implemented  on the company, to control all internal operations, like sales, administration, accounting,  baking, etc.  • Perform certain development inside of the ERP to meet FETASA requirements in terms  of materials control and product inventory, this also includes reports design and ERP  kernel builds for both environments TEST and PRODUCTION  • DB2 Database administration  • Development of testing tools using Java 6 and Swing.  • ERP Protheus development using ADBPL.  • ERP Reports design/creation/implementation  • ERP Kernel modules compilations/build  • Building reports using ADBPL. These reports are further implemented on Production  system  • Used DB2 SQL statements and procedures to fetch the data from the database.    Technical Environment: DB2 Manager, ADBPL, Putty, Veritas Backup, Suse Linux, Windows  Server 2000, Protheus ERP, Java 6, Swing. Application Software Developer Grupo Unisistemas de Tijuana February 2004 to June 2006 Grupo Unisistemas is one of the largest providers of software to control all sales and purchasing  operations. This software is called Genezys, and it was primarily focused for company purchasing  areas.    Responsibilities:  • Perform analysis and coding for new modules or to existing ones  • Generation of reports and software development/integration  • Perform bug fixes as they are required depending on the priority level assigned by a field  analyst  • Integration of new reports as they are required by existing customers  • Integration of new modules into system and separation of existing one in DLLs files to reduce the size of main executable for GENEZYS PURCHASING SYSTEM  • Generation of high level design and implementation documents  • Work closely with field analyst/integrator to gather all the suggestions and changes that  could be benefit for the system and thus for the end users  • Used Microsoft SQLServer statements and procedures to fetch the data from the database.    Technical Environment: Delphi IDE/API 7, Microsoft SQLServer 2000, RemObjects, Windows  Server 2000. Technical Support Grupo Farmacéutico de Tijuana October 2003 to January 2004 GFT is one of the largest providers of generic medicine in Tijuana. Additionally they represent  different laboratories in Mexico for health product sale.    Technical support for all users and the different areas of the company also administration tasks  were performed for Windows Servers and RedHat Linux Servers.  Mostly IT user support on all kind of IT issues of the existing users also everyday backup, NT  Servers Administration and Support in Oracle financials software that was being implemented at that time.    Everyday maintenance and checkup was performed for al RedHat Linux servers configured  (SAMBA, FTP and EMAIL) to ensure everything was Ok. Same operation/verification was applied  to Windows Servers.    Responsibilities:  • Perform everyday backup of the servers on site  • Perform everyday backup of the Oracle database  • Attend all company users in some of the technical issues they might have  • IT Support for all areas in the company    Technical Environment: RedHat Linux 7, Microsoft SQLServer 2000, Samba, Server Admin  Cygwin, SSH, SFTP, RDP, Vnc Education Masters in Strategic Management in Software Engineer in Strategic Management Universidad Europea del Atlántico 2016 to Present Bachelor's Degree in Information Technology in Information Technology Instituto Tecnologico De Tijuana 1996 to 2001 Skills ECLIPSE (10+ years), JAVA (10+ years), HIBERNATE (10+ years), DATABASE (10+ years), Git (10+ years) Additional Information Technical Skills:    Languages Java 6/7/8, Delphi 7, ColdFusion 5.0, PHP  Scripting Language(s) Perl 5.6/5.8, Korn Shell, Bash Shell  Java Technologies Swing, JDBC, SNMP4J, CORBA 2.x, JSF, Java Collections  J2EE/JEE Technologies JSP, Servlets, REST WEB Services, Apache CFX  Web Technologies HTML, JavaScript, XML, CSS  Application Servers Apache, Tomcat  Database Applications Oracle, SQL Server 2000, MySQL, PostgreSQL, Mongo DB, PL/SQL, SQL  Frameworks/Middle ware Hibernate 3.0, Struts 1.3, Spring Framework, Spring DAO  Build and Test Tools Maven, JIRA, FindBugs, Junit, Mockito, JMockit, PMD, Jenkins  IDEs Eclipse 3.x/4.x, NetBeans 6/7/8, Delphi IDE  Version Control Stash, GIT, Clear Case 7.1/7.1.2/7.1.2, Clear Quest, Jira  Other Tool(s) Log4j, RemObjects, JacOrb, NetBoss XT MoM, NetBoss XT Framework  3.6/3.7, MGSOFT, SQL Developer, NetBoss Manage.IT parsing commands,  JVM Tuning, Tokenizing, FileStreams control, Java Enums, Parsing and  Formatting, TDD, Agile Scrum, Active MQ, JProfiler, JVisualVm  Operating System(s) Unix, Linux, Windows, Solaris  Protocols TCP/IP, HTPP, SOAP/WSDL, FTP, SNMP, SMTP