Growth Mgmt Growth Mgmt Growth Mgmt Work Experience Growth Mgmt Group Inc - Fenton, MI November 2018 to June 2019 Position:  Software Developer - Implemented, Designed, Upgraded and Supported various web portals with the following technologies. PHP v5.x, Typescript, different versions of MySQL, PDO, JQuery, JQuery data tables, HTML 5, Bootstrap, Knockout JS, VueJS, PostgreSQL, CSS, Webpack, Node Modules, Vanilla JavaScript, VScode and PHPstorm IDE's, Bit Bucket Source Mgmt, Git repos. Also used tools such as Dev Tools to ensure that code was loading efficiently. Software Developer/Project Lead Lawn Care.com start up - Howell, MI January 2017 to November 2018 Worked with developers and stakeholders toward their goal of developing a new platform for managing lawn care businesses in the digital age. My responsibilities included designing digital media and potential architectures using various technologies such as Adobe Products ( Photoshop, Illustrator, InDesign), Angular, Typescript, SQL, CSS, React, VueJS, Vanilla JavaScript, jQuery, Reactive Native, MongoDB. Software Developer/Project Lead Great Expressions - Southfield, MI January 2016 to January 2017 Southfield, MI.    Great Expressions Dental Centers provide access to affordable dental care delivering both quality and convenience with over 500 doctors and 300 dental locations across the United States.    Position:  Software Developer/Project Lead - Maintained, extended and managed all web coding activities across three portals. The client's portal, the physician's portal and corporate web site. Duties included but not limited to drafting of requirements, implementing requirements and ensuring quality through the entire software lifecycle to deliverables. More specifically used ASP.NET 4.5, SQL Server 12, CSS, jQuery, Bootstrap, Vanilla JS, WCF services, C#, XML, Razor, Master Pages with object oriented programming designs such as repository, façade, singleton and other gang of four design patterns. Software Developer/Project Lead Trescal Inc - Hartland, MI July 2014 to January 2016 Hartland, MI.  Global specialists in calibration Trescal provide a broad range of services for the test and measuring equipment market. Trescal is represented in 17 countries. Trescal services 28,000 customers in various sectors such as Defense, Aerospace, Aeronautics, Automotive, Power Generation & Utilities, Electronics Manufacturing, Communications and Medical & Chemistry    Position:  Software Developer/Project Lead - Assisted in the development of digital media assets and several proprietary corporate applications for use across North America using the following technologies: Adobe Products ( Photoshop, Illustrator, InDesign), ASP Classic, ASP.NET v1.1, ASP.NET 2.0, ASP.NET 4.5. SQL Server 12, SQL Server lite, HTML5, JavaScript, jQuery, Sybase, Metcal integration.VB 6, VB.NET, VB script, C#, CSS etc.. Designed and implemented their on-site web based equipment management system that integrated with their desktop software. Managed and provided technical documentation for work flow processes regarding the launch of, and training for, the flagship software package I developed and launched across more than 8 states. Also provided lots of Database programming, Reporting and other department related activities. Consultant Howell, MI November 2010 to 2014 Position:  Software Developer/Business Analysis - Provided clients with Digital Media assets business models, web presence and other software related tools to forecast, deliver their services to larger audiences and increase demographic reach. All with a high degree of feedback using the latest technologies such as Angular, SQL Server, , HTML5, JavaScript, jQuery and Adobe Products ( Photoshop, Illustrator, InDesign). SQL Server Created reporting admin area CBW - Sarasota, FL November 2004 to 2010 Sarasota, FL.    Extended the company's website. Facilitated customization of systems by encouraging the team to adopt emerging standards for software application development architecture and tools. Front-end development with HTML, SPA's, etc SQL Server Created reporting admin area for both the Intranet and Internet site. Overall maintenance and development of site.    Position:  Software Developer /Project Lead - Front-End Technologies and Full Stack Development. Software Engineer/Project Lead Nurseweek Publishing - Sunnyvale, CA March 2001 to February 2004 Sunnyvale, CA.  A national healthcare publication that offers industry news, community services, jobs, and continuing education for nurses and other healthcare practitioners.  Position:  Software Engineer/Project Lead - Developed intra-departmental workflow processes that facilitated print production performance and integration. Extended their website to interface with clients through custom online portals. Managed web campaigns and other promotional activities. Founder Mi-Tec Solutions Inc - Sarasota, FL March 1998 to August 2001 Sarasota, Fl.    Internet Development Company with the mission of providing companies the most effective web presence. Our model included web design, Internet strategies, web development, CMS websites, e Commerce websites, custom web applications, Internet marketing, brand enhancement and other digital media.  Position: Founder Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science University of Southern Florida - Tampa, FL Skills Database, Sql server, Sql server 2005, Mysql, Postgresql, Sql, Sybase, .net, Visual studio, C#, Front-end, Html, Javascript, Node.js, Typescript, Silverlight, Php, Vb.net, Visual basic, Xml Additional Information ? 18 years of experience in all stages of Software Development and Application Life-Cycle, from concept and development through quality assurance (QA) and Performance Tuning.  ? Extensive knowledge and on-hands experience in Information Architecture, Web Design, Business Analysis, Project Management, and Testing.  ? Highly versed in Web 2.0 concepts with skills in creating websites with Social Networking, Gamification with a Responsive layouts for multiple screen sizes.  ? In-depth understanding of latest Internet technologies and practices to optimization and maximize site performance.  ? Proven background in Large-Scale Application Implementations with effective Business Solutions, Superior communication, Analytical, and Interpersonal skills.    TECHNICAL SKILLS    Current Active Research with the following technologies:    Machine Learning - supervised, unsupervised and reinforcement learning  Big Data - the four big V's; volume velocity variety veracity    Proficient In the following technologies:  Microsoft Technologies - VB.NET, C#, ASP.NET, .NET Frameworks (1.0 - 4.5), Azure Visual Studio, Entity Framework, MEF, TFS, Silverlight, f12 Developer Tools, SQL Server Database, Server Controls. etc  Microsoft Architectures - N-Tier Development, (SOA) Service-oriented Architecture  Languages - JAVA, JavaScript, AJAX, XML, HTML, XHTML, CSS, C#, Visual Basic, VB.NET, PHP  Technology Stacks -  WISA (Windows Server, IIS, SQL Server 2005/2008/2012/2014, ASP.NET),  MEAN (MongoDB, Express, Angular, NodeJS),  LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, PHP)  Mobile Platforms - Android, iOS, Windows    Graphics - Adobe Products ( Photoshop, Illustrator, InDesign), Spritesmith, Paper.js  High performance JavaScript Techniques - Unobtrusive JavaScript, DOM Manipulation in JS Land, Loading and execution, Paint and Re-flow, Buffers, for loops, and more  Website Design Techniques - Responsive, Adaptive, Fluid, Progressive Enhancement, Mobile First, Table Less design using CSS Front-End Architectures - MVC, MVVM, MVP (passive and supervisor), MV*  JavaScript Frameworks - TypeScript, Node.js, React, VueJS, Popular JavaScript Libraries - Ember.js, Knockout.js, Backbone.js, Angularjs, Underscore, Lo-Dash, Rxjs, Jquery, JQuery UI, Modernizr, Selectivizr  Templates - Handlebars, Jade, Mustache, and more  Cascade Style Sheet Framework - SASS/COMPASS, LESS, Normalize.css, Reset.css  Modules - AMD, CommonJS, Browserify  HTML5 - Web Workers, Local Storage, Semantic Tags, Data Attributes, Audio, Video and more  CMS Development - Word Press (Theme/Plugin Design), Magento E Commerce (Theme/Plugin Design)  Databases - SQL Server, Sybase, PostgreSQL, MySQL, MongoDB, Datomic  Application Tool Chains - Yeoman(Yo, Grunt, Bower), Maven  Software Testing - Junit, Jasmine, Google Dev Tools, PhantomJS, Casper, BrowserStack  Social Networks - Twitter, G+, Meetup, Facebook, LinkedIn, Pinterest