Senior Mainframe Developer Senior Mainframe <span class="hl">Developer</span> Mainframe Application Programmer - Daimler Trucks North America Beaverton, OR • Mainframe Application Programmer with 12 years of experience in developing, maintaining, supervising and supporting mainframe legacy applications.  • Developed transactions which uses front end UI(JAVA, .Net) and backend mainframe transactions, to re-use and retain core logic in legacy while giving user a modern UI..  • Extensive experience in design, coding testing and implementing in COBOL, JCL, CICS, IMS DB DC, DB2 and VSAM. Good grasp on MPP/BMP, Batch and Online System of Mainframe.  • Extensive experience in analysis, design, development, unit testing, UAT and deployment cycles of mainframe development.  • Experience in proposing solution for business requirement and driving project from scratch to support the requirement.  • Performed pivotal roles to improve the efficiency of the mainframe team as well as the business operations.  • Tuned DB2 queries used by web front end which improved the response time considerably. Got appreciation from client for the same.  • Worked on POC for UI modernization of legacy application.  • Working directly with business users and understanding their requirements from the new system.  • Represented business flows, using Activity Diagrams, and Data Flow Diagrams (DFD) using MS Visio for Automotive and Manufacturing Application for use post implementation of project.  • Handling deployment coordination activities between different team i.e business and other technical deployment teams to take care of our project deployments which includes web, mainframe and database components.   • Excellent Inter-personal skills and a quick learner. Ability to get along with the team well, and can handle client issues at all stages of the development process.  • Have managed project through all phases right from Requirement analysis, design, coding, System testing, UAT along with customer communication.  • Excellent communication skill with an ability to build professional relationships with peers and superiors, and work comfortably with both business and technical professionals.  • Domain expertise in Automotive, Manufacturing and Healthcare.  • Experience in Agile as well as Waterfall model of SDLC.  • Individual Awards for outstanding performances at organization level (TOS client award in Golden category, Champion Award, Spot Awards).. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Senior Mainframe Developer Daimler Trucks North America - Portland, OR November 2014 to Present ·  Work with web team and created online mainframe programs (transactions), which would be called via .NET and Java front end.  ·  Create Test cases, Unit testing and design specifications for mainframe online and batch programs (transactions) using IMS DB, COBOL and DB2.  ·  Project Estimations, Create and maintain Project related documents.   ·  Customer deliveries, Cross technical and Cross module trainings.  ·  Team Building activities, SLA Reporting and Meetings with Customer.  ·  Offshore and Onsite co-ordination and facilitation to the entire team to develop new interfaces as per technical specification and handling the deliveries without any defects.  ·  Interaction with clients to understand processes/requirement from business perspective.   ·  Work on a multiple projects CBN (Create Build New orders), VQP (Virtual processing Quotes), MBU (mass backlog updates), PWL (Pricing worklist), IQM(Interface Quote management), NWS(New Order status) for Daimler Trucks North America (Freightliner/Thomas Build buses/ western star) on enhancing the current system. Web enabled many transactions for different .net and Java Applications. Working on core applications like new Order processing, sales Concessions.  ·  Wrote mainframe batch programs to nightly data processing.  ·  Suggested few other performance improvement ideas, which greatly helped improving the system experience.  ·  New Transactions/Modify IMS transactions to meet UI needs. These transactions is being called by .NET UI, JAVA Applications.   ·  Meeting with business users and understanding their requirement.  ·  Analyze mainframe existing process and create technical specification for offshore team. Created table definition for the projects as per the requirement. Senior Software Engineer Humana - Pune, Maharashtra February 2010 to November 2014 Roles and Responsibilities:  • Medicare CI- Development Project consist of Mainframe (COBOL, JCL, DB2, VSAM, TSO/ISPF, SPUFI, QMF, CA Panvalet, CA Platinum, Abend aid, File aid, Easytieve).  • Worked in Agile Methodology. Responsible for Analysis, Design and daily updates in standup meetings.  • Involved in meetings with Client to collect requirements and Preparation of understanding document.  • Worked on high level design, low level design of the new requirements.  • Preparation of job flow, program flow of the existing system.  • Preparation of project status report.  • Involved in peer review of code and unit test results, SIT, UAT Phases.  • Logged defects in the SQUIDS (Humana Tool for defects logging).  • Worked in Development, Maintenance and Support, Responsible for picking up Incident/Problem/Change order tickets from Service desk and getting them resolved.  • Automated various manual Processes to generate reports for Business.  • Worked with front end application team to tune the performance.  • Resolved incidents/ tickets and provided RCA. Software Engineer HCL Tech - Chennai, Tamil Nadu February 2007 to January 2010 Roles and Responsibilities:  • Aegon Health insurance Project consist of Mainframe (COBOL, JCL, DB2, VSAM, TSO/ISPF, SPUFI, QMF, Panvalet, Platinum, Abend aid, File aid, Xpeditor), .Net, BPM technologies.  • Worked in Onshore-offshore model(SDLC).  • Team Lead of 3 developers at Offshore.  • Requirements collection with the coordination of onsite coordinator.  • Review team development work.  • Involved managing the whole project deliveries from offshore, create monthly reports and handle quality audits.  • Worked on Enhancement and Development programs of insurance Modules.  • Handled production issues, Support Request, Job Monitoring, Analysis and Implementation.  • Ensure that each deliverable source codes adhere to the client supplied standards.  • Prepared test cases to test all the functionality as expected.  • Test the programs based on the test cases prepared. Education Bachelor of Engineering in Electronics and Telecommunication BAMU University - Aurangabad, Maharashtra August 2001 to March 2005 Skills Cobol (10+ years), JCL (10+ years), VSAM (10+ years), IMS DB (4 years), CICS (2 years), Db2 (10+ years), Panvalet (4 years), changeman (4 years) Certifications/Licenses DB2 Fundamental Certification