Senior Software Engineer Senior <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Senior Software Engineer Davenport, FL Seeking Software Development Position  • Experienced candidate with multiple skills that span desktop applications as well as mobile and embedded systems.  • Proven ability to work in teams or individually on projects small and large.  • Proficient in implementing and debugging applications using Java 8 and Android studio.  • Skills to design and implement microservices using scripting languages such as javascript along with tools such as Node.JS  • Previous Military Experience, US ARMY Work Experience Senior Software Engineer Nokia Technologies - Sunnyvale, CA March 2011 to June 2018 California    I worked for Nokia Tech which was a consumer facing R&D department at Nokia. I stayed with them until they ceased operation in the summer of 2018.  ? Developed in Android environment on IOS as well as Windows and Linux  ? JRE and JDK version 8 (built into Android SDK Tools)  ? Setup Git repositories for projects  ? Worked with the Jenkins code review tools  ? Worked in an Agile Environment  ? Created and shipped Z Launcher home screen replacement  ? Built visualization applications using Unity 3D  ? Created an automated Kiosk for Virtual Reality recordings using Node.js services  ? Integration of activity tracking devices into Android applications Developer Support Specialist Symbian Foundation - Foster City, CA March 2010 to March 2011 I worked as a developer support specialist for 1 year at Symbian until they ceased operations.    ? Maintain and update the Symbian SDK for mobile devices  ? Support customers by helping with application development  ? Support online community by creating sample code for common issues  ? Aid customers on site with classes on using the tools for Symbian Flaii Inc - Sunnyvale, CA October 2008 to November 2010 Flaii was a start-up company that was developing an OpenGL 3D based online community. I was the lead software engineer while supervising 1 other engineer. I remained with them until their funding was exhausted in November 2010  Used C++ and OpenGL to create a 3D space  Game engine programming  Microsoft Visual Studio development  OGRE 3D utilization within the application  Managed a remote set of 3 engineers to help when we were under tight time constraints Software Engineer Google - Mountain View, CA October 2004 to August 2008 I moved to Google with the team from Keyhole. We were the founding members of Keyhole which is now known as Google Earth. I remained at Google for 4 years, and left to move on to more interesting projects as Google Earth had become more of a maintenance and bug fixing project  Created and maintained installer using Install Shield, then oversaw the conversion to a standard MSI install process which allowed custom install packages so partners could be tracked  Worked on Google Earth, in various areas such as installation, GUI design and implementation, networking protocols, and 3D Graphics. Most programming was done in C++  Maintained and updated Google Earth UI using the cross platform QT UI system.  Created the first Google Earth plugin to take KML 3D files and render on the Google Earth satellite view  Created and launched the first free version of Google Earth to a large audience  Scripted installers to install extra features for versions of Google Earth Pro/LT/Free  Organized special guest speakers and celebrity visits to the Google campus. Some tech related, some for the morale of other employees Lead Developer Keyhole Inc - Sunnyvale, CA March 2002 to August 2004 Keyhole was the company that eventually became the Google Earth/Maps tools that exist today. At Keyhole, we were a much smaller team of 3 engineers who added features and tools for customers as needed.  Converted the Keyhole codebase UI from an integrated Windows OpenGL specific code to an easier to handle modular model.  C++ development using Microsoft Visual Studio tools.  QT integration and rewrite of the Original Keyhole code to allow modular and features to be enabled/disabled by server requests and based on a registration key  Worked on site with CNN as needed, as they were one of our biggest customers, and preferred to use the application live on TV. Education Bachelor in Program Computer Science Rochester Institute of Technology Computer science Herkimer County Community College Skills Android studio, Application development, Application programming, Arduino, C++, Object oriented, Svn, Android, Html5, Ios, Java, Unity 3d, Linux, Object oriented design, Jira, Deployment, Wiring, Cnc, Cnc machines, Robotics, Google, Android Sdk, Git Links http://www.westhierry.net Assessments Critical Thinking — Highly Proficient July 2019 Using logic to solve problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/hyikfq9fysvwmfwq Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.