Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer - EarthSoft Inc Cedar City, UT Proficient JavaScript developer with experience in AngularJS, C#, and Node.js.    Applicable Experience and Skills  Interpersonal Communication  ? Highly motivated professional with varied experience and background in web development and programming.  ? Able to flexibly understand and apply programming principles in order to properly implement code according to the needs of various applications.  ? Very detail oriented, organized, thorough, and dedicated, with proven professionalism, judgement, and character.  ? Experience in clear, direct verbal and written communication skills.  ? Adept at recognizing needs, finding solutions and working well with others.  ? Able to learn new things quickly.  ? Able to manage time and work efficiently working remotely by utilizing communication software like Skype, GoToMeeting and git.    Technical  ? Experience building and publishing websites.  ? Language proficiencies: JavaScript, Node.js, AngularJS, C#, VB, MySQL, HTML5, CSS3, jQuery.  ? Code design proficiencies: RESTful API, OOP, functional programming.  ? Development Tools include: MAMP, WAMP, Visual Studio, VS Code, Photoshop, FileZilla.  ? Motivated individual achiever that can teach myself necessary skills. For example, I started my own business and taught myself to use a CNC router to cut products for my clients. Work Experience Software Developer EarthSoft Inc - Pensacola, FL 2016 to Present I started writing code for my business website in 2011 using PHP, mySql, and JS. I loved it so much i decided to make it my carrier. Since then I've learned a number of languages and skills with a desire to keep learning. I currently work for the world leader in environmental data management software. I've been the key contributor in developing their latest collection software called Enterprise Collect Business Owner/Operator Woodchips Chest - Logan, UT 2011 to 2016 Operator Schreiber Foods - Logan, UT 2007 to 2016 Achievements and Additional Leadership Experiences  EarthSoft Inc.  Served a major role in creation of new application, on both the front end and back end.  Woodchips Chest  Started, and ran business for 5 years. I worked with clients to fulfill orders and meet their needs. I built and maintained website from scratch using PHP and vanilla JavaScript. Created desktop Node.js application to manage inventory.  The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints  Served as a missionary, volunteering two years of time. While serving in leadership positions, I coordinated efforts of other missionaries, and resolved concerns between those for whom I was responsible Education Certificate Bridgerland Applied Technology College July 2015 Skills C# (2 years), Javascript (7 years), AngularJS (2 years), Node.js (3 years), CSS, MYSQL, Git, PHP, ASP, CSS, HTML 5, MYSQL, Git, Jquery