Senior SQL/MSBI Consultant Senior SQL/MSBI Consultant Senior SQL/MSBI Consultant - J.Knipper&Co Somerset, NJ ? Having 11+ years of IT experience in database design, administration, development and support of Microsoft SQL Server 2005/2008/12/14/16 in various business domains like Financial, Investment Banking and Pharma/Healthcare.  ? Extensive experience in Microsoft Business Intelligence technologies:MS SQL Server Integration Services(SSIS), MS SQL Server Reporting Services(SSRS) and MS SQL Server Analysis Services(SSAS).  ? Expertise in SQL Server Optimization by using SQL Profiler, Index Tuning Wizard, Database Tuning Advisor and Query Execution Plans.  ? Performed SQL DBA tasks like database logical and physical design, maintenance, tuning, archiving, backups and optimization for SQL Server database.  ? Expertise in writing T-SQL queries, dynamic queries, sub-queries and complex joins for generating complex stored procedures, triggers, user-defined functions, views and cursors.  ? Strong knowledge in Power BI to import data from various sources such as SQL Server, Azure SQL DB, SQL Server Analysis Services (Tabular Model), MS Excel etc.,  ? Good experience in developing the table and matrix reports using SSRS and scheduling reports weekly and monthly basis as per the client requirement.  ? Responsible for the development of SSIS packages to automate intra-day, EOD jobs and expertise in enhancing, debugging and deploying of SSIS packages from development to production server using SSIS catalog.  ? Proficient knowledge of Data warehouse methodologies and concepts, including star schemas, snowflakes schemas, dimensional modeling ,maintenance and optimization of OLAP cubes and data sets in SSAS.  ? Expertise in designing and developing applications using ASP.NET, ADO.NET, Enterprise Library, C#.NET, SQL Server2008/2012, Web services, SOAP, HTML 4/5, XML, CSS,Java Script, Web Forms.  ? Working knowledge of UNIX,Autosys and Shell scripting. Work Experience Senior SQL/MSBI Consultant J.Knipper&Co - Somerset, NJ August 2018 to Present J. Knipper & Company, Inc. provides fully integrated direct marketing and fulfillment services exclusively for the pharmaceutical and healthcare industries. Knipper Fulfillment Information System (KFIS) does the fulfillment process of the samples according to the business rules provided by the clients.  Responsibilities:  • Responsible for stored procedures optimization, performance tuning and index tuning.  • Created T-SQL stored procedures, views, triggers, sub-queries, joins, scheduling jobs and alerting using SQL Server agent.  • Created and supported SSIS packages, which involved a variety of transformations such as look up, Aggregate, Derived Column, Conditional Split, Multicast, Union All, Merge, Merge Join, and Data Conversion before loading the data into Data Warehouse.  • Implemented custom logging, auditing and custom email notifications using SSIS 2012, performing Unit Testing the SSIS packages with respect to its flow and performance issues and using C# .net code.  • Created generic FTP and Email packages as the custom packages for reusability and optimization of packages and implemented SFTP packages using COZYROCK controls.  • Implemented Custom scripting in SSIS packages using C#.Net.  • Provide support to the business during day-to-day activities and ad-hoc requests    Technologies: MS SQL Server 2014/2016, SSIS 2012, Reporting Services 2012 OLTP, T-SQL, MS Excel, C#.NET, SQL profiler, SQL configuration Tools. Senior SQL/MSBI Consultant Sudler & Hennessey - Township of Warren, NJ October 2017 to August 2018 The Electronic Meeting Management Application (eMMa) is web-based Speaker Bureau Management System which provides a central database of information for the companies and their sales force to schedule meetings for, and receive reports about, their contracted speakers.  Responsibilities:  • Analyze production support issues to determine root cause and provides fix recommendations to the development team  • Support applications in production. Note interruptions or bugs in operation and perform problem solving exercise to determine problem and ensure continued use of the application  • Extensively used Joins and sub-Queries to simplify complex queries involving multiple tables and optimized the procedures and triggers to be used in production.  • Scheduling and monitoring ETL processes using DTS exec utilities and batch files.  • Designed SSIS packages, enhanced existing packages by using Pivot Transformation, Lookup, Derived columns, Conditional Split, Aggregate, Execute SQL and Dataflow Task etc. to extract data from different heterogeneous sources.  • Implemented custom logging, auditing and custom email notifications using SSIS 2012, performing Unit Testing the SSIS packages with respect to its flow and performance issues and using C# .net code.  • Conducted code review.    Technologies: MS SQL Server 2014, SSIS 2012, Reporting Services 2012 OLTP, T-SQL, MS Excel, C#.NET, SQL profiler, SQL configuration Tools. MSSQL/MSBI Developer German Bank - New York, NY July 2016 to September 2017 LBBW Soft is an application which deals with Accounting, Loans, Risk Management, HR etc modules of the clients. This application targeted to MS Access 2003 which is migrated to .Net framework, WPF, Prism technologies. The Database objects which are running in MS Access 2003 are migrated to SQL server 2008 to which the new .Net application targeting.  Responsibilities:  • Responsible for the database migration of the legacy LBBW Soft application developed in MS Access 2003, SQL Server 2008 R2 to .NET 4.5, Prism and SQL Server 2014.  • Developed T-SQL query, stored procedures and functions to retrieve data for reporting.  • Loaded flat files (4GB) data into database using SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS) after applying various transformations like Lookup, Merge, Join, Aggregation, Derived column, Data Conversion, Script Task etc.  • Rebuilding Indexes and Tables as part of Performance Tuning Exercise.  • Created Audit tables, loggings, Error handling to maintain data quality while loading into data warehouse using SSIS 2008/2012.  • Ftp'ing the Head Office files from the remote location and load the data in the database Using FTP task in SSIS.  • Design/develop complex queries efficiently as per the given business requirements.  • Developed Reports in the form of Matrix, Table and Chart using MS SQL Server Reporting Services 2012 (SSRS).  • Analyzed various business requirements to provide estimates for all SDLC phases (Analysis, Design, Coding, Implementation, SIT, UAT, and Production Move).    Technologies: MS SQL Server 2008R2/2012/2014, SSIS 2008/2012, Reporting Services 2012 OLTP, T-SQL, MS Excel, C#.NET, SQL profiler, SQL Server Configuration Tools. SQL Server Developer #4 Goldman Sachs - Salt Lake City, UT September 2013 to June 2016 PWM (Private wealth management) is a unit in Goldman Sachs which deals with managing the wealth of the clients and the investments related to it. The scope of the project is to support and develop database objects of different applications like Payment processing, Client Reporting, Billing, Loans etc.  Responsibilities:  • Lead the team of developers and assisted them in the analysis and debugging of application issues quickly and effectively. This includes the development of new applications or modifications to existing applications.  • Set-up SQL jobs to load the data daily into Datawarehouse objects related to multiple modules.  • Enhanced the performance of Data warehouse using Execution Plan and SQL Profiler to optimize queries.  • Created SSIS packages, including lookups, derived columns, data conversions, aggregations, conditional splits, SQL tasks, script tasks, send mail tasks and FTP tasks for file transfer.  • Worked on creating different Reports like Drill through Dashboard Reports, Drill down Report, Matrix Reports, Sub Reports, Ad hoc Reports, Tabular Reports, and Chart Reports.  • Created database tables, views, stored procedures, functions and triggers as required.  • Used SQL Profiler for Performance monitor to resolve dead locks and long running queries by checking appropriate changes to Transaction Isolation levels.    Technologies: MS SQL Server 2008, MS BIDS, T-SQL, SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS), SSAS 2008R2, MS Excel, .NET framework 4.0, Windows XP/2003. Software Developer #5 UBS - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2011 to August 2013 UBS AG is a Swiss global financial services company headquartered in Basel and Zurich, Switzerland, which provides investment banking, asset management, and wealth management services for private, corporate, and institutional clients worldwide. The scope of the project is to production support of the EOD batch involved of multiple applications.  Responsibilities:  • Responsible for managing batch processing including setting up Autosys scheduler and maintaining/enhancing existing batch applications using shell scripts, Perl scripts in UNIX.  • Responsible for incident management from job monitoring to root-cause analysis to issues resolution. Coordinated with the responsible parties identifying issues, logging and tracking issues, conducting team meetings for implementing fixes and communicating status to all tactical teams and management.  • Performed proactive sanity EOD checks for production environment to ensure availability of various systems and data within the agreed service level agreement.  • Responsible for L1/L2 support of EOD batch cycle such as monitoring batch jobs, providing on-call support, analyzing job failures, fixing bugs/job failures, and performing batch tuning.    Technologies: SQL Server 2008, Autosys, JIRA and UNIX .NET Developer SAGIA - Hyderabad, Telangana December 2009 to April 2011 SAGIA SMART Service Center (SSC) offers Investors, Residents and Non-residents in the Economic Cities within Saudi Arabia a single-window access to Government services, Business services, Municipality services, Residents services and Non-residents services.  Responsibilities:  • Developed and implemented Web Forms using ASP.NET and coded the business logic in C#.  • Developed WCF services to be used by ASP.NET applications.  • Used JavaScript and .NET validation controls for performing client-side validations.  • Configured security features for the application using Form Based Authentication and Role Based Authorization using C# and ASP.NET.  • Developed the web application in ASP.Net3.5 using Master Page, Themes & skins to maintain the consistent look and feel throughout the application.  • Designed and developed Web Services to synchronize data from remote application database to online Database.    Technologies: .NET Framework 3.5, ASP.NET 3.5, IIS 7.0, ADO.Net, C#, HTML, WCF, Visual Studio 2008, Oracle. .NET Developer #7 Master Dialer - Hyderabad, Telangana January 2008 to October 2009 This Product is used for call center Dialer. We can get the data from the server and sending the details to the server. There are mainly three stages. In the first stage, we are getting the inbound calls from customer. So we know who are in line other end and other details.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in designing and development of Inbound and Outbound modules.  • Developed and consumed Web Services to extract information from the database and other services.  • Used various advanced Server Controls and developed Custom Controls.  • Provided database connectivity using ADO.Net and created procedures, Indexes and Triggers using MS SQL Server 2005.  • Used T-SQL to examine the database information.    Technologies: .NET Framework 3.0, Visual Studio 2005, ASP.Net, C#, Web services, ADO.Net, XML, HTML, JavaScript, SQL Server 2005, T-SQL, CSS, IIS, Visual Source Safe. Education Bachelor of Technology in E.E.E JNTU Hyderabad - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2004 Skills Oracle, Sql, .net, Api, C#, Html, .net framework 2.0, Wcf, Scripting, Vbscript, Xml, Team foundation server, Ajax, Asp, Css, Asp.net, Shell scripting, Java, jquery, Crystal reports Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/vijay-inumella-61911916 Additional Information TECHNICAL PROFICIENCIES:  Databases: SQL Server2008R2/2012/2014/2016, MS-Access, Oracle 8i  .Net Technologies: .Net Framework 2.0/3.5/4.0/4.5, C#, WCF, LINQ  Web: ASP.NET, HTML, AJAX, Web-Services, Web API  Scripting: XML, CSS, Java Script, VBScript, jQuery, Shell scripting  Tools: SSIS, MS Reporting Services 2008/2012, Crystal Reports, Autosys  Versioning Tools: Visual Source Safe (VSS), Team Foundation Server (TFS), GitHub