Designer, Developer, Architect Designer, <span class="hl">Developer</span>, Architect Designer, Developer, Architect - Rance Enterprises Aurora, CO Work Experience Designer, Developer, Architect Rance Enterprises - Colorado Springs, CO July 2006 to Present * Developing custom software solutions for various clients. Typically 3-tier architectures consisting of a WinForms MVC-patterned GUI, a business rule driven middle tier and a database/transaction server back end. Design patterns and multi-threading are pervasive in my typical solutions and are implemented in the C# language.  * Currently developing in Visual Studio 2013 using .Net 4.5.1. I embrace Microsoft "Best Practices" methods and patterns. SQL Server 2012 is the most common database back end DB component.  * On-going computer security research and development. Some key areas of exploration include: common software and website exploitation techniques such as buffer overflows, XSS cross site scripting, SQL injection. Developed proficiency with many offensive and defensive hacking tools including Metasploit, Ares, Backtrack3 etc., as well as packet sniffers, and crafters, remote vulnerability scanners, malware flavors including root kits, trojans, back doors, worms, stenographic techniques. Contract Software Developer Hexagon Safety June 2018 to March 2019 Worked on several versions of their Field Based Reporting product. This is a client/server architecture implemented with a WPF GUI and both Oracle and SQL Server databases in the backend. My work consisted of making performance improvements and fixing bugs. Senior Software Developer Elemental Scientific Instruments August 2017 to April 2018 • Implemented N + 1 motor calibration tool that vastly improved the time it took to calibrate all of the motors on the laser platform.  • Implemented a WCF server that exposed our Laser methods to external users via a WCF Service. This enabled some customers to interface with the laser from the Mass Spectrometer, where they ran some experiments.  • Made many performance improvements to the CUI, especially significant when handling image data and video.  • Implemented an extensible Add-In Framework into the GUI that enabled customers to add their own functionality to our platform. The Add-In Framework was built upon Microsoft's Managed Extensibility Add-In Framework architecture. Contract Software Developer Medtronic September 2016 to February 2017 • Implemented a number of stability and performance improvements to the Medtronic's software-only Vital Sync product.  • Implemented a De-multiplexing Windows Service to improve performance of the Data Collection Service. Contract Software Developer Lingoport May 2016 to September 2016 Short term contract to implement Internationalization (I18n) work on a fairly complex ASP.Net web application. Contract Software Developer Rockwell Collins Corporation November 2015 to May 2016 • Working on Multi-Channel product for the airline industry. Currently working with over 40 airlines, worldwide.  • Developing two SOA Web Services, one in Java and the other in C#. Contract Software Developer Gates Corporation August 2014 to August 2015 • Worked on the Checkmark product which is used in the manufacturing plants to for Quality Control. This is a Click Once installed application.  • Rewrote the data access component from ADO.Net to Entity Framework 6.3.  • Fixed production bugs and implemented functional enhancements as they arose.  • Created version 2.0 of the Checkmark product which included a new product infrastructure which capitalized on the Factory design pattern so that new plants could be brought online quickly and their differences abstracted out of the core product code. This also enabled us to have one set of source code across all plants, versus one solution for each plant.  • Implemented new plant location using proper WPF/MVVM implementation for the GUI and Entity Framework interface to the data backend.  • Integrated new hardware into the product which included a digital scales, dial indicators and new barcode scanners.  • Added log4net comprehensive logging to all versions of this product.  • Used TFS for source code repository and code branches and merges. Broker Price Opinion April 2014 to July 2014 • Developing API for Entity Value Attribute (EVA) flexible data storage subsystem.  • Developed EVA API for rest of team to access data in EVA subsystem.  • Developed RESTful web client for interaction with Bing Map API.  • Setup Enterprise logging using NLogger.  • Wired up CRUD for several Web controls. Contract Developer Peak View Solutions January 2014 to March 2014 This was always intended to be a short 2 month contract but in the time I designed and developed a dynamic routing solution for the routing of geographically disparate jobs across a team of mobile technicians. This was essentially a modified solution to the Traveling Salesman problem with some other interesting industry glitches. This solution was developed using Visual Studio 2010, .Net 4.0 and SQL Server 2008R2. Made wide use of the Google Maps API and processing the JSON results. This software has a WPF MVVM-patterned GUI and the supporting C# v4.0 code behind it. Contract Developer Singing Wind Enterprises LLC January 2013 to January 2014 C#, .Net custom product development using VS2012, .Net 4.5 and SQL Server 2012. This software consists of a WinForms MVC-patterned GUI and the supporting C# v5.0 code behind it, which utilizes the latest in MS "Best Practices" technology. The agile software development project was managed through use of Team Foundation Server 2012. Contract Developer Verizon November 2011 to August 2012 • CLIPS language implementation of Medicare fraud detection algorithms.  • Developed a generic mock web server in Perl.  • Developed several Perl language tools to retrofit existing data to conform to emerging data formats from upstream clients.  • Java development work on GUI.  • Derby database schema definition and implementation to support GUI performance through data caching.  • This software development was all done on Solaris.  • Agile development methodologies. Contract Developer Econolite Colorado Springs February 2011 to May 2011 Brought in to fix a plethora of bugs in their Centracs application. This is a C# traffic management application that makes wide use of WCF and WPF. The vast majority of the bugs I addressed were in the WPF. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science in Applied Math State University of New York at Stony Brook - Stony Brook, NY 1983 Skills .Net (10+ years), ADO (1 year), ADO.Net (1 year), API (Less than 1 year), C# (10+ years), C (Less than 1 year), client-server (Less than 1 year), database (10+ years), databases (Less than 1 year), Design patterns (10+ years), documenting (Less than 1 year), Java (1 year), MS ADO (1 year), MS SQL SERVER (10+ years), Oracle (Less than 1 year), SQL (10+ years), SQL Server (10+ years), Visual Studio (10+ years), WINDOWS PRESENTATION FOUNDATION (2 years), WPF (2 years), MVC, Angular, WCF Certifications/Licenses Driver's License