Senior Qlikview Consultant Senior Qlikview Consultant Senior Qlikview Consultant - SunTrust Bank Atlanta, GA • 11+ years of professional experience in information technology which includes, requirements gathering, application design and development, testing, deployment and maintenance support.  • Having 8 years of experience in data modelling, scripting, designing and development of application with extensive knowledge of the B.I tool QlikView, and has worked on different types of requests including new development, enhancements, maintenance, Support and troubleshooting.  • Having experience in end-to-end implementation of BI projects beginning from the requirement gathering to Productionizing dashboards including the support.  • Worked with the business users to create the business requirements and provide the prototypes for the Qlikview/Qliksense applications.  • Worked in Agile methodology using the work front tool, delivered the reports/dashboards with the sprint meetings.  • Ability to optimize existing Qlikview reports to improve business productivity and expertise in Qlikview performance optimization.  • Having experience on NPrinting and qliksense mashup.  • Having experience on connecting to SAS SPDS domain from qlikview to retrieve the data from SAS  • Experience in Qlikview Data Modeling. Resolving the Synthetic keys, Loops.  • Experience in building the QVD structure and scheduled data refreshes.  • Involved in Performance Tuning using Incremental load logic which handles Insert, Update, Delete of source data and tuning underlying data in QlikView Applications.  • Experience in using advanced aggregation functions and alternative states in Qlikview  • Experience in working with the Qlikview Admin team and production support team while deploying the code in QA and production environments.  • Experience in dimensional modeling using star and snow flake schemas. Very strong knowledge on data warehouse and data base concepts.  • Having Experience on the ETL Data stage tool.  • Knowledge over most of the relational DBs like Oracle, DB2, etc  • Self learning on the R and Phyton. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Senior Qlikview Consultant SunTrust Bank - Atlanta, GA 2015 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in requirement gathering, functional and technical specification. Analyzing the specifications provided by the clients.  • Retrieving of external data to QlikView Dashboard in terms of QVDs by making connection through ODBC and OLEDB.  • Imported DATA using various connections like Text files, MS Excel, MS Access, SQL Server, MySQL, Oracle.  • Identified various KPI's and analyzed existing Business Objects Reports in QlikView.  • Extracted data from multiple sources (SQL Server, Excel, Flat files) and created QVD's.  • Developed different dashboard with a complex database system behind it, which includes extracting data from the multiple sources (DB2, SQL Server, Excel, Flat files) and created QVD's and create the Data Model according to user requirements.    Environment: QlikView 12.10, Qlik Sense, Nprinting, Cognos, SAS Qlikview Consultant SunTrust Bank - Richmond, VA 2013 to 2015 Responsibilities:  • Worked with the Mortgage teams to identify the business reporting needs and studied current reporting practices outside of QlikView through pivot tables.  • Imported data from different sources like Oracle, SQL Server, MS Access, XML files and flat files using OLE DB/ODBC.  • Involved in designing the Data model and Construction of the Data model and implemented the Star schema for QV better optimization.  • Designing the data model in Qlikview to accommodate the application requirements.  • Created Dashboard reports to track all the way through ship to final acceptance phases.  • Designed and developed executive dashboards in QlikView delivered through the web, enabling to measure the performance of the business with analytical capabilities.  • Developing trend analysis reports using complex graphs for study of data quality patterns.  • Involved in team building and resource training Activities.  • Implemented Incremental load for the update of QVD's.  • Involved in the preparation of High Level and Technical design documents.  • Design, development and Implementation of Application  • Support for Existing Reports.  • Optimization of QlikView Application    Environment: Qlikview 11.2, SQL, Server, DB2 Senior Software Engineer CISCO 2012 to 2013 Responsibilities:  • Analyzing the Business Requirement Specification document from the client.  • Understanding functional requirements, translating them into software applications.  • Gathering Of Data Tables From Different data Sources Like SQL Server, Oracle, XML, Excel.  • Involved in the preparation of High Level and Technical design documents.  • Assessment of Impact due to changes requested  • Optimized Data Modeling.  • Design and Implementation of Various Contest Reports.  • Functional testing of the each and every application.  • Support for Existing Reports.  • Managed end to end project development involving analysis, design, development, testing and deployment    Environment: Oracle 9i, Qlikview 9.0 SR7, TOAD, Excel, HTML, UNIX, Windows XP Senior Software Engineer CISCO 2011 to 2012 Responsibilities:  • Analyzing the Business Requirement Specification document from the client.  • Understanding functional requirements, translating them into software applications.  • Gathering Of Data Tables From SAP BW  • Involved in installation of Qlikview desktop and server.  • Involved in the preparation of High Level and Technical design documents.  • Assessment of Impact due to changes requested  • Optimized Data Modeling.  • Design and Implementation of Various Contest Reports.  Environment: SAP BW, Qlikview 11.2 Senior Software Engineer CISCO 2010 to 2011 Responsibilities:  • Translated requirements into development thereby ensuring successful implementation and delivery.  • Involved in data modeling according to the business process and fine tuning the Application.  • Involved in the preparation of High Level and Technical design documents.  • Assessment of Impact due to changes requested  • Managed end to end project development involving analysis, design, development, testing and deployment  • Developed test scenarios and implemented test plan, providing key input in working with users in defining project and system requirements.    Environment:Oracle 9i, Datastage, TOAD, ERWIN Software Developer Suven 2008 to 2010 Responsibilities:  • Coordinated regular business requirement meetings with business users.  • Performed requirements analysis and delivered final requirement documents.  • Creating Database design, tables, views, sequences.  • Resolving Critical Production Issues.  • Preparation of Technical Documentation.  • Developed test scenarios and implemented test plan, providing key input in working with users in defining project and system requirements.  Environment: Oracle 9i, MS-Windows 2003 server Education Bachelor in Engineering in Electronics and Communication Audisankara College of Engineering & Technology - Gudur, Andhra Pradesh June 2002