Software Development Manager <span class="hl">Software</span> Development Manager Software Development Manager Raleigh, NC Over 15 years’ experience in managing teams and writing code. Strong understanding of Agile development, team building, SDLC, software design patterns, and SOLID principles. Experienced in C#, ASP.NET, SQL and JavaScript.    During my career with a small start-up, I helped Stay Online Corporation grow from six employees with a very limited web presence to a global operation with 100+ employees and operations in three continents. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Development Manager Stay Online Corp. - Raleigh-Durham, NC 2010 to 2019 · Managed a team using Agile with Kanban and Scrum to define, plan, deliver, and support complex projects on time and in budget;  · Presented project status and recommendations to the executive team.;  · Team building through peer review, pair programming, one-on-one meetings, and retrospectives;  · Managed teams with diverse skill sets whose individual specialties included: data entry, content management, graphic design, database administration, server management, software development, and software design;  · Maintained employee morale and kept employees on task;  · Refactored legacy application with a focus on code re-usability and stability;  · Wrote and defined Unit Tests;  · Managed Continuous Integration and deployed daily builds;  · Reviewed pull requests and lead code reviews;  · Translated business requirements into technical solutions supporting planning activities through definition, design, development, delivery and support; Software Developer / IT Admin Stay Online Corp. - Raleigh-Durham, NC 2007 to 2010 · Wrote customer facing product configurators.  · Deployed and maintained Windows servers.  · Wrote bi-directional middle-ware to sync data between web and ERP;  · Wrote and administered company intranet;  · Monitored and deployed company-wide IT equipment and answered help desk requests;  · Migrated an aging off-the-shelf Ecommerce package to a custom designed high-performance Ecommerce enabled website without losing search engine placement. Education Bachelor's in English STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK AT OSWEGO - Oswego, NY 1998 to 2002 Skills Strategic Planning, Network Administration, Microsoft Office (10+ years), Visual Studio (10+ years), Powershell (3 years), Git (5 years), SVN (10+ years), SQL (10+ years), HTML (10+ years), HTML 5 (5 years), CSS3 (5 years), Javascript (10+ years), C# (8 years), IIS (10+ years), Asp.Net (10+ years), Regex (8 years), Curl (1 year), Solid (8 years), Agile (5 years), Kanban (5 years), Software Development (10+ years), Management (8 years), Technical Writing (5 years), Active Directory, Team Development (5 years), Team Building (5 years), Team Leader (5 years), Excel, IT Management, MVC, ASP, NET, Software Architecture (10+ years), Agile (5 years), Computer Science, Node.js (1 year), AngularJS (1 year) Certifications/Licenses Scrum Master August 2019 to Present Additional Information Key Accomplishments    Helped grow a company from 6 employees with a very limited web presence to a global operation with 100+ employees and operations in two continents.    Managed teams with diverse skillsets whose individual specialties included: data entry, content management, graphic design, database administration, server management, software development, and software design. Maintained employee morale and kept employees on task.    Strong understanding of tech including: SDLC, software design patterns and principles, various language types and syntaxes, established frameworks, emerging industry trends, cloud services, database design/administration, and the nuts-and-bolts of I/O, RAM, processors and networking.    Migrated an aging off-the-shelf Ecommerce package to a custom designed high-performance Ecommerce enabled website without losing search engine placement.    Refactored a fragile codebase with no tests and about 100k lines of code into one with 100% unit test coverage and Continuous Integration (CI).    Built, lead, and mentored a software team in a competitive market for software developers. Implemented Agile with Kanban for project management.     Translated business requirements into technical solutions supporting planning activities through definition, design, development, delivery and support.