Senior Software Engineer Senior <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Senior Software Engineer - IBM India PVT LTD • Having 4+ years of experience including 3+ years of Salesforce Development, Configuration, Implementation and salesforce applications.  • Extensive experience in creating Batch apex, Schedule apex, Triggers.  • Experience in implementing REST API integration between Salesforce and Azure.  • Proficiency in administrative tasks like creating Profiles, Roles, Users, Workflows & Approvals, Reports & Dashboards, Developed Formula fields, Validation rules.  • Extensive work experience in designing custom objects, custom fields, role-based page layouts, custom Tabs, custom reports, Dashboards.  • Experience working with Force.com IDE, data migration and updates through the Data Loader in Salesforce.com (SFDC).  • Implemented security and sharing rules at object, field, and record level for different users at different levels of the organization.  • Hands on experience in querying salesforce.com database using SOQL & SOSL queries using Force.com Explorer.  • Good knowledge in writing test classes before deploying into production.  • Good knowledge of Custom Settings, Process Builder.  • Experience in implementing web and enterprise applications using HTML, CSS, JavaScript and Ajax.  • I have Basic knowledge of Lightning Components.  • Ability to adapt and learn quickly, Self Motivated and a Team Player. Work Experience Senior Software Engineer IBM India PVT LTD January 2017 to Present PROMINENT PROJECTS SFDC Developer IBM India PVT LTD January 2017 to Present Environment: Salesforce.com, Apex, Visual Force, Triggers, Batch Apex, Schedule Apex, REST API, Custom Settings and Data loader.  Description: AECOM is a leading provider service both directly and through joint ventures or similar partner arrangements, to end markets and business sectors, which include building, energy, and infrastructure and industrial. Its building sector provides construction, program and construction management services for scale building and facility construction projects. It is engaged in planning, designing, engineering, constructing, retrofitting and maintaining a range of power-generating facilities, as well as the systems that transmit and distribute electricity. It also provides services to utilities, industrial co-generators, independent power producers, original equipment manufacturers and government utilities.  Responsibilities:  • Analyze the requirements based on functional BRD Documents.  • Interact with Clients, business Analysts for clarification on the requirements.  • Created Apex Class to update the job id from custom settings based on User Geography.  • Implemented REST API between Salesforce and Oracle.  • Implemented Outbound Message between Salesforce and DDP.  • Created Batch Apex to delete the record from Oracle side when the expiration date is equal to today in salesforce.  • Implemented Queueable apex for CPU time limit error.  • Used dataloader to store data into the database.  • Prepared Manual Config. Documents and Test results for implemented logic.  • Written test classes for all the implemented Apex classes and triggers.  • Manage Deployments for both test and Production environments using sightline.    Project # 2    Project Name: Advisory Desktop- Sun Trust Sun Trust- IBM July 2016 to January 2017 Description:  Sun Trust is a leading provider of wealth management, asset servicing, asset management and banking to corporations, institutions, affluent families and individuals.    Responsibilities:  • Understanding and Analyzing the Business Requirements Document.  • Developed various Custom Objects, Tabs, Components and Visual Force Pages and Controllers.  • Administered, configured, maintained Salesforce.com application user profiles, roles, assigning Permissions.  • Created and deployed Several Reports using salesforce.com platform.  • Developed validation rules and custom workflows.  • Developed Batch Class & Apex Class.  • Written test cases to test the triggers and apex programs. C# developer AP Maersk December 2014 to June 2016 Environment: Visual Studio, SQL Server 2008 to SQL server 2012, Windows server  Description: The project was aimed to develop a maintenance free system for the client. The main aim to reduce the number of errors in Invoice and sending the correct data to the next systems. Generating new reports based on the requirements.    Responsibilities:  • Understanding business logic and issues.  • Writing C#, VB.Net code along with Store procedures.  • Involved in error handling in Stored Procedures and altering based on user requirement for new tariff rates.  • Created tools to reduce manual effort in auditing.  • Created new reports based on user requirements Education B. Tech in Electronics & Communication Engineering JNTU 2013 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Salesforce Technologies  APEX Language, SOQL, SOSL, APEX Trigger, APEX Classes, Visual Force (Pages, Components & Controllers), APEX data loader, AJAX, Workflow & Approvals, Dashboards, Reports, Custom Objects, Force.com Eclipse IDE, Email Messaging    Custom Integration  Workflow & Approvals, Field updates, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Settings,  Email Services & Custom Application and Sandbox Data Loading    Force.com Tools Apex Data Loader and Force.com Eclipse IDE  Programming Languages C# and Apex  Java/Web Technologies JavaScript, HTML, CSS  Platforms Windows 7, 8.1, 10  IDE Sublime Mavensmate