Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> San Francisco, CA ? Work Permit: Receiving Green Card in process.    ? 5+ years of experience as Oracle Developer (application design, development, performance tuning and problem troubleshooting) in OLTP and Data Warehouse environments.     ? Oracle Database SQL Certified Associate (Oracle 12.2)    ? Oracle Database PL/SQL Developer Certified Professional (Oracle 12.2)    ? Strong experience in tuning SQL queries using data dictionary views (V$ACTIVE_SESSION_HISTORY, V$SQL_PLAN_MONITOR, V$SQL_PLAN, V$SQLAREA, V$SQL_BIND_CAPTURE, V$SESSION etc.), AWR/ASH reports, and HINTS.    ? Strong experience in developing SQL/PLSQL Scripts/Programs for Data Analysis, Extraction, Transformation and Loading (ETL) mechanism     ? Proficient in the Data Manipulation using SQL for the retrieval of data from the Relational Database (Joins, Hierarchical queries, Analytical functions, Regular Expressions etc.)    ? Experience in Design and Implementation of PL/SQL Stored Procedures, Functions, Packages, Triggers, Cursors, Dynamic SQL, Collections, Database Links for Oracle Relational Databases.     ? Efficient in creating database objects like tables, indexes, primary-foreign key constraints, views, materialized views, temporary tables, table partitioning, synonyms.     ? Experience with DBA activities like creating users, granting and revoking privileges on database objects and system privileges.    ? Extensively experienced in data migration techniques using Oracle External Tables, SQL* Loader, DataPump, Exp/Imp.    ? Experience in using several built-in database packages such as DBMS_SCHEDULE, DBMS_JOB, DBMS_UTILITY, UTL_FILE, DBMS_SQL, DBMS_HPROF, DBMS_TRACE, DBMS_LOB, DBMS_METADATA etc.    ? Hands on experience with client-side technologies that include XML, JSON, SOAP, REST.     ? Versed with Agile, Scrum and Waterfall methodologies. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Developer LLC "ZIS" - Moscow,RU May 2017 to August 2019 Description:   "ZIS" is a IT vendor for one of the biggest Russian multinational chain of stores called as SportMaster, founded in 1992. SportMaster is a Moscow–based multinational corporation, that designs and manufactures shoes, clothing and sportwears, and accessories for sports. It has about 2000 stores in Russia, Belarus, Kazakhstan, China.    The project is developing a system that automates and unifies all the main business processes in the stores of the global trading network. These are critical processes for managing the warehouse and cashier’s workplace, as well as integration with the delivery service and online store. Every month, clients has new tasks not only for maintenance, but also for the development of functionality. The software works 24/7. The system is integrated with a large number of software products (>30) through various technologies, including web services(SOAP, REST), data bus, file exchange, db-link.    Responsibilities:  ? Analyse business requirements, purpose, design and implement technical solutions.    ? Create and edit complex PL/SQL packages, built and modified tables, triggers, scheduler jobs and other database objects as needed.    ? Tuning complex SQL queries and performance optimization techniques in PL/SQL.    ? Create and manage users, roles and profiles, audit and monitor databases and user access.    ? Troubleshot production problems and worked effectively with other team members to identify and address problems.    ? Provide Project managers with (effort / time) estimates on development tasks. Senior Software Engineer JSC Sberbank-Technologii(SberTech) - Moscow,RU September 2014 to April 2017 Description:   SberTech is the subsidiary company of Sberbank rendering to bank services in development and deployment of the software.   Sberbank is a state-owned Russian banking and financial services company headquartered in Moscow. Sberbank has operations in several European and post-Soviet countries. As of 2014 it was the largest bank in Russia and Eastern Europe, and the third largest in Europe, ranked 33rd in the world and first in central and Eastern Europe in The Banker's Top 1000 World Banks ranking.    Responsibilities:  ? Tune SQL-reports performance by exploiting the Oracle's new built-in functions and rewriting SQL statements.    ? Develop scripts for daily night data download from all regional divisions to the central target Database.    ? Extract data from different sources like Oracle, Flat files, External files, transformed the data based on Business requirements and loading into target Oracle Database.    ? Use data migration techniques such as Oracle External Tables, SQL* Loader, DataPump.     ? Partition Tables using Range Partitioning, List Partitioning and created local and global indexes to increase the performance. Team Leader JSC "GSKB "Almaz-Antey" - Moscow, ID January 2009 to September 2014 ? Develop telecom network, systems and standard networking protocols such as TCP/ IP, UDP.      ? Designing the C++ classes based on the requirements.     ? Optimize code for high performance and fixed various bugs.      ? Interact with the different teams to harmonize tools and processes and share best practices.  Education University Degree in Mathematics Dagestan State University - Mahachkala, RU September 2000 to July 2005 Skills Oracle 11g/12c, SQL, PL/SQL Developer, GIT, PLSQL, PL-SQL, PL SQL, Atlassian(BitBucket/Bamboo/Confluence), Oracle Sql, PL/SQL, REST Services, SOAP Services Certifications/Licenses Certificate, Oracle Database SQL Certified Associate May 2018 Certificate, Oracle Database PL/SQL Developer Certified Professional January 2019 Additional Information Work Permit: Receiving Green Card in process.