Computer Programmer Computer Programmer Computer Programmer - Clark County School District, Police Services Security Systems North Las Vegas, NV Experience SQL/Reports and Full Stack Web Developer Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Computer Programmer Clark County School District, Police Services - Las Vegas, NV October 2015 to Present - Responsible for designing, operating and supporting surveillance camera systems throughout the Clark County School District.  - Develops programming and oversees deployment of AXIS Encoders to a site location.  - Troubleshoots and evaluates PTZ drivers versions between different camera types. Tests compatibility of the hardware and software interface.  - Maintains and creates current in-house web monitoring system that oversees the functionality of over 10,000 Sony/Axis IP Cameras.  - Collaborate with other vendor Software Engineers to make use of their SDK or API.  - Write SQL queries for data extracts and reporting.  - Analyzed queries and optimized it for faster performance.  - Create scripts and procedures that grabs data from different resources/ or database servers..  - Ensure the accuracy of Clark County School District Security Systems Website http://info.securitysystems.ccsd.net.  - Provides Video Management Software technical support to CCSD Employees. Software Engineer Papillon Grand Canyon Helicopters - Las Vegas, NV July 2015 to October 2015 Perform API calls that involves redesigning company's client side website for booking tours. Converting the output in the Angular way. Software Engineer Supreme Court of Arkansas, AOC - Little Rock, AR 2011 to March 2015 Worked with Business Analyst to analyze report specifications and developed Jasper Reports for Supreme  Court/ Court of Appeals, Circuit and District Courts based on requirements  - Analyzed queries and migrated Oracle reports to Jasper Reports  - Analyze and code for conversion of data between applications and databases using Python.  - Perform data conversion from legacy system to new case management system using Pervasive Data  Integrator.  - Troubleshot user-reported application, Oracle database and Oracle report issues.  - Write SQL queries for bulk data requests extract out of new case management system.  - Involved in the planning and development of the new Arkansas Judiciary website (https://courts.arkansas.gov)  where the site was migrated from ColdFusion to Drupal, including managing contractor services.  - Participate in planning sessions in order to develop project schedules.  - Provide regular updates to project managers on project task assignments. Web Programmer Supreme Court of Arkansas, AOC - Little Rock, AR 2010 to 2011 - Ensured the accuracy of Arkansas Judiciary Website https://courts.arkansas.gov  - Responsible for the analysis, design, coding, development, testing documentation and implementation for the website redesign.  - Participate in design and architecture of software to meet business requirements.  - Develop and implement modules in Drupal supporting web application functionality as necessary to meet  requirements / design.  - Train court and non-court, legal and non-legal, technical and non technical users to maintain current information. Web Developer Yehey Corporation - Manila 2008 to 2010 Handled the task of developing and creating PHP MYSQL websites/applications as per specifications, utilizing  my skillset of HTML, CSS and Javascript  - Tested and analyzed created websites. Assist in solving problems with sites.  - Writes documentation to describe program development, logic, coding and corrections. Education Bachelor's in Computer Science EARIST Skills MYSQL, PHP, Javascript, Git, AngularJS, SQL Server, Oracle, ES6, JasperReports, Powershell, Jquery, HTML 5, CSS, Angular, Python, BootstrapCSS, REST, Surveillance Links https://www.linkedin.com/pub/rhea-baral/31/785/6a1 Additional Information ? Over 11+ years of extensive experience in database design, development and administration with SQL Server and  Oracle.  ? Excellent SQL/T-SQL (DDL, DML) programming skills using Stored Procedures, effective functions, Views, Indexes  and appropriate Triggers.  ? Expert level in Data Mapping, Optimizing and Tuning.  ? Experience Jasper Reports Developer.  ? Highly proficient in front-end and back-end web development.  ? Extensive knowledge and use of PHP, Javascript/ES6/TypeScript, AngularJS/Angular, NodeJS, Powershell,  ColdFusion, Python, XHTML, HTML, XML, CSS, BootstrapCSS and jQuery.  ? Deep understanding of Javascript and frameworks.  ? Experience with web services API Integration.  ? Experience with web development tools such as NPN, Bower, Webpack, Babel, Grunt and Yarn.  ? Knowledge in Powershell scripting.  ? Knowledge background in video surveillance (SONY, AXIS Encoders), networking and/or computer hardware.  ? Experience in IP networking covering LAN and WAN hardware configuration.  ? Experience and expertise with Drupal site administration.  ? Performs web cross browser compatibility and QA testing.  ? Have trouble shooting skills and other computer related operations.  ? Career oriented, hardworking and ability to handle multiple tasks.    ? Excellent team player with positive attitude.  ? Quick learner and ability to learn new concepts.  ? Experience with Software Development Cycle.  ? Experience using Pervasive Data Integrator to perform Extract Transform and Load data task  ? Experience working in a project environment, meeting deadlines, and interacting with project managers,  project team members, sr. staff, and resource managers to ensure project success.  ? Knowledge in Dreamweaver, Photoshop, PHPStorm, Vim, Sublime, PhpMyadmin, HeidiSQL, SVN (and general  version control), i-Report, Jaspersoft Studio, Toad for Oracle, GITBash, Visual Studio Code