Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer Glenville, NC I arrived in the United States in May 2019 from Estonia by the green card. Now i live in  Glenville NC. I am in America legally and I can legally work. But I know English very badly,  but i'm learning the language and I want to practice. I would like to work to learn English  faster and practice more.  My main goal is to find a job in the specialty as I like it and i wish in further be involved in  the IT field. Now I don’t really care about salary, I want to faster learn English.  I think that communicating with colleagues and working in team, somehow related to  programming, I will quickly gain the necessary vocabulary and will be able to work more  effectively in this area.  I hope you have some work for me. From my side, I promise to do all my best to be  useful to you. Work Experience Software Developer Premium Management - Tallinn, EE July 2017 to April 2019 Support and development of the company website. The company provides various online  courses. https://premiummanagement.com/  At the time when I worked in this company a complete redesign of the site and its  functionality were made.  Developed frontend and backend. For backend used ruby on Rails and PostgreSQL, for frontend used HTML, css, javaScript, JQuery,  Also used and know how to work with the Sidekiq, Webflow, Bootstrap, Slim Templates  Also at the this work I studied the testing and coverage of various application Rspec tests  TDD and BDD. Software Developer SBA Service OÜ - Tallinn, EE July 2015 to August 2017 Developed and maintained a specific site for the needs of the company.  Developed frontend and backend. For backend used php and MySQL, for frontend used  HTML, css, javaScript, JQuery. Education Bachelor (Diploma) Computer Science College - Tallinn, EE 2014 Skills PHP (2 years), Javascript (2 years), Ruby on Rails (2 years), MySQL (2 years), PostgresSQL (2 years), HTML (4 years), CSS (4 years), Sidekiq (2 years), Webflow (2 years), Bootstrap (2 years), Vue js (Less than 1 year), Photoshop (1 year), Word (5 years), Excel (5 years), Powerpoint (5 years), Git, jQuery, HTML 5 Additional Information Skills  I think I'm learning pretty fast, I am very diligent, I love to grow, and try everything new.  And I feel responsible for what I do.