Programmer Analyst II Programmer Analyst II O'Fallon, IL Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Programmer Analyst II Bi-State Development - St. Louis, MO March 2008 to Present Supported Cyborg for just under 2 years, then company converted to Oracle HCMS and was given Kronos to learn and support. Implemented Attendance, accruals, Leave and now getting ready to implement Mobile. Upgraded Kronos from 6.0 to 6.3, then to 8.0 with minimal help from Kronos, mostly in-house. Create and support WIM/API's, change system configuration, support managers and employees with anything related to Kronos(ie: historical edits, Access, Pay Rules, Labor levels, Attendance, hyperfinds, etc). Also keep system up and running by working with DBA's other groups within IT. Intermediate SQL skills for reporting. Attended several Kronos Works throughout the years. Programmer Analyst II March 2008 to December 2009 Developer/Programmer CSL August 2006 to August 2007 Software Developer/Programmer Comrise - Hazlet, NJ 1998 to 2005 Hazlet, NJ  Troubleshooting Open enrollment extracts, reports & Batchls. Created New tables, calculation codeset codes and extracts for Benefits' open enrollment (Flex plans). Create process for open enrollment testing and implementation. Created miscellaneous audit reports, batchls, and extracts for Payroll, Benefits and HR departments.    Software Developer/Programmer: Cyborg HR/Payroll/Benefits 1998 to 2005  Ahold USA: Ahold Information Services  Greenville, SC  Code Cyborg programs to provide automatic update of employee records (benefits, HR, payroll records). Created process and programs to add/change/delete Cyborg Benefit tables as needed. Added and maintained search arguments for Cyborg Benefit tables. Analyze data to assure salary, benefits, and accruals are accurate. Troubleshoot Cyborg Benefit tables issues during initial set up and when questions arise. Develop, analyze, test and troubleshoot Cyborg database programs for Ahold USA. Perform similar operations for in-house records and payroll. Create programs that extract information for unit and company-wide reports, presentations and batch-L's from Cyborg. Devise and implement GUI format screens with custom windows, tables and segments. Design, verify, update and correct CSL queries related to employee files. Software Developer Global Development Group - Chicago, IL 1996 to 1998 Successfully completed extensive training program to develop the CBSV virtual machine and the company's flagship product: Solution Series/ST. Coordinated requests for system resources from international offices. Updated programs for Y2K compliance. Edited and repaired code in Solution Series programs, including current software. Produced reports and catalogs from datamart, using Cognos and PVCS.    Technical and Language Skills  Operating Systems: MS-DOS, Windows, AS/400, IBM Mainframe, Microsoft Server 2012  Software: MS Office, Lotus Notes, PVCS Version Manager, Endevor, Kronos, Toad, VCN View, QQuest, Discoverer  Programming Languages: CSL(Cyborg Scripting Language), COBOL, SQL  Foreign Language: French (10-year residency in Switzerland) Education B.S. in Management Information System Option Western Illinois University - Macomb, IL St. Edward High School - Elgin, IL Bachelor's Skills Kronos, Sql, Discoverer, Pvcs, Scripting, Cobol, Ibm mainframe, Mainframe, Ms-dos, Endevor, Ms office, As/400, Lotus notes, CSS