Developer - Specialty <span class="hl">Developer</span> - Specialty Developer - Specialty - Concur Bellevue, WA • Over 10 years of designing, developing and testing software using ASP.NET, C#, VB.NET, XML, PHP, CRM.  • Over 10 years of SQL/T-SQL, SSIS, queries, designing, developing and maintaining relational database in  MSSQL Server (2000/2005/2008/2012/2014)  • Over 4 years of PowerShell and 3 years as team lead.  • 5 years of working in Agile environment using SCRUM methodology.  • Created .NET desktop based tool that parses for index number or name of the string so that it can be extracted  from string table.  • Created .NET library that would serialize the string tables to binary files and then binary files to XML.  • 7 years of unit testing, UI manual and auto testing, ADO.Net Testing, Web services testing, API testing, SQL  Stored Procedure testing, and black box and white box testing.  • Created libraries of PowerShell files to know whether the troubleshooter is running for the first time.  • 7 years of experience object Oriented Analysis and Design, UML.  • Deployment / maintaining and post production support for live applications in SQL server, MS Dynamics CRM,  Salesforce.com, ASP.NET, JavaScript  • Good understating of design patterns like Singleton, Delegate, Façade, DAO, DTO  • Knowledge of .Net Framework, Garbage Collection, TCP/IP, Active Directory, WCF, WPF, Selenium, UI  Automation, coded UI, serialization/deserialization, accessibility Work Experience Developer - Specialty Concur - Bellevue, WA October 2016 to Present 4  Projects (Test): DAAPI, VAAPI/Prometheus, DB Schema Validity, Cognos Reporting APIs  Responsibilities:  • Create test framework to call GPRC/GraphQL/Rest API using various design patterns like Factory Method,  Singleton etc.  • Unit and Integration Test mid tier for Rest Web APIs by consuming Rest Assured, Javax and custom created  framework.  • Perform white box and grey box and black box testing.  • Data validation tests using T-SQL, SQL.  • Data schema tests using T-SQL, SQL.    Environment: Java, JUnit, MacOS, CircleCI, KubeCtl, Git, MySQL, Hana, Gradle, Rest Assured, JavaX Framework,  GraphQL, GPRC Java client Watchguard Development - Seattle, WA August 2016 to October 2016 WA  Software Developer Engineer and Test  Projects (Development): HawkEyeG  Web activation software.  Responsibilities:  • Develop new features using C# and ASP.NET and OO Design.  • Update and Maintain old features and add and develop new features in web services.  • Maintain, debug and fix the bugs in ASP.NET MVC, C# and SQL, REST WebAPI, store procedures, SQL jobs.  • Create/Maintain/Update REST WebServices.  • Perform white box / black box testing.  • Responsible for Unit tests and data validation tests.  • Develop in leveraging in agile and scrum methodology environment.    Environment: ASP.Net, LINQ, MVC, C#(4.0), Powershell, JQuery, Javascript, Azure, Workflow, CSS, Codeflow,  SQL 2014, UI Validation, Angular.JS, Visual Studio 2012, Powershell ISE, SQL Server Management Studio, Remote Software Developer Engineer Microsoft (MCIO) - Redmond, WA August 2015 to June 2016 Projects (Development): BRH  BRH is N Tier internal application used by Business team.  Responsibilities:  • Develop new features using C# and ASP.NET and OO Design.  • Update and Maintain old features and add and develop new features.  • Maintain, debug and fix the bugs in ASP.NET MVC, C# and SQL, REST WebAPI, store procedures, SQL jobs.  • Create/Maintain REST WebServices.  • Port database from SQL to SQL Azure.  • Create/Maintain VM in Azure portal  • Perform white box / black box testing.  • Responsible for Unit tests and data validation tests.  • Develop in leveraging in agile and scrum methodology environment.    Environment: ASP.Net, LINQ, MVC, C#(4.0), Powershell, JQuery, Javascript, Azure, Workflow, CSS, Codeflow,  SQL 2014, UI Validation, Angular.JS, Visual Studio 2012, Powershell ISE, SQL Server Management Studio, Remote Software Developer Engineer Microsoft (HRC) - Redmond, WA March 2015 to June 2015 2  Projects (Development): DirSync  DirSync is a kind of troubleshooter that will synchronize the office 365 users to active directory.  Responsibilities:  • Develop new features using C# and ASP.NET and OO Design.  • Update and Maintain old features and add and develop new features.  • Maintain, debug and fix the bugs in ASP.NET and SQL.  • Perform white box / black box testing for the code written by peers.  • Responsible for Unit tests and data validation tests.  • Developed in leveraging in agile and scrum methodology environment.    Environment: ASP.Net, LINQ, MVVM, C#(4.0), Powershell, JQuery, Javascript, Azure WebRole, Azure WorkerRole,  Workflow, CSS, Codeflow, Style Cop, Active Directory, SQL 2014, XAML, UI Validation, Visual Studio 2012, SQL  Server Management Studio, TFS, Angular.JS, WCF Software Developer Senior Analyst Dell - Plano, TX October 2014 to February 2015 Projects (Development): HRMSWeb, AuditToHistory  HRMSWeb is a Human resource management project where it has various layers. It has also has payroll system. It  contains lots of design patterns, like factory pattern, command pattern etc.  AuditToHistory is a windows service that gets data from one database to another database by applying business  logic.  Responsibilities:  • Develop new features using C# and ASP.NET and OO Design.  • Maintain and test HRMS (Web Version) for TENET group.  • Develop, Maintain, debug and fix the bugs in ASP.NET, classic ASP, stored procedures and test it.  • Used Windows Forms for prototyping purpose and testing purpose.  • Perform white box / black box testing for the code written by peers.  • Consumption of Web APIs, WCF, REST web services and SOAP web services.  • Responsible for Unit tests and data validation tests.  • Developed in leveraging in agile and scrum methodology environment.    Environment: ASP.Net, COM, HTML, Entity Framework, MSSQL, Javascript, SSIS, C#, CSS, SQL Jobs, Windows  services, batch processing, Windows Forms, LINQ, Visual Studio 2010, SQL Server Management Studio, TFS,  Angular.JS Consumer Windows & Office Support Development Microsoft Corporation - Sammamish, WA May 2013 to September 2014 and Redmond, WA  Software Developer Engineer 3 (Lead)  Projects (Development): PCTuneup, reporting for TSP, Restart feature for TSP, Answer Desk  Restart feature for TSP is a project where I had to save the state of an application which had no state so that it could  be traced after the computer restarts, at which point it ended before restart what were the failure points and what has  been completed etc. All these features were implemented by creating registry keys and reading and writing from there.  Responsibilities:  • Develop, Create using OO Design and maintain tools for other developers to use.  • Develop, Created .NET desktop based tool that parses for index number or name of the string so that it can be  extracted from string table.  • Created .NET library that would serialize the string tables to binary files and then binary files to XML  • Create and apply patch for existing troubleshooting framework.  • Created .NET Windows Form EULA that can be used for right to left and left to right languages.  • Lead the team of developers, testers and research optimum solution.  • Created libraries of PowerShell files to know whether the troubleshooter is running for the first time.  • Guide and do code review for other developers, testers.  • Unit test functions using TDD methodology and Coded UI and UI automation.  • Developed in leveraging in agile with scrum methodology    Achievements:  • Automated a process, which previously took 11 man hours and later took 45 minutes.  • Created a EULA display too in accordance to Microsoft Accessibility Standard as a patch using Windows Forms  • Suggested and provided a functionality which was missing from the specs.  Environment: Powershell, XML, C#, Win32 Api, Web services, MS-SQL, CSS, windows registry, Salesforce.com,  Entity Framework, Windows Forms, CodedUI, UI Automation, Microsoft Test Framework, Windows Troubleshooting  Platform, Powershell ISE, Visual Studio 2010, TFS Software Developer Engineer Microsoft Corporation - Redmond, WA May 2012 to May 2013 Redmond, WA  Software Developer Engineer 3  Projects (Development): ACS, Netlogon, Mongoose, NSI-Litweb, WatchList  ACS is a data warehouse project, where sliding window protocol has been implemented to get rid of data that are  older than 90 days. It also had various sql jobs running. It also had windows services running to get data from different  servers.  Responsibilities:  • Developing projects, functional specifications using OO design and schedules.  • Created and submitted specifications, project timeline and schedules  • Designing and developing database applications using SQL server 2008.  • Authorizing users in SQL Database, granting permissions and privileges.  • Single handily handled System development life cycle of a SQL project that would generate reports daily for the internal customers.  • Creating and maintaining data feeds to extract and present data from various sources.  • Crisis Management and Troubleshooting on various data feeds on customer request.  • Create / maintain data warehouse.  • Deployment / maintaining and post production support for live applications in SQL server, MS Dynamics CRM,  ASP.NET, JavaScript  • Added a custom button that would search for records in database accordance to selected criteria in the form  • Worked in agile with scrum methodology    Achievements: Automated a process, which previously took 3-4 man hours per day and later took 30 minutes per  day.  Environment: T-SQL, C#, ASP.NET, MS Dynamics CRM. Salesforce.com, JavaScript, HTML, SSIS, CSS, windows  services, partition functions, batch processing, Entity Framework, Windows Forms, Visual Studio 2010, SQL Server  Management Studio, TFS Consumer Windows & Office Support Development Microsoft Corporation - Sammamish, WA February 2011 to May 2012 Software Developer Engineer 3 (Lead)  Projects (Development): Mutex Verifiers, WindowsUpdate datacollector backend service, TSPUnit, BuildEngine, WU  Datacollector Consumer, custom Powershell cmdlets, TSP Web Launcher  Mutex Verifiers is a project which was built as a library, and a patch to a current working framework, it prevented  verifiers to fire simultaneously per say. If one verifier has been fired for this resolver, then other verifiers won't fire.  This goal was achieved by using file input output. After building this patch, every project built used this library.  Responsibilities:  • Create using OO Design and maintain tools for other developers to use.  • Created and deployed web services that would take data from database, which is consumed C# desktop  application  • Create and apply patch for existing troubleshooting framework.  • Created a PowerShell library that would mutually exclude verifiers being executed  • Created a PowerShell Library that would know the current state of troubleshooter being executed  • Research optimum solution.  • Derived a best way to create custom commandlets for PowerShell  • Lead the team and guide other developers, testers.  • Unit and integration test functions.  • Worked in agile with scrum methodology    Achievements:  • Created a library which is extensively used till date by the team.  • Created a patch that would satisfy the team goals while using Windows Troubleshooting platform  Environment: Powershell, C#, Win32 Api, Web services, MS-SQL, HTML, ASP.Net, Windows Forms, WPF, UI  Automation Framework, SQL, Windows Troubleshooting Platform, Visual Studio 2008/2010, TFS TFS, GIT 2012 to 2012 Consumer Windows & Office Support Development Microsoft Corporation - Sammamish, WA February 2010 to February 2011 Software Developer Engineer  Projects (Development): Power, User Profile, Shared Folder, Windows Update, Easy Assist, Codec Identification,  Fix DotNet  Windows Update is a project that not only collected what was wrong with windows update service but also tried to fix  some of the problems that was preventing windows update service to download current windows updates.  Responsibilities:  • Create and maintain troubleshooter.  • Design, Develop and maintain using OO Design.  • Research optimum solution.  • Unit test functions.  • Developed in leveraging in agile with scrum methodology    Achievements:  • Automated a process, which would take agents 1-2 hours to install and let it execute later took 3-5 minutes.  • Created a troubleshooter that took success rate from less than 10% to over 80%  Environment: Powershell, C#, Win32 Api, MS-SQL, Web services, windows registry, Windows Forms, SQL,  Windows Troubleshooting Platform, Visual Studio 2008/2010, TFS Software Developer Maharishi University of Management - Fairfield, IA August 2008 to September 2008 Projects (Development): Add Users  Responsibilities:  • Gather information according to in-house need.  • Identify the problem according to the requirements.  • Design a solution and its alternative.  • Develop software against test environment.  • Deploy the software.  • Test the functions by using unit, Black Box and White Box testing methodology.    Achievements:  • Added a dump add user functionality which used to take 3-4 hours can be done in few minutes.  Environment: Rational Server Pages (J2EE), My SQL, Sakai 2.5.2, Maven 2.0.9, Tomcat 5.5.26, HTML System Developer Analyst and Programmer Code Arts Pvt. Ltd - Kathmandu, NP October 2006 to September 2007 Project: Connection for database  Responsibilities:  • Analyze Design, Code and Test the web application based on PHP and AJAX.  Environment: PHP, My SQL, PHP MyAdmin, Joomla, HTML Software Developer Kantipur City College - Kathmandu, NP August 2004 to September 2006 Projects (Development): Mail and Inventory Management System, Add User in Active Directory  Responsibilities:  • Gather information by conducting meeting with the client.  • Design, Develop and maintain.  • Analyze the feasibility study of a project, database design and provide alternate solutions.  • Work in team, Modules structured, User interface, database structure, software /database interface. E-Mail  sending modules.  • Test using unit, API, Black Box and White Box methodologies.  • Provide demonstration and training of the delivered project.  • Provide different kinds of documentation.  • Instruct in Java, Computer Graphics, C, C++, C#, ASP.NET, Network Programming, Active Directory  Environment: C#, Active Directory, Visual Basic .NET, MS-SQL, HTML, POCO, Windows Forms, ASP.NET, Visual  Studio 2000 Software Developer/Tester Polyimage Pvt. Ltd - Kathmandu, NP January 2001 to February 2005 Projects (Development): Attendance Maintaining System, Vehicle Information System, Client Order Information  System, Waste Management System  Projects (Testing): Client Order Information System, Waste Management System  Responsibilities:  • Gather information by conducting different levels of staff and prepared requirement documentation.  • Design, Develop and maintain.  • Test using unit, Black Box and White Box methodologies.  • Provide demonstration and training of delivered projects.  • Office Automation, Manage IT Crisis, Manage Computer.  • Test internal APIs (calculation of rough estimate, calculation of discounts, calculation of Tax, bill generation,  add/edit customers store procedure, add/edit order to database) of the project manually and automatically.    Achievements:  • Increase efficiency of office activity by 30% with the help of automation.  Environment: VB.NET, C#, NUnit, ASP.Net, MS-SQL, POCO, ADO.Net, Windows Forms, Active Directory, Visual  Studio 2000 Education MS in Computer Science Maharishi University of Management - Fairfield, IA August 2011 Skills SQL (10+ years), C# (10+ years), ASP (10+ years), ASP.NET (10+ years), MS ASP (10+ years) Additional Information Skills:  Languages: C#, C, C++, PHP, Visual Basic.NET, Java  Development Environment: C#, SQL, Visual Basic .NET 2010/2013, Windows troubleshooting platform,  Powershell v1/2/3/4, Salesforce.com, Visual Studio IDE, Team Foundation  Server  Web Development Technologies: ASP.NET MVC, ASP, ADO.NET, XML, Web Services, SOAP, HTML, CSS,  JavaScript, VB Script, AJAX, HTML5  Databases: MS-SQL Server, MS Access, My SQL, Hadoop  OO Tools: UML, Visio, Rational Rose  Other Tools: PowerShell, Crystal Report, JUnit, NUnit, Perl Scripting, Spark, Map Reduce