Senior Software Developer Senior <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Software Developer - Codifyd Chicago, IL Work Experience Senior Software Developer Codifyd January 2018 to Present Codify specializes in all aspects of product data management, especially e-commerce.    Responsibilities include:  • Initial research and design for web-based product data normalization application.  • Continued design, development, and maintenance of comprehensive product data application. Current work includes improvement of data entry elements of SKU data, complete redesign of SKU Groups Console, and implementation of program access to multiple SQL Server instances.  • Design, development, and implementation of a file transfer API, written in ASP.NET Web API. The API provides listings of files and folders, and transfers files between the company's server and the client's system. Software Developer Codifyd January 2013 to December 2017 Responsibilities include:  • Design, development, and maintenance of comprehensive product data taxonomy and schema manipulation and data normalization application. Written in C#, WinForms, and ASP.NET, with SQL Server back end. Improvements include a complete rewrite of the taxonomy tree, allowing data analysts to tag tree nodes with meta-data and images, giving a more comprehensive view of product classification.  • Design, development, and maintenance of client-facing web-based file exchange application, written in ASP.NET and C#. The interface is a complete rewrite of the application, changing from a link-based interface to a Windows Explorer tree-style interface, with an improved file transfer mechanism, giving the user a more intuitive approach to file maintenance.  • Design and development of import/export tools for proprietary XML documents containing product data, with components in C# and Java.  • Back-end and test development of product data channel management system, written in Java.  • Ongoing software architecture and design work, in conjunction with Professional Services Manager, translating user requirements to software that meets them. Independent Consultant American Association of Individual Investors February 2001 to January 2013 AAII is a not-for-profit organization that educates individual investors in investment theory and strategy.    Responsibilities include:  • Development of a SOAP web service and a program launcher for AAII's Stock Investor application to facilitate automatic online program and data updates, written in C#. This system allows the user to update stock data on a weekly basis without the need for physical media, giving timeliness and convenience.  • Upgrade of Stock Investor's data generation application to read complex XML data, written in Visual FoxPro. This upgrade was necessitated by the data vendor's transition from CSV files to XML, which also provided more data to the application.  • Development of a prototype of a new data generation program for Stock Investor, written in C#, VB.NET and LINQ. This prototype demonstrated to the company the ability to access Stock Investor's XML data using .NET technology, instead of Visual FoxPro. This provided both development in more current technology, as well as faster execution. Programmer American Association of Individual Investors May 1994 to February 2001 Responsibilities include:  • Design, development and implementation of AAII's Stock Investor application and its accompanying data generation application, written in Visual FoxPro and VB 6. Stock Investor is a fundamental stock analysis application, which includes the ability to select stocks based on user-directed criteria from more than 2,000 fields and 10,000 issues, using on-the-fly generation of SQL statements. Stock Investor is AAII's flagship membership software offering.  • Implementation of support programs for Stock Investor, using Tcl/Tk, InstallShield, and Access. These support programs primarily assist AAII staff in preparing distribution of the Stock Investor application and data. Programmer TrippLite May 1993 to April 1994 Responsibilities include:  • Development and maintenance of remote sales tracking program, written in FoxPro.  • Development of other applications in FoxPro and Access, as needed. Programmer Wisconsin Department of Agriculture, Trade, and Consumer Protection 1991 to 1993 Responsibilities include:  • Conversion of data to NOMAD (4th generation language) and IBM DB2 platform. Programmer Executemps 1990 to 1991 Responsibilities include:  • Development and maintenance of Executrix, a comprehensive temporary employee agency management package. Written in FoxBase, then converted to Clipper (DBase III clones) Education BS in Applied Computer Science in Applied Computer Science Illinois State University 2011 Skills Java, Javascript Additional Information Innovative, creative, and diligent software developer, with experience in several platforms. Experienced in database design and object-oriented analysis and design. Excels in written and verbal communications, with an emphasis on understanding and refining client requirements and translating those requirements into working designs and implementations.    Technical Summary    • C# (WinForms, LINQ, LINQ-To-SQL, Entity Framework)  • ASP.NET Web API  • ASP.NET Web Forms  • PHP 7  • Java  • JavaScript, Bootstrap 4  • HTML, CSS  • Visual Studio 2017  • SQL Server 2012  • Git/Bitbucket  • Jenkins (continuous integration)  • DevExpress UI Controls