Senior Application Developer Senior Application <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full-stack developer, lead programmer, & software technical manager with active Secret clearance. Fairfax, VA I am a full-stack developer, lead programmer, and software technical manager. I have experience in all stages of the software life cycle from proposals and design to operations and management. My designs start at the data layer with a foundation of role-based authorization, and enforced referential integrity. I use RESTful web services to isolate sensitive access in the business layer. The presentation layer’s most important feature is security and responsiveness. While the firewall and server configurations are important, secure code is the foundation of a secure system. I secured software with smartcards and complied with the DISA STIG. I currently have a Secret clearance. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Application Developer Alta IT / ECS Federal September 2017 to Present ITACS SharePoint Project: Manage a team of developers for SharePoint intranet projects. Develop requirements, plan work schedules, review code design. Evaluate designs for security compliance. I act as the team’s ScrumMaster and report progress to the customer and management.  NBIMC Project: Support the Navy Bloodborne Infection Management Center (NBIMC) as they modernize their order and patient tracking systems.   • Updated their software to work in on a 64-bit server. Migrated Servers to 2008R2 and workstations to Windows 10.  • Modified the web servers and software to comply with the DoD STIG and gain an ATO for NBIMC.  • Migrated reports from Crystal Reports to SQL Server Reporting Services.  • Modify code for new blood testing, performance, and reliability. System Engineer SeKON Enterprise, Inc. February 2016 to September 2017 DHMSM Project: Support the DoD Healthcare Management System Modernization as a System Engineer who integrates the various contractors and Government agencies with the new enterprise health management software.   • Reviewed and corrected Interface Control Documents defining the protocols, ports, data fields, and authentication.  • Wrote Release Management plans to integrate new versions of the SaaS commercial product into the DoD environment. Stakeholders include the software owner, the Government, and third parties such as the VA.  • Tested connectivity of servers in labs and pre-production environments.  • Wrote queries and reports in BMC Remedy and IBM’s Rational Team Concert (Jazz). Software Technical Manager General Dynamics Information Technology / Vangent, Inc. July 2008 to February 2016 ABACUS Project: After writing the technical section of the winning proposal, I hired and led a team that built a MVC ASP.NET web app for registering and managing users for a DoD billing & collection system. I designed the architecture for the data, reporting, authentication, and web layers. Using the smartcard authentication, the web app connects to a RESTful web service which is the interface to Active Directory. We built a reporting web app with a graphic dashboard, printable and exportable reports, and an ad hoc query tool.  • Wrote the technical section of the winning proposal describing the aggregation of the medical center databases into a central reporting database and the design of the reporting web application.  • Designed the high-level architecture of the development, testing, and production environments. I wrote the rules for code promotion and defined areas of responsibility.  • Used Scrum for Agile software development. Tracked progress with Team Foundation Server.  • Integrated the use of third-party smartcard authentication into the software. Installed and configured the IIS extension on the web servers.  • Designed the RESTful web service as an authorization back-end server. It reads users from Active Directory, inserts new user accounts, and updates existing accounts. Designed the role-based permissions matrix implemented through Active Directory group memberships.  • Identified problems with HP Fortify Source Code Analyzer and implemented the technical fixes. Prepared the DoD DISA STIG security audits to the Government auditors. Mitigated vulnerabilities and justified exemptions.  • Used HP WebInspect for penetration testing and modified the code to mitigate the findings.  • Wrote the CSS to implement the graphic designer’s drawings in code.  Force Health Protection Project: I developed and maintained a variety of DoD medical websites using Java, Apache, .NET, and IIS technologies. I was promoted to the team’s leader prior to our biggest project which was the conversion of legacy web sites into a Sitefinity content management system.  • Lead the migrations of a dozen applications and dozens of websites for a DoD BRAC move into a consolidated enterprise. Drew up a 14-month schedule and delivered the new sites on time.  • Coordinated with the Information Assurance team for DoD security audits and penetration testing.  • Designed data schemas to represent current test and business models. Normalized data and built in referential integrity.  • Wrote server control for displaying information common to all sites.  • Wrote code to modify server controls at various stages of the page life-cycle to extend function and skin for branding and user feedback.  • Wrote web service and library for Active Directory authentication, user lookup and user modification by the DoD authorized PKI credentials on their Common Access Card (smartcard). Senior Software Developer MAR, Inc. April 2005 to July 2008 Designed and built a multiple-tier billing and invoicing system for purchasing credits in the government's pension systems using Microsoft SQL Server and Visual Studio .NET. This software eliminated a chronic work backlog and reduced the number of employees required for Service Credit processing.  • Designed the schema for the new database. Normalized the design and set up the indexing and foreign keys. Built trigger-based auditing of key tables.  • Designed a secure access paradigm using a combination of application-level and domain-level authentication. Included role-based security within the stored procedures and application code.   • Built database triggers to store an audit trail for data modifications. Provided audit trail reports for payments and master records using Crystal Reports.  • Programmed a Windows Service for the Application Server that will operate without user intervention. Administration and monitoring is done with standard Microsoft system tools.  • Analyzed the system cash flow and developed an approval and change tracking procedure so that payment adjustments must be approved by supervisors and the audit log is viewed by clicking on a payment.  • Automated Microsoft Word to populate the templates with live data from the server. The memos that were in daily use are now filled out by the program.  • Wrote dozens of database reports in Business Object’s Crystal Reports tool using stored procedures as a data source.  • Wrote the software to be 508 compliant. Designed an enhanced mode for screen reader programs to speak the information on the screen using the business terminology instead of spelling the words. Software Engineer III Avista Advantage July 1999 to September 2004 Modified and maintained a n-tier Utility Billing system using Microsoft SQL Server and Oracle. Provided secure financial business intelligence for cost accrual accounting based on seasonal climate or price changes in same or similar facilities.  • Wrote PL/SQL stored procedures for Oracle and Transact-SQL for Microsoft SQL Server.  • Wrote functional specifications for technical and non-technical customers and managers.  • Analyzed business rules and client requests with salesmen and accountants for custom code design.  • Developed statistical reports to identify causes of network & database degradation.  • Extracted data from the database for direct import into customers’ accounting systems.   • Wrote applications to produce Crystal-Report-formatted output using both stored procedures and the Crystal Query engine. Also developed stand-alone reports.  • Wrote applications using the Microsoft Office library to create Excel and e-mail output. Programmer / Analyst Vector Research / Analysis & Technology / Anteon February 1985 to July 1999 Designed software for data acquisition and analysis of the acoustic properties of Navy ships and models that acquire sensor data from on-board sensors, then store and process data for “quick-look” and in-depth analysis.  • Designed algorithms for complex interrupt handling based on evaluating task priorities in real-time. These controlled data acquisition for Naval Acoustic trials.  • Made software to respond to on-board sensors to control “flight” of quarter-scale submarine model.  • Instrument control via IEEE-488 data bus. Wrote code to download into data analyzers, amplifiers, timecode readers and speech synthesizers to control the instruments & trigger data transfers.  • Programmed using C and C++ for CA-Ingres database.  • Served as technical liaison between my customers and scientific instrument vendors. Provided test scenarios and validated acoustic analyzers & other equipment before government purchase.  • Designed test plans for Quality Assurance testing and formal customer acceptance.  • Designed normalized database schemas to ensure performance and scalability.  • Implemented foreign-key constraints, data bound rules, triggers, and indexing.  • Predicted future growth requirements for database storage and network bandwidth.  • Automated off-line data backup & retrieval using C Shell scripts to control a tape jukebox. Education Bachelor's in Computer Science George Mason University - Fairfax, VA 1981 to 1984 Skills Microsoft C#, ASP.NET, CSS, MVC, LDAP, AJAX, Microsoft Visual Basic, Entity Framework, LINQ, Transact-SQL, SharePoint, C, C++, JavaScript, Telerik, Kendo UI, PL/SQL, JSP, Microsoft SQL Server, Oracle, SQL Server Reporting Services, ADO Entity Objects, LINQ, Windows, IIS Web Server, RESTful Web Services, LDAP, Visual Studio, Team Foundation Server, HP Fortify SCA, Agile, Scrum, J2Ee, TFS, Angularjs, C#, Java Links http://linkedin.com/brucedimon Certifications/Licenses MCTS: Microsoft Certified Technology Specialist, D164-7676 May 2010 to Present Certified ScrumMaster (CSM), 000253956 May 2013 to May 2015 Security+ ce (501), COMP001021363742 July 2018 to July 2021