Senior Software Developer Senior <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Portland, OR Motivated Senior Software Engineer, Software Architect, and Software Lead. Experienced at leading a team through the software development life cycle and at leading both overseas and domestic teams. Experience at running daily standup meetings. Proven success at writing and debugging mission critical applications. Proficient with Android, C#, Java, C/C++, web technologies, and Agile with the ability to learn new technologies very quickly. Excellent problem-solving skills with a history of solving complex application bugs. Effective team player with great communication skills, a can-do attitude, and takes ownership of job tasks while persisting through adversity and ambiguity. Work Experience Senior Software Developer Apollo Mechanical - Portland, OR May 2018 to Present Senior Software Engineer TruckTrax - Vancouver, WA June 2013 to May 2018 Enhance, debug, and test Windows client and service applications in C#, SQL on SQL Server, Java for Android, and web applications with customer requested enhancements and issues. Provide time estimates and work on areas for refinement and improvement to concrete truck tracking and job ticketing suite of software to reduce customers time and increase profits. Ported older code to .NET to assist in bringing aging applications up to date and minimize issues with modern systems. Write documentation and release notes on code changes. Occasionally run daily standup meeting. Collaborate with other developers to enhance and thoroughly test the entire product suite. Work directly with QA, clients, and customers on solving or identifying issues with the software suite. Perform code reviews. Senior Software Engineer / Software Architect / Software Lead Ensequence - Portland, OR December 2008 to June 2013 Lead team members who work across the globe. Provide feedback, coach, and mentor team members and peers. Work with product owners to determine how team members will be assigned work and meet with CTO and managers as product expert. Work directly with customers to create and write requirement and technical documents for developers and team members to use for development. Develop timelines, and write plans to meet hard set project deadlines. Provide time estimates for upcoming work. Design and architect interactive TV applications. Write C# applications that must deliver iTV back channel data reliably. Write Java applications that collect viewer metrics data. Work directly with cable vendors and television programmers to deliver rock solid iTV advertising template and meet expectations with TV groups such as Showtime, HSN, and NBC. Work directly with quality assurance and customers. Software Engineer Communications Product Development Inc - Vancouver, WA April 2000 to December 2008 Use C++ in Visual Studio environment to implement new custom features into product application for customers. Debug, maintain, and modify code base to customers on-site specifications. Analyze new feature design requirements and provide time estimates for completion. Develop and deploy C# applications to customer requirements. Helped design and implement rewrite of core product application. Integrated new telephony hardware into application rework. Sole architect, designer and developer for several Windows applications for product startup, initialization, and debugging. Installed hardware and setup servers for testing and debugging. Rewrote Windows applications for Linux compatibility. Work without supervision and meet deadlines. Report to managers weekly. Ordered and assembled new workstation and server components. Web Developer / Computer Tech Keyed Communications - Phoenix, AZ June 1998 to March 2000 Developed web sites using HTML, JavaScript, and Java. Worked with web servers and services to start and manage web sites. Managed time between web sites, networks, and repairing computers. Assisted with the set up of networks and installation of servers for LANs. Monitored email servers for problems and repaired as necessary. Assembled computers for clients. Troubleshot and repaired computer problems. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Information Systems DeVry Institute of Technology - Phoenix, AZ Bachelor of Science in Zoology Washington State University - Pullman, WA Skills .NET (8 years), C# (8 years), C (8 years), Java (6 years), Visual Studio (8 years), C++ (8 years), SQL (4 years), Javascript, Linux Additional Information TECHNICAL EXPERTISE  Software: Android, Eclipse, Visual Studio, CVS, SQL Server, AWS  Languages: C#, Java, JavaScript, SQL, ASP, PHP, HTML, .NET, C/C++  Knowledge / Skills: Team Lead, Agile/Scrum, Object Oriented Design, Software Architecture, Manager-Tools