Engineer Engineer Engineer Cincinnati, OH Work Experience Engineer Belcan Engineering, Heavy Equipment Division - Peoria, IL 2014 to 2015 Autonomous vehicle R&D team at the Caterpillar Tech Center  • Designed the master motion planning module using a state machine approach.  • Did research to become the subject matter expert in Harel State Charts for the team.  • Using C++ in a Linux environment, implemented machine motion heuristics using the Harel State  Chart module within the Boost library.  • Made several trips to customer site (coal mine) in support of the team's mission.  • Received extensive training in Agile methods. Software Engineer II Stryker - MAKO Surgical - Fort Lauderdale, FL 2013 to 2014 • Taught myself TCL in order to complete the programming challenge in the interview process.  • Studied the anatomy of the human knee and hip. Learned to operate the surgical robot.  • Using TCL/TK in a Linux environment, fixed bugs and tested the UI for the surgical robot for knee  and hip implants. Associate (Tenured) Professor of Mathematics and Computer Science Monmouth College - Monmouth, IL 2000 to 2013 • Restructured and taught Introduction to Programming when the Department decided to switch from Pascal to C++ for the course, and to include topics in objected oriented design within the course.  • Taught a wide variety of mathematics courses, including vector calculus, artificial intelligence, logic, linear algebra, complex analysis, and numerical methods.  • Acted as student advisor and mentor to students from a wide variety of majors.  • Presented at regional and national mathematics conferences of the MAA. Consultant, Algorithm Development Optimal Yield Solutions - Cincinnati, OH 2011 to 2012 • Developed, in collaboration with the company owner, a nesting algorithm for a NC panel saw which was delivered ahead of deadline and exceeded the customer's requirements.  • Contributed to the company's research into applications of 3D depth imaging using C# in Visual  Studio and the SDK for the depth camera. Software Developer, Sr. Software Developer SigmaTEK Corporation - Cincinnati, OH 1998 to 2000 Sheet Metal Assembly Flat Pattern Development  • Visited several customer sites to collect requirements and become familiar with shop practices.  • Developed algorithms for flat pattern creation based on parametric models of assemblies.  • Designed data structures and implemented the algorithms using object-oriented design, in Delphi.  • Using OpenGl, created the GUI to allow interactive 3D design of sheet metal assemblies.  • Returned to customer sites to demonstrate the product and gather suggestions for refinements.  Geometric Contour Simplification of Parts Defined by Imported Scanned Data  • Input data consisting of tens of thousands of tiny line segments cannot be handled by cutting  machine controllers - it must be converted into a manageable number of geometric entities while preserving shapes within a specified tolerance.  • Researched the contour simplification and arc recognition problems. Combined a well-known line  simplification heuristic with an arc recognition technique used in GIS software to create an algorithm for processing the input data into a greatly-reduced number of arcs and lines.  • Implemented the algorithm as a DLL using C++ in Visual Studio, using STL containers.  • Exceptional performance of the resulting module may have prevented loss of a multi-million client.  Rectangular Part Nesting  • Many customers cut orders consisting entirely of rectangular parts. Even small gains in yield can  represent tremendous savings.  • Surveyed the extensive literature on rectangle packing, selected several heuristics for testing.  • Documented and refactored a large block of legacy code to allow new functionality to mesh with existing structure.  • Implemented and tested an algorithm combining several heuristics, in Delphi using STL.  • Created several variations at customer request to produce patterns which can be cut by a shear  and by "sheet dragging" cutting tables.  Recent Professional Experience Continued: Education PhD. in Applied Mathematics Northern Illinois University - DeKalb, IL M.A. in Mathematics in Mathematics University of California - Davis, CA B.S. in Mechanical Engineering in Mechanical Engineering University of Illinois - Urbana, IL B.A. in Liberal Arts in Mathematics University of Illinois - Urbana, IL Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/howard-i-dwyer