Senior Software Engineer Senior <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Raleigh-Durham, NC Tenacious and results-oriented software engineer with nearly 20 years of diverse experience. Skilled in designing and developing high-quality, testable code and solutions that are resilient to change. Self-starting team player with proven leadership, problem solving, organizational and interpersonal skills. Work Experience Senior Software Engineer IBM - Raleigh-Durham, NC February 2019 to Present Develop and support perform high-performance ETL for Finance and Operations sector using Spark and Hadoop. Design APIs implemented in Scala for use by downstream consumers of the data.    Use Kubernetes and Docker for deployment of streaming and batch jobs on IBM public cloud. Software Developer SAS Institute, Inc. - Cary, NC November 2012 to Present Full stack developer responsible for the design, development and maintenance of high availability applications used to visualize analytics for school systems, states and other municipalities.    * Initiated and drove effort to transform build pipeline to include Maven, Nexus, Jenkins, Gitlab, automated unitest testing and static analysis with SonarQube  * Performed detailed, ongoing analyses on legacy code base and identify opportunities for strategic improvement across a diverse range of features and concerns  * Key contributor in effort to transition legacy codebase and runtime to Java 8 bytecode running on JBoss EAP 6  * Key contributor in effort to modernize and virtualize all server and infrastructure.  * Lead developer of internal applications and utilities used to track, provision, and deploy applications to all environments  * Led effort to migrate from SVN to Git. Responsible for training developers and installation, administration and support of internal Gitlab instance  * Provide the highest level of support for all customer facing and internal applications.  * Focused on significant strategic initiatives related to process simplification, streamlining, automation, and testing. Software Engineer 2 Intuit Health Group - Cary, NC 2010 to 2012 Software engineer in the patient and practice health space within Intuit's existing and future software offerings. Focused on designing, developing, and supporting delightful user experiences across mobile and web platforms through the innovative use of cutting edge technologies in a massively integrated and highly available software stack. Senior Software Engineer Access Point, Inc. - Cary, NC 2008 to 2010 Responsible for designing scalable web and infrastructure solutions for a small telecomm reseller. Functioned as technical team lead, architect and developer. Software Engineer II Motricity - Durham, NC November 2007 to April 2008 Responsible for designing and developing components for Cingular's mobile and web storefronts. Lead developer for recommendations engine. Staff Software Engineer IBM - Raleigh, NC January 2007 to November 2007 SOA Enablement Specialist consulting for IBM business partners Software Engineer IBM - Raleigh, NC January 2005 to January 2007 Lead developer and architect of Network Security Tool (NST) and related components.    Lead Developer and Assistant Architect for special project with IBM Research India. Results published in IEEE Communications Magazine, January 2007.    Identified and implemented a number of software best-practices within immediate group including version control, automated builds, and unit tests. Network Integrator IBM - Raleigh, NC January 2004 to January 2005 Led effort to design, develop, and deploy an automated security health checking solution for network devices. Served as technical expert focusing on network performance issues related to distributed applications, middleware, and nameservices. IT Specialist IBM - Raleigh, NC May 2001 to January 2004 One of 20 team members who provided highest level of support for critical network services operating on over 120 servers located across North America and Canada. Education BS in Computer Science North Carolina State University at Raleigh - Raleigh, NC July 2001 Skills Java (10+ years), Spring (10+ years), Javascript (5 years), Spring Boot (2 years), Spring Security (8 years), Linux (10+ years), CSS (10+ years), DevOps (8 years), Unit Testing (10+ years), Network Troubleshooting (10+ years), Infrastructure as Code (6 years), SQL (10+ years) Links https://www.baeldung.com/author/chris-oberle Certifications/Licenses Sun Certified Web Component Developer for Java 2 Enterprise Edition Publications BusinessFinder: Harnessing Presence to enable Live Yellow Pages for Small, Medium and Micro Mobile Business https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/4064637/ 2007-01 Applications leveraging network presence in next-generation cellular networks have so far focused on subscription queries, where "presence" information is extracted from specific devices and sent to entities who have subscribed to such presence information. In this article we present BusinessFinder, a service that leverages the underlying cellular presence substrate to provide efficient, on-demand, context-aware matching of customer requests to nomadic micro businesses as well as small and medium businesses having a mobile workforce. Presence, in the context of BusinessFinder, is not simply limited to phone location and device status, but also encompasses dynamic attributes of vendors (both "mobile" and "static"), such as their current availability and workload, expertise and reputation. Besides presenting the architecture and implementation of BusinessFinder with a centralized source of context, we also describe early work on a novel resource-aware query routing algorithm that can efficiently support BusinessFinder query semantics in distributed presence environments of the future