Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Rockford, IL • More than 12 years of experience in Real-Time Embedded Software Design, Development, Verification and Validation, Certification activities of airborne systems as per DO-178B/C.  • Experience in every phase of the V-model Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  • Experience in all levels of Aerospace Safety Standards DO-178B/C.  • Experience in writing the High Level and Low-Level Software Requirements from Customer Spec and ICDs.  • Experience in Software Development and Verification and Validation using Embedded C and Ada  • Experience in Requirements/Design/Code Reviews & Data/Control Coupling Analysis, Structural Coverage Analysis, Memory Analysis, and Timing Analysis.  • Experience in various IDE's like Code Composer Studio and Green Hills Multi 4.2.  • Experience in communication protocols like ARINC 629, ARINC 429 and eCAN.  • Experience in the usage of various configuration management tools like Clear Case, Tortoise Subversion, DOORS, PVCS Dimensions, Synergy CM and Change Synergy.  • Hands-on experience on MATLAB Simulink and State flow using state machines and flow charts.  • Have overall 4 years onsite experience at various Customer locations in the US. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Developer HCL December 2015 to Present Project: Electric Power Generating System    • High Level requirement development through analysis of the system requirements, system architecture and customer specifications.  • Requirements analysis and create software requirements.  • Development of airborne software code as per DO178B/C standards.  • Development of Matlab Simulink models corresponding to system requirements.  • Integration of software modules, integration testing and Software debugging.  • Reviews of requirements/design/code/models.  • Data/Control coupling analysis, Structural coverage analysis, Memory analysis and Timing Analysis.  • Development of uHSIT Test Procedure and Test Case Scenarios.  • Development of verification activities for the change reports.  • Software verification using Emulator, SITE, uHSIT Test methods. Project Lead HCL May 2015 to November 2015 Project: Next Generation Satellite System    • Requirement based Functional testing for Next generation satellite system software.  • Technical reviews of project deliverables including requirements, design, code and verification artifacts.  • Test cases, test procedures and test scripts development as per DO178B/C guideline.  • Integration of software modules, integration testing and software debugging.  • Verification and validation activities for Level-A software per DO178B/C guideline. Project Lead HCL December 2014 to April 2015 Project: Integrated Surveillance System    • Requirement based functional testing for Integrated Surveillance System software modules  • Developed test cases, test procedures and test scripts.  • Performed integration of software modules, integration testing and software debugging.  • Validation of software traceability between system requirement, software requirement and design requirements.  • Structural coverage analysis, data and control coupling analysis.  • Reviews of requirements, test artifacts, code, structural coverage, data and control coupling analysis.  • Performed run for score analysis on the Black label build. Project Lead HCL December 2010 to December 2014 Project: WEATHER RADAR-2100    • High Level requirement development through analysis of the system requirements and system architecture.  • Analysis of software high level requirements, low level requirements and participated in design activities.  • Development of test cases, test procedures and test scripts as per DO178B/C standards using C and assembly coding.  • Integration of software modules, integration testing and software debugging.  • Data Coupling and control coupling analysis and structural coverage analysis as per DO178B/C guideline.  • Formal technical reviews of project deliverable including requirements, design, code and verification artifacts. Lead Engineer HCL March 2010 to November 2010 Project: ARINC 661 Graphics Server    • Requirement based functional testing for ARINC 661 Graphics Server software modules.  • Development of test cases, test procedures and test scripts as per DO178B/C standards using C++.  • Integration of software modules and software debugging.  • Validation of software traceability between software requirement and design requirements  • Reviews of requirements, test artifacts, code, DCCC and Structural coverage analysis.  • Performed run for score analysis. Software Engineer HCL May 2008 to February 2010 • High Level requirement development through analysis of the system requirements and system architecture.  • Analysis of software high level requirements, low level requirements and participated in design activities.  • Development of test cases, test procedures and test scripts as per DO178B/C standards using C and Ada.  • Integration of software modules, integration testing and software debugging.  • Data coupling and control coupling analysis and structural coverage analysis per DO178B/C guideline.  • Performed timing, stack and memory analysis per system requirements and product specifications.  • Validation of software traceability between system requirement, software requirement and design requirements.  • Formal technical reviews of project deliverable including requirements, design, code and verification artifacts.  • Performed run for score analysis. Software Engineer Indage software services and Pvt limited September 2007 to May 2008 • High Level requirement development through analysis of the system requirements and system architecture.  • Development of test cases, test procedures and test scripts as per DO178B/C standards.  • Integration of software modules, integration testing and software debugging.  • Validation of software traceability between system requirement, software requirement and design requirements.  • Formal technical reviews of project deliverable including requirements, design, code and verification artifacts. Education Bachelor's in Electronic Communications Engineering Belgaum, Karnataka Skills C and Ada (10+ years) Additional Information Skills:    Programming Languages: C, Ada and Assembly Language    Hardware Systems: MPC5554, General Processing Module (GPM), Freescale Microcontrollers, Intel 80C196KC, TI TMS320C44 processor, TITMS320VC33, ADSP 21065L processor and ARM Cortex A8    Communication Protocols: ARINC 629, ARINC 429 and eCAN    Standards: RTCA DO-178B and DO-178C    Development Tools: Cygwin gcc compiler, uHSIT, Code Composer, Visual Studios, CISS-Interface Tool, CISS-Data Recorder Tool, WxI-708, DataTrack2100, EM420, FlightTestRecorder, PlaybackApp and Green Hills Multi IDE    Configuration Tools: Telelogic DOORS, Tortoise Sub-version, ClearCase, PVCS. IBM Rational Synergy    Testing Tools: Matlab, Simulink, Ashling Emulator, Pathfinder, Eclipse IDE, Ethernet Manager, Testlink, MI-TERM, Rational Test Real Time (RTRT), VISTA, Understand ADA/ C, Code Composer, Logic Analyzer, ADS-B Sim, Data Recorder, ADSB Sim Playback, LabVIEW simulator, Simgen GSS6700, GNSS Vision and Rule Checker.