Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer El Paso, TX Work Experience Software Developer DXC Technology - El Paso, TX August 2017 to June 2019 Creation/Modification/Maintenance of the Healthcare system.  •Configured IIS sites to create local and server environment systems for testing and live applications.  •Configured Windows services to enable production efficiency and run timed procedures.  •Remotely connected to environment servers to troubleshoot site issues at a fast and efficient form.  •Assisted on OnCall service that monitored site activity and fast response code troubleshoot when issues occurred.  •Used and developed SOAP web services to establish data communication using c#. Software Developer El Paso County Juvenile Probation Department - El Paso, TX August 2015 to April 2017 • Involved in a 3 yr project that redesign the entire El Paso Juvenile Management System using WPF technology.  • The database design involved creating the SQL scheme from scratch with triggers, functions and stored procedures.  • The project consist of developing security modules for external and internal connections through a web version and a desktop version for juvenile information statewide.  • The design was modeled to a way that module integrations could be done easily through the configuration of records in db tables synchronizing all users to the same info.  • C# was used along with ASP for the web version.  • Coding tools like Entity Framework, Crystal Reports, and Windows Reports were also used.  • The management of all juveniles within the facility ran through the system; an approx. load of 10yrs of history and the performance was highly considered to be excellent.  • The application distribution was done with the Click One Microsoft technology.  • Implementation of Real-time information for all users across the application platform was done as well. Software Developer (Intermediate Lead) City of El Paso IT - El Paso, TX September 2013 to August 2015 • Designed and developed windows applications with .Net to capture user information/ submit/ approve documents.  • Designed and developed web applications in Asp C# .Net interacting with SQL databases and structuring the displayed  information using LINQ component structures.  • Designed and implemented most efficient SQL DB schemes for various applications that included normalizing and indexing tables.  • Supported, modified, tested and enhanced various in-house software applications as per user requirements.  • Developed Window Services to notify, extract information, and alert users of various process.  • Developed SOAP and REST Web services for multi-platform development.  • Developed Windows Metro apps for portable devices that took advantage of the device's hardware components (Ex.  Camera). Software Developer II HP Enterprise Services/DXC Technology - El Paso, TX September 2012 to September 2013 • Met with System Analyst to design, gather, document and analyze client’s needs and requirements based on application's performance, stress limitations, and interface components.  • Designed architectures for C#.net programs interacting with Oracle DB and SQL Server DB.  • Estimated projects duration based on feasibility of system, resources, and requirements.  • Analyzed existing software in C#.NET, Java, VB3 for enhancements and/or corrections to increase performance and interact with different hardware components.  • Designed test plan based on various testing strategies (Unit Testing, System Testing, Integration Testing, etc.) Software Developer I Progressive Insurance - Mayfield, OH January 2012 to September 2012 • Designed MVC architectures for C#.net programs communicating with SQL Server databases.  • Gathered, documented and analyzed user needs and software requirements.  • Analyzed existing software for enhancements and/or corrections.  • Developed web forms in C# interacting with SQL databases. High Performance System Research Assistant University of Texas at El Paso - El Paso, TX January 2011 to December 2011 • Researched and simulated the distribution of resource "Fairness" of shared I/O components requesting storage space.  • Helped PH.D. Student Yipkei Kwok with setting up the simulations for I/O algorithms on I/O performance project.  • Involved on Stereo Matching project consisting of finding the disparity map or correspondence points between two  images acquired from different sensor positions and calculating the depth of the object being calculated.  • Researched the Stereo Matching project on its performance in terms of power and energy consumption performance in terms of execution time and output quality. AHPCRC Internship Stanford University - Stanford, CA June 2011 to August 2011 Army High Performance Research Student:  • Involved in a real time simulation project that modified a library called Physbam which included approximately 2800  files in C++ and 11 java files.  • Involved in a team of 4 students developing a real time display and simulation of Physbam in an embedded device, Android Acer Table.  • This project won "Best Project" for the AHPCRC summer internship at Stanford University. Office Specialist El Paso County Auditors - El Paso, TX June 2008 to June 2011 • Scanned and filed county government checks into the El Paso County server.  • Managed and stored 10 different government records involving personal information and checking accounts. Computer Science Tutor University of Texas at El Paso - El Paso, TX August 2010 to January 2011 •Guided undergraduate students in understanding data structures and algorithms.  •Debugged programs for students in the computer science department and created test cases in their code to ensure the programs ran as intended. Peer-Leader (TA) University of Texas at El Paso - El Paso, TX August 2008 to January 2010 • Participated in a team with 7 members that created lessons plans every week for laboratory classrooms.  • Taught groups of 10-17 students twice a week for CS1401 (Introduction to Programming) and CS2401 (Data Structures  and Algorithms)  •Designed a help desk program for the CS students to help them with their class assignments and to review class topics. Sales Associate Circuit City - El Paso, TX November 2007 to January 2008 • Sold and advised customers on PC products for a better investment  • Explained procedures and helped customers resolve computer related issues  • Repaired Customer's PC by removing spyware, viruses and other harmful software Computer Support Specialist Able Contractors - El Paso, TX April 2004 to November 2007 • Gave computer maintenance on a small office network composed of 5 computers  • Organized and maintained records over the companies bills and business related documents  • Coordinated the incoming software installations on the computers Education Bachelors Degree in Computer Science University of Texas at El Paso - El Paso, TX 2011 Irvin High School - El Paso, TX 2005 Skills Database, .net, Software engineering, Html, Php, Asp.Net, Mvc, Java, Database management system, Game development, Database management, Javascript, c#, WPF, Web Services, window services, REST Services, SOAP Servies, Angular