Senior Software Engineer Senior <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Austin, TX * Highly motivated Senior Software Engineer with 15+ years of experience in all areas of SDLC.  * Expert areas are ASP.Net - Web API/MVC, C#, SQL Server, HTML, JavaScript, Angular, JQuery, CSS and integrating with 3rd party APIs.  * Detail oriented, hardworking and focused.  * Won employee of the quarter/year several times for outstanding performances. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Software Engineer DBM Group - Irvine, CA December 2004 to Present DBM Group Inc. is a marketing company that is specialized in providing targeted marketing solutions in a customized way to the clients. During my 14+ years career at DBM Group, I have worked in multiple roles including Systems Analyst, Application Developer, Database Designer and Enterprise Architect. Besides leading and developing several applications with active involvement through the development life cycle, my primary focus is on Electronic Direct Mail System (EDMS) and have refined and improvised several applications under that for performance and efficiency. Promotion Management system, Programmatic Image manipulation system, Production process applications, Auto Invoice creation system, Auto Email System, New Home Owners Only application, Payment Application, Data Analyzers are some of the major applications developed.    • Lead and developed several applications using ASP.Net Web API, MVC, .Net Core, Web Forms, SQL Server, Entity Framework, Angular, JavaScript, JQuery, Html and CSS.  • Designed and created several relational databases for applications and worked extensively with T-SQL (Tables, Views, Stored procedures, Triggers, User Defined Functions). Created schemas, synonyms, linked servers, SQL agent jobs, Imported/Exported data to and from SQL Server and other formats.  • Revised, modularized and updated applications to modern development standards for performance and efficiency. Worked with in-house users and customers to resolve bugs and technical issues.  • Analyzed and optimized time consuming queries to run faster in SQL Server and experience in attaching/detaching DB, backup/restore DB, troubleshooting SQL Server processes to identify dead locks and current execution query, killing processes.  • Worked with several payment processor APIs integrating credit card processing and bank account processing to applications.  • Created and consumed Rest APIs using token-based authentication - OAuth, JWT, JSON.  • Worked with Bing Maps & Google Maps APIs, geo spatial data and SQL server spatial functionalities.  • Have created several reports using SSRS.  • Worked with Google AdWords to set up campaigns through 3rd party and provided clients with efficient way to track their pay per click campaigns.  • Worked with phone call tracking APIs to track customers phone calls for redemption analysis and provided them with reports.  • Worked with several "live chat" and heat map APIs. Experience with texting APIs to text message clients about their order status and other information.  • Worked on several applications that exports information in customized formats to PDF, Excel, XML.  • Worked with image manipulation on web application using JQuery, JavaScript and GDI+.  • Experience creating web site, app pool, application in IIS  • Worked in a team for PCI and SOC2 compliance.  • Worked in a team to convert web application to SSO/OAuth.  • Experience with mobile app development using Xamarin Forms.  • Mentored and trained new/junior employees.  • Delegated tasks and managed/collaborated projects/efforts. Web Developer Be The Cause - Tustin, CA March 2003 to December 2004 Be The Cause is a non-profit organization that organizes local community service opportunities, supports relief efforts worldwide, builds awareness of issues facing our global community, and creates an environment that is conducive to the growth of compassion. I was responsible for developing and maintaining their web sites using HTML, CSS, PHP, JavaScript and SQL Server.  • Designed, Implemented and monitored web pages and sites for continuous improvement.  • Set up event registration page with payment.  • Created site layout and user interface using HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Worked with PayPal APIs for credit card processing.  • Worked with T-SQL for database manipulation.  • Created reports using Crystal Reports.  • Resolved bugs and technical issues and optimized web sites. Education Masters in Computer Science in Computer Science MAHATMA GANDHI UNIVERSITY 2000 to 2002 Post graduate diploma in Computer Applications in Computer Applications SACRED HEART COLLEGE - Kerala, India 1998 to 1999 Skills .NET, VISUAL STUDIO, API, C#, Git, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, JSON, .NET CORE, ASP.NET WEB API, OAUTH, VB.NET, XAMARIN, ADO, SQL SERVER, SQL, SQLITE, ASP, CSS, IIS, NET Additional Information Technical Skills  • C#, VB.NET  • ASP.NET Web API, MVC, .Net Core, Web Forms, Xamarin Forms  • Entity Framework, LINQ, ADO .Net, Structure Maps  • SQL Server, T-SQL, SQLite  • HTML, JavaScript, Angular, jQuery, CSS  • REST API, OAuth, JSON, JWT, Web services  • SSRS  • Team Foundation Sever, GIT TFS  • Visual Studio, IIS