Sr. Software Engineer Sr. <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Sr. Software Engineer - Wells Fargo Pleasant Hill, CA • Sr. Programmer Analyst/ Software Developer with over twelve (12) years of experience in the development of multi-tier client/server applications, including internet/intranet application development using .Net Framework 1.1/2.0/3.5/4.0/4.5  • Extensive expertise with client/server, web-based, multi-tier applications using .Net technologies such as ASP.Net, ASP.Net MVC, C#, VB.Net, Web Services, IIS, Angular JS, JQuery, Java Script, VB Script, HTML, DHTML, XML, XSL, XSLT, ADO.Net, CSS, HTTP, Ajax  • Experience writing complex database queries and stored procedures using SQL Server and Oracle  • Worked with version maintenance systems like Microsoft Visual Source safe, Team Foundation Server and Git, tortoise GIT.  • Proficient in using third party controls such as Infragistics  • Experience developing WEB APIs in ASP.NET  • Experience in building Job schedulers using Quartz.NET (Job scheduling framework) 2.x/3.x  • Integrated Cybersource payment Web API  • Ideal mix of front-end user interface design skills and back end control logic development  • Strong knowledge of Object-Oriented design methodologies and design patterns  • Expertise in system requirement study, test plan preparation, unit testing and system integration testing  • Experience developing reports with Crystal Reports and SSRS  • Experience implementing Model-view-controller (MVC) architecture using ASP.Net MVC framework  • Proficient in creating and understanding UML Class Diagrams, DB Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams and use cases Work Experience Sr. Software Engineer Wells Fargo - San Leandro, CA June 2018 to Present Project - CRU (Client Review Utility) - CRU is the web application developed to audit the Analyst's changes to the client information by the Reviewers. Application has the ability to score, challenge and track the performance of the reviewers and analysts and generate reports and emails for leadership.  Application is integrated with Quartz.net to schedule jobs to pull data from other system into CRU weekly/on demand, schedule email notifications to the users at different intervals based on their time zones.    • Designed the workflows of the system and created functional specifications  • Involved in designing and creating the database in SQL Server.  • Developed the application using ASP.NET, C#, JQuery, bootstrap, Quartz.net  • Created multiple stored procedures, functions and triggers in SQL  • Implemented Unit test cases for the features developed    Environment: VS.NET 2015, C#, SQL Server 2015, ASP.NET, JQuery, HTML, Bootstrap, Quartz.net, Web Services Sr. Software Engineer Certent Inc - Pleasanton, CA November 2017 to June 2018 Certent is an industry leading software as service provider for Equity management, accounting and reporting functions for over 10 years. Certent EM is a hosted SaaS solution to manage equity compensation for both private and public companies.    • Involved in development of the application using MVC WebAPI, C#, AngularJS, HTML and Oracle  • Developed components in Angular JS to be used throughout application  • Created multiple stored procedures, functions and triggers in PL/SQL  • Wrote Unit test cases for the features developed  • Implemented multiple open source components in the project like fluent validation, predicate builder etc.    Environment: VisualStudio.NET 2015, C#, VB.Net, Oracle11g/12c, ASP.NET MVC 5, WebAPI 2, Angular JS, JSON, Entity Framework Sr. Software Developer California Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation - Sacramento, CA October 2016 to November 2017 The California Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation (CDCR) Board of Parole Hearing's (BPH) Information Technology System (BITS) provides a platform to support all of the BPH business processes including consultations, parole suitability hearings, medical parole hearings, etc.    • Involved in development of the BITS system using .NET technologies  • Created technical design documents based on the client requirements  • Implemented CSLA framework in the application as business layer for the application  • Created multiple reports using SSRS  • Involved in creating deployment plans and creating migration scripts    Environment: VisualStudio.NET 2003/2010/2013, .NET 4.0, ASP.NET, Oracle11g, TOAD, TFS, SSRS, JQuery, JavaScript and CSLA Certent Inc March 2017 to March 2017 Employee annual event  Implemented web based dashboard to track the current live users of the application, most used webpages, app users traffic analysis from application logs using Elastic Search, Kibana and logstash. Tech Lead California Continuing Education of Bar - Oakland, CA March 2014 to October 2016 Continuing Education of Bar is a legal publisher and continuing legal education provider serving lawyers practicing in California. CEB produces, in print and electronic formats, a variety of practice tools containing legal information and knowledge for the practicing lawyers.    • Performed the initial analysis to provide high level work estimates  • Gathered the business needs to develop complete business requirements and application design specifications  • Validated and refined specifications with the business owners and IT teams  • Designed and developed applications and participated in code reviews  • Defined and developed interfaces with other systems  • Developed test plans including system integration testing and user acceptance testing to ensure the business needs were met and applications functioned properly  • Developed and implemented deployment plans  • Created user documentation and provided user training as needed.  • Developed specifications that include Use Cases, Class Diagrams, flow charts and Sequence Diagrams.  • Implemented Web API's using ASP.NET, C#  • Implemented payment gateway integration with Cybersource Web API  • Created technical documentation for future development and troubleshooting  • Maintained production systems as assigned. Enhanced functionalities to meet the business and security requirements  • Troubleshot problems and provided resolutions  • Monitored applications performance and performed tuning as needed (e.g. search engine optimization)  • Monitored production systems usage and health to ensure capacity and availability    Environment: VisualStudio.NET 2003/2010/2013, .NET 2.0/4.5, Classic ASP, ASP.NET, ASP.NET MVC, Entity Framework, SQL Server 2008/2012, Visual Source Safe (VSS), MS Test, SSRS, SSIS, JQuery, JavaScript and MS VISIO Sr. Software Developer Employee Development Department - Sacramento, CA June 2011 to March 2014 The Continued Claims Redesign (CCR) project serves the purpose (for the California EDD department) of maintaining unemployment insurance claims. This application (internet and intranet Web application) is used by both the staff and also the claimant to file the claims.    • Involved in analysis, design and development of the unemployment insurance system. Developed specifications that include Use Cases, Class Diagrams and Sequence Diagrams  • Created design documents based on the client requirements  • Developed interfaces and screens from the technical design documents interacting with the technical designers and functional staff from time to time  • Involved in technical and functional design sessions and provided solutions better suited for the requirements  • Created all layers (Facade, Business Service and Data Access) as per the framework standards using C#, XML and WCF  • Developed the business rule components using ILOG business rule engine and created the interface that interacted with the application  • Created automated and manual unit test cases and tested the components developed against the same using the Visual Studio/MS Test framework    Environment: VisualStudio.NET 2008, .NET 3.5, ASP.NET, WCF, SQL Server 2008, Team Foundation Server (TFS), MS VISIO, MS Test, SSRS and SSIS Sr. Programmer/Analyst ESPN - Bristol, CT November 2009 to June 2011 Production and Operation Playbook (Phoenix) is a Windows application built with .NET 3.5 and WCF.  The application was used for both scheduling and HR tracking. It helped the users like directors and producers to schedule employees and vendors to work on items like TV shows or live matches based on their role and department. It enabled the HR department to view employee information like Paid Time Off, employment info, work history etc. It also helped to generate reports like the daily production reports, schedule reports and PTO reports using ASP.NET.    Environment: VisualStudio.NET 2008, .NET 3.5, Win forms, C#, WCF, Oracle 11g, Team Foundation Server (TFS), NUnit, PL/SQL and Crystal Reports Sr. Programmer/Analyst XL Capital - Hartford, CT October 2008 to November 2009 This application was the interface to the customer data of the XL Insurance/reinsurance division. This application is used to view, edit and insert the individual/organization information like identification details, addresses, contacts, special notes, 360 detail view of the organization, name maintenance, grouping maintenance etc. Reports were generated in PDF and MS Excel format using SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS). The Windows Application was migrated to smart client application.    The CDI application interacts with the SQL Server database using Web services. This application is used by the different types of users with different roles like admin, CND user, NC users etc. Each of the users have different levels of accessibility to the application. This was achieved through "role based access control" which was developed using C# in the CDI system    Environment: .NET 3.5, ASP.NET, Visual Studio 2008, XML, Web services, C#, SQL Server 2005 and Ajax Sr. Programmer Analyst The Hartford - Hartford, CT August 2007 to July 2008 The application automated the onboarding/off boarding process of employees. Some of the functionality in the application includes submission of onboard/off board requests, modifying/cancelled the existing requests, renewal of requests, assignment of the hardware/ software resources, and information masking depending on the user role. The application also has the ability to view the pending requests to be completed by the task owners/administration managers so that they could check off completed items.    Environment: Visual Studio 2005, ASP.NET, C#, .NET 2.0, Visual Studio 2005, SQL Server 2005 and DTS Sr. Software Engineer IGATE Global Solutions - Bengaluru, Karnataka January 2005 to July 2007 India  Worked on multiple offshore projects for the clients like Royal Bank of Canada, Jersey, Channel Island, License Online, Japan, Yazaki Corporation, Japan, Tyco Healthcare and Japan.    Environment: ASP.NET 1.1/2.0, Winforms, C#, JavaScript, XML, XSLT, SQL Server 2000/2005, Rational Rose and Oracle 9i Education Master of Computer Applications in Computer Applications Osmania University - Hyderabad, Telangana Bachelors of Computer Science in Computer Science Osmania University - Hyderabad, Telangana Skills Ajax, Asp, Css, Dhtml, Iis, Iis 5, Asp.net, Ms access, Sql server, Sql server 2000, Oracle, Sql, .net, Microsoft visual studio, Visual studio, Api, C#, Git, Html, Javascript, Java Links http://Quartz.NET Additional Information SKILLS  Development Technologies .Net 1.1/2.0/3.5/4.0/4.5, ASP.NET, ASP.NET MVC, Web API, Entity Framework VB.NET, C#, VBA, Ajax, WCF  Web/Application Servers IIS 5.1/6.0/8.0/10  Web Presentation XML, XSLT, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, CSS, JQuery, Angular JS  Operating Systems Windows 2000 and Windows 7  Databases SQL Server 2000/2005/2008, MS Access, Oracle 12c/11g/10g/9i  Tools    Version Management    Microsoft Visual Studio.NET 2003 to 2017, MS Visio, SSRS, SSIS, Crystal reports, Load Complete  MS VSS 6.0, Team Foundation Server (TFS), Git, Tortoise GIT