Sr. Application Analyst Sr. Application Analyst Sr. Application Analyst - First Data, Corp Buford, GA With experience as a C/C++ developer stemming from a childhood interest to learn C and 6800/68000 assembly language in the 80s, I have made use of many technologies including making use of C++, Java, SQL, R,   Python, JavaScript. Specializing in designing and implementing high performance and highly available systems  for UNIX and Windows.  My industry of focus has been Payment Processing including Prepaid, Debit, Association Routing and EMV, in  both the Frontend Authorization and Backend Settlement areas. Cryptography and Network Application Security  using well known and custom algorithms are also in my career experience. As well as data analysis using statistical methods and practices of machine learning. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Application Analyst First Data, Corp ( now Fiserv ) - Atlanta, GA 2009 to Present Debit Processing Senior Developer and Debit Routing S.M.E.  Implement High Volume High Performance Systems, Data Analysis  Analysis of very large data sets using statistics and techniques of machine learning Software Analyst FIS / eFunds - Sunrise, FL 2002 to 2009 Finanical Settlement Systems Developer  Data Center Custom Software Designer and Engineer  Trending and forecasting using statistical methods for processing capacity Software Developer Tangent Associates, Inc. - Davie, FL 2001 to 2002 Embedded Linux Systems Developer for POS Systems  Library and API Writer for Development Teams Head of Research and Development Dynamic Imaging, Corp. - Miami, FL 1998 to 2001 Established complete process for multi-platform development of entire product suite. Developed standard processes for documenting, designing, and writing all software Software Developer Advanced Information Technologies - Aventura, FL 1997 to 1998 Worked on Design and development of a corporate service/repair and dispatch system. Multilanguage environment allowed for development of COM components using ATL CNC Programmer / Prototyping Machinist R/M Equipment, Inc. - Miami, FL 1994 to 1997 Designed product manufacturing processes for military and police weapondary. Developed software for computer automated mass production machinery. Education High school or equivalent Skills C++ (10+ years), Java (10+ years), Javascript (10+ years), SQL (10+ years), awk (6 years), Machine Learning (2 years), Data Analysis (10+ years), Python (3 years), R (3 years)