Senior Software Engineer Senior <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Groton, MA Software engineer with over eight years of experience in analyzing, designing and developing client/server, internet/intranet and database applications. Technical expertise in back-end application programming using Java, C, C++, and OO methodologies and various databases like Oracle, Sybase, Informix and SQL Server. Sun Certified Programmer for the Java 2 Platform. Work Experience Senior Software Engineer Your Soultion Provider September 2013 to Present Responsible for designing and developing Task Tracker application to keep track of various stages of projects. Effectively mentored and worked with offshore resource in India to complete the project.  Technical Environment: MySQL, Wampserver, Eclipse, JSP Independent Consultant New England Tamil Sangam January 2009 to June 2013 Web developer, NETS (New England Tamil Sangam): As a member of the team, I was responsible for collecting the requirements, designing the database tables, and developing and testing RSVP application to collect members' RSVP response to attend cultural events. The application helped reduce cumbersome manual collection and processing of data to plan cultural meetings. Also developed SQL scripts for generating the table and test data.  Technical Environment: MySQL, PHP and Apache Web Server (wampserver 2.2).    - Math coordinator, Groton-Dunstable elementary school district - When I noticed that the elementary School in our area lacked any competitive math program to challenge the kids, I took full initiative to talk to school officials to get the approval to start an after school math program. Responsible for researching and designing the entire curriculum for the math program based on nationwide CML (Continental Math League) program, and coordinating the volunteers to set up and run the Math Inspiration Club. Senior Software Engineer PWI Defined Benefits, Fidelity - Marlborough, MA September 2006 to December 2008 As a core member, responsible for communicating effectively with the business in getting the requirements, analyzing, designing and developing reports and applications. I was involved with developing and enhancing DBCS and DBES applications using .NET C++ and Java. Also responsible for developing various financial reports using Hyperion-SQR, Stored procedures and Informatica.  Technical Environment  Visual Studio .Net C++, Hyperion SQR, Informatica, Sybase Adaptive Server 12.x, Oracle, Clearcase, Shell scripts, Java JDK 1.4, BEA Weblogic 8.1, XML SPY 5, IBM Clearcase version: 7.0    Accomplishments  - Lead the process improvement initiative to introduce Qlife process for reporting team and successfully implemented it.  - Worked with Systems team and Release management team in implementing a weekly release process for val files  - Standardized monthly install coordinator tasks that are used across the reporting team.  - SP2I (Security, Private and Proprietary Information ) Certified Information Protection Professional  - Completed Fesco Six Sigma White Belt Training.  - Nominated for the best employee of the quarter award. Also, received awards of recognition for best performance and team excellence award. Summer Internship, Progress Software Progress Software - Nashua, NH June 2006 to August 2006 OpenEdge Architect is an integrated business application development platform built using Java and Eclipse IDE. Eclipse plug-ins is used for the seamless integration of various business components, thereby providing a very flexible and scalable business application development platform.  Technical Environment  Java, Eclipse, Clearcase, JTest and OpenEdge  Responsibilities  As part of the development team responsible for sustaining and optimizing the code. Also responsible for fixing rule violations to improve the maintainability of the code. Software Developer Opal Systems Inc January 2006 to May 2006 Responsible for designing and developing a custom application for maintaining and generating customer specific product licenses (for controlling features, server platforms and users) for a technology startup.  Technical Environment: Linux, Java, MySql, JDBC Volunteer Infancy to Independence - Acton, MA January 2004 to December 2005 Chairperson of the cognitive committee in a social services organization. Primary responsibilities include providing direction and developing the curriculum. Responsible for developing and providing software support. Volunteer Indian Organization September 2001 to December 2003 Voluntarily involved in the design and development of a custom application using NFP Toolkit, a volunteer database management and communications software. Volunteer Indian Organization 2002 to 2002 2002  Developed a web-application for a tourism company. The customers could get information about vacation packages based on availability. The tourism company could also update their vacation specials online.  Technical Environment: IIS Server, MS SQL Server, JSWDK, Java script, servlets, JSP, ASP Project lead Nielsen Media - Largo, FL January 2001 to August 2001 for a team of five to re-engineer mainframe applications to client-server based applications to report on various special programs aired on TV. The reports are generated for any category, region and date window as specified by the customer.  Technical Environment  Embedded SQL, C++, Rogue wave Tools, Sybase, Unix Shell Scripts Consulting Software Engineer Software Architects - Tampa, FL August 1995 to August 2001 As a software consultant, apart from working on client projects, actively involved in mentoring fellow consultants, and presenting seminars on latest web technologies. Lead the design and development efforts of DiMON OSPrint Home Shopping Network - Saint Petersburg, FL July 1999 to December 2000 Order summaries print) application (the catalog and mail order system) for processing customer orders that would interact with MOVE warehouse management system to generate pick tickets and order summaries.  Technical Environment  Oracle Pro*C/C++, Oracle PL/SQL triggers, MOVE (Optum's warehouse management software), ZPL, Ultraedit, Printproof ACNielson Assortment Manager Catalina Marketing - Saint Petersburg, FL February 1998 to June 1999 an application to extract frequent shopper's data and generate purchase and market reports. These reports would then be combined with the demographic data to help manufacturers and retailers analyze the market. The reports are generated for any category, region and date window as specified by the customer. Optimized performance running time from 4 days to 4 hours.  Technical Environment  DEC Alpha/UNIX 4.0, IBM OS2, C/C++, Pro*C, Oracle 8.0, Autosys, Red Brick, Brio Query, Visio, Syncsort Software Engineer Salomon Brothers Inc - Tampa, FL January 1997 to February 1998 Responsible for the design and development of the software package to manage the financial futures data. The application included dynamic Ingres-to-Sybase data transfer module and external interfaces report generator.  Technical Environment  SUN OS.UNIX, ESQL C/C++, Sybase Open Client (10.0.3) DB-Library, Sybase SQL Server System 11.0.2, Transact SQL, Perl5, Autosys, CA Open-Ingres, Silverun, Rogue Wave (Tools.h++ 4.0.5) and Java JDK 1.1 Software Developer NUS Information Services - Tampa, FL December 1996 to January 1997 Worked on RAPID (Readily Accessible Parts Information Directory) system, which is an Extranet based secure application that provides inventory data pooling of equipment to subscribing customers and to handle online ordering.  Technical Environment  Oracle 7.0 PL/SQL with Web extensions, Oracle Web Server on Windows NT platform and Oracle 7.0 Software Developer GTE Data Services - Tampa, FL December 1995 to December 1996 Involved with the engineering of the Carrier Access Billing System (CABS) for GTE Data Services. The system was designed to handle all transactions from billing and accounting procedures to collections and network usage of all long distance carriers that access GTE.  Technical Environment    HP Model 712/80 (9000, HP UNIX 9.05), C++, OSP 4.1.2, Object Center, Informix, SQL Software Developer Hewitt Associates - Tampa, FL October 1995 to November 1995 Designed and developed the home page using HTML for Hewitt Associates, a global consulting firm, to reflect the company's philosophy and for easier customer interaction. Wrote CGI scripts to handle user data. Software Developer Florida Institute of Technology - Melbourne, FL August 1994 to June 1995 Melbourne, Florida. August 1994 - June 1995  Designed and developed a compiler for MINI-ADA in C++. Acted as the web master for the CS department. Software Developer Bureau of Data Processing Systems June 1991 to March 1993 for handling multilingual telegraph messages. Education Telecommunications Management and ECommerce Worcester Polytechnic Institute 2002 M.S. in Computer Science Florida Institute of Technology 1995 B.S. in Electronics & Communication Engineering Madras University - Chennai, Tamil Nadu 1991 Additional Information Technical skills  Language: Java , Unix and .Net C++, C, Pro*C, Embedded SQL  Database: Oracle PL/SQL, Sybase 12.5, Transact SQL, Informix Microsoft SQL Server, JDBC, Hyperion-SQR, Informatica, MySQL  Internet: HTML, PHP and Apache Web Server (wampserver 2.2), Perl 5, Java, Java script, JSP, Java Servlets, JSDWK, IIS Server, ASP  Operating System: UNIX (SUN, DEC Alpha, HP), LINUX, Win NT Server 4.0, MS DOS, IBM OS/2  Software: Syncsort, Autosys, Clearcase, Reflection, Brio, Eclipse, JTest,  Methodologies / Tools: OOA/OOD, UML, Visio, Araxis Merge, XML SPY