Full-Stack Agile Lead Developer Full-Stack Agile Lead <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full-Stack Agile Lead Developer - Leidos Ellicott City, MD Mr. Tatavarthi is a Certified SCRUM Master (CSM), Certified SCRUM Product Owner (CSPO) and having extensive knowledge of business and technical. Mr. Tatavarthi worked as a Team Lead with over 19+ years of experience in government, Mortgage and service industries. Kiran thrives when working in a team environment where he has been leading projects for over nine years. He has experience in analysis, design, development, implementation and testing of applications using Java, J2EE, Jenkins, Rally, Version One, JSP, JDeveloper, OSB, SOAP Web Services, Restful Web Services, EJB, JPA, JBPM,  SVN, JMS, Struts, Db2, SQL, JDBC, XML, HTML, RAD and various NODE JS modules. Kiran has strong communication skills and works daily with management and team members. Work Experience Full-Stack Agile Lead Developer Leidos November 2016 to Present Date of Employment: November 2016 To Present  Skills Utilized:  • Java(1.8)/J2EE, SOAP Web Services, Restful web services, J- Developer, Putty, ANT, Win SCP, JPA, Oracle Service Bus (OSB), Oracle SOA Suite, HP ALM, Rally, Oracle 12C, SQL  Developer, XSD, XML, XPath, Sonar Qube, J-Unit, J-Mockup, Windows Vista, Visio, MS Power point etc    DAS provide data access web services across Imports/SIRCE applications to allow consumers to Create, Read, Update, Delete (CRUD) data in the Imports/SIRCE databases. DAS is the service layer which isolates different legacy applications from the Databases. DAS communicates with different applications using Data Integration Hub (DIH). DIH was implemented using Oracle Service Bus (OSB). Because of DAS and DIH modules, now legacy applications have more cleaner way to perform CRUD operations from different databases. This is a multi-year project and DAS service will be rolled out to different legacy applications across FDA agency. This DAS layer eliminates the complexity of the current environment to perform the database CRUD operations as well as implementing the business rules associated with the data.    Duties and Responsibilities:  • As SCRUM team member, participated in daily stand up meeting.  • Participated in all agile ceremonies like Sprint planning, backlog grooming, Sprint retrospective etc..  • Developed generic Restful web service which take inputs (JSON, XML, text as well as Serialized Java Objects) and transforms into XmlObject. The XmlObject will be passed to Data Access service.  • The generic web service also returns the response in the form of JSON/XML/text  • Developed framework components which are available in the form of JAR files so that all the modules can consume these framework JAR files.  • Decoupled different DAS components so that the Das components are independent of schema changes.  • DAS components decoupling also allows different DAS components at different schema versions.  • Resolved JPA caching issue. Configured JPA so that only specific entities can be cached.  • Fine-tuned data source configuration so that application performance will be improved.  • Participated in code review process so that the clean code can be merged into SVN repository.  • Worked closely with Data modelers (logical and physical) to finalize the data models for various functional areas. Full-Stack Agile Lead Developer Common Securitization Solutions (CSS) February 2016 to November 2016 Skills Utilized:  • Java/J2EE, Spring Test Suite (STS), Putty, Jenkins, Win SCP, TIBCO MQ, JMS, SCM Manager, GIT, HSQL, SPLUNK, NEXUS, Rally, Oracle, SQL Developer, Cucumber, GEMS, XML, XSL, XPath,, CSS Cascaded Style sheet, Struts, Windows Vista, Visio, MS Power point etc    Common Securitization Solutions is building the Common Securitization Platform (CSP) to support Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac under the direction of FHFA for mortgage loans backed by single-family properties. Goal is to reduce or eliminate the trading disparities that exist today between the Enterprises' (Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac) securities.    The components of the Single Security initiative include aligning:  • Key features, which will mainly follow Fannie Mae's mortgage-backed securities (MBS) structure  • Investor disclosures, which will generally follow Freddie Mac's Participation Certificates (PCs)  • Certain policies and practices related to the removal of loans from securities. In addition, the Single Security effort will allow investors to exchange their legacy 45-day Freddie Mac Participation Certificates (PCs) for new 55-day Single Securities issued by Freddie Mac.    Duties and Responsibilities:  • As Lead Agile Developer, managed development team.  • Participated in all agile ceremonies like Sprint planning, backlog grooming, Sprint retrospective etc..  • Developed CSS (Common Securitization Solutions) application modules using Event Driven Architecture  • Organized weekly team meetings along with developers meeting to discuss the progress of the pending items and helped team to come up with architectural solutions.  • Participated team building activities.  • Participated in all phases of the systems development life cycle, with emphasis on design, development/programming, documentations, testing and implementation.  • Developed Java handlers for different events.  • Developed Service classes with DAOs to persist and fetch the data into or from the database  • Actively participated in defect triage and helped module and Integration test team members to resolve or identify the root cause of the issues  • Developed different topics and queues for different events and wrote the corresponding Bridge file entries  • Developed HSQL file to decouple the physical database dependency  • Performed activities such as: system software installation, configuration, testing, optimization, evaluation, maintenance, documentation, and user support. Prepared test data, test, debugs and refines applications software.  • Provided technical assistance to less experienced personnel in the resolution of system related problems. Ensured accurate translations of technical specifications into programming specifications.  • Completed all user stories on time in each Sprint  • Used Spring Test Suite (STS) to develop feature files in Java  • Used GEMS to drop the scenario specific XMLs into the TIBCO Topic so that the message will be bridged to the respective queue.  • Used WinSCP for copying .war file from local machine to Unix box while deploying manual Jenkins build to component testers  • Used Putty for analyzing the errors instantly during the component testing  • Conducted code reviews for all the cucumber test classes  • Used SPLUNK for analyzing log files  • Used Jenkins for deploying the application in various test environments  • Used Rally for defect and user story tracking purpose  • Closely worked with business people and management about test strategies Full-Stack Agile developer Accenture Federal Systems, SSA contract Position Title August 2015 to February 2016 Skills Utilized:  • Node.Js, Express.Js, React.Js, Postgre SQL Database, Redis, Version One, GIT Stash and many NODE modules.    The Case Processing System helps Disability examiner to Receipt, Assign and helps to determine a disability case. Case Processing System need to interact with many SSA systems using Redis, WMQ, Restful services.    Duties and Responsibilities:  • As SCRUM team member, participated in daily stand up meeting.  • Participated in all agile ceremonies like Planning Increment Program Event (PIPE), Sprint planning, backlog grooming, Sprint retrospective etc..  • As SCRUM developer, Developed interface with other SSA applications using Redis.  • Used XML2JS and JS2XML node modules for transforming JSON object to XML and vice versa.  • Used Node Async module to make sure that the transactions executes in the specified order.  • Used KNEX query builder for various database operations including transaction management  • Used Moment node module for date formatting/conversion issues  • Used NODE module Lodash (collection) for various String and Array related operations • Used test driven develop approach to complete the tasks.  • Wrote automated test cases using node modules Chai and Mocha  • Used Version One for tracking the status of various tasks  • Was part of Pair Programming  • Participated in code review process so that the clean code can be merged into Stash repository.  • Worked closely with Data modelers (logical and physical) to finalize the data models for various functional areas. Senior Java Developer Lockheed Martin, DCPS (SSA) Contract Position Title October 2011 to August 2015 Number and type of personnel supervised: Thirteen members including five developers and Five  Validation team members and three requirements analysts    Skills Utilized:  • Java/J2EE, RAD 8.0, JPA, Web Services, JSP, EJB, XML, XSL, XPath,, CSS Cascaded Style sheet, Struts, Windows Vista, WebSphere MQ, JMS, MKS, Visio, MS Power point, HTML and SSL etc..    The Disability Case Processing System (DCPS) program moves SSA from its current fragmented, multiple-application environment to a modernized common Disability Case Management system.  Currently, the Disability Determination Service (DDS) field offices verify basic eligibility requirements before routing claims to the DDSs, where disability determinations are rendered. The creation of this system will provide common functionality and consistent support to each DDS. This is a multi-year project and the application will be rolled out to all the states across USA. Introduction of a single system will eliminate the complexity of the current environment, which currently constrains the flexibility of the system to accept updates as required by changes in regulations, laws, or business rules.    Duties and Responsibilities:  • Developed interfaces with other SSA applications like EFI, NDDSS, ERE using JMS (Java Messaging Service) and IBM Websphere MQ.  • Resolved team member's impediments by facilitating meetings or by talk to the team members.  • Protected team members from outsiders so that team can concentrate on the Biweekly build goals.  • Provided technical support to cross IPTs during their design and implementation phases  • Helped product owner to set the priorities for Product backlog Items (PBI)  • Analyzed many production issues and other higher environment (DIET, ATE, TRG) application issues, proposed the fixes and helped team to fix the issues in many different functional areas.  • Developed functional flow diagrams for all DCPS functional are intended for all developers and VAL team members. Functional flow diagrams including all 30+ DCPS interfaces details and details of different DCPS functional areas.  • Organized weekly team meetings along with developers meeting to discuss the progress of the pending items and helped team to come up with architectural solutions.  • Participated team building activities.  • Participated in all phases of the systems development life cycle, with emphasis on design, development/programming, documentations, testing and implementation.  • Performed activities such as: system software installation, configuration, testing, optimization, evaluation, maintenance, documentation, and user support. Prepared test data, test, debugs and refines applications software.  • Provided technical assistance to less experienced personnel in the resolution of system related problems. Ensured accurate translations of technical specifications into programming specifications.  • Resolved production issues and issues in all higher environments. Senior Java Developer Lockheed Martin, AWSSC/ITSSC (SSA) contract Position Title May 2005 to October 2011 Skills Utilized:  • Java5, RAD 7.0, Servlets, JSP, EJBs, XML, XSL, XPath,, CSS Cascaded Style sheet, Struts, Windows Vista, WebSphere MQ, MKS, HTML and SSL etc..    Electronic Folder Interface (EFI), EDCS and eView applications are critical to the Disability Service  Improvement (DSI) and eDIB processing. EFI is acting like a traffic cop between the legacy systems and federal systems like EDCS/eView. EFI processes over two million messages a day from the Disability Determination Service Centers and other Disability interfaces. The EFI is a backend application that requires in-depth knowledge of interfacing applications within the disability process as well as expertise in Java 5, XML, XSL, WMQ. DB2, RAD and Websphere Application Server. EDCS is the critical application used by Field Office users to establish a case, transfer a case in Electronic Folder. EDCS also involves in processing of cases. eView is used by legacy systems to display all the case information of a case.    Duties and Responsibilities: Development support for Division of Electronic Disability Systems (DEDS) Electric Folder Interface (EFI), Electronic Disability Collect Ssystem (EDCS) and eView applications. Participated in all phases of the systems development life cycle, with emphasis on design, development/programming, documentations, testing and implementation. Performed activities such as: system software installation, configuration, testing, optimization, evaluation, maintenance, documentation, and user support. Prepared test data, test, debugs and refines applications software. Provided technical assistance to less experienced personnel in the resolution of system related problems. Ensured accurate translations of technical specifications into programming specifications. Resolved production issues and performs error analysis on different EFI transactions for all the DDS community. Analyzed internal or external customers' needs, and determines equipment and software requirements for solutions to problems by means of automated systems. Developed customized solutions to customer problems. Wrote Junit test scripts to identify any defects in the backward compatibility of ten existing versions of the current software. Programmer Analyst Washington Mutual Bank November 2004 to April 2005 Duties and Responsibilities: Support for existing system and defining the business process flow for new enhancements by capturing all requirements from business users.    Skills Utilized:  • Java2, Servlets, JSP, EJBs, BEA Web Logic 8.1, Oracle 9i, XML, XSL, Struts, Win NT    Consumer lending is the customer service loan application. The customer service agents to provide call services to the customers those who have taken loan from WaMu use this tool. The main business functionality of this application is to keep track of all the services provided for each customer account. Application contains the following modules: Logging Tasks: Creating new tasks like manual check request, letter request, adding life of loan Comments, and request for address change. Generating Letters & Checks: Generates letters to customer for example Address Change Template. Activity Log History: Show the activities performed on any account at any point of time.  Designed and developed pages using XML, HTML, Java Script and Servlets using Java Servlet API for handling client requests. Developed Entity and Session EJBs for processing Manual Checks and for activity log database transactions. Developed Message Driven EJBs for processing Automatic Checks also for Workflow, Expiration Notification Items. Used Oracle as a backend database storage for Consumer Lending loan account activity logs and activity Meta data. Wrote System Configuration & Deployment docs. Struts used as application's architecture. Also, Trained users & performing user acceptance testing. Programmer/Analyst GE Power Systems February 2003 to November 2004 Duties and Responsibilities: Responsible for the Design and Development of business and presentation logic. Designed and developed pages using JSP, Servlet, XML, HTML, and DHTML.    Skills Utilized:  • Java2, J2EE Technologies, Websphere5.0, WSAD5.0, JDBC2.0, Oracle 8i, SQL, PL/SQL, XML, JAXB-API, TOAD, Windows NT.    The purpose of this project is to develop a digitized interface to provide expert knowledge required for trip resolution. The Trip wizard application contains the following modules with major functionalities: Failure Mode Isolation: Trip detection, automated process for root cause analysis & Recommendations. This functionality also includes Trip History, Trip Event Reports (TER). Trip Reference: Reference Tool, which will show causes & related suggestions for the top 20 frequently occurring Trip Drop Names by frame size. Trip Notifier: This module interacts with MQ Series Server messages and sends notification to user who had subscribed for various Units (Turbines).    Developed Servlets using Java Servlet API for dynamic page generation. Use of JDBC API to extract data from Oracle 8i by using advanced JDBC techniques. Integration, deployment and (integration/load) testing of all the modules TER & Trip Coach. WSAD used as Web application development environment for the Java2 platform. Struts used as application MVC Framework. Programmer/Analyst/Consultant Verizon, TX March 2002 to February 2003 Duties and Responsibilities: Involved in designing and developing the XML based order services to front-office applications such as CSR portal, self-care portal and B2B partners and back-office components such as Work Flow Engine, Service Fulfillment, Billing applications etc.    Skills Utilized:  • Java, JSP, Servlets, JNDI, EJB, JMS, XML, XSLT, Web logic Web Services, Rational Rose, Ant, JBuilder, Web logic7.0 and Windows NT    TRS Nextgen is a state of the art project of Call Center Engineering & Implementation for state run call- centers across the United States. This platform replaces the existing old platform by meeting new Federal mandates example SS7 Signaling, Video Relay etc., J2EE technologies are widely used in developing the software components for the platform. Used XML/DOM/SAX and JAXB for data transfer and parsing. Used JDBC, SQL and PL/SQL for storing and accessing data from Oracle. Used Weblogic app server 7.0 to develop Session beans. Involved in the deployment, and configuration of Weblogic App server. Software Developer Armature Ltd January 2001 to February 2002 Duties and Responsibilities: Responsible for the maintenance and development of the Daily Movement DAO.    Skills Utilized:  • Windows 2000, Java, web logic Process Integrator, EJB1.1, xml, Oracle 8i, T.O.A.D, Win NT.    This application was developed to Communicate between the External Server Proxy and Message routing  System to all points Warehouse. This Project is having Data Access Object (DAO) layer, Data Control layer (DCO), Admin Layer and session beans. This project checks the Daily movement of stock in the Database and updates the stock in the warehouse. The interface between the Replenishment process and Eternal Server Proxy is the XML interface.  Used Java, WebLogic and EJB to developed Daily Movement DCO, Daily Movement Admin and Daily Movement Session Bean. Software Engineer ETDC - IN March 2000 to December 2000 Duties and Responsibilities: Responsible for the development of an electronic bills system.    Skills Utilized:  • EJB 1.1, Web Logic Server 5.1, JAVA 1.2.2, Servlets, JSP 1.1, JDBC, ORACLE 8i, WINNT, HTML.    ABS consolidates electronic bills from different (types of) biller's, So that the customer has a single site of access for viewing billing information and effecting bill payments electronically. The ABS service provider polls the biller's database and retrieves the billing information requested by the customer. The other role of service provider is to collect payment from the customer in a secure way.  In this project we used Https protocol to validate the credit card transactions with Cyber Source. We implemented the MVC (Model View Controller) architecture in our project. Used EJB's to gain the advantages: Transactions, Security, Concurrency, Naming, persistence and Load Balancing, Distributed Objects. We used the digital certificates of VeriSign.    Developed components using EJBs. Used Java Servlets and JSPs at server end to handle requests, responses from the web pages. OCI driver is used to access information from ORACLE databases. Software Engineer E.T.D.C - IN August 1999 to February 2000 Duties and Responsibilities: Maintained The Expert System. This application generates a Report suggesting the customer lab as to how to improve the performance of the system.    Skills Utilized:  • JAVA 1.2.2, Web Logic Server 4.5.1, Servlets 2.2, JSP 1.1, JDBC, ORACLE 8, WINNT, HTML.    Expert System is a group of components, which generates a Report suggesting the customer lab as to how to improve the performance of the system. Expert system mainly aims at the labs of the STQC directorate located nation-wide. This data replication tool is a supporting tool for the Expert System team. Expert system team works at different labs nation-wide.    Used Java Servlets and JSPs at the server end to handle requests and responses from the web pages. OCI driver is used to access information from ORACLE databases. Used the Database pooling. Developed the dynamic HTML pages for the client. Designed and developed the server side programs using Servlets. Did the server side validations using servlets and the client side validations. Testing the application and fixing the bugs. Software Engineer E.T.D.C - IN January 1999 to July 1999 Duties and Responsibilities: Analysis, Development of Calibration Aided Lab Management System.  Participated in all phases of project life cycle.    Skills Utilized:  • WinNT, JAVA 1.1.1, Servlets, JDBC, Oracle 7.3, HTML.    This project deals with the information about the different facilities offered at ETDC-Goa. Maintaining the details of different customers who are coming to ETDC-Goa for calibration, Testing. Maintaining the personal details of all the employees of ETDC-Goa. Storing the information about the instruments submitted by different customers, generating the different queries for users depending upon the type of group that they belong to. Education Master's in Engineering in Engineering Osmania University - Hyderabad, Telangana Bachelor's in Engineering in Engineering Jawaharlal Nehru Technical University - Hyderabad, Telangana