Software Developer and Consultant <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> and Consultant Tacoma, WA Programing and building user-friendly software that solves everyday business problems. Successfully made many custom software solutions for unique business problems. Proficient in creating web, desktop, and mobile applications full stack. Extensive knowledge of techniques and practices. Ability to successfully share skills with others. Primarily working in Microsoft .Net stack. Exposure to many other platforms such as Python, Node and Hadoop.  • 10 years software development experience.  • 20 years business experience.  • Hundreds of hours of technical and business training.  My two greatest skills continue to be the ability to:  • Understand the problem and come up with creative solutions.  • Transfer technical knowledge to others. Work Experience Software Developer and Consultant July 2008 to Present Independently developed a study bible web application which allows users to examine original Greek and Hebrew definitions of English bible text along with contextual highlighting and related word search. Added features to Xamarine.Forms mobile app accessing external 3rd party APIs such as Mobile RQ and MailChimp. Rewrote WCF service that loaded data from an external service to use Azure Storage and maintain state with Queues, Tables and Blobs. Architected an extendable testing harness by leveraging Selenium framework. Added features to an ASP.net app such as a EULA system for ensuring users were directed and in agreement with the company's terms of service. Greenfielded a web tool for loading and correcting errors on text records based on an extendable rule service. Created an editable tax rule system based on the Windows Workflow rule engine, with a UI that reported live file progress via SignalR. Created a prototype Excel workbook that could load Active Directory records from functions in the spreadsheet using VSTO. Created custom ETLs in C#. Designed a vendor file transfer workflow with clear distinct specifications to ensure continuous data transfer success. Oversaw and completed a team code migration project from TFS to GIT. Authored PowerShell scripts for Continuous Delivery on Azure. Coached team members on using various technologies to include writing PowerShell, implementing OAuth2 with AAD, ASP.net and web basics, and using Azure Cloud with .Net to name a few.  Microsoft Teams and Agencies worked with over the last 10 years: Bing Cortana September 2018 to June 2019 Oslo Solutions February 2018 to March 2018 Microsoft Universal Store, Security Team April 2016 to February 2017 Software Development Engineer Realty In Motion - Bellevue, WA October 2014 to October 2015 Refactored and enhanced client's primary Windows Form application for managing legal documents. Added features to a high-volume document storage file system and database. Created microservices for managing and archiving older files. Maintained and added features to client's ASP.Net Webforms web site for gathering legal information and pictures. Migrated 2005 ASP.net project to 2012. Created windows form application for wiring company invoice data to external vendor website. Implemented service bus messaging (on prem). Authored and maintained WCF endpoint services Microsoft Universal Store, Finance Team June 2013 to August 2014 Modis March 2012 to December 2012 Microsoft Office 365 Team Microsoft Web Advertising Team August 2011 to December 2011 Developer Vivaki - Seattle, WA January 2011 to August 2011 Identified and created tools for production operations enhancements. Built Nagios AWS Monitors with Python scripts for monitoring AWS offerings. Examples include checking bucket read/write, checking for files matching regex, and checking SimpleDb domain read/write. Created SimpleDb Backup tool for creating text backups of SimpleDb domains in Python. Created SimpleDb record writer in ASP.net for writing records to SimpleDb. Retrieving common attribute lists. Tagging functionality. Lots of AJAX, jQuery and AWS functionality. Wrote Windows Server Configuration Scripts in PowerShell for adding server permissions, setting SQL Server login, and configuring databases leveraging SMO and server administration. Created IIS Automation Scripts in PowerShell scripts for creating and configuring templated ASP.net applications and SSAS cube access on IIS server. Ombrella USA & Siemens July 2008 to June 2010 Microsoft Customer Satisfaction Team Infantry Team Leader US Army September 1994 to September 1996 Fire team leaders report to the squad leader. Directed a small group of men in basic fire and maneuver techniques. Disseminated enhanced strategies to team members prior to an assault. Ensured that soldiers are properly equipped and have the right amount of ammunition. Wrote soldier performance evaluations. Managed company training records. Graduated 60-day leadership course. Awarded numerous decorations. Infantryman US Army August 1989 to September 1994 Performed as a member of a fire team during drills and combat. Aided in the mobilization of vehicles, troops and weaponry. Assisted in reconnaissance missions. Processed prisoners of war and captured documents. Used, maintained and stored combat weapons (e.g., rifles, machine guns, antitank mines, etc.) Awarded two skill badges, one for completing a demanding helicopter knowledge course and the other for completing an intense skill assessment course. Graduated 2nd place in a grueling three-week leadership course aimed at preparing soldiers for Ranger school. Participated in two counter drug operations. Served in as a guard to a highly secure weapons facility requiring Secret Clearance. Graduated numerous job-related courses. Awarded numerous decorations. Links http://stackoverflow.com/users/103897/chris-hayes http://app.pluralsight.com/profile/chrisseanhayes http://bit.ly/chrisseanhayes_on_bitbucket http://www.linkedin.com/in/hayescs http://github.com/chrisseanhayes http://simplebibleapp.com