Principal Software Engineer (Platform Channels Team) Principal <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer (Platform Channels Team) Principal Software Engineer (Platform Channels Team) - Nice InContact Columbus, OH Principal Software Engineer and AWS Certified Solutions Architect Associate with more than 19 years of experience in development, maintenance, implementation and support / troubleshooting of enterprise applications. Very enthusiastic about learning/knowing new technologies, architectural and design concepts, programming languages and cloud computing.  Excellent understanding of SDLC, Secure SDLC, IT Risk, OWSAP and sensitivity of customer data and protecting company assets.  Strong at hands on design and development, developing POC, Prototyping and presenting solutions to business using Microsoft technologies and AWS cloud.  Strong inclination towards agile practices (associated with COHAA).  Good at building strong partnership with business, QA, UAT and Infrastructure teams. Excellent Oral and Written communications skills.  Experience in working with multiple project teams (on-shore and offshore), infrastructure teams, submitting paper works to get the task initiated and onboarding.  Have been a go to person on the team / projects at most places where I have worked. Work Experience Principal Software Engineer (Platform Channels Team) Nice InContact - Columbus, OH May 2016 to Present Technologies: Asp.net Web Forms / MVC 3.0, C#, WCF, Javascript/JQuery, SQL Server 2012, Windows Service, Java, Asp.net Core, AWS (Lambda, Nodejs, SQS, SNS, Api Gateway, KMS, ECS, Parameter store, Dynamodb, Kinesis, Route 53, Cloudwatch ).  Working on Brand Embassy Digital Engagement integration using Lambda and Kinesis Stream.  Designed and Developed SMS chat solution allowing customer to chat with Agents over SMS, using the existing Agent Platform. Solution was developed using Micro services deployed in AWS environment. Major components of the solutions are Ingest Api, Chat Room, set of dotnet core Apis to interact with Agent residing on inContact Platform.  Converted 30K of C++ / C to Java, one of the module is in production system. Fixed several bugs and improved code quality for the WFM that is under maintenance mode. Also learned Cplex and LpSolve for Java in order to convert industry standard Scheduler from C++ to Java.  Support migration for 180 clients from Verint to Incontact WFM.  Developed Synch Module using Windows Service (.Net Framework 4.6.1), Entity Framework 6.1, SQL Server 2012, and Structure Maps for dependency injection. Windows service runs every 5 minutes to call agents and permissions web API to synchronize the agent profile and permissions from Central authentication system to WFM database in order to move the authorization from WFM to Central. Actively participated with product to remediate Gaps in user story.  Developed Authentication shim / module using C# for single sign on as a part of unification project, and participated in uplifting UI for the same project using ASP.NET and C# and Nuget packages for Navigation bars.  Continuing to fix bugs and improve code quality for WFM V2 that is under maintenance mode to improve customer experience by delivering bi-weekly patches, help junior developers with their technical queries. WFMv2 uses Asp.Net Webforms, MVC 3.0, Jquery, SQL Server, ORM, Stored procedures and Scheduler, forecaster, and Simulator developed using C++. Senior Application Developer JPMorgan Chase and Companies - Columbus, OH 2010 to May 2016 Technologies: Asp.net / MVC 3/4, C#, Web Api, WCF, Javascript/JQuery/KendoUI, Angular JS, CSS/BootStrap 3, SQL Server 2005-2012.  Lead and developed several projects in Operations IT space from concept to delivery, working directly with business partners, QA partners, and offshore team. Following secure software development process mandated via tollgate process.  Developed a SPA application "Bankers Request Return" using Angular JS, Web API, and Entity Framework based on Onion Architecture, to replace legacy application as part of kill the tail program.  Designed and developed a solution by integrating into Digital's services to fetch and filter data useful for Fraud Operations to speed up their review of online payment and wire transfers that resulted in savings of 500k per annum.  Key member of Wires platform re-engineering team, which included fraud review system, using Asp.net MVC and Kendo UI and leading a team of four offshore members. This resulted in huge reduction of P1 tickets and a system that was very stable and minimized fraud loses.  Helped troubleshooting several critical issues in production and provided solution, that prevented deposit related loses and avoided customer complains. Technical Consultant Hi-tech Consulting - Kokomo, IN November 2005 to January 2010 Technologies: Asp.net 2.0, 3.5, C#, Web Services, Javascript/JQuery, CSS, SQL Server 2005-2008, K2.net, Sharepoint, Lotus notes.  Lead and developed several projects at Delphi Automotive and Chase working directly with business partner and client Project manager.  Successfully lead effort to migrate lotus notes based matter management system for legal and compliance department to asp.net web platform. More than 1500 users along with their sourcing department used this system. Managed to deliver the project when key stakeholders were leaving the project and there was constant churn of contractors due to performance issues.  Migrated several lotus notes workflows to asp.net web platform using K2.net workflow tool, and its SharePoint service to develop plugin for SharePoint for sharing reports.  Designed and developed a configurable dynamic parser that would enable the engineers to catch the faulty seat parts earlier in the lifecycle for different car models.  Joined a project in the middle as an onsite coordinator, the technology used in the project was very new to me which I quickly learned and helped offshore team in their effort to successfully complete the project. Sr. Developer Syntel Inc - Louisville, KY June 2005 to November 2005 I successfully implemented the solution for Humana that would enable doctor's office to update the records digitally and clients to generate reports using the updates.  Quickly learned the Humana's framework for dot net application without any training or assistance and developed the project using the strict norms. Helped other developers to learn the framework. Software engineer Patni Inc - Bloomington, IN February 2000 to June 2005 I worked on various projects for Hitachi engineering and State farm insurance.  Quickly learned Accenture's framework and became a group lead on a production support team to support, maintain and enhance the enterprise claims system that was developed in ASP / VB / COM. Worked in a very stressful environment to keep the system running 24/7.  Became a key resource and a subject matter expert for Auto Forms, Tasks management, Print processor.  While working on Hitachi projects, I learned different technologies like UNIX, C++, VC++, Java, Pocket PC etc. quickly and became productive on the projects within few days of joining the project. Education Diploma in Advanced Computing in (DAC) Center for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC) - Pune, Maharashtra 2000 Bachelor's in Electronics Engineering India July 1993 to July 1997 Skills Ajax, Asp, Css, Iis, Iis 5, Asp.net, Security, Sharepoint, Web services, Visual studio, Api, C#, C++, Vc++, Commerce server, Cucumber, Docker, Git, Javascript, Node.js, AWS (2 years) Certifications/Licenses AWS Certified Cloud Practitioner March 2018 to July 2022 AWS Certified Solution Architect Associate July 2019 to July 2022 Additional Information Technical Skills  Programming C# 2.0 - 5.0, C, C++, VC++, Visual Basic 6.0, ABAP, Ruby, Java  Database Technologies MS SQL 2000 - 2008, IBM DB2, Oracle. SSIS, SSRS Local Reporting, Store Procedures, Entity Framework 4 /6, NHibernate.  Web Technologies:  ASP.Net, HMTL, Web-Forms, MVC 3/4/5, Web Api, JQuery, Kendo UI, Node.js, IIS 5.1 - 7.5 JavaScript, AJAX, XML, XSL, Web Services, Boot Strap / CSS, SPA using AngularJs (Learning 2.0 & Typescript).    Source Control / CI  Subversion/Tortoise SVN, Git/Source Tree, VSS, TFS, Jenkins (Blue Ocean), Cruise Control, NANT, Fisheye Crucible for Code Review, Octopus.    Platforms MS Windows 2005/2008, Linux.  Tools & Technologies:  Visual Studio 2003-2013, Re-sharper, NUnit, Moq, AutoFac, Structure map, Selenium, WATIN, Spec Flow / Cucumber, SONAR, HP Fortify, Black Duck, Cigital Secure Assist, iRise studio, JIRA, Confluence, SharePoint, K2.net 2003, Hitachi workflow technology. MTS/COM+/DTS, JNI, Notrix, Lotus Notes, Commerce Server, TFS, Gatling for load test.    Cloud  AWS DynamoDb, Api Gateway, Lambda, Step Functions, SNS, SQS, KMS, EC2, ECS, Fargate, Docker, Elastic Cache, Security Group, Xray, Cloud Watch, Cloud formation, SAM, S3.