DBA DBA DBA - OWASSO WEBS, LLC Owasso, OK • Software developer with over 10 years of experience in software design and application development within the entire software development lifecycle.  • SQL Server and Oracle backend databases, as well as Active Directory Services.  • SQL Server design and basic administration.  • Consulting with process mapping for identification and improvement for cost savings and profit maximization.  • Over 15 years of business analysis for requirements gathering and design specifications for applications and websites.  • Syteline ERP and custom ERP systems.  • Report writing expertise using Crystal Reports and Microsoft SSRS.  • Widely experienced website and desktop design and development in a variety of industries including Oil and Gas, Government, Manufacturing and Finance.  • Technical background includes strong .Net experience (C#, VB.Net) and T-SQL skills. Frameworks include 2.0, 3.5, 4.0 and 4.5  • Web experience includes CSS, HTML 5, JavaScript and Bootstrap. Work Experience DBA OWASSO WEBS, LLC November 2015 to Present November 2015 to Present  • Independent web consulting, web hosting, website design, web content writing, social media marketing and SEO optimization.  • Project management and web development towards a private web consulting business startup using Visual Studio 2015 ASP.Net, C# and HTML5, JavaScript, MVC and Bootstrap.  • Needs analysis, project cost estimates, project tracking for timeline, budget and resources.  • Developed sales and contact databases using SQL Server 2012 and 2015. These are used for collecting information and for website reporting. Reporting is based on SQL Server stored procedures and TSQL.  • Social media marketing and analytics.  • Integration, maintenance and upgrades for multi-tier complex systems and applications.  • Technology research and architecture upgrade proposals and implementation.  • Data management, reporting and design of Oracle PL/SQL stored procedures and on demand reports for an oil exploration company gathering well site information and perform DBA duties.  • Consult and gather user requirements and translate into project designs, estimates and timelines. Developer PHILLIPS 66 August 2013 to December 2015 • Developed and/or maintained 150+ corporate websites/applications using Visual Studio .Net versions 2010, 2012 and 2013 with .Net Framework versions ranging from 2.0 to 4.5.  • Over 90% of the websites and applications were ASP.Net design with C# going to SQL Server, Oracle or Active Directory Services back ends.  • Applications frequently utilized custom user controls and Ajax controls.  • Software developed frequently included JavaScript, MVC and/or AngularJS.  • Particular area was Corporate Apps, working with applications that supported management reporting, tracking and administrative tasks.  • Worked on a project called SITAS - State Income Tax Allocation System modifying an Oracle database.  • Overhauled the SITAS Oracle reporting system back end PL/SQL stored procedures.  • Worked on Cap 50 projects application and tracking system which streamlined the management of projects with budgets totaling $50,000 or less.  • Worked the entire software development cycle.  • The work involved heavy use of Team Foundation Server creating builds and managing branches, as well as migrating versions to testing and production. Owner/Consultant CAMTECH February 2013 to August 2013 • Worked as an independent contractor working with HTML, ASP using C# and Web Services with backend SQL Server and Oracle databases.  • Performed conversion and reverse engineering project for clients where older versions were not upgradeable or source code was unavailable.  • Managed multiple projects across B2B accounts from proposal to implementation. Programmer/Business Analyst II HARSCO INDUSTRIAL AIR-X-CHANGERS December 2011 to February 2013 • Work closely with end users and management to gather and define technical specifications and project requirements.  • Managed projects through design to implementation throughout software lifecycle.  • Projects included development using Microsoft tools, VB.Net, C#, Oracle and SQL Server to create and maintain reports and applications.  • Support and development in Syteline ERP System, Visual Studio 2010.  • SQL Server stored procedures and Oracle PL/SQL stored procedures.  • Created ad hoc reports using Crystal Reports.  • Administered user set up and privileges within the ERP system. Software Developer TIGER FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT January 2008 to August 2011 • Work with end users and management to develop analysis, project plan, software requirements and scope and timelines.  • Software development was using Visual Studio for a large financial and POS accounting system, which included approximately 60 brick and mortar stores and 50 internet stores selling sub-prime market financial services.  • The development platform was mainly in VS 2010. Made a significant contribution in a large conversion effort which involved bringing the UI from VB6 into the VS 2010 C# Win Forms environment.  • The business layer was converted from VS 2008 to VS 2010. The primary languages used were C# and VB.Net.  • New applications were developed in VB.Net, C# Win Forms, ASP.Net.  • The databases were SQL Server and Oracle with SQL queries, PL/SQL and SQL Stored Procedures.  • Development models included SCRUM and Waterfall.  • Wrote and carried out test plans. Software Developer/Consultant CAMTECH July 1997 to January 2008 • Contract and sub-contract programmer/ developer, mainly serving clients in Wichita, KS and the surrounding area.  • Created several Visual Basic and Microsoft Access applications for manufacturing, real estate and other businesses.  • Experience included writing stored procedures and complex SQL queries.  • Active Server Pages to render documents from database records with text and stored graphics.  • Upsized Access to SQL Server/VB and converted mainframe tables to Oracle and SQL Server with Access or VB user interfaces  • The work required a high level of customer service, overseeing installation of equipment and networks, and ensuring that proper software licensing was in place.  • Companies worked for included Rubbermaid Home Products, Coleman Manufacturing and General Electric Aviation. Information Resource Specialist II KANSAS CORPORATION COMMISSION June 1995 to July 1997 • Senior developer and network administrator for a federally funded program from the Department of Energy budgeted at $250,000 annually. The scope of the project was to design, develop and implement a client/server enterprise that used a combination of VB and Office 97 interfaces to an Oracle 7 Server via an Intranet spanning multiple locations within Kansas.  • Network operating systems deployed included Novell 3.X, Novell 4.X, Dec OSF1 on an Alpha 2000, NT 3.5 and NT 4.X. The system was for use by technical and geology staff in five cities to track and ensure compliance to EPA regulated standards, and to produce required reports to submit to the EPA.  • Department was responsible for other key system modernization efforts, which included the retirement and conversion of mainframe systems to Microsoft/Oracle client/server technology. I was the department manager and project leader supervising programming and technical support staff. I also hired and interfaced with outside software consulting firms on behalf of the agency.