Software Developer Consultant <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Consultant Dallas, TX • 13+ years of experience in requirement, analysis, design, development and working within agile scrum team, contributing to an atmosphere of continuous improvement.  • Experience in .Net, C#, .Net Core, WEB API, Angular, ASP. Net, , MS-SQL server.  • Experience in creating REST services, WCF services and integrating the same with portal that is used by the Agents to process the customer requests.  • Experience with Angular JS directives ng-app, ng-init, ng-model, ng-controller for initialization of Angular JS application data.  • Experience in writing SQL queries, Stored Procedure using SQL server management studio.  • Experience in VC++, C, Delphi, MySQL, Interbase  • Experience in client-side technologies, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, Json.  • Work with architects, designers, business analysts and others to design and implement high quality software solutions.  • Managed complete life cycle of multiple projects including project plan / timeline setup, maintaining project deliverables, creating status reports, managing development teams.  • Good exposure to the onsite and offshore model in coordinating, working with team members and client based on requirements.  • Assist product owners in backlog grooming, story breakdown and story estimation, collaborate and communicate effectively with team members and other stakeholders.  • Participating in the Agile ceremonies such as Sprint planning, stories grooming and daily standup meetings.  • GIT, Team Foundation Server (TFS) etc. used for version control, project management and team collaboration.  • Experience in Health care, Banking/Finance Loan management domain.  • Self-directed and self-motivated individual who takes complete ownership of the product and its outcome.  • Strong working experience in Object- Oriented Programming (OOP).  • Proficiency in analyzing results and issues, defect reporting and tracking, test management and coverage assessment, and status reporting for stakeholders.  • Creation and reviewing documents of FSD, LLD, Unit test cases and POC for client's initial review per requirements.  • Involved in delivering design document using UML (Use cases, Class diagrams, Activity diagrams).  • Worked with Selenium in C#, .Net/NUnit along with Visual Studio IDE.  • Developed automation in Fitnesse using C# with Selenium web driver  • Experience with unit testing, Black-box and White-box testing.  • Worked for 6 months in ISRAEL with Client team and have helped in giving technical inputs and assisted in system development and testing. Work Experience Software Developer Consultant Elevate Credit service, LLC - Dallas, TX December 2016 to Present Description of Project:  Product has a great emergency cost option to avail loans for the customers who do not have good credit history, with features like fast approval, rates that can drop over time on future loans, free credit score monitoring, and flexible loan terms. These tasks have been accomplish using many services and jobs.    Responsibilities:  • Implemented REST service to get called within NLS for customer's loan management.  • Developed logging functionality within Audit API WCF service to log the details on job failure  • Worked on Angular directives, Controllers, Services, Templets and Injectors.  • Used AngularJS multiple in-built directives such as filters, root scope, scope, modal, template, state etc.  • Implemented and enhanced the Notification WCF service to get the detail customer statements.  • Developed microservices LoanCommand and LoanQry in .Net Core for loan rules to specific functionality within loan management.  • Enhancement for new feature development like Cancel Cash Advance, CFPB etc.  • Branching and Merging in GIT/Team Foundation source control for release activities.  • Build and decoupled the quartz interface to JAMS interface and added code to Batch Nucleus jobs to execute with JAMS client  • JAMS automation Jobs scripts developed in C#/ Code, Power shell along with Visual Studio IDE  • Design approach document for implementation of new requirements to convert T-SQL & Nucleus batch jobs to JAMS scheduler.  • Production support, defect fixing and involved in Elastic product releases  • Configure and Manage test environments Software Developer Consultant Think Finance - Dallas, TX August 2015 to November 2016 Description of Project:  Loan products - Great Plains Lending, GPL is a great emergency cost option to avail loans for the customers who do not have great credit history. It provides the loans as soon as next banking day to the approved customer and notify the customers with the status of conditionally approved, conditionally declined and directly declined. Conditionally declined customers will be moved to conditionally approved with the support of required documents application make sure the APR percentage with in the defined regulations and customer payment amount depends on the loan amount, interest rate and charges associated with loan are determined by credit, factors from application and payment history.    Responsibilities:  • Team management and task allocation  • Communicating with offshore team and other team member for integrated module development and integration  • Provide estimation, story points in sprint planning.  • Design approach document for Implementation of new requirements  • Created stored proc consumed within service and other web services  • Branching and Merging in Team Foundation source control.  • Created WCF service for Launcher tool  • Design and developed Launcher tool which will execute the automation test scripts  • Working closely with BAs and SMEs to identify the business needs  • Automation scripts developed in Selenium in C#/CodedUI/JavaScript/XML along with Visual Studio IDE.  • API testing using Soap UI. WCF testing in VS WCF client.  • Used TFS for defect tracking and source control. Project lead JPMorgan Chase December 2008 to July 2015 Description: HealthCare Link product is the process of submitting and following up on claims to insurance companies in order to receive payment for services rendered by a healthcare provider. It consists of many modules developed in C#, Delphi to process the EOB. All data and Images are stored in the database. Invoked processes will be passed control information to help it to retrieve the required image or data from the medical database. Upon completion of the task the process will write data back to the database for retrieval by the next called process. Provider services are promoted to beneficiaries of employer health benefit plans through the internet at the Link Healthcare website.  Responsibilities:  • Enhancement for functional feature in health care provider module  • Developed ASP.Net web based application using WCF services, Data Access Layer business service.  • Developed web forms for provider modules using ASP.Net server controls, validation controls, HTML, CSS.  • Involved in creating Master Pages and Theme.  • Validated web forms through JavaScript and JQuery.  • Developed business logic to handle transactions for database using ADO.NET objects such as Data Sets, Data Adapters, and Data Readers.  • Designed database in MS SQL Server by creating Tables, Stored Procedures, Views and Triggers and integrate them in the applications.  • New features enhancement in Order processing, Contract Management modules.  • New features enhancement in the BackOffice application  • Communicating with other team member for integrated module development and integration  • Provided estimation using function point and WBS.  • Design approach document, FSD creation and Implementation for new requirements  • Creation of LLD, test case, Proof of test case documents  • Development of POC for new requirements  • Enhancement and defect fixing  • Production support for released versions  • Team management and task allocation Project Lead, Team Lead and developer team member on dozens Persistent Systems, Ness Technologies, Annet Technologies, C2M August 2002 to December 2008 of application development projects. Delivered technology solutions that    • Continuous integration, continuous deployment and continuous delivery  • Implement complex, high-quality, scalable, and extendable end-to-end solutions, using either out-of-the-box or custom functionality  • Excellent organization and communication skills, ability to handle diverse situations, multiple projects and rapidly changing priorities  • Experienced in problem solving, and able to follow a methodical implementation process  • Architect, design, develop and deploy scalable applications for clients, from concept through deployment to production environments  • Transitioning solutions into support  • Worked in C#, .Net, SQL Server, C, VC++  • Developed FSD, LLD documents for the BackOffice application.  • New features enhancement  • Communicating with other team member for integrated module development and integration  • Production support, bug fixing and enhancement Education Bachelor in Engineering Mumbai University - Mumbai, Maharashtra Skills Javascript, Git, MYSQL, .Net, C#, WCF, REST/WEB API services, .Net Core, Angular 7, MSSQL Server, MVC, ASP.Net, ADO.Net, Micro-services, C, VB Script, VC++, Delphi, , Interbase, MySql (10+ years)