System Engineering Data Science R&D Intern, Summer System Engineering Data Science R&amp;D Intern, Summer System Engineering Data Science R&D Intern, Summer Tempe, AZ Currently pursuing Masters in Software Engineering. I am seeking full time software development roles for 2020.  I have 3 years of software development experience. Worked with companies like Accenture, Nokia and Publicis Sapient. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience System Engineering Data Science R&D Intern, Summer NOKIA June 2019 to August 2019 2019  • Developed, deployed and maintained a commercial machine learning and big data website,  • Hosting a suite of product requirement, defect query and requirements quality assessment using Gensim library for document  similarity algorithms and google cloud translation API.  • Led and mentored intern team with integration phase.  Technologies used - Python, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Flask, Jupyter Application Development Analyst - Software Developer ACCENTURE TECHNOLOGY August 2017 to July 2018 Green Field Implementation of client's Financial and Physical Gas Trading Business to Openlink Endur  • Migrated entire trade lifecycle of the client's current Financial and Physical Gas Trading business in Endur with Agile  Development and Test-driven approach for below scope items.  • Designed, developed, deployed solutions with regression testing & bug fixing for some complex deliverables.  • Front Office: Deal Capturing and Processing, Developing Pre/Post Process Operation Scripts & Definitions, Field & Event  Notification scripts in C# & Java (OC) for deals with varied instruments & portfolios.  • Developed & delivered complex work items involving extensive business logic for calculating fuel up volumes, transport and margin fees with extensive use of LINQ, an object-relational mapping framework for .NET classes.  • Middle Office: Creating custom and complex UDSR scripts (User Defined Simulation Results) in C# (OC) for generating  simulation results for PnL(Profit and Loss), MTM (Mark to Market) valuations along with custom scripted results.  • Working on APM (Active Position Manager) for creating custom filter, pivot and result columns, APM Page, Desktop & Service  configuration for client's real time viewing and reporting.  • Back Office: Creating and scheduling Nominations for commodity (Natural Gas) trades. Creating data load scripts and processing invoices in Settlement Desktop for the actualized volume of commodity delivered/received.  Technologies used - Java, C#, LINQ, Open Components(OC), SQL Associate Technology - Software Developer PUBLICIS SAPIENT October 2015 to August 2017 Migration of Operation Service's Scripts and various ad-hoc Reports from AVS to Java (Open Components- OC)  • Development and Unit Testing of Pre /Post Processing scripts and various kind of reports (Excel, Table view and Crystal output)  in Java.  ? APM Service's Performance Optimization  • The project required APM (Active Position Manager) Service's Performance to be optimized by reducing its run time.  • Configured services to optimize the data required for APM pages & successfully reduced service run time by more than 80 %.  ? RTP to APM Migration  • The project required client's real time position reports to migrate from RTP (Real Time Position Viewer) to APM (Active  Position Manager).Converted scripts from AVS to Java for getting business specific position reports. Created APM exposure  pages & services, simulation configuration for delta result types with modified targets settings.  Technologies used - Java, Open Components(OC), SQL Education Master of Science in Computer Software Engineering in Computer Software Engineering Arizona State University August 2018 to May 2020 Bachelor of Technology in Information Technology in Information Technology Jaypee Institute of Information Technology - Noida, Uttar Pradesh 2011 to 2015 Skills .net, Visual studio, Android studio, C#, C++, Html, Javascript, Oop, Python, Flask, Eclipse, Java, Database, Mysql, Oracle, Sql, Data structure, Machine learning, Sdlc, Css, Agile (3 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  ? Languages: Java, C++, C#, .NET with LINQ, C, SQL, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, Python  ? Concepts: Data Structure & Algorithms, OOP, SDLC, Agile Development, Fundamentals of Software Eng., Machine Learning  ? Database & Software: Oracle 11g, MySQL & Visual Studio, Eclipse, Jupyter, Flask framework, AWS (Sagemaker, S3), Toad for  Oracle, Android Studio  ? Openlink Endur: OpenComponents(Java, C#), JVS, AVS, APM, Service, Operations, Trading, Admin & Reference Manager