Remote Developer Remote <span class="hl">Developer</span> Richmond, RI ?????????????????????????????  • Fluent in Italian, English, and German.  • Working knowledge of Java Se, JSP, Java Script, JQuery,C# , Ajax, Xml,MySQL,MS-SQL Database , C++ , Qt5 ,Qml,Node-js,gCloud Programming Concepts , PhP Programming, HTML 5 / CSS3,  ????????????????????? COURSEWORK WITH DESCRIPTION ?????????????????????  • Java I-The fundamentals of programming and algorithm development are taught using an object-oriented language, such as Java. Topics include classes, control structures, arrays, and inheritance.  • Java II-Emphasis is on techniques needed to develop large object-oriented programs. Topics include graphical user interfaces, exception handling, strings, recursion, and files.  • Computer Architecture-Basic concepts of computer organization, architecture, and machine language programming are examined. Topics include data representation, binary and hexadecimal arithmetic, Boolean algebra, combinatorial and sequential circuits, and registers.  • Information Structures-Data structures are presented to represent and access information efficiently. Topics include time complexity, linked lists, stacks, queues, hashing, trees, heaps, searching, and sorting.  • Functional Programming-Functional programming focuses on the design process from problems to well-organized solutions, using a functional language. Topics include, design recipes, functions, lists, self-referential data structures, and abstract design.  • Algorithm Analysis-Techniques for designing algorithms and analyzing their efficiency are covered. Topics include "big-oh" analysis, divide-and-conquer, greedy method, efficient sorting and searching, graph algorithms, dynamic programming, and NP-completeness.  • Software Engineering-The software development process is examined from initial requirements analysis to operation and maintenance. Student teams develop a software system from requirements to delivery, using disciplined techniques.  • Program Languages-Programming language constructs are presented, with emphasis on the run-time behavior of programs. Topics include language definition, data types and structures, and run-time considerations.  • C# Level-I: Introduction to C# programming including general concepts, program design, development, data types, operators, expressions, flow control, functions, classes, input and output operations, debugging, structured programming, and object-oriented programming.  • My-SQL: A broad overview of the MySQL database. Includes Structured Query Language (SQL) instruction for data definition, data manipulation, and data retrieval. Develops knowledge and skills required to install MySQL, model and create new databases, manage users, authentication, and stored procedures, and develop backup/restore strategies.  • Web Development I: Overview of the Internet/WWW and its resources. Hands-on experience with various Internet/WWW communication, resource discovery, and information retrieval tools. Web page development also included.  • Html5:This course covers the use of the HTML language and its associated tools including the basic features of HTML scripting, approaches to writing successful Web pages and accessing resources. Topics include graphics, tables, forms and dynamic and interactive documents:  • C++:This is a comprehensive course in programming in C++. Topics include types, operators, expressions, control flow, functions, arrays and file handling.  • PHP: Students will learn to syntax and structure of PHP. Students will learn to collect data from a web-based form and use it to create dynamic web pages for their users. Students will need access to a web server that supports PHP.  • Software Testing- Software testing principles, concepts, and techniques are presented within the context of the software development life cycle. Topics include software test design, test process, test management, and software testing tools.  • Credit Internship Students work at a business or nonprofit organization integrating classroom study with work-based learning, supervised by a faculty member.  • Operating System Topics include instruction sets, I/O and interrupt structure, addressing schemes, memory management, process management, performance, and evaluation. Work Experience Remote Developer NewGLink COrp - New Jersey April 2019 to Present Create Developed 2/3d Educational games using unity and c# Software Engineer acelerex - Cambridge, MA October 2017 to November 2018 Lead programmer, tester, architect, and system engineer of Irena project.  The project uses qt, c++, node js, javascript, jquery, html, mysql, ubuntu 16.04, nginx, pm2, git and glpk using netbeans ide over gcloud vm to retrieve data from the web application from tables and perform calculations for utilities companies.The project has a back end and a Api listening in a mutli concurrent thread tcp/ip server to perform the opearation of storing, deleting , authenticating users, session creation and/with ip management, cors support, perform calculations and displaying results with relative graphs     Designer, Architect , System Engineer for southern research project    The project involved collection of data sent from energy storage systems via Modbus protocol using tcp/Ip servers and hand shacking servers in order to populate warehouse for creation of data marts and datamining , plus real time monitoring, emulation , software monitoring tool's using qt, c++, node js, javascript,mysql over a ubuntu 16.04 operating system in a vm gcloud environment. Jr Software engineer custom systems and controls - Ashland, MA October 2016 to August 2017 Developed ,designed, test, and implemented, Gui with relative supporting applications that handled: hardware, http,Udp, radio communication , for administration , maintenance and monitoring , of tags used by football players to record their values using qt5 , C++ , mysql, visual studio. Remote Developer D'production May 2015 to July 2016 Developed custom business card web application using php  Html5 css3 javascript jquery ajax Jr Software engineer Axon Communication Braintree - Boston, MA December 2015 to February 2016 Create Web applications in php html5 Mysql javascript and jquery  Developed ems (content management system developed in php)  Developed input feedback application (php html css).    https://github.com/insonia78/project/tree/master/ems_copy(php)  https://github.com/insonia78/project/tree/master/input_feedback_1(php) Technology Intern IGT - West Greenwich, RI May 2015 to November 2015 Testing - static test and provided solution to the file attachment issue between client and production Jira server.  User management - process activation and termination requests, validate Jira training , in iGTs Software Development Lifecycle.  Upgrades - Assist with testing and investigation for upgrades associated with Jira and our Wiki.  Development (Credit project) - created (MVC model ) a workbench/dashboard in html/css javascript/jquery indexedDb that runs on share point (file storage , link storage, quick button , preview screen , multi pop-up screen, around 10000 lines of code).  https://github.com/insonia78/bussiness-card-repositiory/tree/master/workbench_with_db/workbench_with_db2  too support day to day activity of the Jira team and to enable a consistent transfer knowledge.  Developed a Market - Micro- economic - marketing analysis to better support the use of the project for a strategic problem regarding the browser market and bring a possible solution to the jira platform.    Software Engineering project ( CSCI 401 ) https://github.com/insonia78/csci-401-project/tree/master/New%20Conquer%20RIC    • Developed 2D tactics game using c# and Xaml platform  Responsibilities:  • explored and collaborated with creation of board  • Explored, found solutions , sole developer with Game Theory concept and discrete math for Ai Remote Developer Shield Tek. Inc September 2014 to December 2014 • Utilized PhP, JSON and MySQL queries for assigned intern project with a company dedicated to providing safety and security to college students with new technology and innovation.  • Created alert class, database proxy class, a logIn, profile, signup, upLoad, and upload Image in PhP with JSON to ensure stateful, real-time server-to-browser communication without using browser plugins.Colaborate with the front end.  • Technology developed is intended to be used in a wireless panic device (SHIELDkey), smartphone application (SHIELDApp), and the police dispatcher dashboard (SHIELDdash).  • Created password reset with creation of tokens for an all-in-one product and service product currently being developed. Bar Manager Hospitality and Tourism 1997 to 2011 head Bartender/man, Bartender/man, Waiter, Chef de Rang  • Held high level positions within the Hospitality and Tourism industry in Italy, The United States and Germany.  • Became bar manager of a five star luxury hotel.  • Ensured that all standards of quality met or exceeded industry standards to retain industry rating and to ensure exceptional customer service  • Manage and supervise: bar staff, bar service staff, inventory, menu , bar suppliers.  • Communication and customer service skills well developed and necessary for diverse needs of international and multicultural hospitality industry.  • Extensive knowledge of liqueur, wines and pairing with fine dining culinary creations.  • Responsible for hitting revenue goals, completing cost analysis for very busy seasonal(summer/winter) hotel bar, understand and satisfy trends of international clientele ( it has a one Michelin star). Education Udemy in computer science Udemy - Remote April 2019 to Present Online Coursework in Computer Programming Maricopa Community Colleges May 2014 to Present B.A. in Computer Science in Computer Science Rhode Island College - Providence, RI January 2016 General Studies Community College of Rhode Island - Warwick, RI June 2014 Skills C#, Java, Linux, C, c++ (3 years), qt5, javascript, node js, my sql, sql server, jquery, HTML 5, CSS3, Angular (Less than 1 year), PHP, Git, MySQL, CSS, ASP Links https://github.com/insonia78/project http://www.linkedin.com/in/thomas-zangari-42b341135 Certifications/Licenses Driver's License