Enterprise Integration Software Developer Enterprise Integration <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Enterprise Integration Software Developer - Podiatry Insurance Company Of America (PICA), Franklin US Software developer with over 14 years of professional experience in a variety of industries, able to quickly adapt to new  situations and motivated to provide creative solutions to problems.    Diversified education having studied in number of areas of computer science including areas such as database design,  gui programming, high performance computing, computer graphics, and network programming. Experienced with  several programming languages. Worked in multiple different industries (insurance, medical back office, financial  collections, and jewelry retail). Excels at analyzing, deconstructing, and providing multiple solutions to problems. Work Experience Enterprise Integration Software Developer Podiatry Insurance Company Of America (PICA), Franklin October 2015 to Present United States  Key implementer of internal web based BPM solution (K2 Blackpearl)  Worked with business to design user interfaces and workflows for bpm solution, building custom components when necessary  Integrated third party events from policy management system (eOasis) and document management system ( Onbase) for BPM automation  Research forums and worked with third party vendors to expand capabilities, not  possible with built in K2 Blackpearl solution and improve data loading performance  Provided training to the reporting team on the K2 Blackpearl database structure to enable non standard reporting  Developed unit and integration tests, including Selenium integration testing Enterprise Software Engineer Jewelry TV, Knoxville May 2010 to October 2015 United States  Enterprise Java engineer involved with internal software design, coding, testing, and support. Major projects at the company were the creation of a sales agent performance  indicator, a conversion of legacy vb.net and java applications into current framework, rebuild of JTV's Ivr system use to allow customers place and track their orders via  phone and 3rd party integrations with Channel Advisor to allow Jewelry Television sell  their products in online marketplaces and USPS to provide customers up to date  tracking of packages.    Worked in an N-tier architecture using agile environment, using frameworks like spring, and Ibatis using maven as the build management tool, svn code repository,  and Jenkins for continuous integration. ( Oracle - back-end, Java - integration, business, and presentation, Firefox-client)  Often engaged in writing and optimizing complex oracle queries on data sets of rows in the millions, modifying triggers, creating and modifying tables, adding  indexes, .  Practiced test-driven development using j-unit and cucumber and mock frameworks such as mockito and easy mock, as well as light selenium testing.  Optimized executions by using thread pools.  Designed, and coded custom html / ajax gui components to provide custom  functionally.  Wrote code generation tools to aid in testing. Software Developer T&M Investments, Knoxville May 2010 to May 2010 United States  Brought on board to perform a data source conversion for a vb.net application  responsible for collections tracking. Software was responsible tracking for hundreds of financed accounts. Responsible for re-coding and importing data from access to sql  server. Responsible for fixing bugs and optimizing the software, providing technical  support, upgraded and installed new parts, serving a systems administrator and database administrator for the office, as well interact with the business to discover,  • Work experience  design, and implement new features in the PCT software.    Performed conversion and migration of payment tracking software from MS Access to SQL server 2005.  Performed Database  Administrative functions using SQL Server 2005 with SQL Management Studio.  Stored procedures, Triggers, Views & Queries.  Created and modified customer payment forms  Created financial and customer status reports  Application development in VB.NET 2.0 (2005)  User control design and implementation Design, creation & installation of Windows Services  Debugged software issues.  WAN/Network Administration Mechanic US Navy October 2000 to October 2004 United States Education Master of Science in Visualization University of Tennessee - Knoxville, TN January 2010 to December 2012 Bachelor of Science in Computer Science University of Tennessee - Knoxville, TN January 2005 to December 2009 Skills C#, C++, Groovy, Html, Javascript, Sql server, Mysql, Oracle, Sql, Java, jquery, Backbone, Css, Dojo Additional Information • Skills  Languages Databases  Java ••••• Oracle •••••  Groovy ••••• Sql Server •••••  C# ••••• Mongo Db •••••  C++ ••••• MySQL •••••  Web  HTML •••••  Javascript •••••  CSS •••••  Jquery •••••  BackBone •••••  Dojo •••••