Senior Developer Senior <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Developer - Beal bank Plano, TX • More than 10 years industrial experience in software and database development  • Strong programming skills and good knowledge in.NET Framework and ASP.NET development.  Multi-tier system experience  • Solid relational database knowledge. Extensive database design and development experience Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Developer Beal bank February 2014 to Present • Design, develop and implement ASP.NET applications using C#, LINQ, CSS, Entity Framework, and JavaScript framework such as jQuery and AngularJs. Create Web applications for uploading data with various formats to databases. Develop and maintain Property Management application for user interactions with data sources.  • Design, develop and implement databases on the SQL server and ORACLE systems. Create tables,  views, stored procedures, functions, constraints and other database objects based on business  requirements. Implement, update and test database objects in the desired environments. Work  on performance tuning and optimization  • Design, build, deploy and manage SSRS reports. Create data sources and report objects  • Provide support and solutions to various system and data problems Senior Software Developer Locke Lord LLP April 2013 to February 2014 • Design and develop company's recruiting and accounting applications on the Microsoft .NET  technologies. Apply ASP.NET in designing. Use ASP.NET, C#, LINQ, JavaScript library, and JQuery, HTML, CSS, and ORM tool (Entity framework) in development. Design and Develop Services (Web  services, WCF), business and database objects.  • Design and build database, stored procedures and other database objects on SQL server. Develop  reporting applications (RDLC) and other tools for various business needs in the organization. Senior Software Engineer (lead) DFW Hospital Council January 2012 to April 2013 • Design, develop and maintain Background Check system and License Management systems for the health care industry on Microsoft .NET platform. Use ASP.NET, C#, LINQ, JavaScript, JQuery, HTML,  CSS, XML and Entity Framework in development. Develop WCF Services, business and database  objects.  • Design and build database, stored procedures and other database objects on SQL server.  • Provide lead role in development process. Organize projects, collect and document requirements.  • Design, develop and deploy Project Tickets system and other tools for the team and the organization. Senior Software Developer Fiserv November 2010 to December 2011 • Design, develop and implement electronic payment solution software in .Net platform using  ASP.NET, WCF, Web Services, C #, LINQ, AJAX, JavaScript and JQuery. Responsible for the full cycle  development including UI, business services and data access libraries.  • Design and develop database, create stored procedures on SQL server environment  • Organize and coordinate with off-shore team members. Deploy and maintain system in production  environment Senior Software Engineer Capital Institutional Services January 2008 to October 2010 Design trading and account maintenance systems with ASP.NET (2.0-3.5). Applying C#, HTML, ADO.NET Ajax in development. Create and use web services. Design, create and deploy SQL  database and stored procedures.  • Design, develop and implement financial trading system and client services system using Silverlight  technology. Program applications; Create Web services, WCF services and manage configurations  for multi-tiered systems applying WPF (XAML) and C# on MS framework. Create database, stored procedures and other functions on SQL servers. Senior Software Engineer Mega Health & Life Insurance April 2002 to December 2007 • Analyze, design, develop and implement ASP.NET applications on MS.NET framework. Develop  company's eCom and Advertising Manager System using .NET framework, C#, ADO.NET, XML, HTML/DHTML, JavaScript, Web Services and various user controls. Create tables and write SQL  stored procedures.  • Develop Database Access component, Security component, error handling component and other  assemblies for the use of all the .NET applications in the company Education MS in Information Management System Texas A&M University - College Station, TX Skills Ado, Database, Database design, Ado.net, Sql server, Sql, Ajax, Css, Asp.net, Web services, .net, C#, Html, Javascript, Bootstrap, Silverlight, Wcf, Orm, Software development, jQuery, HTML 5 Links http://in.NET Additional Information SKILLS  • Full cycle software development, logical model, physical design and development  • SQL database design and development. Objects creation and maintenance  • Languages/Technologies: ASP.NET Web Form, MVC, AJAX, C#, LINQ, JQuery, AngularJs, JavaScript,  Silverlight, XAML, Web API, Web Services, WCF, XML, CSS, Bootstrap, HTML, VB.NET, ADO.NET, UML, SQL,  and ORM technology.  • Development Software: Virtual Studio .Net, SQL Server Management Studio, Team Foundation  Server, SVN