Application Specialist Application Specialist Application Specialist Ellicott City, MD Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Application Specialist INTI International Education Sdn Bhd February 2016 to June 2019 Providing technical support for different system inside the organization. Was part of successful  implementation of PeopleSoft Financials with leading role of data migration and conversion activities. INTI  is moving to Cloud based Oracle financial system in 2018 and will be handling the data conversion  activities.    Key Achievements:  • Performing monthly Revenue amortization and recognition activities using QlikView BI tool  • Developed C# application to extract, transform and load SIS Revenue into QlikView  • Developed QlikView application to create journals after amortization process is run. Journals are exported  in Peoplesoft Financials system journal upload template.  • Enhancement of Telerik reporting for Mercury Housing system  • Developed Data Conversion program using Data Tools for SQL Server. Application was used for data ETL  from Sage ACCPAC to Peoplesoft Financials system in Regional rollout for AMEA across 5 countries.  • Was lead for data migration activities for PeopleSoft implementation  • Improving the current Student Information System in .Net Software Development Manager Sheroz Resources Sdn. Bhd - Kuala Lumpur, MY September 2013 to January 2016 Leading the development, enhancements and support for 9Fold.me, a New York based client, for a Web  and Mobile based Online Food Delivery System for the past 3 years. System is has grown to hundreds of clients in New York City and surrounding areas within few years.    Key Achievements:  • User Requirement Analysis from various clients from USA, Europe for 9Fold.me  • Development of new features and functionalities based on requirements  • Optimize UI and SQL Server Database Performance  • Implementing CC authorization security measures using a 3rd party payment gateway integration  • Integrate third party software through APIs and Web Services. Integrations include Online Payment  Processing, Remote Printing, Twilio POS, Fax, and many other services.  • Developed company portal, customize solution for individual clients  • Worked on Google Map API to convert distance into blocks  • Managing and leading other development resources throughout the North America and ASEAN FAST National University - Islamabad, PK November 2005 to October 2012 Manager Information Systems FAST National University 2010 to 2012 Main responsibilities include leading product development and enhancements, managing teams at each of the five campuses throughout country, provide support and reporting to upper management.    Key Achievements:    • Conduct requirement/design sessions with users and management in all campuses/Head Office to gather  complete policy and process in order to design various solutions  • Management of entire Admissions Lifecycle for University for various intakes and the 5 campuses of FAST- NU which includes development & management of Online Application, automated testing system, merit list  generation, iterative selection lists. Developed customized dashboard to allow directors, deans, HOD,  Registrar, and Rector to have live view of intake. Over 20,000 applicants for each intake. System developed  using Oracle 9i and ASP.Net  • Installation, configuration of Oracle Financial System & Campus Solutions for POC for Higher Management  • Create various dashboards and reports based on organizations KPI's for upper management and Board of Directions, Board of Trustees  • Delivering presentations for higher management conveying analytics and reports  • Customization, configuration and deployment of the custom built academic suite  • Development of Student Feedback System to be used by the Higher Education Commission to be  implemented for 135 universities in Pakistan. CONSULTANCY Uppals Clinic - Islamabad, PK September 2005 to June 2010 Consultant  • Developed an Electronic Patient Management System for leading Hospitals, Diagnostic Centers  and Clinics  • System includes: Patient History Management, Disease Management, Multiple Doctor  Scheduling, Reporting, Employee Management, Prescriptions, Fee Collection  • Provide support to Clinics/Hospitals Consultant Touchstone Communications March 2009 to January 2010 • Develop Web portal to be used by employees, clients and prospects  • Develop complete HR System based on organization's workflows Sr. Software Engineer FAST National University 2008 to 2010 Development and enhancement of various in-house built applications. Implementation of Academic suite for clients such as Beaconhouse National University and Foundation University. Campus System consists  of modules for Student Information Management, Course Management, Registration Management,  Student Grades, Attendance, Transcripts, Graduation, Final Year Projects, and comprehensive reporting  module.    Key Achievements:  • Customizations of various modules for these universities using ASP.NET/VB based on the client  requirements which includes developing and customizing transcripts, grading schemes and configurations of course management, registration management, attendance requirements.  • Development of Outreach Scholarship application for National ICT Scholarship Program. Application  handles applicants' data, result, and merit of over 20,000 applicants throughout Pakistan.  • Development of ad hoc reports for higher management Software Engineer University Staff and Faculty 2005 to 2008 Development of National University Testing and Evaluation System and University Human Resources  Management System. HR application maintains all Employees Information for University Staff and Faculty,  manages payroll, vacation History, provident Funds etc.    Key Achievements:  • Development of various systems for university using ASP.NET/VB/C#, XML, CSS with Oracle 9i in Visual  Studio  • Develop and customize solutions based on the SOP's of the Universities Software Engineer Norsk Data Pakistan July 2004 to August 2005 Determine operational feasibility by evaluating analysis, problem definition, requirements, solution  development, and proposed solutions. Document and demonstrate solutions by developing  documentation, flowcharts, layouts, diagrams, charts, code comments and clear code. Prepare and install  solutions by determining and designing system specifications, standards, and programming.    Key Achievements:  • Development of Counter Automation System for Pakistan Post Office.  • Requirement gathering for Lady Reading Hospital Project.  • Support software releases during test and release cycles  • System Analysis, design and documentation Software Developer Technology Junction May 2004 to June 2004 Develop software solutions by studying information needs; conferring with users; studying systems flow,  data usage, and work processes; investigating problem areas; following the software development  lifecycle.    Key Achievements:  • Developed Web & Desktop applications  • Development and implementation of client and server-side C/C++ based applications  • Design and analysis for optimal software development Education Master of Computer Science in Computer Science Bahria University 2002 to 2004 Skills C#, .Net, MVC, WPF, WCF, Javascript, ASP, Jquery