Product Operator Product Operator Product Operator San Diego, CA Seeking the position of Electrical Sub-Assembler in a growing manufacturing company where my proficiency of setting, operating machines and equipment for production can fully be utilized. Work Experience Product Operator Hewlett Packard - San Diego, CA August 2018 to January 2019 • Work on assembly line of manufacturer color printer  • Operate the fixture to test the printer ink dump  • Load software to final product  • Run the test and report failure to supervisor  • Ensure that all machines are in perfect working orders at all times. Software Associate Developer / Computer Science Anchor General Insurance Company - San Diego, CA January 2004 to January 2015 • Supported and troubleshoot the existing web form-based system using VB/ASP.Net, Visual Studio, SQL Server  • Designed and implemented windows applications, intranet web application, web service.  • Upgraded existing windows applications to new version of Microsoft application.  • Developed SQL queries, store procedure, tables, and triggers using Microsoft SQL Server to support applications.  • Created, enhanced, and debugged programs.  • Implement new business logic, and add new functions to application if necessary.  • Detect across multi-browsers being friendly user for different internet browsers.  • Collaborate with business analysts and project manager for system applications requirements.  • Ability to work on multiple projects simultaneously.  • Completed analysis, and programming and testing for insurance system requirements. Education Bachelor's of Science in Computer Science San Diego State University Skills ADO, ADO.NET, AJAX, ASP, CSS Assessments Mechanical Skills: Monitoring — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to monitor machine indicators in order to ensure safe and appropriate operation. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/ya5b3lqmjsvzucrn Spreadsheets with Microsoft Excel — Completed August 2019 Measures a candidate’s Microsoft Excel knowledge including common tools, PivotTables, conditional & nested formulas, and custom visuals. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/eeipv4j7pckkzi0i Organizational Skills — Proficient August 2019 Arranging and managing information or materials using a set of rules. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/jk8c8n5dzhr-n22d Project Management Skills: Budgeting — Completed August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to manage project budgets by appropriately allocating and monitoring financial resources. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/zgrticstgcrf3rc Project Management Skills: Time Management — Completed August 2019 Prioritizing and allocating time to effectively achieve project deliverables. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/ki1tfmhkmizvl-xy Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Skill Summary  • Experience of operating and maintaining industrial machinery  • Ability to pay attention to details to ensure quality control  • Excellent organizational and job prioritizing.  • Sound communication and time management.  • Platform: Windows server 2003, Vista, NT, 2000, IBM Mainframe  • Languages: C#.Net, VB.Net, Visual Basic, COBOL  • Technologies: ASP.Net, ADO.Net, AJAX, WCF, XML, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, store procedure, master pages.