Software Engineer <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Software Engineer - O. C. Tanner Plano, TX v 13+ years of extensive hands on Application Development work experience throughout the entire project  lifecycle. Solid Functional Programing, OOP problem solving, database development, front-end user experience  design, and interpersonal skills. I enjoy learning new tools/technologies and recently been exploring Kafka,  Docker and apache Spark. Work Experience Software Engineer O. C. Tanner - Salt Lake City, UT October 2015 to Present DEVOps)  Environment: Scala, Java8, Play framework, Akka, Kafka, Spring Boot, JPA, Hibernate, Slick, Squeryl, Anorm, Heroku, Rabbitmq, Stackato, Github, Intellij, Codacy, Postgres DB, Memcache, AWS,  Junit, ScalaTest, JPA, Hibernate 3.0, github.    Description: O.C. Tanner operates in the Human Resource Consulting & Service Provider space. O.C. Tanner provides  related Consulting Services to companies around the world to enable companies to notice and appreciate their  employees' achievements. They provide Custom Built Web Interfaces to their 6500+ Client-base of US Based Companies to administer various Programs.    Objectives of Victories:  • Rebuild P42/NTP monolith system on cutting edge technologies which can be re-usable on web, IOS, Android.  • Microservices released include APIs for:  • Nomination submissions, approvals and presentations,  • E-cards (monitory, non-monitory, instant and scheduled)  • Wall of Fame (social)  • History of Recognition  • User profile maintenance  • Better peer/employee recognition experience with universal catalog.  • Single sign on capability.  • PII data hosting regionally and GDPR protected.  • Continuous Improvement - in culture, in methods, in reducing waste and in results, we want to keep getting  better  • CI and CD for Victories on Cloud.  Roles and Responsibilities:    • Configure CircleCI, Codacy and Swagger for continuous integration, monitoring code quality and ensure code  behavior. Over 15 OC Tanner developers rely on these tools every day.  • Develop, deploy and support micro-services for 30% of company's projects using Scala (PLAY framework) and Akka.  • Worked on considerable number of modules individually and with team and delivered on time.  • Involvement in pipeline includes end-to-end quality and performance issues, optimizing functionality of core  features such as user search by as much as 40%.  • Write JUnit and ScalaTest tests for integration, database and module tests.  • Rewrite dozens of legacy modules as microservices and host them on AWS.  • Worked on performance optimization by implementing common libraries and caching mechanisms.  • Collaborate with Product, UX/UI, QA teams. Software Engineer O. C - Salt Lake City, UT October 2010 to Present Java Developer III O. C. Tanner October 2010 to October 2015 Environment: Java6, Seam Framework, Junit, JBoss Seam 2.1, JPA, Hibernate 3.0, AJAX, XML,Servlet, JSF, ICE  Faces, Facelets, Webservices, JMS, Oracle 10g, SVN.    Objectives of NTP / P42: To empower the existing business & clients to use single integrated application to create & manage incentive based programs, campaigns. Thus providing O.C. Tanner clients to perform Appreciation and  Recognition of their employees by nominating people for awards and sending ecards instantly, providing virtual points for the recognition, determining the product price, placing orders, applying discounts and managing returns of products given for appreciation.    Roles and Responsibilities:  • Took end to end responsibility in implementing the enhancements and fixing issues.  • Developed code with maximum possible Junit test coverage.  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  • Responsible for the code delivery/development on on-time.  • Unit testing is done using Junit and TestNG.  • Implemented complete internal configuration for User Data File load process. Module Lead Planet Online Pvt. Ltd. Hyderabad January 2010 to July 2010 Sr. Software Engineer Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance - Springfield, MA December 2008 to July 2010 Environment: Java, J2EE, JSP/ Servlets, Eclipse, IBM WebSphere 6.1, CVS, SQL Server, ANT, Rational Rose, Windows.    Project Details: The Mass Mutual New Business System is the industry's most advanced and comprehensive new  business processing and underwriting system for term life insurance products. The information is collected from both the end-customer and agent through web-based e-forms, as well as from external data sources for background checks. The  framework encompasses the features like Developing Products and Plans, Case Management, Creation and management of requirements, Underwriting Management, Approval and Issue, Settlement. Tele-underwriters/ Outsourced  inspection.  Roles and Responsibilities:  • Actively participated in design, development and testing phases.  • Prepared HLDs and LLDs technical design documents for different modules.  • Defined project structure and wrote ant build script  • Developed common components for pagination, exception handling and logging  • Authored various web pages using JSP, JSF, JavaScript and CSS  • Designed and developed of Controllers and Hibernate Entity classes  • Wrote JUnit classes for automate testing. Sr. Software Engineer Planet Online Pvt. Ltd. Hyderabad December 2008 to December 2009 Sr. Software Engineer General Information Services Inc November 2006 to July 2007 Environment: JDK1.4, JSP/Servets, Struts, J2EE, EJB, JMS, XML, JavaScript, CSS, ANT, JDBC, MS SQL, Eclipse, Windows.    Project Details: GIS is the fastest growing provider of workforce management and screening solutions in the industry  offering the absolute best in single-platform technology and user experience while focusing on helping organizations  screen, hire, develop, and retain the best possible workforce. GIS client base includes the largest organizations in the insurance, retail, quick-service restaurants, trucking, and convenience store industries. The system interface sends a  dynamically generated XML to GIS web service and receives an acknowledgement XML.    Roles and Responsibilities:  • Develop applications using various in-house components like eFormGenerator, Node Engine, Dashboard, DEM.  • Build java script libraries and register them to the in-house component eFormGenerator.  • Develop web pages using HTML, JavaScript, CSS, Struts, JSP/Servlets.  • Write Unit and integrations tests.  • Develop Business objects, Data access components in Java.  • Use Ant scripts for building and deploying the application  • Write algorithms to see if applicant is in Do not hire list, Recently applied list. Sr. Software Engineer Planet Online Pvt. Ltd. Hyderabad March 2006 to July 2007 Sr. Software Engineer Sun Life Financial - Boston, MA November 2005 to October 2006 Environment: Java, JSP, EJB, XML, Struts, Weblog 8.1, SQL, Rational Rose    Project Details: Sun Life Financials is a global insurance company offering various products and services. Worked in the Annuity Products Group on the development of an Automated Annuity Applicant Tracking System. This system monitors  a case at various stages of Processing, and automates the underwriting process by interfacing with various 3rd party  systems online.    Roles and Responsibilities  • Work with business analysts in signing of requirements  • Use J2SE/J2EE technologies for creating robust web applications.  • Prepared HLDs and LLDs and UML diagrams for different modules.  • Implemented different design patterns like Singleton, DTO and DAO  • Implemented Hibernate framework for mapping java classes to database tables.  • Used Log4J to store log messages and ANT script for building and deployment. Software Engineer Planet Online Pvt. Ltd. Hyderabad December 2004 to February 2006 Software Engineer Combined Services Inc December 2004 to November 2005 USA Dec 2004 to Nov 2005  Project: Complete solution for a US Based group insurance service provider  Role: Software Engineer.  Environment: Java, EJB, XML, Weblogic 8.1, JavaScript, Struts Frame Work, SQL, Rational Rose.    Project Details: This project designed for a US Based group insurance service provider. The application provides a means for commission accounting which allows tracking the commissions CSI should avail from its carriers and  distribute the commissions among its role players like producers, home office employees and BCBS executives.    Roles and Responsibilities  • Coded Struts framework related classes  • Developed ant scripts  • Developed front end JSPs which presents data to the client.  • Developed JavaScript code to do client side validations. Software Trainee In-house Project March 2004 to November 2004 Environment: Java, JSP, EJB, XML, Struts, Weblogic 8.1, SQL, Rational Rose    Project Details: The Policy Processor (TPP) is an end-to-end solution that streamlines new business processing and underwriting of Insurance products.  Roles and Responsibilities  • Used JSP for designing View layer and used JSP Custom Tag Libraries to maintain JSP code free of java code.  • Developed a generic functionality called Tabs, which is used for displaying the navigation bars like Left  navigation, right navigation and top-left navigations based on the database table driven.  • Involved in developing the automated underwriting process that is completely a backend process done based  on the data driven by the XML's. Software Engineer Trainee Planet Online Pvt. Ltd. Hyderabad March 2003 to November 2004 Skills Apache, Docker, Hadoop, Javascript, Jfs, Oauth, Solr, Svn, Eclipse, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jboss, Jms, jquery, Jsp, Struts, Jira, Junit Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Technologies: Scala, Java, J2EE, Play Frame work, Spring, Spring Boot, Akka, Kafka, Anorm,  Slick, Squeryl, OAuth, SQL, P/L SQL, Postgres, Spring, MVC, Hibernate, JPA,  Rest, Maven, JSP, JFS, JMS, Struts, JQuery, CSS, AJAX, javascript.    Tools: IntelliJ, Eclipse, Docker, ANT, Maven, Swagger, RabbitMq, Github, JUnit,  SoapUI, SQL Developer, SVN, Hadoop, postman, papertrail, Kibana, Grafana,  CDN, Elastic Search, Solr Search, membanks.    CI/CD Tools: Bamboo, CircleCI, Codacy, Github, Docker, AWS(Alamo), Heroku, Stackato,  password vault.    Methodologies and tools: Agile, Scrum, Lean, Jira, Confluence, Sharepoint, Lucid charts.    Databases/Web Containers: Heroku, AWS, Postgres, MySQL, Oracle, MS SQL Server, DB2, WebLogic,  JBoss, Apache, and Tomcat, H2.