Sr .Net Developer Sr .Net <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr .Net Developer - Duke Energy Tampa, FL • Over 15 years of solid experience in developing and leading Enterprise level applications.  • Domain expertise in Energy, Healthcare, Auto, Banking, Finance, Insurance and IT.  • Expert in developing .NET applications using ASP.NET, C#, VB.NET with the databases such as MS SQL Server, DB2 and Oracle.  • Demonstrated experience in solution architecture, application design and database design.  • Proficient on Window Forms, Windows services, Web Forms, ASP.Net Web Services & WCF.  • Experience in Database modeling, design, writing SQL queries, stored procedures and Triggers.  • Experience with Software Development Processes & Models: Agile, Waterfall, RAD & Scrum.  • Excellent analytical skills with Proficiency in debugging and Problem Solving.  • Demonstrated knowledge in HTML, DHTML, CSS, XML, AJAX and Object Oriented Programming and MVC.  • Extensive experience with meeting business clients to identify business requirements, preparing process flow diagrams, writing analysis documents and application design documents.  • Demonstrated knowledge in Performance Tuning for SQL Server Queries and Stored Procedures.  • Having good problem solving and analytical skills, highly motivated, quick learner.  • Excellent oral and written communication skills to appropriately identify and respond to business needs and to be customer focused to facilitate the presentation of recommendations. Work Experience Sr .Net Developer Duke Energy January 2015 to Present Load Management System (LMS): Working as a senior .Net developer to provide a solution, to the Demand Response Team of Duke Energy. I have developed a web application for the business users at Energy Control Center, to control the customer appliances such as water heaters, pool pumps and Air Conditioners.  I have a developed a GUI using .Net application to interface with third party head systems, to control their load management devices. Developed application module to call the third-party APIs to retrieve the telemetry data from the devices and save that data in corporate database, for further analysis. Created reporting functionality on the web application, for the business users, to generate ad-hoc reports, for upper management.  Played a key role as a subject matter expert (SME) to document the systems requirements. I worked with business and development teams, to lead the application development effort. I reviewed the testing efforts for the application to meet the techno functional requirements and performance criteria.  Load Management Controller (LMC): LMC is the legacy system that is used to control the customer appliances, using the 1-way paging devices. The core of the system is the web application, developed using .Net and SQL Server. The web application controls over 700,000 devices, installed at customer homes, by sending the appropriate custom messages. When a control event is initiated in the web application, the logic determines how and when to control the devices and dispatches the appropriate messages to the devices. I play key role in incremental development efforts, testing, production migration and post production support.  Environment: ASP.NET, SQL Server, C#, MVC, ADO.NET, AJAX, XML, AngularJS, Oracle 11g Sr .Net Developer Southern California Edison - Edison, CA January 2011 to January 2015 Project - Energy Forecast Platform (EFP): I provided a software solution to Forecasting Group of Southern California Edison to accurately forecast the Energy and Prices with significant reduction in manual work. I led the development effort with a team (both offshore and onsite).  Environment: ASP.NET, C#, ADO.NET, WPF, WCF, NUnit, MVC, MVVM, JQuery, AngularJS, Telerik, TFS, Oracle 11g, Teradata, Hadoop, SAS 9.1, Enterprise Guide 5.1  Project - Energy Planning Platform (EPP): The Planning Group at Power Supply OU needed a solution to analyze the portfolio position and calculate the risk with minimal manual work. I was responsible for analyze the requirements and the solution design.  Conducted the Joint Application Development (JAD) sessions to gather the business requirements and document the systems requirements. Led the architecture and development effort for the .NET Application. Used the agile/scrum methodology for the quick turnaround of the solution deliverables. Reviewed the .NET code and performed the user acceptance test.    Environment: ASP.NET Web Forms, C#, WPF, WCF, ADO.NET, AJAX, XML, AngularJS, Telerik, TFS Oracle 11g, Crystal Reports, Erwin Lead Programmer Warner Brothers May 2009 to December 2010 Project - Rights and Release Tracking System (RRTS): Provided a solution to track the rights and releases of the movies produced by Warner Brothers with a budget of $3 million with a timeline of 15 months.  Provided solution architecture using Microsoft .NET technologies, and designed the database. Led a team of developers and testers both onsite and offshore. Designed the 'Daily Health Check' solution to provide the current status of all the daily operations for upper management.    Environment: ASP.NET, C#, ADO.NET, .Net Web Services, SQL Server 2008, Crystal Reports 11 Senior Software Engineer Kaiser Permanente February 2008 to April 2009 Project - KP.ORG: Developed a solution to centralize the clinical data across all the Kaiser hospitals with a budget of $2.5 million in 14 months.  Interviewed the clinical lab personnel to understand their existing process and various formats of storing the data at individual locations. I was instrumental in architecting a solution to centralize the data using the existing hardware and software. Designed a .NET WEB Application that is available to all the Kaiser hospitals to securely login and enter the clinical lab data directly in to the centralized database.  Environment: ASP.NET, C#, ADO.NET, Web Services, SQL Server 2008 Senior Software Engineer American Honda Motors, Torrance January 2007 to January 2008 Project - Trade Compliance System:  Developed a web application that enables American Honda Motors to imports the auto parts from all over the world and manage the US Customs transactions at all US facilities.  Led JAD sessions and documented the business processes involved in dealing with US Customs dept. Involved in architecting the solution and database design. Designed a WEB solution that effectively integrates and exchanges the data with the current systems.  Environment: ASP.NET, C#, SQL Server 2000 Senior Software Engineer Superior Industries, Van Nuys August 2001 to January 2007 Worked as senior software engineer and provided enterprise wide software solution to improve the manufacturing capacity by 5%. Architected and developed a web application to consolidate the stand alone applications and reduce the manual labor by 15%  Environment: ASP, VB Script, Java Script, SQL Server 2000, Crystal Reports Education MBA in Management Information Systems University of South Florida Project Management Certification University of California Irvine - Irvine, CA Skills Ajax, Asp, Css, Asp.net, Sharepoint, Soa, Ado, Db2, Ms access, Ado.net, Ms sql server, Sql server, Oracle, Sql, Visual studio, C#, Hadoop, Html, Wcf, Vb.net Additional Information TECHNICAL PROFILE  Technology Tools  ASP.NET, VB.NET, C#, ADO.NET, AJAX, MVC, WCF, WPF, MS SQL server, Oracle 11g, DB2, HTML, SAS 9.1, HTML, CSS, VB Script, Java Script, Power Shell, XML, XSD, XSLT, SOA, SOAP, REST, Nunit, AngularJS, Entity Framework, TFS, Big Data  iRise, Visio, Visual Studio, Visual Source Safe  TOAD, Rapid SQL and MSOffice  MS Access, MS SSIS, SSAS, SSRS, SSMS, Telerik, Crystal Reports, SAS Enterprise Guide 5.1, TFS, Hadoop, SharePoint.