Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer - TIMES INTERNET • Good experience of development in Java and J2EE applications.  • Exposing and consuming SOAP & REST webservices  • Hands on experience on ORM implementation using hibernate, JPA  • Good knowledge of Springboot framework  • Strong in Data Structures and algorithms  • Knowledge of databases and their management  • Efficient in Code Debugging for issue fixing  • Knowledge of build tools such as ANT, MAVEN and code efficiency tool SONAR, Cobertura and  jacoco for code coverage reports  • Extensive knowledge on statecharts  • Good analytical, troubleshooting, organizational, communication, prioritization, and problem  solvingskills with ability to create and sustain high work tempo. Work Experience Software Developer TIMES INTERNET April 2019 to Present Involved Knowledge: Java, Springboot, Morphia, Kafka, Web services, JUnits, Gradle.  Environment: MAC OS  Tools: Intellij, PostMan, JIRA, Mongo DB, Git.    Synopsis: Times Points is a digital loyalty program that rewards users for engaging with TIL network sites and transactions. These activities on the network include sharing and recommending articles, actively contributing  reviews and blogs & posting comments across its various sites. Users can also redeem Times Points for exciting  gifts on timespoints.com.    Responsibilties:  • Implemented the report generation program for CCR(Customer Care Representative).  • Developed the flow of providing bonus points to dormant users.  • Implemented the flow of delinking TP Verified mobile no. from user's account.  • Designed and completed merging of user's points earned by several channels.  • Implemented web flows using JAVA, datastructures, design patterns.  • Dev Testing the developed code using Junit and SOAPUI Testing. Software Developer Personal Cloud Backup June 2017 to Present Client: Mali, Congo, Brazil, Nigeria.  Involved Knowledge: Java, JMX, SOAPUI, JUnits, EJB, Maven, WSDL, Stubs.  Environment: JBoss, Windows 7  Tools: Eclipse, PostMan, Sonar, Jenkins, Nexus, Confluence, JIRA.  Synopsis: The Gemalto solution that provides end users the possibility to backup their personal data stored in mobile equipment (SIM/Handset) in a secure server. The schemes implemented gives credit to user and then  avail the facility of Synchronization, backup, reset the data    Responsibilties:  • Designing of business flows according to HLD.  • Integration of product with 3rd party services using SOAP webservices (WSDL).  • Implemented web flows using JAVA, datastructures, design patterns.  • Dev Testing the developed code using Junit and SOAPUI Testing.  • Mercurial using tortoiseHg, code quality management using SONAQUBE 5.0 of source code.  • Security audit, fixing security issues of product using Fortify 18.10,  • Automated product delivery process creating multiple jobs using Jenkins.  • Providing delivery on Nexus.  • Worked on documentation - HLD, SDD, FRS Associate Software Developer STK Push Proxy June 2016 to Present Client: MPesa Payment System (Safaricom Kenya)  Involved Knowledge: Java, SOAPUI, JUnits, Statecharts, Maven, APDU, PLSQL.  Environment: Windows 7  Tools: Eclipse, Sonar, Jenkins, Nexus, Confluence, JIRA.    Synopsis: The Gemalto solution can securely authenticate and confirm transactions using mobile phone asan  identity verification mean.It involves ciphering and deciphering of message from SIM to custom and vice versa    Responsibilties:  • Designing of business flows according to HLD.  • Implemented web flows using JAVA, datastructures, design patterns.  • Dev Testing the developed code using Junit and SOAPUI Testing.  • Mercurial using tortoiseHg, code quality management using SONAQUBE 5.0 of source code.  • Security audit, fixing security issues of product using Fortify 18.10,  • Automated product delivery process creating multiple jobs using Jenkins.  • Providing delivery on Nexus.  • Worked on documentation - HLD, SDD, FRS Intern S O InfoTech Pvt Ltd June 2015 to June 2016 Title: Tours and Travels    Tools: Java J2EE (JSP/Servlet), Oracle DB  Worked as aWeb Application Developer for company's project Tours and Travels -Anautomated tour and travel system for processing flight reservations, booking hotels, insurance, booking vehicles and trains and  holiday packages. Education B.Tech in CSE Jaypee Institute Of Information Tech. JaJJaypeeUniversity 2016 Class X D.A.V Public School 2010 Class XII D.A.V Public School Additional Information Skill Sets    Programming Languages Java, C++, C  JavaEE technologies Web services (SOAP/REST)  Databases Mongo, Oracle10g, MySQL 5.6  ORM Hibernate  Framework Springboot  Web technologies HTML, CSS  Design Statemachines  Source Code Control Management Git, Mercurial using tortoiseHg  Source code quality Management Sonar, Cobertura, jacoco  Build Tools Gradle, Maven  Servers Weblogic 10,12c, Tomcat, JBOSS  Scripting Language Groovy  DevTesting Junits, SoapUI  Platforms MAC OS, Windows XP, 7, 8, 8.1, Linux(Ubuntu)  Others Kafka, JMS (ActiveMQ), JMX Counters, APDU,  JConsole, Putty  Area of Interests Data Structures, Algorithms, Object Oriented  Programming