Senior .NET Developer (Consultant) Senior .NET <span class="hl">Developer</span> (Consultant) Senior .NET Developer (Consultant) Miami, FL Work Experience Senior .NET Developer (Consultant) Ryder Systems - Miami, FL July 2018 to July 2019 Worked on 3 tier application using MySQL, .NET 4.7 (web application) . NET Core 2.2 (API)  ? Worked on web application to regenerate corrupted XML's.  ? Supported legacy .NET (c# and VB.net) applications with SQL Server as the backend. Senior .NET Developer (Consultant) Interstate Title Solutions, Delray Beach, FLMarch 2017 to March 2018 Wrote Restful API's and WCF Services to call DMV API's  ? Worked on .NET Web application call ColdFusion to DMV API's for Tags Issuance.  ? Used JQuery DataTables to display the response from DMV.  ? Developed prototype for accessing QuickBooks (Desktop version) through web application using QODBC and QRemote server and client. Senior .NET Developer (Consultant) Ryder Systems - Miami, FL March 2016 to March 2017 Worked on Web API and implemented Custom Token Based Authentication and hosted it on Azure.  ? Worked on web application which communicates with Web API via CORS.  ? Implemented .NET Core API layer to authenticate and retrieve the list of Capital Expenditure Microsoft SharePoint.  ? Worked closely with Enablon (third party) to access their Web API.  ? Developed HTML 5 web site to make it user friendly on Mobile devices.  ? Supported existing vb.net web application. Technical Lead - Software Development JPay, Miramar, FLMarch 2011 to October 2015 Successfully worked as a technical lead in integrating existing .Net Web Forms Site with MVC Framework.  ? Involved in migrating existing Windows based vBulletin Public Forms to Red Hat Linux OS.  ? Worked closely with the developers in putting code together and standing up new kiosk(s) software's (Windows Applications).  ? Continuously communicating with the marketing as well as the business personal in gathering the requirements and guide the team members for completing the projects on time.  ? Excellent team member and maintained great relationship with both Technical, Marketing and Management teams. Senior .NET Developer (Consultant) Bright Star Health Care, Gurnee, ILDecember 2009 to December 2010 Displayed tremendous learning curve in understanding and creating WCF End Points and publishing and Exposing them over IIS  ? Used extensively .NET AJAX Controls to minimize the page refresh and provide a better user experience.  ? Developed customer payments, prospects and optimization reports using SQL Reporting Services  ? Developed validation both on client and server side using JavaScript and server validation methods  ? Unit tested the application right from the beginning on cross-browsers.  ? Worked closely with both Database and QA team members to reach the deadlines of the deliverables.    Environment / Technologies: ASP.NET 3.5/ 4.0, Visual Studio 2008/ 2010, SQL Server 2008 Management Studio, Entity Framework (EF), LINQ, LINQPad, WCF, IIS 6.0/7.0, Windows 7 Ultimate 64 bit, JavaScript Senior .NET Developer OmegaCube Technologies, Itasca, ILNovember 2008 to November 2009 Involved in requirement analysis and designing the web solution.  ? Incorporated Rich UI, user friendly responsive features in the Web Application using C#, JavaScript, Ajax Tool Box, AJAX.NET professional and Visual Studio 2008.  ? Developed Master Page and Business Components.  ? Build Unicode Support and Server-Side Regular Expressions for Strict Server Side input Validations.  ? Used Third Party toolkit Infragistics for Silverlight Application.  ? Hands on experience in Windows Presentation Foundation (WPF).  ? Used AJAX Tool Box, ASP.NET and AJAX.NET professional extensively for best UI's.  ? Customized DevExpress EUD [End User Designer] to provide the ability to create edit reports by end users.    Environment / Technologies: ASP.NET 3.0/3.5, Visual Studio 2008, Developer Express .NET v8.3/9.1/9.3, Oracle 10g, Infragistics, JavaScript, AJAX Tool Kit, ASP.NET, AJAX.NET, DHTML, CSS Senior .NET Developer (Consultant) IMSFASTPAK, Morton Grove, ILMay 2007 to October 2008 Involved in Requirement Analysis and Design of the new system.  ? Created UML (Class, Sequence and Component) diagrams using Visio.  ? Designed and developed Win Forms using .NET 2.0 Framework.  ? Designed and developed .NET components using C# and XML to communicating with Web Services.  ? Handled Validation both on Client-Side also at Server-Side using JavaScript and Error Providers and Validating Events.  ? Designed Database for both Project Management and Time Tracking systems.  ? Designed UI screens based on the requirements.  ? Unit tested in Cross Browsers, application right from the start to shorten development time.  ? Accessing C# Methods [Database Related] via AJAX Calls .NET Developer (Consultant) Discover Financials, River Woods, IL September 2006 to May 2007 Designed and developed Web Forms using ASP.NET.  ? Prepared program specifications, use Case Diagrams and developed coding logic flowcharts.  ? Applied AJAX in Web Forms using ASP.NET AJAX Controls in .NET 2.0 Framework.  ? Involved in all phases of the Project Life Cycle and also analysis of the system based on n-tier architecture.  ? Created Stored Procedures, Views, and Triggers SQL Queries in Oracle 9i. .NET Developer (Consultant) SBC, San Antonio, TXFebruary 2005 to August 2006 Designed Windows Forms by using intrinsic WinForm Controls and Custom developed controls using C#.NET.  ? Developed Custom Business Objects (Data Transfer Objects) using Typed Datasets, Custom Classes and Collections in C#.NET.  ? Implemented XML Web Service methods for online mode of the application.  ? Used Nunit as Unit Testing Tool.    FIS Global, Sunrise, FL Software Developer August 2004 to January 2005 Involved in design and develop the entire application using Cold Fusion 5.0 from scratch.  ? Written JavaScript functions exclusively all over the application, and developed some nice functions like database driven JavaScript Calendar, dynamically setting Printer Preferences by calling Active X controls, exchanging SQL Server Data to JavaScript using WDDX etc.  ? Worked closely with QA Personals and fixing issues right away in Development and QA environments.    Prior experience provided upon request Education Bachelor of Science in Engineering University of Mumbai - Mumbai, Maharashtra