Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Developer Fullerton, CA Highly motivated, self-starter, diligent, eager to learn new things, team player, bringing IT Experience with expertise in Full Stack Web Development, Artificial Intelligence, Deep Learning, Software Development and Quality Assurance Testing of various programs on different languages including C, C++, Python and JavaScript. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Developer Karat By Lollicup USA, Inc. - Chino, CA September 2018 to Present o  Leading project to develop and maintain Point of Sales software (POS)  o  Practicing Java swing and MySQL to customized features in POS based on requirements  o  Optimizing component and server for maximum performance across web applicable devices and browser  o  Working on Magento Front end and Back end to maintain and improve the website  o  Customizing features and improving ecommerce website using HTML, CSS, JavaScript and PHP  o  Manage site monitoring tool to monitor web pages using PHP, MySQL and HTML, CSS.  o  Responsible for Windows and Linux server deployment based on requirements  o Good experience on working with Amazon Web Services like EC2, S3 , Amazon Simple DB , Amazon RDS , Amazon Elastic Load Balancing. System Engineer/Web Developer Silicon Technolabs - Surat, Gujarat May 2015 to June 2016 o Interacted with clients for understanding the technical requirements and resolving production issues.  o Dealt with the heterogeneous network. (Linux & Windows).  o Communicated with customers as required: keeping them informed of incident progress.  o Developed deep expertise and hands on experience with HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX and API.  o Developed hands on design experience with Web Services (REST, SOAP).  o Installed, configured, tested and maintained operating systems, software and system management tools.  o Analyzed and documented complex issues arising from handset/network interaction.  o Developed strong grasp of security principles and application on E-Commerce applications.  o Worked closely with application developers, interface designers, editors and IT Communication Specialists, adding  greater insight into web performance.  o Analyzed and documented complex issues arising from handset/network interaction.  o Actively sought tough projects to learn to develop programming skills and problem-solving skills.  o Provided technical services and support at the network level: WAN and LAN connectivity, routers, and security. Education MS in Computer Engineering California State University Fullerton August 2016 to May 2018 BE in Electrical Engineering Gujarat Technological University June 2011 to May 2015 Skills Python (1 year), HTML (2 years), CSS3 (2 years), C (2 years), C++ (2 years), SQL (1 year), Machine Learning (Less than 1 year), Javascript (1 year), JQuery (1 year), Angular5 (2 years), ReactJS (2 years), PHP, Wordpress, Angular, Java (1 year), MySQL, HTML 5, Git, ASP, AWS, CSS Links https://in.linkedin.com/in/disha-patel https://github.com/dishap707 https://dishapatel707.wixsite.com/dishaportfolio Additional Information PROJECTS    Messaging App (Angular 5, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, RESTful API, JSON, Typescript) April 2018– May 2018  o Provided token-based authorization to authenticate users who attempt to log in to the server.  o Developed appropriate code structures to solve specific tasks.  o Gathered and refined specifications and requirements based on technical needs.    Email Identifier (Python) August 2017 – December 2017  o Implemented Naive Bayes, KNN and SVM in python using a dataset of 1000 emails from Scikit-learn ML library.  o Achieved an accuracy of Naive Bayes 90%, KNN 85% and SVM 80% based on a different feature of each algorithm.  o Compared accuracy of each algorithm using NumPy and Pandas.    Image Retrieval System (Deep Learning, MONGO DB, Agile) August 2016 – December 2016  o Implemented deep learning for detecting the type of objects in the image.  o Used histogram-based image feature extraction and the results were stored in a Mongo DB.  o Achieved a retrieval accuracy rate of 98.7%.    Web Application Development (JavaScript, PHP, jQuery, HTML, CSS AJAX) December 2015 – May 2016  o Designed home page that provides navigation to information and order links for specific products.  o Collaborated with the developers to create simple and clean interfaces and intuitive interaction.  o Communicated with clients to obtain more information and discuss design options.    Twitter Clone (MVC framework, PHP, Bootstrap, MySQL, HTML, CSS) January 2015 – June 2015  o Created core experience that allows people to log in and sign up and view their public tweets.  o Created browser and platform compatible codes and maintained consistency in design and layout.  o Used phpMyAdmin to check valid users at the login page and maintaining id of the users with XAMPP