Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer - Travelers Insurance Minneapolis-Saint Paul, MN Work Experience Software Developer Travelers Insurance - Saint Paul, MN June 2019 to Present Develop web applications to display vital automated system information using React.js with TypeScript.  ? Design and maintain a Nest.js application to create a REST API that serves data about our automated  system information.  ? Create Jenkins scripts to rapidly deploy our web applications and microservices to Pivotal Cloud Foundry  virtual machines.  ? Maintain and implement features for monolithic web application written in Java using Spring Boot.  ? Meticulously test code using JUnit for Spring Boot applications, and Jest for Node.js applications.  ? Manage the development of projects using Git, and SVN. Software Engineer Intern SICK Inc - Bloomington, MN May 2017 to May 2019 Independently Developed multi-page, cross-platform, Full-stack web applications for embedded systems  using a proprietary TypeScript library for users to interface with embedded devices.  ? Developed Lua scripts to provide functionality for the embedded devices to allow users to write  information, process input from devices, and parse raw byte data to unicode strings.  ? Created REST API endpoints in Lua to allow communication between an embedded device and our web  applications.  ? Tested REST API endpoints using Postman.  ? Designed scripts to convert XML data to JSON, and vice versa in Lua.  ? Developed Java projects to communicate with embedded systems, and to modify device parameters and configurations that are used in production. Student Researcher Augsburg University Mathematics Department - Minneapolis, MN May 2018 to July 2018 Generated solutions for linear equations to approximate the deflection of a beam under stress.  ? Derived equations for systems of linear equations to enforce specific boundary conditions of the beam  ? The results were computed and visualized using the Octave programming language, and written with Jupyter Notebooks to organize and annotate the work.  ? Utilized special plotting packages with the Julia programming language to create high quality animated  visualizations of the beam under stress. Education Master of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science Georgia Institute of Technology - Atlanta, GA Present Bachelor of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science Augsburg University - Minneapolis, MN May 2019 Skills Android, Javascript, MYSQL, Git, HTML 5, CSS, Jquery Links http://github.com/wowbob396