Service Desk Analyst Service Desk Analyst Service Desk Analyst - NeuGen Danville, CA Work Experience Service Desk Analyst NeuGen - Madison, WI February 2019 to Present • Serve as a "front line" first-tier helpdesk analyst to help callers experiencing simple and common technical issues, and triaging issues requiring more dedicated work to address.  • Help maintain internal knowledge base for service desk team, adding, revising, and reformatting numerous process and information articles about systems we support.  • Maintain and support audio-visual equipment in the building; recently completed a project to replace old projectors in frequently-used conference rooms with a new large-display setup. Software Developer Epic Systems Corporation - Verona, WI September 2016 to June 2018 • Worked on Hospital Billing R&D team as web and database developer.  • Worked heavily on re-writing old Visual Basic code as web code, as part of the company initiative to transition all GUI code to web, including Hospital Account Summary and Proration Review activities.  • Aided Professional Billing team in adding occupational health support to the Enterprise Billing module.  • Investigated, designed, and developed fixes for numerous pre-existing software bugs, both internally and customer reported.  • Worked primarily in Web, .NET and M database code, alongside semi-frequent Visual Basic development as part of bug fixes. Software Developer Intern Epic Systems Corporation - Verona, WI June 2015 to August 2015 Worked on Ambulatory team (division which is now Healthy Planet), primarily in C#. Delivery Expert Domino's Pizza - Danville, CA 2012 to 2014 Extensive experience in customer service and interaction. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science University of Arizona - Tucson, AZ August 2012 to May 2016 Skills .net, C#, C++, M/mumps, Mumps, Python, Visual basic, Cache, Bash, Active directory, Version control, Java, Ftp, Web design, Mips, Computer troubleshooting, 3d modeling, Graphic design, Assembly, C, Audio Editing, image editing Additional Information Skills  Fluent in Java, Python, .NET/C# and Web development, M/MUMPS/Cache,  Familiar with C & C++, Bash, MIPS assembly, Visual Basic, Web design, Active Directory and other fundamental IT tools  Experience building desktop computers, FTP and SSH, pair and group programming and development cycle, version control, image and audio editing, general graphic design, 3d modeling, video editing, general computer troubleshooting    Interests  Avid puzzler, gamer, and game modder  Experience with acting, theater technical design  Enjoys and plays several varieties of music