Frontend Developer Frontend <span class="hl">Developer</span> Frontend Developer - MonARC Bionetworks - Redwood City Mountain View, CA Work Experience Frontend Developer MonARC Bionetworks - Redwood City December 2018 to Present Worked on the patient research network site, a platform that helps collect patient data to accelerate their enrollment into clinical trials. Designed  and developed user friendly website to increase user clicks. Fixed bugs on the site and worked on enhancements & new features. Developed the admin page to make work of network liaisons easier. Integrated google analytics for better tracking. Incorporated medchat to allow ease of  communication with patients. Worked on creating dynamic landing pages in play scala template to increase user registrations for various diseases.  [Skills- React, Redux, HTML, CSS, Jest, Cypress, JIRA, GitHub, Contentful, Google Analytics, Google Tag Manager, Medchat, Scrum, HIPAA] Software Developer RedFlag LLC November 2017 to December 2018 Developed a software suite designed to analyze social media engagement with target material to help clients engage with wider audiences in a more productive manner. Built a scraping and machine learning backend API for the website in Python. Worked on developing server-side app in  Node.js. Building a company administration panel for internal use in React and Redux. [Skills- Python, Flask, Falcon, OAauth, Node.js, React, Redux, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, Flask, Grommet, JavaScript, JSON, PostgreSQL, AWS, GCP, RESTful API, Postman, Jest, Mocha] Software Developer Intern JadeStream - San Jose, CA June 2017 to September 2017 Developed a demo tvOS application using Swift that is connected to JadeStream's server and allows users to select a live video playlist  from a palette of all available live, on-demand online programs and view them using MultiView technology. [Skills- tvOS, Swift, JSON] Part-time Web Developer Mylifeline - Denver, CO June 2016 to December 2016 Worked with CodeIgniter PHP framework based on the MVC architectural pattern in a Linux environment using Apache web server and MySQL as the relational database management system (LAMP stack). Added new features to the website, especially the helping calendar, enhanced  privacy settings, computed search engine for searching for resources and friend's pages. Worked on refining the appearance of the website  by deploying a new web design and layout which is live now. [Skills- LAMP stack- Linux, apache, MySQL, PHP, HTML, CSS] MVC Design Pattern - Boulder, CO 2016 to December 2016 • Worked with a team to build a stand-alone app that allowed users to access hotel administrative activities and employee services.  • Identified and executed Singleton, Factory, and Observer Design Pattern in MVC to overcome the requirements of the task. Used  Hibernate ORM framework to map java objects to the MySQL database. Adopted the Swing toolkit to create the frontend GUI.  • Successfully implemented a highly modular hotel management app adhering to OO Principles following Agile Methodology. LAMP stack developer University of Colorado Boulder - Boulder, CO April 2016 to April 2016 • Performed the role of a LAMP stack developer in successfully implementing a secure web app for recruitment management.  • Set up an Apache web server and a MariaDB server to implement a secure app that prevents SQL injection, XSS attacks, provides  user authentication, https and timeout session.  • Managed a relational database using MySQL, developed server-side script in PHP, web layout and designing using HTML and CSS. University of Colorado Boulder - Boulder, CO January 2016 to March 2016 Developed the machine learning algorithms K-Nearest Neighbor's Classifier, Support Vector Machine Classifier and Tree Classifier  for classifying the database of songs to their respective genres.  • Recognized a notion of distance in Song Space using KL Divergence with low level features like MFCC's and Chroma (NPCP)  • SVM Classifier provides best results with prediction accuracy of 60%. KNN Classifier provide s best results for Classical genre with an accuracy of 86%. The SVM and Tree Classifiers improve classification of World, Rock, Electronic and Jazz tracks. Education Master of Science in Electrical and Computer Engineering in Object Oriented Analysis and Design University of Colorado - Boulder, CO September 2015 to May 2017 Bachelor of Engineering in Electronics and Telecommunication in Electronics and Telecommunication K.J. Somaiya College of Engineering - Mumbai, Maharashtra August 2011 to July 2015 Skills C++, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, NODE.JS, REDUX, PHP, CODEIGNITER, PYTHON, FLASK, OPENCV, CSS, LAMP Stack, LAMP, MYSQL, SQL, ECLIPSE, JAVA, HIBERNATE, SPRING, LINUX Links https://github.com/Radhika231 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Languages: Java, C, C++, Matlab, Python, PHP, HTML, CSS, SQL, Tools: GitHub, Eclipse, Puppet, Microsoft Office, UML Diagrams,  MySQL, bash script, JavaScript GNU Radio, VMware, Gunicorn, Waitress, AWS, GCP, Postman  Frameworks and Libraries: Flask, Node.js, React, Redux, CodeIgniter, Operating Systems: Windows, Linux, Ubuntu, Mac  Flask, Falcon, Hibernate, Spring, Swing, LAMP Stack, OpenGL,  OpenCV, Jupyter Notebook