Founder Founder Software Developer Youngstown, OH Work Experience Founder Duskey Computer Services, LLC - Youngstown, OH 2015 to Present ? Manage all IT related tasks for small business clients, including network security, configuration of servers and workstations, etc.   ? Created new programs to integrate with the existing ticketing systems that were being offered, to increase client response time and ticket closing times.Also created scripts to automate the installation of monitoring software across an entire network, to save time and cost while onboarding.   ? Worked with clients to determine the best way to address unique issues (such as multiple users using the same computers, and how to keep the licensing cost down).  ? Created custom SLAs for each client, to best serve their needs and keep client satisfaction high by keeping expectations managed.   ? Worked to develop the most resource and time efficient computer management protocols, that way client devices stay patched and operational, while the client sees little to no downtime on their end during business hours. Software Developer Phantom Fireworks Present ? Project Lead on over 4 different projects, all of which are now being utilized by the company.  ? Sole Developer that created various web applications to increase productivity in both the corporate office and retail showrooms, using  various technologies such as Python, Android (Java), RabbitMQ, etc.  ? Worked with the IT department to deploy and maintain the newly created software.  ? Communicated with other departments in the corporate office to build custom software solutions to increase  company-wide performance. Information Technology Intern Phantom Fireworks - Youngstown, OH May 2018 to May 2019 ? Developed software to reduce deployment and configuration times from 30 minutes per machine to 30 seconds of script launching.  ? Maintained operability at stores across the United States by taking periodic business trips to locations such as Cheyenne, Wyoming and South Carolina.   ? Project manager for a software that made it easier to calculate and examine store profitability and compare this to historical data, as well as a web portal to manage third party inventory returns Education Bachelor's in Progress in Computer Science/Applied Mathematics Youngstown State University - Youngstown, OH Present Skills Html, Javascript, Python, Ec2, Sso, Css, Postgres, Sql, Linux, Android, REST API (2 years) Additional Information • Python  • SQL (MariaDB and Postgres)  • Front end web technologies (HTML, CSS, Javascript)  • Linux  • Windows (Server + End User)  • RabbitMQ  • Heroku  • AWS (EC2, S3)  • SSO (Google Apps)