Senior Software Engineer ( Software Developer and Debugging) Senior <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer (<span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> and Debugging) Senior Software Engineer ( Software Developer and Debugging) Dublin, CA • Engineering Professional possesses about 5.4+ years of IT experience.  • Involvement in Software Development And Development Life Cycle.  • Experience in Software Development  • Experience in Manual Testing.  • Excellent communication, interpersonal skills. Quick learner, versatile, adaptable and process -oriented with high customer orientation.  Technical Development Skills  OS: MS Windows 7,8, Windows 10, Window Server  Domain: Web Services, Remote Connection, Window Services  Testing: Manual Testing  Development Technology: Dotnet core, MySQL, Asp.net, PL/SQL, Ajax, Crystal Report, WCF, MVC, XML, Jquery, Json), Xml, WebServises, Window Services, WebApi, MSSQL, Nodejs, Postgresql(10.4) Work Experience Senior Software Engineer ( Software Developer and Debugging) SrinSoftTech February 2018 to January 2019 Project Details  Project Title: BLM(Building LifeCycle Management System)  Technology: Dotnet Core (2.2), Postgressql(10.4), Web Api, Node.js, Mssql 2017, TypeScript, Web Application  Duration: Feb 2018 to Jan 2019  Responsibilities:    • Involved in preparation of Development and Management.  • Automated Project Creation And Handling 3d Data in Database  • Building Issue Maintain    A building management system (BMS) is a control system that can be used to monitor and manage the mechanical, electrical and electromechanical services in a facility. Such services can include power, heating, ventilation, air-conditioning, physical access control, pumping stations, elevators and lights. Senior Software Engineer ( Software Developer and Debugging) Job cookies October 2017 to 2018 Project Details  Project Title: Insurance Company(Smart Form Services) (CunaMutualInsurance and Mutual Fund)  Technology: Dotnet, MS Access, SQL, Asp.net, C#, PL/SQL, Mvc, Wcf, Ajax, Jquery, Json, xml, Telerik, WindowServices, WebApi, Duration: Oct 2017 toJan 2018  Responsibilities:  • Involved in preparation of Development.  • Automated Tools constructed and reuse process  • Financial Billing Tools Construct(Insurance Accounting)    Create, deploy and secure Insurance Domain, enhancement of Project  Insurance Accounting and Claim information Maintain, Insurance Document Management    Company: CPS(Cognitive Platform Soln)  Post: Senior Software Engineer ( Software Developer and Debugging)  Project Details  Project Title: EHRM(Electronic Hospital Recourse Management)    Technology: Dotnet, MS Access, SQL, Asp.net, C#, PL/SQL, Mvc, Wcf, Ajax, Jquery, Json, xml  Duration: May 2017 toOct2017    Responsibilities:  • Involved in preparation of Development.  • Automated Tools constructed and reuse process  • Financial Billing Tools Construct(Financial Accounting)    Create, deploy and secure personalized Patient Information Maintain application on Cloud with unlimited storage and scale on highly optimized infrastructure.  Lab Management, Pharmacy Billing System, IPD Management    Company: True Tech Solution Senior Software Engineer ( Software Developer and Debugging) Redington November 2016 to 2017 Project Details  Project Title: Redington Cloud, Redington gulf  Technology: Dotnet, MS Access, SQL, Asp.net, C#, PL/SQL, Mvc, Wcf, Ajax, Jquery, Json, xml  Duration: Nov 2016 toMay 2017    Responsibilities:  • Involved in preparation of Development.  • Automated Tools constructed and reuse process  • Excel, Csv File automated Read and Write  • Financial Billing Tools Construct(Financial Accounting)    Create, deploy and secure personalized ecommerce application on Cloud with unlimited storage and scale on highly optimized infrastructure.Manage leads and complete sales activities. See detailed contact records, and view communication history in one convenient place, Payment Gateway: Payzapp, CyberSource, PayPal.    Amazon Web Services(AWS), Microsoft Azure Services(MAS) Cloud Maintains Software Developer Agile Visual Systems March 2014 to March 2015 Project Details  Project Title: Dicom  Platform: Windows 2000 Server  Technology: Dotnet, MS Access, Ms SQL, Asp.net, C#, PL/SQL  Tools used:Trace Tools, Unit Test  Responsibilities  • Involved in preparation of Development.  • Optimization Coding and increase running speed of project.  • Sdk Tools Connect for projects (automatic Reader Setting) (R & D Camera).  • Tested Process in Staging process.    Technology: VB.Net, MS Access, and SQL(Windows Application), pl/Sql, WCF    DICOM is used worldwide to store, exchange, and transmit medical images. DICOM has been central to the development of modern radiological imaging: DICOM incorporates standards for imaging modalities such as radiography, ultrasonography, computed tomography (CT), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), and radiation therapy. DICOM includes protocols for image exchange (e.g., via portable media such as DVDs), image compression, 3-D visualization, image presentation, and results reporting    Company:  Technology  (Duration: 2 years Nov 2011 to Oct 2013)  • Firm of Web Based software development taking projects of USA clients.    Responsibilities  • Developmentof web based application based on client's designs & requirements.  • GUI Application takes into consideration its functional requirements.  • Assigning / Managing / Deciding Priority of Development tasks.  • Software firm of Web Based software development.  • Leading Software Firm in Insurance Software, mainly broker software.  • Having customers in Ireland for Insurance software.  • Made software with name ECR-Magic, Broker-Magic.  Post: Software Developer  Project Details:  Project Title: HRMS  Platform: Windows 7 Professional.  Technology: Dotnet, MS Access, MS SQL, Asp.net, PL/SQL, C#    Leave System (HRMS) maintains the leave details of employees. Employees record their attendance in the system at the beginning and end of each working day. The system calculates the number of working days and the number of absent days and provides inputs to the payroll department. Leave applications are reconciled with the attendance records and the exceptions are highlighted. System caters to multiple types of leave (casual, privilege, sick etc.) and provides workflow for approval of leave applications. Employees can check their own leave and attendance records online.    Project Details:  Project Title: CMS(Collage Management Systems)  Platform: Windows 7 Professional.  Technology: Dotnet, SQL, Asp.net, C#, PL/SQL    Post: Software Developer  The project is "COLLEGE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM FOR COLLEGE" (CMS). CMS is defined as an application based on Intranet that aims to all the levels of management providing information within an organization. This system can be used as a information management system for the college. Education M.C.A ANNA University 2011 Skills Javascript, MYSQL, Git