Software Java Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> Java <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Java Developer - Core E-business Solutions Harrison, NJ • Experienced Computer Science graduate with 1.5 years of experience as a Software Java developer.  •Good knowledge of Data Structure & Algorithm, Object-oriented programming and advanced SQL queries.  •Possess strong Analytical mindset, Time management & Communication skills. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Software Java Developer Core E-business Solutions - Fairfield, NJ October 2018 to Present • Development of the Billing feature in existing Core Java application for Warehousing operations.  • Implementation of Automatic & Manual Charge generation, Invoice creation and Value Added services functionalities for the client.  • Collected, analysed & documented Billing schema and developed SQL server queries.  • Solving customer tickets related to billing system using database queries.  • Working on the Pick-plan project to dynamically select orders and process them as a plan in Core Java application.  Environment: JAVA, Oracle DB, Eclipse, Liferay, Bitbucket, Confluence, JIRA Software Developer Pullup Technologies Inc - Newark, NJ February 2018 to September 2018 Software Developer (Android Application)  • Development of Android application, pullup, an Uber for parking.  • Using RESTful services, sent HTTP requests to the Server, retrieved the JSON format data, and parsed it.  • Developed UI to display distance & ETA using Google API.  • Developed Payment integration using Stripe API, Rating System & Support for the app.  • Implemented Client-side validation for the app.  Environment: JAVA, XML, Android SDK, Android Studio, GitHub, Gitbash, JIRA, JUnit    COURSEWORK:  Capstone Project (Android App Development) Data Structures & Algorithm Database Management System Advanced Database Management System Java Programming Software Project Management APRIORI Algorithm Implementation (JAVA) August 2017 to December 2017 • Implemented the APRIORI Algorithm for the transactions item -sets.  • Utilized Static and Dynamic Data Structures to calculate Support and confidence required for algorithm implementation. Admin and User Online Membership System January 2017 to May 2017 Java, SQL, JDBC, Swing) Jan 2017-May 2017  • Developed a JAVA application for online membership system using Swings API, which allows two levels of access, Admin and User.  • Implemented Server - Client interface using socket programming, developed backend using RDBMS, established connectivity using JDBC and executed it on AFS. Kaggle Competition-Two Sigma Connect January 2017 to May 2017 • Developed a model to predict the popularity of apartment on Rental listings using R from a given dataset.  • Performed analysis on interest levels of training dataset to find probability of each house by regression using various packages in R and the predictions of this model were stored in the form of an excel file. Education Master of Computer Science in Computer Science New Jersey Institute of Technology - Newark, NJ May 2018 Bachelor of Engineering in Computer Science in Computer Science University of Mumbai - Mumbai, Maharashtra June 2015 Skills Eclipse, Java, Spring, jquery, Microsoft sql server, Sql server, Mysql, Oracle, Pl/sql, Sql, Visual studio, Android studio, C++, Django, Front-end, Html, Javascript, Bootstrap, Typescript, Json, Android, CSS, Git Additional Information SKILLS:  Language: Java, PL/SQL, R, SQL, C++, C, Python, JSON  Front-end Technologies: JavaScript, XML, HTML, CSS, Swing, Bootstrap, JQuery, TypeScript  Frameworks: Android SDK, Spring MVC, Django, Angular5, REST, JUnit  Operating System: Microsoft Windows, Linux, Mac OS    Databases: MySQL Server, SQL Server, Oracle DB  Software: Android Studio, Eclipse, R Studio, JIRA, Zendesk, WebStorm, Visual Studio, Weka, Brackets, Liferay  RDBMS: Microsoft SQL Server Management, MySQL, Oracle DB, Aqua Data Studio  Version Control: GitHub, Bitbucket