Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer - General Atomics Aeronautical Systems, Inc San Diego, CA Work Experience Software Developer General Atomics Aeronautical Systems, Inc July 2017 to Present Aided in moving a software configuration item through the entire software development life cycle, from requirements, to design, to integration, and then to verification - taking the lead on testing - while  ensuring adherence to planning documentation and airworthiness requirements.  ? Participated in Stage of Involvement audits, while maintaining communication between the team and Management, to ensure certification objectives for various software configuration items were being met  according to schedule and to address potential shortcomings.  ? Developed planning documents to guide our team towards the end goal of delivering a type-certifiable  Unmanned Air Vehicle System, leveraging lessons learned from previous certification efforts. Software Test Analyst Volt Workforce Solutions January 2017 to July 2017 Contracted into the Software Verification Team of a major aerospace company in the defense industry.  ? Developed software verification processes and documentation for an Unmanned Air Vehicle system, designed to comply with RTCA/DO178C avionics software certification standards.  ? Worked with teams of developers to create detailed test plans that would provide adequate high-level  requirements coverage and low-level code coverage for various software configuration items. Telecommunications Technician TC Brokers, Inc June 2016 to January 2017 Provided installation and maintenance services for internet and telephone systems. Education Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering in Electrical Engineering Loyola Marymount University 2016 Skills LABVIEW, ASSEMBLY, EMBEDDED SYSTEMS, PCB DESIGN, XILINX, MATLAB, FPGA, C/C++, C++, CODEWARRIOR, OBJECT ORIENTED PROGRAMMING, PYTHON, SVN, ECLIPSE, JAVA, SQL, PCB Assessments Data Analysis — Expert August 2019 Measures a candidate's skill in interpreting and producing graphs, identifying trends, and drawing justifiable conclusions from data. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/i9geyunubedyhoco Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Technical Skills    Computer: Object Oriented Programming/Design, MATLAB, Assembly, Python, Java, C/C++, SQL,  CodeWarrior, Xilinx, Eclipse, DOORS, MPLAB, LabView, VectorCAST, SCADE, SVN  Equipment: PCB Design and Debugging, Embedded Systems, Microchip dsPIC, MPLAB RealICE,  FPGA Design/Implementation, Electronic Lab Equipment