Software Engineer <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer ? I have 4+ Years of IT experience in development and implementation of Cognos Business Intelligence applications.  ? Having good experience in understanding the Business applications and Business data flow with good client exposure.  ? Extensive Knowledge on Data Warehousing Concepts and Database concepts.  ? Strong experience in creating drill through, Cascading, Filters, master detail, burst reports, Scheduling and summary reports using Report Studio.  ? Good experience in creating render variable, Conditional block, text source, string and Boolean variables.  ? Working on various types of prompts like Value prompt, select and search prompt, date prompts etc.  ? Strong experience in creating Dashboard reports which help in keeping track of core operational process, Operational efficiency, Demand Management.  ? Experienced in creating relational model and DMR model in FM.  ? Experienced in designing Business Models and Packages to meet complex reporting requirements using Framework manager and Power play cubes in Transformer.  ? Having good knowledge on Security implementation on FM and power play cube.  ? Hands on experience in Migrating and Deployed the Cognos BI Reports from DEV environment to UAT environment and production servers.  ? Good Knowledge in Active Reports and Cognos BI Admin.  ? Experience in working with multiple Relational Databases including Oracle 10g, SQL Server 2008.  ? Expertise in installing & configure different versions of Cognos BI 10.2/11.x suite on Windows operating system. Work Experience Software Engineer August 2017 to Present Cognos Developer Somerfield Retail Food Store - UK August 2017 to Present Technologies: Cognos 11.2BI, SQL Server and Windows server 2012.  Project Description:  Somerfield Retail Food Stores, which is one of the organization that sells various number of products. Somerfield have various stores, which maintains a Database has lots of historical data. This project was to generate reports based on Sales Data Warehouse using Cognos 10X.  The system has a database which stores information about sales, profits and contacts of customers. The Aim is to provide a Decision Support System, which helps Top Management to make decision about their sales, purchases and channels. To identify the key factors like the total sales revenue in week wise, month wise, quarter wise and year wise based on the region, sales channels and sales amount various reports were created based on Cognos 10X.  Roles and Responsibilities:  ? Extensively worked on understanding the business requirements and developed the Dashboards and reports.  ? Experience in working with off-shore team, onsite support teams and Knowledge Transfer.  ? Create ROLAP/DMR (Dimensionally Modeled Relational) models using Framework Manager  ? Strong experience in creating drill through, Cascading, Filters, master detail, burst reports, Scheduling and summary reports using Report Studio.  ? Good experience in creating render variable, Conditional black, text source, string and Boolean variables.  ? Working on various types of prompts like Value prompt, select and search prompt, date prompts etc.  ? Designed and Implemented metadata models in Framework Manager and Power play cubes in Transformer.  ? Generated IQD's for cube models in Framework Manager.  ? Created cube models using Power Play Transformer.  ? Authored various types of reports in Report Studio using dimensional (Cube & DMR) and Relational data sources.  ? Successfully designed and implemented security on different levels including object and row level security.  ? Developed dimensional reports using multidimensional data sources (Cubes and DMR) in Report Studio.  ? Created reports from DMR models using Dimensional Functions.  ? Successfully designed and implemented security on different levels including object and row level security.  ? Strong troubleshooting and production Support skills and coordination/ interaction abilities with end users.  ? Provided production support for existing Reports and Cubes. Users requested certain minor changes to formatting and calculations in reports. Value Labs - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2015 to July 2017 Cognos Developer Kraft Food North America, Inc June 2015 to July 2017 Role: Cognos Developer  Project Description:  Kraft Food North America, Inc. is one of the largest branded foods and Beverage Company in North America, running its business in more than 150 countries mainly in USA and Canada, headquartered in Illinois (US). Kraft Foods markets the world's favorite food and beverage brands in product sectors: snacks, beverages, cheese and dairy, grocery and convenient meals.  The company requires different kind of analysis over the sales of their product over different locations and time zones. The project developed enables the end user to analyze and estimate the profits & losses, product inventory's snapshots etc. and also tracks the customer details. The project includes reports that were generated for decision support to various department of the company, i.e., Sales Department.  Roles and Responsibilities:  ? Created various types of reports like List reports, Cross tab reports, Chart reports and Map reports with features like conditional formatting, Page break, Master Detail, Drill through, drill up and drill down and Active Reports using in the Report Studio.  ? Creating Cascading Prompts, Calculations, Filters, Grouping, Sorting, Selection and Conditional Blocks.  ? Create Test Cases as per the user story and documented for report validation & Testing after interacting with the end users.  ? Maintained Scheduled Daily, Weekly, monthly reports.  ? Customized Cognos connection Portal based on User Specification.  ? Working on various types of prompts like Value prompt, Select and Search prompt, date prompts etc. Education B.Com in Computers Kakatiya University Skills Windows xp Additional Information BI Reporting Tools: Cognos 11.x &10.x (Framework Manager, Report Studio, Query Studio, Analysis Studio, Cognos connection)  Databases: SQL Server 2008/2010, Oracle 10g.    Operating Systems: Windows 2012R2 server, Windows XP.