Business Analyst/ Developer Business Analyst/<span class="hl">Developer</span> Business Analyst/ Developer Miamisburg, OH Detail-oriented Business Analyst with success in project management, leadership, and strategic planning. Adept in capturing business requirements, creating project documentation and working in cross-function teams. Strong motivational skills and accomplished in guiding teams towards achievement of business, project and schedule goals. Work Experience Business Analyst/ Developer Great Lakes Integrated - Avon Lake, OH October 2015 to October 2016 • Served as the primary point of contact between the Development Services team and the Account Managers and Project Manager.  • Acknowledged customer issues and resolved their problems quickly and efficiently.  • Served a key role in developing supportable, profitable solutions for GLI by having a complete understanding of GLI's software capabilities  • Interpreted and developed client specifications and expectations into clear documents  • Managed the development team to ensure that all product installation, web site configuration and database setup is complete.  • Was the project leader for the technical implementation of any feature enhancements or integrations required for the client's project.  • Worked with colleagues to develop project time lines and schedule based on priorities and resources.  • Provided updates and status on project tasks, to-do list items and milestones at weekly status meetings.  • Conducted a daily development status meeting with the Developers  • Evaluated the customers' needs and provided service options to meet their requirements.  Technologies: ASP.NET, MS-SQL SERVER, C#, HTML, JAVASCRIPT Software Developer National Automotive Experts - Strongsville, OH January 2015 to October 2015 • Designed, developed, managed, and maintained site content.  • Demonstrated solutions by creating documentation, flowcharts, layouts, diagrams, charts, code comments and clear code.  • Actively participated in product design reviews by providing creative and practical ideas and solutions in a teamwork environment.  • Participated in technical design, development and implementation of web-site features and desktop applications.  • Worked on multiple projects with different deadlines.  • Reviewed and evaluated existing systems for possible enhancement or upgrade and routinely searched for innovative ways to improve existing systems or procedures.  • Designed, managed, and updated web applications for various departments in the organization.  Technologies: ASP.NET, MS-SQL SERVER, C#, HTML, JAVASCRIPT Business Analyst National Automotive Experts - Strongsville, OH April 2013 to December 2014 • Wrote comprehensive process models, for all internal and external users, of NAE's proprietary software.  • Monitored and updated the status of assigned support tickets.  • Ran reports and executed ad-hoc data requests as directed by end users and the software team.  • Assisted in the resolution of software bugs by testing developed systems and documenting results/required development team actions.  • Developed knowledge of NAE's unique business rules as they relate to its custom software systems.  • Developed familiarity with NAE's software platform and grew software development skills  • Completed assigned programming tasks, under direction of the software team.  • Gathered requirements through interviews, document analysis, use cases, business process descriptions and workflow analysis.  Technologies: ASP.NET, MS-SQL SERVER, C#, HTML, JAVASCRIPT Education Bachelor of Science in Electronics Engineering Technology Cleveland State University - Cleveland, OH December 2010 Skills DATABASE, DATABASE DESIGN, DOCUMENTING, SYSTEM TESTING Assessments Problem Solving — Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to analyze relevant information when solving problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/hw02jjx3f4nutvwp Critical Thinking — Highly Proficient August 2019 Using logic to solve problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/x6wtyfwuwmmeinid Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.