Software Developer/Consultant <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span>/Consultant Software Developer/Consultant - Excella Arlington, VA An accomplished hands-on developer with proven ability to deliver efficient and effective software solutions.  Able to quickly pick up new technologies and frameworks in order to contribute to a new team or project. Seeks  challenging and difficult tasks and enjoys spending time learning and developing deeper understanding of  technology and software. Brings a positive and supportive attitude to any project or team and is fiercely  committed to making it a success. Work Experience Software Developer/Consultant Excella January 2017 to Present The myUSCIS application is a Ruby on Rails web application with a React front end that modernizes the U.S.  immigration process. The application allows potential immigrant applicants and representatives to file  immigration paperwork online, create cases, and then manage their account which allows them to track the case  status and receive updates as it goes through the adjudication process. It serves as the front end for the "e- processing" initiative which modernizes all USCIS immigration services.    Responsibilities:  • Full-stack Ruby on Rails and React developer  • Developed new case tracking application with a React front end and Rails back end. Allows applicants  to view case status, view attached documents uploaded with their case, and upload additional documents to respond to requests for more information when necessary  • Assisted with designing and implementing a microservice architecture across the myUSCIS backend  • Developed a new microservice enterprise facing profile service that managed applicant profile  information from several external sources, and included the need to securely store data internally  • Managed integration with multiple external government systems as Kafka was implemented across the enterprise wide USCIS online system during the "e-processing" initiative  • Used React with a Rails backend to lead the development of a new representative account application  • Monitor production EC2 instances and assist with troubleshooting and remediating production outages  • Participate and facilitate scrum ceremonies including release planning, sprint planning, sprint demos, grooming and daily stand-ups  • Work closely with government product owners to design and deliver solutions which focus on user  experience, accessibility, and data integrity  • Mentor new developers to onboard them and develop their programming and business skills  • Participated in government organized tech demo, in order to the win the myUSCIS contract Software Developer ABET Accreditation Software January 2016 to Present Began project as undergraduate I.S.E. researcher to lead in the development of a stand-alone, data driven web  application, programmed originally in PHP, JavaScript, and HTML, with a MySQL database backend.  Currently in testing phase with VT professors, with further development in progress. Product completion and market launch targeted for spring of 2019. Industrial Engineering Intern Volvo Trucks May 2016 to January 2017 Worked in support of the I.E. in the paint department at Volvo Trucks manufacturing plant in Dublin, Va.  Developed an automated color quality measurement system that is currently in the implementation process by Quality for use by floor inspectors. One of two interns out of 20 invited to continue internship into the fall.    2250 Clarendon Blvd. ¨ Arlington, Va. 22201 ¨ (434)546-1789 ¨ nw95@vt.edu Industrial Engineering Intern Standard Motor Products August 2015 to December 2015 Worked in the Disputanta, Va., distribution center supporting lean manufacturing initiatives. Supervised a team of two employees for the restructuring of the Q.A. inspection processes and samples inventory. Received  practical training in lean techniques implementation and 5S standards. Engineering Intern AREVA May 2015 to August 2015 Completed a scanner automation project consisting of designing, programming, and building an automated  microfiche scanner. Effectively cut project times by turning a one hour long manual scanning job into a 20-30  minute automated process. Education Bachelor of Science in Industrial and Systems Engineering in Industrial and Systems Engineering Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University August 2013 to May 2018 Skills Git, Html, Javascript, Php, Laravel, Python, Ruby, Rails, Ruby on rails, Visual basic, Kafka, Splunk, Database, Mysql, Postgresql, Java, Spring, jquery, Ajax, Css Certifications/Licenses Certified ScrumMaster (CSM) Certified Scrum Master Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Languages: Ruby, PHP, Python, Java, Visual Basic, MatLab  Web Technologies: React, HTML/CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX  Frameworks: Ruby on Rails, NodeJS, Laravel PHP, Spring  Database: MySQL, PostgreSQL  Other: Git, AWS, Agile, Scrum, JIRA, Splunk, Kafka, CSM