Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer Binghamton, NY Current graduate student with extensive technical experience in Computer Science field seeking internships/co-op opportunities to contribute towards organizational goals while sticking to vision, mission and values by using knowledge and skills with constant learning for mutual growth. Proficient in MATLAB, C, Python programming, innovative, ability to handle multiple tasks, quick learner and reliable problem solver. Rich background ensures strong abilities serving as a collaborative team player with excellent communication skills. With experience in addressing diverse stakeholder needs, confident to design the best possible solutions that would cater to the varied needs of our customers/clients. Work Experience Software Developer Vishwakarma Institute of Information Technology - Pune, Maharashtra July 2015 to July 2018 Role: Following are my contribution in the research project entitled- "Design of an Adaptive, Error Resilient and Robust Access Control System Using Multimodal Hand Based Biometric Modalities for Multi Layered High Security Applications", Funded by Rajiv Gandhi Science and Technology Commission Government of Maharashtra, India:  • Designed a DAS (data acquisition system) i.e. the hardware for collecting the images of palm vein, palm print and hand geometry.  • Integrated two web cameras, IR led, led lights and power supply which consumes less time to capture images.  • Captured and stored images in different directions of right hand of large number of people in a developed database using that hardware.  • Processed collected data using image processing algorithms like Principal Component Analysis algorithms for the extraction of features form images.  • Developed centroid algorithm to extract rate of interest.  • Used Python libraries such as OpenCV, SciPy, NumPy and raspberry pi B+ model with LCD for testing.  • Matched data using SVM (support vector machines) model and the results were displayed successfully in LCD in a real time.  • Developed algorithms for transforming data from computer to DSP Processor and storing the data in DSP Processor.  • Designed an appropriate software and hardware architecture for implementing decision strategy as a standalone device for security purpose. Education Master of science in Computer Science Binghamton University, State University of New York May 2020 Bachelor of Engineering in Electronics and Telecommunication in Electronics and Telecommunication University of Pune - Pune, Maharashtra June 2015 Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/riddhi-zaveri-702b1612a