Software Development Manager <span class="hl">Software</span> Development Manager Software Development Manager Fishers, IN ? Managing, implementing and delivering medium to large software projects.  ? Senior Application/API (PHP) Developer expertise in accomplishing Web Applications by establishing project scope, designing and delivering solutions, leading team members.  ? Senior Web Developer with more then 10 years of experience in developing website solutions.  ? Coding: Professional experience of coding tools and technologies including Linux, Doctrine, Zend Framework, Spring Framework, Google App Engine, Migration scripts, Mustache, JS, jQuery, json, RESTful, cURL, SOAP UI Tool, PHP, MySQL, HTML, CSS    ? CMS and Frameworks: Experience using MVC frameworks (ZEND, Laravel and CakePHP, SPRING), CMS platforms (Wordpress) LMS platforms (MOODLE).  ? Accessibility: Knowledge of Web standards, allowing for the creation of sites that work across multiple browsers and devices, while ensuring they comply with accessibility legislation.    ? Version Control: Experience using Git, SVN, Mercurial, allowing for the tracking of changes throughout a project's history. Work Experience Software Development Manager Nymgo S.A September 2018 to June 2019 • Plans, assigns and directs the development team involved in the design, and development.  • Performs the tasks of the developers/Senior Developers as needed.  • Holds "status meetings and stand up meetings" to facilitate communication between developers.  • Writes detailed program specifications for newly developed applications.  • Develops the development project plan with responsibilities and time frame.  • Supports coding and database modifications during the application implementation project.  • Reviews the Developers code, approves them and send them for Quality Control  • Provides "Post Implementation" support as necessary.  • Identifies and troubleshoots potential performance issues.  • Ensures adequate technical support is available.  • Provides support and guidance to team members, develops and motivates their performance and provides training as necessary to improve productivity and quality of work.  • Performs other duties in line with scope of work and as assigned by the direct manager Senior Software Developer Nymgo S.A April 2015 to September 2018 April 2015 - September 2018  * PHP Zend Framework * Doctrine ORM *Php *Java *linux *SVN *Spring Framework *GAE *Jquery  Responsibilities: Senior Software Developer    • Function of a Senior PHP Developer in the Development Team  • Mission: Develop new features and maintain Nymgo's Website and API  • Environment: PHP Zend Framework, Doctrine ORM with MySQL Server, JAVA Spring Framework  • Fix assigned tickets and assist fellow developers whenever needed.  • Work closely with QAs to fix tickets.  • Work/communicate with teams from Lebanon and abroad.  • Discuss & brainstorm solutions with the development team on several aspects during the development process.  • Participated in the release of Nymgo Website 2.0 a Responsive website based on HTML5 with a redesigned look and feel, redesigned forms structure, data grids and unified ajax requests  • Implemented the cron module which is responsible of keeping track of running crons, time  taken and to notify developers upon errors.  • Upgraded Doctrine to the latest versions while updating all Doctrine entities to respect  the new rules.  • Implement the migration script module based on doctrine migration  • Implement fully compliant Restful API Founder Beirut May 2006 to July 2015 *Project management *Cakephp *Laravel *Php *MySQL *Apache *Git *Html *CSS *Jquery*SEM  Responsibilities: Web Project Manager - Senior Web Developer  • More than 10 Clients in Saudi Arabia, Dubai, and Lebanon  • Manage project development from initiation to closure.  • Work with designers, developers and media producers.  • Build and maintain new websites informative and interactive using PHP, HTML, CSS, Javascript, Jquery, MySQL, Linux and Apache.  • Implement Internet Marketing Plans using SEM(Search Engine Marketing), SEO(Search Engine Optimization), SMM(Social Media Marketing) and CRO(Conversion Rate Optimization)  • Develop CMS (control management system) using the Cakephp web application framework and LARAVEL  • Develop Front-end and Back-end.  • Support Costumers and provide website maintenance. Moodle Developer and Expert BOUNIAN Project (ABTS) - LB March 2010 to March 2015 • Manage the technical part of a Learning Management System developed with Moodle.  • Work with Blueprint writers and Media producers.  • Install different instances of Moodle on different locations and systems (Network, Web Servers).  • Design and develop Moodle themes using PHP, CSS, and HTML.  • Design and develop Moodle courses using the most relevant Moodle activities and resources.  • Advertize using SMM (Social Media Marketing)  • Create different system users and define their roles.  • Migrate courses between different Moodle versions and environments.  • Troubleshoot technical issues and identify modifications needed in existing applications to meet requirements. Technical support Communication Center for Campus Crusade for Christ - LB May 2006 to March 2010 *Windows *Networking *SMM *SEO  Responsibilities: Web Developer - IT support  • Build and maintain new websites, informative and interactive.  • Design, develop and integrate Web applications using the Web Languages: HTML, JavaScript, CSS, the Database Languages: SQL, MySQL and the Server Side Languages: PHP, CakePhp.  • Design and maintain weekly newsletter.  • Advertize using SMM (Social Media Marketing) and SEO (Search Engine Optimization)  • Support in ensuring that hardware and software are maintained in optimum operating condition to allow maximum utilization.  • Configure network devices including servers, hubs, switches, modems, printers, scanners, etc.  • Act as a technical in resolving problems with end user computing and applications. This support includes printing problems, network access problems, Windows, and Office, virus problems, internet connectivity, troubleshooting the partnership software, etc.  • Perform weekly quality checks of the backed-up information and the used medium in performing these backups.  • Administer the acquisition and installation of new hardware and software at the field level. Computer Center Instructor HOH - LB October 2003 to July 2008 • Instructor of Microsoft Office including: Word, Excel, PowerPoint.  • Provide instruction to students in basic computer skills.  • Design and develop basic computer skills curriculum that include the creation of course outlines, lesson plans, and examinations.  • Review and monitor the effectiveness of the lessons. Education Master's in MBA (Project Management) Anderson University - Anderson, IN August 2019 to Present BS in Computer and Communications Engineering American University of Science and Technology AUST - Lebanon 2002 to 2006 Skills MVC, Javascript, Software Development, Javascript, Software Development, PHP (10+ years), Linux (5 years), Git (5 years), SVN (3 years), JIRA (5 years), HTML (9 years), CSS3 (5 years), Wordpress (2 years)