Sr. Java Developer Sr. Java <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Developer - Cisco Systems, Inc New York, NY, NY • 8+ Years of technical expertise in product development life cycle that include analysis, design and development of client server, highly scalable reliable enterprise web applications and extensively delivered in Agile (Scrum) methodology.  • Developed core modules in large cross-platform applications using OOAD (Object Oriented Analysis and Design), JAVA, J2EE, JSP, Servlets, JDBC, HTML, CSS, JavaScript and HTML&CSS frameworks like AngularJS, bootstrap, XML, JMS, RMI, JUnit, Log4J, and SQL.  • Extensively worked on developing java server side web applications using various open source web frameworks include spring, Struts and ORM framework like Hibernate.  • Strong experience in Service Oriented Architecture (SOA), Web-oriented Architecture (WOA) and publishing web services using REST and SOAP.  • Experience Expert in developing RESTful Web Services and Web Service Clients using Spring MVC, Jersey, Restlet frameworks and Google Web Toolkit (GWT)  • Experienced in securing server side web applications with Spring Security, Spring LDAP Frameworks.  • Knowledge in implementing Java and J2EE design patterns.  • Strong experience on various Relational Databases like Oracle, MySQL, PostgreSQL and SQL Server.  • Experience in Developing Unit test Cases and Integration test suites using JUnit, TestNG and build tools like Jenkins, Bamboo for continuous Integration and Artifactory for repository.  • Experience in writing Gradle and Maven build scripts for J2EE Application deployments and Proficient in Software Configuration Management like GIT, SVN and CVS.  • Expertise on J2EE Application/Web Servers like IBM Web Sphere, Web Logic, JBoss and Apache Tomcat.  • Developed Java applications in various IDE's like Eclipse, STS, BPM and IntelliJ and experience with working on Linux /Unix, Mac OSX and Windows.  • Having good knowledge in Apache Spark RDDs and Scala Programming.  • Ability to handle multiple tasks, Initiative and Adaptable. Self-motivated, organized team player with strong problem solving and analytical skills and total commitment to the organization goals. Work Experience Sr. Java Developer Cisco Systems, Inc - Sunnyvale, CA October 2017 to Present Description:  ICC Portal is a Community management and analytics application, which enhances and automates key aspects of managing and engaging with ICC. ICC Portal enables Community leaders to easily manage community members, view community events, and keep track of membership levels. The ICC Portal makes membership management efficient for all communities.    Responsibilities:  • Followed Agile Methodology and Iterative Development throughout the project.  • Analyzed business requirements and prepared required technical design documents.  • Developed a backend web component using Java, J2EE Spring Boot, WOA architecture.  • Developed UI that abstracts implementation of crosscutting concerns like Authentication, Authorization, and Error Handling.  • Developed highcharts to represent data in charts format, Monitoring and session timeout using Spring Security and Spring LDAP framework.  • Implemented Jersey Rest API to be consumed by various modules like UI, Reporting.  • Designed and developed the data access layer using Hibernate ORM framework to map the domain objects to Oracle Database.  • Used log4j for logging and monitored the error logs.  • Used Maven to build the application and deploy the application on Apache Tomcat and Jboss Server.    Environment: JAVA, OOPs Concepts, J2EE, Spring Boot, Spring Security LDAP, Hibernate, AngularJS, JSON, Tomcat, Jboss Oracle, Maven, Log4j, GIT Hub, Eclipse, Jenkins, Rally. Enabled Partner Portal Level (3) Communications - Broomfield, CO January 2016 to June 2017 Sr. Java Developer    Description: Level (3) Enabled Partner Portal is an application available to partners, resellers with the ability to Quote and Order Level 3 services on behalf of themselves or their direct sales customers. We have the model that represents the relationships between products, and changes to those products are tracked and propagated through a unified event based framework which enables developers, publishers, operations and support teams a single representation of applications both visually and through a consolidated API.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in complete SDLC Life Cycle  • Analyzed business requirements and prepared required technical design documents.  • Developed a backend web component using Java, J2EE Spring MVC architecture.  • Developed webkit that abstracts implementation of crosscutting concerns like Authentication, Authorization, and Error Handling. Monitoring and session timeout using Spring, Spring Security and Spring LDAP framework.  • Implemented Rest API to be consumed by various modules like UI, Reporting.  • Designed and developed the data access layer using Hibernate ORM framework to map the domain objects to Oracle Database.  • Implemented messaging queue interface for Geneva and Solace.  • Involved in writing the end-to-end tests using JUnit and creating the automation test plans on Jenkins.  • Used log4j for logging and monitored the error logs.  • Used Maven to build the application and deploy the application on Apache Tomcat Server.  • Lead a team of consultants with appropriate technical guidance and ensured the successive implementation of project.    Environment: JAVA, J2EE, Spring, Spring Security w/LDAP, Spring Data, Hibernate, JQuery, JavaScript, JSON, Tomcat, Oracle, Cassandra, Titan Graph DB, Maven, Log4j, GIT Hub, IntelliJ, Jenkins. Customer Device Management Liberty Global UK January 2014 to December 2015 Sr. Java Developer    Description: LGI Customer Service Representatives (CSR) lacks the ability to remotely troubleshoot and diagnose the majority of Customer Premises Equipment (CPE) . CDM (Customer Device Management) provides LGI CSRs with a remote troubleshooting and diagnostics capability that built on an open framework that can scale to accommodate other products, services and CPEs. More specifically, the CSRs should be able to obtain a view on customer devices status remotely without customer interaction, remotely alter some parameters if this functionality is supported by current devices software.    Responsibilities:  • Followed Agile Methodology and Iterative Development throughout the project.  • Analyzed business requirements and prepared required technical design documents.  • Expertise in the jenkins plugin management areas and implemented several CI/CD plugin like AWS ec2, build pipeline, Docker, git, unit and pipeline plugins.  • Worked on building UI Widgets using GWT framework (Google Web Toolkit)  • Developed OSGI based bundles for deployment under Apache Service Mix.  • Developed Restful web services using Apache-CXF which would be available for other local osgi bundles.  • Consumed SOAP Web services and Implemented SNMP API to fetch device status information from third party systems and update the set top up box properties on fly  • Developed a functionality to read xml and text files in a continuous interval using Apache Camel.  • Worked on deploying all the bundles in Apache Service Mix using Apache Karaf.  • Used Spring IOC for dependency injection and various J2EE design patterns.  • Build and deploy the application using Maven and Jenkins Continuous integration tool.  • Used Artifactory as the jar repository which stores all the internal and third party artifacts.  • JIRA Tool is used to continue tracking of tasks and Unit tested the code using JUnit and Mokito.    Environment: JAVA, Spring MVC, GWT, REST, SOAP Web services, JSON, Log4j, Internationalization, Apache Maven, Apache Camel, Service Mix, Jenkins, Artifactory, JIRA, JUNIT GitHub. Java Developer Liberty Global UK June 2012 to December 2013 Description: LGI Optimus Prime is a centralized repository for assets (CPE), mobile equipment and network inventory to enable easy tracking, handling and accounting of equipment. The asset tracker is a web application of central repository containing details of all CPE's of all countries and consist of a database with a web based GUI and oracle Fusion as middleware to process date to reporting tool. Automatic DB scheduler jobs are created to process the data in regular intervals. Auto sending Mails are generated in case of job failures and success.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in complete SDLC Life Cycle  • Analyzed business requirements and prepared required technical design documents  • Performed cluster set-up in Web Logic for load balancing.  • Implemented Asynchronous means of retrieval of data using AJAX and JSON, AngularJS.  • Developed the MVC based user interface involving Spring MVC and Used Spring-IOC for bean management.  • JMS used to send and retrieve the data in the form of Messages and process Messages.  • Developed the Presentation layer using the MVC paradigm and Exception Handling with Spring MVC features.  • Integrated Hibernate with Spring ORM for persistence DAO objects.  • Developed Unit Test Cases with JUnit and Mockito.  • Used log4j for Error and Exception Handling. Used Assertions during development phase to detect errors and malfunctions.  • SVN for source control repository and Code Reviews are done for better code quality.  • Used SQL Developer for database connections to verify SQL queries.  • Co-ordinated with the QA team and users in system integration testing.  • Provided verbal and written status reports during all phases of development, testing, and implementation.    Environment: JAVA 6.0, J2EE, Web Logic, Log4j, AJAX, JSON, Spring MVC 3.0, Spring Security, SQL, Hibernate, CVS, Maven, Eclipse, Linux. Software Analyst Accenture services - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2010 to May 2012 Description: TCARE provides a rich, user friendly, easy to navigate interface, giving an enriched experience to the Customer Service Representatives who manage the customers. It deals with the maintenance and management of customers And /or their accounts in more simplified form benefiting both the customer and the service provider. It's open Architecture and flexible modular design enables easy integration and easy configuration of complex and dynamic Business models.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in complete SDLC Life Cycle.  • Responsible for leading all phases of J2EE web product development and web product quality.  • Developed error messages tool and managing the error messages.  • Developed the MVC based user interface involving Spring MVC, Tiles, JSP.  • Developed and managed the spring configurations.  • Developed the customized Generic Controller to handle the client requests.  • Developed Façade pattern interact with service layer and DAO layer.  • Supporting the Exception Handling with Spring MVC features.  • Developed the web services and client and developed test cases using JUnit.  • Worked in agile methodology and applied the bug fixes for all high, medium and low.  • Co- ordinate with release management team testing team and SCM team during the release time.    Environment: JAVA 6.0, J2EE (JSP, Servlets), Spring 2.x /3.x, Web services, Tiles, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, JSON, JUnit, ANT, SVN, Tomcat, Eclipse, Windows7, Solaris Software Trainee Accenture services - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2009 to May 2010 Description: Registration and Enrolment Application (R&E): R and E is an Internet Site available for the customers to access the various online services. Registration and Enrolment Application is a core system, which handles customer Registration and enrolment process. Once the customer registers through the R & E Application he automatically Gains access to around 35 applications.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in complete SDLC Life Cycle.  • Involved in Developing Web Services Endpoints.  • Web based GUI screens using JSF, JSP, Servlet, Ajax, and JavaScript.  • Developed MVC design pattern based User Interface using JSP, XML, HTML and Struts 2.  • Configured and maintained the Spring Application Framework's IoC container.  • Developed business APIs using Session Beans, Entities for accessing data from the database.  • Involved in SOA implementation using Web Services developed SOAP based.  • Developed asynchronous components using IBM MQ Series with JMS for queuing and messaging.  • Used log4j for Error and Exception Handling. Used Assertions during development phase to detect errors and malfunctions.  • Used CVS for version control and JUnit test cases for all the classes developed in DAO layer.  • Provided verbal and written status reports during all phases of development, testing, and implementation.    Environment: JAVA 5.0, J2EE (JSP, Servlets, EJB), Spring 2.x, SOAP, Web services, AXIS, XML (SAX, DOM), XSL, Hibernate, Oracle10g, UML, JavaScript, JUnit, ANT, CVS, Eclipse, Log4J, Windows XP, Solaris Education Bachelor of Technology in Computer Science and Engineering JNTU - Hyderabad, Telangana Skills J2EE (9 years), JAVA (9 years), JUNIT (8 years), JSON (7 years), ECLIPSE (5 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Programming Languages JAVA, JavaScript, XML, SQL  Web Technologies  AngularJS, Angular 2/4, Typescript, Express, CSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, HTML5, JSON, JSP, Servlet, JDBC, REST and SOAP Web Services    Database Oracle, , Cassandra, MongoDB, MS SQL Server, Postgres, MySQL  Application / Web Servers Apache Tomcat, Web Logics, JBoss,  Technologies/ Frameworks J2EE, Spring, Spring Security and Spring LDAP, Microservices, Web Services, Hibernate, JDBC, Junit JMS, Log4j, Struts  Tools Git, Jenkins, Maven IntelliJ, Eclipse, Visual Studio, SVN, Artifactory, Toad, Ant, CVS, CI/CD