Software Engineer <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Software Engineer San Antonio, TX • 24 years experience as an engineer and developer  • 9 of those years as the system administrator for a small company  • 6 of those years experience as a developer and operator Work Experience Software Engineer EMD inc October 2016 to October 2018 Lead developer for new interface for jet engine test stand GUI. The system uses nearly 10k configuration files  developed for performing a wide variety of tests on parts for various jet engines. The system documented test  results and system calibrations. I used Linux command line tools to modify the system configuration files.  Developer on project designed to create a proprietary secure system for our customer. The system was designed  so that the customers IP could not be stolen. Developer and Software Engineer SDF Automation LLC - Albuquerque, NM July 2010 to October 2016 Collaborated with customer to design and build system that prevented loss of electricity and steam to the  university campus due to failure of a steam turbine  Collaborated with customer to design and build laundry automation systems  Designed and built water supply system that interacts with operators and customers through SMS text  messages  Added remote access for operators Department Head Industrial Electric-Automation Inc April 2001 to July 2010 Software Engineering – architect and lead of all software projects, designed and built integrated  systems  Manager – managed 3 developers, 1 outside developer, and 2 additional support personnel  System Administrator – maintained Windows servers, added configuration for remote access,  maintained several database applications, maintained system backups, maintained local network and  VPN connection to remote office, provided IT support Developer and Operator CAC Inc August 1994 to April 2001 Developer for distributed system of 160+ processors on 4 separate networks. Collaborated with others  to develop programming, tag naming, alarm, and other standards. Designed and developed Perl  program to filter and analyze alarms. Participated in migration from DEC PDP11 to Windows.  Operated 4 Windows servers, one for each network. Education Bachelor's in Mechanical Engineering UNM - Albuquerque, NM 1984 to 1990 Skills BACK END, Git, JENKINS, PYTHON, SQL Certifications/Licenses AWS Solutions Architect Associate July 2019 to July 2022 Additional Information Skills    • AWS Solutions Architect Associate  • AWS Security Specialty Certification (in progress)  • AWS Network Specialty Certification (in progress)  • Python - for automating security on AWS, HackerRank 5 Star  • BASH - since the early 1990's  • Linux - starting with Slackware, in the mid 1990's, loaded from floppies  • Networks: various protocols over Ethernet & serial, UFH & VFH radio, spread spectrum wireless  • Lambda, Git, Ansible, Jenkins, Qt Creator  • System Design - GUI's, back end, standardization  • SQL - queries, securing, design of small databases  • Satisfying the requirements of various regulatory agencies such as: UL, FDA, NEC, Army Corps of  Engineers  • Trustworthy: previously held a DOE - L clearance, upon hiring at my first two jobs I was granted  administrative passwords, keys to the building, and security system codes.