Job Seeker Work Experience Cognizant Technology Solutions India Private Limited April 2018 to Present Technologies Core JAVA(1.8), Spring MVC, REST, FreeMarker (JAVA Template Engine), JQuery    Project Description  • Re -platforming an existing application. The application manages participant annuity calculation, maintains contract (single/joint life) and beneficiary related information.    Role and Responsibilities  • Requirement analysis, acceptance criterion and estimation for development of user stories.  • Providing support during development of wireframes.  • Taking part in the grooming sessions, requirement gathering, analyzing the requirements  • Managing overall offshore delivery. Providing regular updates. Senior Associate Projects Cognizant Technology Solutions May 2016 to Present Worked as Advisory System Analyst in IBM India Private Limited. Senior Developer Cognizant Technology Solutions India Private Limited August 2017 to March 2018 Customer TIAA  Team Size 7  Duration August 2017 - March 2018  Company Cognizant Technology Solutions India Private Limited  Technologies Core JAVA(1.8), Spring MVC, REST, FreeMarker (JAVA Template Engine), JQuery    Project Description  • Re -platforming an existing application. The application manages client investments.    Role and Responsibilities  • Requirement analysis and estimation for development of user stories.    • Developing user stories based on requirements and referring to the wireframes.  • Taking part in the grooming sessions, requirement gathering, analyzing the requirements  • Taking part in the code restructuring process and performance improvements.  • Defect fixing based on inputs from the functional testing team (HP ALM).  • Integrated custom caching framework for performance improvements.  • Managing overall offshore delivery. Providing regular updates.  • Code quality improvements, Sonar fixes.    3. Work Around Petal Senior Developer DFS - Get One Portal 2018 to 2018 Senior Developer Cognizant Technology Solutions India Private Limited June 2016 to July 2017 Customer TIAA  Team Size 9  Duration June 2016 - July 2017  Company Cognizant Technology Solutions India Private Limited  Technologies Core JAVA(1.6), JAVAssist, Hibernate Validator Framework, JMS, RTC, Regular Expression, JAVA Reflection    Project Description  • The WAP application module processes and validates various incoming file types like Vendor Descriptor, Common Remittance, Adjustment, Feedback in order to generate proper output, audit and report files.    Role and Responsibilities  • Requirement analysis and estimation for development of workarounds.  • Reviewing codes and issue fixing using Sonar.  • Taking part in the grooming sessions, requirement gathering, analyzing the requirements  • Taking part in the code restructuring process  • Defect fixing based on inputs from the functional testing team.  • Mentored team members with less experience and have taken care helping them in learning technologies and solving the technical issues they faced related to project. Associate Projects Cognizant Technology Solutions India Private Limited July 2015 to May 2016 IBM India Private Limited July 2015 to May 2016 Technologies  IBM WebSphere Portal 8.0.0.1, AngularJS, REST, Oracle Virtual VM (UNIX based), Maven 3, GIT, Gerrit, Agile SCRUM, JIRA, Bower, Restful WebServices.    Project Description  Three portal applications for Daimler Financial Services.  • Three portals (customer, service center and dealer) are being developed simultaneously to cater to all the future requirements of customers, dealers and service centers.  • Oracle virtual VM was used as the development box.  • Following Agile SCRUM methodology the portal application was developed. User stories were selected from the backlog and normally a team of developers worked on individual user stories. JIRA was used as a bug tracking, issue tracking and project management software.  • Developer work flow tools consisted of - GIT, Gerrit and Jenkings.  • Each portal is an Angular JS based single page application deployed in IBM WebSphere Portal server.  • Providing new ideas to improve user experiences.    Role and Responsibilities  • Requirement analysis and estimation for the tasks.  • Implemented Service Layer Functionality.  • Developing various functionalities adhering to the guidelines. Three portals are being developed. 'Customer portal', 'Service center portal' and 'Dealer portal'.  • Reviewing codes as per the reference document.  • Taking part in the grooming sessions, requirement gathering, analyzing the requirements  • Breaking the stories into subtasks and updating JIRA on a daily basis  • Developing RESTful web services to communicate with the WF&I layer  • Taking part in the code restructuring process  • Defect fixing based on inputs from the testing team.  • Mentored team members with less experience and have taken care helping them in learning technologies and solving the technical issues they faced related to project.    5. A gateway application Developer Cognizant Technology Solutions India Private Limited May 2015 to June 2015 Customer JPMorgan Chase  Team Size 5  Duration May 2015 - Jun 2015  Company Cognizant Technology Solutions India Private Limited  Technologies JDK1.6, Spring Core, RESTful Webservices (Jersey), JMS, Maven 3    Project Description  A gateway application for the BPM system.  The application sits between various other applications and the BPM system as an intermidiatory. The system takes care of various asynchronous calls made/messages sent to BPM system.    Role and Responsibilities  • Requirement gathering, analysis and estimation for the tasks.  • Developing the middleware application adhering to the guidelines. Engineer Collabera Solutions Private Limited April 2012 to June 2015 deployed at IBM Developer Cognizant Technology Solutions India Private Limited May 2014 to May 2015 Customer TransCelerate BioPharma Inc. (Consortium of 19 Life Sciences Company)  Team Size 20  Duration May 2014 - May 2015  Company Cognizant Technology Solutions India Private Limited  Technologies JDK1.6, Liferay 6.2, Java, JSP, Eclipse, Maven 3, Spring MVC Portlet, JBOSS , JASON, JQuery, CSS, JUnit    Project Description  A portal application. Developing a shared investigator platform (Transcelerate) for various Life sciences company, initiatives which will accelerate and enhance clinical trials and to collaborate across the biopharmaceutical research and development community to identify, prioritize, design and facilitate the implementation of solutions to drive efficient, effective and high-quality delivery of new medicines, improving the health of people around the world.    Role and Responsibilities  • Requirement analysis and estimation for the tasks.  • Understanding & Working on the development of features assigned.  • Worked on the bugs that were assigned to me with appropriate Unit Tests.  • Prepared UI Screens for the application with the help from the UI team.  • Implemented service layer functionality. Developing various custom liferay portlets  • Developing various loosely coupled reusable components  • JUnit testing different modules  • Cross site scripting to protect the web application from security vulnerability Developer Cognizant Technology Solutions India Private Limited June 2012 to May 2014 Customer Lowe's Companies, Inc, USA  Team Size 6  Duration Jun 2012 - May 2014  Company Cognizant Technology Solutions India Private Limited  Technologies  JDK 1.5, IBM WebSphere Portal 6.1, Java, JSP, Servlets, WebSphere Portal Server, IBM RAD, DB2, Maven 3, TeamSite, IBM Connections, Synaptica (Taxonomy tool), JASON, REST, LDAP    Project Description  A web based portal application integrated with other third party applications. The portal application consisted of various portlets representing other applications. Aggregating content from different sources (IBM WCM, TeamSite) to display in various portal pages.    'Connections' is a business social network platform helps improve knowledge sharing, decision-making and innovation.    Role and Responsibilities  • Worked on New Enhancements.  • Monitoring TDI jobs.  • Supporting and maintaining components of Connections - Homepage, Profiles, Bookmarks, Activities, Wikis, Files, Communities, Blogs, Forums and their backend systems.  • Administering the Connections Application  • Monitoring Incident details, including the configuration items affected  • Incident investigation, diagnosis and troubleshooting  • Resolving escalated customer complaints without the need for team lead intervention  • Documenting the problem resolution steps  • Service request resolution    CITICOMP  Developer  CITI Group, USA  4 Software Developer BEAS Consultancy and Services Private Limited March 2011 to April 2012 Collabera Solutions Private Limited March 2011 to February 2012 Java, JSP, Servlets, Struts 1.2, Spring 2.0, Eclipse IDE, Oracle 9i, iBatis, AJAX, JavaScript    Project Description  Enhancement of the current compensation management system. Adding new modules to the existing system like 'Covered Employee', 'Commitment Phase 2'.Also responsibilities included maintaining the existing application.  At the time of joining commitments are made to employees of the group. The system keeps track of such commitments along with other employment related history.    Role and Responsibilities  • Implemented Fixes for Functionality Bugs .  • Implementation of new features  • Development of UI functionality using Struts and strictly following J2EE best practices.  • Involved in the developing of the new modules.  • Review of code based on Java J2EE best practices and performance tuning for the web modules.  • UAT support for the project and resolution of critical issues reported within 24 hours of being reported.  • Development of the new modules following the existing logic and architecture.  • Proper handling of exceptions and using a logging framework throughout the application for debugging and error notifications.    9. Enterprise Technical Support Center(ETSC) Senior Developer 2012 to 2012 Developer BEAS Consultancy and Services Private Limited October 2010 to February 2011 Customer LMC Software Solutions, USA  Team Size 5  Duration Oct 2010 - Feb 2011  Company BEAS Consultancy and Services Private Limited  Technologies SQL, Unix    Project Description  The Enterprise Technical Support Center (ETSC) is an innovative development and production support platform designed for technical teams that support business enterprise applications.  It enables technical support teams to maximize the operational availability, management and support of business enterprise applications through a unified, model-driven, support platform.    It contains a centralized, powerful set of features and tools that enable technical support teams to maximize the operational availability, management and support of business enterprise applications. ETSC is platforms independent (operating systems) and brings together all the hardware, software and configuration settings that define the operational enterprise application environment.  A central support framework and access allows multiple support teams to calibrate and coordinate activities with open visibility providing for the tracking of accesses and changes made to the system.    Role and Responsibilities  • Migrating the application form JBoss 4.2 to JBoss 5.1.  • Gathering requirement and accordingly adding new functionalities to the application system.  • Developing new module and incorporating the same into the existing system  • Enhancement of pre-existing modules    10. JMDTS Software Developer Stark Consulting and Software Services October 2010 to February 2011 Developer Stark Consulting and Software Services April 2010 to October 2010 Customer Jai Mata Di Transport Service Private Limited, India  Team Size 6  Duration Apr 2010 - Oct 2010  Company Stark Consulting and Software Services  Technologies JAVA 1.5, JSP, SERVLET, JDBC, JAVA MAIL API, AJAX, MySQL, Tomcat    Project Description  The software will help the company manage their transportation operation. It is a multi- user, network ready application that allows the operational management of the trucking company.  At the initial stage the system is mainly divided into three parts    • Master Entry  • Operation Transaction Entry  • Report  In the booking process a consignment details entry is made and the consigner is given a consignment number. Then a loading sheet a prepared at the godown and according to the Loading sheet a manifest is generated and 'challan' is prepared. Similarly at the destination point a unloading manifest is prepared after unloading.  Packages of a single consignment can be dispatched through different challans.  The transportation company has many regular customers with fixed terms. At the time of entering the consignment details the rates fixed with the party is automatically filled up. Secure data and masters: No individual can access all data in the application. Also, master tables can be changed only centrally by authorized personnel. This results in highly secure and reliable data.  Also admin and other users can view different detailed and summarized reports.  The application system remembers who did what and when. Thus, it is easy to track a transaction.    Role and Responsibilities  • Implementing features.  • Project analysis. Different master entry page creation.  • Developing user view pages.  • Consignment Note entry page creation, and adding functionalities using JAVA Script and AJAX, according to the customer requirement. Automatic amount and service tax calculation using AJAX.  • Development of different web based reports like Consignment Register Report, Consignment Summary Report.  • Interacting with the client to acquire domain knowledge specific to the transportation industry for better understanding of the requirement.  • Resolution of issues reported by clients within the specified timeline.  • Understanding business requirements and bug fixes.    11. Learning portal Project Trainee Ambuja Cements Limited November 2009 to October 2010 A Holcim group company) Developer Stark Consulting and Software Services - Kolkata, WEST BENGAL, IN March 2010 to April 2010 Customer Saint Judes, Educational Institute in Kolkata, India  Team Size 3  Duration Mar 2010 - Apr 2010  Company Stark Consulting and Software Services  Technologies Java 2, JSP, SERVLETS, JDBC , NetBeans 6.7, Tomcat, MySQL, JAVA MAIL API, AJAX, Quartz API    Project Description  The learning portal is a web site that contains different types of learning and training materials.  The learning portal creates a self-service environment for users(students).    There is an online student registration system for various educational courses.    After registering with the system a student gets a confirmation mail with a randomly generated ticket number. The administrator of the system is also confirmed about the new student registration.    In the registration page a student provides cheque payment details (Cheque No. and Bank Name).Admin log- into the system to view all the Cheque details provided by the students and validates them against actual bank statements.    Upon validation the student receives a username and password generated by the system over mail. With the help of this username and password a student can gain access into the portal.    Some contents displayed on the portal are general to all and some contents are customized according to the course applied. After login, the system automatically determines the learning resources.  A student can give practice examination and a detailed analysis of the test could be viewed later.    Also there is a provision of referral. A student can refer a maximum of six other students .Upon meeting this criteria a student is awarded points.  The administrator can view the student referral hierarchy in tree-view.    Role and Responsibilities  • Developed the student and administrator pages.  • Implemented the mail sending logic to students and administrator.  • Implemented the html body of the mail sent to the students and the administrator. Developed the logic of the student referral hierarchy.  • Implemented the automatic determination of the learning resources according to the student course id upon student login.  • Developed and implemented the category wise random question set generation logic.  • Developed the online examination system.  • Involved in designing of the database.  • Used Quartz API to determine the time elapsed for any particular student.  • Implemented database connectivity using JDBC API. Developer Stark Consulting and Software Services - Kolkata, WEST BENGAL, IN December 2009 to February 2010 Customer Job Consultancy in Kolkata, India  Team Size 3  Duration Dec 2009 - Feb 2010  Company Stark Consulting and Software Services  Technologies Java, JSP, Servlets, JDBC, NetBeans 6.7, Tomcat, MySQL    Project Description  The Job Consultancy will use this software to match requirements with profiles matching the requirement. This software will help the job consultancy match ideal candidates with requirement. There are three types of users. Administer, Request User, HR User. Based on the requirement posted by the request user, the HR users search the database for matching profiles. Different types of searching facility to search candidates are available in the software system.    Role and Responsibilities  • Depending on the change in requirements had to modify the application.  • Developed the user Interface Screens for presentation logic using JSPs and HTML. Developed application logic.  • Worked on database designing, Involved in modeling the entire system.  • Implemented database Connectivity using JDBC API.  • Implemented client side validations using JavaScript. Developer Ambuja Cements Limited April 2008 to October 2009 India  Team Size 7  Duration Apr 2008 - Oct 2009  Company Ambuja Cements Limited  Technologies Java 2, JSP, SERVLETS, JDBC, AJAX, NetBeans 6.7, Tomcat, MySQL, JQuery, Microsoft VB, Oracle 9i    Project Description  To exchange information at the plant level a database driven mail-type web application was developed using J2EE. The authorized users of the system were department HOD's and Unit Head. The system had INBOX, OUTBOX, DRAFT information saving facility. Users could compose and send messages. The admin user had the privilege to view all other mails.    Role and Responsibilities  • Modify/Enhance the application based on the requirements.  • Developed the user Interface Screens for presentation logic using JSPs, HTML, JavaScript, JQuery.    • Worked on database designing, involved in modeling the entire system.  • Implemented database connectivity using JDBC API.  • Also responsibility includes maintaining the system.  • Modify the application depending upon the change in requirements.  Understand, investigate and troubleshoot / resolve the problems faced by the users.  • Provide responses within agreed time limits. Analysis and troubleshoot the day-to-day requests and queries raised by users on the applications and modules that the team supported.  • Analyze, Code SQL queries and Stored Procedures based on user requirement  • Also responsibility includes maintaining the system.  • Maintaining different modules of an ERP system, it was developed using MICROSOFT VISUAL BASIC AND ORACLE 9i. Different Modules of the ERP system were the Materials Management Module, Sales & Distribution Module, Finance module.    14. Inventory Management System Trainee Software Engineer PAM Developments Private Limited April 2008 to October 2009 DURATION: From 2nd February 2006 to 30th OCTOBER, 2007    Relevant Project Experience    1. Payment Maintenance and Claims(Immediate Annuity) Trainee Developer PAM Developments Private Limited April 2008 to October 2009 Company PAM Developments Private Limited  Technologies Java, JSP, Servlet, JDBC, Tomcat, MySQL, JavaScript    Project Description  Enhancement and Maintenance of an Inventory Management System.  The inventory management system used to keep track of different ongoing construction projects/sites for the company.    Role and Responsibilities  • Depending on the change in the requirements had to modify the application.  • Developed the user Interface Screens for presentation logic using JSPs and HTML. Developed application logic.  • Enhancement and Maintenance of an Inventory Management System.  • Involved in server side coding.  • Implemented client side validations using JavaScript.  • Developed web based reports for management. Education Bachelor of Technology in Computer Science and Engineering Heritage Institute of Technology - Kolkata, WEST BENGAL, IN