Senior C#/ASP.NET Developer Senior C#/ASP.NET <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior C#/ASP.NET Developer Falls Church, VA Work Experience Senior C#/ASP.NET Developer Dept. of Veterans Affairs - McLean, VA July 2016 to September 2018 • Served as senior/lead ASP.Net MVC/C# web developer for the Department of Veterans Affairs, Office of Inspector General Enterprise Management System (EMS). EMS is a new case management system that supports the workflows and reporting for all VA investigations, and has over 700 users nationwide.  • Performed full stack design/development of ASP.Net 4.5 MVC and web forms containing custom jQuery/javascript and business/data access C# components. Implemented the US Web design system in support of section 508 requirements.  • Wrote T-Sql stored procedures and design tables on SQL Server 2014. Wrote SSIS ETL scripts in T-Sql for importing data from a legacy Oracle application.  • Developed SSRS reports for various modules in the system.  • Developed C# components to interface with SharePoint and Exchange using Microsoft APIs.  • Performed builds and deploy EMS to IIS. Used TFS to track work items and source code.  • Led the planning and execution of the go-live technical activities for the system.  • Attended meetings with business stakeholders and end users to elicit and refine functional requirements. Senior C#/VB.NET Developer IRS - McLean, VA January 2013 to June 2016 • Served as senior .NET developer for the IRS Integrated Submission and Remittance Processing (ISRP) system on the Paper and Remittance Processing Support program. The system processes all IRS tax forms. Modified and created new .NET code to support annual legislative changes to IRS forms, including Affordable Care Act and Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act changes.  • Developed a custom reporting module in ASP.NET MVC/C# that dynamically generates UI filter controls based on report type selected and passes parameter values to SSRS reports. Integrated the module with TransCentra TMS 2011 payment processing software. Developed 20 SSRS reports and associated T-SQL stored procedures for the remittance processing portion of the system. Senior C#/ASP.NET Developer IRS - Washington, DC January 2012 to January 2013 • Served as lead developer of the Commitments of Traders Automation project, which is used to generate data for weekly reports for publication on CFTC's website. The system is workflow-based and consists of a ASP.NET MVC UI, a C# services layer, 50 T-SQL stored procedures, and 30 SSRS reports. Created and modified stored procedures, reports, and XAML code. Used TFS to track work items and source code.  • Designed and developed a ASP.NET MVC/ C#/Telerik application that allows CFTC staff to search for and associate large traders of futures with large trader swaps accounts. The system uses Entity Framework, ADO.NET, and SQL Server databases. Designed tables and created database scripts to support the application. Wrote a deployment document for CM, and deployed the application to IIS on Windows 2008 web servers. Configured the application to allow Kerberos authentication. Met with CFTC managers and users to elicit system requirements and to demonstrate prototypes. Trained users on the system.  • Designed and developed reports in SSRS for the Unified Reporting System using Visual Studio 2010 and SQL Server 2008 R2. Developed views and stored procedures in T-SQL that serve as data sources for the reports. Developed a report input parameter "widget" in C# that generates Telerik controls dynamically based on parameter types. The widget can replace the default Microsoft SSRS input window, which has several limitations.  • Designed, developed, and configured a C# WCF web service that assigns a unique organization identifier for new organizations reporting information to CFTC. Senior C# Developer/Architect US Citizenship and Immigration Services - Washington, DC December 2001 to December 2011 • Served as lead C# developer and architect for the USCIS CLAIMS4 Naturalization system, which is deployed to over 3000 users in over 100 field offices nationwide. The system processes approximately 500k applications and $500 million in revenue annually. Used Visual Studio 2010 Ultimate (with .NET Framework 3.5/4.0), Crystal Reports 2010, and Oracle ODP.NET to develop UI, business, and data access layer components for the system. The new system is a service-oriented and domain driven design. Functionality includes data correction, adjudication, bounced check processing, notice production, scheduling, and certificate production for five citizenship forms. This functionality is implemented as services. The custom software framework and design for this effort was presented to and well received by USCIS executives as a potential enterprise approach for case processing.  • Created UML class and sequence diagrams using Visual Studio Modeling feature pack, and assisted with design document authoring. Participated in data modeling efforts.  • Introduced several design patterns (e.g. MVP, Repository, Façade, Specification) to the project and program.  • Participated in the conversion of legacy VB6 system components into the .NET framework mentioned above.  • Developed proof of concept prototypes in ASP.NET MVC, WPF, and VB.NET.  • Developed components to consume background check services in the CBP IBIS system using Tibco library and ESB via SOAP/XML.  • Developed and maintained .NET code, Crystal Reports, and PL/SQL stored procedures and triggers for the CLAIMS4 system in support of over 100 software change requests. These included high visibility efforts such as the secure certificate initiative, which was presented to the agency CIO and CFO.  • Served as subject matter expert for the notices, reporting, and certificate functional areas. Resolved Tier 3 help desk tickets.  • Received an award for outstanding service from USCIS OIT (December 2010). Senior Developer/Consultant EDS - Washington, DC April 1998 to December 2001 • Served as lead developer and designer on a task to modernize the Notices production subsystem for the INS CLAIMS 4 naturalization system. The n-tier subsystem was developed using Visual Basic 6, ADO 2.5, Crystal Reports 8.0, Oracle 8i SQL, and PL/SQL, and is deployed at INS service centers and district offices nationwide. Functionality includes notice creation, print job creation and submission, print job management, and viewing notice history. Modeled system components and data entities with UML class and ER diagrams. Participated in the physical database design of Oracle tables, constraints, stored procedures, and triggers.  • Performed impact analyses and develop new functionality, based on INS software change requests, for the Reporting subsystem of CLAIMS 4. This included modifying VB code, Oracle stored procedures, and Crystal Reports templates to add new notice types and reports.  • Developed a data/image transfer utility using VB5 and Oracle 8i SQL to support the INS LIFE Act. Utility periodically queries an Oracle database for new records and transfers the data and images to a LAN for eventual use in producing cards.  • Wrote sections for the system design document according to SDLC requirements. Software Developer/Consultant TRW - Washington, DC August 1997 to February 1998 Developed new forms and code for the Overseas Private Investment Corporation's (OPIC) Business Management System (BMS), a three-tier application. Developed reports in Access 97. Technologies utilized included VB5, MTS, RDO, and Oracle 7.3 SQL. Software Developer/Consultant ADI Technology Corporation - Alexandria, VA April 1997 to July 1997 Developed new forms and code for a custom document management/imaging system. Technologies utilized included VB4 EE, ODBC, 3rd party controls, and Oracle 7.2 SQL Software Developer/Consultant American Management Systems - Fairfax, VA August 1996 to April 1997 Developed new forms and code for the Defense Dental Standard System (DDSS) project, client/server system.  Technologies utilized included VB4 EE, RDO, various 3rd party controls, and Oracle 7.3 SQL. Software Developer/Consultant Stanford Telecommunications, INTELSAT - Headquarters, WA May 1996 to August 1996 DC  Developed new forms and code for a client/server based, communications satellite monitoring system. Created reports using Crystal Reports 4.0. Technologies utilized included 3rd party controls and Oracle 7.2 SQL, Software Developer Talus Inc - Alexandria, VA October 1995 to May 1996 • Developed, using VB3, Oracle Objects for OLE, 3rd party controls, and SQL, new forms and code for HealthData's HealthDataMgr medical information management system. Application is a pen-based, multi-user client/server system.  • Enhanced, using VB3, Oracle Objects for OLE, and SQL, the Encounter Data Collection and Payment System for Dental Benefit Providers.  • Developed, using VB3, Access 2.0, and MS Mail, a multi-user help desk management system for Dental Benefit Providers. Software Developer Information Management Consultants - McLean, VA September 1994 to September 1995 Served as lead VB3 developer for client/server workflow/imaging systems for Maersk Shipping's Rating Department, Pershing Securities Corporation's Retirement Accounts Division, and Ark Life Assurance's (Ireland). Technologies utilized included DDE, OLE Automation, Windows API calls, Access, and FileNet calls and controls. Database Design Analyst SRA Corporation - Arlington, VA May 1994 to August 1994 Analyzed and compared data element dictionaries of multiple DOD personnel systems for data redundancy. Education Bachelor of Science in Industrial Engineering in Industrial Engineering Columbia University - New York, NY Master of Science in Management Information Systems in Management Information Systems University of Arizona - Tucson, AZ Skills ADO, DATABASE, DATABASE SYSTEMS, ADO.NET, SQL SERVER, .Net, ASP, Angular, C#, MVC, Javascript, WCF, WPF Certifications/Licenses Developing ASP.NET MVC Web Applications May 2019 to Present 70-486 Microsoft Azure Fundamentals May 2019 AZ900. Additional Information Microsoft-certified senior developer/architect with several years of experience in .NET development (C#, ASP.NET, VB.NET), MVC, SOA, COTS integration, and Oracle and SQL Server databases under SDLC and Agile environments. Proven ability to deliver creative solutions on time and budget. Excellent analytical, problem solving, communication, and team skills. Clearable US Citizen (hold current DOD Secret and public trust clearances).