Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Silver Spring, MD Enhance my experienced in Software Engineering and Cyber Solutions while applying experience of multiple platforms and adhering to company mission. Work Experience Software Developer Semper Valens April 2019 to Present Develop system using ASP.net, C#, sql server, ReportBuilder, TFS, and GIt in an agile environment for Veterans Admin Office of Inspector General. Software Developer/Analyst Koncepts June 2017 to December 2018 Software Developer  • Design, code, test and deploy Ruby on Rails web applications using best-practices.  • Collaborate with user to establish and refine requirements  • Rapidly prototype and refine applications based on user experience feedback  • Create rich client-side/AJAX experiences using technologies like Ruby on Rails  • Use common SQL data layers like PostgreSQL and MySQL. Senior Software Engineer EnnoblisLLC November 2015 to April 2017 • Install and maintain legacy systems awarded to Leido's with little or no design instruction on both Linux and Microsoft platforms.  • Install system in Amazon Web Service (AWS) environment for testing.  • Develop and maintain system applications of ASP C# and VB .Net, JavaScript, ArcGIS, Jenkins, Oracle, Sql Server and other COTS/GOTS tools using Agile methodology with Jira and Confluence reporting and documenting tools.  -Engineered the installation of software on a Linux platform for National International Geospatial Agency included reverse engineer legacy systems with no instructions. Software include Netbeans, Java, MongoDB, Tableau, ArcGIS (Esri tools) and other GOTS/COTS tools. Software Developer/Analyst Koncepts - Silver Spring, MD June 2014 to October 2015 Software Developer  • Design, code, test and deploy Ruby on Rails web applications using best-practices.  • Collaborate with user to establish and refine requirements  • Rapidly prototype and refine applications based on user experience feedback  • Create rich client-side/AJAX experiences using technologies like Ruby JQuery, Javascript.  • Use common SQL data layers like PostgreSQL and MySQL. Applications Developer Fusion Technology LLC June 2012 to April 2014 • Developed an agency-wide enterprise Human Resource web application in an Agile environment with a team of designers and testers in a cleared environment.  • Identified and researched the scope of functionality and suggest development solutions with cost benefit and design options with customer.  • Incorporated embedded COTS technologies and security as necessary.  • Conducted formal and informal product functional testing throughout the software SDLC to identify functional, performance and schedules potential issues.  • Developed backend database design and maintenance Oracle 11g server environment.  • Conducted advanced research and recommended innovations.  • Developed software using C#.Net, Ajax, ASP.Net, JavaScript, Telerik KendoUI and other embedded COTS/API tools. Sr. Software Engineer Exceptional Software Solutions August 2011 to April 2012 • Designed and maintained web applications in a DOD TS cleared environment with a team of Software Engineers in Annapolis Junction  • Design front-end analytical prototype modeling for user acceptance.  • Developed and maintained SqlServer client server database  • Developed and maintained software using Microsoft C#.Net VB.Net, ASP, JavaScript with SQLServer database while adhering to ISO/IEC/IEEE 15288,  • Designed and implemented automated testing tools for database impacts, software scenarios, regression testing and usability during cross-team testing. Sr. Software Engineer Novii Design August 2010 to March 2011 • Served on a project with a team responsible for the engineering of a Cybersolution for a cross-collaborative defense agencies tool.  • Developed the user interface and backend database for near real-time identification of malicious traffic for the protection and management of IP networks. GUI was developed in Ruby on Rails on Linux MongoDB, MySql interfacing with Netezza data warehouse and other COTS tools.  • Tested and recommended COTS tools for embedded engineering.  • Developed visual and graphic analytics using Splunk (certification), Tableau, Snort, Google Maps.  • Recorded progress in Agile scheduling tool Jira. Sr. Consultant Booz Allen Hamilton March 2008 to July 2010 • Subject Matter Expert of full life cycle development and maintenance of projects for Ft Mead client.  • Developed web applications in VB.Net and C#.Net with SqlServer database.  • Gather and document customer requirements.  • Works with customers and users to evaluate, estimate and perform application development and/or business process change requests under the direction of the appropriate Technical Leaders and Stakeholders.  • Reverse engineer applications using IDA Pro to support defense systems. Programmer Analyst Keane, Inc May 1999 to February 2008 • Served as a project SME at Verizon Information Systems. Migrated Verizon's Yellow Pages system from a Cobol mainframe to a MicroSoft client server environment.  • Designed methodology of data conversion and normalization of databases in Oracle and PL/SQL.  • Documented system functional, testing and technical specifications. Programmer/Analyst Tomco Systems, Inc July 1994 to April 1999 • Developed budget application product in Visual Basic, SQL, Coldfusion and Crystal Reports for desk application. Application was developer for the Dept of Human Services and Ft McNair Army to track funding of both national and offshore budgets.  • Documented requirements, technical specifications, testing and training manuals. Provided 24-hour customer and operations support of this global telecommunication system. Programmer Analyst SYS Inc September 1987 to July 1994 • Developed and maintained software the Washington Navy Yards's Naval Air Systems Command's Automated Air Escape Systems using Cobol, JCL in CICS. The system was utilized to track and research aircraft mishaps to prevent failure of other aircrafts and life-saving equipment. Worked closely with Aeronautical Engineers to gather requirements and design multiple applications in the SDLC.  • Developed and maintainted statistics using Crystal Reports of aeronautical mishaps of Navy and Marines.  • Coordinated system security according to Dept of Defense MIL-STD and MIL-SPEC specifications. Education AAS in Computer Science Technology University District of Columbia Certificate Computer Institute of Rockville Skills ORACLE (8 years), SQL (10+ years), .NET (6 years), C# (6 years), Ruby on Rails (2 years), Cobol (3 years), Telerik Controls (3 years), Javascript (5 years), JQuery (5 years), Agile (7 years), Tableau (4 years), VB.Net (3 years), Esri tools/ ArcGIS (4 years), html, asp, Embedded Software, Embedded, .NET, Linux, MVC (Less than 1 year), Bootstrap (Less than 1 year), Ajax (5 years), Web Services (5 years), MySQL (3 years), Software Development (10+ years), Git, CSS, HTML 5 Certifications/Licenses Splunk December 2011 to Present