Software Engineer <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Software Engineer Miami, FL Programmer analyst professional, offering 20+ years of experience, of commended performance in object-oriented programming. Strong knowledge of Information Systems Architecture, Object Oriented Design principles, Database Design and Software Development Methodologies. Skilled in collecting facts, discovering problems as well as providing solutions to them, capable of working independently or as an effective team player. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Engineer Blackstone Merchant Services - Miami, FL August 2018 to 2019 Expand and maintain a software of Point of Sales (POS) for Toll payment, Bill payment, Calling Cards Sale, Top-Up Prepaid Account (WPF).  Created SQL Server scripts, stored procedures, and data transformation with SSIS. Software Engineer Freezing Mechanical - Miami, FL January 2018 to August 2018 Designed and developed from scratch a Field Service Management Software (Angular 5 + Material).  Designed and developed a RESTful Api (ASP.NET, Entity Framework). Software Engineer CargoLink Systems - Miami, FL January 2017 to December 2017 Aeronautic Industry application design and development in Universal Windows Presentation (UWP) with C# for mobile devices and desktop.  Developed SQL Server scripts and stored procedures. Tuned and optimized existing ones.  Produce Production-Ready front end XAML code and back end in C#. Developed services.  Developed web pages using ASP.NET to expand and enhance existent websites. IT Manager/ Software Developer Blau Varadero Hotel September 2005 to November 2016 Designed and developed applications to optimize organization, control, and decision-making processes in hotel and hotel chain such as all-inclusive budget management, maintenance control, data integration from different accounting and management systems. Used Visual Studio.Net.  Application support and user training.  Conversion of Visual FoxPro applications to C#.Net applications.  SQL Server database administration, monitoring, and performance tuning. Users, schema, and roles management.  Designed and implemented maintenance plans for indexes, statistics, defragmentation, backup and restore.  Designed and implemented DTS packages. IT Manager Beaches Varadero Hotel September 2000 to 2005 Created and modified stored procedures, functions, triggers, views and reports in SQL Server according to requirements.  Designed and maintained reports with Crystal Reports and SQL Server.  Designed and developed Applications like Surveys Processing System and Restaurants and Optional Attractions Booking System.  Administered Windows Active Directory. Configured and managed DHCP, DNS, WSUS, MDaemon email servers, and Microsoft ISA Server. Programmer Analyst Get Varadero September 1996 to August 2000 Designed and developed Inventory Management System (Visual Basic)  Designed and developed eCommerce solutions (Asp)  Designed and developed IT Support Ticketing and Management System (Delphi). Programmer Analyst ESI Matanzas September 1994 to August 1996 Designed and developed Payroll System (Visual Basic)  Designed and developed Touristic Trips and Buses Distribution and Management System (Visual FoxPro). Education Bachelor of Science in Software Engineering in Jose Antonio Echeverría Higher Polytechnic Institute - La Habana, CU 1994 Skills Mysql, Sql, .net, C#, Angular / Material, Web Services, Entity Framework, Vb.Net, ASP.NET, WPF Additional Information • Well-versed in all phases of the software development lifecycle, with a strong working knowledge of algorithms and data structures. Proven success engineering customized solutions improving business processes, operations and profitability.  • Visual Studio.NET 2002-2019 (C# and VB .Net), Angular + Material, WPF/XAML, ASP.Net Core, ASP. Net, UWP (Universal Windows Platform), MVC, T-Sql, Entity Framework, Linq, Html, Typescript, SOAP, Web Services, API, WCF, Visual FoxPro, Delphi, Borland C, PHP, XML, JSon, ASP.NET Identity, Crystal Reports for .Net, SSRS, SSIS.  • UML, Scrum.  • Microsoft SQL, MySQL, SQL Lite.  • Microsoft Office Suit, Windows.