.Net architect .Net architect .Net architect - US DEPT OF COMMERCE Suitland, MD Over 16+ years of extensive software development experience using C#, VISUAL STUDIO.NET, ORACLE, MS SQLSERVER, and SYBASE. GUI experience includes Analysis, Design and Development of GUI applications and Class Libraries using OOPS. Extensive experience with all phases of software development, from requirements gathering to post-implementation support and maintenance. Experience working within both large and small teams as well as being the sole developer on a project. Extensive knowledge and experience in writing Stored Procedures, Functions and Triggers using ORACLE, MS SQL Server and Sybase. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience .Net architect US DEPT OF COMMERCE - Suitland, MD August 2018 to Present Computer Audio Recorded Interview (CARI) is a web forms application used for various surveys conducted by US census Bureau and has components such as Quality assurance, Behavior coding and coaching. It provides a set of tools and techniques for analysis and improving the quality of surveys.  • Modifications, enhancements, Bug fixes, Testing and deployment of CARI system using C#4.0, VB.net, ASP.NET, VS2013 and Oracle 11G.  • Improved screen response time for various screens and reports.  • Created new PL/SQL Stored Procedures, Functions and views to incorporate new business logic and reports.  • Created Store Procedures, Triggers and Functions using Transact-SQL.  • Optimized SQL queries to improve speed and performance.  • Made changes to the GUI/UI layer as per user requests.  • Created functional and user documentation  Environment: VS2013, C #5.0, VB.net, Telerik controls, TFS, Oracle 11G, SQL Server 2012, Toad 11.6, Windows 7.0 Lead Developer ETS - Princeton, NJ April 2016 to August 2018 Generalized Analysis System(Genasys)is a statistical analysis software that includes components for establishing testing program statistical information processing scores for students including case sampling and scoring of multiple-choice items, traditional item analyses, and item response theory (IRT) analyses and is widely used in exams such as GMAT, GRE, TOEFL etc.  • Modifications, enhancements and bug fixes to Genasys system using C#4.0, ASP.NET, VS2010 and Oracle 11G.  • Created WCF web services and used AGILE development methodology.  • Redesigned web pages using HTML, CSS, ASP.Net, Ajax and jQuery for new interactive features.  • Implemented ASP.NET MVC pattern to separate UI layer from model and controller logic.  • Used SSIS to perform ETL and to Integrate and move data from various sources.  • Created PL/SQL packages and hierarchical queries using Oracle 11G and resolved data sorting issues in 11G during the database migration from Oracle 9i to 11G.  Environment: VS2010, ASP.NET MVC 4.0, C#4.0, TFS, Jscript editor1.1.2, HTML 4.01, Oracle 11G, SQL Developer 3.0, SQL Server 2012, Windows 7.0 Software Architect GMAC MORTGAGE - Fort Washington, PA November 2014 to April 2016 WALT is a Wholesale loan tracking system used to manage and track Mortgage loans issued by GMAC to various customers. The system completely tracks the loans right from the time it is registration all the way up to the funding.  • Modifications and enhancements to Capital Market Web system using C#3.0, ASP.NET, VS2008 and Oracle 11G.  • Made use of C# 3.0 feautures such as interfaces, structs and delegates  • Made use of DataSets, Data reader and Data Adapter controls and created new and modified existing reports.  • Modifcations to the GUI layer of Financial accounting system using WPF  • Created new PL/SQL Functions, Packages, Stored Procs and Views using Oracle Sql Developer 3.0.04 to store business rules  • Optimized and fine-tuned Oracle queries to improve performance.  • Created various database objects such as Synonyms, Sequences, Indexes and views  • Worked on supporting table-partitioning initiative.  • Interacted with Business users to gather requirements  Environment: VS2008, Web forms, ASP.NET, WPF, C#3.0, TFS, JavaScript 1.8.2, HTML 4.01, Oracle 11, SQL Developer 3.0, Subversion 1.6 Lead Developer NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION - Arlington, VA June 2012 to November 2014 AWARDS is a ASP.NET web application used by NSF to grant awards to various institutions and other research related organizations. The various types of Awards include New Projects, Cooperative agreements, Standard grants etc. This system also utilizes .Net based web services and interacts with other Systems used by NSF such as Fast lane, PARS and FAS (Financial accounting system).  • Created .Net Web Services using C#, ADO.NET, Javascript, CSS, HTML and XML that was consumed by the AWARDS application  • Worked extensively with Data Adapter, Dataset and Data reader as part of ADO.Net to access and update Database.  • Used LINQ to SQL to query database objects  • Designed new tables and created T-Sql Stored Procedures to implement business rules for the Project Overview Reporting System  • Was involved in doing impact analysis of Stored Procs, Joins etc during migration of Sybase 12.5 to Sybase 15.0  • Wrote Perl Scripts to run Nightly Batch Jobs on a Weekly or Monthly basis.  • Wrote Functional, Technical and user Documentation for the Awards System  Environment: VS 2008, C#, Net 3.5, LINQ, Sybase 12.5/15.0, Perl Scripts, Rational Clearcase and ClearQuest. Sr Developer AAA MID ATLANTIC - Mount Laurel, NJ March 2010 to June 2012 MPS is a Web Forms system used by AAA Atlantic to process membership across the mid-Atlantic region and comprises different modules such as Administration, Security, and Reports etc that makes use of a Sql Server Database.  • Developed Web interface in ASP.NET for facilitating self-enrollment into the AAA program.  • Made extensive use of Dataset for XML Data Binding and Bindings to server controls.  • Made use of Grid View, Data List and Repeater Controls to display data in a customized format in the ASP.NET web pages  • Made use of the various validation controls in ASP.NET to validate user input.  • Created DTS/SSIS packages for transfer of data between databases and also these packages were treated as Datasource for reports generated through SSRS(Reporting Services)  • Used SSRS for creating tabular, freeform and crosstab reports using the Report Designor for the Retail office management system.  • Optimized and fine-tuned the SQL Queries to improve performance bottlenecks.  • Created new web reports for telemarketing using Crystal reports 11.0  • Did Maintenance, Production bug fixes, created builds and test plans for the MPS System  • Did enhancements to the web based Retail Office management system written in C# ASP.NET  Environment: Visual Studio 2005, C# 2.0, Business Objects 11.0, Sql Server 2008 Lead Developer MERRILL LYNCH - Hopewell, NJ December 2008 to March 2010 FIPB - Fixed Income Prime Broker application is a reporting system that is used by clients of Merrill lynch. This system schedules and generates reports to run on a daily basis and includes reports such as Cash Summary, Trade Date Activity, Posting Date Activity, Consolidated Positions etc.  • Migration of existing PowerBuilder application to .NET application using ASP.NET, C# 2005.  • Made customizations to existing FIPB reports as per client needs  • Debugged and removed defects in the web interface of the reporting system written in C#2.0  • Extensively used PL/SQL stored procedures, triggers and Packages using TOAD.  • Made use of object oriented features such as Inheritance, Encapsulation and Polymorphism.  • Wrote new logic to dynamically modify the Data window Sql to facilitate exporting of reports to different formats such as PDF, XLS, TXT etc using PowerBuilder 10.5  • Created new user objects and base class windows to reuse business rules and wrote new complex stored procedures that served as the data source for the reports.  • Wrote Unix Shell Scripts to schedule Autosys jobs and analyzed and resolved bugs in production.  Environment: Visual Studio 2005, C#, .Net 2.0, Oracle 10G, PowerBuilder 10.5, Autosys, Win XP COVANCE INC - Princeton, NJ July 2006 to December 2008 IVRS is an Interactive Voice Response System designed and supported by clinical teams, for doing clinical trials. It is a fully validated, automated solution to address patient enrollment, randomization, and drug supply management needs even for small and non-complex studies where IVR is not a traditional solution thus facilitating the making of clinical decisions.  • Made customizations & bug fixes to IVRS System as per client requests.  • Created new Bas and Class modules and functions in Visual Basic 6.0 to store front-end business logic.  • Created local and Global External functions in PowerBuilder and did windows API calls and RPC calls.  • Created Dynamic Sql based on the 4 formats available in PowerBuilder.  • Created New T-Sql Stored Procedures and Triggers to store business logic and enforce referential integrity.  • Optimized and enhanced Stored Procedures and generated Ad hoc reports on a daily basis.  • Created various custom reports using Sql Select and Stored Procedure as the Datasource for the Data windows.  • Did Bug Fixing and enhancements to the Shell System written in PowerBuilder 9.0.  • Created Ancestor windows & User objects to make use of the Object Oriented Capabilities of PowerBuilder.  • Used Custom Data Utility to do Bulk Data loads into Production Databases.  Environment: PowerBuilder 9.0, Visual Basic 6.0, Sybase 12.0, DB Artisan PFC MEDICINE L.L.C - Indianapolis, IN February 2004 to July 2006 Indianapolis, IN    Caretrak(TM) is a complete health care improvement system combining the proven effectiveness of disease management with technology to give medical professionals the tools they need to address today's complex patient conditions. Caretrak utilizes unique data tracking and monitoring capabilities to monitor patient progress towards goal, compliance, and adverse events. It also offers clinical decision support and allows for comprehensive report generation.  • Made various modifications and bug fixes to the Caretrak System.  • Used the various PFC services such as Sorting, Filtering, Multitable update, Find and Replace, Linkage service etc.  • Optimized SQL queries in Datawindows and Stored Procedures to improve response time and performance.  • Designed new ancestor Userobjects for reusing business rules and modified the existing systems to be more Object Oriented.  • Developed new reports, made front-end builds and was involved in the implementation of CareTrak v4.0 at different Client sites.  • Did production support to resolve Front end and Database related issues.  • Created Stored Procedures, Functions & Triggers using PL/SQL.  • Was involved in writing a module in C# using WinForms  Environment: PowerBuilder 9.0, PFC, Oracle 9i, C#, Winforms, Visual Studio Education Bachelor's