Web Systems Architect Web Systems Architect Alden, MI Work Experience Web Systems Architect ej - East Jordan, MI May 2017 to Present Primary responsibility is developing and maintaining the web site and other web systems at ej. This includes managing a website re-write including a re-design. This project had been dragging and the previous team had left the company. Technologies involved are   • Websphere Commerce 7.8  • dotCMS 3.6  • Apache  • Salesforce    I was able to take the project, learn the requirements, develop the website with third party vendors and launch the re-design in one year. Some of the improvements include:  • Speed of searching and page loading  • Responsive design  • Linking to our Salesforce organization with live data  • Apply UI/UX improvements based on the design spec  • Build solutions to help Marketing promote their campaigns    The site is written in Velocity templating language and javascript with jQuery. Java is also used as an OSGi plugin to communicate with Websphere and Salesforce.    Other responsibilities include updating our web systems to latest version of Tomcat and Apache, re-writing a dataloader for Websphere to pull product information from Salesforce, and provide architectural guidance to the business on how to satisfy web needs in both the website and internal web applications. Programmer / Analyst ej - East Jordan, MI October 2013 to April 2017 Primary responsibility included developing a data collection and conversion application for taking manufacturing data and converting it to Infor M3 ERP acceptable data. This required heavy analysis of legacy systems (AS400, Axapta, Mainsaver, B&L), deciphering their data hierarchies, and converting to the M3 ERP manufacturing software data structures. Java was used primarily for the data migration and SQL was used for the analysis along with Excel. This project spanned the entire 2013 to 2017 duration. It was successful, ej was able to leverage the converted data heavily in the new system and begin manufacturing.    Other responsibilities included building small web apps with Java EE (Tomcat), Javascript with jQuery and Bootstrap that satisfied business needs. An example is an application that demonstrated responsive design and allowed users to modify product attribute data from a simple web app with basic CRUD operations. Another project included building a SOLR core over a dataset and making a simple application to query the dataset and download data based on what was returned (PDF links). All application were built with RESTful web service design.    Finally, analysis of data with SQL was required as well as setting up meetings and discussions with business users to explain what was in the databases, how we can use it and what also needs to be changed about it. Software Engineer Braxton Technologies, LLC - Colorado Springs, CO June 2011 to September 2013 SANDIA  I am currently working for a Sandia National Labs project under Braxton Technologies. Current responsibility include developing data driven web forms using DUST, Javascript, jQuery and JSON along with a specialized CSS library. We use the MVC paradigm for transferring data to and from the website, out to other services. Past responsibilities include providing throughput of XMPP stanzas from a proxy client to a real XMPP server using Java software leveraging ServiceMix, Camel, and SOAP technologies. Camel is used to provide transport of SOAP objects which are encoded and decoded. Communication is duplex and requires very active and responsiveness on both sides. Other duties include working with other developers offsite and properly maintaining the software with the potential pitfalls of remote development.    OCX  Worked with Raytheon on satellite simulation software under the OCX project contract. Duties include developing C++ applications with the Qt GUI toolkit and ICE communications that grant the user a seamless user experience with networked systems. BOOST library is leveraged using both its containers and smart pointers. Current main project is an application that is in its early stages of development. The application is responsible for reading and validating XML files, processing user actions from the GUI and sending network requests to other systems which invoke separate application, also developed by Braxton. Finally, communication is maintained with the external systems and the application via the Client/Server model. All development is under the Linux (Red Hat Enterprise 5.4) environment. Separate duties include minor maintenance of nightly builds of Braxton applications as well as integration into a closed lab environment for test purposes using Microsoft Visual Build Pro and CruiseControl.NET. Software Engineer Raytheon Information Solutions - Colorado Springs, CO September 2007 to May 2011 Worked for the Department of Defense, contracted under the company Raytheon Information Solutions, a subset of Raytheon. Duties include developing C++ applications to solve problems in missile threat development. The main project is a graphical simulation that uses OpenScenGraph, a technology built on OpenGL, to process large amounts of data and give the user a visual representation of the data via an animation as well as visual methods to build the threats within the Graphical User Interface. 3-Dimensional math, optimization under OpenSceneGraph for speed and efficiency of the simulation, and GUI development using the FOX(Free Objects for X) library which allows the user to handle such a large application across multiple platforms are used within this project. Other skills used are UNIX development as the simulation is built in Windows, Linux, and SUN and strong use of Object Oriented Programming. Other duties include project management utilizing JIRA, design using Microsoft Visio, and basic UML. Frequently had to write requirements and design documents that satisfy customer needs. Often had to switch gears to different projects, some not related to project development. Due to the nature of this military related position, often had to build solutions under strict requirements quickly and efficiently and often under pressure.    Worked on an ongoing project for BMDS called I-Sim (International Simulator) which is an unclassified threat simulation software package. Main duty was converting to OSG objects and primitives by taking an in house C++ OSG Layer and connecting it to our application which was in C#. Technology used was C++/CLI. Implemented a seamless layer to convert OSG data objects to C# for the GUI layer to take advantage of. Software Developer Delaney Software Services - Colorado Springs, CO January 2006 to August 2007 on a multitude of projects of varying scale. These include C#/VB.NET/ASP.NET/MSSQL and PHP/MySQL applications. Responsibilities include writing proposal documents, design, implement, test and deploy these projects, while also maintaining good communication with the client and fixing any bugs as quickly and effectively as possible. Worked with n-tiered application architecture, Developer Express control suites including Xtra Grid and Xtra Reports and Microsoft Enterprise Architecture. Used serialization to convert Business Objects to XML and back, for server/outside application processing. Internship Continental Teves - Auburn Hills, MI May 2005 to December 2005 Updated the existing database system to meet modern times. Duties included writing a new Graphical User Interface using C#/ASP.net technology and updating the existing database to Microsoft SQL 2000. Other tasks included basic website design to perform specific queries to the new database. Continental Teves May 2005 to September 2005 2005  Lake Superior State University Sault Sainte. Marie, MI  Wrote MATLAB code to characterize ROV motors with detailed documentation. Designed communications test with MATLAB, and did troubleshooting of motor controller circuit boards. Worked in team environment, wrote proposal and gave professional presentations. Education Computer Engineering Lake Superior State University - Sault Ste. Marie, MI December 2005 Skills C++ (5 years), Java (7 years), Javascript (5 years), HTML/HTML5 (7 years), CSS (7 years), C# (3 years), Asp.Net (2 years), Windows (10+ years), Linux (8 years), Object Oriented Programming (10+ years), git (2 years), SVN (10+ years) Additional Information Skills  -Practical use of C++/OpenSceneGraph, ASP.NET, C#/VB.NET, XML and SQL.  -Practical experience using the C++ STL  -Practical experience using the FOX library for GUI development for multiple platforms  -Practical experience using the Qt GUI library  -Practical experience with C++ BOOST  -Practical experience using Java and JAXB  -Practical experience with Javascript and jQuery  -Experience in N-tiered Application Architecture  -Experience with heavy OO design    -Experience with Developer Express Controls and Microsoft Enterprise Architecture  -Good knowledge of UNIX environments.  -Familiar with UNIX development including Makefiles and gcc/g++  -Experience with MS PowerPoint/Word/Excel/Access/Visio  -Familiar with Surround SCM source control  -Familiar with JIRA and Fogbugz for bug tracking  -Familiar with Subversion and Mercurial source control  -Familiar with SoapUI and harnessing the power of WSDLs for fast web form testing.