Director Software Development Operations Director <span class="hl">Software</span> Development Operations Director Software Development Operations - NCR Hurst, TX Work Experience Director Software Development Operations NCR 2018 to Present Leading the NCR's largest software development team in three development offices. A team of 95 people with 12 different products. Responsible for budget, hiring, and all technical decisions - Able to meet with C-level executives of customers, an d NCR and work with junior developers to get the code done on time and on budget. NCR 2005 to Present Working in a job with increasing responsibilities in software development. Director Software Development Integrations NCR 2017 to 2018 Managing a cross functional team for instore cloud/connected payments, and also POS Software Integration, Development, Deployment, and maintenance  Responsible for High Stake customer SAT projects for NCR hospitality division.  Responsible for restructuring and reorganizing distressed software teams, and at risk software products, with measurable and verifiable improvement in customer satisfaction, software quality, and team productivity. Senior Manager Software Development NCR 2009 to 2017 Currently running a dedicated software development and maintenance team of more than 30 people in 3 different geographic locations, and releasing 7 different marketed products, for USA and international customers. Working in the following headlined key areas.    Software development/management Activities  • Responsible for development and release of seven NCR software products to existing and new customers. Converted software development process from Waterfall to Agile - Scrum based for enhancements and Kanban for defects. Broke the product silos and introduced cross product training to manage many products with overall smaller team members.  • Implemented a monthly software release schedule. Resulting in 11 monthly releases of software each year. Managed monthly release cycles, with 29 days of development and one day of code freeze.  • Quadrupled productivity of the development team over 6 years, and reduced backlogs to historic lows. Quadrupled productivity of QA team over two year and implemented processes and introduced automation tools to make further productivity gains.  • Managed the architecture and code through whole software development life cycle of NCR's flagship Aloha POS by releasing 3 branches of all products every month.  • Introduced third party tools and architected new in-house tools, in software development and problem diagnostic process.  • Worked with third-party software verification teams, including PADSS certification, and payment processor certifications.  • Created the release strategy of large enhancements spanning several months of development work within the constraints of a monthly release cycle.  • Managed4.5 million lines of code, with eighty thousand plus installations. Worked in Agile, Waterfall, and chaotic development models, with hands on code and architectural analysis and coaching of development and QA staff. Comfortable in Java, C#/.NET and C++ development languages. Reviewed code, and actively wrote code, and tested software, analyzed problems, and designed solutions whenever needed.  • Acted as technical expert and adviser for senior management for all issue related to NCR's software, its defects, compliance and security issues, customer problems, version deployment strategy, development methodologies, and architectural issues.  • Familiar with Google Cloud platform, Azure, ASP .NET, MVC-5, SQL server, postgres, Google Web Toolkit, Android development, App Engine, and related APIs.  • Managing/Maintaining and enhancing an ASP web form and MVC based software release platform www.radiantupdate.com.  Team Building Activities  • Hired a great team of software developers, QA, and Business Analysts, with low attrition rate.  • Trained and mentored the team members to help them become motivated entrepreneurs  • Created Agility and quality related performance metrics and a system to track them weekly.Customer Management Activities  • Worked directly with several critical customers with low NPS, and helped create stability plan, provided them software fixes and enhancements and helped them deploy to hundreds of sites to make them raving fans.  • Acted as the main point of contact for software development department, on all hot deals to deliver changes in software on time with low defects.  • Worked with sales teams to define customer needs, in line with industry trends and, prioritized customer requests, Modified product architecture, and changed product for both the current customers and long term market penetration and support.  • Reviewed partnership agreements and technical feasibility of projects with other NCR product teams, and third party software providers, API consumers, resellers, and support teams, to increase adaptability and customization of Aloha POS.  • Achieved one day turnaround for customer reported defects. Created hot fixes and diagnostic releases. Created test and deployment strategies for some top restaurant brands of United States.  • Worked with customer support teams to target development work for specific customers to increase customer satisfaction scores of the organization    Previously held positions at NCR Software Analytical tools developer NCR 2014 to 2016 Developing tools to clean up, normalize and shrink several GB of csv files containing federal contract information. This cleaned up data then becomes raw data for excel spread sheets, or tools such as Watson Analytics. Manager Software Solutions NCR 2007 to 2009 • Managed a team of on shore and off shore software developers tasked with maintaining and enhancing Aloha POS system.  • Used many Sysinternals / Microsoft and other third-party diagnostic and debugging tools such as Procmon, Regshot, VS profiler, Remote debugger, Wireshark, etc to debug and catch problems and defects at live running sites.  • Worked in C++, C# and Java and used tools such as TFS, Visual Studio, GIT, Teamcity, SourceSafe to internally manage source code.  • Created a 24 hour development shop by hiring, and training off shore software development teams in Hyderabad India and Prague, Czech Republic. Monitored the daily output of the teams, and reported to management on progress and roadblocks. Senior Software Engineer / Team Lead NCR 2005 to 2006 • Worked in different areas of product including software architecture, Core enhancement team, and strategic development teams.  • Worked as a team member to reduce the KLOC count, and reduce the number of defects to create a gold release of the software.  • Extensively used C++, and C#, and Java. Championed the use of Gamma and Fowler design patterns in the code.  • Worked on designing the security and encryption of the POS System Senior Software Developer Multimedia Games - Back office Solutions Group 2002 to 2004 • Worked in a highly regulated and secure software development environment working on design, development of a back office management and automation software.  • Completely automated Management Terminal, Applications, Services and reporting system with an SQL Server database. The software was written in C++, C#, and Microsoft SQL server. Design Engineer, Software Tools Development Motorola 1998 to 2002 Responsibilities included conceptual design, development and release of software. The work was done in, C++, ATL and MFC, Java and used several third-party tools and software. Collaboration was done with offshore teams to develop several software tools. Design Engineer, Programmable Logic Siemens 1995 to 1996 controls  • Responsibilities included: Software Designs for Siemens Programmable Logic Controllers (PLCs) and client training on Siemens, ABB and Allen Bradley PLCs. Education Masters of Business Administration in High technology business Strategy, and Business University of Texas at Austin - Austin, TX 2003 MS in Software design and development Syracuse University - Syracuse, NY 1997 Skills C#, C/c++, C++, Json, Python Links http://www.linkedin.com/pub/usman-wyne/0/635/a84