Sr. Consultant Sr. Consultant Sr. Consultant Teaneck, NJ • Over 10+years of professional experience in analysis, design, development, implementation and maintenance of various projects including multi-tier web based applications, client-server window based applications, as well as complex distributed SOA systems  • Expertise in Healthcare system with strong in experience in developing multithreaded applications  • Experienced Web based, SOAs, PL/SQL, windows based applications along with reporting tools like crystal reports. Experienced in UML designing with C#, VB.Net, WCF, MVC, Entity Framework,Web service,Windows Azure, ASP.Net 4.5 and knowledge in 4.0.  • Good Experience in Asp.net Web development frameworks using MVC2, MVC3, MVC 4.  • Strong expertise in Web Services development using WCF Web Services and Rest protocol technology.  • 8+ years of experience in Microsoft Sql Server with good expertise in Business Intelligence technologies like SSIS and SSRS.  • Knowledge on Analysis and Trading desk operations.  • Work with the development teams to produce rich enterprise class SaaS applications.  • Experienced in Design, Development, Implementation and Testing of Web Applications, Windows Applications and Client-Server in multiple Platforms.  • Experienced developing web-centric applications using HTML/DHTML, XML, JavaScript, CSS and IIS.  • Experienced multi-tier architecture development using IIS and worked in Agile methodology.  • Worked extensively with Master Pages, Server Controls, User Controls and Form validation controls.  • Experienced design and development of SQL Server and MySQL, Intersystem Cache and Oracle databases.  • Hands on experience in working with development of Stored Procedures, User Defined Functions, Queries, Indexes and Views using PL/SQL and T-SQL.  • Good knowledge of Web Services (SOAP, WSDL, UDDI)  • Experienced developing business reports using Crystal Reports and SQL Reporting Services.  • Good knowledge and experience in developing ORM based applications using Entity Framework (3.5, 4.0), nHibernate.  • Valuable team player with Excellent Communication skills, Trouble shooting skills with ability to learn and adapt to new technologies quickly.  • Worked as an IIS Admin to configure web application.  • Web configuration and deployment for SAAS platform. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Consultant Sr. Consultant - Teaneck, NJ June 2018 to Present Responsibilities  • Assisting with the business case. Planning and monitoring. Eliciting requirements. Requirements organization, translating and simplifying requirements, Requirements management and communication  • Create artifacts such as Use case, Use Case Diagrams, Activity Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams and Business Process Flows.  • Organize workshops and coordinate project stakeholders (multiple projects technical teams, Business Analysts, Customers, SMEs, and End-Users etc.)  • Capture System/business requirements (BRD/SRS) to analyze and evaluate existing or proposed systems using Object Oriented Analysis Techniques and come up with comprehensive system requirements and specifications.  • Support PMO by providing inputs on project plans and maintenance of project status based on the business needs.  • Gather data from different department and analyze and prepare report for MIS  • Involved in preparing WBS and project charter for the projects and programs  • Involved in reviewing policies and procedures.  • Meeting with stake holders.  • Created the Business Functional Requirements Document by analyzing the business  • requirements which also consisted of the Work break down structure for future development.  • Designed and implemented application with Angular 2/4, ASP.Net Web API, and Entity framework.  • Designed and implemented Angular 2 components for assigned modules.  • Used Front end development Technology HTML5, CSS#, and JavaScript leveraging the bootstrap framework and sqlfor backend.  • Utilized various JQUERY plug-in to build Rich internet Application to make it look more intuitive.  • Developed web application using JavaScript, ASP.NET MVC 5, C#, Entity Framework, SQL 2012, and Visual Studio.  • Involved in design of application framework using MVC (Model-View-Controller) Guidelines and MS Visual Studio.  • Involved in setting up Pass in Azure cloud environment.  • Extensively used TFS (Team Foundation server) for the source control.  • Developed Web Applications using ASP.NET and application logic using C#.NET.  • Implemented service oriented component layer using C#.net and WCF to decouple the user Interface with Business Layer.  • Developed Web Forms using ASP.NET and SQL Server as back end for databases.  • Creates WPF application for the user to generate the automated forms in MS-Word 2007 and also in PDF formats.  • Worked on maintaining multiple applications which were previously developed in ASP.NET, ADO.NET, XML, SOAP Web Services, Windows Services, Infragistics Toolkit controls.  • Created Views, Stored Procedures, SQL queries and implemented ADO.NET for CRUD operations on the SQL Server database.    Environment: ASP.NET MVC 3.0, Angular 2/4, Azure, C#.NET, VB.NET 6.0, ADO.NET,GIT, WCF, WPF, Web API, SQL Server 2005/2008, Telerik Controls, JSON, JavaScript, Windows Servers 2008,Entity Framework 5 AJAX Toolkit Controls, CSS, JQuery, JavaScript, HTML, XML. Lead .NET Developer Missouri Department of Mental Health - Jefferson City, MO February 2016 to May 2018 Responsibilities:  • As Technical lead responsibilities involved in architecture design, collaborating with Business users, requirement gathering, writing scope document and business needs, approximating timeline and delivery date and handling delivery.  • Designed user interface by using ASP.NET 4.0 web forms and implemented application logic using C#.NET.  • Code Management through TFS for software subversion numbering sequencing and VSS repository.  • Implement SSIS for imports process of data using ETL.  • The system is designed using 3 Tier Architecture.  • Designed UI using FusionMap XT, HTML, JavaScript, Jquery and CSS.  • Designed database structure for new features and datasets to generate the statistical data for Web Querying Tool portal.  • Used SSAS to generate Cubes for reports used in Web Querying Tool for web portal.  • Develop queries using Multidimensional Expressions (MDX) statements to retrieve specific datasets from the cubes.  • Documentation for all implemented features  • Develop complex stored procedures, T-SQL functions, Joins, triggers and views using SQL Server Management Studio.  • Created the Business Functional Requirements Document by analyzing the business requirements which also consisted of the Work break down structure for future development.  • Architectural details: N-Tier architecture with ASP.Net 4.0, C#, MS Sql Server 2008 R2 database    Environment: NET 4.0, ASP.NET, C#.net, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, SQL, XML, , Web Services, Agile, TFS. Visio, SSIS, SSRS, ODBC. Lead Programmer Analyst Healthcare Solutions - Cranford, NJ July 2014 to January 2016 New development of HIS (Healthcare Information System) as well supports for the current HIS system Worked for customer support and integration of the following Medical Bill Review,Pharmacy Benefits Management, Patient Appointment Record, Order Entry Communication. Integration web-based application used for Patient Diabetes Monitoring Control System with HIS Application.    Responsibilities:  • As Technical lead responsibilities involved architecture design, corroborating with Business Analyst, client development team, leading the development team, approximating timeline and delivery date and handling delivery.  • Designed user interface by using ASP.NET web forms and implemented application logic using C#.NET.  • Code Management through TortiseSVN for software subversion numbering sequencing and VSS repository.  • Implement MVC design pattern for new features and extended existing ones to handle the multiple views using the same enterprise model to maintain the product easily.  • Asp.net MVC3 / Razor engine was used for the development.  • Understand latest application architecture, technology, solutions, and industry trends  • Meet with Technical Leaders to identify and scope the applicative opportunities and identify risks and constraints.  • The proposed application used WPF Win-Forms, SQL Server 2005, WCF services as middle layer.  • Evaluate application and technologies views of the application development approach and identify risks.  • Provide on call support to Clients for PDMS (Patient Diabetes Monitoring Control System) as well development of new modules for the PDMS.  • Devexpress web controls were used for the development of the UI rich components.  • Was involved in the development of the controller classes and the model for this system.  • Developed the Debt Recommendation and Proposed Initial Credit Rating Recommendation web application. These are the most critical components for this system.  • The system is designed on loosely coupled architecture, where all the layers are independent to each of other. Was involved in implementing some of the View and model classes using Dependency injection using Ninject.  • Designed UI using HTML, JavaScript, Jquery and CSS.  • Used Multi-threading for availability search and availability calendar.  • ORM framework (EF4) was used in the model to query the database. Developed the database layer using the entity framework library.  • Developed different database objects for various business functionalities in Oracle 11g.  • Developed a custom printing functionality for printing the complete analyst report to a pdf form using Apache FO.  Projact 1Activities include:  • Developing and Maintaining Forms for various applications  • Organizational change requirements that impacts multiple lines of business.  • Changes to the existing forms and new forms development  • Printing Support  • Job Monitoring Support  • Focus the team on the tasks at hand or the internal and external customer requirements  • Familiarize the team with the customer needs, specifications, design targets, the development process, design standards, techniques and tools to support task performance]  • Assure that the team addresses all relevant issues within the specifications and various standards  • Ensure deliverables are prepared to satisfy the project requirements, cost and schedule  Projact2 Coordinate team logistics  • Work with functional managers and the team sponsor to obtain necessary resources to support the team's requirement  • Coordinate the review, presentation and release of design layouts, drawings, analysis and other documentation  • Coordinates meetings with the product committee, project manager and functional management to discuss project impediments, needed resources or issues/delays in completing the task  • Communicate team status, task accomplishment, and direction  • Provide status reporting of team activities against the program plan or schedule  • Keep the project manager and product committee informed of task accomplishment, issues and status  • Serve as a focal point to communicate and resolve interface and integration issues with other teams  • Escalate issues which cannot be resolved by the team  • Provide guidance to the team based on management direction    Projact 3This is written in using WCF  • Designed the WCF contracts to fetch the different reports based on the client requests.  • Developed and Provided RESTFul services using WCF to retrieve the data from Web and other devices.  • All error handling and logging was done through Nlog  • Entity framework model was used as the orm framework for database interactions.  • Coded the Wcf clients for the windows based applications.  • Coded the web client that consumes the Restful services to fetch the rating reports.  • Hosted the WCF service in IIS 7.0.  • Architectural details:3-Tier architecture with ASP.Net 3.5, C#, WCF service, Oracle database, LDAP  • for security, Log4net for logging.    Environment:NET 4.0, ASP.NET, C#.net, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, SQL, XML, , Web Services, IIS 7.0, Microsoft Enterprise Library, Agile, TDD, Visio, Oracle 11g, Devexpress., Apache FO, Xsl, Ninject Software Developer Express Scripts - St. Louis, MO August 2012 to June 2014 Responsibilities:  • Understand latest application architecture, technology, solutions, and industry trends.  • Asp.net MVC3 / Razor engine was used for the development.  • Telerikmvc extensions controls were used for the development of the UI rich components.  • The system is designed on loosely coupled architecture, where all the layers are independent to each of other. Implemented dependency injection using Microsoft Unity IOC container.  • Designed UI using HTML, JavaScript, Jquery and CSS.  • Was responsible for the development of the Admin module and Training workflow management module.  • Was responsible for the developing the logging framework. This was a generic WCF components developed to provide logging and log reports facilitating the needs for different similar projects in DOHMH.    Environment:NET 2.0, ASP.NET, C#.net, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, SQL, XML, , Web Services, IIS 7.0, Scrum, TDD, Visio, Telerik MVC extensions., Apache FO, Xsl, Microsoft Unity IOC container. Software Developer JP Morgan Chase - New York, NY September 2010 to July 2012 Responsibilities:  • Architected and developed the compliance portal using C#, Asp.net, SQL Server, Web Services.  • Designed and developed custom .NET components and user controls using ASP.NET and C#.  • Senior SQL Server developer - Developed and optimized database structures, stored procedures, views, triggers and user-defined functions using SQL server 2008.  • Developed WCF services for communication between frontend and backend servers.  • Developed user interface using HTML, CSS, and JavaScript based on requirements.  • Used multi-threading to boost performance and responsiveness of applications.  • Involved in designing and development of Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) services using Web Services/ WCF.  • Generated and Configured SSL certificates to secure WCF messages.  • Used SSIS to implement the Slowly Changing Transformation, to maintain Historical Data in Data warehouse.  • Created SSIS packages to load data into Data Warehouse using Various SSIS Tasks like Execute SQL Task, bulk insert task, data flow task, file system task, send mail task, active script task, xml task.  • Develop catastrophe risk model for analyzing and managing risks.  • Conduct Companywide studies to identify and quantify the catastrophe risk factors.  • Evaluate existing catastrophe risk models and recommend improvements.  • Serve as subject matter expert on catastrophe models to other risk analysts.  • Device modeling tools to assess catastrophe risk factors.    Environment: SQL Server 2008, Visual Studio 2008, SSIS, C#, Vb.net, HTML 3.2, Java Script, CSS, Ajax, Microsoft Enterprise library, IIS, ADO.NET, Asp.net, Xml, Xsl. Software Engineer, Team Lead Abbott Laboratories - Chicago, IL November 2008 to August 2010 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Analysis, Design and Development using UML (Class & Interaction Diagrams).  • Was involved as a developer in developing the web user interface using Asp.net and C#.  • Implemented application business logic in C# with MVP design pattern to increase unit tests support.  • Developed ASP.Net pages using ASP.NET 1.0 web form controls, Custom user Controls, HTML server controls in C#.  • Worked as Sql developer in designing and normalizing the database. Created different objects like tables, views, Stored Procedures, UDF's, indexes rules and defaults on MS SQL server.  • Involved with Transact SQL (T-SQL) Coding, writing queries, cursors, functions, views, & triggers.  • Created Complex ETL Packages using SSIS to extract data from staging tables to primary tables.  • Created logging for ETL load at package level and task level to log number of records processed by each package and each task in a package using SSIS.  • Developed, monitored and deployed SSIS packages.  • Created different reports based on the business requirements.    Environment: Visual Studio 2005, SQL Server, Asp.net, Vb.net, C#, IIS 6.0, SSIS, XSL XML, XSLT, Soap, CSS, Java Script. Education Bachelor's Skills ASP (10+ years), ASP.Net (10+ years), C# (10+ years), HTML (10+ years), MS ASP (10+ years)