Full Stack Software Engineer Full Stack <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Software Developer Portland, OR Second-career full-stack programmer with experience in both Java and Javascript and an interest in functional programming Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Full Stack Software Engineer Mainz Brady - Portland, OR July 2019 to Present Contracted to Cambia Health Solutions    • Clojure / Clojurescript migration for Regence OR / WA / UT / ID Full-Stack Software Developer TEKsystems - Portland, OR March 2018 to March 2019 Contracted to Nike Go To Market Strategy    • Built Spring Boot / Java 8 microservice to create dynamic single page tech-sheets in itext7  • Part of a team of 5 that constructed a greenfield payment application UI in React / Redux / Post CSS. Unit tests in Jest / Enzyme. Mock back end in Express.js Software Developer II Catalyte (formerly Catalyst DevWorks) - Portland, OR March 2016 to March 2018 For Cambia Health Solutions  • 3 months as an Extract-Transfer Load Developer in IBM Datastage. Integration tests with Java 8.    For HealthSparq  • Built Estimate calculator microservice in Java/Spring-Boot on top of Docker for HealthSparq Cost team.  • Cucumber integration tests, written in Ruby, on top of Docker, for Estimate calculator.  • Built PDF Generation microservice with Java 8, Spring-Boot on top of Docker for HealthSparq Customer Enhancement Requests team with team of 3. Connected microservice to AWS S3  • Developed 2 Benefit Engines in Java 8  • Add Google Analytics to Ember.js Front-End    Received commendations from HSQ Director of Engineering Northon Rodrigues for assisting with time-sensitive deployment for Blue Cross Blue Shield    For Catalyte    • Developed and presented "Write Better Code" to coworkers  • Contributed to Catalyte internal React Training Documentation CAD Application Engineer/Support Desk admin Idex Support Desk Adminstrator - Portland, OR May 2007 to March 2014 Experience in Aerospace and Automotive fields.    • Acted as main support liaison for Tesla Motors CAD division and Idex Solutions.  • Developed aerospace forgings for Weber Metals.  • Led the CATIA V5 to V6 conversion for Flow International Corp.  • Taught multiple classes of Fundamentals for CATIA as well as classes on functional modeling.   • Created and documented Idex support desk procedures and documentation. Education Bachelor's in Physics Pacific Lutheran University - Tacoma, WA September 2003 to May 2006 Electrical Engineering Milwaukee School of Engineering - Milwaukee, WI September 2002 to May 2003 Skills Javascript, Java, Node, React, Redux Certifications/Licenses Oracle Certified Associate - Java 8 SE Programmer I August 2017 to Present