Software Engineer <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Software Engineer Burbank, CA A challenging position as a Software Architect / Engineer utilizing my skills with  various technologies and knowledge of the software development process to  contribute to the enhancement and creation of software systems. Work Experience Software Engineer FotoKem Industries Inc - Burbank, CA May 2009 to September 2017 Worked on a range of MacOS and multi-platform software projects for this post  production services company as software architect and lead engineer developing  distributed, multithreaded, and high performance software systems.    • Designed and developed iPad application to allow cinematographers to download metadata, still frames, view dailies color grades, and create new  looks and notes to upload back to our asset management system. This was  developed using Objective-C++, C++ / Cocoa Touch on the iOS platform  communicating with the server using RESTful APIs. Available in the app store  as "nextLAB Frames".  • Redesigned and developed a client / server software system used to encrypt,  compress, and securely transfer files across the Internet. This multi-platform  software was developed in C++ using the Qt Framework running on MacOS,  Linux, and Windows. Implemented using RESTful APIs and a proprietary  TCP/UDP transfer protocol with a MySQL backend.  • Designed and developed a distributed machine & job management system  for machines to publish different types of RESTful web services and run jobs across the nodes in the system. The type of jobs include media transcoding,  database archiving, LTO & LTFS archiving, file uploads / downloads, file  transfers, and data syncing. This software was developed using Objective-C+  +, C++ / Cocoa, Qt Framework running as a daemon on MacOS and Linux  communicating using RESTful APIs with a MySQL backend.  • Designed and developed a client / server post production asset management  system for managing camera source media, editorial proxies, dailies proxies, and VFX pulls. Functionality includes safe ingest of original camera source  media, LTO & LTFS archiving, audio / video & 3D eye syncing, color grading,  transcoding for editorial / dailies / VFX, and integration with a variety of third- party post production systems and workflows. This software was developed  primarily as an Objective-C++, C++ / Cocoa based MacOS application with a MySQL backend.  • Designed and developed module for publishing original camera source and proxy assets into the Netflix Backlot system communicating with their web  services and uploading media using Aspera's ascp. This was developed  using C++ / Qt Framework.  • Designed and developed module for publishing MXF media into the Avid  Interplay system using their SOAP web services. This was developed using  C++ / Qt Framework.  • Designed and developed module for uploading dailies proxies and metadata  into the PIX asset management system. This was developed using  Objective-C / Cocoa.  • Designed and developed an application for managing information about movie theater digital projectors in order to generate KDMs (Key Delivery  Messages) to play CPLs (Composition Playlists) in encrypted DCPs (Digital  Cinema Packages). This software was developed as a C++ / Qt Framework  client running on MacOS, Linux, and Windows with a MySQL backend.  • Co-invented US Patent 9,418,067 "Systems and Methods for Metadata- based Workflows for Content Creation and Media Distributions". Software Architect MESoft Inc - Studio City, CA September 2002 to March 2009 Worked on a wide range of multi-tier client / server software projects for this  digital media workflow company on both the J2EE and .NET platforms as software architect and lead developer.    • Developed Windows component to transcode Avid OMF media to Apple  QuickTime and Windows Media using C++ / C#.  • Designed and developed a story editing application to allow users in the reality TV space to search logged material and string together rough cuts of  episodes and story lines. This product was developed on the .NET platform  using primarily C# communicating with our asset management server using a combination of web services and .NET Remoting.  • Designed and developed a logging client for the reality TV space to allow  users to log & transcribe OMF media. This product was built on top of our  Java based digital asset management system.  • Designed and developed a distributed workflow and machine management  system for managing and scheduling multiple processes and workflows across our asset management system. This system allowed users to perform  various activities such as capture live video, transcode media, chop digital  dailies, and transfer / synchronize media between different digital media  systems. This product was developed on the .NET platform using primarily  C# and a combination of web services and .NET Remoting.  • Designed Set-top box application on the .NET platform for playing video  content from our Digital Asset Management system on televisions using a remote control.  • Designed and developed file transfer technology to rapidly and reliably  transfer large media files over WAN topologies using HTTP or TCP.  • Designed and developed components using C++ for playing media in Avid  OMF, Apple QuickTime, and Windows Media formats on the .NET platform  using DirectShow and an ActiveX control, and the Java platform using JNI.  • Designed video capture / encoder application on the .NET platform to capture uncompressed video, transcode to various video formats, provide  deck control, and transfer / ingest video output into our digital asset  management system.  • Designed and developed J2EE based Digital Asset Management system  using a Java Swing GUI client, XML, Java Servlets, MS SQL Server and Oracle.  • Designed and developed GPS tracking application for the Microsoft Pocket  PC 2002 platform using Visual C++ Embedded. Software Developer WhyRunOut.com - Aliso Viejo, CA August 2001 to June 2002 Worked as a private contractor on various projects for this privately funded retail  convenient store chain and online grocery delivery service, utilizing tools such as Visual Studio 6.0 / .NET and SQL Server 2000 on a Windows 2000 platform.    • Designed and developed system to calculate customer delivery routes and time slot availability using SQL Server 2000 and Visual Basic COM+  Components.  • Created web application to import and analyze data from a third-party  employee time-clock system using ASP, a Visual Basic ActiveX control, and SQL Server 2000.  • Created application to port data from legacy system to SQL Server 2000  using Visual Basic 6.0.  • Designed and developed three-tier client/server application to run retail  convenient store chain including functionality such as inventory  management, point of sales, and customer maintenance using Visual  Basic .NET and SQL Server 2000.  • Designed and developed multi-threaded component with Visual C++ .NET to provide an interface to a serial barcode scanner.  • Designed and developed a Windows service with Visual C# .NET using  MSMQ to provide a printing service for spooling print jobs to network printers. Skills Uml, MYSQL, Objective-C, C++, C#, Java, MacOS, iOS, Linux, Windows, Qt, Cocoa, Cocoa Touch, .NET, J2EE, SQL, TCP, HTML, XML, JSON, Web Services