Data Engineer Data Engineer Data Engineer - CitiusTech Inc Gilroy, CA Work Experience Data Engineer CitiusTech Inc February 2019 to Present • Develop, construct and maintain data pipelines in Netezza Datalabs to get the Medical Claims data for the Revenue Operations (ROPS) project for DaVita.  • Assist Data Scientists to build predictive models to predict collectible receipts and prioritize claims to maximize cash collections and increase number of claims that could be worked upon by efficient grouping of claims  • Data Acquisition of the transactional claims level data and perform data analysis to get meaningful data trends to assist Data Science modelling  • Write complex SQL scripts for data acquisition. Perform flattening of long data sets and perform feature engineering on Claims data.  • Build rules based on models using SPSS Modeler and complex SQL scripts to identify patients who are potential hypo-responders to increased Epogen drug dosage.  • Work closely with Data Scientists on the Leadership Capacity project to build models for effective usage for FA's (Facilities Admins) across multiple clinics.  • Build BI reports to assist VP's in making critical business decisions and display effectiveness and performance of the AI model Solution Architect CitiusTech Inc February 2017 to January 2019 • Design the logical & physical Data Model and the ETL Architecture for Healthcare Medical & Pharmacy Claims for Davita Medical Group. This includes regular feed of the data, appropriate data cleansing & profiling and normalizing it into a Conformed Model across all the healthcare markets.  • Design & Develop ETL processes in Informatica and SSIS using ER Studio as the Data Modeling Tool and creating database designs. Extensive experience working on IBM UDMH (Unified Data Model for Healthcare) primarily involving Claims Model  • Optimize SQL queries for performance boost. Review legacy SQL scripts and enhance them to improvise performance. Write complex SQL scripts to perform critical and complex business tasks.  • Coach project ETL specialists on data acquisition techniques, decision rules and methods to apply them. Planning and Execution of the projects and help Team structure the work.  • Review project estimation and assist the Management with project planning pertaining to CA and National Data Warehouse. Worked closely with the end users to define and prioritize upcoming Data Warehouse initiatives. Help manage project scope, schedule, status and documentation.  • Created strong relationships with key decision makers as trusted consultant of the CA & National Data Warehouse Teams.  • Ensure highest level of code quality adhering to the standards. Performance optimization of the legacy processes to meet all SLAs.  • Apply Healthcare experience and knowledge for appropriate data profiling and making ETL business rules. Technical Account Manager Syntel Inc June 2015 to January 2017 • ETL & BI Tech Manager for Syntel Inc. serving Healthcare clients like Hospital Corporation of America and Parallon Healthcare Solutions.  • Manage a team of 35+ resources working across multiple Healthcare projects in the RCM space involving ETL Technologies like SSIS, Informatica and BI Technologies like SSRS, Crystal Reports, ArcPlan, MicroStrategy and legacy projects in Mainframe. Manage the Development, QA and Application Support Teams ensuring highest quality of deliverables following all SDLC standards.  • Responsibilities include activities like Release Management, Maintenance planning and scheduling, ensuring the code delivery as per the project plan, perform code quality check, customer satisfaction survey, etc.  • Closely work with Systems like Healthcare Patient Accounting and Revenue Cycle Management  • Review the Technical Design of the ETL processes and BI Architecture for projects like Outpatient Claims Warehouse and Revenue Cycle Dashboard. Assist the Team with Data Modeling techniques and overall design of the Data Warehouse Architecture.  • Assist the Business with defining the Project scope and reviewing the overall estimation. Prepare SOWs and RFPs for new initiatives. Maintain client relationships and work towards growing the account for Syntel. Test Lead Syntel Inc October 2013 to May 2015 • Test Lead for Syntel Inc. in the Banking & Finance sector serving clients like State Street Bank and Trust Company.  • Lead the Onshore & Offshore Testing Teams. Ensure smooth transition of work between teams and run a smooth 24/5 testing shop.  • Lead the Testing Team in implementation of Basel III Banking Regulations. Work closely with the source systems such as ALGO, STARS, PSTARS, SLD/SPD, etc.  • Create SOWs, Test strategy, and Test Plans and get the approvals from the Business Project manager.  • Attend the Technical review sessions of functional specs and provide inputs from a QA perspective. Involved in daily check point meeting of all the projects and ensure that issues are resolved in timely fashion.  • Work closely with the end users and ensure that all the data needs are in place before the BUAT testing commence.  • Write complex SQL scripts for the DB testing for the end users.  • Prepare weekly status reports and defects reports for the customer and help Team devise Testing Strategy, Risk Mitigation and Defect handling plans.  • Defects escalation and follow up on the same in the Triage calls and single POC for the Test team. Tech Lead & Software Developer Syntel Inc September 2007 to September 2013 • Lead the ETL, Data Warehouse and Mainframe Development for Syntel Inc. serving the Healthcare client HCA (Hospital Corporation of America) involving 7 Onshore team members and assist a 15 member team at Offshore.  • Lead & Managed projects related to Revenue Cycle Management including projects like PA Base Engagement, 4010-5010 & ICD 9-10 Conversion, ClearContracts, PA Modernization, etc.  • Perform software development for projects involving ETL & BI Technologies like SSIS, Informatica, ArcPlan, Crystal Reports, MicroStrategy and Mainframe projects involving COBOL, DB2, JCL and CICS.  • Assist the Mainframe Support & Operations Team in providing system support for batch processes between onshore & offshore teams ensuring 24/7 running of batch processes.  • Lead the Patient Accounting Modernization Initiative involving upgrading of CICS screens and migrating them into .NET screens. Review performance of batch systems and optimization to reduce the execution cycle and meet critical SLAs. Software Developer Syntel Inc August 2005 to August 2007 • Mainframe developer for Syntel Inc. serving Healthcare clients. Technologies involved COBOL, DB2, JCL, CICS, ChangeMan, etc.  • Development of Mainframe COBOL programs and JCL batch jobs for the Billing & Receivables systems under Revenue Cycle Management.  • Scheduling of Mainframe Batch Jobs and Performance optimization of the batch systems to meet critical batch SLAs.  • Development of DB2 SQL scripts involving DB2 plans and procedures.  • Development of projects like UB04 Billing, Unit Number Expansion, Billing & Receivables Transaction Edits & Updates, etc.  • Peer code reviews and assist QA Team in review of test strategy in pertaining to the scope of the project.  • Discussions with the Client and Onshore Teams to review the requirements and delivery & deployment of code. Education Bachelor's in Computer Science & Advanced DBMS Mumbai University - Mumbai, Maharashtra May 2001 to May 2005 Skills Db2, Etl, Informatica, Data modeling, Sql server, Sql server 2005, Oracle, Pl/sql, Sql, Sharepoint, Ssrs, Microstrategy, Tableau, Cics, Data warehousing, Bmc, Cobol, Mainframe, Er studio, Arcplan Certifications/Licenses Python May 2019 to Present Additional Information Summary of Technical Skills    ETL/Data Warehousing: SQL Server 2005/2008/2012 (Microsoft Certified Professional), Oracle 9i/10g, DB2, DTS & SSIS, Informatica, PL/SQL, Netezza, Composite, Aginity Workbench    Data Modeling: ER Studio, IBM UDMH Model, IBM SPSS Modeler    Business Intelligence: SSRS, SSAS, Tableau, ArcPlan (Certified), MicroStrategy, Crystal Reports    Programming: Python, COBOL, C/C++, VB, ASP, C#    Mainframe: DB2, JCL, CICS, Vision Results, Savrs, Changeman    Tools/DevOps: JIRA, ServiceNow, BMC Remedy, Quality Centre, Sharepoint, Active Batch, Autosys, Visual Studio 2008, Informatica Power Centre V10.1, Confluence, Bitbucket    Domain Expertise: Healthcare, Provider Revenue Cycle Management, Claims Model, Patient Accounting, Billing & Receivables, etc.