Software Engineer Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Engineer Developer Ojai, CA Work Experience Software Engineer Developer 3rd Brain - Ojai, CA April 2014 to Present Manage all aspects of strategic IT planning, implementation, and support worldwide as an integral component of business plan. Direct all HTML 5 and WebGL development in an efficient manner; oversee artistic productions. A multitasking professional, serve as Developer and Artist / Animator. Senior Software Engineer Sony Electronics - San Diego, CA December 2017 to May 2018 Software and Web application Developer, and Artist / Animator South By SouthWest 2018 to 2018 2018; including the oversight of design and artistic production. Applied various skillsets as a multitasking professional, Software and Web application Developer, and Artist / Animator. Technical Artist Pure Imagination - Encino, CA September 2013 to May 2014 • Created a new production pipeline by skillfully using real time production tools such as motion capture, and worked with Epic games on integrating their new development environment Unreal Engine 4 into the pipeline as a main pre-visualization and production tool.  • Built most assets and delivered cinematic & physical simulation control systems for a Batman Theme Park Attraction. Animatronics Systems Engineer Weta Workshop - Wellington City, Wellington August 2011 to November 2011 New Zealand  Expertly and efficiently designed all master control systems for the hero goblin characters. Technical Supervisor Blue Man Productions - New York, NY January 2009 to May 2011 New York  • Developed and engineered new and proprietary hardware and software for use in new productions.  • Served as a Technical Supervisor for the development of new productions, technology, and properties.  • Assembled consultants, contracted vendors, and headed members in the development & integration of new technologies for production specific shows by working with creators & original Blue Man Group. Pipeline Engineer Prommitr Film Studios - Bangkok, TH January 2009 to December 2009 Thailand  • Led review of the animation pipeline and implemented technical & functional improvements in the preparation of "King Naresuan" film, which is the third film in a trilogy directed by Chatrichalerm Yukol.  • Built proprietary software to automate many elements of motion capture and motion edit pipeline.  • Led review of the animation pipeline and implemented technical & functional improvements in the preparation of "King Naresuan" film, which is the third film in a trilogy directed by Chatrichalerm Yukol. Software Developer THQ - Phoenix, AZ June 2005 to March 2008 • Developed in house proprietary applications for adaptive motion data tracking and retargeting.  • Updated compatibility and file support for the latest versions of Maya, Motion Builder, and 3DSMax.  • Technical consultant and Supervisor on the update of motion tracking tools and software to support adaptive automated batch motion tracking for EVaRT and other skeleton IK solving tools. Motion Capture Supervisor / Motion Edit Supervisor Weta Digital - Wellington City, Wellington June 2003 to December 2005 New Zealand  • Designed the motion capture stage and system, and the animation pipeline to incorporate motion capture into the films.  • Supervised all motion capture shoots, scheduled talent, stunts, etc. Motion Capture Supervisor / Software Developer Spectrum Studios - Marina del Rey, CA May 1999 to September 2002 • Designed, built, and staffed a state of the art premiere Motion Capture and animation studio and stages.  • Designed and built the first ever 32 camera motion capture stage, and which was capable of capturing motions at 480 hz which was required for delivering the animation and stunt work.  • Led two teams of artists and technicians to capture all facial animation for all principal actors at Fox studios in Sydney AU, having designed a unique facial capture system (first of it's kind to allow extreme body motion and reliably capture and track facial animation with little tracking and cleanup.) Education Biology Eckerd College - Saint Petersburg, FL Skills C++, Javascript, Php, Android, Jquery, Git, CSS, HTML 5 Additional Information Skills  WebGL Excellent    Javascript Very Good    C Good    C++ Average    PHP Average