Software Engineer IV <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer IV Software Engineer IV - LLC and Optimal Solutions and Technologies Finleyville, PA Goal-focused and analytical Software Engineer with strong design and integration problem solving skills. Experienced in application design, development, and support using multiple languages and frameworks, as well as database design, analysis, and administration. Key technical skills include:    • C#, ASP.NET, SQL, LINQ to SQL  • Entity Framework, MVC, VBScript, XML  • SharePoint 2010  • SQL Server Enterprise Work Experience Software Engineer IV LLC and Optimal Solutions and Technologies - Pittsburgh, PA 2012 to Present Pittsburgh, PA  Department of Energy Contractor for the National Energy Technology Laboratory  Software Engineer IV 2012 - Present    • Maintained various console/web applications in C# using Visual Studio 2015/TFS.  • Modified SQL packages and procedures to support program changes.  • Created custom web-parts for SharePoint 2010 pages using C# and LINQ to SQL.  • Created Environmental Status Indicator Tool (ESIT) application, which displays a visual representation of the current environment status and allows users to view issue information.  • Created maintenance plans and SQL Server jobs for backup and recovery operations.  • Enabled and configured transaction replication for database synchronization.  • Implemented a centralized highly available SQL Server Enterprise environment; managed database migrations from standalone servers into the enterprise environment. Application Developer II HIGHMARK, INC - Pittsburgh, PA 2008 to 2012 • Gathered requirements, designed and programmed the SmartClient application in C#. This application is used for claims entry by the claims department and includes a claims dashboard as well as image manipulation functionality.  • Gathered requirements, designed and programmed the Edoc Fax application in C#. This application includes functionality for sorting and delivery of faxes, a fax reporting dashboard, and the ability to notify recipients via email.  • Responsible for programming and maintaining the CATS Direct Pay website with ASP.Net and C#.  • Maintained/updated multiple websites used by internal users.  • Trained internal customers on application functionality.  • Monitored and resolved issues with DTS/SSIS packages used for data synchronization in SQL Server 2000/2005.  • Created SQL queries and reporting structures for the web-based Ad-Hoc reporting system for auditing and compliance purposes. Application Developer FINANCIAL DIMENSION, INC - Pittsburgh, PA 2006 to 2008 • Gathered requirements, designed, and developed Vendor Management/Appraisal systems in C#.  • Designed the SQL Server 2005 databases (tables, views and stored procedures) for both systems.  • Designed and programmed the main screen for the Order Entry system in C#.  • Trained internal customers on application functionality.  • Created bulk insert/data load application to expedite entry of Vendor Management data. Application Developer ADROIT AUTOMATION - Tucson, AZ August 2005 to December 2005 • Modified software written in Delphi to increase functionality and improve customer satisfaction.  • Initiated software conversion from Delphi to Visual Basic 6.0 and created user interfaces.  • Provided support to existing customer base. Application Developer EDUCATIONAL COMPUTER SYSTEMS, INC - Pittsburgh, PA 2004 to 2005 • Created web interfaces for corporate website used by student borrowers to enable more efficient ways to access and managing their account information.  • Developed code that drove back-end processing for corporate website, which was performed by a COBOL program with embedded HTML. Education Master of Science in Internet Information Systems Robert Morris University - Moon, PA Bachelor of Science in Computer Information Systems Robert Morris University - Moon, PA