SQL/ SSIS/ SSRS/ ETL Developer SQL/ SSIS/ SSRS/ ETL <span class="hl">Developer</span> SQL/ SSIS/ SSRS/ ETL Developer - Gilead Sciences Work Experience SQL/ SSIS/ SSRS/ ETL Developer Gilead Sciences - Foster City, CA April 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in requirements gathering, analysis, design, development and implementation of various applications on MS SQL Server.  • Good Knowledge of ETL Processes such source, mapping, transformation, staging areas and created various ETL documents such as ETL Mapping documents.  • Worked extensively through agile development methodology by dividing the application into iterations.  • Strong understanding of source to target mappings, used to build SQL tables and stored procedures.  • Created complex functions and stored procedures using the multi part identifiers, multi joins and T-SQL that support both OLAP and OLTP applications.  • Implemented Event Handlers, Package Configurations, Logging, System and User-defined Variables, Check Points and Expressions for SSIS/ ETL Packages.  • Executed SQL conversion pre-validation and post-validation scripts to avoid data loss and to make sure that the Count, redemption amount for each source matches the data loaded in EDW.  • Developed stored procedures that generates header and detail files for different business processes.  • Developed ETL package with different data sources (SQL Server, Flat Files, Excel Source files, etc.) and loaded the data into target tables by performing different kinds of transformations using SQL Server Integration Services.  • Performed SSIS tasks such as Slowly Changing Dimension, Conditional Split, Derived Column etc which did Data Scrubbing, including data validation checks before loading data.  • Experience in Designing and Implementing Data Warehouse applications, mainly Transformation processes using ETL tool also actively involved in Database Querying, Data Analysis, Production support.  • Good understanding of SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS) with Report authoring, Report management, Report delivery and Report security.  • Upgraded Excel reports to SSRS reports. Configured and deployed SSRS reports onto Report Server.  • Experience in writing parameterized queries for generating tabular reports Drill down, Drill Trough, Cascading, matrix chart, snap-shot reports Formatting report layout, sub reports, using Global Variables, Expressions, sorting the data, defining data source and subtotals for the reports using SSRS.    Environment: Microsoft SQL Server 2017 Enterprise Edition, MS Access, ETL Packages (SSIS), VB.Net, Visual Studio, Team Foundation Server (TFS), Micro Strategy 9.2.1, T-SQL, MS Visual Studio 2017, IBM System I navigator 2009, IBM Client Access. SQL / ETL/ SSIS Developer First Recovery Group - Detroit, MI January 2017 to March 2018 Responsibilities:  • Involved in building the ETL architecture and Source to Target mapping to load into Data warehouse.  • Created mapping documents to outline data flow from sources to targets.  • SQL performance tuning by modifying SQL or adding/changing indexes.  • Scheduling the sessions to extract, transform and load data into warehouse database depending on the business requirements.  • Responsible for Unit testing of mappings and workflows.  • Extensively used ETL to load data from Oracle database, Flat files to Data Warehouse.  • Wrote SQL Queries, Triggers and Shell Scripts to apply and maintain the Business Rules.  • Extracted data from different data sources - Oracle, Access databases and Excel spreadsheets, transformed and mapped non-standard data to standard codes for data integrity and loaded the target Oracle warehouse database  • Developed mapping parameters and variables to support SQL override.  • Created mapplets to use them in different mappings.  • Developed mappings to load into staging tables and then to Dimensions and Facts.  • Created sessions, configured workflows to extract data from various sources, transformed data, and loading into data warehouse.  • Prepared migration document to move the mappings from development to testing and then to production repositories.  • Involved in meetings with Business System Analysts to understand the functionality and prepared ETL Technical Specifications.  • Designing mappings according to the mapping standards, naming standards for future application development.  • Created Summary and Drill down reports for various attributes based on their hierarchies.  • Worked on Documents in Grid and Graph mode by using Micro Strategy Report services.  • Most of transformations were used like the Source Qualifier, Aggregator, Expression, Lookup, Router, Normalizer, Filter, Update Strategy, SQL, UNION, and Joiner transformations etc.  • Used Workflow manager for Creating, Validating, Testing and running the sequential and concurrent Batches and Sessions.  • Interacted with users with SQL Queries and troubleshooting for their reports.  • Involved in data loads and fixing the Issues in all the environments.    Environment: Oracle 11g, SQL Server, PL/SQL, SQL*Plus, XML, Putty, SVN, Windows XP Professional, FTP, MS-Excel, MS-Access. SQL/BI Developer Microsoft - Redmond, WA June 2016 to December 2016 Responsibilities:  • Created SSIS packages to clean and load data to data warehouse and package to transfer data between OLTP and OLAP databases.  • Created SSIS Packages using Pivot Transformation, Fuzzy Lookup, Derived Columns, Condition Split, Term extraction, Aggregate, Execute SQL Task, Data Flow Task, Execute Package Task etc to generate underlying data for the reports and to export cleaned data from Excel Spreadsheets, Text file, MS Access and CSV files to data ware house.  • Extracted data from XML to SQL server.  • Created SSIS packages for data Importing, Cleansing, and Parsing etc. Extracted, cleaned and validated.  • Created complex queries to automate data profiling process needed to define the structure of the pre-staging and staging area.  • Scheduled Cube Processing from Staging Database Tables using SQL Server Agent.  • Generated reports using SQL Server Reporting Services 2005/2008 from OLTP and OLAP data sources.  • Designed and deployed reports with Drill Down, Drill Through and Drop-down menu option and Parameterized and Linked reports.  • Deploying and scheduling Reports using SSRS to generate all daily, weekly, monthly and quarterly Reports including current status.  • Created several materialized views and UDF's to be accessed by the new front-end applications.  • Used Execution Plan, SQL Profiler and Database Engine Tuning Advisor to optimize queries and enhance the performance of databases  • Optimized the performance of various SQL scripts, stored procedures and triggers by using embedded UDFs, CTEs and System stored procedures.  • Successfully tested all task in staging and stored all versions of data using team foundation server (TFS).    Environment: SQL Server 2005/2008 Enterprise Edition, .Net 3.5, SQL BI Suite (SSAS, SSIS, SSRS), T-SQL, Enterprise manager, PPS, XML, MS PowerPoint, MS Project, MS Access 2003 & Windows Server 2003, Oracle, Share Point, MOSS 2007, OLTP, OLAP. Software Developer Cambridge Technology Enterprises - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2014 to November 2015 Roles and Responsibilities:  • Responsible for creation and maintenance of tables, indexes, stored procedures, triggers, and UDF's.  • Debugging of stored procedures, Indexes, Triggers, Views, User Defined Functions and Cursors.  • Tuned Poor performing SQL Queries with SQL Profiler Trace and Query Analyzer  • Formulated and documented ETL process design based on business requirements and system specifications including source to target mappings, data dictionaries and transformations.  • Responsible for the Extraction, Transformation and Loading of data from Multiple Sources to Data Warehouse.  • Used DTS/ SSIS for ETL processes, SSRS for Reporting needs and SSAS for Analytics reporting including SharePoint integration.  • Used various script tasks, look up transformations, control flow tasks like FTP, bulk insert task, transfer job task etc. and different data flow tasks using T- SQL and Visual Basic (VB) scripts.  • Created and scheduled SSIS packages to pull data from SQL Server database and export the data to various data sources like excel spreadsheets, flat file etc. and vice versa  • Created SSIS Packages using the concepts of incremental loading and slowly changing dimensions  • Worked on performance tuning of SSIS packages using error handling, event handling, re-running of failed SSIS packages using checkpoints.  • Generated Custom ETL scripts using SSIS and unit test SSIS load processes for performance check.  • Designed OLAP cubes with star schema and multiple partitions using SSAS.  • Involved in writing MDX queries and performance optimization of the SSAS cubes for calculated members and measure groups.  • Created Rich dashboards using Tableau Dashboard and prepared user stories to create compelling dashboards to deliver actionable insights.  • Designed some graphical reports using R studio for the Business Users.  • Created Parameterized, Cross-Tab, Drill Down & Drill Through reports by using SSRS.  • Created report models for the ad-hoc reporting of the end users using Report Builder.  • Deployed SSRS reports in share point for web-based access for multiple end users.  • Documented all the migration process documents for future reference.  • Successfully tested all task in staging and stored all versions of data using team foundation server (TFS).  • Responsible for developing processes, automation of maintenance jobs, tuning SQL Server, locks and index configurations, administering SQL Server security, SQL Server automatic e-mail notification and SQL Server backup strategy and automation.  Environment: SQL Server 2012/2014 Enterprise Edition , T-SQL, .Net , SQL BI Suite (SSAS, SSIS, SSRS), R Studio ,OLTP, OLAP, Enterprise manager, PPS, XML, MS PowerPoint, Tableau, MS Access & Windows Server , Oracle, Crystal Reports, Cogon's, Business Objects, SharePoint, MOSS Skills DATABASE, SQL SERVER, SQL SERVER 2012, ORACLE, POSTGRES, SQL, COGNOS, INFORMATICA, SSRS, TABLEAU, ETL, MICROSOFT VISUAL STUDIO, VISUAL STUDIO, C#, DESIGN PATTERNS, Git, REPORTING TOOLS, VB.NET, VISIO, FTP Additional Information Technical Skills:    Languages C#, VB.NET, SQL, Java  Database SQL Server 2012/10/08/05/R2, SQL Server Management Studio, Postgres, Oracle, Amazon Red Shift.  Methodologies Agile, Scrum, SOA, OOPS.  ETL Tool SSIS, Informatica, Alteryx  Operating System Windows, Linux  Reporting Tools SQL Reporting Services 2003 & 2005, Tableau, Cognos, SSRS, Dash-Board.  Configuration Management JIRA, TFS, Git Hub.  Protocols SOAP, SSL, FTP, TCP/IP, HTTP, SMTP.  IDE Microsoft Visual Studio 2015/13/10/08, Microsoft Visio, Eclipse, Net beans.  Design Concepts Design patterns, UML.