Software Engineer <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Software Engineer Albany, OR Work Experience Software Engineer Iatric Systems February 2014 to June 2019 - remote    • Developed audit investigation application  ? Implemented a Single Page Application to monitor/investigate health care audit log data, using HTML, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery  ? Developed a web service using C# for data access for the SPA    • Worked on business associate agreement application.  ? Worked with a team to develop an application to create business agreements and determine risk assessments for heath care business associates, using Dev Express framework and ASP.Net    • Migrated legacy application for health care reporting and monitoring of audit data  ? Worked with a team to migrate an application written in Microsoft Silverlight to use ASP.NET web forms, Bootstrap and Dev Express Bootstrap controls  ? Helped rewrite the web service for the application, using C# Web Application Developer RDI, Inc - Portland, OR July 2013 to January 2014 • Worked on invoice and payment application  ? Worked with team of developers to implement an invoice and payment application for a large, Portland based company, using C#, ASP.NET, MVC and Entity Framework  ? Primarily responsible for user interface Software Engineer Fiserv, Inc - Corvallis, OR October 2005 to April 2013 • Implemented Multi-Factor Authentication feature in home banking software  ? Worked with team of developers to implement MFA feature into home banking software suite  ? Responsible for user interface enhancements, allowing users to select images, passphrase, security questions and answers for logging in from unrecognized PCs    • Developed eStatements enhancement in home banking software  ? Provides credit union members with ability to view, download, search account statements online  ? Worked with third party vendor to develop an interface with their statement software, providing necessary encrypted credentials, calling web service, and parsing XML returned in response to provide appropriate data formatted in web page.    • Implemented single sign-on interface to loan origination package  ? Gives credit unions utilizing third party home banking software ability to seamlessly connect with a web-based loan origination software without further authorization  ? Modified current loan origination software to allow calls from third party vendors, with encrypted credentials passed in to the web service    • Created web service to import credit reports from third party vendors  ? Allows credit unions to receive credit reports from vendors and imports them into host system's database for processing  ? Web service allows vendors to send encrypted member account data and machine/human readable credit report, which is then submitted to the host system's database    • Enhanced home banking administration reporting capabilities  ? Developed new reporting features for home banking administration's web-based interface, allowing credit union back office administrators to generate reports on member registration, usage, and authentication issues Software Engineer Fiserv, Inc - Moorpark, CA February 2000 to October 2005 • Created third party loan origination enhancement for credit union software application.  ? Worked on a team converting legacy code modules from C++ to C#  ? Responsible for design, development and conversion of credit report and auditing/reporting modules to allow generating loan applications, liability/assets records, credit bureau reports and other information from application files provided by third party vendors    • Maintained and enhanced custom data web pages for credit union software application  ? Responsible for custom data functionality and enhancement in credit union application software  ? Enhanced administration web page to simplify creation and maintenance of custom data fields  ? Worked with Product Design to redesign and standardize custom data web pages to provide a simple and consistent interface    • Maintained and enhanced credit union software application  ? Worked with team to identify and resolve customer service request issues  ? Worked with Customer Support to provide credit union users with technical support/assistance  ? Remotely accessed credit union databases to apply SQL patches to repair database tables Lead Applications Programmer FDI - Simi Valley, CA March 1986 to February 2000 • Designed, developed and maintained life insurance illustration software  ? Designed, developed and maintained software for policies for a major life insurance company  ? Worked with marketing, legal and product development departments to develop NAIC-compliant illustrations in both DOS and Windows versions of software    • Led team in development and maintenance of insurance policy illustration software  ? Designed, developed and maintained homeowners, boat owners, RV owners, commercial and umbrella liability insurance policy illustration software to quote insurance premiums and coverage and provide clients with proposal printouts, using Forth and later VB5 Education Associate in Science in Computer Science Moorpark College - Moorpark, CA Skills C#, C++, Html, Javascript, Subversion, Vb.net, Visual sourcesafe, Xml, Asp, Css, Asp.net, Db2, Ms sql server, Ms sql server 2012, Sql server, Sql server 2012, Mysql, Sql, jquery, Excel Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/vince-nowell Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Development  ASP.Net, VB.NET, C#, Dev Express Framework, C++, JavaScript, jQuery, HTML, CSS, XML, Forth    Databases  MS SQL Server 2012, MySQL, DB2, Access, Excel    Project Management/Source Control  Agile/SCRUM methodologies, Subversion, Visual SourceSafe