SR .Net Developer SR .Net <span class="hl">Developer</span> SR .Net Developer - INSURANCE AUTO AUCTIONS, INC Chicago, IL • An 10+ Yrs experienced IT professional in Software Analysis, Design, Development, Maintenance, Migration and Support of Client/Server, Web/Windows applications using Visual Studio.NET 2012/2008/2005/2003 (Visual Basic.NET, Visual C#, ASP.NET), SQL-Server 2012/2008/2005/2000.  • Demonstrated expertise in complete SDLC, and software development methodology and practices using different approaches like Prototype, Water Fall Model.  • Experience in creating, consuming and deploying XML Web Services using ASP.NET, C#.  • Excellent skills in web technologies like Java Script, VBScript, CSS, HTML and XML.  • Expert level on .NET Framework (V 4.0/3.5/2.0/1.1) and experience inEntity Framework.  • Worked extensively in developing Web/Windows based applications using Technologies like ASP.NET,C#, ADO.NET, ASP, VB.Net, SQL Server, Web Services.  • Good experience with data access methods likeADO.NET.  • Expertise in SQL Server Management Studio, SQL Query Analyzer.  • Expertise in Database Design and Programming (Stored Procedures, Functions, Triggers, Views) using SQL Server 2012/2008/2005/2000.  • Extensive use of Object Oriented Programming (OOPS).  • Designed and developed numerous scalable enterprise Internet ASP.NET, C#.NET and VB.Net Applications using SQL and Oracle as back end data base  • In depth knowledge of Web / GUI development using ADO / ADO.NET, WCF and User controls.  • Extensive knowledge and experience in Software Product Development and Production Support / Maintenance (Enhancements) of applications using ASP, ASP.NET 1.1/2.0/3.5/4.0 , ASP.NET MVC3, C#, VB6.0/VB.NET, JavaScript, HTML, AJAX,JSON,JQUERY, XML, IIS and VS.Net.  • Experience in development of application using ASP.NET MVC3 framework (Area/Controller / Model /View/Partial View/Extensions) with Razor engine.  • Experience in developing windows, web and passport security authentications  • Expertise in Object Oriented Programming (OOP) and methodologies  • Employed object-oriented analysis and design techniques including use case analysis and object modeling to ensure business requirements and design goals are met  • Good knowledge of XML Web Services (SOAP, WSDL, UDDI) Server Components using .NET Framework  • Hands-on experience in all stages of project development including requirements analysis, design, coding, testing and support. Good at problem analysis/debugging and exposure of full life cycle of the project.  • Good Experience of Release management processes and planning.  • Experience of working with incident management and change management tools like Remedy and Service Now.  • Extensive experience with SQL, T-SQL for writing Views, Stored Procedures, Triggers, creating tables and indexes  • Good communications skills and experience in interacting with various project stakeholders including application owners, business managers, key stakeholders for requirements gathering, release and resource planning.  • Strong ability to perform at high expectation level to meet deadlines, multitasking and adaptable to ever changing priorities, experience in managing the small team of 2-3 developers.  • Experienced as PQA to Maintain the PCI of projects. Work Experience SR .Net Developer INSURANCE AUTO AUCTIONS, INC - Chicago, IL May 2017 to Present Project: IGNITE AUCTION PORTAL APPLICATION    Project Description: Insurance Auto Auctions, Inc. primarily provides live and live-online auto auction services in North America and internationally. The company engages in facilitating the sale of total loss vehicles; and remarketing lightly damaged, high mileage vehicles for dealers, fleet lease companies, rental companies, and financial institutions. The company also provides services for selling agriculture equipment, construction vehicles, emergency vehicles, fleet trucks, heavy trucks and trailers, marine vehicles, and RVs. This application portal was originally designed and developed as Client/Server implementation and later was migrated to be a web application. The client-server's application had Win Forms that were designed and developed using C#, windows custom controls and .NET Reports. The migration of client-server application to WEB implementation included multiple dynamic web forms developed in ASP.NET that served as a GUI for Intranet users, middle tier (business layer) was written in C#.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in all phases (SDLC) of application including design, develop, testing and deployment. Developed application from Scratch.  • Used Telerik - KendoUI to display data in sortable, editable grids, formatting the data, kendo calendar for searching client tickets (SIR) and user Investments.  • Implemented Client side validation using attribute decorations on entity model properties and jQuery validation libraries.  • Used Ajax, CSS, JavaScript and Bootstrap for the front end web development.  • Used Agile methodology to implement the application.  • Involved in developing WCF service using SOAP/HTTP to communicate with legacy systems and also deployed web services as per business requirements.  • Designed, developed Data contracts, Service contracts & Operation contracts for WCF Service.  • Used Entity Framework for database operations.  • Designed and developed views as responsive components using HTML and CSS.  • Worked with LINQ to SQL, LINQ to XML, LINQ to Collections, Object etc.  • Used WCF to build high performance and secured document retrieval layer to retrieve data from a SQL server based system.  • Performed operations like Data reconciliation, validation and error handling after Extracting data into SQL Server.  • Migrated existing Classic ASP applications to VB.Net applications.  • Given Production support for existing classic ASP applications.  • Implemented the SOA architecture by using Web API.  • Extensively used JavaScript, jQuery for client side validations in the views.  • Involved in implementing the logic using C# and oops concept.  • Consumed Web API from ASP.Net MVC application using Http client  • The task included writing the C# classes, developing user controls, writing JavaScript functions.  • Used MVC5 razor view pages and iframes as per the business requirement.  • Participated in complete SDLC.  • Used lambda expression with LINQ, SQL Query with Entity Framework 6 to perform CRUD operation on database from middle-tier.  • Built RESTful Web Services using WCF.  • Resolved bugs and added features for existing applications built on Kendo UI    Environment: .NET Framework 4.5, C#, MVC 5, Entity Framework 6.x, Web API, WCF, WPF, Web Services, Telerik Kendo UI, JavaScript, OOAD, JSON, TFS, HTML5, CSS3, POS, Bootstrap, SQL Server 2014, Team Foundation Server, Windows Forms, Microsoft Visual Studio 2015, Windows 8, IIS 8 Sr. .NET Developer American Airlines - Fort Worth, TX May 2015 to April 2017 Vendor Management System: Developer of a vendor management web application for American Airlines. The application allows business groups at American Airlines to easily search for vendors providing different types of services.    Responsibilities:  • Designed the architecture and developed the solution for business problem by implementing complete life cycle development i.e., requirements gathering and analysis, writing documents, developing, coding, testing, performance tuning, installation, support and troubleshooting  • Developed the application using Visual Studio 2015 with C# and ASP.Net MVC 5.0  • Developed web services for workflow automation using business process management  • Inbound and outbound web services are developed using SOAP and REST  • The web interface was developed using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX with Razor View Engine and AngularJS which resulted in clean and professional front-end  • VMS is a data driven system. Database was well designed using concepts of Normalization. Created Tables, Stored procedures, functions, views and SQL queries according to the business scenario. SQL Server 2012 was used for data management.  • Entity Framework (EF) was used to access data and for all CRUD operations  • To maintain data integrity both client side and server side validations are implemented using HTML5, JavaScript, jQuery on client side and Data Annotations API on server side of MVC  • Server side working experience with IIS (Internet Information Services) to manage hosting, publishing  • Created design document using Enterprise Architect  • Designed and developed the application to manage and version the report templates so that business users can create and modify various forms with minimal support.  • TFS Tool was used for code management and work tracking process, SSIS for Integration  • Used Nu Get package manager to install and update different versions of software in the application  • Performed unit testing for the modules in the application  • Conducted comprehensive testing of developed objects in development and QA environments, including regression testing before any changes are released to the Production environment to minimize bugs  Environment: Net Framework 4.5.2, ASP.NET MVC 5, C#, AngularJS, ADO.NET Entity Framework, WCF, Web API, Visual Studio 2015, Nu Get, AJAX, SQL Server 2012, TFS 2012. Lead .net developer American Express - Phoenix, AZ March 2013 to April 2015 Project: Campus portal Kenexa    Responsibilities:  • Involved in analysis, design, development and implementation of system applications.  • Worked on Agile Methodology (Scrum Framework) to meet timelines with quality deliverables.  • Involved in gathering and preparing the requirements from clients for product design and enhancements.  • Develop detailed design specifications and process flows as part of the SDLC.  • Involved in developing applications in C#4.6, ASP.Net MVC5, Asp .Net WebAPI, and .Net Framework4.6 to meet the business requirements using Visual Studio.NET 2015.  • Designed and developed various abstract classes, interfaces, classes to construct the business logic using C#.NET.  • Developed WEB API with MVC design pattern and based on EF6.0 database first approach.  • Both Custom validation and JavaScript was written for Client side validations.  • Responsible for designing the ASP.NET application authentication using .NET Framework, Model View Controller MVCand IIS security model.  • Developed Views and Partial View using AngularJS, HTML5, CSS3, and Bootstarp.  • Created new SSIS packages for populating data into MS SQL database.  • Performed DDD&TDD using Dependency Injection to decouple the code and Unit testing to rectify errors.  • Research on image and signal processing algorithms and implementing new algorithms.  • Used type-safe SQL Parameters for data access in order to avoid SQL Injections.  • Worked with Dependency Injection for testing and mocking messages/emails.  • Assisted in quality assurance measures such as code reviews, test case creation and unit testing  Environment: A VS.Net 2015, C# , Asp, net MVC 5, HTML5/CSS3, AngularJS, JQuery, Entity Framework 6.0 , AJAX,WEB API , Windows Services, SQL Server 2012, Windows Family Operating system, Microsoft IIS, Team Foundation Server, VSTS. Lead .net developer CreditSuisse Services Europe Ltd January 2012 to February 2013 Project Name: Scenarios    Project Description: Risk IT group with Credit Suisse has the responsibility of developing, enhancing, and supporting risk related systems. Currently Risk IT team is responsible for market risk and credit risk systems. Risk measurement and management systems are used predominantly by the risk analysts and senior executives within risk group.  Scenario Manager is the GUI which allows users to maintain scenario definitions which are used for portfolio revaluation. Scenarios are used for portfolio revaluation. It writes to various external systems such as MaRS, TSRD and MDS. Orchestration suite is a pack of 6 applications basically targeting to generate reports, define data, view logs from database.    Responsibilities  • Prepared Technical Analysis documents for the JIRA's assigned  • Developed individual modules in client side using WPF and MVVM model  • Created service in WCF to connect to database using entity framework  • Created stored procedures and views to update data and retrieve data in database (SQL Server 2008) Used Linked servers to connect from Oracle database  • Designed universe and reports in Business Objects to extract data from database  • Worked in Excel macros to retrieve data from database  • Created NUnit test cases and implemented mocking to test various methods in the service layer  • Developed application to archive data from database on a daily basis.  • Have basic knowledge in setting up Control-M Job(Creating job,XML). This job is scheduled daily post business hours to delete data from the db and store as csv files  • Have worked in Credit- Suisse London with users to understand requirements and provide production support during post India hours  • Involved in code review activities in all the releases  • Involved in estimation and resource assignment for all the JIRA's as a lead  • Have conducted scrums as the project follows Agile methodology  • Have mentored juniors in the team in various technical and functional competencies    Environment: C#, Visual Studio .NET 2010, .NET Framework 3.5, Crystal Report, Webservices, XML, SOAP, IIS 6.0, SQL Server 2008, T-SQL, TFS 2010, MS Entreprise Library, Windows 2003. Software Engineer HCL Technologies - Noida, Uttar Pradesh August 2010 to December 2011 Project: LMS  Project Description:This application is used for HCL employee; system manages the Leave records of employees. There are various modules of this system like employee, managers and human resource department. Through the employee module users are provided the interface to apply for leaves and view there leave status, leave history and leave balance. Approval module provides the interface to reporting managers for approving or rejecting the leaves.HR module is used by human resource department to view and manage employee's leaves records and reports for various purposes. I was involved in Requirement gathering, Software Design Document, Unit Test cases, Coding and unit testing to till Release.    Responsibilities:  • Responsible for understanding and gathering the Business requirements for new functionalities of application.  • Responsible for new DB design in SQL Server and creating the various Stored Procedures, Triggers used in application to perform the Data retrieval from multiple tables in SQL Server 2005.  • Created master page and CSS files to maintain consistent look and feel across the website.  • Configuration management by using VSS for tracking code changes and maintaining releases.  • Providing support for day to day production support issues.  • Responsible for interacting with business users and providing the technical solution for various issue and queries.  • Coordinating with client IT manager and other project stake holders for various project deliveries and status reporting.    Environment: ASP.NET, CSS, SQL Server 2005,ADO.NET, .Net Framework 2.0, Visual studio 2005, JavaScript. Software Engineer HCL Technologies - Noida, Uttar Pradesh January 2009 to July 2010 Project: Employee Service Portal    Description: Employee Service Portal isa combination of multiple modules like Smart survey where Managers More than level 3 category can give the feedback and then report would be available to senior management for the analysis through various graphical reports and second Module is alarmsystem if Employee forget to bring card, forget to punch the card or on tour then he /she can select the reason from the dropdown and enter the remarks then the request would go to the next level for approval. Once request is approved by manager then he/she can able to enter the timesheet manually. Admin has also see the pending request from his/her end.    Responsibilities:  • Responsible for Business requirement gathering and analysisof existing modules.  • Involved in application design and architecture.  • Responsible for Details Design document.  • Responsible for developing Web forms using C#.NET, ADO.NET.  • Developed and modified various database object like SP, View and functions using T-SQL    Environment: ASP.Net, ADO .NET, VSS, SQL Server 2005, .Net 2.0/3.0, Visual Studio 2005, webservices Software Engineer Noida, Uttar Pradesh January 2008 to December 2008 Project: Travel Booking Management System    Project Description:This application is a product for tours and travel companies, hotel companies this is specifically for our prestige client E-bookers. Multiproduct for management system like Travel funnel service keeps checking the folder within specified interval when any Online Booking made through Customers. It includes various modules like Itinerary management, ticketing, payment, Dispatch details, Pax Information, Client, costing. Itinerary module having the Flight, Hotel, Other Products, insurance sub Module for passengers as per the booking details like number of passengers, destinations covered hotel stay, pick and drop from airport.    Responsibilities:  • Responsible for Business requirement gathering of the new enhancements in application.  • Responsible for preparing the detail design documents for enhancements.  • Responsible for developing the new screen and process for enhancements using the ASP.NET and ADO.NET  • Developing and modifying the various database objects like SP, View and functions using T-SQL    Environment: ASP.NET,ADO.NET, Oracle 8i, VSS, Windows 2000. Education Masters in Computer Science in Computer Science Dr. B.R. Ambedkar University Bachelors in computer Science in computer Science Dr. B.R. Ambedkar University Skills SQL SERVER (9 years), SQL (10+ years), .NET (9 years), VISUAL STUDIO (9 years), ASP (9 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    .NET Technologies C#.NET, ADO.NET, ASP.Net, 2.0/3.5/4.0, WCF, LINQ  Web Technologies XML, HTML, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX  Databases SQL Server 2000/2005/2008/2012, Oracle 8i/9i/10g, MS Access  Middleware ADO.NET Web Services, Enterprise Library 5.0/4.0, Entity Framework, LINQ to SQL  Reporting Tools SQLServer Reporting Services (SSRS 2008/2005), Crystal Reports(2010/9/8.5/8)  Application Servers Windows Server 2008/2003/NT, Microsoft IIS  Operating Systems Windows Vista/ XP/2000/2003  IDE Visual Studio. Net 2003/2005/2008/2010,2012 SQL Server Management Studio  Frameworks .Net Framework 1.1/2.0/3.0/3.5/4.0