Senior Software Test Eng. / Scrum Master Senior <span class="hl">Software</span> Test Eng. / Scrum Master Senior Software Test Eng. / Scrum Master - Abbott Labs Stratham, NH • 15 years of diversified experience and proven ability to deliver consistent, high quality applications for web, mobile and client-server applications  • Complete exposure to Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) using Agile development and Waterfall Model.  • Managed Onshore/Offshore quality assurance teams.  • Scrum Master for various Product teams. Successfully trained several employees on product knowledge and agile process.  • Demonstrated ability to function effectively in a very fast paced and a frequently changing environment  • Result oriented professional with excellent resource management, project/process management, communication, and organizational skills. Work Experience Senior Software Test Eng. / Scrum Master Abbott Labs June 2016 to Present Abbott is a Leader in Rapid Diagnostic and a Health Care provider company with Point of Care testing devices. The Innovative diagnostics deliver reliable and actionable information, resulting in better clinical and economic healthcare outcomes globally.    Responsibilities:  • Conducted a complete assessment of teams, processes and environment; defined issues and risks and best practices across testing life cycle to improve throughput, communication and on-time delivery of projects.  • Work closely with business sponsors, business analysts and information technology subject matter experts to ensure that high business value solutions are planned and executed with quality throughout.  • Developed metrics to effectively communicate Product Quality results and Project Status to Executive Management and other Business units.  • Streamlined QA process to increase efficiency and reduce new product rollout time.  • Responsible for scheduling of team resources, mentoring team members, assigning tasks, working with development management, release management to ensure all testing needs were met and issues were resolved.  • Effectively led a team of off shore contractors. Facilitated and coordinated the work of multiple projects.  • Managed resources across multiple projects, and met business goals for delivery.  • Conducted regular meetings, facilitated communications, ensured coordination, and cooperation among team members.  • Established, implemented, and improved QA infrastructure; Test Procedures, Test Strategy, Process, and Quality Standards.  • Developed and maintained productive working relationships with project owners, business functions, IT developers and other project stakeholders.  • Responsible for Agile Scrum team. Organized and facilitated Sprint planning, daily stand-up meetings, reviews, retrospectives, release planning, demos and other Scrum-related meetings.  • Removed team impediments on a daily basis to allow the team to deliver the sprint goals and deliverables.  • Participate actively in walk through meetings for Business requirements, System requirements to gather information about the Product.  • Developed plans for succession planning, hiring and training.  • Coordinated resource allocations, created work assignments for team, maintained timelines/milestones, and ensured compliance with quality standards.  • Participated in post-implementation reviews and documented testing process lessons learned after major releases. Senior Software Test Engineer Long Term Care, Portsmouth February 2009 to May 2016 Long Term Care Partners, (LTCP) is an administrative company serving the employees and retirees of the Federal Government. A wholly - owned subsidiary of John Hancock Life & Health Insurance Company, ( John Hancock), which is the nation's largest carrier of group long term care insurance. Software Quality Engineer One Communications (Client) June 2007 to November 2008 Project Overview:  Sales in Motion (SIM) is the proposal and order entry engine. It provides proposal and Order Tracking as well as reporting. SIM was basically designed to create a platform and single access point for ordering need of One Communications.    Responsibilities:  • Analyzed the business and functional requirements in order to facilitate better communication with Business Analysts and developers.  • Prepared Test Strategy/Test Plan/ Test Cases document that included details of the testing effort being conducted.  • Analyzed and translated requirements and design into Test Cases.  • Conducted a comprehensive GUI and Functionality testing.  • Inserted Checkpoints to verify whether the requirements are met.  • Performed Back End Testing by executing SQL statements on Oracle Database.  • Involved in Integration, Regression, Boundary Testing, Positive and Negative Testing.  • Performed regression testing for every new build and system enhancement  • Used Quality Center to manage, report, document, and communicate the defects found in the application to the development team.  • Conducted defect triage meetings and documented various reports after analyzing the results. Software Test Engineer Outline Systems, Inc December 2005 to May 2006 Project Overview:  PowerRad - a rapid application development approach, used to create and develop Web based Enterprise Solutions. PowerRad provides an open vendor-neutral approach to the business and technology challenge.    Responsibilities:  • Worked with Team Lead to plan and implement the testing efforts.  • Reviewed design documents and business requirements to learn the functionality and scope of the application and to create test plan and test cases.  • Performed Data driven testing, Regression testing, GUI and Functionality testing.  • Created and maintained Requirements Traceability Matrix.  • Performed positive, negative, security testing.  • Performed back end testing using SQL queries to access the main database.  • Used Quality Center for bug reporting and tracking.  • Active participation in creating the Test Summary Report.  • Facilitated weekly meetings and discussed enhancement and modification request issues Developer Academic College of London May 2004 to June 2005 Project Overview  The project provides a web based application tool to analyze the performance of students. It is designed and implemented using ASP.Net and SQL Server 2000. It tracks the record about the student's performance and generating the required reports.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in Developing Web GUI using ASP.NET, HTML.  • Created Business Components using C#.  • Involved in writing, Modifying complex PL/SQL Queries, Stored Procedures and Triggers and created Business Components using C#.  • Created User Controls for menus and tabs on the Web Pages.  • Written SQL Queries to retrieve the data from SQL Server database and SQL Stored Procedures.  • Used Validation Controls to validate the Input Data using Validation Controls  • Used .NET Validation controls to perform Junior Developer Rechner Info Systems - IN September 2002 to January 2003 Project Overview:  This software maintains the records of every employee their ID's, joining date, Project ID's, Project Managers etc. On the performance of the employee they are given Team Awards, Special Awards, Individual Awards and Monthly Awards.    Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed the Award forms using Visual Basic.  • Maintaining the SQL database.  • Involved in writing, Modifying complex SQL Queries, Stored Procedures and Triggers. Created Business Components.  • Created User Controls for menus and tabs.  • Developed the Employee form Using Visual Basic. Education Bachelor's Skills QTP, JIRA, SQL SERVER, ORACLE, PL/SQL, SQL, C#, C++, HTML, VB.NET, VB 6, VB 6.0, XML, UNIX, UNIX SHELL, JAVA, RDBMS, TESTING TOOLS