Owner/Head Trainer Owner/Head Trainer Owner/Head Trainer - CrossFit Roselle, IL Work Experience Owner/Head Trainer CrossFit - Bensenville, IL September 2012 to Present Build and strengthen company to drive engagement and revenue stream development. Reduced personnel turnover and promoted employee development by recruiting team-oriented candidates and implementing new training practices.  • Recruit, hire and train initial personnel, working to establish key internal functions and outline scope of positions for new organization.  • Manage day-to-day business operations, including accounting, finance, HR, marketing and public relations.  • Design and implement workout programs and fitness classes, including CrossFit methodology and Olympic Lifting.  • Administer fitness assessments and within 6 months of opening membership grew from 0-60.  • Design customized client programs to meet individual fitness needs. Senior Software Developer Experian - Schaumburg, IL September 2000 to October 2013 Monitored ongoing operation of assigned programs and responded to problems by diagnosing and correcting logic and coding errors. Orchestrated efficient large-scale software deployments, including testing features and correcting code.  • Modernized auto marketing products to improve performance, responsiveness and usability including Honda, GM, Porsche, Ford, Chrysler and Volvo.  • Wrote multiple complex SQL queries to extract data from a very large DB2 database.  • Consulted with team members to determine solutions for Sales Group.  • Worked closely with clients to establish problem specifications and system designs.  • Redesigned multiple processes using SQL, UNIX scripting, Java, and 3rd party software to streamline processes and pull data quicker which resulted in faster data processing.  • Evaluated potential software products based on new and existing system development and migration requirements. Education Master of Science in Information Systems Management Keller Graduate School of Management 2009 Bachelor of Science in Computer Information Systems DeVry Institute of Technology - Addison, IL Skills Db2, Sql, Scripting, System development, Data collection, Power bi, Unix, Java, Bi, Collection, Operations, Operations management, Coaching, Mentoring, Requirements gathering, Microsoft office, Software testing Assessments Data Analysis — Familiar August 2019 Measures a candidate's skill in interpreting and producing graphs, identifying trends, and drawing justifiable conclusions from data. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/6-sh3mjkkatexurc Critical Thinking — Expert August 2019 Using logic to solve problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/vbptmwjle9nz-keu Problem Solving — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to analyze relevant information when solving problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/0gvliiygtvhryjms Research — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate’s ability to follow protocols, interpret statistics and graphs, identify errors, and choose research methodology. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/oblr9hysc5nx0fyr Intermediate Word Processing with Microsoft Word — Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's knowledge of intermediate Microsoft Word techniques including the use of formatting, Track Changes, and Comments. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/jar8spnke-m-augh Email — Expert August 2019 Measures a candidate’s ability to effectively compose and organize email messages. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/sfiaorojsd-jdtuy Basic Computer Skills: PC — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/gjh-eymeiviyt6-4 Spreadsheets with Microsoft Excel — Familiar August 2019 Measures a candidate’s Microsoft Excel knowledge including common tools, PivotTables, conditional & nested formulas, and custom visuals. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/ah-wutwne20ehbpl Verbal Communication — Highly Proficient August 2019 Speaking clearly, correctly, and concisely. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/epgcaxdgcf7malex Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Areas of Expertise Include:  Data Collection and Analysis System Development and Administration UNIX Scripting  DB2 SQL Requirements Gathering Software Testing Technical Analysis Coaching and Mentoring  Operations Management Microsoft Office Java Microsoft Power BI