Software Engineer/Senior Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer/Senior <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Engineer/Senior Software Developer Kansas City, KS Highly-motivated, experienced technical professional with 16+ years of software development, engineering and  client support in the financial services industry. Effective project leader, problem-solver, detail-oriented and  organized with advanced programming skills and a innovative mentality. Seeking to apply expertise and extensive  experience in software engineering to take on a challenging new role and contribute to the company's success. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Engineer/Senior Software Developer DST SYSTEMS - Kansas City, MO January 2002 to June 2018 Managed and executed mutual fund clients' event projects including conversions, mergers, and purges. Lead  fellow associates on the planning and execution of the events.  • Served as subject matter expert on merger events for the entire organization. Provided processes to complicated merger tasks, innovative solutions to issues. Trained associates on merger events. Developed a  series of merger ad hoc reports and task lists for use by multiple client teams.  • Performed multiple merger events for a client of over 6 million accounts and 3 billion dollars with no issues.  Received recognition from client's senior vice president for the highly successful results. Awarded company's  associate of the month for the events.  • Performed daily support tasks for the company's many clients. Researched, analyzed and provided issue  resolution of mainframe COBOL batch and CICS programs.  • Developed, enhanced, implemented mainframe COBOL applications and support projects ranging in size from 100 to 1,000 hours. Managed projects and resources throughout the entire project life cycle.  • Developed, enhanced and implemented ripping processes that mined data from mainframe reports and transfer  data into company's online AWD application for client processing. Served as subject matter expert on the ripping process for the entire organization. Managed and trained associates on use of data mining software for  many clients' projects.  • Provided innovative solution to mine data from mainframe reports and provide data to client's back-office  system via flat files through AWD. Saved client over 1,500 hours, 100,000 dollars of mainframe development and 12 months faster to implementation. Received recognition from client's vice president for the successful and innovative solution. Engineer/Service Technician/Shipping Manager MILLER/BEVCO - Kansas City, MO January 1988 to December 2001 • Developed, enhanced and implemented electrical and mechanical systems for clients' packaging equipment.  • Troubleshot, repaired electrical and mechanical systems on clients' equipment. Provided technical solutions and support in shop, at clients' location and via telephone.  • Designed, enhanced and implemented programs for programmable logic controllers used in clients' labeling  equipment.  • Managed clients' orders for replacement parts and equipment supplies.  • Managed orders with vendors to fill customer's orders and restock company's inventory.  • Managed the timely shipment and receipt of all clients' orders via mail, parcel services, truck lines, air services for domestic and international shipments. Education computer programming Johnson County Community College - Overland Park, KS computer science University of Missouri - Kansas City, KS Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering University of Kansas - Lawrence, KS Skills COBOL (10+ years), DATA MINING (10+ years), ACCESS (5 years), DB2 (10+ years), Z/OS, FILE MANAGER, TSO, ISPF, SDSF, EASYTRIEVE, NDM (10+ years), CICS (10+ years), JCL, ESP, SPUFI, DATACOM, VSAM (10+ years) Additional Information SKILLS  • COBOL, DB2, SQL, CICS, JCL, ESP, SPUFI, DATACOM, VSAM, REXX, PASCAL, FORTRAN   • Z/OS, FILE MANAGER, TSO, ISPF, SDSF, EASYTRIEVE, NDM FTP  • Strong analytical and problem-solving skills  • Innovative and critical thinking abilities  • Client service oriented  • Excellent communication and collaborative abilities in team environments  • Skilled project and event leader  • Excellent time management, working with limited or no supervision  • Visual Basic, HTML, Monarch data mining software, Microsoft Office, Excel, Access