Software Engineering Consultant <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineering Consultant Software Engineering Consultant - Jacobs Technology Inc Deerfield, NH Work Experience Software Engineering Consultant Jacobs Technology Inc - Hudson, NH October 2018 to April 2019 Development of a DoD C# WPF application and unit tests running on Microsoft Windows, using Visual Studio 2017, TFS, .NET 4.6.1 and the MVVM design pattern. Java GUI Developer Hologic Inc - Marlborough, MA January 2017 to August 2018 Development of a Java 2D GUI for a medical device running on Oracle Linux, using Netbeans, GIMP, Audacity, Test Track and SVN.  • Performed complete code review, analysis and planned a new architecture for the application at the client's request.  • Added and completed features.  • Repaired substantial defects.  • Made layout and code changes to support internationalization.  • Created numerous graphical UI elements.  • Designed and documented unit tests and device test plans for engineering releases.  • Rewrote manual system software installation procedure.  • Rewrote system software build procedure. Application Developer New England Center for Children - Southborough, MA January 2014 to June 2016 Contract to perm)  Assumed responsibility for development and deployment of a large scale ASP .NET C# Enterprise Educational Application known as ACE 3.0 (Autism Curriculum Encyclopedia) used to teach autistic children, provide data entry and report their progress, using Visual Studio, Javascript, Chrome (and its debugger), IE, Firefox, WCF, SQL Server, SSRS, SQLite, Telerik UI AJAX controls, SharpZipLib, Flowplayer, and Jira.    Resolved data entry and database issues on the iOS Mobile Data Entry app using a self funded MacBook Pro, running OS-X Mavericks, X-Code, Objective-C and the iOS emulator for Apple mobile devices.    Aided in the development of ACE 4.0 using Java on the Play framework, MySQL, BIRT reports, Eclipse, BIRT script, Javascript, Jira, Git, CentOS, SSH and Bitvise. Assisted in the hiring of four Java developers to help complete the project after taking it over from the third party vendor and provided training to bring the new developers up to speed on the code body, design pattern, tools and environment. Principal Software Developer RSA - EMC - Bedford, MA September 2013 to December 2013 Developed WCF Data services for RSA Online, using Visual Studio 2012, C#, .NET 4.5, App Fabric, TFS and IIS. Developed a console application, initially used to exercise and test the WCF Data services and enhanced it to perform data migration. Authored documentation describing service installation and configuration, using various certificates, App Fabric and IIS. Consulting Software Engineer Analogic Inc - Peabody, MA January 2013 to August 2013 DNA Medical device software development using WPF, .NET, C#, SQLAnywhere 11, Sybase Central, Expression Blend 3, Adobe Photoshop, Entity Framework Designer, Microsoft Visual Studio, Jira and Accurev. Consulting Software Engineer RainDance Technology Inc - Lexington, MA June 2012 to December 2012 Development of software for digital polymerase chain reaction (DPCR) instruments named RainDrop. User Interface, Channel Finding/Edge Detection algorithm and auto Z axis development using C#, .NET, and WPF in a MVVM design pattern. This project also required use of Subversion and Jira. Software Engineer G4S Technology Inc - Burlington, MA May 2011 to March 2012 Hired as the senior developer for the G4S Symmetry Engineering Boston team. Trained for six months in Symmetry Security Software development using MS Visual C++, using MFC, various versions of SQL Server and Windows operating systems. Performed various tasks relating to hiring, equipping and setting up the team, including installation and maintenance of the Seapine VCS on Windows Server 2008. The team went live in January 2012. Performed on-site customer system surveys and addressed various site problems. Created hot fixes for critical issues.    Diagnostic tool development in .NET 3.5 C# Winforms. Consulting Software Engineer Wheelabrator Technologies Inc - Hampton, NH April 2010 to December 2010 Architected and developed an enterprise application for the waste and fuel industry providing functionality to collect, plan, and analyze, daily, weekly, monthly, and annual waste collection, fuel and energy output information, as well as environmental, health and safety incidents.    The project required the use of ASP .NET 3.5, ADO, SQL Server 2008r2, and MS Windows Server 2008, design and development of custom UI components to replace functionality of 3rd party controls, including custom Dynamic Gridview treenodes, custom multi-column listboxes, and fully editable gridlets. SQL development required enhancements to existing stored procedures and creation of custom DB C# classes. Complete web UI design and development required the use of dynamic page generation controlled by XML and permissioning subsystem, HTML, Javascript, ASP .NET UI, and AJAX controls. Consulting Software Engineer Cellular Specialties Inc - Manchester, NH October 2008 to May 2009 GUI design and development of an embedded network application for cellular devices, running in Red Hat Enterprise Linux, using TCL, CGI, Javascript, Bugzilla, Subversion, KDevelop, Firebug, Technologics SBC, SNMP, Samurai and Backtrack 3.0 security, vulnerability, and penetration testing suites, ApacheBench benchmarking software, Java Applets, Servlets, Filezilla FTP Server, iReasoning SNMP browser, JavaFX and JNI running on Tomcat 6.x, JDK 1.6x, OpenOffice and Netbeans 6.5 Private Software Engineering Consultant March 2008 to October 2008 Provided advice, design and development assistance to several area high tech firms regarding their financial and web based applications, using Microsoft Visual C# (Visual Studio 2008), SOAP WCF, Web Services, OOA/OOD, the Microsoft Office Add-on Development Kit, Java, SharePoint, Prism, Silverlight, Adobe Flash CS3. Software Development Manager II Polycom Inc - Andover, MA February 2006 to February 2008 Senior Manager, contract to perm full time, hands on)  Led the development of Polycom's next generation Desktop Video Conferencing System, Enterprise Edition and the associated web portals.    Architected and developed the desktop transmission system, call statistics subsystem, global directory and parsing subsystem, buddy list subsystem, LDAP manager and LDAP URL parsing subsystem, XML document parsing subsystem, and fast user switching subsystem.    Architected and developed the Enterprise Edition's web portal.    Supervision, mentoring and training of two teams of project developers using a variety of tools including CompPlanner, Microsoft-project and a proprietary employee review package.    Enterprise Development required the use of Microsoft Visual Studio, Microsoft Visual C++ 8.0, MFC, GUI, DotNetNuke, Visual Basic .NET SharePoint, ASP, .NET, PHP, XML, Paintshop Pro, SQL Server, SIP, VOIP, LDAP, JXplorer, XMPP, Gloox, PVX, AccuRev, Jira and Agile software development process. Consulting Software Engineer Marketmax / SAS - Middleton, MA December 2005 to February 2006 Development and defect repair of a multi tier, ActiveX spreadsheet based inventory-planning system. Development required the use of Microsoft Visual Studio, Microsoft Visual C++ 7.0, MFC, OOA/OOD, and GUI components. Consulting Software Engineer Kronos Incorporated - Chelmsford, MA June 2005 to November 2005 Redesign, development and defect repair of a time management suite written in Microsoft Visual C++ 6.0, 7.0, OOA/OOD, C# .NET and MFC. GUI design and development using cutting edge skinned user interfaces and skinned windows controls. Consulting Software Developer Markem Corporation - Keene, NH July 2004 to June 2005 Implemented the Java application and drivers used to operate an RFID label machine using Netbeans, OOA/OOD, Swing (GUI), ANT, XML, AXIS, CVS, Linux, Microsoft-Windows, JDBC, MySQL, PostgreSQL, Applets, Servlets and the EPC standards. Created JAVA drivers for Lantronix, AWiD, Opto22, Symbol, and Zebra devices.    Design and development of a print head simulation GUI application written in Microsoft C# using .NET environment, CM Synergy and OOA/OOD, graphic barcode DLL, GUI test application and ActiveX graphic barcode software in Microsoft Visual C++. Private Software Engineering Consultant October 2002 to June 2004 Provided advice, technical expertise and investor networking to several area startups. Performed complete product architecture and development of a Java / Microsoft Visual C++ multi-tier meteorology tracking application. GUI design and development using cutting edge skinned user interfaces and skinned windows controls. Consulting Software Architect Saint Anselm College March 2004 to March 2004 Designed and Developed a web deployed ActiveX security control using Microsoft Visual C++ 7 and VB script in the .NET environment. Consulting Software Architect OpenService Inc - Westborough, MA January 2002 to September 2002 Architectural design and development of the next generation of Open's multi-tier network security applications, NerveCenter and SystemWatch, using distributed agents. This development required the use of C, Microsoft Visual C++, OOA/OOD and SNMP Research's SADK. Director of Software Development Cozint Interactive Inc - Andover, MA October 2000 to July 2001 permanent full time, hands on)  Supervision and technical leadership of a large team of software developers engaged in the design and development of the company's integrated Web-Based opinion gathering and analysis system.    Provided team and sub team organization, software engineering mentoring, tool selection and deployment, web application architecture definition (OOA/OOD) and documentation, network hardware architecture design and documentation and security design. Our system architecture required us to build components written in both Java and Microsoft Visual C++.    Trained and supported the development team in the use of Cocoon, Tomcat, Visual Studio, and various web servers.  The following technologies were used to build the system: servlets, applets, JSPs, JavaScript, XML, XSLT, ASP, SQL Server, Results for the Web, Crystal Reports, IIS, Tomcat, Cocoon, IBM Websphere, JRUN, Orion, ODBC, JDBC and SitePadPro. Consulting Software Architect Tecnomatix-Unicam Inc - Portsmouth, NH June 2000 to September 2000 Provided technical leadership, architectural design and development on the Production Monitor 2 project. Trained and supported the development team in the use of Cocoon, Tomcat, Apache Web server and IIS. Development of PM2 required the use of Microsoft Visual C++ 6, MFC, OOA/OOD, JDK1.3, JSDK2.1, Java Servlets, Java Applets, XML, XSL, JSSI, COM, JDBC, ODBC, JNI and the SitePadPro IDE. Consulting Software Architect MediSpectra Inc - Lexington, MA February 2000 to June 2000 Provided technical leadership, architectural design and development of an embedded Microsoft-Windows GUI application used to control and provide on screen visual results from a medical device used to optically detect pre-cancerous cervical cells and aids OBGYN's in their diagnoses. Development required the use of Microsoft Visual C++ 6.0, OOA/OOD, DirectX and MFC running on Embedded Windows NT. Rational Rose. Consulting Software Architect Cerulean Technology Inc - Marlborough, MA June 1999 to January 2000 Implemented the Data Warehouse Server, some client and GUI components of Mobile Fusion using Microsoft J++ ( C# ), Visual C++, TCP/IP COM, OOA/OOD, DAO, ODBC, JDBC, MFC, POP3, SMTP, Microsoft Java SDK 2.01, Applets, Visual Café, Microsoft-Access, DBASE, Paradox , Oracle 8 and SQL Server.    Development and defect repair of PacketCluster, a Microsoft Visual C++ Client-Server application. Founder/CTO/Vice President of Software Engineering WebED Inc - Newburyport, MA October 1998 to May 1999 Permanent full time hands on)  Supervision, Design, Development (hands on) and mentoring of a team building a web based learning system. Authored system specifications, coding, design, development and deployment procedures. Hired resources and provided corporate technical vision. Consulting Software Architect Cerulean Technology Inc - Marlborough, MA August 1997 to March 1999 Architected and implemented a Microsoft Visual J++ (C# ) /C++ Client-Server internet data collection and delivery application using TCP/IP COM, OOA/OOD, DAO, ODBC, JDBC, Applets, MFC, POP3, SMTP, Microsoft Java SDK 2.01, Microsoft-Access, DBASE, Paradox, Oracle 8 and SQL Server.    Architected and implemented a GUI Visual Editing tool to be used in conjunction with the client server platform described above. Consulting Software Architect Desktop Data Inc - Burlington, MA January 1997 to September 1997 Architected and implemented an automated Windows 95/NT Electronic News Mailing Application, (code name Asgard) using COM, OOA/OOD, DAO, MFC, MAPI and Microsoft Visual C++ 5.0.    Team Supervision, Architecture and development of a Windows NT NewsEDGE server administration and automated order entry system, (named GAP) using OLE, COM, OOA/OOD, DAO, MFC, and Microsoft Visual C++ 5.0. Consulting Software Architect Numega Technologies - Nashua, NH October 1996 to December 1996 Architected and implemented a Win95/NT Microsoft Package Partner add in product for Microsoft- Developer studio version 5, using OLE/COM interfaces for access to the Developer Studio internals. Code development performed using the alpha version of Visual C/C++ 5.0, MFC, OOA/OOD, package partner SDK and Microsoft-Source Safe. Consulting Software Architect Lockheed Sanders - Merrimack, NH July 1996 to October 1996 Architectural design, team leadership and development of mission planning software for Navy S.E.A.L. teams operating on Microsoft-Windows 95/NT. Responsibilities included creation of GUI application architecture, documentation, instruction and coding. Developed the application using OLE (full server with automation), MDI and DAO using MFC 4.x. Design and development of plug-in architecture that will enable third party developers to create add-ins for the product. Product developed using Microsoft Visual C++ 4.2 and OOA/OOD. Consulting Software Architect Simplex Time Recorder Co - Gardner, MA May 1996 to July 1996 Development of a Windows GUI Time Clock configuration application named StarComm. Project required Microsoft Visual C++ 1.52c /4.00 and the Microsoft-Foundation Class Libraries and OOA/OOD. Consulting Software Architect FTP Software Inc - North Andover, MA October 1995 to April 1996 Design and Development of a Windows 95 GUI Email application named OnMail32. Responsibilities included redesign and development of the product's tasking engine, which provides intelligent message filtration. Creation and development of Win 95 multimedia objects used for message alerts as well as construction of animated controls. Rewrote FTP's 16-bit Internet browser to support 32-bit architecture. Project required Microsoft-Visual C++ 4.00, MAPI, OOA/OOD, and the Microsoft-Foundation Class Library environment. (MFC 4.0) (Including all the latest Win 95 GUI control objects) Consulting Software Engineer Polaroid Corporation - Bedford, MA September 1995 to October 1995 Designed and implemented a Windows 95 driver's license / identity card GUI application. Project required Microsoft-Visual C++ 1.52, OOA/OOD, and MFC 3.0. Consulting Software Engineer American Internet Inc - Bedford, MA July 1995 to September 1995 Design and development of a Windows 3.1 web server administrator application. (Preparation for Win-95 using Property Sheet technology.) Project required Microsoft-Visual C++ 1.52, OOA/OOD, and MFC 3.0. Private Software Engineering Consultant April 1995 to July 1995 Architecture, design and development of a proprietary and confidential Microsoft Windows 3.1 GUI application, for a confidential manufacturer of bank ATM equipment. Project required use of Microsoft-Visual C++ 1.5x, OOA/OOD, MFC and Codebase 5.1 Database SDK. Computer Science Instructor Northern Essex Community College - Haverhill, MA June 1993 to June 1995 Instructed the following courses: Introduction to C programming, Advanced C programming, Introduction to Windows Programming (C++ OOD), Advanced Windows Programming. Provided training in real world software development methodologies. Designed curriculum and the Windows Programming Certificate Program. Consulting Software Engineer Advanced Modular Solutions Inc - Acton, MA December 1994 to April 1995 Architectural design, team supervision and development of an Internet "Phone Booth" GUI based embedded application utilizing Microsoft-Windows NT 3.5 and NT Server 3.5 in the Microsoft-Visual C++ 2.0, OOA/OOD, and the MFC environment.  Design and Development of extension DLLs for the following: Dongle controlled security system, Audio System, Video (GDI) System, Magnetic Card Reader / Writer System, Telephone dialer system, Electronic Hookswitch System, Sonar Interferometer / Sonar system, (Polaroid sonar hardware), External Resource Manager System.  Designed and Implemented the test harness and demonstration software.  Converted Terminal Emulation Software written for a Mac to Windows-NT.  Maintenance of software schedules and dependency lists.  Designed and built an (Patent Pending) Electronic Hookswitch control electronic circuit. Consulting Software Engineer Market Arts Software Inc - N.Y, N.Y, US January 1994 to November 1994 Upgraded Realtime for Windows, (formerly Lotus Realtime) a Client/Server GUI application using TCP/IP and Windows sockets and OLE 2.0, for shipment. Consulting Software Developer Digital Equipment Corporation - Nashua, NH September 1993 to December 1993 Development and defect repair of VTX for Windows, including the WYSIWYG print subsystem and internationalization, using DDE, Microsoft C/C++ 7.0 and the Windows SDK. Private Consulting Software Expert The Law Firm of Nixon and Vanderhye PC - Arlington, VA October 1992 to July 1993 Principal Software Engineer Lotus Development Corp - Cambridge, MA April 1989 to July 1993 Realtime Products Division (permanent full time)  Project lead for Lotus Realtime for Windows.  Team supervision, Design and Development of a Windows GUI Client/Server Application with a UNIX back end. Conversion of Realtime API libraries from UNIX to Windows.    Test and selection of TCP/IP client software stacks. Tools used: Microsoft-C/C++ 6.0AX, Microsoft-Windows SDK, Lotus ADK, Microsoft Codeview, Microsoft Librarian, and Microsoft NMake. Designed all of Realtime for Windows user interface using a variety of graphic tools.  Senior Software Engineer. OEG-OEM Group  Lead Engineer Spreadsheet Team, LotusWorks for Windows (permanent full time)  Designed and implemented the LotusWorks for Windows GUI spreadsheet.  Lead Engineer Database Team LotusWorks for Windows.  Designed and implemented the LotusWorks for Windows GUI Database. Made significant contributions to the overall user interface of LotusWorks for Windows.  Database team for LotusWorks 3.0, a DOS based product. Award received for selling over one million copies.  Software Engineer, Lotus Special Editions Group (permanent full time)  Successfully attacked, broke and improved the copy protection of the Lotus Choices product.  Led formation of Lotus Special Editions QA Design and Code testing group.  Designed and implemented procedures for designing software and code testing.  Designed and implemented MAP Network TSR for testing functionality of Lotus @Factory.  Team supervision, mentoring, design and development of an EMS compatibility test application conforming to the LIM EMS 3.x & 4.0 specification, the Rational Systems Inc.'s VCPI specification, and the EMS requirements of Lotus applications.  Team supervision, design and development of a PC/BIOS/DOS Compatibility application. Software Engineer ECA/Allen-Bradley Company Inc - Waltham, MA September 1988 to January 1989 Designed and implemented real time software for remote sensing, data collection and hardware control for an HVAC device. Developed in 8051 Assembler language, using VAX resident editor and cross-assembler. Software Engineering Consultant/Contractor Lotus Development Corp September 1987 to August 1988 Compatibility testing and device driver testing on various IBM PCs and compatibles. Senior Firmware Engineer Termiflex Corporation - Merrimack, NH March 1987 to August 1987 Permanent full time)  Designed, Implemented and installed the Final Inspection and Test System II (FITS II) that replaced the manual system (FITS I) with a fully automated system. The system design included design of procedures, documentation forms, and software. Designed and developed the software on an IBM PC compatible, using Microsoft/IBM 8088/8086 Assembler language and Turbo Pascal. Designed and developed six individual databases to control Real Time operation.    Trained and Supervised the three person QA team, first in computer literacy and then in the use of FITS II. Managed their workflow until they were competent in the use of the procedures, documentation, and software. Software Engineer Leitz - Billerica, MA January 1985 to March 1987 Permanent full time)  Designed and developed the Real Time Control Software for the LMS-2000 Laser Metrology System, a Mask and Reticule measurement device, on an Intel Series IV Development System with an ICE 88A. Used Intel Pascal, ASM, Laser Interferometers, motor control, proprietary OS, INDX 80XX Microcontroller cards and chipsets, diagnostics.  Supervision of the co-op students. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science Southern New Hampshire University May 1991 Associate Degree in Computer Science in Computer Science Northern Essex Community College 1983 to January 1985 Skills .NET, MICROSOFT VISUAL STUDIO, VISUAL STUDIO, API, C#, VISUAL C#, C/C++, C++, Git, GUI, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, MFC, OOA, OOA/OOD, PASCAL, PHP, PLATFORM SDK, PVCS, Subversion