INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT MANAGER INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT MANAGER Seasoned IT Program Manager Elkridge, MD CAREER PROFILE    ? Currently employed as a Senior Program Manager at Stanley Black & Decker, Towson, Maryland  ? A total of 18+ years of professional experience having successfully managed and deployed multiple application, infrastructure and real-estate programs and projects in various industries including Manufacturing, Retail, Environmental Health and Safety, Media & Entertainment and Defense  ? Over 10+ years of experience in leading large off-shore and on-site project teams.  ? Results-driven and articulate with excellent communication skills and the ability to impart complex technical content to a business audience in oral, written and presentation formats  ? Recognized as a patient, motivated and optimistic team player, mentor and leader  ? Extensive experience on the various phases of the software development life cycle, from requirements analysis to system architecture, design and implementation, testing and integration  ? PMI Certified Project Manager Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT MANAGER STANLEY BLACK & DECKER INC - Middle River, MD February 2014 to Present • I currently manage a technology insertion program at multiple Stanley sites to enable them to easily conduct business over reliable IT infrastructure.  • I have delivered multiple infrastructure and real-estate projects across various business units inside Stanley Black & Decker. Past projects include IT infrastructure deployment at multiple large manufacturing sites, build out of the main Stanley IT facility in Middle River and migration of on-premise mailbox and messaging services to O365  • I handle the entire project life cycle from pre-envisioning activities to managing the project all the way till project closure. A major challenge involves understanding the diverse global businesses and IT environments inside SBD, and managing the scope and cost of projects in such a complex environment.  • As part of the Enterprise PMO team, I actively participate in process improvement strategies and programs supporting best practices. I also mentor and on-board new project managers to the team. PROJECT MANAGER YASH TECHNOLOGIES - New Britain, CT October 2012 to January 2014 • I was the Account Manager for the Microsoft Web Applications Delivery Team associated with the Stanley Black & Decker account.  • I managed multiple .NET application deployments and was responsible for eliciting and documenting project requirements from the business stakeholders, while keeping them updated on the project status and activities.  • From a delivery perspective, I managed the offshore delivery team, architecting the overall solution and approach, and managing the various project plans and schedules. I also kept the company's COO and other senior management updated on the status of various ongoing projects. SOFTWARE MANAGER PRIME FOCUS TECHNOLOGIES - Bengaluru, Karnataka May 2009 to September 2012 • As a Software Manager at this fast-growing media startup, I was responsible for managing the development of a cloud-based media content management platform for uploading, reviewing, cataloging, distributing and archiving rich-media content. This platform was specifically designed for media and entertainment companies, corporations and public institutions, where customers had the ability to launch and monitor content-related workflows thereby allowing them to maximize the return on their content assets.  • I managed a team of 6 developers assisting them with technical guidance. I was responsible for architecting and designing custom applications, workflows and user interfaces.  • I performed business analysis functions by eliciting requirements from clients and working with them from project start through user acceptance testing and delivery.  • I also played the role of a technical sales consultant, working closely with the sales team and product development teams during new product launches and sales pitches. SOFTWARE DEVELOPER GENERAL DYNAMICS CANADA - Ottawa, ON February 1999 to February 2009 • Having worked for over 10 years at one of the world's leading defense system integrators, I played various roles in the software development team ranging from leading projects, providing support for project planning and scheduling, coordinating project related information-flow between senior management and team members to designing and developing subsystem modules and prototypes.  • I performed technical evaluations for selection of custom off-the-shelf (COTS) software tools.  • I was responsible for developing two fully functional software prototypes to validate modifications to the product architecture, which involved migrating from a structured architecture to a service-based architecture.  • I developed various user interface applications for radar and sonar systems running on ruggedized COTS hardware. Education Master's Degree in Computer Science in Computer Science Concordia University - Montréal, QC Skills Change management, Deployment, Infrastructure management, It infrastructure, Vendor management, Migration, Data Center, LAN, PMP, budget, Outlook, maintenance, Scheduling, Estimating Certifications/Licenses Project Management Professional (PMP) March 2010 Driver's License Additional Information CORE COMPETENCIES    ? Program and Project Management  ? IT Infrastructure Management  ? Enterprise Release Management  ? Real-estate IT Integration and Deployment  ? Datacenter Migration /Refresh / Relocation  ? Risk / Problem / Incident / Change Management  ? Strategic Planning  ? Leadership and People Management  ? Mentorship, Training and Development  ? Vendor Management