Software Engineer <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Fairfax, VA Well-rounded professional with strong ability to contribute to employer missions. Goal oriented in pursuit of client objectives. Demonstrated customer service skills in various settings through active listening and conveying information effectively. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Engineer Aerotek Inc. - Fairfax, VA June 2015 to June 2015 Supported reengineering of a Java application on a contract basis. Software Developer, Lead BIT Systems, Inc. - Sterling, VA December 2014 to March 2015 Supported maintenance and testing of a Java application. Applications Systems Analyst/Programmer, Lead CACI-Inc Federal - Fairfax, VA April 1993 to December 2014 • From late November 2005 through September 2012 performed application maintenance programming of a production system. Work assignments required Java Swing for user interfaces. Performed business logic programming. Performed Oracle data modifications using SQL. Evaluated written and verbal requirements and communicated with business analysts for accuracy. Full life cycle development also included writing designs, programming, unit testing and writing test scripts.  • Supported development of a test application for a new Java system to assist in quality control.  • Created and evaluated written and verbal requirements; communicated with customers and business analysts for accuracy. Education B.A. in Psychology University of Virginia - Charlottesville, VA M.S. in Linguistics Georgetown University - Washington, DC PhD in Theoretical Linguistics Georgetown University - Washington, DC Skills CUSTOMER SERVICE, STOCKING, CASHIER, HELP DESK, RECEPTIONIST Additional Information Additional Skills:  • COMMUNICATION: Research Associate and Teaching Assistant experience at a university. Researched and wrote articles to disseminate information. Wrote installation and usage instructions; helped write procedures and policy manuals.  • CUSTOMER SERVICE: Administrative - Medical office receptionist. Transcribed medical records. Retail - Worked as cashier, stocking books, and assisting customers. Help Desk - Answered questions and performed troubleshooting for software applications.  • PROCESS IMPROVEMENT: Contributed to a survey designed to measure customer satisfaction. Wrote descriptive business rules to validate data.