UI Developer UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> UI Developer - Nerium Int Dallas, TX ? 10 years of IT experience in development and deployment of various Service Oriented Architecture in developing both front end & back end applications using React, CSS3, HTML5, jQuery, Bootstrap, Material UI, MySQL, MongoDB, Firebase, Git, Express, Node, Handlebars.  ? Good at Documenting and Understanding user requirements and System specifications.  ? Experience with Windows, Unix/Linux Operating System.  ? Highly self-motivated individual with very good communication skills and dedication towards work.  ? Best Practice Mentoring - guiding development teams in use of best practice design strategies and design patterns in building mission-critical, enterprise applications.  ? Cross-Browser development experience (IE/Firefox/Safari/Chrome/Opera)  ? Experience in developing iterative mockups, prototypes and production-ready HTML5, CSS/CSS3.  ? Experience working in MVC Architecture based frameworks like AngularJS and Good Experience in Bootstrap and Responsive Web design.  ? Extensively worked in various software methodologies such as Waterfall, Agile, and Scrum.  ? Experience in working with various databases like MongoDB, Oracle, SQL Server and MySQL.  ? Experience in Web Application Development using Client Script design technologies like Angular JS, JQuery as well as HTML, CSS, XML, JavaScript.  ? Developed Single Page Application using UI routing protocols and angular.  ? Great ability to write clear, maintainable, well-documented, well-commented and efficient code for web development.  ? Capable of learning new technologies and adapt to new environments quickly.  ? Experience in identifying defects, problems, suggesting and determining the extent of programming required and performance tuning of the applications.  ? Excellent team player, quick learner and self-starter with effective communication, motivation and organizational skills combined with attention to details and business process improvements.  ? Experienced in handling end users and troubleshooting real-time issues in production environment including network, operational and application problems.  ? Excellent analytical and communication skills with capability to handle new technologies. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience UI Developer Nerium Int - Dallas, TX July 2018 to Present Worked on Support Application Ui Development and enhancement    Responsibilities:  • Developed the functionality for communicating between the modules mostly involved in VIEW and CONTROLLER section of MVC pattern for Quality Control (QC) app project.  • Build user interfaces differently by breaking them into components using REACT and used a real, full featured programming language to render views, with REACT.  • Developed application by using React, Angular, Node, Express, MongoDB, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, LESS and JavaScript.  • Used React JS to make webpages rendering faster, instead of using ng-repeat in Angular JS used ngReact to achieve the same.  • Used Bootstrap JavaScript plug-ins to implement Tabs, Scroll Spy, Tooltips, Pop Overs, Buttons and alerts.  • Used Grunt task runner to automate the compiling CSS/SASS files, optimize images, make a bundle and minify JavaScript files.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON in Node.JS by using Express.JS.  • Developed REST services using Node-JS, Express-JS, Body-Parser, Mongo-JS, Underscore-JS and other node modules to serve the web application with JSON data.  • Developed CSS styles to maintain the uniformity of all the screens throughout the application and positioning of screen objects by using LESS.  • Utilized various JavaScript and JQuery libraries like JQuery validate, AJAX for form validations and other interactive features and also developed call-back functions to parse and handle JSON data returned from the server.  • Used agile methodology for the software development and used JIRA for task assignment, bug tracking and fixture.  • Been an active team player, helped in fixing bugs and also carried out troubleshooting by using the troubleshooting tools/debugging tools.    Environment: HTML5, JavaScript, CSS3, jQuery, Ajax, Bootstrap, React-JS, Node-JS, Express-JS, JSON, MongoDB, RESTful web service,Jira, GIT UI Developer Tasacom Inc - Dallas, TX June 2016 to July 2018 Responsibilities:  • Developed presentation-tier JSP pages in HTML, Implemented jQuery Data Grid control, Validation control and other Widget controls.  • Developed Web forms/user interfaces using Struts MVC, jQuery and JSP.  • Used Ajax Controls, Web forms, JavaScript and HTML for Commission, Payment and Inventory reports.  • Worked on AJAX controls like Update Panel to manage the post back of the web page to server, AJAX Script Manager and Script Manager Proxy controls to register JavaScript and web service files.  • Used JavaScript accordingly for validation purpose, browser detection and controls.  • Developed various AJAX controls and widgets to build a rich User Interface for the application.  • Created Windows services to create automation processing of XML.  • Involved in developing jQuery and AJAX wrapper classes for fast retrieval of data and for animations.  • Created Model objects using Entity Data Model with Entity framework using Hibernate.  • Used React-autocomplete for creating google maps location search on the webpage.  • Developed pages using AngularJS directives, expressions, routing capabilities for bookmarking, filters, validations and AngularUI components such as grid, buttons, carousels, date pickers, modal dialogs and other input components.  • Responsible for transforming design mock-ups to W3C standards compliant HTML pages using XHTML, CSS, JavaScript, DOM, Photoshop, and Dreamweaver.  • Defined new validations through AngularJS for the form field validation implemented through HTML5.  • Mainly involved in development and maintenance of the website using HTML5, CSS, Ajax, and jQuery, JavaScript, AngularJS and Node.js.    Environment: JavaScript, CSS, HTML, jQuery, XML, AJAX, MVC,Windows., SQL and Tableau UI Developer Rediant - Miami, FL May 2014 to June 2016 Responsibilities:  • Worked extensively with various versions of HTML4/5, and JavaScript, CSS, Angular Js and libraries to Communicating with the customer to design solutions.  • Used jQuery plugins for Drag and Drop, Widgets, Menus, User Interface and Forms.  • Developed Date Time Picker using Object Oriented JavaScript extensively.  • Designed PDF, excel and print previews for all the reports in the application using HTML, JavaScript and SQL Stored Procedure.  • Debug the application using Firebug to traverse the documents and manipulated the nodes using DOM and DOM Functions.  • Involved in developing HTML, and JavaScript for client side presentation and data validation on the client side within the forms.  • Contacted with different customer for their requirements and modified code as the customer needs.  • Worked in Onsite - Offshore model.  • Written SQL Queries to interact with Oracle database.  • Successfully executed all the test cases and fixed any bugs/issues identified during the test cycles.  • Lead the technical support team in charge of troubleshooting, ticketing systems, VPN, MS Exchange and active directory. UI Developer Ozone Insurance Group - Santa Clara, CA April 2012 to May 2014 Ozone Insurance Group is one of the top rated financial company which helps individuals and business companies to secure a healthy financial future. It is primarily engaged in property and casualty insurance, focusing in specialized commercial products for business and in the sale of traditional and fixed and fixed-indexed annuities. Recently they have been using RPA tools to automate many manual processes successfully.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in complete SDLC life cycle - Designing, Coding, Testing, Debugging and Production Support.  • Used Angular JS to bind HTML to JavaScript Objects and develop Single Page Application (SPA)  • Implemented Presentation layer using CSS Framework, AngularJS, JQuery, Wire-framing, and HTML5.  • Developing custom HTML elements using AngularJS directives. Used CSS preprocessors like LESS and SASS.  • Used to update User Interface & Automation ( RPA) based on changing needs and requirements.  • Implemented the Bootstrap components like Thumbnails, Progress bar, and Carousel in the product details.  • Developed handy version applications using Bootstrap Framework, HTML4 and CSS2.  • Converted the mock-ups into hand-written HTML5, CSS 3.  • Designed Frontend with in object oriented JavaScript Framework like Bootstrap, NodeJS, AngularJS.  • Implemented AJAX functionality using JQUERY, JSON and XML.  • Used JSON for storing and exchanging information between browsers and servers  • Used ReactJS for search engine optimization.  • Use of ReactJS help to refresh the pages and update the changed parts.  • Used AJAX and JSON to make asynchronous calls to the project server to fetch data on the fly  • Used Node Package Manager (NPM) to install the necessaries packages from my app.  • Used NodeJS middleware for uploading files.  • Responsible for initiating, planning, construction, execution, monitoring and controlling Web applications.  • MySQL/Oracle databases  • Utilized the HTML5 DOM local storage features to store data locally client side processing.  • Developing application using the Agile ( Software Development Process) model.  • Eclipse IDE was used for development of source code.    Environment: HTML, CSS2, CSS3, AJAX, DHTML, JSON, HTML4,HTML5, JavaScript, JQuery, Bootstrap, ReactJS, AngularJS,, NodeJS, MySQL/Oracle Test Automation Developer Generic Solutions - Dallas, TX March 2011 to April 2012 Worked on Cloud CRM application with various features like Account, Contact, Opportunities, Dashboards and Reports. The application is user friendly, which allows customer to log in with different profiles and enter the data of the policy the customer has taken. Members could even customize their home page.    Responsibilities:  • Attend Iteration planning meeting and finalize the user stories and estimation for the 2 weeks sprint/iteration.  • Attended review meetings with Business Analysts, Developers and end users to understand the requirements.  • Involved in preparing high level scenarios based on Agile Methodologies for each Scrum.  • Analyzed system requirement specifications and developed test plans, test cases to cover overall QA System Testing. Analyze the automation results once Rubyscripts/Javascripts execution completed.  • Manual testing of the quality of software applications & reporting errors to the Dev team  • Developing test cases based on the User stories and functional requirement specification document.  • Creating feature files, writing Scenario's using Cucumber, attend daily standup meeting and end of iteration meeting.  • Run regression and smoke test suites on a new version of the application.  • Analyze the results once AngularJS Scripts execution completed.  • Involved in Peer Reviews to check the correctness of the test cases.  • All the bugs were tracked and updated in defect module of Rational Team Concert (RTC)  • Involved in preparation of Test plan and mapping test cases to requirements.  • Performed Sanity testing in Production environment after application is deployed. This is to confirm that application is deployed correctly and working as expected.  • Developed test cases for different added functionality as per the Requirement Specs and Functional specs.    Environment: AngularJS,SOAP UI, Oracle, Quality Center, SQL Developer, Ruby, Cucumber,and Agile Methodologies. UI/UX Designer Air France - Paris, FR February 2010 to March 2011 Air France is the Europe's largest airline when measured by fleet size, revenue, scheduled passenger-kilometers flown, and number of destinations served. This is a multi-service, fully integrated billing management system designed to manage all aspects of the business.    Responsibilities:  • Planned and conducted user research through interviews and surveys. Studied data to identify design opportunities.  • Prepared project proposal and roadmap with a stakeholder team and established a  • roadmap. Developed a website using a CMS in order to do usability testing  • Architected, designed and implemented a SPA (Single Page Application) in AngularJS which consume JSON from a Spring MVC, using Spring Security to secure the Application Implemented nested views and routing using AngularUI Router as per the requirement. GUI was developed using JSP, HTML, and AngularJS and created reusable components in AngularJS using Custom Directives Filters, Services and Partials.  • Involved in programming, testing, debugging, implementing and maintaining of Java EE client/server distributed application to meet the organization's needs.  • Worked in using React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations  • Developed different reports in JavaScript by implementing the AngularJS SPA framework and common packages for the application using Generics.  • Utilized React for its efficient data flow architecture to create a lightweight and render efficient web app that searched projects via the GitHub API through keywords.  • Implemented logic to listen and to subscribe events.  • Developed a feature in utility application and Verification Monitoring tool to verify the application statistics like pollers, consumers, loggers using AngularJS, Node.js and Bootstrap.  • Involved in writing queries, stored procedures and modifications to existing database structure as required per addition of new features.  • Used AngularJS Routing for navigation between nested HTML views in the application and created AngularJs custom directives that were used along with HTML elements for DOM manipulation.  • Co-ordinated with QA lead for development of test plan, test cases, test code and actual testing responsible for defects allocation and resolution of those defects.    Environment: HTML5,CSS/CSS3,Less,JSON, AJAX, JavaScript, Bootstrap,NodeJS,AngularJS,JQuery,Oracle SQL Software Engineer - Team Lead Pergamon Group January 2009 to February 2010 Responsibilities:  • Developed UI pages using HTML, XUL, DOM, CSS, JSON, JavaScript, JQuery, Angular JS and AJAX.  • Created HTML pages with CSS and the Box Model.  • Build large-scale web applications and mobile-first websites using JavaScript, React JS.  • Skilled in leading frameworks as React, Angular, to build high-qualiity, scalable and reusable components and Front-end solution.  • Integrated the Java code (API) in JSP pages.  • Used JQuery core library functions for the logical implementation part at client side for all the applications  • Involved in writing JQuery-based Ajax requests using jQuery.get (url, data, callback, type) or jQuery.ajax (options) and jQuery. Post (URL, data, callback, type).  • Used jQuery events to manipulate the elements depends on the user interactions (like. ready(), hover(), bind(), click(), key press()  • Used jQuery to traverse through a DOM tree and manipulated the nodes in the tree.  • Implemented the Drag and Drop functionality using jQuery framework.  • Used many number of application development, testing and debugging  • Input validations were done using Validation functions.    Environment: HTML, CSS, GIT, DOM, JavaScript, handlebar, JQuery, AngularJS,AJAX, JSON Education UC Berkeley Extension M.Sc. in Systems Université Grenoble Alpes - Paris, FR BS in Electronics & Telecommunications Engineering University of Rwanda