Software consultant <span class="hl">Software</span> consultant Software consultant - Athletic Treads Stuart, FL Work Experience Software consultant Athletic Treads - San Jose, CA April 2019 to Present Helping footwear company transition over to the Lightspeed POS retail system. I am a liaison between the owner and Lightspeed support to help improve their retail workflows and automate purchasing/B2B via the API. Created a standalone SQL database that populates and maintains  vendor catalogs to facilitate product order entry and ordering. Technologies include Lightspeed POS Retail, Excel, SSIS, Visual Studio, and SQL Server 2012. Head Professional Buttonwood Tennis Club - Stuart, FL August 2013 to April 2019 Head Professional Seaside Tennis - Santa Rosa Beach, FL March 2013 to August 2013 Associate Professional Caswell Tennis Center - Austin, TX March 2011 to December 2012 Software Consultant QD Technologies - Austin, TX November 2007 to December 2008 Developed scripts for bulk loading flat files into an Oracle 10g database. Designed Informatica mappings and monitored daily ETL loads. Worked with DBA to create new tables and indices and improve performance. Attended customer meetings to gather Crystal Report requirements  and developed the Crystal Reports. Senior Data Analyst Oracle Corporation - Austin, TX July 2006 to November 2007 Analytics team member for the OnDemand data hosting group (cloud). Primarily responsible for monitoring and tuning daily ETL loads and troubleshooting Informatica mappings. Within the first month, I reduced the daily ETL performance time from 40 hours down to 4 hours. Also  represented the Analytics team in the mass environment installs and configurations. Technologies included Informatica Powercenter, Perl, Siebel Analytics Server, and Answers. Data Warehouse Engineer Toppan Photomasks, Inc March 2002 to July 2006 Lead ETL developer of a 300GB data warehouse using Informatica, PL/SQL, and shell scripting. Administered daily ETL loads with Informatica Powercenter, created Informatica mappings, and overall performance tuning. Interviewed analysts and executives to define requirements and design specifications. Responsible for reducing the daily ETL load time from 10 hours to 3 hours. Strong SQL and PL/SQL skills were required. Toppan Photomasks, Inc - Round Rock, TX November 2000 to July 2006 Software Engineer III Toppan Photomasks, Inc November 2000 to March 2002 Developed complex Oracle reports against a large, customized 11.0 Oracle Application (eMask(TM)). Frequently interacted with the data warehousing and DBA team to assist with conceptual aspects of the OLTP database design. Worked with front-end programmers Created queries, triggers, indices, stored procedures, and functions. Job roles require advanced SQL and Oracle RDBMS knowledge with an emphasis on performance tuning of reports. Software Engineer / Report Developer McKesson Corporation - Broomfield, CO September 1998 to November 2000 Developed complex Oracle and Crystal reports for a Fortune 500 healthcare company's triage system. Attended design specification meetings with account managers and DBA team, then designed queries, subqueries, views, PL/SQL stored procedures, and functions. Also, administered and customized the APPWORX report scheduling system, responsible foR delivering 50,000 reports per month. Job roles required advanced SQL programming skills. Systems Analyst/ Software Developer The Leisure Trends Group - Boulder, CO August 1994 to September 1998 As a market research and retail audit company for the ski industry, we collected data from stores across the nation. Our team created applications that accepted, screened, aggregated, and matched the data, including the support of POS reporting procedures for over 600 retail stores. Involved with a network conversion from Novell to NT and an application conversion from Foxpro to VB/SQL Server 6.5. Also, managed a form/survey processing project using OCR software, SQL databases, and Cognos reports. Education BS in Computer Information Birmingham-Southern College - Birmingham, AL 1994 Skills DATA CONVERSION, DATABASE, FOXPRO, SQL SERVER, ORACLE