Front-end Developer Front-end <span class="hl">Developer</span> Front-end Developer - E-Commerce Software Work Experience Front-end Developer E-Commerce Software 2013 to Present 2013 - Current    iSoftPros    ? Executed and contributed to full-stack web development projects, with an emphasis on front end features, browser manipulation, and cross-browser  compatibility.  ? Applied business logic and integrated payment system for ecommerce.  ? Did SEO implementations to increase traffic to client's websites in order to generate increased revenue Software Engineer Xerox Corp June 2013 to June 2013 Used SQL and PL/SQL  ? Refactor and repackaged selected software components coded in Java  ? Responsible for the design, development, implementation and maintenance of computer software for systems supporting with Product Development or  Information Management systems. Software Engineer Lundberg Survey Inc August 2012 to May 2013 A marketing research and survey company for projecting oil gas prices. Developed an application in VB.NET for users to fill metadata on a form, customize and submit to be  stored in a backend database running on SQL Server. Used SSRS to create report  forms and mass print them directly from the app    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in all stages of SDLC for implementing user requirements  Tasks included user acceptance approval, testing, deployment and production  support  ? Migration of in-house software code from VB 6 to VB.NET using Visual Studio  2010. Refactor code in VB.NET  ? Improving layout of UI forms in VB.NET  ? Implement additional functionality to the app - related to mass printing job  ? Design and create SSRS reports (Earlier version used Crystal reports)  ? Writing Stored Procedures in SQL Server  ? Documentation, Knowledge transfer and Presentations to end users Software Engineer Infolead Solutions Inc - Los Angeles, CA June 2010 to July 2012 A software solutions provider serving research for clients in SaaS and e-commerce in Los Angeles  Responsibilities:    ? Created applications using object oriented design concepts  ? Coded in C# and Javato develop UI and business models  ? Refactored existing code in C#  ? Created stored procedures in SQL server  ? Developed web applications in ASP.Net using MVC architecture  ? Design, code, test and debug applications using Microsoft .NET technologies  ? Created web-based applications using Javascript, HTML and AJAX for developing controls  ? Used Entity framework (EF) and LINQ to interact with the relational data  Developed user documents for the users    Network security project Jun 2011 - Jul 2012  Project Title: Intrusion Detection using Snort  Description:  Snort is a lightweight network intrusion detection system capable of performing real-time  traffic analysis and packet logging on IP networks.    Role:  ? Used Sun's virtualbox to create a virtual machine with OS - Ubuntu  ? Installed packages: apache, php, MySQL-server, MySQL-client as well as the MySQL version of snort.  ? Using two terminal windows for starting snort and barnyard respectively  ? Analyzing the captured packets to detect corrupted packets  ? Storing the result summary simultaneously in a MySQL database    Data Mining Project Jun 2010 - Jun 2011  Project Title: Clustering algorithms and their effects on a data set  Description: Clustering algorithms are used to group data so that the objects in each cluster are more similar to those in the same group vis-à-vis to those of another  group  Role:    ? Creating a system using Java for comparing 3 types of clustering algorithms  on a  dataset  ? Applying K-means, DBSCAN and Agglomerative and Divisive Hierarchical  algorithms to a dataset  ? Graphical representation of each step in the clustering techniques  ? Calculating time and space complexities  ? Finding the best fit clustering algorithm for the particular dataset  ? Writing a detailed report with the program findings highlighting the advantages  and disadvantages associated with each algorithm Software Programmer AGL Technologies January 2004 to November 2006 Worked on software in VB that deals with all the stages of booking an advertisement in a newspaper. All the processes starting from booking an advertisement to billing to  payment receipt can be handled  Role:    ? Using Visual Basic, worked on all the aspects from client requirements to the delivery of the product as part of a team  ? Used Crystal Reports to design and create reports  ? Used ADO.NET to connect to MS Access database  ? Maintaining the database  ? Using the existing system as basis, created ASP.Net web pages with C# for displaying information for the user Education MS in Computer Science in Computer Science California State University Channel Islands 2009 BS in Information Technology in B.I.T Delhi University 2004 Skills C#, C++, Javascript, Objective c, Vb.net, Sql server, Mysql, Oracle, Sql, Asp, Asp.net, Cisco, Dhcp, Ospf, Tcp, Tcp/ip, Java, jquery, Crystal reports, Networking Additional Information Software skills    Programming Languages:C, C++, C#, Java, Javascript, JQuery, VB.NET, ASP.NET,    Objective C    Networking:TCP/IP (v4, v6), DHCP, Routing Protocols - IS/ES systems, OSPF,  Wireshark    Firewall: IDS/IPS - Snort, Cisco    Databases:SQL server, MySQL, Oracle    Reports: SSRS, Crystal Reports    Operating Systems:Windows, Linux, Mac    Graphics and Media:Computer Graphics, Maya 2007