Job Seeker Work Experience SCM August 2014 to Present AUGUST 2014-PRESENT  • Migrated TFS 2010 platforms to TFS 2017 using both full collection and source code / work item migrations.  • Provided full migration plan and implementation from TFS 2010 to "on premise" and Azure DevOps Services. Required various test runs, post analysis, and total understanding of TFS 2017 (Security, project management, template modifications, implementation of vNext build engine, reporting, dashboards, team collection importing)  • Created work item migration program in C# to migrate work items from TFS 2010 to TFS 2017.  • Built CI and Nightly builds over multiple release branches using Azure DevOps Services build technology giving SSG immediate feedback on code check-ins. Resulted in software releases that went flawlessly.  • Spearheaded OSS compliance management within the .NET development environment using Blackduck's Protex and Code Center OSS governance tools meeting Comtech's corporate wide OSS policy.  • Resolved various Azure DevOps Services requests for Project Managers (Burndown reports, Work Item Tracking, Alerts) resulting in more efficient monitoring of a projects progress and success.  • Migrated HP QC 10 to HP QC 11.52/12.60 for corporate HP QC users which required in-depth migration plan, testing, and interfacing with stakeholders. This allowed Comtech to gain 8 years of software enhancements from Quality Center. SOFTWARE ENGINEER SCM June 2006 to August 2014 • Technical Lead and Administrator for Blackduck's Protex and Code Center OSS governance tools.  • Championed the OSS governance process that saved over $250K in personnel expenditures.  • Managed builds, merges, branches, build templates, and software quality assurance standards within TFS and open-source technologies (SVN and TeamCity).  • Configured CI, Nightly, and Fortify build environments using MSBuild and WorkFlow (WF).  • Collaborated closely with PM's, software development and QA teams to review code for vulnerabilities, standards, and release management.  • Traced and resolved complex build and environment issues so as not to impact project deadlines.  • Provided consulting services on the features of TFS/VS tools for our development teams.  • Interfaced with the development team to refine, maintain and deploy ALM processes.  • Excellent customer service attitude, communication and interpersonal skills, with the ability to work under pressure and in high stress situations with a calm demeanor.  • Customized Team Builds by creating custom activities in C# to be used by WF during the build process.  • Experience working with HP Fortify Security Server, SCA (Source Code Analyzer), and Audit Workbench producing weekly SCA builds in TFS, analyzing FPR files creating PR tickets when necessary, and generating Fortify reports for all product releases.  • Designed and implemented the WEdge Information Panel using VB.NET. This Winform UI application gave the WEdge user flexibility in personalizing various application settings while operating the WEdge briefing system.  • Using VB.NET and web service calls, developed a "weather bug" Winform UI to display real-time weather information when showing a PowerPoint airfield presentation.  • Initiated the automation of UI tests within HP Quality Center using QuickTest Pro, VBScript, and .NET. SOFTWARE ENGINEER II HARRIS CORPORATION August 2002 to June 2006 • Designed, programmed, and tested UI and business service components written in C# using VS.NET for our Media Business Systems next generation product. Development process used was the agile methodology utilizing extensive collaboration, architectural reviews, and small deliverables with short iteration cycles.  • Maintained PC Reporting software package using VB 6.0, ADO, XML, Excel pivot tables/charts, and interfacing with IBM AS/400 using RPGILE and CL. These reports gave our clients the ability to analyze and make marketing decisions critical to their broadcasting/trafficking P&L statements.  • Lead analyst when interfacing with Customer Relations on trouble shooting client issues and problems related to PC Reporting and Microsoft Excel. Responsibility required immediate response to our client's system critical issues, bringing a resolution along with customer satisfaction and trust.  • Created various Broadcast Management reports using Crystal Reports on the BI team. SOFTWARE DEVELOPER CHECKS UNLIMITED August 2000 to August 2002 • Completely designed, programmed, and unit tested Bank Analysis project consisting of n-tier development using VB 6.0, ASP, XML/XSL, COM+, HTML, VB Script, JavaScript, and Oracle stored procedures written in PL/SQL. These projects used MSMQ interfacing with BizTalk server.  • Functioned as senior Business Analyst in designing Oracle DB model, new systems functional requirements, and project plan. Detailed interface with operators during testing, debugging, and enhancing all user packages. Completely analyzed and documented replacement components and data model needed for Phase II. Initial phase involved using UML. Resulted in monthly savings of $250,000 for the company.  • Maintained checking systems written in VB, ASP, VB Script, JavaScript, HTML, using XML/XSL and Oracle stored procedures. Education BACHELOR OF SCIENCE in Computer Science / Systems TAYLOR UNIVERSITY 2006 to 2016 Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/leoswiontek