NET Developer NET <span class="hl">Developer</span> NET Developer - Kinder Morgan (Insight Global) Katy, TX ? 2 Years+ at Kinder Morgan providing project Software development support.  ? 9 months at Lloyd's Register maintaining a market leading reliability based mechanical integrity  system.  ? Two Years at Group 1 Automotive Creating VB.Net Click-Once Applications to Collect Automotive  data and Generate Reports.  ? One year at Harris County translating the current COBOL based Justice Information System into a  Web based C# CSLA scalable solution.  ? Four and a half years working in the Harris County Civil Courthouse developing Enterprise wide  ASP.Net solutions to Storing and retrieving all Civil/Criminal Court documents.  ? Five years Car/Motorcycle Insurance Policy Quote/Issue/Renewal and configuration based on  individual State regulations.  ? Four years' experience with Prudential converting an AWD policy document work-flow system to a  .Net based system.  ? Experience with all Visual Studio Increments from up to and including 2013. Work Experience NET Developer Kinder Morgan (Insight Global) - Houston, TX February 2016 to Present Provided Development Support to Kinder Moagan Shipping Terminal Projects.  ? Resolution of open application issue tickets.  ? Creation/Maintenance of Crystal Reports Reports and custom controls used as input parameters.  ? Development and deployment of individual client projects from requirement documents.  Technical Environment: VB.Net, SQL Server 2012, TFS, Crystal Reports, SSIS, JIRA NET Developer Staffmark - Houston, TX October 2015 to February 2016 Provided Development Support to update web solution to validate and collect Veterans Medical  Information used to evaluate their Disabilities.    ? Updating of Questionnaire Wesbsite based on changes required by the VA (Veteran Affairs)  medical Team.  ? Creation of validation snippets to be used by team when similar validation requirements are  needed and can be reused.  Technical Environment: C#, ASP.Net, HTML, SQL Server 2012 NET Developer Lloyd's Register - Houston, TX February 2015 to October 2015 Provided Development Support to Complete Reliability Based Mechanical Integrity Project Release.    ? Resolution of Current application issues selected for inclusion in Next Release of Application.  ? Creation of a Custom Control that determined what if any version of the Applications document  management tool is installed and incorporated the functionality appropriately while not affecting  clients that do not have the software installed/enabled.  ? Creation/Maintenance of Crystal Reports and SQL Report Server Reports.  ? Development and deployment of individual client projects from requirement documents.  ? Tracking of support tickets in Team Foundation Server and in Team Support support and helpdesk  solution.  Technical Environment: VB6, SQL Server 2008, Oracle, C#, TFS, VB.Net, Oracle AutoVue NET Developer Group 1 Automotive - Houston, TX November 2012 to November 2014 Provided Development Support to All Group 1 Corporate Office IT Projects.    ? Creation/Maintenance of a Click once Data Collection Apps to analyze and build reports based on stores sales/spending figures connecting to the database with either LINQ or Accessing T-SQL  procedures with the .NET Framework.  ? Conversion of Asp based Store Website/Email maintenance to a Windows UI with integrated  security to allow template modification and preview before being  ? Process required daily tasks and generated reports to be sent to Group 1 Store Managers.  ? Installed, configured and maintained Team Foundation Server 2013 Project and Work Item  tracking environment.  ? Create database solutions providing data collection and store performance metrics.  Technical Environment: VB.Net, C#, ASP.Net, SQL Server 2012, TELERIK Controls, Spreadsheet  Gear, TFS, LINQ, Visual Studio 2010, 2012 & 2013 Harris County District Clerk existing County - Houston, TX August 2008 to November 2012 Provided programming support for new development as well as enhancements of existing County  Public and internal websites.  ? Ongoing Conversion of a COBOL based Justice Information System to ASP.Net/C#. This project is  anticipated to take over 3 years to complete.  ? Worked on a Court Processing Project that was used in the courts to identify and check in all  defendants being handled by an Attorney. The system used JSON/JQUERY in the front end and a web service in the back end to communicate between the database and the UI. The defendant's  picture would show on a touch screen terminal so the judge could make sure the right defendant  was present.  ? Full Life Cycle involvement in the creation of a Free to the public Fax Filing Service that allows  Non-Fee legal documents to be filed with the Harris County Courts.  ? Enhancement of public website to provide electronic copies of court documents both to the Public  and Attorneys. Incorporated security to prevent unauthorized access to sealed/confidential  documents.  ? Conversion of legacy/paper criminal docketing courts to an electronic recording and reporting  system.  ? Work with Business Analysts converting legacy applications into ASP.NET Web based scalable  solutions.  Technical Environment: VB.Net, C#, ASP.Net, Ajax, SQL Server 2008, Agile Development  Methodologies, LINQ, Visual Studio 2005, 2008 & 2010 Software Developer TEK Systems - Houston, TX June 2007 to August 2008 Provided programming for new development as well as supporting existing internal fund centered  software solutions. Participated in and on call rotation where incoming support tickets are coordinated through resolution.  ? Enhancement of an existing email based prospectus-mailing application to absorb the functionality  of a print-based Fund documentation solution. I was responsible for creating Functional/Technical  documentation and coding changes to presentation and business layers.  ? Coding support for several workflow centered financial applications. Creating enhancement and performance\stability upgrades.  Technical Environment: VB. NET, SQL Server 2000, T-SQL (stored procedures), Access 2000, XML Software Developer Insurance Data Processing - Wyncote, PA May 2002 to May 2007 Coordinated the professional programming, coding, and technical documentation activities of the project. Responsible for the technical analysis and estimates, technical design and methodology of  the project. On a day to day basis my time is splits almost equally between SQL Server 2000 and developing in Visual Studio using VB.NET and C#.    ? Worked on many component projects that link closely to the company's core policy writing system.  These projects originate from a Business Design Document created between IDP's Business  Analysts and the client's. From this a technical specification document is created to further identify the business logic and physical design to be followed.  ? Create the functional design document and gain approval from management so that coding can  begin. Keep communication lines open with the business analysts to make sure the project still  meets the client's needs.  ? Lead/Assist in Data Conversion/Migration projects.  Technical Environment: Rational Unified Process, UML, VB. NET, C#, XML, SQL Server.    ? Development of a Web Service in C# to interface with an existing P&C Policy Rating system. Data  is received for the client in an XML string; this is processed with rating Information returned to the originating client. In this instance providing real-time vehicle rating information for ACE Insurance of America.  Technical Environment: C#, ASP. NET, XML, SQL Server Programming Consultant TEK Systems - Parsippany, NJ February 2002 to March 2002 Analyzed existing data being generated from Net meeting sessions.  ? Extract all relevant data from such log files be it manually or periodically.  ? Created several Crystal Reports to display in both a tabular and graphical format, showing the resulting data in such a way the Net meeting usage could be clearly seen.  ? Scheduled these reports to be generated each day and be made publicly available in HTML format  on an Intranet environment.  Technical Environment: VB 6.0, Seagate Info 7.5, Crystal Reports 8.0, Access 2000. Development Engineer Astrix Software Technology - Edison, NJ December 2000 to October 2001 Resolving issues found during development cycle of all Applications developed by Astrix Software for clients such as DOW Agro sciences, Nalco and Bayer. Developed from specifications several  scientific data collection/reporting n-tier projects as required by clients.    ? Development of a chemical material Administration system to allow chemical data to be added,  deleted or modified. Incorporation of an extensive search screen using Asynchronous queries  allowing materials to be found by matching treatment references in a Chemical Material.  ? Incorporation of Tables/Views required to be added to Oracle Server/Local Oracle Lite Database to allow all new requirements to be achieved.  Technical Environment: VB 6.0, Oracle Server, Oracle 8i Lite, ADO 2.5    ? Development of a handheld (PSION) Data Collection utility, allowing scientists to record chemical  performance attributes as they walk through Treatment Plots.  ? Created an interface to allow the transfer of data from a handheld device into already established  Chemical treatment Applications.  Technical Environment: OPL, VB 6.0, ADO 2.5 Senior Programmer The Cutter Companies - Lebanon, NJ May 2000 to December 2000 Performed development tasks required in taking a pre-existing document imaging software suite from pre-beta state to production. Worked alongside two other senior level developers and the CEO  (original developer).    ? Designed and implemented a commercially available Document Management suite allowing a wide  range of media (audio/images/video/scanned documents) to be stored/ accessed intuitively.  ? The whole project team was involved in every step of the product development life cycle.  Technical Environment: VB 6.0, Image Gear, ADO 2.1 & Access 2000 Programming Consultant Prudential Insurance - Edison, NJ August 1996 to May 2000 Worked on several internal prudential client/server software development projects. Worked within several prudential departments providing technical support directly to over 1000 NT workstation users on issues directly affecting their ability to use any software installed on their workstation.    ? Intranet Report Display web server using ASP and a Visual Basic Active X DLL allowing Prudential  Employees access to permission granted Reports as they become available in a user-friendly  application.  ? Also allowing easy retrieval of over 16,000 past reports (sorted by date) within seconds. This  project was initially created using native VB-Script and HTML, during the development cycle the system was enhanced using COM through VB 6.0.  Technical Environment: VB 6.0, COM, HTML & ASP    ? Letter of Acceptance and Reminder Letter Generation Program that automatically generates letters  for Prudential Agents and Clients as work is created. Letters of acceptance are also bronzed into the Eastman Workflow system automatically. Before letters are created, each reminder's case is  checked against workflow to ensure the reminder is still required.  ? Any case not completed within a specified time span is sent to a special area for attention.  Technical Environment: VB 6.0, Word, Sybase & Eastman    ? Created a front-end piece that would link a set of reports with the Sybase stored procedures  related to them allowing easy report selection and input of parameters, convenient grouping of reports and specific operations (as required) such as the production of multiple reports if a date  range was entered can also be achieved.  Technical Environment: VB 6.0, ASP, HTML, Sybase & Crystal Reports    ? Automatically generate and send faxes from a UNIX file that ran periodically. Each file can contain  over 1000 separate faxes. The status of sending each fax is monitored automatically and reported to the Sybase database allowing future faxes to be blocked or be changed to another fax number if  required.  Technical Environment: UNIX, VB 6.0, Right FAX & Sybase Education B.C.S. Computer Science Robert Gordon University 1996 Skills Asp (10+ years), C# (10+ years), MS SQL SERVER (10+ years), SQL (10+ years), SQL Server (10+ years), .Net Additional Information Technical Skills  ? VB. NET  ? T-SQL/SQL Server  ? C#  ? LINQ  ? ASP.net, HTML, Javascript  ? Team Foundation Server