Senior Technical Lead & Developer Senior Technical Lead &amp; <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Principal engineer Austin, TX • 13+ years of experience in software development and maintenance projects using .Net framework, C#.Net, WPF and Win Forms.  • Good knowledge in requirement collection, analysis, functional & technical analysis, architecture & detailed design, development, testing, in various kinds of projects.  • Hands-on with DevExpress, Nevron and sync fusion controls with WPF controls  • Good understand and experience in object orientation programming.  • Extensively used design patterns in software design and implementations  • Good exposure in requirements gathering, analysis and proof of concepts implementation  • Implemented MVVM pattern in projects.  • Experience in developing client-side applications using JavaScript, AngularJS, HTML5, CSS and Node JS  • Very good knowledge on implementing software components using S.O.L.I.D state principles and design patterns  • Hands on with multiple configuration and version control tools like TFS, Jira, confluence, bit bucket, clear case.  • Experience in following the Agile process on software projects  • Good exposure in SQL server and postgre Sql.  • Experience with entity framework, ADO.net  • Hands on Experience with NUnit and MS visual Studio unit test framework  • Hands-on experience with Python script  • Experience with D0-178B software verification in aerospace projects.  • Hands-on with in distributed messaging using ZeroMQ and DDS  • Good exposure to work with customers across geographies like USA, UK, Japan and having 6+ years of onsite experience (UK, Japan, Switzerland, USA). Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Senior Technical Lead & Developer HCL Technologies Ltd December 2016 to Present system (Dec'16 - till date)  Thales Live TV Maintenance console application is a WPF Application that uses a wizard pattern to provide a guided and structural process for updating and performing maintenance operations of the LiveTV products. The maintenance console performs various tasks including running shell scripts, to updating software versions and uploading content. Maintenance console uses sync fusion controls within its wizard pages to provide rich detail and interaction.  Roles and responsibilities: Senior Technical Lead & Developer  • Requirement analysis and effort estimation  • Impact analysis for change request  • Implementation of software modules  • Involved in peer code review  • Integration testing of software modules  • Performing system level integration  Environment: .Net Framework 4.5, Visual studio 2015, C#.Net, WPF, LINQ, Task Parallel Library, JavaScript, Angular JS, HTML5, CSS Prism & Unity Senior Technical Lead & Developer, Onsite and Offshore coordinator HCL Technologies Ltd October 2015 to November 2016 Control System (Oct'15 - Nov'16)  Range Master control system (RMCS) is a Live Fire training system used in commercial ranges. The RMCS system allows for both global control (from the Server) and local control (from the Tablet) of XWT target carriers. The Range Master conducts training through the Main UI on the server and the coach/shooter conducts training through the Lane Control Tablet. RMCS application is loaded onto a Lane Control Tablet and runs on an Android operating system. While the Master PC running on the windows operating system is standalone, the client Android Lane Control Tablet will not run on its own. Lane Control Tablets in local mode are run in conjunction with the RMCS Master application  Roles and responsibilities: Senior Technical Lead & Developer, Onsite and Offshore coordinator  • Gathering requirement for customer  • Analysis of requirement  • Effort estimation  • Co-ordinating onsite and offshore team  • Design software modules  • Implementation of software modules  • Involved in peer code review  • Integration testing of software modules  • Performing system level integration  Environment .Net Framework 4.5, Visual studio 2013, C#.Net, WPF, LINQ, Task Parallel Library, Threading, JavaScript, Angular JS, HTML5, CSS, Data Distribution service, Entity Framework, SQL server 2014 Senior Technical Lead & Developer HCL Technologies Ltd June 2014 to October 2015 total monitoring solution, from Meggitt Sensing Systems' Vibro-Meter ® product line, is a highly integrated software suite that supports the effective monitoring of all rotating machinery. Designed for operation with the VM600 XMx16 cards and the VibroSmart ® DMS (distributed monitoring system) devices, the VibroSight software forms part of a modular machinery monitoring system that enables the predictive methodologies which can be used to help improve the effectiveness of industrial machinery  Roles and responsibilities: Senior Technical Lead & Developer  • Analysis of requirement  • Effort estimation  • Implementation of software modules  • Involved in peer code review  • Integration testing of software modules  • Technical team management  Environment: .Net Framework 4.5, Visual studio 2013, C#.Net, WPF, LINQ, Task Parallel Library, Threading, Entity Framework, SQL server 2014, ANTS profiler, CLR profiler Senior Technical Lead & Developer HCL Technologies Ltd June 2013 to June 2013 Jun'13 - Jun'13)  Test Planning, Execution, and Reporting Tool (TPERT) will be used by BDS and BCA to plan and execute testing activities for a number of defense and commercial equipment's. TPERT will help users to create complex documents e.g. TIP Sheet, TCM and Sequence documents, route TIP Sheets in a dynamic workflow for approvals and allow sequencing of Test Conditions to form a Sequence documents using multiple TIP Sheets.  Roles and responsibilities: Senior Technical Lead & Developer  • Analysis of requirement  • Effort estimation  • Implementation of software modules  • Involved in peer code review  • Integration testing of software modules  • Technical team management  Environment: .Net Framework 3.5, Visual studio 2010, C#.Net, Win Forms, LINQ, ADO.net, C#.Net, Win Forms, Oracle 11g, VSTO, SONAR, TFS, ERMT Senior Technical Lead & Developer HCL Technologies Ltd May 2013 to June 2013 V2 - POC (May 13 -Jun'13) Coolselector is a calculation and selection tool for selecting the correct and most feasible component for refrigeration and air conditioning plants of any size and type. Windows based standalone application developed in C#.NET and WPF to selector the components and perform the calculation & performance measurement.  Roles and responsibilities: Senior Technical Lead & Developer  • Requirement Analysis  • Feasibility study  • POC implementation  Environment: C#.Net, WPF, WIX, Java script Senior Technical lead HCL Technologies Ltd March 2010 to April 2013 6. Project: KMMG_KIM_Maintenance&Enhancement (Mar' 10 - Apr'13)  Image Pilot is a device intended primarily for diagnostic activities and is equipped with a wide range of functions such as Patient Info. Receipt, exposed image acquisition and image Input/Output. The exposed image acquisition function enables acquisition not only of CR images, but also DICOM still and motion images from echo devices as well as non-DICOM images such as digital images. Additionally, acquired images may be processed for density and contrast, annotated or aligned for comparison. Moreover, these images can be printed on normal PPC paper for the use of informed consent, output to films or CDs/DVDs.  Roles and responsibilities: Technical Lead & Developer  • Requirement Analysis  • Development  • Senior Technical lead  Environment: MS Visual Studio .NET 2005, 2008, C#2.0, 3.5, SQL Server 2000, Style Cop, FxCop, VSS, IBM Rational clear case Senior Developer HCL Technologies Ltd September 2009 to March 2010 Sep 09 - Mar 10)  Service Diagnostics Software is used to diagnose and troubleshoot the PC components & sub-systems of the iLab system. ILab system consists of two PC (Image PC and Acquisition PC) with other sub-systems like MDU, PDAQ etc , There are some field issues associated to the iLab system which requires a tool to diagnose the issues and this Service Diagnostics software serves the purpose. This Service Diagnostics Software is mostly used in the customer site being used by the Field Service Engineers to diagnose the iLab system and/or to perform preventive maintenance. The Service Diagnostics software shall communicate with the iLab sub-systems to diagnose the iLab. The Service Diagnostics Software shall generate diagnose/Troubleshoot summary report which shall be maintained in the equipment service history file and in the service data base. The Service Diagnostics Software shall be used to collect the required data and to simulate/analyze the field issue back in the R&D / manufacturing.  In addition to field diagnostics the scope of the Service Diagnostics software shall be extended to support iLab R&D and manufacture team to diagnose/troubleshoot the iLab issues. The Service Diagnostics Software shall be used in-house and by the Field Service team across the Geo.  Roles and responsibilities: Senior Developer  • Requirement study and Analysis  • Technical co-ordination with onsite team  • Integration Testing  Environment: MS Visual Studio .NET 2005, C#2.0, XML, and VSS Software Verification Engineer HCL Technologies Ltd June 2009 to August 2009 • Develop the RTRT test script for the given operation  • Execute with the Target board.  • Generate the report files and deliver to the customer  Environment: RTRT, STRS, and HTML Software Verification Engineer HCL Technologies Ltd September 2007 to May 2009 is a sub-component of the 787 Common Core Systems (CCS). The Common Core System (CCS) is an Integrated Modular Avionics solution to Provide common computing, communications and interfacing capabilities to support multiple Aircraft functions. Within the CCS, the RDC acts as a remote interface unit to provide high speed input/output of both digital (ARINC 429 and CAN) and analogue (Voltage, Frequency and Discrete) data over an Avionic Full Duplex Switched Ethernet (AFDX) network, which reduces the amount of aircraft wiring and thereby reduces aircraft weight, cost and recurring maintenance costs.  Roles and responsibilities: Software Verification Engineer  • Develop the RTRT test script for the given operation  • Execute with the Target board.  • Analyze ARINC, AFDX and CAN bus data analysis  • Generate the report files and deliver to the customer  Environment:: STRS, Ethereal, and CANalyzer Software Engineer HCL Technologies Ltd October 2005 to August 2007 10. Project: ATE (Oct 05 - Aug'07)  Automated Test Equipment (ATE) consists of test hardware and its accompanying software. It is rugged test equipment for use in the production line to automate the product testing. The heart of the ATE is a computer, which is used to interface/control various patient simulators, test instruments and external test equipment's such as Uson Leak Tester, HASS Tester and Electrical Safety Tester. The ATE software running in the Industrial PC provides test stimulus to the ATE Peripherals and measure the output from the UUT to determine if the UUT has performed to its specifications. ATE will communicate with MES (Manufacturing Engineering System) over Ethernet and with UUT (Unit under Test) through ESS (External Support Software).  Roles and responsibilities: Developer  • Coding in C#.NET based on the design  • Performed the unit testing for the modules assigned  • Performed the Integration testing  Environment: MS Visual Studio .NET 2005, C#, SQL Server 2000, XML Developer HCL Technologies Ltd March 2005 to July 2005 11. Project: CMS 800 (Mar 05 - Jul'05)  CMS-800 (Cabin Management System) is a distributed, fault-tolerant system that provides the entertainment and aircraft cabin management services for the small business jets. The CMS-800 application runs on all the Digital Interface Boxes (DIB) in the system and is driven by the DIB configuration. The entertainment services are provided by the help of Encoder DIBs (EDIB) and Decoder DIBs (DDIB). The analog input from the Audio/Video source equipment's (Air show 4000, VHS, DVD player, etc.) are encoded by the Codec Engine in EDIBs and is sent over the IEEE 1394B backbone network to the DDIB. The Codec Engine in DDIB decodes this data and displays the audio/video content on the output devices (LAM, Bulkhead display, etc.)  The cabin services like controlling lighting system of the aircraft, window shades and environmental control systems are carried out by the LRU and Logic handlers. The MDSB engine enables the handlers to communicate with CMS devices (TSE, PCU, etc.) connected to the DIB over the MDSB network. The Diagnostics Manager component is responsible for Event/Fault Logging and Software Download.  Roles and responsibilities: Developer  • Development using C#.Net  • Unit testing for the modules assigned  • Performed the Integration testing  Environment: MS Visual Studio .NET 2003, C#.NET, XML Education BACHELOR OF ENGINEERING IN ELECTRONICS AND COMMUNICATION in ELECTRONICS AND COMMUNICATION ARULMIGU KALASALINGAM COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING, MADURAI KAMARAJ UNIVERSITY - Srivilliputtur, Tamil Nadu April 2004 HIGHER SECONDARY CERTIFICATE THIYAGARAJA HIGHER SECONDARY SCHOOL - Srivilliputtur, Tamil Nadu March 2000 SECONDARY SCHOOL CERTIFICATE THIYAGARAJA HIGHER SECONDARY SCHOOL - Srivilliputtur, Tamil Nadu April 1998 Skills .NET (10+ years), VISUAL STUDIO (10+ years), C# (6 years), SQL SERVER (7 years), SQL (7 years) Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information SkiLLS  • Programming Language: C#.NET, WPF, WinForms  • Web Technologies: HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, Angular JS  • Database: Postgres, MySQL, SQL Server 2014  • Framework: .Net Framework, Entity Framework, Prism & Unity, ADO.Net  • Test Framework: Microsoft Unit Test framework  • Process Methodologies: Agile & Scrum, Test Driven Development  • Design Tool/Methodologies: Blend for Visual studio, UML, MS Visio  • Configuration Management: JIRA, Confluence, Bit Bucket, TFS, Clear case  • Profiler: Red gate ANTS profiler, .Net CLR memory profiler