Sr. Java Developer Sr. Java <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Developer - ESI Franklin Lakes, NJ 10+ years of IT experience in Java, J2ee programming on various application servers. Experience comprising multiple project phases on Pharmacy, Health Insurance, Digital Marketing, Banking, Insurance, E-commerce, Telecom, Trade finance and Retail domains  • Expertise in developing Web based Distributed and Front-End applications in a three-tier architecture using Java, J2EE, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, DWR  • Deep Knowledge in designing and developing enterprise applications using J2EE technologies, JSP, Servlets, JavaBans, JDBC, JNDI, JMS,EJB 2.1  • Extensive experience in MVC frameworks using Struts and Spring  • Hands on experience in Java Web Services using SOAP, WSDL and CXF Framework  • Extensive in developing APIs for REST web service using Rest Easy and Jax-rs  • Hands on experience in integration frameworks using JBoss EAP 6.1 includes Apache Camel.  • Experience in ORM tools Hibernate 3.0 and JPA.  • Expertise in XML and related technologies like XSL, XSLT, X-PATH and JAXP (SAX, DOM) parsers.  • Hands on experience in Java/J2EE design patterns.  • Expertise in implementing web applications using IBM WebSphere 5.0/6.0/6.1, Jboss EAP, WebLogic, Apache Tomcat Server, Jetty.  • Expertise in Build tools using Maven and Ant.  • Proficient with various J2EE IDE's like RAD 7.0, WSAD 6.0, IntelliJ and Eclipse 3.2/3.4  • Experience with Git, PVCS, SVN, Clear case, Perforce, and CVS versioning tools.  • Strong Experience in database design using Oracle Oracle 8i/9i/10g/11g, DB2, MySql, MongoDB and MrkLogic  • Experience in working with different operating systems Windows 98/NT/XP/7, UNIX/LINUX  • Experience in Junit frameworks like Mockito, easy mock.  • Experience in project management tools like JIRA, Rally and CMS  • Strong experience in different phases of Software Development Life cycle (SDLC) including Design, Implementation and Testing during development of software applications.  • Expert in agile methodologies viz., Incremental and Iteration methodology.  • Expertise in Production Support tools Maximo, Intrascope, Layer 7 Policy Manager, New relic and Splunk.  • Experience in 24x7 on call support, involving troubleshooting, Incident diagnosis and problem resolution.  • Expert in Root Cause Analysis, overall systems testing and migration of platforms and applications to production Work Experience Sr. Java Developer ESI - Franklin Lakes, NJ March 2018 to Present CommPlatform Transformation)    Responsibilities:  • Implemented functionality with micro services architecture using Rest APIs, spring boot and pivotal cloud foundry.  • Created Services to consume rest API's to communicate between components using Dependency injection provided by spring.  • Developed persistence layer using Hibernate/JPA.  • Written SQL queries to perform the Database Operations.  • Used Mongo DB to store non-relational data into collection and retrieve data.  • Used LDAP for user security creational authentication and validating the user roles.  • Used Postman/SoapUI to test the Restful API for HTTP requests.  • Worked on setting up Maven scripts to build, package, and deploy application code to the target spring boot Servers and worked on continuous integration like Jenkins.  • Deployed the applications on Pivotal Cloud Foundry.  • Used Git for Version controlling system to merge the code.  • Developed Junit test classes using Mockito framework.  • Used Jacoco Code coverage tool in Junit.  • Use SonarQube for maintain the code quality of the application  • Implemented Log4j for debug the application.  • Bi-weekly sprints using agile development methodologies.  • Used JIRA project management tool for tracking project developments status.    Environment: Java 1.7/1.8, Spring, Spring Boot 1.5, Jax-rs, SOAP, JSON, XML, Maven3.x, Log4j, Junit4.x, JIRA, Soap UI 5.x, Postman, Eclipse4.5.1, XSLT, X-PATH, Oracle, MongoDB, GIT, Jacoco. Sr. Java Developer (Wealth Management) Deutsche Bank - Baltimore, MD January 2018 to March 2018 Responsibilities:  • Understanding user requirements and functional specifications of the application.  • Designing and construction of application Involved in analysis and design phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  • Developed java application to load the ETL data into Oracle and generate the reports.  • Working on Gate Keeper Feed and LDAP applications.  • Written PL/SQL queries to access the data.  • Used SoapUI for web service testing application.  • Written Junit Test cases.  • Used the Maven to Build and deployed application.  • Used SVN and Git for Version controlling system.  • Used Log4j for debug the application.  • Resolved the defects raised by Integration, UAT and Production.    Environment: Java1.7/1.8, Core Java, Collections, Webservices (SOAP/Rest), XML, Maven3.x, Log4j, Junit4.x, JMS, SoapUI 5.x, Eclipse-Neon, SVN, Git and Oracle. Sr. Java Developer (FDSH) QSSI - Columbia, MD June 2015 to October 2017 Responsibilities:  • Followed Agile Development process and participated in daily scrum meetings.  • Involved in designing, coding, unit testing within monthly sprint.  • Involved in implementing SOA using JBoss EAP.  • Involved in migrating the Application from JBoss ESB to Jboss EAP.  • Used Apache CXF, creation of the clients and endpoints with out annotations.  • Developed the SOA used with apache camel and CXF  • Developed camel routes for end points for camel to sending message from source to destination.  • Developed Framework classes, Base classes and common re-usable components.  • Used various Enterprise integration Pattern in camel to develop the application.  • Written the Spring Bean classes.  • Written the schema validations.  • Used SoapUI for web service testing application for service-oriented architectures (SOA).  • Written quires to access Marklogic database.  • Used CALT project management tool for tracking project developments status.  • Written Junit Test cases and Code coverage using EclEmma tool.  • Used the Maven to Build and deployed application.  • Used SVN for Version controlling system.  • Used Log4j for debug the application.  • Resolved the defects raised by testing team.  • Participated in code review.  • Involved in production support and monitoring tools Mark logic Dashboard, Layer 7 Policy Manager, and New relic.  • Used Splunk tool for pulling the production server logs.  • Prepared the report and sent across the team.    Environment: Java 1.7/1.8, Spring, Web Services (SOAP), ESB, XML, Camel, JBoss EAP6.4, Maven3.x, Log4j, Junit4.x, JMS, CALT, Soap UI 5.x, Eclipse4.5.1, XSLT, X-PATH, EclEmma, SVN, MarkLogic 7.x. Java Developer (Program Everest) Germania Insurance - Brenham, TX January 2015 to April 2015 Responsibilities:  • Involved in development and scrum meetings using agile methodology.  • Participated in design, discussion, estimations and team meetings.  • Prepared the HLD's using Micro-soft Visio.  • Prepared the Technical Detail design document.  • Implemented Claim Number generation and Geo-code mapping functionality.  • Implemented Restful web service publishing and consuming using jersey implementation.  • Implemented Auth security for Restful web service.  • Written Dependency Injection (DI) or Inversion of Control (IOC) using application context xml file.  • Implemented communication between two applications using JMS.  • Used Soap UI for testing the web services  • Implemented Mongo DB the data is stored in form of JSON style document  • Used Rally project management tool for tracking project developments status.  • Written Junit Test cases.  • Built and deployed application using Maven.  • Used Git for Version controlling system.  • Used Log4j for debug the application.  • Reviewed the code developed by peers.    Environment: Java.1.7, Spring, Restful, Web Services (SOAP), JSON, XML, Maven, Log4j, Elipse, Junit, Git, JMS, Rally, Jenkins, Jetty, Toad, MySQL. Java Programmer (Symphony) Williams Lea - Chicago, IL November 2012 to December 2014 Responsibilities:  • Involved in design discussions, estimations and team meetings.  • Implemented the Endpoints using Restful web services.  • Involved in developing code for obtaining bean references in spring framework using Dependency Injection (DI) or Inversion of Control (IOC).  • Developed Spring DAO to access the Database.  • Developed business logic and DAO layer using spring.  • Implemented Restful web services in java with JAX-RS reference implementation Jersey.  • Used Rest Client for testing the Restful web services.  • Used JMeter for load and performance testing of application  • Written Junit Test cases using Mockito and Performed code coverage using Emma tool.  • Built and deployed application using Maven.  • Used JIRA project management tool for tracking team plans.  • Fixed issues raised by the testing team.  • Used JENKINS for continuous integration build and GIT for Version controlling system  • Followed Agile methodology    Environment: Java, Spring, RESTful Web services, JSON, JMeter, Rest Client, Maven, Log4j, Eclipse, Emma, Mockito (Junit), Git-stash, STE, Tomcat, JIRA, Glassfish, and MySQL. Software Engineer Bank of America - Newark, DE July 2011 to November 2012 Ecommerce Online Banking)    Responsibilities:  • Understanding user requirements and functional specifications of the application.  • Involved in designing and construction of application, Involved in analysis and design phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  • Implemented UI components using HTML, JSP, JavaScript and CSS.  • Developed application based on Spring Web module and the application uses Struts to handle the Web request.  • Implemented server-side validations using Struts validator framework.  • Involved in developing code for obtaining bean references in spring framework using Dependency Injection (DI) or Inversion of Control (IOC).  • Implemented DAO components using Spring DAO and JDBC.  • Developed transaction management using Spring JDBC and Spring AOP.  • Involved in development of Web services using JAX-WS and JAX-RS.  • Developed REST APIs for communication to external application, application integration.  • Used Soap UI for testing the SOAP and Rest Full Web services.  • Developed Xml parser (SAX/Dom) to convert java objects to xml and xml to java objects.  • Handled Asynchronous calls using JMS.  • Written SQL queries and Stored procedures for Database operations.  • Good experience in development and maintenance/production support, through On-call Support both onsite and through work-from-home (non-office hours); troubleshooting.  • Working on issue resolutions and fixing the production issues.  • Developed Performance graph dashboards for Intro scope for all applications and datacenters.  • Used the SPLUNK tool for pulling the application logs.  • Worked with SVN for Version controlling files.  • Written Maven scripts to build and generate WAR file.  • Used LOG4J & JUnit for debugging, testing and maintaining the system state.    Environment: Java1.5, Spring2.5, JSP, JSTL, JavaScript, Struts1.x, Web Service, (SOAP/REST), POJO's, CSS, log4j, JAX-WS, JAX-RS, Websphear6.1, Oracle9i, JUnit, SVN, Maven, DWR, RAD 7.0, DB2, Splunk, Intrascope, Oracle, XML, SAX, DOM. Software Engineer (Client Notice) Florida Department of Children and Families - Tallahassee, FL March 2011 to May 2011 Responsibilities:  • Design and implementation of user interface using JSP, HTML and JavaScript.  • Implemented Web components using Struts MVC to handle user requests.  • Developed Java utility classes for business logic.  • Developed DAO components using JDBC.  • Developed Adapter classes to interact with mainframe data.  • Involved in implementing Duplicate Request processing, Pub version and Formatter functionality.  • Worked with ClearCase for Version controlling files.  • Implemented services and interacted with other applications using SOAP.  • Developed Procedures and cursors for database operations.  • Build and deploy application using Maven tool.  • Used Junit framework for executing the Unit test cases.    Environment: Java1.6, JSP, Servlets, Struts1.3, Web Services, SOAP, WSDL, JavaScript, Maven HTML, Log4j, Eclipse, ClearCase, WebLogic 9.1, SQL Developer, Junit, Oracle9i and Mainframe. Software Engineer (PAEUS) CNA - Chicago, IL October 2010 to January 2011 Responsibilities:  • Actively involved in development and Scrum meetings using agile methodology.  • Developed UI interfaces using JSP, HTML, JavaScript and AJAX.  • Involved in implementation of client side validations using JavaScript.  • Implemented struts action classes to handle web request.  • Developed EJB session beans for Business logic.  • Implemented Container managed truncations using EJBs.  • Developed java utility classes, session beans to communicate with hibernate.  • Developed Hibernate hbm & configuration files for mapping Java classes with Oracle Database tables.  • Hibernate Query Language (HQL) as the Persistence Framework, for mapping the object. Oracle as the Database.  • Worked on Web Services by using SOAP messages as communication between the client and server  • Implemented Dom parsers to read the xml document.  • Utilized Log4j for logging application-debugging logs.  • Worked with PVCS for Version controlling files.  • Used SQL Developer to perform the Database operations.  • Developed & executed Junit test cases in Unit testing.  • Used Maven tool to build and deploy the application.    Environment: Java 1.5, Servlets, JSP, Struts1.3 EJB 2.0, JNDI, Java Beans, AJAX, RAD7.0, WebSphere 6.1, Hibernate 3.0, TOAD, XML, PVCS, JavaScript, DOM, SAX, DTD, XML Schemas, Oracle 9i, Log4j, DB2, Junit. Software Engineer MACYS - San Francisco, CA July 2010 to September 2010 DyCES)    Responsibilities:  • Interacted with business managers to transform requirements into technical solutions.  • Followed agile methodology.  • Implemented GUI using J SP, HTML, JavaScript, and DWR. JAX implementation using DWR and Java script.  • Created Action Forms, Action classes, and Model classes, and specified Action Mappings using struts framework.  • Implemented DAO components using Spring DAO and JDBC.  • Implemented server side validation using Struts-validator framework.  • Implemented Transaction management using Spring JDBC.  • Implemented Add to Bag and RTO Services functionality.  • Created Facade layer in Java, Spring IOC.  • Written SQL queries and Stored procedures for Database operations.  • Implemented Service components using Spring, web services for remote function callings.  • Unit testing using Junit framework.  • Successfully implemented modules independently and within a group.  • Reviewed the code developed by peers.    Environment: Java1.5, JSP, Servlets, Struts1.3, Spring2.5XML, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, JDBC, Log4j, Eclipse, SVN, Maven, Tomcat3.4, Mingle, Toad and DB2, Oracle9i. Software Engineer (Reseller Processing for VSNL) Tata Consultancy Services - Mumbai, Maharashtra December 2009 to May 2010 Responsibilities:  • Involved in preparing UI components using JSPs, HTML, and JavaScript.  • Implemented Struts on the Model View Controller design pattern for handling web request.  • Implemented struts Validator framework for handling server-side validation.  • Designed and developed business components using Session beans in EJB.  • Implemented Bean managed transaction-using EJBs.  • Developed DAO components using JDBC to access the databases.  • Involved in preparing the system specification documents.  • Written and executing the Junit test cases.  • Built the applications using Ant tool.    Environment: Java1.5, JSP, Servlets, Struts1.2, EJB 2.0, XML, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, JDBC, Log4j, Junit, ANT, Eclipse3.2, Toad, VSS, Oracle, Tomcat. Software Engineer TRIMS for Citi Group - Mumbai, Maharashtra June 2008 to December 2009 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the application, requirement gathering, design analysis and code development  • Prepared the Impact Analysis, Impact summary, Impact checklist, Estimation documents.  • Involved in development of web pages using JSP, HTML, DWR, Tiles and JavaScript.  • Implemented AJAX calls using DWR framework.  • Implemented Spring web module to integrate with Struts framework for handle user request.  • Written Dependency Injection (DI) or Inversion of Control (IOC) using application context xml file.  • Written Spring DAO and JDBC classes to access databases and manage the transactions.  • Written SQL, Procedures and Cursors to creating database tables and accessing data.  • Implemented asynchronous calls using JMS.  • Developed remote calls using Web Services (SOAP).  • Involved in Defect fixing raised at SIT and UAT.  • Performed Unit testing using Junit.  • Built & deployed the application using Maven.  • Attended client and project management team meeting.    Environment: Java1.5, JSP, Servlets, Struts1.2, Tiles, AJAX (DWR), Spring.2.5, JavaScript, HTML, Web Services, SOAP, WSDL, SOAPUI, JMS, CSS, Log4J, Junit3.8.1, PVCS, Toad, Eclipse/My Eclipse, Tomcat 5.x and Oracle 9i Maven. Education Master of Computer Applications in Computer Applications Kakatiya University 2004 Bachelor of Computer Science in Computer Science Kakatiya University 2001 Skills JIRA, JUNIT, ANT, CLEARCASE, MAVEN Additional Information Technical skills:    J2EE Technologies Struts 1.x, Spring 1.x,2.x/3.x, EJB 2.x, Hibernate 2.0/3.0, JDBC 2.1/3.0, Servlets, JSP, JNDI, JMS, Junit, JAXB, JAXP, REST, Web Services.  Languages Java1.6, 1.7, 1.8, J2EE, PL/SQL, SQL, XML, XSL, XSLT, X-PATH.  Application Server / Web Server  IBM WebSphere Application Server 5.0/6.0/6.1, Apache Tomcat 5.x/7.0, WebLogic Application Server 8.1/9.1, JBOSS EAP 6.1 and Spring Boot 1.5.    Web Technologies HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, DWR.  IDEs IBM WebSphere Application Developer 6.1, Eclipse, RAD7.x, STE.  Database Oracle 8i/9i/10g/11g, DB2, MySQL, MarkLogic7.X, MongoDB  Database Tools Win SQL, SQL Developer, Toad.  Operating Systems Linux, UNIX, Windows 7/2000/XP/NT  Configuration ClearCase, CVS, Perforce, PVCS, SVN, Git.  Others Maven, ANT, Jira, JMeter, Maximo, Introscope, Splunk, SoapUI, Postman