Webmaster and Graduate Teaching Assistant Webmaster and Graduate Teaching Assistant Full-stack Developer Bridgeport, CT Qualified and skilled Full-Stack Developer with attentive and motivated nature. Possess 10+ years of hands-  on programming experience, and background in training. Proficient in C/C++, C#, .NET, Java, STL, OOP and  Multi-threading. experienced developing, testing, and maintaining enterprise software applications. Proficient  in database development, front-end and back-end programming.    PROFESSIONAL SUMMARY  - 10+ years of professional experience in analysis, design, development and testing of web and distributed  n-tier applications using Java / J2EE, C/C++, C# and .NET technologies  - Strong skills with an understanding and development experience in Web Services, XML, SOAP, Restful  webservices, J2EE and .NET.  - Strong knowledge in creating Unified Modeling Language (UML) diagrams such as Use Case Diagrams,  Activity Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams, Class Diagrams and Deployment Diagrams using Rational Rose,  Microsoft Visio.  - Proficient in Web development using Angular 2.0/4.0, HTML5, CSS, AJAX, J-Query, EXT-JS, JSON,  JavaScript and Bootstrap.  - Experience in implementing Web Services based on Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) using SOAP,  WSDL and Restful Web Services.  - Extensive experience in working on IDEs like Eclipse, Net Beans, Visual Studio.  - Good exposure with Application servers middleware technologies like, Web Servers like Apache Tomcat  and IIS.  - Experience in working with various databases like Oracle, MS SQL Server, MySQL and Interbase, and  strong knowledge in SQL, PL/SQL, Stored Procedures, Functions, Triggers and Cursors.  - Experience working with Performance Tuning engineers in analyzing the issues that are hindering the  performance of the application.    TECHNIC AL SKILL S  Languages C/C++, Java, C# and Python  JAVA/J2EE Servlets, JSP (EL, JSTL, Custom Tags), JSF, Hibernate, Apache Tomcat  ASP.NET MVC, J2EE, Windows Forms, WCF, Entity Framework (Code First and  Database First), Spring MVC, JSP, JDBC, JavaFX, .Net Core, Microservices, SQL,  Technologies JavaScript, HTML5/CSS3, Bootstrap, JQUERY, AngularJS, JSON, REST, XML, LINQ,  HTTP, Apache Tomcat.  Web Angular 2.0/4.0, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, XML, JavaScript, JSP, Servlets,  Technologies Bootstrap, jQuery, JSTL, XML, Web services (SOAP, WSDL, Axis), RESTful  webservices  Database Oracle, MS SQL SEVER, MySQL, PL/SQL  Web Services SOAP, WSDL, REST  Tools & IDEs Eclipse, Net Beans, Visual Studio, Embarcadero RAD Studio  Frameworks Entity Framework, Hibernate, Spring MVC  Design patterns, Service Oriented Architecture, Client/Server Application, Algorithms, Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Webmaster and Graduate Teaching Assistant The University of Bridgeport - Bridgeport, CT January 2017 to Present • Provide web design, web development, and web content management.  • Serve as Webmaster for the website on an ongoing basis, completing content updates.  • Assist Professor, with instructing graduate level courses entitled Object-Oriented Programming with Design  Patterns Using C++ CPSC501, Advanced Java CPSC410, Advanced Object-Oriented programming CPSC411 and Analysis of Algorithms CPSC502.  • Assist Professor with instructing graduate level courses entitled Web-Based Application Development  CPSC-555 and Computer Vision CPEG585.  • Develop and review all in class and homework assignments to evaluate students' knowledge of the material.  • Host weekly office hours to answer and address any inquiries or concerns about the class. Full Stack Developer National Advanced System CO (NASCO) - MOTOROLA Distributor - Riyadh, SA January 2009 to July 2016 Performed the analysis, the design, the implementation and the testing of various full-stack web and desktop  applications, including database development, front-end and back-end programming, such as Human  Resources Management System, Warehousing and inventory control system, Import and Export mailing  System.  • Developed Frequency Analyzer system, which has been a great asset since 2014 helping to achieve the optimal distribution for communication channels across different regions using C++ and MS SQL Server.  • Designed project requirements in cooperation with data analysis team.  • Responsible for maintaining, fixing defects adding new functionalities to legacy systems.  • Designed MVC architecture and developed user interface components using DHTML, HTML, Servlets, javascript, ajax, Angular.js, HTML  • Involved in developing, deploying various web applications using java, Angular.js, spring, Hibernate, JPA, Junit, MS SQL.  • Involved in developing, deploying various web applications using C#, Angular.js, Entity Framework and MS SQL.  • Implemented design patterns and Server side development - Factory and Service Locater patterns, and the business logic using Spring DI Service components.  • Developed Web service modules based on SOA architecture using SOAP  • Implemented the business layer by using Hibernate with Spring DAO and developed mapping files and POJO java  classes using ORM tool.  • Wrote various Hibernate Queries using Hibernate Query Language (HQL) and hibernate criterion queries to execute queries against database.  • Developed complex service components for Data Access Layer, DAO classes to interact with backend using Java  and Hibernate Framework  • Developed reusable and interoperable Web service modules based on SOA architecture using SOAP and RESTFUL.  • Developed use case diagrams, class diagrams, database tables, and provided mapping between relational database  tables and object oriented java objects using Hibernate.  • Experience in using MAVEN tool to compile, package and deploy the components to the Application Servers in different environments.  • Experienced in Performance Tuning, Creating new Database and Backup.  • Created Stored Procedures using Pl/SQL, functions, triggers in MSSQL server and Oracle to fetch required data.  • Developed Document Management System, encompassing design, coding, testing, and maintenance for over 1000-person company using C++. Education Master's in Computer Science in Computer Science University of Bridgeport, School of Engineering - Bridgeport, CT December 2018 Bachelor's in Computer Science in Computer Science Mansoura University, School of Computer & Information Sciences 2005 Skills Object oriented programming, Machine learning, Computer vision, C++ (10+ years), Java (10+ years), c#, Python, J2EE, .NET, Spring, MVC, Entity Framework, Spring Framework, Jsp, JDBC, JavaFX, SQL, Javascript, CSS3, JQuery, AngularJS, JSON, REST, XML, LINQ, HTTP, Apache Tomcat, Oracle, SQL Server, MySQL, Design patterns, Parallel Computing, Restful webservices, SOAP, Web Services, HTML5, Bootstrap, Eclipse, Visual Studio, PL/SQL, Stored Procedures, Hibernate, Angular, NET, Angular Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/alaa-elsaka-3aa145147/ Certifications/Licenses Oracle Database SQL Certified Expert October 2010 to Present https://www.youracclaim.com/badges/fff1e699-29c8-4bf6-a9f5-3fa693f2a37d/linked_in_profile Additional Information Methodologies Object Oriented Programming (OOP), Parallel Computing, Computer Vision and  Machine Learning.