Software Development Engineer II <span class="hl">Software</span> Development Engineer II Software Developer Seattle, WA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Development Engineer II Amazon.com - Seattle, WA March 2018 to Present Developed, tested, and managed services for Alexa Identity and Prime MFA Platforms.    Responsible for development, testing, deployment, operations, monitoring and business intelligence for large-scale services. Author Seattle, WA January 2014 to Present Senior Software Engineer Microsoft - Seattle, WA November 2012 to December 2015 Adapted the Trident HTML-rendering engine to use next-generation input and composition technologies when hosted in modern HTML and XAML applications. Updated Trident to use modern interfaces for various input methods, including on-screen keyboards and Asian character entry. Updated Trident to work effectively with modern screen readers and other assistive technology (AT) tools. Updated and extended Trident's accessibility code to support the latest version of the ARIA standard. Senior Lead SDE Microsoft - Seattle, WA June 2010 to November 2012 Lead the Sites team of four developers in building SharePoint 2013. My team owned the core SharePoint CSS and master pages, theming, navigation, sharing, site templates, wiki editing, people controls and many other features. Lead the dev effort across the team for Office 2010 SP1. Lead the initial team effort to make our parts of SharePoint work in the cloud, and continued to own the SharePoint Online on-call and support experiences across the team.  Developed several features, including the Site Notebook, various navigation improvements and Project NoScript, a SharePoint-wide effort to limit XSS vulnerabilities. Lead the SODA (SharePoint On Demand Applications) Microsoft - Seattle, WA December 2006 to June 2010 Senior SDE December 2006 to June 2010  Developed the design surface for the XSLTListView web part in SharePoint Designer 2010 - extended the WYSIWYG HTML/XSL editing features in the FrontPage/SPD codebase to support the new SharePoint list view technology developed for Office 2010. Primary challenges included developing algorithms for code generation and maintaining editor performance with XSL ~40 times larger than the initial design supported.  Lead the SODA (SharePoint On Demand Applications) development effort between shipping Office 2010 and starting the Office 2013. Senior Software Developer Canon - Phoenix, AZ June 2000 to November 2006 Lead developer for Océ ReproDesk and PlanCenter software. ReproDesk is a document management, workflow, printing and scanning application for the reprographic market. PlanCenter is an online document publishing, synchronization, ordering and management service with both native and AJAX web clients hosting over 2TB of documents. Lead development responsibilities:  • Technical lead for PlanCenter development  • Architectural committee member  • Database design and implementation for all products - schema and procedure code, including xml handing  • Data access code using OLE DB  • Synchronization between web service and client sites  • Installation, configuration and administration of SQL Server and IIS web servers for PlanCenter  • Mentored PlanCenter ASP and JavaScript client developers  • Worked with QA and product support to ensure quality and customer satisfaction  • Office expert in C, C++, Windows API, security, SQL Server, COM, OLE DB and related technologies  Secondary development and maintenance responsibilities:  • ISAPI extension used by both products for dynamic content, publishing and synchronization  • Communication code using WININET, including proxy management and encryption  • Migration of existing data stores from older applications and versions  • Utility code including Windows user management, password hashing, exception handling, SMTP and installation support  • Document zooming servers  • ASP product support utility pages Software Developer Rockwell Automation - Phoenix, AZ June 1996 to June 2000 Worked on the rpmSeries product line, a Windows based client/server batch manufacturing automation suite. Development work was primarily in server and framework components, but also included client applications and interface design. Lead or primary development responsibilities:  • An OLE DB provider for equipment data  • An automated multi-version build system using make and Rational ClearCase  • An MSI based install program for the product suite  • A multi-product licensing system with software and hardware keys  • Digital signature features  • A multi-machine service management applet  Other development responsibilities:  • A client security system  • Several Windows services  • Adding COM interfaces to existing MFC server components  • Maintenance and functional updates in configuration and client applications Software Engineer Honeywell IAC - Phoenix, AZ June 1992 to June 1996 Worked with senior engineers to define new product functionality. Lead two other engineers in designing and implementing a tcp/ip socket based communication and data transformation service for this new product. Coordinated product development with hardware team. Acted as a local Unix expert and system administrator. Provided customer site support and training. Participated in Professional Excellence Program, which included assignments in customer projects and advanced control applications groups. Summer Intern Honeywell IAC - Phoenix, AZ June 1988 to 1991 Developed a library of advanced mathematics routines, including matrix arithmetic. Performed system integration testing and developed an automated testing framework. Education Graduate Study and Teaching Assistantship UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON - Seattle, WA September 1991 to June 1992 Bachelor of Science in Engineering Mathematics in Mathematics and Computer Science UNIVERSITY OF ARIZONA - Tucson, AZ August 1987 to May 1991 Skills C (10+ years), C#, C++ (10+ years), SQL (5 years), Windows (10+ years)