Salesforce Lightning Developer Salesforce Lightning <span class="hl">Developer</span> Salesforce Lightning Developer California City, CA • Around 10+ years of IT experience. This involves configuration, customization, integration with external systems and classic to lightning migration, lightning development.  • Experienced in all phases of SDLC, quality management systems and project life cycle process.  • Working expertise in Salesforce configuration, Apex classes, controllers and triggers, Visualforce pages, workflow rules, process builder, validation rules, standard objects, custom objects, Reports and Dashboards.  • Skilled Database Administrator and working experience of Work bench, SQL, SOQL and SOSL.  • Experience in Salesforce lightning features like activities, contextual Hovers, Opportunity board, Customizable dash board.  • Customized existing Visualforce to align with Salesforce new Lightning UI experience.  • Created multiple Lightning Components, added CSS and Design Parameters that makes the Lightning component look and feel better.  • Used Salesforce Lightning Design System (SLDS) for developing Lightning Components, Actions, Event and Server-Side Controller.  • Creating Lightning Components and used Salesforce SLDS to convert existing Visualforce pages to lightning components.  • Created Apex methods for the lightning controller and helper methods to perform DML operations on the case records.  • Hands-on experience on implementation and integration projects, Web Services, Salesforce API, SOAP API, REST API.  • Excellent knowledge and working experience of Integration and Migration tools-Data Loader, Informatica, Huroku, MuleSoft.  • Strong Hands on experience in Cloud Application Development, Enterprise Application Integrations using Salesforce Cloud Platform, Java, JQuery, Ajax Oracle RDBMS etc.  • Apttus CPQ (Configure Price Quote) is a Lightning-Ready quoting tool built on Salesforce1  • Experienced in Force.com Apex Classes, Apex Triggers, Visual force and Force.com API.  • Experience working with salesforce.com sandbox and production environments.  • Extensive experience in designing, creating and maintaining Salesforce.com Work flow Rules, approvals, Roles, Profiles, Email Templates (HTML & Visual Force Templates).  • Worked on the designing of custom objects, custom fields, Record Types, custom Tabs, custom reports, and design of Visual Force Pages, Snapshots and Dashboards.  • Used Data loader for data management in force.com platform.  • Expertise in developing, deploying and integrating Salesforce.com CRM solutions.  • Sales and Service Cloud implementation along with other custom applications developed on Salesforce.com platform.  • Experience in installing, evaluating the AppExchange application under the salesforce.com platform.  • Implemented and delivered projects under Agile Development Environment and Test-Driven Environments with large & small project teams.  • Good familiarity with Service Cloud and Salesforce Communities.  • Adept at determining end user needs, and in translating those needs into powerful, but easy-to-use software solutions.  • Possess excellent communication, interpersonal and analytical skills along with can-do attitude.  • Expertise in complete Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) like analysis, design and development of Multi-Tier Client/Server and Web based applications.  • Expertise in SQL, PL/SQL, Oracle 9i and MySQL databases.  • Experienced in Software development and business modeling of Web applications, Client/Server Systems, distributed applications and other custom-built projects.  • Possess exposure of working for projects spanning Financial, Business Process Management.  • Good Knowledge of various methodologies like Waterfall and Agile.  • Experience in providing functional and technical support to peer Team members.  • Excellent Client interaction skills and proven experience in working independently as well as in a team.  • Good communication and problem-solving skills.  • Have good working knowledge in querying Salesforce.com database using SOQL & SOSL queries and with web technologies like SOAP, HTML, XML, CSS, WSDL and JSON. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Salesforce Lightning Developer National Science Foundation - Alexandria, VA July 2018 to Present Description: The National Science Foundation (NSF) is an independent federal agency created by Congress in 1950 "to promote the progress of science; to advance the national health, prosperity, and welfare; to secure the national defense" With an annual budget of about $7 billion, NSF is the funding source for approximately 20 percent of all federally supported basic research conducted by America's colleges and universities. In many fields such as mathematics, computer science and the social sciences, NSF is the major source of federal backing.    Responsibilities:  • Performed the role of Salesforce Developer in the organization.  • Technical Knowledge about Salesforce lightning schema builder, process builder, app builder, components and lightning connect.  • Worked on developing Salesforce Lightning Apps, Components, Controllers and Events.  • Upgraded some Apps from Salesforce Classic to Lightning Experience to develop rich user interface and better interaction of pages.  • Good hands on practice with the new Lightning System Design which helps to quickly and easily create modern enterprise apps using Lightning App Builder and Lightning Components Performed.  • Experience in modifying Visualforce pages to be supported in Lightning Experience and good understanding of lightning mode and its features.  • Integrated salesforce data with external systems by writing salesforce REST Web Services for Inbound classes and used Http Request methods to call external application REST API endpoint.  • Used HTTP Callout using JSON to fetch records/data from other system and display them on the fly in the Visualforce Page each time the page opens.  • Design, develop and implement solutions for the APTTUS CPQ system deployed on the Salesforce platform.  • Implemented Quote-to-Cash solution using APTTUS CPQ. Depth understanding of the APTTUS CPQ, APTTUS CLM data model and functionality.  • Designed, developed and deployed Apex Triggers, Apex Classes considering governor limits and various other components as per the client and application requirements.  • Developed Visualforce Pages using standard/custom controllers and extensions as applicable.  • Used Sales Cloud to get the customer information together in an Integrated platform that incorporates marketing, lead generation, sales, customer service and provides access to applications through the AppExchange.  • Worked on Jitterbit to automate the processes of reporting, Data Mapping and connecting it to partner's application.  • Worked on various salesforce standard objects like Leads, Accounts, Contacts, Cases, Roles, Opportunities, and Products.  • Used SOQL & SOSL with consideration to Governor Limits for data manipulation needs of the application using platform database objects.  • Implemented the requirements on salesforce.com platform and Force.com IDE Plug-in using Eclipse.  • Created appropriate data conditioning templates and field mapping files for data loading.  • Implemented complex security & sharing model for orgs with 500+ salesforce users.  • Worked on User's Profiles, Workflow & Approvals, Permission Sets, Roles, Groups, Queues, and Sharing Settings etc.  • Experience in developing salesforce Lightning Apps, Components, Controllers, and Events.  • Worked on different App Exchange Products.  • Developed Lightning UI using AJAX, JavaScript, JQuery and HTML.  • Created custom reports to track the cases, assets to be available to different levels in the organization based on their profiles.  • Implemented Communities in salesforce for the customers.  • Written apex unit test classes for code coverage of apex classes and triggers to promote code to production and implemented salesforce apex annotations like isTest, seeAllData.  • Sound knowledge of Customer Support tools - desk.com, Service Cloud, Marketing Cloud with exact target, Web Analytics.  • Working knowledge of Project Management tools - Asana, Jira, Stack.  • Working exposure to Demand Tool, Financial Force, Salesforce Communities, Mobile Workforce, Salesforce1 Platform.    Environment: Saleforce.com, Apex Classes, Lightning, Apttus CPQ, Controller Classes, REST/SOAP API, Triggers, Visualforce, Salesforce.com Data Loader, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Page layouts, Email Services, SOQL, SOSL, Sandbox, Force.com IDE. Salesforce Developer / Admin Accruent - Austin, TX April 2016 to June 2018 Description: Accruent is a global software company that helps organizations achieve superior performance by transforming how they manage their physical resources. Its innovative, industry-leading cloud-based software and services enable organizations to optimize all stages of real estate, facilities and asset management, from capital planning through to IoT-based monitoring and control.    Responsibilities:  • Created new Apex Triggers, Apex Classes, Batch Classes and Schedule Classes, Email Services According to the Project Requirement.  • Implemented Batch Classes to provide Data Migration without loss of data/ to avoid corruption of data.  • Worked with the user group for requirement gathering throughout the planning and implementation.  • Created new User Accounts and assigned Profiles as per their role in role hierarchy.  • Customized Page layouts for Standard/Custom objects and assigned Record Types.  • Performs day to day administrative tasks and addressing production support issues (unlocking / re-setting passwords, modifying data, and creating ad hoc reports)  • Used SOQL & SOSL with consideration to Governor Limits for data manipulation needs of the application using platform database objects.  • Worked with various salesforce.com Standard objects like Accounts, Contacts, Leads, Opportunities, Products, Price book, Cases, Entitlement, Reports and Dashboards.  • Provides training to department employees on the use of the company website and all related systems and processes.  • Created Data Validation rules and Formulas as per business requirement.  • Created Workflow Rules to automate Tasks, Email Alerts, Field Updates, time-dependent actions and Outbound API Messages.  • Performs day to day administrative tasks and addressing production support issues.  • Created Reports and Dashboards to track Opportunity pipeline/Stages for Management visibility.  • Worked with groups, participated in Requirement Gathering Sessions & JAD Sessions to define their needs and developed an action plan and specification document.  • Designed various Webpages in VisualForce for capturing various customer enquiries and Implemented logic for migrating cases to different queues based on the type of customer enquiry.  • Created and used Email templates in HTML and VisualForce.  • Used SVN Subversion as Code Repository.  • Created Custom Buttons Using JavaScript. Implemented Single Sign On in salesforce.  • Developed reports, dashboards, and processes to continuously monitor data quality and integrity  • Experienced with salesforce to outlook, Web analytics, Desk.com, JIRA, ASANA, Slack, Tibco, PeopleSoft, Oracle.    Environment: Saleforce.com, Apex Classes, Batch Classes, Controller Classes, Triggers, Visualforce, Salesforce.com Data Loader, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Page layouts, Email Services, SOQL, SOSL, Sandbox, Force.com IDE. Salesforce Developer Sunnova Energy Corporation - Houston, TX August 2013 to March 2016 Description: Sunnova is a different kind of Power Company, and our business strategy proves it. We partner with the best and brightest solar experts in the areas we serve to provide customers nationwide with low-cost, worry-free solar power while supporting the local economy. So, when you choose Sunnova, you're not only choosing to lower your energy costs for 25 years. you're also making a decision that's good for your community and the environment. And that's a choice everybody can live with.    Responsibilities:  • Implemented the requirements on Force.com platform and Force.com IDE Plug-in using Eclipse.  • Multiple projects handled at one time focusing with Integration, Implementation, Customization, and Configuration on billing database Worked as On-site coordinator for All Projects and RFE's to Offshore Team & worked as an Associate PM.  • Created custom objects, custom Fields, Validation Rules, and formula fields, Workflows.  • Integrated the Web Services by generating the necessary stubs from the WSDL files for extracting the data from the home-grown applications by using the home grown web services and Soap/Rest API.  • Troubleshoot networks, systems, and applications to identify and correct malfunctions and other operational problems.  • Developed scripts to load forecast data from salesforce.com.  • Packaged and Deployed customizations from Sandbox to other environments using Force.com IDE's.  • Worked on agile scrum environment and world's first commercial Software as a Service (SAAS) application running in marketing Cloud Computing Environment.  • Worked on Marketing Cloud with Exact target, salesforce and their billing system application "Aria".  • Experience with Financial Force, Salesforce Communities, Service Cloud.  • Created and used Email templates in HTML and VisualForce Used JQuery and Rest Web services for Vendor UI.    Environment: Saleforce.com, Apex Classes, Controller Classes, Triggers, Visualforce, Salesforce.com Data Loader, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Page layouts, Email Services, SOQL, SOSL, Sandbox, Force.com IDE. Salesforce developer Rodan + Fields, LLC - San Ramon, CA February 2011 to July 2013 Description: Value Labs is an global IT services and consulting company that provides information technology and business consulting services.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in Salesforce.com application setup activities and customized the Apps to match the functional needs of the organization.  • Interacted with various business team members to gather the requirements and documented the requirements.  • Worked with various salesforce.com objects like, Accounts Contacts, Leads, Opportunities, Reports and Dashboards.  • Developed APEX Classes, Controller Classes and Triggers for various functional needs in the application.  • Developed and deployed Workflows and Approval processes for Opportunities and Products/ Assets Management.  • Implemented the requirements on salesforce.com platform and force.com IDE plug-in using Eclipse.  • Successfully established a new lead follow-up procedure which shortened the response time to qualified leads and generated more meetings for the account executives.  • Created and used email templates in HTML and Visualforce.  • Create Dashboard and Reports for the business users.  • Used the Sandbox for testing and migrated the code to the deployment instance after testing.  • Responsible for all the activities related to configuring Data loader, uploading data in .csv files into Salesforce.com, checking for the correctness of the data.  • Worked with Salesforce.com team to make application certified.    Environment: Saleforce.com platform, Apex Language, Visual Force (Pages, Component & Controllers), Pages, Data Loader, HTML, Java Script, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Email Services, Security Controls, Sandbox data loading, Eclipse IDE Plug-in, Windows. Software Development Engineer ASG Technologies - Purchase, NY February 2009 to January 2011 Description: CMC Limited is a leading system engineering and integration offering application design, development, testing services and asset-based solutions in niche segments through turnkey projects for mission critical systems. CMC has also been expanding its service presence in international markets offering offshoring advantages and delivering value through service level-based and project scope-based deliveries.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in analysis and design of the application architecture based on MVC Architecture, used open source Struts framework and Database with new field updates added to the legacy system.  • Worked on SOAP Web services using C++ in multi-threaded application development processing XML requests. Used various data structures, algorithms. C/C++ interface to retrieve/update info from/to the DB.  • Developed multithreaded cache offline program in C++ to support various UIs to deliver/process data for a scalable, high throughput, low latency applications.  • Wrote and customized several Java Programs for the spend management system at SBI to streamline the process of procurement. Web Tier was developed by using Struts Frame Work.  • Involved in Application development with IDE Tool Eclipse and web server Tomcat.  • Designed and developed User Interfaces, Menus using HTML, CSS, DHTML, JSP, JavaScript and client-side & server-side validations. Created front-end screens for the module by using JSP's.  • JavaBeans have been developed for using them among various modules of the application.  • Used PL/SQL, Stored Procedures and table level and system level triggers for handling database processing and for generating analysis reports from MS SQL Server.  • Involved in writing XML parser handlers for parsing XML files and filling JavaBean Objects.  • Used SVN for Source Control and Version Management.  • Involved in Module and Unit Level Testing with JUnit, participated in database tuning.    Environment: HTML, Java Script, Struts, SOAP web services, XML, Eclipse, Tomcat, C/C++, CSS, DHTML, JSP, JavaScript, PL/SQL, MS SQL, SVN, JUnit, Windows. Education Bachelor's Bachelor's Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  SFDC  Apex, VisualForce, Lightning Framework, Lightning Components, Force.com IDE, SOQL, SOSL, Triggers, Components, Controllers, Custom/ Standard Objects, Reports and Dashboards, Analytic Snapshots, Custom Objects, Web services.    SFDC Tools  Force.com IDE, Force.com Explorer, Apttus CPQ, Eclipse Plug-in, Maven, Jenkins, Jitter bit, Outlook Express, Data Loader, Excel Connector, RIVA, Chatter, App Exchange.    Database Oracle 10g/ 9i, SQL Server, My SQL, DB2.  Programming Languages SQL, PL/SQL, C, C++, Java, Apex, Visualforce.  Web Technologies HTML, CSS, Java Script, Dreamweaver, and XML, JSON, Java/J2ee, JDBC, JSP, Servlets, Struts.  Operating Systems Windows, Sun Solaris, UNIX, and MS-DOS.  Servers & Other Tools Web logic, Websphere6, Tomcat/Apache2.2, MS Office Products (Word, Excel, PowerPoint)