Software Development Manager <span class="hl">Software</span> Development Manager Software Development Manager - Videa LLC, a Cox company Work Experience Software Development Manager Videa LLC, a Cox company - Atlanta, GA January 2017 to Present • Build and manage 2 scrum teams (1 onshore and 1 offshore).  • Provide servant leadership to scrum teams, with a focus on building and maintaining healthy  and high functioning teams.  • Work with teams to migrate 90% of on-prem services and applications to AWS EKS.  • Lead the effort to set up automation tests, CI/CD and on-demand deployment.  • Work with Product, Architects and Tech Ops to plan, design and build software and systems the right ways; Work with multiple teams to deliver many large-scale cross-team/division projects  from end to end.  • Establish processes and monitor adherence to established processes, such as branching/merging, patching, code reviews, and work item hygiene; Provide corrections as  necessary.  • Participate in scrum ceremonies: daily scrum, planning, backlog refinement and retrospectives  to keep in touch with the work being done, clarify requirements, offer technical guidance, and offer my perspective on what went well and what can be improved.  • Provide coaching, facilitate continuous learning and clear roadblocks.  • Build Order Management and Billing Systems which can handle 800,000+ transactions and  40,000+ orders daily using AWS and Microsoft technologies: AWS EC2, ECS, Lambda, EKS, S3, Kinesis, C# .NET, .NET Core, ASP.NET Core, Web API, Restful service, gRPC, WCF Service, Entity  Framework 6, EF Core, MS SQL Server 2017, Dapper, Angular, ReactJS, Docker Containers, DC/OS, Micro Services, SOA, ETL, RabbitMQ and multi-threading. Senior Software Engineer August 2015 to January 2017 Developed software solutions to streamline the broadcasting TV advertising industry using  C#.NET, Web API, Entity Framework, Microsoft SQL Server, AngularJS, gRPC, Docker Containers, DC/OS and AWS technologies. Sr. Software Developer/Team Lead CBS Corporation - Atlanta, GA January 2013 to August 2015 Designed and developed Digital Asset Management system using AngularJS 1.3, Bootstrap 3, EF6, Web API 2, SQL Server 2012, Microsoft Azure Cloud storage, Brightcove and Aspera APIs  with features like responsive design, tagging, drag and drop file upload, right-click and select  assets, keyword search, asset sharing and Aspera high speed file transfer.  • Redesigned and implemented billion dollar revenue generating network commercial sales, management and traffic system for CBS Network using C#, .NET 4.5, SQL Server 2012, Entity  Framework 5.0, Infragistics 12.2, LINQ, WCF, and MSMQ.  • Worked as Lead Developer to coordinate a team of 5 to implement the billing and invoicing  system for CBS Network. 4 billion dollar worth of all CBS Network advertising revenue goes through my billing system every year. Software Engineer TRADE Financial - Alpharetta, GA August 2010 to January 2013 Enterprise Archiving System  • Researched, designed, and solely developed enterprise-wide, service-based central platform for Regulation 17a-4 compliance data archiving and retrieving API using WCF 3.5, C# .NET 4.0,  Oracle 11g RAC, Apache Active Message Queue and Design Patterns.  • Started by in-depth research of available compliance storages, evaluating business, technical  and regulatory requirements, worked on hardware evaluation and projection, systems, application, and RDBMS design in order to meet the performance, persistence, scalability and  regulatory requirements.  • Provided Web User Interface for SEC, Line of Business, Customer Service and the compliance  department for data research and retrieval with estimated 10,000+ accesses daily.    Reconciliation Enterprise Integration System  • Collaborated with 1 team member to develop and support REI as the Service Framework for clearing technology team to provide integration among scheduler (Control-M), ETL tool (Oracle  Warehouse Builder) and reconciliation application (Fiserv Frontier) using WCF 3.5, C# .NET 4. 0, Microsoft Workflow Foundation, Oracle 11g, Control-M, Oracle Warehouse Builder, Oracle SOA  Suite, Apache ActiveMQ and Fiserv Frontier.  • REI is a loosely coupled collections of services designed with the concept of Service-Oriented  Architecture that provide highly configurable settings, access, visibility, reporting and systems  monitoring.  Calendar Services    • Built Web services to retrieve Brokerage, Bank and other calendar Business Days and Dates  using Oracle SOA Suite and Oracle BPM Suite.  • Automatically transmitted, parsed, validated and populated various calendars using PL/SQL, Oracle Warehouse Builder, Oracle 11g Database, Apache AcitveMQ, Oracle SOA Suite and Oracle  BPM Suite.  • Provided reusability, integration services for 1000+ reports with aging and calendar calculation.  MTech-Systems Atlanta, GA Software Consultant March 2009 to July 2010 Software Developer Live Animal Weighing System June 2006 to August 2008 Designed, developed and took ownership of the Windows Application for capturing weight, scheduling plans and generating reports using Visual Basic 6, .NET, Microsoft SQL Server 2005  and Active Reports. The application was widely used by 10+ poultry industry leaders and LAWS  is the bestselling product of the company. Education Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering in Electrical Engineering Georgia Institute of Technology - Atlanta, GA August 2002 to May 2006 Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/johnny-chu