Senior Software Engineer .Net and MsSql Senior <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer .Net and MsSql Senior Software Engineer, PCI Group Inc Charlotte, NC Dynamic Software professional with 10+ years of IT experience in Software Analysis, Design, Development, Implementation, Testing and Supporting distributed, Client/Server, Web/Windows based business solutions using .Net and SQL Technologies Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Senior Software Engineer .Net and MsSql PCI Group - south carolina September 2017 to Present Project: Dynamics NAV Integration Nov 2018 - Curent    Environment: C#, .NET 4.5 , SQL Server 2016 and Microsoft Dynamics NAV ERP  • Worked as team lead in integrating and implementing Microsoft Dynamics ERP software to our Internal System using .Net and MS Sql Technologies.  • Was in Charge of integrating and transitioning from our legacy ERP system to new system for all our health care and financial clients.  • Worked closely with NAV Consultant and various departments Accounting, Estimating to gather information, design and carefully integrate this new system to internal software.  • Involved in design, coding and testing phases of the project.  • Heavily involved in go live and training Business Managers.  • Studied the requirements and system specifications understand them and followed with coding and testing.  • Created WCF Services responsible for communicating, providing and updating real time data from integrated Microsoft Dynamics NAV Server to Client Application.  • Extensively using Datasets, Datatable of ADO.NET to retrieve and manipulate data and display it in an ASP.NET page and user control.  • Created complex Stored Procedures, Triggers, Views & Functions using SQL Server 2005 • Developed the application using MVC, Entity Data Model and RESTful and WCF services.    Project: Mail Merging Software                                                                   May 2018 – Oct 2018  Team Size: 1  Role: Senior Software Engineer  Environment: C#, .NET 4.5 , SQL Server 2016, Windows Service, Entity Framework, LINQ, Lambda  Worked as an individual contributor in developing the new Mail Merge program for data driven industry.  Heavily involved in requirement gathering, designing, coding, testing and implementing the windows service.  Created the database tables and stored procedures and used Entity Framework in .Net to communicate with service and database.  Extensively used LINQ and Lambda for better code readability.  Transitioned from CoreLogic legacy GMC process to new Mail Merging software.    Project: Print Ready Work Flow                                                          Sep 2017 – April 2018  Team Size: 2  Role: Senior Software Engineer  Environment: C#, .NET 4.5 , SQL Server 2016, Windows Service, Entity Framework, LINQ, Lambda  Worked as a team to creating a new process workflow automation.  Heavily involved in requirement gathering, designing and coding the windows service.  Collaberated with various departments especially GMC Dept to integrate the tool as part of process flow automation.  Heavily involved in transitioning existing and new clients to make use of new process work flow.  Heavily involved in requirement gathering, designing, coding, testing and implementing the windows service.  Created the database tables and stored procedures Full Stack Software Engineer Lead Oneil Digital Solutions - North Carolina January 2016 to September 2017 Project : ONEDms  Environment: C#, .NET 4.0 , SQL Server 2012, IText Sharp, Angular JS    DMS is a system for creating and manage complex document templates, including editing, proofing, composition and production of documents for compliance and regulatory mailings. System have a centralized Document Repository. This system also have an inbuilt Quality Verification process for viewing and approving daily document production.  • Designed web-based document management and workflow application designed to reduce document handling workloads by converting hard copy documents to electronic format.  • Implemented Render proofs/customized documents in real time.  • Performed regression and system-level testing to verify software quality and function before it was released.  • Heavily involved in requirement gathering, designing, coding, testing and implementing the site.  • Integrated the site with webservice for rendering pdfs.  • Responsible for designing advanced and highly complex SQL stored procedures and scripts.  • Studied the requirements and system specifications understand them and followed with coding and testing.  • Created complex Stored Procedures, Triggers, Views & Functions using SQL Server 2005 • Designed, developed, maintained application using C#, ASP.NET 4.0, Angular JS, HTML, CSS.  • Developed the application using MVC and ASP.Net web services. Senior .Net Developer Oneil Digitl Solutions - Los Angeles, CA June 2008 to January 2016 Project: OneClick  Environment: C#, .NET 4.0, SQL Server 2010, IText Sharp, Javascript, CSS    This is an administrative tool for electronic archiving and retrieval of documents that have been previously delivered to our audience.  • Implemented Instant retrieval of documents for viewing online and flexible search criteria with web forms using c#.net and Sql.  • Heavily involved in designing the sql tables, stored procedures, views using MS Sql database.  • Implemented the portal with 4 year online electronic archival system with MS sql.  • Designed pages using Webforms and C# to present the filtered offers.  • Implemented the Single Sign-on capability for clients that use peoplesoft to view documents.  • Implemented Documents re-mailing system upon request on demand.  • Collaborated with SQL server team to configure offers based on different rules.  • Created classes using C#.NET and develop database components to access database using ADO.NET.  • Development of web forms for client-server interaction using C#.net , HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Performing extensive software testing and stringent quality checks as per the QC guidelines to ensure an error free as well as optimum final product to the user.  • Training the end user or client on the final product as well as providing technical support whenever required.  • Designing back end database structures for the web applications and also generating stored procedures that are complex in nature for the software's maintenance purposes.    Project: Tasking and Messaging System  Environment: WebForms, C#, .NET, SQL Server   • Worked as an individual programmer in developing, testing and implementing the messaging and tasking system and integrated to company's Internal Software which is used across all departments.  • Implemented the secure email messaging and attachment system using companies SMTP protocol.  • Worked on presentation layer, the Business and Data Access Layers and were coded using C#.  • Developed application logic using C#.  • Written stored procedures, triggers using SQL in SQL SERVER 2005.  • Worked intensely on the User Interface.  • Developed WebForms using C# and ASP.NET.  • Used AJAX in some webforms.  • Worked on Cascading Style Sheets.    Project: Barcode Capture System  Environment: WebForms, C#, .NET, SQL Server   • Worked as a lead in developing a barcode capture and reporting system that captures the 2D barcode from products flowing through all production machines that helps the shipping department in effective product tracking and shipping.  • Implemented a system for transferring verified barcode from production machines to centralized database system and then further distributes to client databases for reporting.  • Crystal report is created for Shipping Managers for barcode verification and reporting.  • Automated the entire process so that live data from machines are transferred to our centralized database system every moment.    Project: Production Print File Recreating System  Environment: WebForms, C#, .NET, SQL Server, .Net WebServices   • Worked as a lead in developing, testing and implementing the Auto Print File Recreating System which allows the production control department to recreate the damaged printfiles instantly.  • Replaced the legacy manual steps with the new automatic system that helps in meeting customer SLA. Senior .Net Developer January 2015 to June 2015 Environment: C#, .NET 4.0, SQL Server 2010, IText Sharp, Javascript, CSS    This is an administrative tool for electronic archiving and retrieval of documents that have been previously delivered to our audience.  • Implemented Instant retrieval of documents for viewing online and flexible search criteria with web forms using c#.net and Sql.  • Heavily involved in designing the sql tables, stored procedures, views using MS Sql database.  • Implemented the portal with 4 year online electronic archival system with MS sql.  • Designed pages using Webforms and C# to present the filtered offers.  • Implemented the Single Sign-on capability for clients that use peoplesoft to view documents.  • Implemented Documents re-mailing system upon request on demand.  • Collaborated with SQL server team to configure offers based on different rules.  • Created classes using C#.NET and develop database components to access database using ADO.NET.  • Development of web forms for client-server interaction using C#.net , HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Performing extensive software testing and stringent quality checks as per the QC guidelines to ensure an error free as well as optimum final product to the user.  • Training the end user or client on the final product as well as providing technical support whenever required.  • Designing back end database structures for the web applications and also generating stored procedures that are complex in nature for the software's maintenance purposes. Net Developer Production Print File Recreating System August 2012 to July 2013 Environment: WebForms, C#, .NET, SQL Server, .Net WebServices   • Worked as a lead in developing, testing and implementing the Auto Print File Recreating System which allows the production control department to recreate the damaged printfiles instantly.  • Replaced the legacy manual steps with the new automatic system that helps in meeting customer SLA. Programmer Analysts .Net January 2010 to July 2012 Environment: WebForms, C#, .NET, SQL Server, Priya ERP, .Net WebServices   • Worked as an Individual contributor and IT contact person for integrating, testing and implementing the Priya Inventory management system to our Internal site and parts receiving department.  • Worked with the Accounts, Estimating department to carefully integrate client by client to new system.  • Various Inventory Crystal reports are created for Accounts, Estimating and Business Operations manager. Programmer Analysts .Net June 2008 to January 2010 Environment: WebForms, C#, .NET, SQL Server   • Admin for Internal company website which tracks and manages the day today activities and various complex reporting for Data driven industry • Designing and developing the functionalities using VS.Net and SQL database.  • Automated number of process which led to increase revenue and profitability.  • Studied the requirements and system specifications understand them and followed with coding and testing.  • Modified existing software to correct errors, adapt to new hardware and improve performance. Net Developer Global Infotech - IN January 2007 to November 2007 Software Engineer WEB & MOBILE TECHNOLOGY - Jacksonville, FL January 2007 to November 2007 ATLANTIS, a mitigation manager system developed for Skyetec Environmental Building Solutions, Inc (SEBS) which contracts with homebuilders/contractors to inspect newly constructed homes/units for the presence of existing and potential water intrusion problems, appropriate air quality and visible microbial contamination.  • Developed MULTIMEDIA flash movie clip and action scripts for drawing section.  • Designed and developed Asp.net web user interface forms.  • Created Sql Server 2005 Stored procedures and views.  • Provided team members with proper coding strategies and naming conventions.  • Developed the Business Logic methods using C#.Net coding.  • Developed 3-tier architecture which contains Presentation layer,Business logic layer and Data access layer.  • Worked with aspx pages for saving and editing the floor details.  • Performed research and development for communication between Flash and Asp.net pages, client side using java script and Flash and saving data directly from flash to Sql Server 2005 database.  • Worked with IFRAME, Rad AJAX and Asp.Net AJAX.  • Generated Claim and Task details by Crystal Report XI.  • Conducted team meetings from time to time to track project status and meet deadlines. Software Engineer Mothisham Pvt Ltd February 2005 to January 2007 Environment: WebForms, VB.Net, .NET, SQL Server  Client: Mothisham Pvt Ltd   i-SMART MANAGER, an ERP package for Construction Industry, which integrates all processes involved in a medium to large scale construction. Within a Construction environment, it manages inputs from multiple sites and maps it to a single location and delivers high quality Management Information System. i-SMART MANAGER integrate all departments like Planning & Design, Project Management, Sales, Finance, HR, and their activities across a construction industry making use of a centralized repository.  • Developed Dundas Digital Dash Board for displaying the Premise Occupants Details.  • Designed and Developed the Premise Cost Fixing forms.  • Created crystal reports for displaying the details that include projects available, price tag, brokers list • Created drill down reports showing project details and premise types using SQL Server 2005 Reporting • Developed Dundas chart user control with .NET properties like user interface, enabling to create charts much faster and easier with 3D views at runtime.  • Created Stacked Bar Chart views showing the project details like Total premises Available, Premises booked, Premises Blocked and Premises that are free • Implemented mouse over event handlers for individual chart details or series to display the details of persons booked with details including photos in a popup window. Software Engineer .Net Technology IDSI Technologies India March 2004 to January 2007 Education Masters in Computer Application in Computer Application MK University Bachelor of Science in Systems and Document Management Systems MK University Skills .Net (10+ years), C#, VB.NET (10+ years), Crystal reports, SSRS (4 years), MS .NET (4 years), SQL (10+ years), ERP Integration Microsoft Dynamics NAV, Motek (2 years), MVC (2 years), Scrum, Agile, Atlassian Jira Project Tracking. (4 years), XML, HTML, JavaScript, ASP.NET, Angular JS Basics, Bootstrap Basics, AJAX, Qlik View Basics, WCF Basics, .Net WebServices (3 years), Razor / ASPX View Engines, LINQ, Lambda, Entity Frame Work, Jason (2 years), VSS, SVN, TFS, GitLab (4 years), Visual Basic (5 years), Javascript Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/roopesh-bhaskar-58692110/ Additional Information Skills:    Language/Technologies C#, VB.Net, OOA&D, .NET 2.0 - 4.5 , SOA & MSSql Technologies 2000 - 2016  Development Methodologies Scrum, Agile, Atlassian Jira Project Tracking.  Web Technology  XML, HTML, JavaScript, ASP.NET, Angular JS Basics, Bootstrap Basics, AJAX, Qlik View Basics, WCF Basics, .Net WebServices, MVC, Razor / ASPX View Engines, LINQ, Lambda, Entity Frame Work    Source Control VSS, SVN, TFS, GitLab  ERPs Microsoft Dynamics NAV, Motek  Development Tools VS 2012, VS 2013, VS 2010, MS SQL 2016, 2005  Reporting Tools SSRS, Crystal Reports