Java Developer Java <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - INTEGRATED SECURE Galveston, TX Software Developer with experience in Java and Oracle. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java Developer INTEGRATED SECURE - Austin, TX 2018 to Present Triage and resolve incoming customer tickets supporting the Department of Veteran's Affairs Loan Guaranty  program.  • Manage data integration processes that redact PII from production database for use in lower environments.  • Review SQL scripts written by all other developers before deployment to production database.  • Create automated test scripts using Java, Selenium, Cucumber and TestNG. Enterprise Integration Consultant - NGA INTEGRATED SECURE - The Woodlands, TX 2009 to 2018 • Responsible for maintenance and administration of National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency's Maritime Safety Information Portal website (http://msi.nga.mil), providing safety of navigation data to U.S. flagged vessels including Navy, Coast Guard, and Merchant Marine on classified and unclassified networks.  • Design, develop and test applications supporting maritime safety systems using Java, Oracle Weblogic Portal and Oracle Database 11g in a SCRUM team environment.  • Rebuild application and data import processes to function on classified networks using Java.  • Daily customer interaction troubleshooting website problems, documenting symptoms and coding solutions. Software Developer AGILEX - Chantilly, VA 2008 to 2009 Build and support mission critical applications using Java/J2EE, Struts, Hibernate, Oracle PL/SQL, XML, JavaScript, Java Server Faces, Websphere Application Developer on both IBM WebSphere and Oracle  Application Servers.  • Develop requirements by working with business analysts and end users to define, document and confirm use  case and narrative based requirements.  • Construct level of effort and cost estimates by evaluating requirements and statements of work.  • Define application and network architectures, integration of design patterns, and individual component  designs. Senior Software Engineer ACCENTURE - Reston, VA 2005 to 2008 • Java/J2EE development in a SDLC environment using Oracle PL/SQL, XML, and Hibernate.  • Design and develop JSP framework for USPS online store using WebSphere Commerce Server.  • Design and code enhancements to multiple USPS applications.  • Create and implement a reusable process that reduced Section 508 accessibility testing and approval time for computer based training products from fifty days to less than one day, for which I received the Accenture  Technology Solutions Leadership Award.  • Conduct analysis phase of the complete redesign of USPS external hiring portal.  OTHER  U.S ARMY VETERAN  ELISSA CREW MEMBER Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Information Systems in Computer Information Systems STRAYER UNIVERSITY - Ashburn, VA 2000 Skills Core Java, J2Ee, Java J2Ee, Java, Java, Java J2Ee Military Service Branch: United States Army Rank: E-4