Senior Software Engineer Senior <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Senior Full Stack .Net Software Engineer and Azure Expert Simpsonville, SC Full Stack Web Developer and Azure Expert. I enjoy the full SDLC process and taking an idea and turning it into a working solution.    Currently diving into Machine Learning, Artificial Intelligence and TensorFlow. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Software Engineer World Acceptance - Greenville, SC March 2017 to Present Developed a new Portal with new web apps that include a Loan Origination System, Branch Banking, Tax Entry, POS and Cash Counts with Deposit generation.  ? Built a Large Loan Approval System that reduced several large teams to a small handful and has increased revenue by $70 million per year.  ? Developed PDF mapping system to auto-generate loan applications from web app to be printed.  ? Developed credit pull functionality and integration from Equifax.  ? Created a dashboard and business intelligence analytics against the data from the loan application system.  ? Managed all Azure resources in the cloud.  ? Extensive work in C#, SQL, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, SQL, web api, Visual Studio, Telerik/Kendo, Bootstrap, PowerBI and Azure. Senior Software Engineer GE Power - Greenville, SC November 2016 to March 2017 Developed Predictive Analytic Dashboards against Big Data from GE turbines leveraging GE's Predix framework.  ? Dashboards were built using AngularJS for the WebApp portal and PowerBI for internal reporting.  ? Made it possible to predict failures on turbine parts up to 100 years in the future. This allowed for more accurate scheduled downtime scenarios for the turbines.  ? Technologies used were Angular, PowerBI, C#, .Net, SQL, Oracle and Azure. Senior Software Engineer Benefitfocus - Greenville, SC June 2014 to March 2017 Developed an automation system that saved the company over 1 million dollars per year and 60% of engineering hours per week.  ? Developed a software solution to dramatically reduce time needed for system configurations  ? Developed a cross department centralized requirements gathering website  ? Developed custom configurations on Microsoft BizTalk ESB  ? Lead efforts in data quality with automation tools and processes for all new development work  ? Extensive work in C#, SQL, Visual Studio, WinForms, web api and working on a SaaS/Multitenant enterprise solution. Senior Software Engineer Harris Computers - Easley, SC June 2013 to June 2014 Scrum team member to develop brand new system module on long term project  ? Completed project ahead of schedule  ? Developed the accounting tax code logic and UI for county tax module and implemented Unit Testing  ? Designed code and ORM merging technique against feature branches in TFS  ? Extensive work in C#, VB, WinForms, Infragistics, LLBLGen, web api and SQL Senior Software Engineer Blackbaud - Charleston, SC January 2013 to June 2013 Migrated enterprise customers from ClickOnce environment to SaaS Web client  ? Developed and tuned SQL Stored Procedures  ? Developed custom software add-ons to the Enterprise CRM system  ? Extensive work in C#, VB, XML, SQL within a SaaS/Multitenant enterprise solution Senior Software Developer Greenville Health System - Greenville, SC March 2010 to January 2013 Developed an asynchronous PDF parsing-extraction app to manage patient data between legacy systems  ? Designed/Developed custom backup utilities and patient care scheduling system for therapy departments  ? Developed software solutions to fill gaps between applications and departments  ? Managed clinical application and server administration for 13,000 users  ? Extensive work in C#, XML, SQL, AutoIT, Java, ASP and Windows Services Data Center Engineer, NOC Immedion - Greenville, SC May 2008 to December 2010 Monitored and provided technical support within Data Center and for clients  ? Assisted clients with hands on IT support of server configurations and hardware installation within Data Center Hardware and Software Analyst QS/1 Data Systems - Spartanburg, SC May 2007 to March 2010 Assisted clients with setup of servers, networking and PC related equipment  ? Help clients use the software and ensure insurance claims reached the Carrier  ? Developed SQL stored procedures and .Net migration tools Education Bachelors of Computer Science in Software Engineering and Database Administration DeVry University 2013 Bachelors of Computer Science in Software Engineering University of South Carolina 2008 Skills Git (5 years), Javascript (5 years), HTML 5 (10+ years), Azure (5 years), .Net (10+ years), C# (10+ years), Asp.Net (10+ years), CSS3 (10+ years), Project Management (10+ years), SQL (10+ years), Entity Framework (5 years), Visual Studio (10+ years), Management (10+ years) Links http://www.keithprince.com Certifications/Licenses Network+ Present A+ Certified Present MCPS: Microsoft Certified Professional Present MCP Present HIPAA Present Scrum Master Present