Sr. Java Developer Sr. Java <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Developer Dallas, TX ? Over 10 + Years of progressive experience in all the phases of software development life cycle including Design, development and implementation of software applications using Java/J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, Struts, JSP, PL/SQL, HTML, CSS, XML, XSLT, Java Script, Ruby on rails, AJAX, API, Restful, Unix.  ? Experienced IT professional in designing, coding, integrating and testing software (SDLC) implementations using Java/J2EE involving development of Multi-Tier, Client/Server and Web based applications.  ? Experience in Spring Framework such as Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Spring Resources, Spring JDBC.  ? Experience in developing web based J2EE applications using Struts/Spring frameworks.  ? Good knowledge and work experience on developing web application using Spring MVC Framework and Hibernate.  ? Extensive of server-side development experience using the technologies EJB, Web Services, XML, JAXB, Oracle, MySQL Server, SQL, PL/SQL.  ? Creation of the BPEL processes by using human tasks, selectors, Business Rules, Business State machines in Websphere Integration Developer/Websphere Process Server.  ? Designing, developing and testing of various business processes in the financial, public, telecom domains for various customers.  ? Excellent hands on expertise in configuring WBI Adapters such as Jtext, JDBC, HTTP, Webservices, MQ and JMS.  ? Experience with Clear Case UCM concepts. Version control tools such as Rational ClearCase, Rational ClearCase Remote Client.  ? Good experiences with UNIX shell scripting.  ? Expertise in transforming the business requirement into executable collaboration flow modules.  ? Has very good understanding of agile SCRUM methodology. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Java Developer ATNT - Raleigh, NC May 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Worked on Java/J2EE framework APIs like spring, iBatis and Hibernate.  ? Architect and testing of web application and integration projects using technologies such as Core Java, J2EE, Multi-threading, Struts, JSP, JDBC, Spring Framework, Hibernate, Java Beans, Netbeans.  ? Implemented business rules in Java technology and performed data driven testing using JUnit  ? Followed agile methodology and participated in Sprints during development.  ? Built a Spoken Dialogue System to access Google Calendar API, interact with the service and provide voice responses.  ? Developed the application on Windows Server.  ? Created a DevOps environment using Team Foundation Server. This included input into branching and merging strategies.  ? Configure and deploy MongoDB clusters provisioned as DBaaS  ? Responsible for Design/Install/Engineer for Apache Tomcat and JBOSS EAP 7 middleware platforms on RHEL 7 AWS Cloud and On-Premise servers.  ? Used Eclipse as the IDE and Log4J as the logging framework  ? Architect applications using Java, J2EE Standards, Apache web server, JSP, Struts, Spring, Hibernate, Oracle, MVC Architecture, Web Services, AJAX, RMI, UML, HTML, Java Beans, JavaScript and DHTML.  ? Architect hibernate DAO Accessor Classes using Netbeans, Worked with Hibernate for object relational mapping and connection management.  ? Used Selenium Grid, JUnit test scripts to run automated test cases in parallel on 5 environments  ? Create and Enhance J2EE Web Application using Java and Windows Server utilizing the Agile development process.  ? Provide and implement MongoDB SOP and best pratices  ? Design Blue print for Apache tomcat as per guardian standards to implement apache tomcat as part of AWS automation on cloud as well as on premise based RHEL Operating system.  ? Developed application with Eclipse RCP as IDE.  ? Review Requirement, develop technical design documents and create a prototype of the critical business application using JAVA/J2EE Initiated use of HttpUnit, Selenium IDE for testing.  ? Built main application in PHP leveraging technologies such as Tastypie, Angular.js, Backbone.js, Ember.js, and Celery.  ? Worked with J2EE and J2SE technologies including JSP, Java Web Start, and Weblogic.  ? Developed Ruby on Rails apps, deployed to Apache Web Server ElasticBeanstalk and internally on a Linux server using Ansible.  ? Architect new features in website using Java/J2EE under Santana Framework and enhance existing features. Refactoring code, redesign current design.  ? Architect Java/J2EE Design patterns like Business Delegate and Data Transfer Object (DTO) in the project which facilitates clean distribution of roles and responsibilities across various layers of processing.  ? Architect Java/J2EE development structure for Rational Application Developer.  ? Developed user friendly GUI calendar, Using Google Calendar API.  ? Designed an Android App for an Indoor Navigation System to work as extension of Google Calendar API Automated the cloud deployments using chef, python (boto & fabric) and AWS Cloud Formation Templates.  ? Writing scripts, front end configuration and code in JavaScript, Python, PHP, SASS and CSS.  ? Architect a scalable distributed data solution using Hadoop  ? Architect Web services using Apache Axis2 and generated the WSDL.  ? Architect and test of SOA services using SOA / Web Service / Oracle Fusion Middleware.  ? Architect Oracle database tables, stored procedures, sequences, triggers, views  ? Architect new PL/SQL stored procedures for new Oracle Forms and Reports development  ? Responsible for Docker Compose environment deployment for Ruby on Rails, Elixir and Node.JS apps running on a stack with Postgresql, ElasticSearch, OrientDB and Nginx.  ? Played a key role in installation and configuration of the various Hadoop ecosystem tools such as Sqoop, Flume, Pig and Hbase.  ? Gather and report performance metrics of team through Team Foundation Server.  ? Used Symfony in a set of PHP Components as a Web Application framework  ? Involved in setting up Windows Server Application server and using Ant tool to build the application and deploy the application in Windows Server Application server.  ? Architect a Rich Single Page Application using Netbeans.  ? Architect application using Agile connecting to Oracle on the backend.  ? Defined and Created SOA software and hardware infrastructure, including Apache web server, Services Bus, Server Domains etc.  ? Migrated source code base from StarTeam to Team Foundation Server.  ? Authored and maintains the Make ACG Database program, which is software that retrieves data based on build specifications from Team Foundation Server.  ? Wrote the entire admin from scratch (PHP), rewrote the main API (PHP), and fixed issues in our slot API (Coffeescript).  ? Used Eclipse IDE for designing, coding and developing applications  ? Used Github repository for version control.  ? Architect use cases for each component of business workflow, create technical design documents with different UML diagrams like sequence diagrams and class diagrams using Rational Rose  ? Architect IOC and Dependency Injection features in various aspects of Spring Framework (Core, Web, JDBC, MVC and DAO). Also Developed hibernate mappings to tables using JPA annotations.  ? Backend development with LINUX, UNIX  ? Performed Benchmarking and Load testing using MongoDB-stress tool.  ? Performed Unit Testing and developed Unit Test Classes using JUNIT  ? Architect Web based Dynamic Form Builder using HTML, CSS, JavaScript Object-to-XML.  ? Used REST WebServices for creating rate summary and used WSDL and SOAP messages for getting insurance plans from different module and used XML parsers for data retrieval  ? Consumed Restful Webservices where the transmission of data is in JSON format.  ? Architect REST WebServices to interact with various business sectors and used SOAP protocol for webservices communication  ? Configured JMS Server setup and DB Connection pool setup & deployed Returned items in Weblogic.  ? Extensively worked on Application servers like Weblogic and Apache Tomcat.  ? Worked on stored procedures, triggers, cursors, MongoDB, PL/SQL, MySQL and SQL queries  ? Architect Use Case, Object, Class, Sequence and Flow Chart Diagrams using Rational Rose Tool  ? Architect back-end stored procedures and triggers using Oracle PL/SQL, involved in database objects creation, performance tuning of stored procedures, and query plan.  ? Integrating Rich Faces and My Faces in configuring Rich Faces Filter and Servlet in the configuration file  ? Agile/SCRUM was used as the project management methodology and JIRA & Confluence were the tools used to keep things in check.    Environment:  Java, Ruby, Python, PHP, J2EE, Spring, Windows Server, JSP, Angular.js, React.JS, Node.js, Google Calendar API, Ibatis, HTML, Javascript, CSS, Apache Tomcat, Netbeans, Apache web server, MongoDB, PL/SQL, Junit, Oracle, MySql, REST, Team Foundation Server, Selenium, RAD, Agile, UML, CVS, Eclipse Sr. Java Developer UnitedHealthGroup - Schaumburg, IL October 2013 to April 2016 Responsibilities:  ? Implemented Spring ORM wiring with Hibernate provided access to Oracle RDBMS  ? Architect new interfaces using java, maven/ant, spring mvc / struts, or hibernate based on provided requirements XSD/DDF's  ? Architect the application using the concrete principles laid down by several Java/J2EE Design patterns like Business Delegate, MVC, Session Façade, Factory Method, Service Locator, Singleton and Data Transfer Objects (DTO).  ? Used WSAD Windows Server Studio Application Devloper for writing code for JSP, Servlets, and Struts.  ? Architect user interface using JSP, JSTL and Custom Tag Libraries and AJAX to speed the application.  ? Utilized Python in the handling of all hits on Django, Redis, and other applications.  ? Developed WordPress plugins and modules to embed into the active pages using PHP.  ? Architect and configured the Java beans using Struts MVC and Hibernate.  ? Development of Web (Intranet) database-driven and GIS Java/J2EE applications for Oracle databases.  ? Developed and build the Test modules and Unit Test Cases for the whole application in JUnit  ? Used JUnit to test persistence and service tiers  ? Architect Cloud based Service Bus on WSO2 for engaging stakeholders in the initial SOA discussions.  ? Architect additional UI Components using Netbeans and implemented an asynchronous, AJAX (JQuery) based rich client to improve customer experience.  ? Worked on Python Ruby, Perl, Bash Scripts for on Middleware tools for deployment.  ? Involved in developing/ leading multiple process extension utilities to increase the productivity for production support team using Agile SDK API.  ? Perform data loading of the cleansed data in to Apache web server  ? Ensure the continuous availability of our mission critical MongoDB clusters.  ? Configure and deploy MongoDB clusters using Docker containers in on- prem and AWS cloud environment, in both Linux and Windows platform  ? Architect a RESTful API to save and retrieve geolocations using a remote server in Java using Netbeans, MongoDB, Apache CXF, and JAX-RS.  ? Embedded Python and R with Tcl using C wrappers to allow developers to perform data analytics as well as Implement applications in a single language i.e. PHP.  ? Design, develop and implement ColdFusion and PHP based Spiderlink Web Services online billing application.  ? Worked on application servers like Apache Tomcat.  ? Configured and deployed the application in Apache Tomcat application server.Created and modified code within a Ruby based application.  ? Developed application with Eclipse RCP as IDE.  ? Used Eclipse IDE for writing code and BEA WebLogic as application server.  ? Architect the base framework using Java, JSP, Struts, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, Oracle and MS SQL Server.  ? Involved in user interface development using JSTL.  ? Developed SQL queries with PHP Doctrine and Propel to create, retrieve and update data and programming SQL sentences based on CRUD.  ? Technology leadership for the direction of the Cloud based application using Node.JS, PDFJS, Sencha, MongoDB and MS SQL Server integrating to a proprietary framework.  ? Architect REST WebServices for the management of data using Apache CXF (JAX-RS)  ? Used J2EE based App Servers like Jboss, Windows Server, Weblogic and Web servers like Apache Tomcat  ? Developed automation test cases using Java and Junit on Eclipse application.  ? Extensively involved in the development of backend Logics or data access logic using Oracle DB & JDBC.  ? Architect webservice component using Agile and XSLT to interact with the middleware  ? Architect Maven build file to build the application and deployed on Apache web server.  ? EJB components are deployed on the WebLogic Integration with MQSeries using Netbeans.  ? Worked in RDBMS implementation using, SQL, PL/SQL, DB2, MySQL on Oracle database.  ? Worked with Oracle RDBMS for writing complex queries and PL/SQL, SQL for Stored Procedures, Triggers and Events, for generating some important responses needed by the application at times.  ? Involved in UML Use case diagrams, Class diagrams, and Sequence diagrams using Rational Rose  ? Architect interfaces and their implementation classes to communicate with the mid-tier (services) using JMS.  ? Performed J2EE application deployment using JBoss application server on Windows and Linux  ? Wrote JUnit test/Integration test cases for asserting functional quality.  ? Architect Application flow UML diagrams of the application using Rational Rose.    Environment:  Java, Ruby, Python, J2EE, Agile, Spring, Struts, JDBC, WSAD Apache web server, Servlet, WEBSERVICES, Windows Server, Angular.js, Node.js, bootstrap.js, backbone.js, JSP, Netbeans, JQuery, Javascript, XML, SOAP, PL/SQL, JSF, PHP, JMS, Junit, EJB, DB2, CRUD, MongoDB, MySQL MS SQL, Oracle, Apache CXF, REST, SOA, Apache Tomcat, Linux, Eclipse, Scrum, Subversion SVN, UML, Class diagram, JSTL, Maven Sr. Java Developer American Express - San Francisco, CA March 2011 to September 2013 Responsibilities:  ? Worked on the Spring framework like Spring IOC and Spring DAO Design and develop Servlets, JSPs,  ? Using spring integration with IBatis for persistence. All SQL map name spaces are configured in sqlmap-config file.  ? Implemented views using Struts tags, JSTL and Expression Language.  ? JavaBeans with dependency injection to implement JSF framework. Good working experience developing advanced Swing components.  ? Developed Spark scripts by using Scala shell commands as per the requirement.  ? Used Akka as a framework to create reactive, distributed, parallel and resilient concurrent applications in Scala.  ? Developed multiple POCs using Scala and deployed on the Yarn cluster, compared the performance of Spark, with Hive and SQL/Teradata.  ? Developed and tested many features in an AGILE environment using Ruby on Rails, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, Node.js, RSpec.  ? Develop consumer based features and applications using Ruby on Rails, JavaScript, JQuery, HTML, Behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pair based programming.  ? Expert in developing applications using Ruby on Rails, Rspec, Bootstrap, Zurb foundation, JSF, Spring, Struts and Hibernate framework.  ? Experience on Model View Controller (MVC) architecture and RESTful design in Ruby on Rails.  ? Implemented dynamic graphs using Ruby on Rails, Chartkick and JavaScript.  ? Experience working with AWS Simple calculator to estimate pricing for corporate proposals.  ? Using Jenkins AWS Code Deploy plugin to deploy to AWS.  ? Developed Scalable applications using Stateless session EJBs.  ? Implemented CSS3, DOM API, DOJO and Ajax to create a dynamic and interactive experience.  ? Implemented functionality using Servlet, JSP, HTML and Struts Framework., Hibernate, Spring, Java Scripts and Weblogic.  ? Used JavaScript and jQuery for validating the input given to the user interface.  ? Used JQuery JavaScript libraries for providing richer user interface and facilitates asynchronous request invocations using AJAX.  ? Used TOAD for database query testing, in the process of optimizing the queries.  ? Involved in writing CTG, JCICS classes to interact with Mainframe DB2.  ? Designed and developed the input/output data formats in XSD for the WSDL files and accordingly implementing services using Apache AXIS2.  ? Developed Web Services to communicate to other modules using XML based SOAP and WSDL protocols.  ? Followed an Agile, Software Development methodology. Used NetBeans IDE.  ? Configuration and deployment of application on to JBoss application server.  ? Created ClearCase VOBs and setup triggers and backups for a new project. Wrote roll out procedures and plans. Environment was mixed Windows and AIX.  ? Involved in creating unit testing of various layers using Junit and created automated test scripts for integration testing using selenium.  ? Expertise in employing Water Fall Model and best practices for software development.  ? Participated in converting the business requirements to software specifications using Rational UML  ? Was involved in writing JSPs, JavaScript and Servlets to generate dynamic web pages and web content.  ? Good understanding of Oracle, SQL, Shell Script, JavaScript/JQuery, Log4j, ANT, Maven and Ajax concepts.  ? Used WebServices for creating rate summary and used WSDL and SOAP messages for getting insurance plans from different module and used XML parsers for data retrieval.  ? Quickly learned iText and implemented to solve Hungarian Special Character Issue.  ? Working Closely with EMC Documentum to implement Engineering Design Storage Repository and Project Document Management.  ? Designed and implemented interface elements using Google Web Toolkit.  ? Using JIRA to manage the issues/project work flow.  ? Designed Interactive GUIs using Java Applets and Swing.  ? Involved in Installation & Configuration of Cognos in distributed environments on Solaris.  ? Implemented two Java portals. One is Crystal Report Engine and the other is Jasper Report Engine as plug-in to other web-applications depending on the user's preferences.  ? Installed and configured a multi-server, clustered ILOG environment. Documented architecture and trained client administrators.  ? Designed various design Workflow Modules using BPM (Business Process Modeler) to implement Business Logic and Business rules using Ilog, Jrules.  ? Layout and design the overall architecture and migration approaches using Oracle ADF.  ? Migration of Business process modeling, views from Oracle BPM to Lombardi  ? Reduced system downtime by 20% and increased on-line business opportunities / revenue by implementing content management system enhancements leveraging Web 2.0 technologies.  ? Expertise in working with IBM MQ Series and Websphere Message Broker on various platforms like Sun Solaris 8/9, AIX, SUSE Linux, and Windows NT/2000/2003/XP.  ? Hosted and configured applications in IIS, IBM Websphere, and Apache Tomcat under Windows and AIX platforms.  ? Involving in Building the modules in Linux environment with ANT script.  ? Involved in writing Unix Shell Script for performing automated tasks.  ? Coded scripts to clean normalize, reformat data for loading into the ERP system using VB Script and Ruby scripts.  ? Configured Word Press publishing software for non-profit firm. Created weblog layout in HTML, CSS and PHP based on an original design according to client's branding needs.  ? Built custom websites for clients using CMS's (Drupal) by coding custom modules and themes, as well as utilizing e-commerce APIs for secure payment processing.  ? Developed an in house Bankruptcy Intake program in Classic ASP/ASP.NET. Program is inherited from Classic ASP Debt intake program. Used Visual Studio 2008 to develop this mix program of both Classic ASP and ASP.NET. Used vbscript, JavaScript, and added some new ASP.NET pages.    Environment:  Java, J2EE, JEE, Spring, IBatis, Struts, JSF, EJB, DOJO, JavaScript, JQuery, MySQL, Toad, SQL Server, DB2, Coherence, Apache AXIS2, WSDL, NetBeans, JBoss, Mercurial, ClearCase, Selenium, Water fall model, UML, JSP, SERVLET, ANT, XML, iText, EMC Documentum, Google Web Toolkit, JIRA, SWING, Cognos, Jasper Report, ILOG, Jrules, Oracle Application Development Framework, Oracle Business Process Management, Web2.0, IBM MQ Series, Apache Tomcat, Linux, UNIX, Ruby, Word Press. Java Developer Cisco - Charlotte, NC April 2009 to March 2011 Responsibilities:  ? Developed Java Server Pages (JSP) for presentation layer using Struts Also client side validations using Struts Validator framework/ JavaScript.  ? Extensively used EJB and various J2EE (JSP/EJB/JMS) component for the implementation of the modules.  ? Involved in requirement gathering, writing technical proposals, planning, estimation, architecture and high level / low level design using Rational Rose and UML  ? Extensively used Struts supporting the MVC architecture of the product interacting with the JSP/Servlet/Tag libraries for the UI component.  ? Involved in the SOA implementation using Axis/WebLogic web service framework for different product integrations and Web Service interfaces using SOAP.  ? Extensively used XSD for validations of XML transfer to the different Web Services.  ? Used JMS / MQ series for transferring messages between different components using the JMS/Mail API framework.  ? Used JBuilder IDE use for the development life cycle of the project.  ? Deployed the application and tested on WebLogic Application Server.  ? Each module was designed as a separate service interacting as Web services between each other.  ? Used SVN as configuration management tool.  ? Deployed the application and tested on JBoss Application Server.  ? Eclipse IDE use for the development life cycle of the project.  ? Used Database Oracle for the persistence layer.  ? Written unit testing of various components with JUnit framework.  ? Development in Java through IntelliJ, Eclipse Java IDE.  ? Wrote ANT scripts to build application binaries JAR, WAR and EAR files.  ? Used Log4j for logging the application log of the running system to trace the errors.    Environment:  Java, JSP, Servlet, Struts, AJAX, JDBC, EJB, XML, XSL, JMS, MQ Series, Oracle, WebLogic, Ant, Axis &JBuilder, Win-XP, EJB, ANT, Eclipse, Weblogic, UML. Java Developer Verizon - Dallas, TX October 2007 to April 2009 Responsibilities:  ? Design and implementation for the concept for the frameworks using Struts, Spring and Hibernate Frameworks and assisting with development environment configuration.  ? Developed Java/J2EE code, business logic using Spring, Hibernate framework and OOP concepts, involved in Peer code reviews.  ? Developed the Frontend application with AngularJS.  ? Involved in complete software development life cycle management using UML (Unified Modeling Language) - Requirements gathering, Conceptual design, Analysis, Detailed design, and Development.  ? Used Spring MVC framework & Integration for Server side programming.  ? Developed UI based on struts framework, using JSF, JSP, JSTL, Servlets and Back Bone JS DHTML with extensive java scripts to reduce Server hits, improving performance.  ? Developed Servlets and JSP to interact with EnterpriseJava Beans (EJB) containing all the Business Logic.  ? Used Hibernate as the persistence layer to interact with Oracle DB.  ? Wrote complex SQL, Stored Procedure, HSQL & Criteria queries and reviewed the same with peers.  ? Responsible to resolve design issues and develop strategies to make ongoing improvements that support system flexibility and performance.  ? JProfiler bridges the gap between a code profiler and a high-level JEE monitoring tool.  ? Responsible to approve "Test Cases" created by Testing Team. Provide technical support to testing team to fix any issues in Functional Testing.  ? Assess the technical feasibility of new technologies to enable integration into existing processes.  ? Developed JSP as the view, Servlets as Controller to make calls to EJB as model.  ? Worked on JBOSS Application Server to deploy application.  ? Consumed and developed Restful Services with JAX-RS and Jersey.  ? Used Soap UI Pro for Testing Web services.  ? Used Apache Camel with URIs to work directly with any kind of Transport or messaging model such as HTTP, ActiveMQ, RabbitMQ and JMS.  ? Developed Stored Procedures, Functions and created database tables.  ? Used ClearCase for Source Control Management.  ? Coded Test Cases and created Mock Objects using JMock and used JUnit to run tests.    Environment:  Spring, Hibernate, Jprofiler, Angular JS, DHTML,CSS, Servlets, UML, J2EE, JSP, JSF2.0, EJB, Struts Framework Taglibs, SQL, JavaScript, Oracle, JBoss, Websphere Application Server, Eclipse, JUnit, JMock, WSDL, Web services, XML, XSLT, XSD (Schema Designs), SOAP, RestFul Services, JSON, UNIX, UML, JNDI, JDBC, JMS. Software Developer DELL October 2006 to September 2007 Responsibilities:  ? Developed the key modules Java, spring and Ibatis.  ? Extensive Application of HTML, XHTML, CSS for design and styling of web pages.  ? Implemented reusable services using Spring.  ? Involved in developing Database access components using Spring DAO integrated with Hibernate/JPA for accessing the data.  ? Involved in writing the database integration code using Hibernate. Leveraged the AOP features of spring framework to handle exceptions.  ? Implemented webservices using Rest API.  ? Implementation of AJAX, JSON, JQuery for create interactive Web Applications.  ? Involved in developing and modifying UNIX shell scripts using VI editor.  ? Implemented Ejb for maintaining the business logic.  ? Written complex SQL queries and stored procedures.    Environment:  Java , J2EE, JSR, XML, Ejbs, Spring, webservices, Hibernate, Oracle, Websphere Application Server. Education Master of Science in Science and Engineering University of North Carolina Skills Java (10+ years), JavaScript (10+ years), JSP (10+ years), XML. (10+ years), HTML (6 years), CSS (6 years), html5 (2 years), CSS3 (3 years), Spring (6 years), Hibernate (5 years), PHP (5 years), ruby on rails (4 years), python (4 years), angular.js (5 years), react.js (3 years), node.js (5 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:    Languages & API  Java, JSP, Servlet, JDBC, Struts,JSF,Spring,Hibernate,Ibatis,Mybatis,SQL, PL/SQL, POI, EJB, JMS, UNIX shell script, Python, PHP,Log4j, JUnit, SAX, DOM, JAXB, XML, Webservices, API, Restful, Ruby on rails.    UI HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Ext-Js, Ajax, JQuery  DBMS Oracle, DB2, SQL Server, Sybase  Web Services XML/XSD/XSLT, SOAP, WSDL, Rest webservices  Development tools Eclipse, WSAD, RAD, TOAD, SQL Developer, Rational Rose  Version Control CVS, SVN, VSS, GIT,RTC, Rational Clear Case  Operating System Windows, UNIX, SOLARIS, LINUX