Senior Principal Analyst Senior Principal Analyst Senior Principal Analyst - Torch Technologies Madison, AL Senior level software developer position with potential for professional development and growth. Work Experience Senior Principal Analyst Torch Technologies - Huntsville, AL June 2019 to Present Team lead within the AICET program which is focused on countering emerging threats in the context of IBCS (Integrated Air and Missile Defense Battle Command System) by identifying new  technologies, architectures, and algorithms and integrating existing weapons and sensors. Typical  tasks include conducting trade studies and simulations, analyzing data, software prototyping, defining  requirements. Software Engineer AEgis Technologies - Huntsville, AL July 2013 to May 2019 Acting in the capacity of a SCRUM team member and a small team lead, worked on various  government and commercial simulation and training products such as Unmanned Aerial Vehicle  simulators and a stinger missile dome trainer. Typical tasks included writing, maintaining and enhancing image generators, instructor operator stations, vehicle flight dynamics, sensor imagery  models, network communications protocols, video streaming capabilities, UI's, after action review  and scoring subsystems. The development was done mainly in C++ and Python on both Windows and Linux using boost, OpenSceneGraph, OpenGL, GL Shading Language (GLSL), FFMPEG, Distributed  Interactive Simulation (DIS), wxWidgets. A few prototype projects involved using Unity and Unreal.  Build and version control tools used included Visual Studio, Eclipse, QT Creator, cmake, SVN, Git. A  cloud-hosted web-based instructor operator station also involved web development using Python  Django, docker and AWS. Software Engineer SAIC - Huntsville, AL February 2012 to June 2013 Working as a member of a SCRUM team, performed various tasks in the design and development of a  3-tiered army aviation mission planning and management application. Major responsibilities included  designing and building DB schemas, Data Access, Business Logic and Service Layers, Web services, and Client GUI's in C# utilizing WCF, WPF, Infragistics, SQL Server, Visual Studio, TFS. Software Developer Intergraph Corporation - Huntsville, AL May 2001 to February 2012 Under minimum supervision, planned and conducted a variety of programming assignments in the development, maintenance, and testing of Smart 3D plant design software, including design and  development of front-end user interfaces, middle tier components, and integration with back-end  DBMS (Oracle, SQL Server). Assignments required the application of Object Oriented Programming  principles, theories, and concepts on a Windows platform using C++, .Net (C#, VB.NET), COM, ATL, VB 6.0, VB Script, XML, relational databases (MS SQL, Oracle), UML, Rational Rose, Microsoft Visual  Studio IDE, Team Foundation Server. Main responsibilities included:  - Integration of a 3rd party VHL module into the Drawings system. Task required complex  manipulation of 2D and 3D geometry primitives and extensive use of 3rd party and in-house Math  libraries.  - Maintenance and enhancement of the application infrastructure handling the persistence layer, metadata, business logic, and rules engine.  - On-site and off-site training, support, consulting, and software customization for customers of  3D plant design software. Education B.S. in Computer Science Jacksonville State University - Jacksonville, AL August 1998 to April 2001 University for National and World Economy March 2001 Skills .net, C#, C/c++, C++, Django, Docker, Git, Html, Mfc, Wcf, Python, Keras, Tensorflow, Ruby, Rails, Ruby on rails, Svn, Vb.net, Visual basic, Visual basic 6, Matlab (Less than 1 year) Links https://www.linkedin.com/pub/plamen-ranguelov/66/57b/92b