Software Engineer <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Software Engineer - Anomalix Atlanta, GA .NET/SQL Development  • C#, .NET, ASP.NET, ASP.NET MVC  * Developing ASP.NET Web Forms, for thirteen years; and ASP.NET MVC.  * Used every version of Visual Studio .NET.  * Utilized version control software in every project since the beginning of my career; software included CVS, Tortoise, SourceSafe, Team Foundation Server and GIT.  * Developed an immense understanding of AJAX development, and as it has evolved, personal proficiency has as well.  * Parse data using JSON, XML, XHTML, XSL and XSLT.  * Created Web Services in COM, COM+ objects, ASMX, WCF, REST and Web APIs  * Architected and designed sites in UML via Microsoft Visio and on paper.    • SQL Server (T-SQL)  * Utilized all versions of SQL Server.  * Developed databases, CRUD, T-SQL, ADO.NET and LINQ.  * Created stored procedures, UDF's, views, triggers, indexing and cursors.  * Knowledge in Crystal Reports, SSRS, SSIS and SSAS.  * Retrieved and saved data using LINQ to SQL, LINQ to XML, LINQ to Objects and LINQ to Entity.    UI Development  • JavaScript  * Developed in 'Vanilla JavaScript' and utilized object-oriented programming  * Utilized the Responsive Web Design library 'Bootstrap' to display the same site properly in TVs, browsers, tablets and phones.  * Created web pages using ReactJS and AngularJS, to develop interactive UIs, design views and update and render data, upon component changes.  * Utilized Knockout and Backbone as client-side MV* Frameworks.  * Programmed in jQuery since 2007; implemented other cross-browser APIs like Dojo, YUI, Google, MooTools and Prototype.  * Wrote AJAX client-side calls to code-behind via jQuery. Retrieved the values in JSON and XML.  * Programmed in many third party JavaScript libraries, and also utilize 'Unobtrusive JavaScript'.  * Used Node.js to create a chat client through the use of Socket.IO, SPA, and other JavaScript APIs.  * Tested JavaScript using Unit Testing AngularJS, QUnit, Selenium, YUI Testing and JSTestDriver.    • HTML5  * Develop in the HTML5 Geolocation API. Utilized the JavaScript object 'navigator.geolocation' to get the latitude, longitude and accuracy.  * Utilize the Web Storage API to applications using sessionStorage and localStorage.  * Developed a HTML5 Websocket API using SignalR in C#.  * Utilization of HTML5 and JavaScript to create Audio and Video APIs. Develop text and designs; two and three-dimensional, using the HTML5 Canvas API.    • CSS3  * Altered web page animations written in jQuery through the use of the new CSS3 properties, 'Transforms', 'Transitions' and 'Keyframes'; this allow faster page load time.  * Created more stylistic pages through the use of CSS3 2D and 3D and the prior properties.  * Added CSS3 'Media Queries' and 'Transitions' to Responsive Web Design by making images and text resize.  * Utilized LESS for CSS functions, mixins, variables; among many of its other powerful tasks. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Engineer Anomalix - Chicago, IL August 2017 to Present Description: Worked on a project for Horizon BCBSNJ (NASCO) for identity management. NASCO is dedicated to helping Blue Cross and Blue Shield Plans across the nation build a better healthcare system for America.  ? Responsible for system analysis, design and development using J2EE architecture.  ? Integrate and update Oracle 10g database to the existing system, incorporated new functionality into the existing system's DAO layer, created service and mapper classes to wrap the logic and query database.  ? Integrated MyBatis 3.4.6 with Spring 4 and used Spring to hide the CRUD operations contained in the Data Services.  ? Designed and developed RESTful service interface using Spring MVC to the underlying customer event API.  ? Upgraded Spring 2 to Spring 4 because of the major paradigm shift of ibatis being obsolete shifted to MyBatis supporting Spring 4.  ? Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) as requirement gathering, modeling, analysis, architecture design & development and the project was developed using Agile Methodology.  ? End-to-end Project Management, including customization of product based on the customer's requirement, meeting delivery deadlines on development, testing, implementation phases of the system.  ? Performed application design development maintenance enhancements and testing using JUnit framework.  ? Utilize Jenkins and Docker to build and deploy applications to QA environment for functional testing and to UAT environment for performance and acceptance testing.  ? Performed Unit Testing on Mockito for the inflow of webservices, did paired programming for code reviews.  ? Used Github for source code repository, to maintain the source code. Software Engineer Salem, NH June 2016 to July 2017 Utilized front-end development written in JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS and ReactJS, code-behind written in C# and back-end SQL development written in SQL Server; to create cloud-based products for our clients.  ? Created a NodeJS application, utilizing ReactJS, for a reporting web application.  ? Developed a means for our clients to be able to upload and view videos, utilizing HTML5 technology.  ? Designed a means for clients to be able to upload and view photos on their cloud site.  ? Designed workflows for the clients.  ? Architected, engineered and developed an e-signature application. Nurse Audit Portsmouth, NH January 2016 to April 2016 Converting outdated 2003/2005 ASP.NET controls (including third party Infragistics and Intersoft server-side controls), to brand new Visual Studio 2015 web forms, using all client-side partial-page postbacks; utilizing cutting edge JavaScript (ECMAScript 6), CSS 2.0/3.0 and HTML5.  ? Required to have the new web pages look the same as the old web pages, using new development styles.  ? Upgraded to the new technology using AngularJS (as the client-side API framework) jQuery, jQuery UI Widgets, Bootstrap, jqGrid, HTML5 and CSS 2.x/3.0  ? Developed the stored procedures and queries, utilizing LINQ to Entities and on the client side, the jQuery UI autocomplete widgets which retrieved data in JSON format in instamtameous results. Android Developer OneVision Software - Andover, MA June 2015 to January 2016 Developed Online and Offline Android software using Adobe ActionScript 3.0 and Flex SDK 4..  ? Assisted in developing a product in organizations can newspapers, magazines and other types of publications.  ? Developed the software so that if the user subscribed, the publication would be downloaded with all of its' videos, audio, images, slideshows, etc., parsed, and each page would display the content depending on what kind of multimedia or just text, was used per article.  ? Developed each page as a bitmap, for zooming in and out and displaying the publication as one or two pages depending on the state of the device. Senior ASP.NET / C# Developer AngularJS and Bootstrap - Boston, MA February 2014 to May 2015 Position included updating a legacy web app, written in PHP 5 and MySQL, to ASP.NET MVC4, C#, JavaScript; and third party JavaSscript libraries including jQuery, AngularJS and Bootstrap.  ? Changed SQL data calls from synchronous to asynchronous, using AJAX calls in jQuery.  ? Converted all SQL and SPROCs from MySQL to SQL Server 2012. Senior Front-End UI Developer / ASP.NET (C#) Developer Portland, ME January 2013 to January 2014 Consultant Position)  ? Hired to worked for a billion-dollar project for a major insurance company.  ? We had daily Agile Scrum meetings with sprints that were 2 weeks in duration. The project went from design to production and was an instant success.  ? Utilized HTML5, CSS, jQuery, Bootstrap, and KnockoutJS for the UI, SPAs and two-way binding.  ? Developed C# entity framework methods for data retrieval and database insertion.  ? Handled tasks and workflows using C#; and developed a web socket application using SignalR.  ? Successfully created a dashboard for the user, which had drag and drop JavaScript functions on a page that had small, medium and small tiles. Software Engineer KDPaine &Partners - Durham, NH January 2012 to December 2012 Redesigned a program that measured the popularity of a client's product, based on popularity within social media comments, articles.  ? Redesigned their program from 2005 ASP.NET technology, to more modern 2010 ASP.NET technology. This included displaying data using jQuery AJAX calls, as opposed to full-page ADO.NET calls.  ? Utilized Visual Studio 2010 IDE to call social media (Facebook and Twitter) APIs to get user comments and news articles regarding a clients product.  ? Utilized ASP.NET Web Forms and MVC, C#, JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS (as the client-side MVC API), web service calls, HTML5 and CSS3.  ? Converted their ADO.NET DB calls to Entity Framework. Updated the database through calling SPROC's and T-SQL in SQL Server 2012 LINQ to Entities. C# Developer / UI Developer Capital Transportation Logistics - Manchester, NH January 2011 to December 2011 Architected a web application from an existing Windows Application. Converted the ASP.NET 2.0 project, to ASP.NET 4. The application called a service that showed the fastest and cheapest method to deliver packages and the application was built around this.  ? Researched, Architected, Documented, Developed and Placed into Production many new API's.  ? UI Development utilizing HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript4, jQuery 1.7 and jQuery UI.  ? Utilized WCF with SOAP, XSLT, C# 4.0 and LINQ to Entities (to make CRUD calls using SQL Server 2008), LINQ to Objects and LINQ to XML. UI and Applications Developer Rochester, NH January 2010 to November 2010 Worked as a consultant creating a project that did location tracking for hospitals.  ? Developed a C# application that would read tracking hardware and obtain its location.  ? Utilized threading to handle multiple signals being read  ? Created a project in Action Script and Flex which handled the data passed from the C# project.  ? Utilized a JSON-based web service to input location information into SQL Server.  ? Assisted in the design of the Flash UI map that would take the coordinates and display the tag on a 2D drawn map of the site. Lead Web Developer Micro Key Software - Kissimmee, FL December 2008 to December 2009 Updated their legacy alarm system application which used regular ASP, JavaScript, HTML, VBScript and SQL Server 2000. Utilized Visual Studio 2008 .NET, along with C# for server-side development.  ? Utilized AJAX, jQuery, JSON Web Services and JavaScript.  ? Used web services using COM objects from a Delphi class to display the results in ASP.NET. Software Engineer WealthPools, International - Orlando, FL October 2006 to December 2008 Designed an online CRM, for marketing, sales, technical support and accounting.  ? Developed a control panel for users to add their accounts, keep track of revenue and handle all of their affairs within the program.  ? Utilized Visual Studio .NET 2005 with C# as the server-side language and SQL Server 2005.  ? Developed client-side UI using the ASP.NET controls, HTML, CSS, JavaScript and AJAX.  ? Developed CRUD operations using ADO.NET. Also developed stored procedures, user defined functions, triggers and views on the database that would be called and return results that we needed. Education Bachelor of Computer Science in Computer Science BOSTON COLLEGE - Chestnut Hill, MA Skills C# Developer / UI Developer