Sr. Enterprise Cybersecurity Architect Sr. Enterprise Cybersecurity Architect Sr. Enterprise Cybersecurity Architect - Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Charles Town, WV An energetic, self-motivated and hard working individual with experience in all aspects of Information Technology. Able to use own initiative and work as part of a team. Proven leadership skills, including managing and motivating other team members to achieve organizational objectives. An effective communicator at all levels within an organization. Excellent problem solving and analytical skills. Well versed in all things computer related. Work Experience Sr. Enterprise Cybersecurity Architect Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation September 2017 to Present Applies the FDIC framework for IT security architecture in developing and maintaining the data, security, application, and technical infrastructure needed for the Enterprise  Architecture (EA).    Develops and maintains standards, principles, reference models, and frameworks that  support IT security architecture, including communicating the standards, principles and framework in various forums.    Creates visual depictions of the IT elements that compose the IT security architecture, and the specification of the relationships between those components.    Applies enterprise architecture strategy in developing the target and vision architecture.    Assesses technology and IT industry security direction to determine if program changes are  needed.    Coordinates activities with FDIC Enterprise Architects, NIST, OMB, vendor and government  systems architects to ensure FDIC's interests are addressed.    Provides highly specialized technical advice concerning security implementation within all  FDIC implementations.    Analyzes technical configuration options and makes decisions on the best alternatives.    Assesses Corporation, legislative and oversight agency actions to determine if they require  program changes or new initiatives in the area of security architecture.    Maintains liaison with other Federal agencies, industry groups and vendors to keep abreast of new developments in the IT industry that impact FDIC programs.    Manages project teams for IT security activity programs.    Provides comprehensive management and support for IT security programs.    Stays abreast of all current and emerging technologies related to development and design  of business processes and applications (such as a services oriented architecture (SOA)) in support of the security architecture.    Makes decisions and develops recommendations in the security program area that influence  important agency or OCISO IT policies and inter-related programs.    Provides input to planning, budget, security, configuration, and problem management  processes related to the security program area.    Prepares and presents briefings to senior management officials and contractor management  officials on complex and controversial issues.    Communicates complex technical requirements, issues, and problems to both technical and non-technical personnel.    Assesses threat and risk data to determine the level of security risk around agency mission activities. Sr. Software Architect/Tech Lead Department of Veterans Affairs August 2014 to September 2017 Acts as a Sr. Software Architect and Technical Lead for several VA health and benefits projects. Over the past three years, Provided SME support across security, software development, configuration management, and enterprise solution stand up. Provided feedback and support on the VA PIV implementation and actively worked to provide thought leadership and to act as a change agent to improve the VA's ability to deliver solid hardware/ software solutions for U.S. Veterans in healthcare and benefits. Produced the VA VIC program and provided all Veterans with a Veteran ID Card.    • Implemented enterprise CRUD applications using the following technologies  ? Hibernate with Oracle backing  ? EclipseLink with Oracle backing  ? Struts  ? jQuery  ? Spring  ? Custom JavaScript  ? Maven  ? Eclipse  • Implemented Jenkins/RTC/Maven integration to perform continuous code integration for both major and minor releases  • Migrated legacy source code from Dimensions to RTC  • Implemented automated 508 compliance checks for existing and new source code using SonarCube and Jenkins automation.  • Implemented automated Fortify scans for codebase security using Jenkins and Fortify.  • Provided leadership and guidance to peers for existing projects and new project initiatives.  • Provided hardware, software and developer resource and cost estimates for new and existing projects.  • Provided project studies and analysis for new projects as requested.  • Outlined benefits, risks and alternatives for new projects.  • Performed planning, installation, and configuration of new products and custom solutions as requested.  • Experience in planning both long and short-term goals to meet project milestones.  • Experienced in leading full stack implementations from bare metal or VM installs.  • Responsible for requirements breakdown into functional requirements and implementation.  • Responsible for leading a team of peer developers and contractors across various projects.  • Responsible for documentation around each solution. For example, Engineering Responses, Design Diagrams and End User documentation.  • Responsible for various ATO related engagements.  • Responsible for migration of applications from VB6 to modern languages.  • Provided guidance and support for ATO remediation around the Emergency Department Integration Software, the Patient Advocate Tracking Software, and Veteran Crisis Line applications. Sr. Software Architect Department of Defense June 2012 to August 2014 Acted as Sr. Software Architect and Technical Lead for a wide range of contractor and FTE resources on several DOD projects and initiatives at JIATFS. Responsible for coordination with various intelligence community groups, software design, development and deployment to production environments. Implemented Common Access Card (CAC) for DOD projects under a tight deadline, in addition to several other solutions. Responsible for the solution cradle to grave. Handed off the solution to the latest team members when I moved over to the VA.    • Implemented enterprise CRUD application using the following technologies  ? Hibernate with Oracle backing  ? EclipseLink with Postgre backing  ? Prime Faces JSF  ? jQuery  ? Spring  ? Custom JavaScript  ? Google Earth API  ? Hadoop  ? Accumulo  • Used Maven for JAR tracking  • JIRA/Redmine for trouble tickets  • Confluence for requirements capture  • Responsible for maintaining Tomcat servers on both Linux and Windows  • Supported several ATOs  • Implemented a PKI solution for the application using standard DOD CAC's  • Created custom servlets to handle blob content queries from an Oracle Database  • Responsible for project management of new and existing projects.  • Responsible for implementing full stack installs from bare metal or VMs.  • Responsible for requirements capture and break down into functional requirements.  • Responsible for leading a team of peers and contractors across various projects.  • Responsible for documentation around each solution. For example, Engineering Responses, Design Diagrams and End User documentation. Software Architect SRA Platinum Solutions August 2010 to May 2012 Acted as SME / Sr. Software Architect for SRA on several intelligence community contracts. Worked as part of a diverse team to design and implement SSO solutions to provide single sign on for a wide range of downstream service consumers. Responsible for design, implementation, delivery and after action support.    • Worked with the ITIM / TAM API's to create a solution for the customer.  • Customized WebSEAL EAI Servlets to meet customer needs.  • Worked extensively with Websphere clusters.  • Worked with RSA-AA API's,  • XI50 DataPower development.  • Implemented a custom SecurID integration.  • Performed static analysis of the code base using CodePro Analytix.  • Worked with Subversion for daily build and deploys.  • Worked with ClearCase for final deliveries.  • Responsible for all documentation around each solution. For example, Engineering Responses, Design Diagrams and End User documentation.  • Worked directly with the customer to address issues as they were discovered.  • Worked with both large and small teams to create solutions based on customer requirements.  • Created several SOAP and REST services to support testing of COTS products.  • Wrote custom web applications in an MVC pattern implementation to support both mobile and PC clients.  • Performed various troubleshooting activities around connectivity issues with Java API's  • Worked on various issues related to DB2 connections.  • Worked primarily in Red Hat and Solaris environments.  • Updated ANT builds as needed to add additional applications to a unified ANT build and deployment script.  • Implemented a CRUD application using Oracle ADF JSF. Implemented in JSF 1.2 and 2.0.  • Worked extensively with Weblogic servers  • Worked extensively with OBIEE    PTC Project Experience: Developer/Tech Consultant Raytheon October 2009 to August 2010 Industry FA&D    Acted as Developer and Technical consultant for Raytheon. Worked with several distributed teams against a combined timeline to deliver solutions for the DOD.    • Provided support for the ongoing PDMLink integration.  • Updated various Windchill and custom Java API to meet customer requirements.  • Updated or wrote custom JavaScript to fix identified issues.  • Updated JSP's and CSS in response to bugs generated by the customer in Bugzilla.  • Worked with ClearCase daily to make changes.  • Updated Java servlets, JSP's and the Database as needed to address issues.  • Worked primarily in Windows using multiple VM's and in Solaris.  • Created/Updated Cognos reports as needed. Developer/Tech Consultant U.S. Air Force Hanscom November 2008 to September 2009 Industry: US Govt    Acted as Developer and Technical Consultant for the Air Force. Worked with local teams and the customer to provide an application software, Gantt chart solutions and Cognos reports as described in the contract. Responsible for design, implementation, and delivery.    • Worked on a Portfolio Management tool for the U.S. Air Force to provide a visual representation of a Projects time to release.  • Wrote a custom Portfolio Management solution that used Windchill as the main integration point between the user experience and the back end.  • Used JSP, Javascript, XML, XSLT, CSS, Java to create a solution that provided a Gantt view of Programs, Projects, Milestones and custom deliverables.  • Used Java API's to implement calendar functionality to help drive the view based on customer input.  • Worked primarily in Windows using multiple VM's.  • Created/Updated Cognos reports as needed.    *Environment: Windchill ProjectLink 9.0 M10, Oracle, Solaris Server, Tomcat, Apache, JSP Developer/Tech Consultant U.S. Navy September 2008 to November 2008 Industry: US Govt    Acted as Developer and Technical Consultant on the Navy LOA/APS tool. Provided design, implementation, documentation and interacted with management and the customer as needed to iron out requirements.    • Worked on LOA/APS tool.  • Provided code cleanup of various bugs related to the tool.  • Updated JavaScript, Java, CSS to fix issues outlined by the customer.  • Worked primarily in Windows using multiple VM's.  • Created/Updated Cognos reports as needed.    Environment: Windchill PDMLink 8.0, Oracle, Microsoft Excel 2003, Apache, Tomcat, JSP Service Technician Qualxserv, Tewkesbury, MA July 2007 to 2008 • Dell certified technician performing various hardware replacement for local users. Working on all Dell models.  • Performed motherboard replacements on all Dell model laptops  • Performed component upgrades of all Dell models.  • Worked directly in customer's home or businesses as needed to replace the components.  • Worked primarily in Windows using multiple VM's. Education Ph.D. in classes Capella University 2016 to 2019 Masters in Information Security and Assurance in Information Security and Assurance Capella University December 2011 B.S. in Computer Science Baker College August 2007 A.S. in Web Design Baker College August 2006 Skills Db2, Dbms, Sql server, Oracle, Sql, Toplink, C#, C++, Firebase, Gradle, Hadoop, Html, Javascript, Middleware, Ms project, Object oriented, Subversion, Vb.net, Visio, Xml Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information Interested in designing, testing, implementing and leading long term and short term efforts in the Federal space.    Key Skills:    • A solid understanding in object oriented design, service oriented design and architecture development.  • Mastery and skill of IT and EA principles including computer/system architectures, application architectures, IT analysis design, and development, personnel and organizational elements, hardware, software and implementation.  • Mastery of and skill in applying a comprehensive knowledge of Federal and Corporation information security policies and understanding of information security principles, practices, techniques, and methods.  • Mastery of and skill in applying a comprehensive knowledge of computer software and hardware support requirements such as physical access control systems, encryption and digital signature software, and virus protection software.  • Mastery of and skill in interpreting regulations and other documents applying critical thinking, analyzing and interpreting to determine content of codes, laws, and other documents containing legal terminology, identifying the potential effects of policy statements and procedural direction on programs, beneficiaries, and stakeholders, and determining required implementation processes.  • Mastery of and skill in applying performance monitoring principles and methods in the security program areas.  • Mastery of and skill in applying analytical methods sufficient to explain facts, data, or other information and make correct inferences or draw accurate conclusions.  • Mastery of and skill in applying Project Management principles, methods, and practices including plan and schedule development, resource requirement estimation, milestone and deliverable definition, activity monitoring, and accomplishment evaluation and reporting.  • Mastery of and skill in applying oral and written communication techniques sufficient to communicate with contractor personnel and management at all levels.  • Ability to create visual depictions of the IT elements that compose the architecture, and the specification to the relationships between those components.  • Knowledge and skill in applying new and emerging IT technologies and their application to the security program area.  • Knowledge of and skill in applying technical documentation methods and procedures.  • Windchill PDMLink  • Windchill ProjectLink  • Automation  • Full Stack Development  • DevSecOps  • Data Management  • Cognos  • Portfolio Management  • Project Management  • Java implementations  • Javascript/Ajax implementations  • XML/HTML/CSS/XSL/SAML implementations  • Agile Programming Methodologies  • Prototyping  • Skilled with writing and designing security for the enterprise.  • Skilled with all phases of the SDLC. Able to follow a process or help to outline one as needed.  • Skilled with Parts management, Document management, Change management and Portfolio management.  • ITIM/TAM API's implementations  • Tivoli products implementations  • RSA Adaptive Authentication implementations  • IBM DataPower XI50 implementations  • IBM WSRR implementations  • SOA Integrations  • Comfortable with taking ownership of existing codebases and making updates to meet customer requirements.  • SecurID Implementations  • Project planning  • Secure implementations using automation and manual review techniques  • System planning  • Configuration and installation  • PKI with PIV and CAC implementations  • Process design and creation    Technical Competencies:    • Languages: Java, relational SQL and HTML, XML, CSS, Javascript, XSL, trained in C++, VB.NET, some C#.  • Web/JSP Servers: Apache Tomcat, MS IIS, Websphere, Weblogic, Glassfish  • Utilities: Apache ANT, JUnit, CodePro, Maven, Fortify, Gradle  • Operating Systems: All Windows versions, Linux and Unix  • DBMS: Oracle, SQL Server, DB2, Mongo, Hadoop, Firebase  • Tools: MS Project, Visio, Macromedia Suite(Now Adobe - Fireworks/Dreamweaver etc), Word, Outlook, DBVisualizer, ClearCase, Rational Rose, Eclipse, Subversion, Netbeans, ClearQuest, Jazz RTC, JRebel, SqlDeveloper, JDeveloper  • Middleware: OBIEE, BPEL, ADF, TopLink, BPM