Lead Software Developer Lead <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Lead Software Developer - RDA Corporation Application developer with three years of experience creating, improving, and maintaining software, web apps, and databases, utilizing a wide variety of tools, languages, and libraries on Microsoft, AWS, and other open source platforms. Work Experience Lead Software Developer RDA Corporation October 2018 to Present Full-stack development working between back-end .NET applications, SQL Server management,  JS/HTML/CSS web development, and several other technologies.    Lead Software Developer (Oct 2018 - Present)  ? Worked on large-scale biomedical project integrating a medical diagnostic platform with a new microbiological automation technology, implemented new identity management service, installed custom security on the .NET backend.  ? Designed and built Alexa application to assist lab workers in different experimentation processes including providing procedural steps, recording experimentation results & observations, and retrieving & processing recorded data. Modeled Alexa skill and SQL database to interact with Node.js-based AWS lambda function on network VPC. Software Developer RDA Corporation October 2016 to October 2018 ? Healthcare solution service back-end development work with C# .NET - building, updating, and improving API structures and methods, integrating database models, SQL Server database management, including creating/updating tables, procedures, views, rebuilding table relation dependencies. Front-end model-view-viewmodel web development with KnockoutJS.  ? Processed and validated large data sets through Hadoop cluster and basic QA unit testing, built validation tools using Scala to track missing or malformed data. Technology Intern FINRA May 2015 to August 2015 ? Java-based development through automation framework to ensure that software processes/features ran correctly, automated processes that were done manually/made time-consuming tasks run automatically with little-to-no human labor. Education B.S. in Computer Science University of Delaware - Newark, DE Skills Git (3 years), Javascript (3 years), Asp.Net (3 years), CSS (3 years), HTML 5 (3 years), C# (3 years), Java (2 years), SQL (3 years), Visual Studio (3 years), JIRA (3 years) Certifications/Licenses Microsoft 070-480 Developing Applications with HTML5/CSS3/JavaScript November 2016 to Present Microsoft 070-761 Querying Data with Transact-SQL September 2018 to Present