Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer - Lumeris Healthcare St. Louis, MO • 4.7 years of strong software experience in Java/J2EE based application development and experience and Support of web/enterprise applications.  • Experienced in Design and Development of multi-tier enterprise applications using Java, J2EE, Spring, Servlets, JSP, JSF, Hibernate, JDBC, Java Beans and Web services.  • Knowledge on Amazon Web services and various services such as DMS, S3 buckets, EC2 instance, RDS instances, lambda functions.  • Experienced in using software development methodologies (Agile, Scrum), Continuous integration and Test-Driven Development.  • Experienced with development IDEs such as Eclipse, IntelliJ and Spring tool suite, Visual studio code.  • Experience with standard internet protocols such as HTTP, SMTP, HTTPS, FTP.  • Experience in Agile development methodologies and Version Control tools like SVN and GIT.  • Proficient in implementing Object Oriented Programming (OOPS) using JAVA/J2EE technologies like Core Java (OOPS, Collections, Threads), JSP, JDBC, Spring, Hibernate, Restful web services.  • Experienced in using web/application servers such as Apache Tomcat, IBM WebSphere, IBM WebLogic.  • Experience with XML and related standards and technologies like SOA, Web Services and API integration experience, SOAP, WSDL, XML, JAXB, JAX-WS.  • Extensive experience in developing scalable, reliable and efficient enterprise applications using Java, Spring, Hibernate, Web services, JSF, JDBC, JSP, Servlets.  • Proficient in Core Java with strong understanding of data structures, algorithms, Collections, Concurrency, Multithreading, Event handling and performance tuning. Expert implementing multithreading in python.  • Experienced in integrating enterprise applications using JMS, SOAP and RESTful Web services  • Experience in developing web applications using Spring MVC frame work and Object-Relational Mapping (ORM) technologies such as JPA, Hibernate and Eclipse.  • Proficient in implementation of frameworks like spring, JSF, AJAX frameworks and ORM frameworks like Hibernate.  • Experience in writing Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, Functions and Packages using TOAD.  • Excellent experience with major relational databases Oracle 11g/10g, SQL Server 2005/2008, DB2, and MySQL.  • Experience with JavaScript and JavaScript frame works JQuery, JQuery UI, AngularJS.  • Experience in developing small scale python based lambda applications.  • Provided 24x7 on call support in production environment on rotation basis. Work Experience Software Developer Lumeris Healthcare - St. Louis, MO June 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Worked on Lumeris data services platform by analyzing business requirements, technical designing, implementation and documentation using Agile Methodologies.  • Involved in developing applications with REST web services and experienced with securing the rest web services.  • Migrated core applications from tomcat 7 to tomcat 8.524 under cargo container and debugged issues and also fixed them in a very less time.  • Developed lambda applications in both Java and python.  • Created multi-threading applications in both java and python using concurrent futures library.  • Worked on creating AWS resources, Lambda, RDS through cloud formation templates.  • Worked on JUnit tests for the API using Mockito  • Created and Consumed Restful Web Services using Spring boot.  • Implemented SOA architecture with web services using SoapUI, WSDL and RESTful.  • Designed GUI using JQuery, CSS to improve visual effect on the dynamic front-end.  • Used Bamboo to build and deploy the code in Dev and SIT environments.  • Developed Web Services clients to consume those Web Services as well other enterprise wide Web Services.  • Used AWS DMS to work on data migration from S3 to RDS Postgres.  • Using UML, Java/J2EE, Web technologies that include JSP, Servlets, Struts, JMS, JDBC, HTML, XML, Java Script and Hibernate.  • Worked on Apache spark process to start the batch work on s3 files.  • Strong experience in working with Core Java concepts like OOPS, Multi-threading, Exception handling, Generics, Collections, Networking etc.  • Implemented the web layer using Spring, JQuery  • Exposed the Web Services to the client applications by sharing the WSDL's.  • Method references are used provided in Java8 to make use of methods already named.  • Used core java for multithreading and exception handling  • Worked on Junit testing using Mockito framework.  • Used Core Java Collections, Exception Handling, multithreading and generics.  • Involved in development of service layer and DAO layer using Spring framework and Hibernate  • Being a part of production team provided 24x7 supports for all the environments.    Environments:JAVA8, J2EEApplication server, Spring, Hibernate, Web Services, HTML, CSS, SQL Server, AngularJS, AWS, Oracle 11g, Apache Tomcat 8.524, VMware. Software Engineer Enterprise Holdings - St. Louis, MO April 2016 to May 2018 Responsibilities:  • Involved in high level design, Application design, and development and testing of Vehicle Fleet Management Application for Enterprise, Alamo and National rental providers.  • Worked on Order Status Inquiry (OSI) application and the main role of that project is to receive, process, and track order status and invoice status from each manufacturer.  • Designed front end with JavaScript, jQuery.  • Implemented Spring MVC, dependency Injection and AOP Aspect oriented programming.  • Developed MVC design pattern based User Interface using JSP, XML, HTML, CSS and Struts.  • Created dynamic pages using HTML5, CSS3, JQuery and JavaScript for client-side validation.  • Wrote application front end with HTML, JSP, and Ajax/JQuery. Wrote custom JSP tags for role-based sorting and filtering.  • Developed server-side services using Java multithreading, spring, Web Services (SOAP, AXIS).  • Involved in the design and development phases of Scrum Agile Software Development.  • Responsible for creating the detailed design and technical documents based on the business requirements.  • Used Dependency Injection feature of spring framework and Involved in writing the database integration code using Hibernate, leveraged the AOP features of spring framework to handle exceptions.  • Developed services that are reusable and interoperable, based on SOAP, WSDL, Web services.  • Worked with design pattern like MVC and used Spring framework, XML, Servlets, HTML, CSS and Java for web application  • Well versed with core Java concepts like Collections, Serialization and Servlets, JSP.  • Proficient in deployment and troubleshooting of JAR, WAR and EAR files in domain and clustered environments of WebSphere Application server.  • Implemented some of the exception handling mechanisms using core java.  • Installed, configured and managed apache webserver.  • Strong knowledge and working experience on Optimization and performance tuning techniques.  • Configured and created JMS queues & topics, Connection Factories, Data sources, bridges & connections pools & multi connection pool.    Environment:Java8, JDK1.5, J2EE,Core Java, Python, Spring, Hibernate, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AngularJS, Bamboo, WebSphere App Server, VMware, Tomcat, WebSphere portal, XML, JIRA, Oracle10g, Oracle 11g, Ant1.5.1, Linux, FTP.    Accenture, INDIA Java Developer Microsoft May 2014 to December 2015 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for the implementation of application system with Core Java and spring framework.  • Created and injected spring services, spring controllers and DAOs to achieve dependency injection.  • Designed and Implemented REST web Services for the application  • Automated and scheduled backups on all UNIX Machines using shell scripts.  • Performance tuning was done with respect to system, connection pools Execute threads and JVM heap size.  • Installed, configured and integrated Web servers (plug-in file), SiteMinder agents and LDAP user directory with WAS.  • Installation and configuration of BPM v7.5  • Configured and Enabled the Global Security System for WAS Administration for Console users and Console Groups using Active Directory Server as a LDAP User Registry.  • Develop domain monitoring java class using JMX to collect JDBC, JVM, and Execute Queue statistics for Managed Servers.  • Installed and Configured the IBM BPMv 7.5/ 8.0 on various platforms like AIX, Linux and Windows in Cluster and Non Cluster Environments on AIX and Linux.  • Document and establish standard processes to ensure repeatability for J2EE administrators.  • Provided Migration configuration for transactions, security, services, JMS servers and services while transitioning from development to production environment.  • Installed Oracle 8i/9i/10g client software on the application server and configuring the connectivity using JDBC drivers for the database.  • Deployment and Troubleshooting of JAR, WAR and EAR applications in clustered environment with WebSphere.  • Created Tomcat instances and modified each and removed shared component.  • Installed APR, OpenSSL, Tomcat-native, Oracle JDK, Oracle JRE, Tomcat connector Mod_jk, APR Utility.  • Installed and Configured LDAP server.  • Implemented Load balancing of web applications by configuring WebSphere proxy plug-in.  • Performance tuning by managing and monitoring the JVM performance by WebSphere Heap size, garbage collection, execute threads, EJB Cache size, JDBC pools and multi pools.  • Performed extensive trouble shooting experience including stack trace analysis and JVM tuning experience by changing to heap sizes according to the requirement.  • Wrote scripts (start, stop & ping) for web application server administration.  • Configured SSL Certificates for WebSphere and Apache servers.  • Monitored free space, disk usage, locating files, checking & clearing log files, administration & monitoring of file systems, network & virtual memory statistics.    Environment: Java, J2EE, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, WebSphere Server 8.x, Jenkins, WSRR, IIB, SUN Solaris 8.0/10.0, Linux, Oracle 10g, JDK 1.4/1.5,1.6, Servlets, EJB 2.0, Apache. Education Bachelor's Skills ECLIPSE, J2EE, JAVA, JDK, JSDK, Spring, Hibernate, Javascript Additional Information Technical Skills:    Programming Languages: C, JAVA, Java8, Core Java, J2EE, SQL, PL/SQL, Python  Operating Systems: LINUX, Windows 98/2000/NT/XP/VISTA.  Middleware: OSB 10g, J2EE, JBoss4.2.3/4.3.0.  Web Technologies: JDK 1.4/1.5/1.6 HTML, XML.  Scripting Languages: UNIX Shell Scripting, Perl Scripting.  Packages: JSDK 2.0, J2EE, Python.  Monitoring and Testing Tools: Nosetests, Mockito, Bamboo, Sonar, OEM 11g.  IDE's/Utilities: Eclipse, Putty.  Database: Oracle 10g/11g, MS SQL Server, DB2.  Tools: Bitbucket, JIRA, Confluence, Bamboo, SQL Developer  Process & Concepts: Agile, SCRUM, SDLC, Object-Oriented Analysis and Design, Test  Driven Development, Continuous Integration, bamboo builds.