Lead Software Engineer Lead <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Lead Software Engineer - Parcel Pending Trabuco Canyon, CA Software Engineer with a love for bridging the gap between web and embedded technologies Work Experience Lead Software Engineer Parcel Pending - Irvine, CA February 2018 to Present I am currently working as an IoT engineer at a company supplying smart parcel lockers for management, security, and organization of packages delivered to multifamily housing communities and private/corporate businesses. Our kiosk application demands a wide range of electrical components and web technologies to get the job done. I have lead the charge in designing and developing software to integrate RFID modules, Barcode scanners, thermal printers, card-readers, external relays and I/O boards with our kiosk application.     Software Development:   ? Design, build, and maintain kiosk application for Smart Locker system using NodeJS, and Angular 5+ with Electron.   ? Built multiple test-driven Node JS APIs and SDKs to   communicate with and control our wide range of micro-controllers monitoring infrared, photosensitive, and thermal sensors via USB, RS485, RS232, and IP protocols?.   ? Design and build UI for real-time data collection from IR and thermal sensors.   ? Build Node.js API wrapper for C++ API using node FFI.  ? Design and create NPM package to be used in communicating   with USB relay modules.   ? Design and build CLI tool for debugging Locker system.  ? Create serverless API using AWS Lambda to be used with our   Amazon Alexa skill.  ? Lead 3 team members in preparing and releasing multiple new   products/features including: RFID integration, live-streaming video to phone application, Automated lighting for our outdoor systems, and thermal printers for shipping labels.   ? Design and develop test-driven temperature control API for refrigerated/freezer lockers enabling lockers to be controlled remotely via our web application. Lead Software Developer Smart Home Device - Irvine, CA December 2017 to February 2018 Built IoT microcontroller to automate lights and a camera around a home via custom Alexa Skill.    Software/Technologies used:  • AWS Lambda function built with NodeJS  • API Gateway to communicate with Alexa skill  • Alexa skill development  • ESP8266 development board embedded system with C++ Software Engineer Orange Technology - Orange County, CA July 2017 to December 2017 Freelance Web development for clients requiring web applications/static sites for their small/mid-size businesses    Software/Technologies used:  • AWS EC2 Linux AMI  • Front end development with Angular 2+ with Angular Material  • Node JS backend  • Sequelize ORM  • Mongoose  • MYSQL  • MongoDB Education BA in Mathematics Thomas Aquinas College - Santa Paula, CA August 2013 to May 2017 Skills Javascript, MySQL, Git, Android, AWS (2 years), Node JS (3 years), Angular (2 years), RFID (1 year), MySQL (2 years), MongoDB (1 year), Linux (3 years), Unix (3 years), AWS Lambda (1 year), Mocha (2 years), CI/CD (1 year), TravisCI (1 year), Socket.io (2 years), HTML 5, Jquery