Net Developer Net <span class="hl">Developer</span> Net Developer - Verizon To build a successful career as a technical architect in software Design and Development and seek a position in an organization where I can productively employ my sound technical skills and provide a promising career development. Work Experience Net Developer Verizon July 2018 to Present Worked as a .Net Developer with: Maximind Software Solutions Pvt Ltd. from July 2014 to June 2018.  • 4.5years of software development experience involving in some stages of software Development life cycle (SDLC) including Analyzing Requirements, Designing and Maintenance of web-based applications.  • Extensive knowledge of building web-based N-Tiered applications and windows applications based on Microsoft.NetFramework4.5/4.0/3.5/3.0/2.0using ASP.NET, C#, VB.NET, ADO.NET, AJAX, JavaScript, XML, HTML, DHTML, CSS and COM/DCOM technologies.  • Extensive knowledge of applying Object oriented analysis and Design (OODAD) concepts like inheritance, polymorphism, Encapsulation and abstraction, Design pattern like singleton and abstract Factory, Model-View-Controller (MVC) and Model -View-View-Model (MVVM) framework.  • Extensive knowledge of applying Bootstrap, Minification and bundling concepts.  • Extensive experience in developing AngularJS, Web API, Signal-R, Windows Azure and Telluric Controls.  • Extensive experience in developing and consuming XML Web Services using Windows Communication Foundation (WCF), Web Service Definition Language (WSDL) and SOAP.  • Experience in Handling and Understanding Functional Requirements at client Side and coordinating with team members.  • Involved in increasing the Performance of the website.  • Willing to adapt to new technologies and work environments.  Technical Skills:  Operating Systems: Windows family.  Packages: MS-Office, Adobe Photoshop, DBMS.  Programming Languages: C, C++, C#.Net, VB.Net.  Web Technologies: HMTL5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, AngularJS, Asp.Net, Ajax,  RDBMS: SQL Server2005/2008/2014.  Design Patterns: Microsoft ASP.Net MVC2/3/4/5, MVVM.  IDE Tools: VS.Net.  Reporting Tools: Crystal Reports.  SOAP Programming Tools: Web Services, WCF, Web API.    Current Project: CBSCNE (custom business services customer network engineering) System Developer Verizon July 2018 to Present USA Based)  Environment: Classic ASP, C#, ASP.Net, JavaScript, JQuery, Angular6, SQL Server 2014  Duration: July 2018 to till date.  Role: System Developer.    Description:  CBSCNE is the only system recognizing special construction requirement in Verizon network and also one of the pricing systems used in Verizon, USA to find custom pricing for small, medium and large scale telecommunication Voice/Video/Internet/Wireless/FIOS service requests. This involves sales, Costing , pricing and Network work groups to arrive cost of the service requested by the customer and figure out how the service can be established from the existing point of presence by Verizon, USA and what type of construction required for the service requested by the customer.  System does automation for various user group assignments for customer requests, Switch selection & reservation using WCF, Excel Import and export, etc., Parallel work-flow management using windows services. Quote Estimation, Milestone Dates calculation, Contract Establishment, Construction Investment and analysis Tool integration are main organs in CBSCNE. Project necessitates interfacing with many other projects through web services.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in resolving of all Ticket issues and implement additional Tasks.  • Fixing of all errors and bugs and explaining requirement to the team members.  • Having knowledge on working with Stored Procedures.    Project-1 Title: soft office (ERP solution) software programmer EBenzSys January 2018 to June 2018 Description:  Soft office is a complete office management solution. Soft office is a powerful solution for small, medium and large business enterprises which can be customized if your business requirement is specific. Soft office enables you to retrieve complete information from entry level to exit. It offers a widely diversified function range both for manufacturing and marketing industry. Soft office optimizes your business processes from front office to back office, purchases and sales, production and inventory, time & attendance and payroll, financial accounts and works monitoring.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in GUI Designing and Coding.  • Designing database Using Entity Framework.  • Presentation layer development using MVC  • Having knowledge on working with Stored Procedures  • Fixing of all errors and bugs and explaining requirement to team members.  • Interaction with various members of team to discuss and resolve defects.  • Involved in Performance of the website.    Project-2 Title: software resource planning tool Internal Product Tool January 2017 to November 2017 Description:  Software Resource Planning Tool deals with the various levels of project development and will account for time used in phase via analysis, design, coding, testing and implementation etc. This project gives the management clear picture of usage of time by projects. By analyzing the results provided by the software they might rectify the defects in utilizing time and take remedial actions.  Roles &Responsibilities:    • Developing the Code.  • Designing database Using Entity Framework.  • Presentation layer development using MVC  • Involved in Applying Bootstrap for the Design phase.  • Involved in writing Minification and Bundling files.  • Interaction with various members of team to discuss and resolve defects.    Project-3 Title: indiandeals4u (E-Commerce Website) software programmer Dish4sale - US December 2015 to December 2016 Description:  Indiadeals4u is a running online store, provides the easiest way of doing shopping online by selecting goods in the cart and pay once for all selected items. Simple catalog set up, Configuring Payment, shipping & Tax Options , Product Promotions , flexible web store design, Manage orders , customer information , Inventory , Reports etc., are the outstanding features of application. It is configured with PayPal, EBS for accepting secure payments from the customers buying online.  Responsibilities:  • Been as part of an 8-member team.  • Have implemented the user interface and web forms part of application  • Designed the Front end for my module by using C# and ASP.Net.  • Involved in Coding and Design phase.  • Having knowledge on working with Stored Procedures  • Making use of .NET (C#, ASP) technologies and SQL Server as back end connectivity.  • Interaction with various members of team to discuss and resolve defects.  • Maintaining good coordination with the team  Project-4 Title: myusapayroll software programmer CPS Pvt. Ltd January 2015 to September 2015 Description:  This is an US payroll process targeting to small and mid-Sized Company who rely on third party for processing payroll solutions, This product allow you the end to end solutions of the payroll processing such as adding employee, maintaining employee under different pay periods and hourly or salary based calculation of taxes for the employs and maintaining the tax details for the further needs and printing the checks or depositing the salaries in to their bank accounts  Responsibilities:  • Involved in Coding and Design phase.  • Having knowledge on working with Stored Procedures  • Designed the Front end for my module by using C# and ASP.Net.  • Have implemented the user interface and web forms part of application  • Making use of .NET (C#, ASP) technologies and SQL Server as back end connectivity.  • Used ADO.NET for MS SQL Server database interactions using Data Adapters, Data Reader and Dataset.  • Involved in database connections with Data Access Layer and coding with Business Entity Layer and building all 3-tier applications.  • Interaction with various members of team to discuss and resolve defects.  Project-5 Title: Edue-campus software programmer Nalanda Educational Institutions - Nalanda, BIHAR, IN July 2014 to December 2014 Environment: C# with ASP.NET and MS SQL Server 2008.  Duration: July 2014 to Dec 2014.  Role: software programmer.  Description:  Edu-e-Campus is a software solution for managing educational institutions - Engineering Colleges, Post graduate colleges and universities. Edu-e-campus Offers complete and comprehensive information, entry to end details of Student & Staff, Administration, Examinations, Fees, Attendance, Payroll, Accounts, Library, Canteen, Hostels, Transport and Security Privileges etc., in a campus environment.  Responsibilities:  • Been as part of a 6-member team.  • Involved in Coding and Design phase.  • Having knowledge on working with Stored Procedures  • Designed the Front end for my module by using C# and ASP.Net.  • Making use of .NET (C#, ASP) technologies and SQL Server as back end connectivity.  • Involved in database connections with Data Access Layer and coding with Business Entity Layer and building all 3-tier applications.  • Maintaining good coordination with the team Education Bachelor in Computer Science Osmania University - Hyderabad, ANDHRA PRADESH, IN Techniques and Security Implementation State Management Techniques Additional Information • Positive Attitude.  • Good Interpersonal Communication Skills.  • Interaction with various members of team to discuss and resolve issues.  DECLARATION:  I hereby declare that all the information furnished above is correct and true to the best of knowledge.    Location: Hyderabad.