Software Developer Engineer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Engineer Software Developer Engineer - Test (SDET) - Venuetize LLC Tampa, FL Work Experience Software Developer Engineer Test (SDET) - Venuetize LLC - Tampa, FL January 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in developing the Test Cases, Design Test steps and associated the corresponding requirements.  • Involved in identifying Test Cases to be run for Regression Testing and conducting Regression Tests.  • Hands on Experience in Testing Rest API using Postman collections  • Familiar with Jira, Bitbucket, Confluence and other Atlassian tools  • Created Page object model framework and Implemented Java TestNg scripts to test IOS and Android Platforms.  • Hands on Experience in Testing Web Applications using AWS device farm tool.  • Experience in Using Charles proxy to capture the logs of the defect  • Hands on Experience in Reporting bugs with a detailed report by Attaching Logs to the Jira Ticket  • Implemented whole life cycle of QA Methodologies starting from Planning, Capturing, Creating, and Executing, Reporting and Tracking the defects using JIRA Xray.  • Involved full life cycle of Testing from Frontend and Backend of the applications.  • Experience working in Agile Scrum Software Development methodology with continuous integration and continuous delivery (CI/CD) implementation for efficient software delivery solutions  • Developed Page object model framework from Scratch for both Web and Native Mobile applications.  • Developed Automation script using Java.  • Involved in User Acceptance Testing (UAT) of the application Intern Software Developer Engineer Test (SDET) - Verizon - Irving, TX August 2017 to December 2017 Responsibilities:  • Analysis of Business and Requirement Specifications. Implementing Test Lab and formulation of Test plans, Test Strategy  • Ensure to guide process and technology adoption to assure apt QA testing of User Interface application  • Developed automation framework implementing Page Object Model, using JAVA, Selenium, Web Driver and Cucumber  • Used Selenium Web Driver to run test cases in multiple browsers and cross platforms  • Performed UI, Functional and Regression testing by automated using Selenium, TestNG, Maven and Jenkins  • Performed Data driven testing using Junit functions and Selenium WebDriver which examines the data properly from XML files  • Designed the test scripts and analyzed the results in various levels of the application including integration, regression, Functional and acceptance testing using Selenium  • Implemented Regression and Smoke test execution as a discrete step of the deploy process by using WebDriver  • Performed Functional Testing to identify several critical points in the application and automated it by using Selenium WebDriver  • Experience with VISION billing system  • Used SOAP-UI and Postman to test secured SOAP and REST API's Junior Software Developer Engineer Test (SDET) - MBM InfoServ - Bengaluru, Karnataka January 2014 to November 2015 Responsibilities:  • Developed automation script for Web and Mobile Native applications (IOS, Android) using Appium, Java.  • Prepared the functional test cases using test design techniques data validation concepts Equivalence partitioning, boundary value analysis.  • Involved in designing of Automation Test cases using Selenium WebDriver, Java, Junit, Maven.  • Used Selenium Grid to run test cases in multiple browsers and Platforms.  • Responsible for implementation of Hybrid Test Automation Framework, Page Object Model using Selenium WebDriver, TestNG and Maven and Java.  • Prepared test data document and Involved in generation of bug and test case execution reports.  • Good Experience in Agile methodology with SCRUM Process for the product development.  • Experienced in creating data driven, keyword driven framework from scratch.  • Participated in QA team meetings and walkthroughs for weekly QA testing review.  • Experienced in creating testing frameworks from scratch using Junit, TestNG  • Involved in Writing java Scripts to develop automated scripts and frame works.  • Used BDD framework with Cucumber, Java and created future files with scenario and scenario outline files.  • Logged and managed defects using Microsoft Test Manager (MTM) defect management tool.  • Used Java language and Junit framework for scripting. Education M.S., Computer and Information Science Southern Arkansas University B.Tech. in Electronics & Communication Engineering JNTU Hyderabad University Skills Aws (1 year), Java (3 years), Jira (1 year), Selenium (2 years), Testng (3 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Web Technologies: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, XML, XSD, SOAP.  Programming: Java, Python, C#, C++.  Databases: MySQL, SQL server.  Methodologies: Agile, Scrum, Kanban.  Automation Tools: Selenium (web driver, TestNG) Appium, Soap Ui, AWS device farm, Postman. Operating Systems: Linux (Red Hat, CentOS 7), Windows Systems and Mac OS  Bug tracking tools: JIRA, HP ALM/Quality Centre, TFS, Xray Test Management tool.