Software Engineer <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Software Engineer ? Professional Application Developer with 2.8 years of Programming experience in analysis, design, development, implementation, deployment of several Client/Server, Web Based Application Systems.  ? Experience in developing Web Applications using C#.Net, ASP.NET, MVC, WEBAPI, JavaScript, jQuery, MS-SQL Server 2012.  ? Having good knowledge in Development, Support, Unit Testing, gathering functional requirements.  ? Efficient analytical, programming skills and ability to work well in a team environment. Work Experience Software Engineer IVL Pune September 2017 to January 2018 Technical Skills Summary:  ? OS Environment: Win 7.  ? Development Environment: Visual Studio 2013  ? Programming Languages: C#.Net, HTML, JavaScript, AJAX, JQuery  ? Technology: ASP.Net, MVC.  ? Framework: .NET 4.5  ? Databases: SQL Server 2012  ? Other Tools: VSS    Key Projects:  ?'vWorkbench' ASP .Net, MVC, C#, JavaScript, jQuery    Functional Description  This web application enables user to make planning for their work, to assign the activities, to schedule the meetings, to record the meeting points, to keep track of the activities and their status, to measure performance of employees in terms of time spent on the activity and time spent within duration, to send mails depending on the events, to keep track of the events.    Role & Responsibilities  Several duties were: collection of functional requirements and technical development.    Development Environment: Visual studio 13  Front End: ASP .Net, MVC, C#, JavaScript, jQuery  Back End: SQL Server 12  Role: Programming    ? 'VSS Release App' Windows Application using C#    Functional Description  VSS release App is the small scale release application used to move VSS files from one  VSS Database to Other VSS Database to avoid inconsistency in files on Development, Testing and Production Environment. To achieve this we use VSS Interop library and read files from VSS, get there relative path in other environment and move the latest versions to other environment.    Role & Responsibilities  Several duties were: Analysis of Project and technical development.    Development Environment: Visual studio 2013  Front End: C#.Net  Back End: SQL Server 2012  Role: Programming    ? 'CRM' using ASP.Net, C#.    Functional Description  This web application enables user to keep record of the enquiry calls, complaint calls and suggestion calls by customers along with call details and customer details. It helps users to generate various types of reports as per the requirement. This application interacts with vWorkbench application.    Role & Responsibilities  Several duties were: collection of functional requirements and technical development.    Development Environment: Visual studio 13  Front End: ASP .Net, C#.Net  Back End: SQL Server 12  Role: Programming    ? 'EkatmERP' using MVC, Web API, JavaScript and JQuery.    Functional Description  This web application is migration of 'vWorkbench', 'CRM' and few other Modules such as 'User Management', 'Purchase' with better user interface.    Role & Responsibilities  Several duties were: collection of functional requirements and technical development.    Development Environment: Visual studio 13  Front End: MVC using Web API  Back End: SQL Server 12  Role: Programming    ? 'HRTMS' using MVC, JavaScript and JQuery.    Functional Description  This web application is HR management system which eases the work related to HR from the stage of giving a call to employee till the employee leaves the firm i.e. scheduling interviews, recruitment, joining formalities, CTC breakup, Exit formalities, etc.    Role & Responsibilities  Several duties were: collection of functional requirements and technical development.    Development Environment: Visual studio 13  Front End: MVC, JavaScript, jQuery  Back End: SQL Server 12  Role: Programming    Trainings attended:    ? Attended training session on JQuery.  ? Attended training session on MVC5. Software Developer Vritti Solutions Limited April 2015 to September 2017 Education BE Govt. College of Engineering 2014 Skills Mvc (1 year), Asp.Net (2 years), Sql (2 years), Jquery (2 years), Web Services (1 year) Additional Information Interpersonal Skills:  ? Self-Motivated.  ? Good team player.  ? Helping nature.