SOFTWARE CONSULTANT <span class="hl">SOFTWARE</span> CONSULTANT SOFTWARE CONSULTANT - TQS INTEGRATION LLC Raleigh, NC Motivated developer interested in pursuing a career in business intelligence and other areas of data analytics. Work Experience SOFTWARE CONSULTANT TQS INTEGRATION LLC April 2019 to Present • Create thorough documentation for validated production systems for GMP in the pharmaceutical industry  • Installed OSISoft related software on for production environments for companies interested in leveraging PI for their validated systems.  • Travel to various regions within the North Carolina area for installing PI and maintaining Tag lists  • Utilize MS Excel (PI Builder) to updated master tag lists, creating PI tags, and maintaining tags for a validated PI System  • Familiar with NLB (Network Load Blancing) and MS Windows Clustering concepts being utilized in a PI core installation  • Underwent rigorous PI training for 4 weeks as a new level 1 engineer SOFTWARE ENGINEER/ ANALYST FINAL PLACEMENT July 2018 to Present • Distribute daily incident reports to leading executives and other line of business leads during open enrollment.  • Innovated a new form of communication for stakeholders by creating monthly peak season newsletters.  • Interview and gather requirements from stakeholders.  • Developed a web form leveraging SharePoint and Nintex for SLOs (Service Level Owners) and LOB (Lind of Business) leads. Sent out notifications to users and approvers utilizing Nintex workflow.  • Extract data on a weekly basis from the HAD database to create weekly analytical reports on 1/1 readiness. Also, send out the reports to Peak Season LOB leads.  • Manage the team mailbox to efficiently resolve inquiries, and assist individuals in regards to day to day peak season services TDP SOFTWARE DEVELOPER FINAL PLACEMENT January 2018 to July 2018 Created a standardized documentation which outlined how update sets should be pushed to a ServiceNow test, stage, and production  environment across all teams.  • Produced SSIS packages that transferred information from specific tables in order to update another database.  • Fixed front end defects related to information not populating from certaDecembers and other UI defects.  • Made updates to intake, demand, and project form by adding changes to the JavaScript. TDP SOFTWARE DEVELOPER FINAL PLACEMENT June 2017 to December 2017 • Developed Email APIs and services for backend applications utilizing Java and SQL server & MySQL databases  • Worked with ETL tools such as SSIS to extract and manipulate provider data into a database.  • Created and wrote policies to AWS S3 buckets leveraging terraform scripts.  • Created HTML mock pages with front-end developers to assist in quicken the development process  • Developed an authentication and authorization service leveraging AWS Cognito as a user credential storage and verification method for our application GSU CAPSTONE STUDENT GEORGIA PACIFIC August 2016 to November 2016 Communicated with end users in regards to transitioning from a paper based method of auditing machines to an electronic form via  SharePoint  • Interviewed and gathered requirements from stakeholders at GP and outside of GP Atlanta  • Translated and implemented business requirements into electronic solutions through SharePoint and Nintex  • Created weekly MS project plans for development and planning for electronic Bag house forms  • Utilized Microsoft SharePoint2013 Nintex Form building to create workflows and electronic forms for GP Antioch Building Product  facility INTERN JVION June 2016 to August 2016 Collaborated with data analytics team to further develop data integration and expansion of the current healthcare database  • Facilitated in the creation of the market segmentation plan and database on the current healthcare market  • Gathered data on various health care payment programs for hospitals to determine penalty costs and readmission rates Education B.B.A GEORGIA STATE UNIVERSITY May 2017 Skills Kronos, Compliance, Help Desk