Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer Spring Hill, TN Experienced Entry level Software Developer adept in all stages of software development looking to join a new software development team. Knowledgeable in user interface, testing, and debugging processes. Bringing forth expertise in design, installation, testing and maintenance of software programs. Equipped with a diverse and promising skill-set. Proficient in an assortment of technologies, including Java, C#, C/C++, Python, and Git. Able to effectively self-manage during independent projects, as well as collaborate in a team setting. Work Experience Software Developer Apex - Spring Hill, TN February 2019 to June 2019 • Worked as a productive and positive team member with management and customers to understand features and solutions requested.  • Effectively integrated software changes and alterations based on specific design requirements using the C/C++ language.  • Successfully identified, diagnosed, and fixed software issues, reported by senior software developers and clients to help increase overall user experience.  • Analyzed, delivered, and reported updated software changes and solutions to the development team and clients.  • Developed and delivered a robust prototype software program using Python, wxPython, and VisPy to senior executives to assess rapid development options.   • Quickly became familiar with the standards, technologies, and software used by the company such as Qt 5.11, GitLab, and company user site. Administrative Officer U.S. Marine Corps - Camp Pendleton, CA September 2009 to February 2012 • Coordinated and reviewed daily, monthly, and yearly office duties and responsibilities.  • Learned new procedures and policies, and integrated them effectively with existing standards.  • Supervised and assisted office staff in the completion of routine, non-routine, and advanced tasks.  • Provided and maintained professional communication and interpersonal skills while administrating services to different departments and customers  • Created and presented weekly command briefings.  • Observed and enforced all protocols and regulations when handling private and sensitive information. Education Bachelor's in Computer Science University of California-Irvine - Irvine, CA December 2018 Associate in Mathematics and Science MiraCosta College - Oceanside, CA June 2016 Skills Git/GitLab, MySQL, C/C++, Java, Python, wxPython, Qt, Agile Scrum, C#, Pandas, Microsoft Word, Excel, PowerPoint, VisPy, Visual Studio Community 2017, Visual Studio Code, CI/CD, Windows 10, Linux, IntelliJ, CLion Military Service Branch: United States Marine Corps Service Country: United States Rank: Corporal July 2008 to February 2012