Java Developer Java <span class="hl">Developer</span> Developer Exton, PA ? 4 years of IT experience in the areas of User-interface, web portal development and Java Development experience.  ? Experience in SDLC( Software Development Life Cycle) that includes requirement Analysis, Design, Coding, Testing, Implementation, Maintenance with agile methodology.  ? Experience in design and development of web-based applications using Java, JDBC, SQL, Oracle, MongoDB, Java-API, Spring.  ? Experience in Client side Technologies like such as HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, AJAX, ExtJS.  ? Experience in database design and writing complex queries using SQL Server and MySQL.  ? Experience with the ORM tool Hibernate involving Mappings, Transaction Management, HQL (Hibernate Query Language).  ? Knowledge in JavaFx, Jasper Reports, JDBC, JQuery, Node.js and ExtJS 5.  ? Designed and developed multiple JSF pages  ? Experience in writing services using RESTFul web services.  ? Used Open Source frameworks like Eclipse, Spring Tool Suite.  ? Experience with version control system like SVN, Git.  ? Experience installing and developing on ELK using messaging-broker RabbitMQ.  ? Experience in creating test cases using JUnit.  ? Strong debugging and troubleshooting skills.  ? Excellent team player and ability to perform well under pressure.    PS - I dont require any kind of sponsorship. I can work for any Employer. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java Developer Independence Blue Cross, Greater - Philadelphia, PA June 2018 to February 2019 Experienced working in the Insurance Domain.  ? Was part of an Agile Scrum team.  ? Implemented new requirements across various projects, which included  ? Registration for members to handle different line of business  ? Member Portal to add new benefits-display for a particular group of users to provide a customised experience  Used technologies - Hibernate, SpringMVC framework, Java, SQL, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JUnit.  ? Fixed and handled tickets raised by the users with Visual studio team services(VSTS).  ? Wrote Services using RestFul web services.  ? Implemented batch jobs to read files from vendors, format the data and insert the relevant data to databases.  ? Wrote queries for tuition benefits section for the portal, which would appear only for few users with definite criteria, which involved writing complex multi-table joins and conditional queries in database.  Used Databases - SQL, Oracle  ? Worked on increasing performance of services and database queries when necessary.  ? Used SoapUI and Postman for testing the services.  ? Used Maven for building and deploying the application in web servers.  ? Deployed application on JBoss, Apache Tomcat. Software Engineer Comcast - Downingtown, PA January 2016 to October 2016 Designed and developed multiple JSF pages, with AJAX abilities to display the Jenkins data using PrimeFaces. Used CSS and JavaScript to improve the look and feel.  ? Created J2EE components from Mongojack api to perform complex queries in MongoDB database and persist CRUD functions.  ? Used JBoss AS 7.1 to deploy the application and configured standalone.xml to use Keycloak for authentication.  ? Involved in design, development and support of the application using agile methodologies (SCRUM) using Rally.  ? Created Junit tests to check the functionalities of java classes.  ? Experience in designing, scoping, implementing and optimizing the data using Elasticsearch, Logstash, Kibana (ELK stack).  ? Experience in using GIT. UI/Java Developer Tata Consultancy Services - IN March 2013 to June 2015 Worked in a team, Involved in developing the UI, layout and front-end programming (HTML) for web application.  ? Involved in design discussions and user experience sessions to provide input on the layout  ? Designed the front-end applications, user interactive (UI) web pages using web technologies like HTML, XHTML, and CSS.  ? Improved user experience by designing and creating new web components and features Involved in complete SDLC - Requirement Analysis, Development, System and Integration Testing.  ? Followed MVC Structure to develop Application.  ? Handling cross browser/platform compatibility issues (IE, Firefox, and Safari).  ? Development of Java interfaces & Configuration Management of the source code.  ? Followed DAO design pattern to access the data from database.  ? Developed Client screens in JavaFx (FXML) using scene builder tool.  ? Used Maven as a build tool for the project.  ? Consumed web services using REST Full.  ? Developed DAO layer to handle the database access using Spring and Hibernate (DAO design pattern).  ? Analyzing data and conducting compatibility and quality assurance testing.  ? Developing new functionalities, both back-end and front-end.  ? Generated Reports using Jasper Reports.  ? Coordinated with the Test Teams and on site Teams.  ? Worked with standard ExtJs widgets such as grids, trees, forms, layouts and other standard widgets/components.  ? Analyzed and debugged production issues in web applications, implemented fixes and conducted handover sessions to provide system setting, source code review and configuration.  ? Fixed bugs and provided support services for the application. Education Bachelors of Engineering in Electrical & Communications in Electrical & Communications Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University June 2012 Skills ECLIPSE (4 years), JAVA, SPRING (4 years), JSF, JSP, Web Services (4 years), SQL (3 years), Mongo db (2 years), Spring framework (4 years) Additional Information Technical Proficiencies    ? Technologies - C, Java, HTML, CSS, HTML 5, XHTML, XML, JavaScript, AJAX, JSP, ExtJs.  ? Database - ORACLE, MYSQL, SQL SERVER, MongoDB, JDBC, ElasticSearch, node.js  ? Web Services - RESTFul  ? Tools - Eclipse, STS, NetBeans, Jenkins/Hudson, JUnit, Git, GitHub, PuTTY, WinSCP  ? Frameworks - Spring MVC, ExtJs, JSF