Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer - Interactive Health Libertyville, IL Work Experience Software Developer Interactive Health - Schaumburg, IL December 2017 to Present Build REST API with .Net Core 2.0, Nswag and Oauth 2.0  Responsible for setup and configuration of lower level azure environment  ? Create and maintain a new branch to support De-Identification project    Created a Configurations (JSON) Editor  ? Allow developers to Add/Edit/Delete configurations  ? Allow developers to build configurations from scratch  ? Built the application using .Net Core, Angular, Node.    Software Support  ? Diagnose issues, fix bugs/perform hotfixes, and deploy to production  ? Add/Update features to current applications    Assist in management and maintenance of source control repository and continuous integration environment - Azure DevOps    Added Google Analytics tracking code to Member portal Software Developer Associate Interactive Health - Schaumburg, IL August 2015 to December 2017 Helped develop and maintained enterprise software consisting of the following applications:    Member portal  ? Contribute in a complete overhaul of the client member portal  ? English/Spanish multi-language support  ? Add member PDF packet generation  Content management system  ? Upload assets like PDF, images, text documents, etc.  ? Demonstrate filters associated with content  Content filtering  ? Create filter tree UI using Fancytree, Front end validation, and Tree operations  ? Create custom filter tool  ? Implement content filtering based on filter tree  Enterprise shared services  ? Create web services to pull PDFs from database  ? Enhance and maintain services to pull Member and Client data  PDF Generation  ? Spearhead multiple PDF generation projects involving automation of tasks such as building custom pages, overlaying business approved templates, and generating results packet for client members using a third-party library (DynamicPdf) Intern Interactive Health - Schaumburg, IL May 2015 to August 2015 Consolidated all text throughout the website into a resource file to support multiple languages    Enhanced and maintained Interactive Health's client facing website following patterns and code standards set by Senior Developers using Visual Studio 2015-2017 Education A.A.S in NET programming College of Lake County - Grayslake, IL August 2012 to May 2015 Skills .net (3 years), .net 4.5 (3 years), Api (3 years), Bootstrap (3 years), database (3 years), Front end (3 years), Front-end (3 years), Javascript (3 years), Jquery (3 years), Microsoft team foundation server (3 years), business requirements (3 years)