Game Developer Game <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Engineer - SQLite Phoenix, AZ Work Experience Game Developer Independent - Phoenix, AZ May 2019 to Present C#: Project was completed in C#.  ? SQLite: Database was maintained in SQLite.  ? Design: Ability to design mobile game Ammoth, from conceptual to actual development.  ? Unity: Gained valuable knowledge about Mono Framework, tilemaps, construction in both 2D and 3D, and the concept of components.  ? Animation: Created animation from spritesheets to create transitions states between.  ? Logic and Programming: Project was independently programmed and maintained, from creating state  machines, classes, functions, to maintaining database. Full-Stack Software Developer Intern REPAY - Tempe, AZ June 2018 to August 2018 Python: Main source code developed in Python and was the majority of my work. This included Creating classes, functions, test cases, etc  ? C#: Deprecated code maintained, creating test cases for the small team that was developing and maintaining the code.  ? React: User interface was updated based off the back-end changes developed in Python, created 2 business rule  pages and appended code to source to fit project needs.  ? Data Obfuscation: Back-end obtains data from Postgres database and project task is to obfuscate data based on set of business rules to meet customer business request that are maintained in database.  ? Postgres: Maintained and tested local database in Postgres.  ? RedShift: Setup, schema design and management of Amazon Redshift.  ? Amazon Web Service (AWS): Services used include EC2, S3, RDS, ElasticSearch, Kibana that were used.  ? Docker: Docker used for daily localization of the project for testing and development. Software Engineer/ Researcher Bair Group Real Estate - Phoenix, AZ August 2011 to November 2014 Automation: Developed a strategy for an automation program in a competitive market for real estate.  ? Research: Investigate how the current competitors grabbed houses, was able to create a strategic direction for the real estate to move forward with.  ? Parser: Created a web parser that read data on a page and based on real estate agents needs  ? Autoclicker: Program would tell based on parser where to click on links to reserve housing for further research.  ? Produced Results: House retention went from 30 to 90 percent. Education Master of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science Arizona State University - Tempe, AZ January 2017 to December 2019 Bachelor of Arts in Psychology in Psychology Northern Arizona State University - Flagstaff, AZ January 2012 to December 2016 Skills Api, C#, C++, Design patterns, Docker, Html, Javascript, Python, Postgres, Sql, Rest, Java Links https://davidsoftwareengineering.wordpress.com http://www.davidcmccracken.com https://github.com/davidmccracken Additional Information Programming Skills  • Languages: C#, Python, Javascript, C++, SQL, Java, HTML.  • Technologies: AWS, React, Ansible, Postgres, Design Patterns, Test-driven, Microservices, REST API, Docker,  Kubernetes