Java Developer Java <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - Marathon Petroleum Corporation Findlay, OH • Software Developer with around 5 years of strong IT experience in development and implementation of enterprise applications using JAVA, J2EE technologies for analysis, design development, re-engineering, maintenance,  Installation, implementation and testing on various platforms.  • Actively involved in Requirements gathering from clients/business analysts, Requirement Analysis,  Low level and High-level Design, Coding, Code Reviews, Unit and Integration Testing.  • Understanding Functional and Technical Requirement Specification of the customer's need for the  Product.  • Thorough in J2EE technologies like spring, Hibernate, Web Services, Design Patterns, SOA, SOAP, MVC, EJB, JMS, JSP and Servlets.  • Have worked on application servers like WebSphere, Tomcat  • Strong in databases like Oracle, SQL Server, MySQL.  • Expertise in JQuery, HTML, JavaScript & CSS to develop valid code and table-free sites.  • Experience in Web services using REST FUL API.  • Strong knowledge in Spring Framework using IOC/ AOP, Spring Transaction support (Declarative/ Programmatic), Hibernate in spring.  • Experience in developing MVC, OOPS, J2EE Design Patterns and Java Sever Side Programming using development tools like Eclipse, Toad.  • Good knowledge in log4J implementation to persist the data into logs files.  • Worked with development tools like TOAD, Eclipse, IntelliJ IDEA  • Experience in various J2EE Frameworks like Maven.  • Used testing framework like JUnit  • Strong experience on Waterfall SDLC.  • Proficient in Java Multi-Threading, Socket programming, Swing programming.  • Self-motivated and able to work in challenging environment. A team player with good communication and interpersonal skill.  • Ability to learn and adapt quickly to new environments and emerging new technologies.  • Knowledge of Delphi Programming Work Experience Java Developer Marathon Petroleum Corporation - Findlay, OH January 2018 to Present Responsibilities:    • Effectively interacted with team members and business users for requirements gathering.  • Understanding functional specifications and documenting technical design documents.  • Implemented REST Web services to retrieve data from client side.  • Implemented major concepts of Core Java, J2EE, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, MVC, Spring Framework, Hibernate and Java Beans.  • Used Spring MVC to decouple business logic and view components.  • Involved in the integration of spring for implementing Dependency Injection (DI/IOC).  • Implemented DAO pattern to fetch data from database using Hibernate in order to carry out various database operations and also avoid redundant database access statements.  • Used Maven scripts for building and deploying the application in web server, using Log4j for logging.  • Used the Eclipse as ID, configured and deployed the application onto WebSphere application server using Maven build scripts to automate the build and deployment process.  • Writing in SQL stored procedures, Functions, Triggers in relational databases: Oracle SQL and MYSQL.  • Executed various testing efforts as per the specifications and test cases including Unit testing,  JUnit testing and involved in writing JUnit test cases.  • Created new tables, PL/SQL to write stored procedures, functions, views, indexes and constraints, triggers and required SQL tuning to reduce the response time in the application.  • Used Github for version control to track and maintain the different version of the application.  • Work with Business Analyst, Product Manager, Project Manager to ensure solutions meet product requirements.  • Involved in analyzing and implementation of CR(Change Request).  • Involved in defect fixing/debugging phase. Provided production support to the end users and performance tuning.    Environment: Core Java, JDK 1.7, spring 3.5, HTML, JavaScript, Ajax, JQuery, Bootstrap, CSS, MySQL, SQL, NetBeans, Maven, SVN, JDBC Software Engineer Midas Technologies - Kathmandu, NP September 2014 to September 2017 Responsibilities:  • Involved in all phases of the project from analysis and requirement phase to delivering the project.  • Implemented major concepts of Core Java, J2EE, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, MVC, Spring Framework, Hibernate, Java Beans, and XML.  • Designed front-end presentation logic using JSP, CSS3, and Strut tags. Implemented client-side validations using JavaScript. Developed various generic JavaScript functions for validations.  • Developed the functionalities using Agile Methodology.  • Developed Business objects using POJOs and data access layer using Hibernate framework.  • Used Apache Service Engine for creating and deploying Web Service clients using SOAP.  • Achieved Dependency injection by creating Spring services, Spring controllers, and DAOs so as to wire objects of business classes.  • Implemented DAO pattern to fetch data from database using Hibernate in order to carry out various database operations and also avoid redundant database access statements  • Involved in configuring XML mapping files and POJO objects.  • Used Hibernate Transaction Management, Spring/Hibernate Batch Transactions, and Hibernate cache concepts.  • Retrieved information from the Oracle database using Spring-Hibernate.  • Developed UI screens using JSP, JavaScript, and AJAX.  • Used AJAX extensively to implement front end /user interface features in the application.  • Implemented REST Web services to retrieve data from client side.  • Used Multi-threading and caching to improve the user experience.  • Unit testing through JUnit.  • Created new tables, PL/SQL stored procedures, functions, views, indexes and constraints, triggers and required SQL tuning to reduce the response time in the application.  • Focused on Test Driven Development; thereby creating detailed JUnit tests for every single piece of functionality before actually writing the functionality.  • Resolved bugs/defects in the application by coordinated with team members of the project to assure a positive outcome.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring framework, Spring MVC, Hibernate, JUnit, JSP, CSS3, Servlets, JDBC, AJAX, Web services, REST, SOAP, XML, JQuery, JavaScript, Oracle, Web Sphere, SQL, Windows. Education Bachelors in Information Technology in Information Technology Kantipur City College - Kathmandu, NP Skills Ajax (4 years), Java (4 years), JDBC (4 years), JSP (4 years), Oracle (4 years), Hibernate, J2Ee, Angularjs, JEE, Java J2Ee, Spring, MVC, Javascript, Core Java, Angular Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Java Technologies Java, Spring, Hibernate, Web Services Servlets, JSP, JSTL, JMS, Java Beans  Application Servers WebSphere, Apache Tomcat  RDBMS/Tools JDBC, Oracle, MySQL, SQL Server, TOAD  UI Technologies Java Script, HTML, CSS, Java Swing, AJAX  Version Control GitHub, SVN  IDE & Tools Eclipse, IntelliJ IDEA, Netbeans, Borland Delphi 5  Programming language C, C++, C#, .Net, Java, Delphi  Operating System Windows, Unix, Linux