Associate Engineer Associate Engineer Experienced and Passionate Fullstack Developer San Jose, CA ? 3+ years of work experience as a So ware Engineer.  ? Well versed in web development, Cross pla orm scrip ng, SQL, and database management.  ? Passionately developed problem-solving enterprise applica ons in a team and as a result delivered real- me applica ons. Work Experience Associate Engineer Cotiviti Healthcare, Connecticut - Connecticut September 2017 to Present Clinical Chart Validation UI Platform ------------------------ May 2019 - currently    (JavaScript, Angular.JS, Node.JS, Bootstrap, Material Angular, C#, ASP.Net Core 2.2, Git Bash)  ? Worked closely with Clinical Chart Valida on commi ee to understand their backend and revenue genera on.  ? Followed SAFe agile prac ce in the development of the project.  ? Lead the development of res ul services using ASP.Net core 2.2 C#, created build pipeline for deployment to Dev, QC and Prod  ? Performed LDAP query with Novell.LDAP, server based error logging and cache management with MemoryCache in ASP.Net core.  ? Lead the development of SQL backend connec on from ASP.Net core.  ? Designed and developed a web applica on using Angular template of ASP.Net core C#. Used material, bootstrap, typescript  ? Build query builder using JQuery builder and bootstrap. Developed complex SQL query using Query builder and executed on mul ple SQL server based on Commi ee member data source selec on from the UI.  ? Worked ac vely in a team to develop standard SQL views and stored procedures that read and write to different clients.    Machine Learning UI Platform --------------------------------------------Jan 2019 - May 2019  (JavaScript, Angular.JS, Mongo DB, Express.JS, Node.JS Bootstrap, Material Angular, Spring Boot, Java, GitLab, Postman, Git Bash)  ? Worked closely with Data Engineer and Data Scien st to make their work easier by reducing manual steps and automa ng steps  through web applica on  ? Ac vely worked on wire framing feature requirement and created storyboard for further grooming.  ? Developed web applica on from scratch for maintaining machine learning features in UI using Angular7.0.  ? Used Gitlab for source control. Used web IDE and Git bash for all gitlab ac vity.  ? Developed automation tool through UI for running spark submit and running scores on hadoop clusters.  ? Followed MEAN stack for the web development  ? Used Java and Spring Boot to develop API which communicates to Gitlab (Git4j) for automa on of Data Scien st tools and environment.  ? Code for unit test in Angular.js.    Concept Library (CMS) --------------------------------------------September 2019 - Jan 2019  JavaScript, Knockout.JS, Durandal, Required.JS, SQL, Bootstrap, Kendo, C#, AWS, TFS online, CodeDeploy, Amazon S3, DevOps)  ? Gathered business requirements from business analysts and delivered me sensi ve user stories.  ? Par cipated with team in Modern Agile user story grooming sessions, sprint planning, sprint release and deployment.  ? Developed enterprise applica ons for auditors using JavaScript, Kendo, Knockout.JS, Required.JS, Durandal, JSON, XML, SQL.  ? Developed T-SQL queries to support high volume and mul -user environment using T-SQL triggers, stored procedures, index  design and complex data structure design.  ? Designed and documented new applica on proposed changes using UML, Flowcharts, Layout and Mock ups in MS Visio also presented it to So ware Architects.  ? Worked on C# backend which communicates with Microsoft Active Directory through LDAP queries  ? Perform unit tes ng on every new release, run SQL tests using SQL execute and troubleshooted with SQL Profiler.  ? Worked in successfully building DevOps pipeline using TFS online, AWS, CodeDeploy, Amazon S3 Bucket, and EC2 instances.  ? Followed Veracode security best prac ce in coding. Software Developer / Analyst Virtua Solution LTD February 2012 to December 2014 Java, ASP.Net, C#, PHP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, SQL, Selenium, WAMP, LAMP, Window Server, Filezilla, CPanel)  ? Developed E-Commerce websites with all types of form valida on, wish list, shopping cart, one stop checkout system, payment  API integra on module in mul ple languages PHP, ASP.Net, C#.  ? Developed client projects in full SDLC model and deployed projects mely.  ? Designed so ware designs such as DFD, UML, ER Diagrams, Prototype, Storyboard and wireframe of system using MS Visio.  ? Performed CRUD opera ons using JQuery, AJAX, Web API, and JavaScript.  ? Predicted and recommended special orders by following Content and Collabora ve Based Filtering using SQL CTE.  ? Performed database development and data normaliza on for maintaining real onal model. Education Master of Science in Computer Engineering San Jose State University 2015 to 2017 Post-Graduation Diploma in Computer Application in Computer Application Sardar Patel University 2013 to 2014 Bachelors of Computer Application in Computer Application Dharmsinh Desai University 2010 to 2013 Skills Amazon web services, C#, Git, Html, Javascript Additional Information Smart Home Automation System --------------------------------San Jose State University  ? Java, J2EE, HTML, PHP, XML, Angular.JS, Spring MVC, MongoDB, JSON, RESTful web services)  ? Presented, designed and developed CRUD opera ons on in Home automa on applica on which automates lights, fan and AC.    Big Data Analytics on Logistics Data ----------------------------San Jose State University  ? R Language, Tableau, JavaScript, HTML, R markdown)  ? Developed automated data visualiza on dashboard in Tableau on logis cs data received by performing ETL opera ons.    Visual Search Shopping Recommender (VISER) ------------San Jose State University  (Android, Java, Camera API, Google Maps API, Node.JS, Python, Pandas, Jupyter Notebook, Amazon EC2)  ? Lead, designed, developed and demo mobile applica on which captures image and recommend exact product in nearby  loca on, price range wise and brand wise.  ? Designed and developed own algorithm for improved product recommenda on in backend and hosted res ul service.