Android Developer Android <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Engineer with a diverse IT background, building scalable solutions for today’s industry. Atlanta, GA I am a Software Engineer with 6+ years of experience in the IT field. After graduating Cum Laude with a Bachelor's Degree in Computer Science, I began my IT career as a Web Developer, building and designing a website for a professional dancer. Years later, I started working as a Software QA Engineer at Tech Mahindra, working effectively with my virtual integrated process team in software testing and developing numerous solutions for AT&T. A career move led me to Credera, where I honed my Android development skills and helped implement the latest features in Angie's List's Android application, which is now available in the Google Play Store. When my project at Credera ended, I returned to web development. I am a self-driven individual, refusing to let situations and limitations keep me down. As a fast learner, adept problem solver, and team leader, I will certainly be an asset to any organization. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Android Developer Credera - Dallas, TX October 2017 to January 2018 Responsible for implementing the Enhanced Offers feature in Angie’s List’s Android application. Implemented a RecyclerView to display a list of special deals, integrating a scrollview feature on the search results screen to load more featured deals whenever the user reaches the end of the existing list. Worked with the MVVM (Model-View-ViewModel) software architecture pattern for the UI. Worked with Kotlin and third-party libraries (which includes Retrofit, RxJava, and Gson) to implement a gateway to given API endpoints. Worked with the company's Redux libraries and AutoValue to store and retrieve the state of the data provided by the server and the UI/screen state provided by the application itself. Assisted in the redemption flow and purchase history screen, cleaning up the code to improve the look of the layouts and meet user satisfaction. Used GitHub for version control, tracking changes to the code and creating pull requests for new features and bug fixes. Worked with CircleCI, pushing frequent changes to the repository. Added analytics metrics to several sections of the application using Segment track calls. Worked under a SCRUM-based Agile Methodology, with 2 week sprints and daily meetings with team to discuss progress of given tasks and any issues that needed to be addressed. Software QA Engineer Tech Mahindra - Alpharetta, GA December 2013 to February 2017 Key member of AT&T’s regression testing team; responsible for fluid execution of test scenarios for both web and mobile applications. Worked with the HP Quality Center tool for test management, project tracking, and defect management. Worked with on- and off-site QA teams in brainstorming and implementing solutions to assigned tasks and issues. Identified bugs and ensured failed test cases are resolved by initiating immediate actions, which included reporting and logging in defects and communicating with QA and external teams (RCA Team, Data Team, Development Team, etc.) for pinpointing and retesting given issues. Involved in maintaining and updating defect database, ensuring issues are entered correctly. Provided assistance in testing new features before their initial release to the public. Mentored new recruits to ensure they are prepared with the appropriate set of testing skills and knowledge for future releases. Worked under a SCRUM-based Agile Methodology, working in 4-week sprints and attending daily meetings with QA team to discuss progress of given tasks and any issues encountered. Education Bachelor's in Computer Science Kennesaw State University - Forest Park, GA August 2005 to December 2010 Skills Microsoft Office (3 years), QA (3 years), Android Development (Less than 1 year), HTML (3 years), CSS (3 years), Bootstrap (2 years), Responsive Web Design (2 years), Javascript (2 years), Java (Less than 1 year), Kotlin (Less than 1 year), Android Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/bryan-d-gaynor Awards Dean's List for 7 Semesters at KSU 2010-12 Achieved a 3.5 GPA for 7 out of the 10 semesters at Kennesaw State University. First Place in Digital Gaming International Conference 2009 Awarded first place in the Digital Gaming International Conference for the development of the game titled "Coin Trap" at Kennesaw State University. Game was developed using GML and GameMaker.