Software Engineer <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Software Engineer - HCL Technologies Ltd IT professional with over 3.3 years of experience specialized in UI development. My best  effective support to provide a valuable contribution to an organization team, and that will make me a  dedicated one to the concern I am working to and will be a part of the organizations growth as well as  personal growth. Work Experience Software Engineer HCL Technologies Ltd August 2018 to Present Company Profile: HCL Technologies Limited (Hindustan Computers limited) focuses on a  software services business.    Responsibilities:  • Dealt with 5 projects such as Sensgear and Sensformer, Posterity, CovaCare, SourceSelect, Six  Screens based on HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, jQuery, React.js, Angular 2 and 4.  • Requirement gathering, preparing User requirements and design documents for the proposed projects which I dealt with.  • Dealt with support issues and fixing bugs while working with the projects. Testing -  system and user acceptance testing.  • Creative web designer with 3years of work experience in designing the website as per  current market trend.    Project Details:  Project #1  Project Name Sensformer and Sensgear Developer Siemens - Delhi, DELHI, IN May 2018 to August 2018 Role Developer  Team size 25  Duration 3 months  Work Location Siemens - Delhi, Gurugram  Platform HTML5, CSS3, Angular 6, Angular material,  PrimeNG, Bootstrap  Description Sensformer and Sensgear are the 2 different  projects with almost same UI design. It gets the data from transformer and displays it in our UI.  My core responsibility was to create the responsive and cross browser compatible UI and according to the client requirement.  Responsibilities • Involving in the functional discussion and understanding the requirements  • Developed responsive-HTML Template  • Fix the bugs after integration  • Designing of various user interfaces according to the required devices using Bootstrap and Angular  Material as per the requirements for web-responsive  • Used Node.JS mechanism for application server- side development and for routing of application as  requirements.  • Used GitHub for repository    Project #2  Project Name Posterity Software Engineer Compassites Software Solutions Pvt Ltd January 2016 to August 2018 Company Profile: Compassites focuses on serving enterprises in technologies like  Mobility, Data Analytics, Cloud and Portals. Developer Word Press February 2017 to May 2018 Team size 2  Duration 15 months  Platform HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, Word Press  Description Posterity is a public website designed for training domain.  Purpose of Posterity is to provide the information on accessible training location .Posterity mainly serves for the one who are interested in getting trained to join Army  / Navy. My core responsibility was to create responsive and cross browser compatible with complete end-end  management of a new website.  Responsibilities • Involving in the functional discussion and understanding the requirements  • Developed responsive-HTML Template  • Fix the bugs after integration  • Designing of various user interfaces according to the required devices using Bootstrap as per the  requirements for web-responsive    Project #3 Developer Cova Care 2010 to 2010 Duration 12 months  Platform HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, Bootstrap  Description Cova Care is a HealthCare project. End user of the website is for both Doctors and Patients. Cova  Care supports the doctors by booking  appointments for his /her patients. The patients  can also upload health documents like  prescription. Group of doctors were monitored by a senior doctor who acts as an admin.  Responsibilities • Involving in the functional discussion and understanding the requirements  • Used JQuery for creating and developing  application as per requirements  • Developed responsive-HTML Template  • Fix the bugs after integration  • Designing of various user interfaces according to the required devices using Bootstrap as per the  requirements for web-responsive    Project #4  Project Name Source Select  Role Developer  Team size 15  Duration 2 months  Platform HTML5, Bulma, React JS  Description Source Select is an E-commerce project. This web  application supports business transaction between business and customer. Internal business  process such as sales, purchase, warehouse,  inventory and accounting were part of this  application. My responsibility was to create  responsive design according to the client  requirement.  Responsibilities • Involving in the functional discussion and understanding the requirements  • Developed responsive-HTML Template  • Fix the bugs after integration  • Designing of various user interfaces according to the required devices using Bulma as per the  requirements for web-responsive  • Used Node.JS mechanism for application server- side development and for routing of application as  requirements.  • Used GitHub for repository    Project #5 Developer Six Screens 2010 to 2010 Duration 3 months  Platform HTML5, Materialized UI, Angular 2, D3.js  Description Six Screen is an E-commerce project. This web  application is used for maintaining details of  Toyota cars across the world. And taking care of each customer reviews etc. My responsibility was to create responsive design according to the client  requirement.  Responsibilities • Involving in the functional discussion and understanding the requirements  • Developed responsive-HTML Template  • Fix the bugs after integration  • Designing of various user interfaces according to the required devices using materialized UI as per the  requirements for web-responsive  • Used Node.JS mechanism for application server- side development and for routing of application as  requirements.  • Used GitHub for repository Education Diploma in Computer Science and Engineering MEI Polytechnic May 2015 SSLC Jindal Public School May 2012 diploma in All Karnataka Science Aptitude Test Mamatha English School 2012 Government of India Kayaka Education Institution - Bangalore, KARNATAKA, IN 2010 Additional Information Skill Summary:  • Have 6 months internship + 3.3 years of experience as Software Developer in HTML5,  CSS3, Bootstrap, Materialize CSS, Material UI, JavaScript, JQuery, Bulma, Angular  Material, PrimeNG. And I have good knowledge on Design Patterns (Singleton, Observer),  Angular 2, 4, Google charts, and I have basic knowledge on D3 js, Express js, mongo dB,  React js.  • Experience in managing Project Management tool like Bit bucket and JIRA.  • 2 .6 years of experience in using Versioning control tool GIT for managing project codes.  • Experience in designing dynamic and static pages.  • Cross Browser Compatibility -> User Interface Design -> Unit & Integration Testing ->  Responsive Web Design -> Agile Development (Scrum).  • Client interfacing skills - good communication skills, problem solving skills and  presentation skills.    Technical Knowledge:    Web technologies HTML5, jade  Scripting Languages JavaScript, JQuery, D3.js, NVD3.js, React.js,  Angular 2, 4, Express.js    Software Tools Adobe Photoshop basics, Chrome Developer  Tools/Firebug, Git, Sublime Text 3, Visual Studio  code  Frameworks Twitter Bootstrap3, CSS3, Materialized CSS,  Bulma, SCSS, Material UI  Operating System Windows, Ubuntu  Project Management Tools Bit bucket and JIRA