Full Stack Software Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Software Developer - Valley Forge Fabrics Fort Lauderdale, FL Work Experience Full Stack Software Developer Valley Forge Fabrics - Fort Lauderdale, FL December 2017 to Present Development of all server-side logic, definition and maintenance of the central database, and ensuring  high performance and responsiveness to requests from the front end. Management of hosting  environment, including database administration and scaling an application to support load changes.    Achievement Highlights:  • Contributed software engineering expertise in complete refactoring of the company flagship website  optimizing the database schema and application queries resulting in large speed increases for database  transactions and page loads.    • Implemented agile methodologies across all suitable branches of technology introducing Sprints, CI/ CD  infrastructure, and retrospectives + postmortems increasing the amount of total user stories delivered.    • Created consumer facing Progressive Web App that consumed various internal REST Apis. The  application utilized various modern web specifications such as Service Workers with offline caching, Web  Bluetooth and Device Discovery, and client side data storage using IndexedDB and Local Storage. Full Stack Software Developer 71 Pounds - Davie, FL June 2016 to December 2017 Development of client-side visuals as well as server-side code and processes.    Achievement Highlights:  • Assisted in creation of database schema, internal services and integrations, and maintaining maximum  code coverage for application test suite.    • Refactored a critical application service that involved aggregating millions of user records twice-daily,  speeding up its execution from 4+ hours to under 10 minutes.    • Provided operations team with inhouse scripts to capture additional revenue streams for users in a fraction of the time. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science Florida Atlantic University - Boca Raton, FL 2011 to 2016 Skills Bash (3 years), CSS (4 years), Databases (4 years), Frameworks (4 years), Git (4 years), Javascript, Nodejs, Node, Jquery, PHP, Ruby (4 years), Mysql (4 years), Devops, Continuous integration, Continuous delivery