Software Engineer <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Software Engineer - Innova Solutions Taiwan ? Experience of GPS and Vehicle Tracking Module.  ? Expertise on Manufacturing and Order management Module ERP  ? Experience and good knowledge in Health Care industry.  ? Experience in create indexes to improve performance of query.  ? Experience in T-SQL (DDL, DML), documentation, coding.  ? Expert in functions, views, triggers, cursors, dictionary, stored procedures etc.  ? Experience in Writing and Tuning T-SQL (DDL, DML, TCL), Stored Procedures to improve the database performance.  ? Experience in Generating Explain Plan for performance of Query, query optimization, table partition.  ? Good knowledge and experience on Materialized view, Ref_cursor, Dynamic query.  ? Experience in dynamic sql,utl_file, bulk collect ,for all of oracle.  ? Good knowledge in oracle hint, oracle profiler.  ? Experience on EDI Inbound and Outbound Operation Work Experience Software Engineer Innova Solutions Taiwan August 2018 to Present PL/SQL Developer Techmill Technologies June 2018 to August 2018 Yusata Infotech Pvt. Ltd November 2017 to March 2018 Projects  Projects 1(  Project Title: - YLOG(portal.ylogapp.com)  Company: - Yusata InfoTech Pvt. Ltd  Duration: - From: Nov-2017 to Mar 2018  Technologies: - Oracle 11g R2  Operating System: - Linux.  Team Size: - 10  Role: - PL/SQL Developer    Project Description:  Ylog supports GPS, using that Administrator can trace all vehicles and drivers at real-time. Vehicle log used to trace vehicle positions. An administrator can easily dispatch trips and can schedule according the drivers. During trips administrator can know the position of Vehicle and Driver both.    Responsibilities:  ? Coordinated a team of 10 people and responsible for this project right from requirements to implementation.  ? Work on Logical and Physical data structure on this project.  ? Analyze user requirements and document the same.  ? Working as an Oracle PL/SQL Developer.  ? Creating Database users and granting roles.  ? Creating indexes based on requirement.  ? Wring script to generate file using UTL file and import file using SQL loaded utility.  ? Programmed Packages, stored procedures, queries, and triggers on Oracle.  ? Plan and supervise the daily activities of the application support  ? Database Query tuning and Implementation.  ? Prepared root cause analysis for problems occurred.    Projects 2  Project Title: - Phase-II  Client: - SIMCO PL/SQL Developer Dubai Trade - Dubai, AE November 2017 to March 2018 Dubai (http://www.dubaitrade.ae)  Duration: - From: Nov-2017 to Mar 2018  Environment: - Oracle 11.2.0.4 Enterprise Edition  Operating System: - Linux (Oracle Linux Server release 6.5) Production.  Team Size: - 15  Role: - PL/SQL Developer    Project Description:  Provides services to manage transportation of cargos across places.  Through this system cargo owners can make request to book a truck to ship cargo's, against this request transporters gives their quotes and when booking is confirmed by cargo owner then ships the cargo to particular place.    Responsibilities:  ? Coordinated a team of 15 people and responsible for this project right from requirements to implementation.  ? Work on Logical and Physical data structure on this project  ? Database Query tuning and Implementation  ? Creating Database users and granting roles.  ? Experience in Writing and Tuning T-SQL (DDL, DML, TCL) Stored Procedures to improve the database performance and availability.  ? Programmed Packages, stored procedures, queries, and triggers on Oracle.    Handling Projects related to  ? Main work on back end like Oracle 10g, and Oracle 11g R1 and R2.  ? Client requirement, Coding, performance & analysis for assessment of Project.  ? Handling the issues and Interact with Client in Mail/ Status Call.  ? Interaction with Project Manager/ Delivery Owner about the Project status and Delivery of the Requirements.  ? Main work on back end like manipulates and access data from database.  ? Handling EDI Inbounds, Outbound process. Database Developer Yusata Infotech Pvt. Ltd February 2015 to March 2018 PLSQL Developer Oracle APPS Technical February 2015 to November 2017 Duration: - From: Feb-2015 to Nov 2017  Technologies: - Oracle 11g R1, Oracle E-Business Suite-12.1.3  Modules: - Inventory, Order management ,XML Publisher, Receivables  Operating System: - Linux.  Team Size: - 10  Role: - Oracle APPS Technical, PLSQL Developer    Project Description:  This project involves Production, Test and Development, Implementation support for Oracle Applications 12.1.3. Oracle Order Management drives the order fulfillment process of any business. The open, workflow based architecture supports automated fulfillment processes without customization. It captures multi-channel demand from sources including EDI, XML.    Responsibilities:  ? Coordinated a team of 10 people and responsible for this project right from requirements to implementation.  ? Work on Logical and Physical data structure on this project.  ? Writing various SQL, PL/SQL scripts for Oracle APPS/EBS.  ? Experience in Reports, interface, conversion and Extension in Oracle Apps.  ? Create or modify Value set, profile and form personalization.  ? Writing various XML reports for generate PDF, Excel, Rtf output.  ? Developing API's like order import, item cost import, service request, service contract, vendor site payment update etc.  ? Generating bar code through oracle report and xml report.  ? Programmed Packages, stored procedures, queries, and triggers on Oracle.  ? Database Query tuning and Implementation.  ? Prepared root cause analysis for problems occurred.  ? Wrote many EDI Inbound and Outbound processes (like 850,810 etc.).  ? Worked on some Reports, interface, conversion and Extension in this project.    Projects 3  Project Title: - Alex Brands Oracle ERP  Client: - Alex  Duration: - From: Feb-2015 to Nov 2017  Technologies: - Oracle 11g R1, Oracle E-Business Suite-12.2.2  Modules: - Inventory, Order management, XML Publisher, Receivables  Operating System: - Linux.  Team Size: - 10  Role: - Oracle APPS Technical, PLSQL Developer.    Project Description:  This project involves Production, Test and Development, Implementation support for Oracle Applications 12.2.2. Oracle Order Management drives the order fulfillment process of any business. The open, workflow based architecture supports automated fulfillment processes without customization. It captures multi-channel demand from sources including EDI, XML.    Responsibilities:  ? Coordinated a team of 10 people and responsible for this project right from requirements to implementation.  ? Writing various SQL, PL/SQL scripts for EBS.  ? Experience in Writing and Tuning T-SQL (DDL, DML and TCL) Stored Procedures to improve the database performance and availability.  ? Writing various XML reports.  ? Experience in the usage of Oracle APIs  ? Experience on EDI Inbound and Outbound process.  ? Programmed Packages, stored procedures, queries, and triggers on Oracle.  ? Did some Reports, interface, conversion and Extension in this project.    Projects 4  Project Title: - FTMS(Freight and Transport Management System): Education BSC Biju Pattnaik College of Sc. And Ed. - Bhubaneshwar, Orissa 2012 Skills Database, Oracle, Oracle 10g, Pl/sql, Sql, Linux, Erp, R2, E-business, Deployment, Engineer, Its, Optimization, Process data, Performance optimization, Integration, Business requirements, Finance, Lending, Cih Additional Information Technical Skills  Languages: - SQL, PL/SQL, SHELL Script.  Database: - Oracle 10g, 11g R1 and R2  ERP: - Oracle E-Business Suite 12.1.3, 12.2.2  OS: - Linux and Windows  Applications: - Toad, SQL Developer, Putty, WinSCP    Techmill Technology Projects    Project Title: - Lending:  Client: - World Bank.  Duration: - From: June 2018 to 14th Aug 2018  Database: - Oracle  Operating System: - Window server.  Team Size: - 8  Role: - Programmer    Project Description:  Converting loan amount and write off amount of projects of different customers into Equity with different criteria and validation (like user role/Principal amount<>0), after approval data will sync to centralized database of World Bank's IFC (International Finance corporation).    Responsibilities:  ? Creating process (procedure and packages to process data to database system).  ? Created process to sync data to centralized Database.  ? Created views/procedures to fetch data to display in screen.    Innova Solutions Taiwan  Project Title: - CIH (Customer Integration Hub):  Client: - Change Healthcare (US)  Duration: - From: Aug 2018 to Till Date  Database: - Oracle  OS: - Windows.  Team Size: - 12  Role: - Database Engineer    Project Description:  It's a US healthcare project, this project is responsible Enroll the Providers (hospitals, medicals), Vendors, Payers (insurance companies) into healthcare system and adding products like ERA, Batch claim, ITS to providers, vendors, Payers. Every product has some attributes which is storing through this enrollment, Adding and validating bank account of providers, Adding products. Generating feed report, Sending data to other system via MV etc.    Responsibilities:  ? Creating process to fetch and insert enrollment information into system  ? Created process to sync data to other systems.  ? Created views/procedures to fetch data to display in screen.  ? Enhancing the procedures for new enhancement and performance optimization.  ? Design new database architectures.  ? Generating different reports from Database for Business requirements.  ? Production Code deployment and production issue fix.