Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer - Guangzhou Sutou Intelligent Electronics Pvt Ltd China, ME Software Developer with expertise of more than 4 years of experience in Web/Windows Application Development. Good understanding of technical aptness governed by the enterprise standards in Software Development Life Cycle. Work Experience Software Developer Guangzhou Sutou Intelligent Electronics Pvt Ltd - Guangzhou, CN April 2018 to Present Teaching Management Tool C#, WPF, comm port, VS2015, Windows Setup Project  • Developed an application to make interaction with the machine. The application is used to provide direct access to web, directories, files and other communicable applications.  • Advanced C#, .Net Framework 4.0 or later, & multithreading.  • Design, Development, testing of new features  • Continual improvement of software development life cycle and quality of the product  • User Interface development and support through analysis, design, coding and testing  CresijOnWeb C#, ASP.NET, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap, CSS, WebSocket, IIS, AJAX, Web Service  • Developed a web-based platform consisting of three applications to operate Company's Multimedia Central Control Machines and IP Camera streams in real time targeting Schools, Universities, Military Department and other institutes.  Server application C#, Socket programming  • Developed a console application as an asynchronous TCP Server to connect, send and receive real time data to and from the machines, process it and send it to the web platform.    Web Platform ASP.NET, C#, SQL server 2014, VS2017, SSMS 2014, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, jQuery, IIS  • Worked to communicate with Server application in real time to retrieve and send data to machines to run live video streams and audio from IP camera, and control its functions like zooming, Fullscreen, volume.  Design business models and schema definitions using sql server.    uphulwani1@gmail.com    +86-13802744187    Guangzhou, Guangdong System Engineer Infosys - Pune, Maharashtra January 2015 to March 2017 Atmos |ASP.NET, C#, MSSQL 2012, VS2013, Team Explorer  ·        Developed and tested several web modules to enhance different functionalities.  ·        Worked extensively on stored procedures and functions in SQL server (RDBMS).    Conagra foods | ASP.NET, C#, SQL Server 2012  ·        Worked as a support engineer to provide instant solution to users for all Plant Applications.  ·        Documented specifications and uses of plant applications to be used by other engineers using UMLs.  Worked on several bugs to enhance the usability of in-house client’s application. Intern Infosys - Mysore, Karnataka January 2015 to June 2015 Attendance Management System | ASP.NET, SQL Server 2012, C#, VS2013  ·        Developed a web-based attendance management system which facilitated faculties in maintaining student records. Worked on functionalities of user authentication, attendance calculation within required timeframe etc. Education Master's in Computer Applications Devi Ahilya University - Indore, Madhya Pradesh July 2012 to May 2015 Bachelor's in Computer Applications Vikram University - Ujjain, Madhya Pradesh July 2009 to May 2012 Skills .net (4 years), Application development (6 years), C# (4 years), Html (7 years), Javascript (5 years), Json (2 years), .net core (4 years), Wcf (2 years), Ajax (4 years), Css (7 years), Mvc (3 years), Sql server (5 years), Pl/sql (6 years), Sql (7 years), Wpf (2 years), Java (1 year), jquery (5 years), Sockets (2 years), Rdbms (5 years), ASP (4 years), WebApi (2 years) Assessments Data Analysis — Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's skill in interpreting and producing graphs, identifying trends, and drawing justifiable conclusions from data. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/ql7lgjcerw4nx-hm Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.