Business Systems Analyst Business Systems Analyst Business Systems Analyst Folsom, CA A proficient Business Analyst / Quality Assurance personnel,  with proven skills in end-end Software Development Lifecycle.  Result oriented consultant with strong organizational skills in a  distributed delivery environment with good knowledge of  Supplier Relationship, Financials and Human Resources  concepts. Excellent understanding of Object Oriented  Programming, Database Management Systems (DBMS) and  Networking concepts. Innovative, fast learner and Self-motivated  quality conscious contributor with solid analytical and writing  skills. Maintain Requirements Traceability Matrix and hands-on  knowledge of defect and incident management systems. Work Experience Business Systems Analyst URMINDSOFT TECHNOLOGIES May 2013 to April 2015 Summary  Executed the role of Business analyst to configure, implement and test inventory management, payables, billing and human  resources application for health, travel and retail clients.  Responsibilities:  • Conduct Fit-Gap Sessions, collect and document user requirements.  • Design and configure custom ERP applications and execute unit test cases to conform to user requirements.  • Document design specifications for custom functionalities and end-user facing reports such as billing invoices and Procure-to-Pay reports.  • Execute unit test cases for configurable functionalities, perform system-to-system integration test and assist end- users with user acceptance testing.  • Document requirements traceability matrix and record test results/defects with appropriate findings.  • Provide production support to deployed application during stabilization phase.  • Act as a liaison between client and development teams.  • Define test metrics and provide weekly status reports to leadership and relevant stakeholders.    PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Software Developer MOBILE DISPLAY UNIT December 2012 to March 2013 Summary  The embedded based SMS Display Unit is a concept of sending message from the mobile phone using GSM as a communication channel. This technology allows the flow of information response and result code to the microcontroller, which further displays the message in the wireless electronic notice board. This will be used in our college to send secured  paperless messages / communications to students and staff members regardless of internet availability, connectivity. Also, the security aspects embedded into the design inhibits unauthorized use.  Responsibilities:  • Lead the objective validation session  • Gathered requirements for the project development from the institution staff  • Created design specifications for the Microcontroller  • Developed code in Embedded C using keil software  • Integration tested the unit successfully  • Demonstrated the unit to ensure the design and outcomes as per the staff expectations and incorporated their  feedback  • Phased rollout of the application per department    CAREER OBJECTIVE  To succeed in an environment of growth and excellence and earn a job which provides me job satisfaction, self-development and help me achieve personal as well as organization goals.    COURSE WORK Education Bachelors of Technology in Technology SKR Engineering College - Chennai, Tamil Nadu 2009 to 2013 HSC State board 2007 to 2009 Information Technology Anna University Skills DBMS, ERP, C++, PYTHON, DATABASE, SQL SERVER, ORACLE, SQL, JAVA, BILLING, INVENTORY, PURCHASING, HUMAN RESOURCES, BENEFITS, PAYABLES, EXCEL, MICROSOFT OFFICE, WORD, RECRUITING, INCIDENT MANAGEMENT