Software Engineer <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Software Engineer - Quadrant Resource LLC Bothell, WA • 3+ years of experience as .Net Developer in software design, analysis, development, testing and implementation of web and client server applications using Microsoft .Net Technologies involving product-based applications.  • Hands on in application development using with C#, ADO.NET, Web Forms in ASP.NET using C# as the code behind language and SQL as the Database data consumer.  • Extensive experience in design and development of applications using.NET Framework.  • Sound knowledge of Object-Oriented Language Principles.  • Experience in working with WCF, Web Services in .Net Framework.  • Experience in MVC with EDM (Entity Data Model).  • Experience in designing and developing Databases in SQL Server which includes the development of functions, stored procedures and triggers using SQL. Work Experience Software Engineer Quadrant Resource LLC January 2019 to Present Project Description: The Project handles four different portfolios related to finance applications. Mainly deals with Dynamics AX, LCS, Finance, corporate strategic & planning applications. Working on Web Application called LCS Build Automation, which is hosted on Virtual machine using local IIS server.    Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed Life Cycle services build automation, which is Single Page Web Application using C#, ASP.NET MVC, and Entity framework.  • Involved in creating Classes and Interfaces using C# in entity Framework, worked in integrating VSTS with VS 2017, Agile framework with information architecture.  • Focused on creating custom filters and user-centric design where the users can easily select options as per their needs.  • Created and executed unit test for above application.  • Worked with Automation runbooks using PowerShell script in Azure Portal.  • Worked with App Registration, creating Key Vault, Automation Accounts and Application Insights.    Environment: C#, ASP.NET MVC, SQL, HTML5, CSS, .NET Framework 4.7., Azure Cloud, PowerShell Script. Application Developer Quadrant Resource LLC March 2018 to December 2018 Project Description: Integration of existing desktop application (CAP) to consume Jarvis Web API with AAD.  Responsibilities:  • Working on Integration of existing desktop application to consume Jarvis Web API with AAD.  • Experience in working with Azure in registering App and accessing APIs using AAD token.  • Worked on integration of existing metro web services endpoint with desktop application.  • Configured and consumed web services using C#, .Net and exposed through http.  • Analyze project data to determine specifications or requirements to prepare and review project deliverables.  • Use of Team Foundation Server (TFS), GIT for updating code on source control, checking in code from local machine; automate build, logging in test cases, bugs and other defect tracking management.  • Use of web services to establish communication between client of different environment using protocols such a HTTP.  • Gained experience on windows Apps, WSDL, Swagger, MSI, Postman, Expert, NuGet packages, TFS, GIT.    Environment: .NET, C#, ASP.NET, ADO.NET, Visual Studio 2015, Jarvis Web APIs, SOAP, JSON, Microsoft AZURE, SQL Server 2017, TFS, GIT, AGILE, Xpert logs. Software Engineer Quadrant Resource LLC June 2017 to February 2018 Project Description: FAST is an Excel Add-in budgeting tool to capture the huge data from multiple department users for finance budgeting, forecast and planning. Users can generate different reports like variance reports and audit reports etc.  Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed VSTO Excel Add-in Desktop and Admin Console Single Page Web Application in ADO.NET/ASP.NET MVC.  • Involved in creating Classes and Interfaces using C# in entity Framework, worked in integrating TFS with VS 2015, SDLC, Agile framework with information architecture.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, WCF web services using AJAX, JSON.  • Created Web Pages on the server-side that would be populated depending on the business logic for the SOA layer.  • Involved in developing business logic for SQL Server and Schema level development in backend with respect to stored procedures and tables according to the requirement.  • Focused on creating custom filters and user-centric design where the users can easily create, edit and delete data as per their needs.    Environment: C#, ASP.NET, ADO.NET, MVC, SQL, HTML5, CSS, AGILE, WCF. Education Master's in Computer Science and Systems in Computer Science and Systems University of Washington - Tacoma, WA 2015 to 2017 BE in EEE Kuvempu University, Karnataka 2008 to 2012 Skills .net, Visual studio, Application server, C#, Git Links http://using.NET Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Languages: C#, .NET, ASP.NET, ADO.NET, Java  Scripting: PowerShell, JSON, Java Script  Database Languages: SQL Server  IDE's: Eclipse, Visual Studio 2015 & 2017  Web Technologies: HTML5, CSS, Java script, Angular JS  Cloud Technologies: Azure  Application Server and Web Servers: IIS, IIS Express  Configuration Management Tools: TFS, GIT  Architecture/Framework: MVC Architecture, ADO.NET Entity Data Model Framework  Debugging Tools: Postman, Fiddler