Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer - Superior Brokerage Services, Minnesota Blaine, MN High-performing, strategic-thinking and self-motivated  professional with more than four years' experience as Full-Stack developer in C#, MVC,  ASP.NET, Azure integration, MS SQL Server, JavaScript, jQuery, SOAP,  REST, Unit testing, System testing, Web API, Reporting (Power BI and Report Definition  Language Client-Side) and Xamarin.  Always ready to take on new challenges and highly passionate regarding learning new tools and  technologies.  Fluent in communicating ideas and solutions and experienced in working with a diverse,  multicultural team.  Experience and gained knowledge in Transportation, Warehouse Management System, Supply  Chain Management and Real Estate Work Experience Software Developer Superior Brokerage Services, Minnesota October 2017 to Present The company offers global transportation and logistics services: international  import/export freight forwarding, Customs brokerage, domestic transportation, warehousing and Supply Chain Management.  Roles & Responsibilities:    • Interacting with business users to understand the business flow, help in gathering  business requirements for application development, migration and general  advisory services.  • Designed, developed and implemented Business Logic class libraries  • Created user controls, web controls, and views incorporated with account/user  roles and permissions  • Design and development of consuming third-party integration partners using XML, and Web Services  • Used jQuery, JavaScript as for client-side validation and AJAX for partial post  backs  • Developed and maintained integrated console app for batch processing of orders  and another client provided inputs  • Transformed a few modules from the old application which uses .ASP Net to MVC4  • Participated in database design and development. (SSIS, stored procs)  • Worked with Message Queuing (MSMQ)  • Experienced in using third party tools like DevExpress and Jqxwidgets in the designing and developing of Webpages and Win forms  • Experience in creating REST APIs using ASP.Net Web API, SOAP, SOA  • Experience in using reporting tools like Crystal Reports, SSRS, SSIS and SSAS  • Strong database design and programming skills in SQL Server 2012/2008/2008  R2/2005, SQL Stored  • Procedures, functions, triggers, views, and importing/exporting data from varied  data sources  • Good working experience in using version control tools like subversion (SVN) and Bitbucket  • Experience in Manual Testing, Unit Testing along, including writing Test Cases, Performance testing using Load Runner 12.0, TDD  • Involved in all the stages of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including  Requirements, Analysis and Design, Implementation, Integration and Testing, Deployment and Maintenance  • Experience in developing mobile application using Xamarin  • Developed web based application following HIPA standards  • Experienced in Agile scrum methodologies as software development approach  throughout career for project management services. Prototype and Test Driven (N- Unit) development methodologies. Ability to rapidly absorb new concepts and  apply them effectively; effective in working independently and collaboratively in teams with excellent communication, task management and written skills with  exemplary analytical and problem-solving skills.    Environment: ASP.Net, MVC, C#, jQuery, Json, Ajax, Angular Js,Asp.Net Core, XML, XPATH, SOAP UI,SOA Architecture, SOAP, Windows service, Rest Api, Entity  Framework, TFS, N-Tire architecture, SQL Server 2017, Bootstrap, SSIS, SSRS, Windows Azure, Internet Information Services (IIS), Xamarin, Power BI  Castanhas Technology LLC, New Jersey Software Developer January 2017 to September 2017 The Company provides technical and professional services to the commercial real  estate industry. Performs Data Migration, System Integration, Custom Programming, Business Process Reengineering, System Selection, Operation Support.    Roles & Responsibilities:  • Software development primarily in ASP.Net, C# and MS SQL  • Responsible for Object Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD) for the assigned  task and participated in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC)  • Designed different ASP.NET components using C#.Net for enterprise-level Web  and Windows applications using Visual Studio 2010.  • Developed application using N tier architecture and followed AGILE methodology.  • Responsible for developing the applications using the MVC design pattern.  • Implemented web based front end using jQuery, Angular.JS, CSS, HTML  controls and business logic using C#.  • Worked with database export & import scripts to backup database structures and automation procedures.  • Built many dashboards and reports, using tools many customized tools of MRI  and Yardi that integrate data from across difference sources to provide superior  business and operational insights to senior leadership.  • Performed many data conversions and importing the data from different file  formats to the databases  • Created database links to retrieve data from multiple servers.  • Extract Transform Load (ETL) development Using SQL server 2008, SQL 2008  Integration Services (SSIS)  • Created Windows services to create automation processing of XML.  • Used SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS) for generating reports.  • Involved in deployment of the application on the test and production servers  • Provided client support for many reports and applications  • Maintained & enhanced existing dashboards and reports to respond to changing  needs, software updates and underlying data  • Created database objects like tables, users, roles, stored procedures, triggers.  • Worked on solving issues by doing data recovery in existing database.  • Extensive experience with a leading real estate software system (investment  management/property management/accounting) such as MRI and Yardi    Environment: Eclipse, Visual Studio, SQL, C#, Java, HTML, CSS, XML, JSON, Virtual  Machine, API's, Java script, jQuery, Web Services (REST, SOAP, JSON, Server) Technical Support Engineer Global Design Corporation August 2016 to December 2016 GDC Develops & Integrates the platform, monitoring and control solutions to optimize  efficiency in facilities, areas and devices. At the core of GDC's solutions is our G-HUB  software and technology platform that integrates, monitors, analyzes, and visualizes  data to optimize efficiency of your facilities, buildings, areas and devices.  Roles & Responsibilities:    • Worked on G -HUB which is an intelligent efficiency monitoring platform performing  Data Analytics and identifying bugs reporting to the department  • Providing networking, design, installation and maintenance services  • Resolving the issues 24/7 support over the telephone and by email  • Providing support for Windows, Macintosh and Linux issues  • Responsible for configuring and testing any new hardware and software  • Visit to client sites to help with installation, deployment, and troubleshooting  • Installing the software, operating systems and server operating systems  • Repairing and maintaining TCP/IP networking and hardware  • Ensured customer satisfaction by developing and nurturing professional and personal relationships with customer managers and by learning and catering to each  customer's business objectives  • Developed Account Support Plans to include customer's key performance  expectations  • Developed and maintained implementation documentation  • Implement or perform preventive maintenance, backup, or recovery procedures  • Keep abreast of changes in industry practices and emerging telecommunications  technology by reviewing current literature, talking with colleagues, participating in educational programs, attending meetings or workshops  • Troubleshoot and develop technical solutions related to software and data issues  related to Energy Monitoring Devices  • Worked in Start-up environment. Acquired knowledge on complete workflow Teaching Assistant for Software Engineering Fairleigh Dickinson University, New Jersey January 2016 to June 2016 Fairleigh Dickinson University is the first American university to own and operate an international campus and currently offers more than 100 individual degree programs to  its students. The school has four campuses, two in New Jersey (United States), and one  each in Canada and the United Kingdom. Fairleigh Dickinson University is New Jersey's  largest private institution of higher education with 12,000+ students.  Roles & Responsibilities:  • Participated in the development of overall test strategies/test plans for manual  testing including definition of test cycles and schedules  • Developed use case diagrams for every conceivable scenario -- such as use case  to determine the eligibility of the offering for a pass thru/non-pass-thru, use case for the same security scenario, matching the demand and supply process  Depicted the flow of various kinds of offerings, such as pass thru and non -pass thru through activity diagrams  • Developed Test Plan/Strategy document  • Monitored user expectations through user involvement and communication  throughout the project lifecycle  • Tracked and maintained user requested enhancements and changes Junior Developer Kargotech - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2015 to December 2015 Kargotech Software Systems, Pvt Ltd is a privately-owned software company offering  software development services to clients.  Roles & Responsibilities:    • Full life cycle experience including requirements Analysis, High Level Design, Detailed  • Design, Data Design, Coding, Testing, and Creation of Functional and Technical  • Documentation. Reviewed business requirements, functional designs to gain a deep  functional understanding of the application.  • Extensively participated in user meetings to gather the requirements of the application.  • OO Concepts and UML were immensely used for modeling.  • Developed the UI for the app using Edit boxes, Buttons, 9-patch images, Time  picker, Date picker, Dialog boxes, Alert boxes and Spinners using various layouts.  Monitored the user sessions and take appropriate action to kill the inactive sessions.  • Used fragments to build small re-usable pieces that are easier to manage and allow for a more fluid visual design and can adapt to tablet and phone resolutions.  • Experience in Java language for native coding.  • Implemented sorting options for search items based on categories (Relevance, Price, and Rating)  • Enhanced search functionality by adding auto fill and search history features.  • Created a local database using SQLite to store and retrieve the data (generally for the recently searched history of their credits)  • Used shared preferences to store and retrieve persistent key value pairs across user  sessions.  • Redesigned the cart checkout process with enhancements such as the accordion  style interface that acts as guide to complete user purchase.  • Used subversion for branching and merging new features without disrupting  mainline development on trunk.  • Created a credit calculator, which helps them to invest money before deadline.  Setup alert notifications for near bill to be paid. Creation of database objects like tables, views, materialized views, procedures and packages using oracle tools like  Toad, PL/SQL Developer and SQL* plus Smart Traffic Android App October 2014 to December 2014 Trained 100 people in the developing of Android app  ? Developed an Android app Smart Traffic App and selected by the State government  of India for further enhancement  ? Gained good command on user interface development and Android apps interface  such as Android Studio  ? Developed and awarded by Chief Minister of State among top 30 best android apps Education Master in Computer Science and Technology Fairleigh Dickinson University - Teaneck, NJ December 2016 Bachelor of Technology in Computer Science & Engineering in Computer Science & Engineering Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University - Kakinada, Andhra Pradesh Skills .NET, C#, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, WCF, SVN, XML, DATABASE, MS SQL SERVER, SQL SERVER, MYSQL, SQL, AJAX, ASP, CSS, IIS, ASP.NET, WEB SERVICES, MVC, SOAP