Software Engineer <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Software Engineer - Cincinnatis Flee Cincinnati, OH • About 4+ years of working experience in all phases of software application design and development of client-side application using UI Technologies  • Skilled in building responsive Single Page Applications using Angular (6.0) framework utilizing MV* architecture and Google Material Design library.  • Designed application using built-in and custom Components, Directives and Services with heavy reliance on Angular CLI  • Tested Angular Components, Directives and services using karma, Jasmine and E2E testing using Protractor  • Have experience with Webpack, Node Package Manager (NPM) and experience with Node.js development  • Experience in making Responsive Web Pages using CSS3 Media Queries, Foundation and Twitter Bootstrap  • Experience with Agile/Scrum methodology.  • Hands on experience in writing jQuery code and familiar with jQuery libraries.  • Good knowledge in Service Oriented Technologies such as RESTFUL and SOAP Webservices.  • Experience in design and development of Web Applications involving J2EE technologies with Java and Spring MVC.  • Good experience developing software using source control GIT. Work Experience Software Engineer Cincinnatis Flee - Cincinnati, OH April 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Working on a project following principles of Agile Project Management to build new Responsive User Interface for the new lab reporting Application called HCP (Health Care Portal) using latest front-end technologies Angular 6 and Google Material Design Library  • Developed and Integrated independent Supplies, Test-Directory, ordering modules into HCP  • Built custom components and landing page specific to client requirements for limited and full authorized. Also, created self-contained, reusable, and testable modules using Angular CLI  • Developed global custom directive for forms warning users of discarding changes upon navigating away  • Implemented JavaScript frame-busting code to prevent clickjacking  • Gathered requirements and recommend solutions to solve business problems  • Coordinated the workflow between the BA, UX designer, and QA  • Written Karma Unit tests and Automation Protractor tests (E2E testing)    Technologies: Angular, Google Material Design, NodeJS, Webpack, TypeScript, JavaScript-ES6, HTML5, CSS3, GIT, Source-tree, Rally (Agile Project Management Tool), VSCode, Eclipse. UI Developer T. Rowe Price - Baltimore, MD February 2016 to March 2018 Responsibilities:  • Worked with team to develop a mobile-optimized responsive website from the ground up.  • Designed Account Value chart component using HighCharts Library enabling users to view account value in monthly or daily format.  • Leveraged angular resources for all data access, encapsulating URLs and standardizing data access interfaces. Made extensive use of promises for application control flow.  • Worked with the team in building out a lean, responsive UI layer utilizing semantic html5, SASS, Bootstrap, AngularJS, Jasmine and REST Api architecture while adhering to the latest web UI standards, design patterns, and best practices.  • Built custom breadcrumb component specific to client requirements assisting users navigate across the application.  • Created self-contained, reusable, and testable modules and components.  • Written extensive unit tests using automated TDD tasks.  • Worked with the back-end developer in the process of building the RESTful API.    Technologies: High Charts library, Angular 1.5, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, jQuery, Git. Software Engineer Oulin January 2015 to January 2016 Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed web pages using HTML5, CSS3 and JQuery with the concept of progressive enhancement, accessibility, usability, and user testing.  • Involved in analyzing, Designing and Developing the User interface for Inventory and Logistics application by making supply chain shorter, consistent & enhance communication using JQuery.  • Implemented radio frequency identification Module to manage inventory  • Implemented JIT systems module for logistics by making supply chain shorter, consistent & strong communications  • JQuery UI Multiselect Widget was used adding a layer of abstraction giving filter search  functionality for selecting multiple areas.  • Used Kanban in scheduling of just in time inventory program  • Communicated with the development team for troubleshooting issues and solving design  problems.    Technologies: JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, jQuery, Git. Education Bachelor's