Jr. Software Developer Jr. <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Jr. Software Developer Wichita, KS obtain a full-time position in the field of Computer Science which demands the best of my  professional ability in terms of technical and analytical skills, and helps me in enhancing my current skill and  knowledge. Work Experience Jr. Software Developer ENNOVAR, Wichita State University September 2015 to May 2017 Developed user friendly mobile applications in android and iOS for industries which helps them to reach  their customers easy and efficient (http://webs.wichita.edu/?u=ennovar&p=/index).  • Used JAVA, XML, swift2, Android Studio2.3 and xcode7 for building applications. Software Engineer Vizag Steel June 2014 to May 2015 Built a web application for their web site which enables the users to register their complaints and online  and check the status of their complaint online at any time. The application also tracks the inventory to the company. Maintained the database. Reporting the daily tasks and scheduling tasks to the juniors.  • Used Java, jsp, Servlets, Hibernate, Oracle 11g. Software Intern Tammina InfoTech, Andhra Pradesh - IN April 2013 to August 2013 Worked with a Java based desktop application which securely stores and retrieves data over the cloud.  Our application divides the data into chunks and encrypts before uploading to cloud. The application is  build using Java6. During testing Oracle11g is used as a substitute to cloud. Public key Cryptographic s  scheme is used for encrypting and decrypting the data chunks before uploading and downloading from the cloud.    Projects Handled:  • Lawn Buddy:  • An innovative idea in bringing utility works like Lawn Mooring, Snow Removal services from the mobile devices. The mobile applications allow users to schedule lawn mooring and snow  removal right from the application, and have the flexibility to pay from the application. The  application allows user to rate the services which help further customers in choosing the best  option to get their job done.  • Food-Truck:  • As a part of University Development, food-trucks join the university dining in serving delicious  food from a wide range of cuisines. The mobile application developed will help students in identifying the food truck location and timings in a single click.  • Konexial:  • A research project to analyze the cost and efficiency of an application to the drivers in the fleet.  The application includes recording the time sheet for the drivers, navigation for trucks,  communication with dispatcher. (Konexial is a shipping and logistic company offering its services in North America and South America).  • Weapon Detection:  • As a part of course work, this project detects weapons using security camera recordings. Project  is developed using in Python language using OpenCV and Numphy libraries. Project includes  machine learning algorithms like KNN-algorithm.  • Library Application:  • A Java web application implemented during under graduation. It Maintains details of all  university employees and their time scheduling. Used Oracle11g as database and timing are  captured from a bar code reader machine. Integrated bar coder reader to the system and was  implemented in university.    Relevant Coursework:  • Advanced Analysis and Algorithms, Foundations of Network Security, Theoretical Foundations for Computer Science, Data Communications and Networking, Linear Systems  • Cyber physical security system, Management Information Systems  • Machine Learning, Data Mining:  • Understanding of Hadoop, Bigdata, and MapReduce. Implementation of MapReduce, A*  algorithm, and Alpha Beta Pruning.  • Privacy Enhancing  • Privacy in web applications and Mobile applications, project showing Behavioral advertising  effects.  • Advanced software engineering: UML diagrams, Refactoring techniques, Design patterns.  • Implemented few design patterns and refactoring of a library application by using refactoring  techniques and following software engineering principles. Education Master of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science Wichita State University - Wichita, KS May 2017 Technology Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University - Kakinada, Andhra Pradesh May 2014 Skills android (1 year), database. (1 year), JAVA (2 years), Oracle (Less than 1 year), XML (1 year) Additional Information • Diverse expertise utilizing Java tools in business, Web, Client-Server environment, including java  platform, Enterprise Edition, Java Serer Pages(jsp), Java database connectivity technologies, Java  framework (structs, Spring, hibernate).  • Fluid understanding in multiple programming languages, including c, c++, javascript, HTML, CSS.  • Excellent communication skills. Adept at building strong working relationships with coworkers and  management.  • Talented problem Solver able to think "outside the box".  • Proven background leading teams in stressful, deadline-oriented environements.    Skills:  Languages: Java (Spring, Hibernate), JavaScript, JSON, C, C++, JQuery, HTML5, CSS3, XML, Python, swift2,  .NET, reactNative.  Database: SQLite, Oracle, MySQL.  Technologies: Android Studio, WordPress, Amazon Mobile Hub, AWS, Tableau, Star UML, Xamarian.  Repositories: Git Version Control, SVN.  Actively Learning: Angular2.  Performance Testing Tool: HPE Load Runner V12.3.