Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Engineer Philadelphia, PA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Developer Freya Systems, LLC - Media, PA August 2018 to Present Working as a full stack developer on several web applications with various architectures. Technologies I interact with regularly include:  • Front end - angularjs, React  • Build tools - gulp, webpack  • Data visualizations - eCharts  • Back end - Java, Spring Boot  • Database - PostgreSQL  • Continuous Integration - Jenkins, Pivotal Cloud Foundry    Acting company lead on front end technologies, especially React/Redux. Taking leadership of one of the applications I work on, coordinating releases with testing team, pushing for the adoption of Agile methodologies and best practices across the board. Analyst JPMorgan Chase - Wilmington, DE January 2017 to July 2018 Worked in a team to release ASAP, an internal web app for attestation. Participated in requirements discussions with client and team, and offered both implementation and web design solutions. Performed testing, bug fixes, and new development.  • ASAP 2.0 (React, Java/Spring Boot, OracleDB) – Acted as front end lead developer, and was responsible for choosing the tech stack, as well as getting the team up to speed on the new technologies and establishing patterns for React components. Delivered initial page mock ups and further implementation on those pages. Also developed some Java/Spring Boot logic, integrated those services with front end, and wrote JUnit tests.  • ASAP 1.0 (AngularJS, Java/Spring Boot, OracleDB) – Prepared product readiness documentation while gaining familiarity with the product and codebase. Helped team with release by fixing bugs and eventually offering creative solutions and developing new AngularJS components, as well as pushing the team to adapt best practices for ease of code maintenance and reuse. Education Boot Camp in Software Engineering Zip Code Wilmington - Wilmington, DE September 2016 to December 2016 Bachelor of Arts in Computer Science University of Delaware - Newark, DE December 2013 Associates in Arts University of Delaware - Newark, DE June 2011 Skills Java (3 years), AngularJS (3 years), ReactJS (3 years), CSS (3 years), Javascript (3 years), HTML (3 years)