Student Assistant Student Assistant Seeking a full-time position as a Java Developer | Available to join immediately Albany, NY • 2+ years of experience in the software industry working in all phases of Software Development Lifecycle using Agile  methodology and Waterfall model.  • Well versed with Object Oriented Programming and Core Java concepts like Collections, Generics, Multi-threading,  Exception Handling.  • Specialized in working with web based applications using J2EE (EJB, JPA, JSP, Servlets).  • Experience in working with frameworks like Spring Core, Spring MVC and Hibernate ORM.  • Extensive experience on implementing SOA using REST Web Services (JAX-RS, JAXB).  • Proficient in web technologies such as HTML, CSS, XML, JavaScript, AngularJS 2.0, jQuery and Bootstrap.  • Hands-on experience working with RDBMS - MySQL, PostgreSQL, MS SQL Server and Oracle.  • Strong in writing and handling SQL Queries, PL/SQL, Stored Procedures and Triggers.  • Experience in working with open source tools Selenium (Selenium IDE, Selenium RC, and Selenium Web Driver),  JUnit, Eclipse and preparation of automation test framework.  • Extensive experience in programming, deploying, configuring popular J2EE Application Servers like Apache  Tomcat, JBoss, WebSphere, and WebLogic.  • Implemented security and authentication concepts in applications using OAuth 2.0, SAML.  • Experience in using IDE tools like Net beans, Eclipse, IBM RAD, IntelliJ and Visual Studio.  • Proficient in working with project management tools like Maven, ANT and used log4j for logging framework.  • Strong knowledge in using Issue/bug tracking tool such as JIRA.  • Well-experienced working with GIT and SVN for source code management functionality and version control.  • Excellent oral and written communication skills and analytical and programming skills.  • Highly motivated and dynamic team player with passion for learning and has the capability to meet deadlines in a  fast-paced environment. Work Experience Student Assistant Albany - Albany, NY September 2018 to December 2018 • Working under Professor Dawit Demissie for the course of Social, Security and Privacy Implications of Computing.  • Present subject matter to students under the direction of Professor, using lectures, discussions, or supervised role- playing methods.  • Conducting office hours to help students complete their assignments and course work on time.  • Distribute and grade homework assignments; Working an average of 10 hours per week while maintaining a 3.5 GPA. Software Developer Berkshire Solutions - Gujarat, IN November 2015 to May 2017 Duration: Nov 2015 to May 2017  • Handled development on a web based Business Intelligence application comprising of Dashboards, Analytics, Widgets, Annotations and creating Reports on the fly.  • Responsible for providing major enhancements in the project including redesign of the application interface as per the changes in business requirement.  • Involved in designing and development of web interface using JSP, Servlets, and JavaScript and jQuery.  • Developed Enterprise JavaBeans (EJB 3.0) for implementing application's business rules and policies.  • Implemented the service layer based on a Spring container and exploited Spring's IOC features for bean  management.  • Used Spring's dependency injection for injecting entity manager and managed beans into Spring beans.  • Implemented the persistence layer using Hibernate-ORM to interact with the database.  • Working extensively with Hibernate Query Language (HQL) to store and retrieve the data from PostgreSQL database.  • Designed and developed UI for reporting tools like BIRT, Jasper and Pentaho using AngularJS 2.0, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap and JavaScript.  • Familiarity with Service oriented architecture (SOA) by developing and consuming Restful web services based on JAX-RS and Jersey.  • Used OAuth 2 which is a lightweight authentication framework with a central authorization server and generates  an access token to access a protected resource on a resource server.  • Involved in writing SQL queries for PostgreSQL databases to build PL/SQL functions, store procedure, triggers, views and materialized views.  • Worked on Selenium tool for automation testing and Log4j framework for logging.  • Used Apache SVN as version control tool and Maven for building and deploying the application.  • Working with developers in other component teams to ensure consistent integration of services across teams.  • Monitor closely with the quality assurance team to achieve the highest business value for the company.  • Providing User Support and Maintenance to keep the project performing according to technical and functional  specifications.  Environment: JSP, Servlets, Spring, Hibernate, AngularJS 2.0, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, Bootstrap, REST, OAuth, JSON, HTML5, CSS 3.0, Selenium, PostgreSQL, Maven, Eclipse, Apache SVN, JBoss, Web Sphere, Log4j. Software Developer TecSo Global Ltd - Gujarat, IN July 2015 to November 2015 • Translate functional specifications into logical, component-based technical designs, and estimate the level of effort to implement the design.  • Developed and maintained all aspects of the web application using J2EE (JSP, Servlets and JDBC).  • Wrote application level code to perform client-side validation using jQuery and JavaScript.  • Designed the front-end applications, user interactive (UI) web pages using web technologies like HTML, CSS and Bootstrap.  • Involved in Designing the Database Schema and writing the complex SQL queries using MySQL.  • Extensively used GIT as version control tool for configuration management.  • Worked on Cross-Browser compatibility and fixed the bugs for several browsers.  • Formulate and define system scope and objective based on user needs and thorough understanding of business  processes.  • Continuously provide input to project management activities throughout the project lifecycle influencing scope, risk  plan, project plan, issues and status.  • Worked with QA team during various testing phases and debugged/resolved defects and executed unit test cases by using JUnit for accuracy of code.  Environment: JSP, Servlets, JDBC, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, Bootstrap, HTML5, CSS 3.0, XML, JUnit, MySQL, NetBeans, GIT, Apache Tomcat. Technical Recruiter Collabera Technologies - Vadodara - Gujarat, IN July 2012 to August 2013 • Have been responsible for recruitment of technical professionals including sourcing, screening and closing.  • Recruit, interview, evaluate and conduct reference checks to determine qualifications of candidates.  • Source applicants through various methods including advertising, recruiters, job sites, career fairs, online platforms.  • Keeping track of all applicants as well as keeping applicants informed on the application process using Microsoft  Office tools. Education Master of Science in Computer Science STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK AT ALBANY - Albany, NY May 2019 Master of Engineering in Computer Engineering GUJARAT TECHNOLOGICAL UNIVERSITY - Ahmedabad, Gujarat July 2015 Bachelor of Engineering in Information Technology GUJARAT UNIVERSITY - Ahmedabad, Gujarat July 2012 Skills Eclipse, Ejb, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Javascript, MySQL Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/saurinkhedia