Database Developer Database <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer Idaho Falls, ID Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Database Developer Mercury, Inc. - Idaho Falls, ID February 2019 to Present At the current job I am engaged in database development, optimization, administration, as well as in data integration services working with SQL Server. Software Developer Curriqunet - Idaho Falls, ID May 2018 to February 2019 I was working as a Software Developer at Curriqunet. The company provides and maintains curriculum management application for colleges around America. Duties included developing and updating the database part of the application upon user requests.  Web Developer BYU-Idaho September 2017 to April 2018 I was working as a web developer in the Online Technical Operations team at BYU-Idaho. Duties included building various web and command line applications in Node.js. Project Manager Intern The Church of Jesus Christ of Letter-Day Saints August 2016 to December 2016 Project management in networking. The department responsibilities included designing, installing, maintaining, and updating networks for sites located around the world. I was engaged in high-level planning and accompaniment of the projects. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Information Technology Brigham Young University - Rexburg, ID April 2018 Skills .NET (Less than 1 year), ANDROID (Less than 1 year), C# (Less than 1 year), C++ (Less than 1 year), CISCO (Less than 1 year), SQL (1 year), MySQL, Git, ASP, Javascript, PHP, jQuery, HTML 5, CSS Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/yurii-vasiuk-87003410a https://github.com/YuraVasiuk Additional Information Skills:  Programming: C++, Java, Python, C#  • Designed and coded game projects (Skeet, Asteroids) in C++ and Python as the part of learning object oriented programming. Designed and coded custom made data types (Vector, Linked List, Deque, BST, etc.) as part of a data structures course in C++. Did a data analyzing project using the Pandas library in Python.  • Using Android Studio, as part of a team, designed and implemented an Android App with 5000 lines of Java code.  • Used git commands to work on a single source code base with 20 other students.  Web Development: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Node.js, .Net, PHP  • Designed and coded dynamic websites based on MVC approach, connected to the database, with 5 to 10 pages, images, accessible colors, and forms for the user input. Worked as a Frontend Web Developer using Node.js framework.  Databases: SQL Server and MySQL, PLSQL  • Designed and created databases in MySQL and Oracle, including procedural programming and aggregate functions.  Networking: LANs, VLANS, and WANs  • Did projects of scaling and connecting networks implemented with the Cisco Packet Tracer; Worked as an Intern for project management in networking