Software Tester <span class="hl">Software</span> Tester Software Tester - Accord Global Technology Solutions ? 1 year 7 months of IT experience from my current employment with 'Accord Global Technology Solutions'  ? Software development in C.  ? Requirement based testing using RTRT (Standard followed for Code Development: DO178B).  ? Development of Unit level Test cases and Test execution of same using RTRT.  ? Ability to learn new technologies and understand quickly and their application in business solutions.  ? Knowledge of test automation using Python. Work Experience Software Tester Accord Global Technology Solutions December 2018 to Present Language Embedded C  Tools IBM Rational Test Realtime(RTRT), IBM DOORs    Description:  ? DSMS electronically controls and centrally monitors the passenger and freight doors as well as the relevant emergency hatches and slides.  Responsibilities:  ? Documenting the test data into IBM Rational DOORS.  ? Writing the test cases to perform low level Requirement testing as per DO-178B.  ? Executing the test on Rational Test Real Time. Software Engineer Accord Global Technology Solutions - Bangalore, KARNATAKA, IN July 2017 to Present Project Details  1.  Project Howell Display Unit (HDU) System Tester Accord Global Technology Solutions May 2018 to October 2018 Language Python  Tools Integration Verification Tool    Description:  ? The Potable Water Indication Panel (PWIP) is one of the main electrical units in the Potable Water System (WWS) for the A350 Aircraft.  ? It uses CAN interfaces to communicate with equipment within the Water System and in the Vacuum Transport System.  ? Displays human readable information from the Potable Water System.  ? Provide a Human Machine Interface (HMI) for interaction between the service crew or the maintenance crew to initiate service actions or to initiate maintenance actions.  ? HMI supports mechanical push buttons and soft buttons.    Responsibilities:  ? For Hardware Software Integration tests of the A350 Indication Panel, the complete automated tests was translated from the AOA-Automatic-Tester tool format to the Diehl IVT tool format (i.e in python).  ? Implementation of Python script to automate the hardware under test.  ? Executing the Python script on hardware using Integration Verification Tool.    4.  Project Slat Flap Control Computer (SFCC A380)  Client Diehl Aviation  Duration November 2018  Role Software Tester  Language Embedded C  Tools IBM Rational Test Realtime(RTRT), IBM DOORs    Description:  ? The SFCC (Slat Flap Control Computer) controls and monitors the slats and flaps during take-off, flight and landing. This is realized by control and monitoring the actuators which are allocated to the slats and flaps.  ? The SFCC is part of the secondary flight control system and belongs to the safety-related systems on the aircraft.    Responsibilities:  ? Analyzing the SFCC Software for latest code updates.  ? Writing the test cases to perform low level Requirement testing as per DO-178B for the latest code updates.  ? Executing the test on Rational Test Real Time.  5.  Project Doors and Slide Management System (DSMS A380) C Developer Accord Global Technology Solutions December 2017 to April 2018 Tools Eclipse IDE    Description:  ? mGNSS is a multipurpose Global Navigation Satellite System which receives navigation data from various major satellite constellation.    Responsibilities:  ? Understanding Interface Control Document of satellite constellation.  ? Implementation of SDBM (Satellite Database Manager) in C.  ? Extraction and validation of required information (Ephemeris, Almanac) from the data bits as per ICD of each signal.    3.  Project Potable Water Indication Panel (PWIP) Software Tester Accord Global Technology Solutions August 2017 to November 2017 Language Embedded C  Tools IBM Rational Test Realtime(RTRT)    Description:  ? Howell display unit is used in light combat helicopters, to graphically represents various and Engine Parameters such as engine oil temperature, engine oil pressure, air pressure etc.  ? The display has LED backlighting for long reliability, low brightness settings.  ? The display is fully sunlight readable with a photo sensor for auto brightness control.    Responsibilities:  ? Low level requirement review.  ? Code review.  ? Writing the test cases to perform low level Requirement testing as per DO-178B.  ? Executing the test on Rational Test Real Time.    2.  Project Multipurpose GNSS (mGnss) Education B.E. in Computer Science Angadi Institute of Technology and Management 2017 Education Govindram Seksaria Science College 2013 Additional Information Technical Skills    ? Programming Languages: C, Python, Java    ? Operating Systems: Microsoft Windows, Linux  ? Tools: RTRT, DOORS  ? IDE: Eclipse, NetBeans    Areas of Interest: Like To Play Guitar, Travelling, listening to the music.  Current Address: Shri Laxmi Narsimha PG for Gents, 1st cross Venkatapura main road  Kormangala 1st Block, Bengaluru 560034  Permanent Address: #426, Vithoba Galli, Khanapur 591302  Tal - Khanapur, Dist - Belagavi, Karnataka.    Declaration    I hereby declare that the above-mentioned information is correct up to my knowledge and I bear the responsibility for the correctness of the above-mentioned particulars.    Place: Bengaluru (Santosh S. Mithari)