Software Engineer <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Software Engineer San Francisco, CA I am a full stack developer with both functional and object-oriented programming background. I have 3 years  experience in programming distributed system software using Java, Python, Javascript, and the Agile/SCRUM  software development method. I am a quick problem solver, self-motivated, independent learner, in-depth  understanding of data structures and algorithms and a great team player who positively challenge diverse  solutions. Work Experience Software Engineer TushigMunkh Soft LLC September 2015 to June 2018 Worked as a full-stack software developer on a learning management system for Mongolian university  (NMIT) which has 100+ active users per semester.  • Implemented online tuition payment feature partnered with bank to make easier for students and financial department.  • Created semester and annual reports of students grade, an activity which decreased the process of reporting time for teachers rate by 50%, resulting in net $10K yearly savings.  • Modified SQL queries in order to speed up dynamic report load time by a factor of 8.  • Created new module takes feedback and surveys from students and generates reports which made a strong impact on faculty members working on analyzing surveys.  • On-site client development to quickly solve many major, minor bugs and made research, got user  interviews from 30+ teachers, faculty members and students to make requirements and initiated  prototyping.  • Customized UI and added localization Mongolian provided teachers to learn edx easily.  • Taught edx usage on how to make their own lesson to over 50 teachers. Student Developer Massachusetts Institute of Technology Global Startup Lab (MIT) June 2016 to August 2016 Developed mobile game application startup businesses under the supervision of MIT graduate  students.  • Designed and developed all phases of application for social group game including truth or dare and mafia.  • Led team of 4 developers and managed the project execution from beginning to end during all phases  of development and successfully launched within 2 months. Education Master of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science Maharishi University of Management (MUM) - Fairfield, IA June 2021 Bachelor of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science National University of Mongolia June 2018 Skills Api (3 years), Git, Html (3 years), Javascript (3 years), Reactjs (2 years), Python (3 years), RESTful API (3 years), Java (1 year), CSS (3 years), Django (1 year), Angular (1 year) Links https://linkedin.com/in/munkhzul-khurelbaatar