Senior frontend Engineer Senior frontend Engineer senior software engineer Jersey City, NJ Versatile frontend developer 4+ year's experience in the technologies including Angular JS, require JS, Backbone JS, JQuery, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS, Bootstrap and Core Java.Has experience in working agile process.Worked with CitiusTech technology, India as a Sr software engineer .completed Masters In Computer Application (MCA) from India.Currently on L2 visa. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior frontend Engineer Citius IT SolutionsPvt. Ltd - mumbai , india September 2017 to December 2018 Project: GE Healthcare: sept 2017- Dec 2018  Summary  This is Web Application designed where practitioner can create case of patient, attach the reports to the cases and can share those case with other practitioner.case history is visible to practitioner. patient can view the case.Admin has all the access to the application.    Main Technologies Angular JS, Javascript, HTML5, CSS, Bootstrap, grunt, npm, bower, web component tester, istanbul, mocha, chai.  Responsibilities  ? work closely with leads to analyze requirements, story slicing and prioritising.  ? Designedand code the application according to functional requirements.  ? Writing unit-test cases to ensure good branch, statement and code coverage.  ? Demonstrate sprint work to the client.    Project: GE Digital: Jan 2016 - 30 th june 2017  Summary  This is Web Application designed where user can configure different types of developed widgets(bar graph, spider, Stripedlist, kpi count widget etc.). These widgets provide  analytical view of the data, where data is stimulated by various predix machines    Main Technologies Angular JS, Javascript, HTML5, CSS, Bootstrap, grunt, npm, bower, web component tester, istanbul, mocha, chai.  Responsibilities  ? work closely with leads to analyze requirements, story slicing and prioritising.  ? Designe and code the application according to functional requirements.  ? Writing unit-test cases to ensure good branch, statement and code coverage.  ? Demonstrate sprint work to the client. Senior Software Engineer Citius IT SolutionsPvt. Ltd - mumbai india April 2016 to December 2018 CitiusTech is a specialized provider of healthcare technology and business process services to healthcare technology companies, healthcare providers, managed care organizations, health plans, and disease management companies. Software Developer mobicule technologies - mumbai india August 2015 to December 2015 Summary  This is Chrome Application designed to increase the sales executive productivity by capturing the customer details, provides the option to submit, view and track the status of captured information.    Main Technologies Angular JS, Javascript, HTML5, CSS, Bootstrap  Responsibilities  ? Understand and analyzed the requirements  ? Designed and coded the application according to functional requirement's.  ? Writing unit-test cases to ensure good branch, statement and code coverage. Software Developer mobicule technology - mumbai india August 2014 to February 2015 Summary  This portal is designed to support the loan application processing needs of bank.It provides the strong loan origination system. Through this the user able to generate lead, can check the CIBIL Score of submitted lead .and if approved the user submits the generated lead    Main Technologies Angular JS, Javascript, HTML5, CSS, Bootstrap  Responsibilities  ? Understand and analyzed the requirements  ? Designed and coded the application according to functional requirement's.  ? Writing unit-test cases to ensure good branch, statement and code coverage.  ? Deployed the application on server Education MCA in Master Of Computer Application Bharti Vidyapeeth, Mumbai University - Mumbai, Maharashtra Skills VISUAL STUDIO, JAVASCRIPT, BOOTSTRAP, SVN, HTML5 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Technologies known  Angular, requirejs, backbone js, Javascript, Jquery,  HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, polymer js,  Phonegap, , Core Java, Web component Tester, Karma using Mocha, chai    Package managers Npm, bower  Development tools Eclipse, svn, git, webstrom, visual studio  Status tracking tool Rally  Code coverage and review Sonarqube, istanbul