NET Developer NET <span class="hl">Developer</span> Oak Brook, IL Work Experience NET Developer Mokena, IL February 2019 to Present Community Service Partners Mokena - IL, Feb 2019 - Present  • Designed and developed a mobile-friendly website which is being used by 6 different NGO's using C# and Bootstrap.  • Built reports containing graphs, tables, and documented data for the fiscal year 2018-2019 for Sertoma Centre using SQL Report builder and have  written stored procedures for the same purpose.  • Developed and maintained a Health Care application used by the NGO's for recording and using client data.  • Working on building a responsive web application that helps the NGO's to track the location of an employee to see if they have reached the client  location and update other details regarding the client. Software Engineer Gateway Classic Cars - O'Fallon, IL July 2018 to January 2019 O'Fallon - IL, Jul 2018 - Jan 2019  • Designed database schema and created tables for SugarCRM database along with developing modules and customizing the CRM according to the needs of the company.  • Developed and maintained web scraping tool using Google chrome extension crawler written in PHP and used JavaScript for extracting data.  • Built a scaffolding tool as a part of the Data entry project that writes PDO classes and builds forms for 54 different tables by implementing server side  business logic using PHP and front end code using AngularJS.  • Upgraded the existing website from PHP5 to PHP7, MySQL to PDO and HTTP not secure to HTTP Secure site.  • Created Data feeds that go out to 18 other websites based on all the specifications as requested by the clients. Graduate Teaching Assistant Northern Illinois University - DeKalb, IL June 2017 to May 2018 Dekalb - IL, Jun 2017 - May 2018  • Assisting students and Professors with Technical Support as well as grading undergraduate student assignments and examinations.  • Promoted to Head TA in January 2018; led weekly meetings and supervised four other TA's.    •Projects  Community Development Software Project, Architected a Windows form Application using C#, ASP.NET,  2018 JavaScript, HTML and CSS. Used ADO.NET for accessing the Database. Implemented C#, .NET validation controls Dekalb, IL and JavaScript validations.  GISA CM System., Built an event management system using MS Access to enable managers to create, approve and 2017 Dekalb, IL  generate event reports.  Advanced Core Data, Developed an iOS Application which allows the user to store and update the data in the 2017 Dekalb, IL  entities created using XCode9 and concepts of iOS programming.  United Helpers Web Page, Developed webpage using PHP, HTML5 and MySQL. Created Data Models and Schema  2016 Dekalb, IL as a means of capturing data. Designed ER diagrams and implemented the database. Software Developer, Intern City of DeKalb Government - DeKalb, IL June 2017 to February 2018 Community Development Software project- Designed and developed a Database for property related data for the government of DeKalb to help  transform existing permitting and property related tasks from paper-based to electronic using Agile Development practices.  • Wrote well-designed, testable code in C# for the web applications and CSS, HTML for responsive web pages. Education Master's in Computer Science NORTHERN ILLINOIS UNIVERSITY - DeKalb, IL August 2016 to May 2018 Bachelor's in Electronics and Communication SREENIDHI INSTITUTE OF SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY - Hyderabad, ANDHRA PRADESH, IN June 2012 to June 2016 Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/srivaishnav-gandhe-41848033 http://srivaishnavg.com