Software Developer/Full Time <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span>/Full Time Software Developer/Full Time - ICAC Data System Frederick, MD Have 6 years of experience as back-end developer. Skilled with Python, Java, MATLAB, and Javascript. Can get fluent with new concepts and languages extremely quickly. Strong automation and analytical skills dedicated to maximum efficiency during development process. Experienced with AWS and other cloud providers. Work Experience Software Developer/Full Time ICAC Data System December 2018 to Present • Implemented full CI/CD pipeline for entire API repository  ? Created Gitlab CI/CD runners on Amazon EC2 instances  ? Automated shutdown and startup of EC2 instances for cost savings  ? Automatic individual testing of build, release, and deployment stages  ? Implemented easy management of runners and CI/CD configuration options  ? Automated container deployment to Amazon ECS cluster via Amazon BOTO3 library  • Dockerized portions of repository and application  • Scripted data fetching and parsing routines Software Developer/Contractor Semper Fortis LLC October 2017 to August 2018 • Created RabbitMQ message analytics system complete with ReactJS frontend  ? Used Secure Web Sockets and Socket.io combined with Node.js Streams to emit messages from a Shared MongoDB instance  ? RabbitMQ Asynchronous consumer written in Python  ? Automated Build/Test/Deploy for entire project on across all environments  ? Container deployment of system runs on Docker swarm behind an Nginx proxy for out of swarm production access with end to end encryption  ? Used RX/JS to backpressure the stream going to clients using the web app, along with the implementation of a "play/pause" system for each individual client  • Created robust workstation monitoring and user tracking scripts that emit messages to RabbitMQ based on user actions and time of day  • Setup x.509 authentication-based MongoDB instance Software Developer iTransform LLC December 2015 to October 2017 • Helped small, family owned businesses setup secure transaction websites to stop transaction manipulation and fraud  • Designed company website    Core Competencies:  • Able to work in diverse teams  • Thrive on peer feedback and a team environment  • Pickup new languages and skills extremely quickly  • Driven with any task, will not stop until done but most importantly until done right  • Strong presentation and public speaking skills  • Enthusiastic about learning new technologies, often will self-learn and figure out ways to apply to work  • Skillful problem solver  • Driven by results Education Associate Skills Docker (4 years), Reactjs (2 years), Python (6 years), Linux (8 years), Shell scripting (6 years), Git (6 years), Javascript (3 years), Golang (2 years), AWS (2 years), Java (3 years), Matlab (5 years)