Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer - State Farm Plano, TX Work Experience Software Developer State Farm - Richardson, TX December 2018 to Present Bank - Deposits)  • Developed a Spring Boot service to send email & letter Bank communications to customers  depending on the status of their deposit application.  • Established Jenkins pipeline to aid in continuous integration and continuous deployment so that  our Spring Boot and ReactJS web app can be deployed rapidly to different test environments.  • Added functionality to restrict access to form fields and actions on the front and back end of our  internal web app based on the privileges for that user.  • Migrated existing Spring Boot apps to the Pivotal Cloud Foundry platform. Software Developer State Farm - Richardson, TX July 2018 to December 2018 Bank - Credit Card Originations)  • Develop, test, and maintain our team's customer facing web app.  • Developed an automated testing suite to conduct end-to-end testing of our team's web app  functionality utilizing Puppeteer and Jest.  • Participated in Agile training - a class that integrates training with our team's real work and deadlines. Software Developer State Farm - Richardson, TX January 2017 to July 2018 General Financial Services - Billing & Payments Modernization)  • Assisted in the development of an internal support tool using JavaScript and jQuery to help  agents working with customer billing accounts.  • Utilized test-driven development with unit tests and mutation analysis tools to ensure quality of code.  • Responsible for development, test, and maintenance of web service components.  • Conducted analysis on support tickets to pinpoint defects and ultimately fix them in our services  • Embraced Agile methodology by following SCRUM practices with 5 other developers to assist  teams in the development of priority features involving web service components.  INTERN EXPERIENCE Systems Intern (Back-End Developer) State Farm Research & Development Center - Champaign, IL May 2016 to August 2016 Worked on a team to design and create an Admin Panel using Django, to allow staff to manage  content on State Farm's RDC website. RESTful API endpoints were created to allow the front end of the RDC's website to retrieve content that was added or updated in the Admin Panel. Education Bachelor of Science in Mathematics & Computer Science University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign - Urbana-Champaign, IL December 2016 Skills Api, Django, Git, Html, Javascript, ReactJS, Spring Boot, Git, Maven, JUnit, Pivotal Cloud Foundry, Java, Python, JavaScript, Restful API, Agile, MVC, Pair Programming, Test Driven Development, MYSQL, hibernate (1 year), PostgresSQL (1 year) Additional Information SKILLS/KNOWLEDGE  • Languages: Java, Python, JavaScript  • Testing Frameworks: JUnit, Mockito,  • ReactJS, jQuery, HTML, CSS, Django Jest  • Spring Boot, RESTful API, MVC •   • Version Control: Git   • Jenkins, Maven, Pivotal Cloud Foundry  • Agile/Scrum • Pair Programming, Test-Driven  Development