Software Developer(C# .Net) <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span>(C# .Net) Software Developer(C# .Net) - Liberty Mutual Insurance Seattle, WA Work Experience Software Developer(C# .Net) Liberty Mutual Insurance - Seattle, WA February 2019 to Present Safeco Applications, consists of various projects in quoting and issuing policies to customers for different business types in line of business for. Currently, I am working in Quote and Issue(QandI) project for Auto line of Business.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in Enhacing existing application. Exisiting application allows to add upto 4 vehicles for each policy in Quote and Issue. Business requirement is to enhance application to add up to 8-vehicles for each policy.  • Involved in Design & Analysis of the Business Specifications, Development, and Customization of the application using Agile- Scrum methodology.  • Involved in interacting with Business Analysts, Product Owners, Scrum Master on day-to-day activities.  • Worked extensively on client-side and server-side validations.  • Used Partial classes, Exception Handling, Hashtable, Delegates, Interfaces and other concepts in C#.  • Consumed internal and third party Web services for business logic.  • Developed unit test cases. Involved in doing end to end testing.  • Used Git hub, Jira for maintaining code.    Environment: Visual Studio 2017, C#, Visual Basic, ASP.Net, Html, Css, JavaScript, Web Services, Mainframe, IBM Db2, GitHub, Jira, Agile - Scrum Methodology.    Accomplishments:  "Project launched successfully in 11 United States till now." C# .Net Developer New York State Department of Public Services - Albany, NY December 2017 to February 2019 PTC is one of the projects in DMM which provides services to New York citizens and Gas, Electric, Telecommunications providing companies of New York. PTC is public facing application, which displays offers, rates, so on etc related data provided by companies based on area codes to public.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in Design & Analysis of the Customer Specifications, Development, and Customization of the Application using Agile- Scrum methodology.  • Involved in interacting with users on day-to-day activities.  • Worked extensively on client-side and server-side validations.  • Used Partial Views, Attribute Routing, Exception Handling, Dependency Injection concepts.  • Developed and Consumed Rest Web API services for business logic.  • Used Entity Framework Database First approach to access and retrieving data from database.  • Created Tables, Views, Stored Procedures, and Functions in PL/SQL language using SQL Developer tool.  • Developed unit test cases. Involved in doing integration testing.  • Used TFS for maintaining code.  Environment: C#, MVC Framework, Visual Studio 2015, ASP.NET, Html, Css, JavaScript, Web API, Entity Framework Database First Approach, Oracle 11g, SQL Developer Tool, Integration Testing, TFS, Agile - (Scrum, Kanban board) Methodology.  Links:  http://documents.dps.ny.gov/PTC/home C# .Net Developer DMM December 2016 to December 2017 DMM is a group of multiple projects which provides services to New York citizens and Gas, Electric, Telecommunications providing companies of New York. I involved in doing enhancements, providing production support on various projects of DMM that consists Internal Site, Public Site, and Registered Site.    Responsibilities:  • Do enhancements to existing applications by gathering requirements from end users.  • Web Form Controls to create responsive web pages, developed Master Pages  • Used Authentications like windows authentication and forms authentication for Intranet application (Internal Site).  • Developed and Consumed WCF services for business components.  • Created Tables, Views, Sequences, Triggers, Stored Procedures, Functions in PL/SQL language using SQL Developer tool.  • Used Crystal Reports for generating reports and stored those reports in FileNet.  • Used iTextSharp library for generating pdf files.  • Worked as production support and technical help desk to the users.  • Responsible for opening ITSM Tickets for the production issues.  • Involved in fixing production bugs.  Environment: C#, Visual Studio 2015, JavaScript, ASP.NET, JQuery, WCF, ADO.Net, FileNet, Crystal Reports, iTextSharp, Oracle 11g, SQL Developer tool, Unit Testing, Integration Testing, TFS, Agile - (Kanban board) Methodology.    Accomplishments:  "Migrated YouTube Video Compression application from JAVA to Console Application (C#) - To display Subtitles for YouTube videos in periodic time frames".    "Responsible for opening ServiceNow ITSM to open tickets for the production issues."  Links:  http://www.dps.ny.gov/ Software Developer (C# .Net) Accompany It - Alpharetta, GA June 2016 to November 2016 Involved in implementing GCTD application used by clinical professionals to drug. This maintains information about drugs: manufactured history, advantage and disadvantage, side affects, precautions for drug usage, availability, rating, drawbacks and additional information related to it.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in requirement gathering, functional and technical specification.  • Used N-tier architecture for presentation layer, Business and Data Access Layers.  • Developed web forms using Asp.Net, C#, Client-side validations using Java Script.  • Implemented Master pages to allow centralize the common functionality of the pages.  • Created Web Services to fetch data required and work accordingly, also used the concepts of Serialization.  • Used Ado.Net objects such as Data Adapter, Data Reader and Dataset for consistent data access.  • Developed database objects like tables, views, stored procedures, functions.  • Worked with QA team on daily basis in fixing the reported bugs/defects.  • Used TFS for source code management.  Environment: C#, .NET framework 4.0, Visual Studio 2012, HTML, ASP.NET, CSS, JavaScript, Web Services, ADO.Net, SQL Server 2012, Unit Testing, TFS 2013, Agile - (Scrum) Methodology.  Links:  https://www.astrazeneca.com/ Education Master's in Computer Information Systems in Computer Information Systems University of Central Missouri 2016 Bachelor's in Computer Science in Computer Science Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University Kakinada 2014 Skills Visual studio, Api, C#, Javascript, Middleware