Automation Software Developer Automation <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Automation Software Developer Farmington, NY Work Experience Automation Software Developer Entrust Datacard, Shakopee August 2016 to November 2017 to automate manual processes throughout the company using agile methodologies.  • At the same time working in three different projects with different technologies.  • Extensive work in C#, Magento and Angular. Worked using SSMS, Oracle. Was also involved with extensive UI development.  • Used Jira, git and TFS to track projects. Software Developer OATI, Greater Minneapolis November 2012 to May 2013 to design and develop web based application using agile software development methodologies.  • Extensive work in Java and with databases using MS SQL Server 2008/2012. This involved working with stored procedures, tables, sql queries and SQL server jobs.  • Used TFS for tracking work items and testing. Software Engineer, specifically working as testing engineer HCL Technologies - IN August 2007 to April 2009 for web application LNRE  • Manual testing and Automation testing experience with QTP. Also acquainted with Ruby and SilkTest scripts  • Developing Test Plans and Test Cases    • Quality maintenance and configuration control for an entire project and team and generating reports for the Client. Also perform Project risk and Cost analysis Education Master in Computer Science in Interplanetary Internet University of Nebraska - Lincoln, NE 2011 to 2012 Master of Computer Applications in Computer Application University of Calcutta - Kolkata, West Bengal 2004 to 2007 Bachelors in Science in Computer Science Syamaprasad College, University of Calcutta - Kolkata, West Bengal 2001 to 2004 Skills Sql, Software engineering, C#, C++, Git, Html, Javascript, Oop, Software development, Svn, Java, Css, Team player, Presentation skills Links https://github.com/mukherj Assessments Search Engine Optimization — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to interpret online website performance metrics and understand search engine optimization tactics. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/h9vpxk-8ii5-w0if Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information CORE COMPETENCIES  • Language proficiencies in Java, C#, SQL, C++, JavaScript, HTML, CSS  • Developed projects in Angular and Magento  • Sound understanding of software engineering concepts and OOP principles  • Experienced with Agile Software Development Methodologies  • Used GIT, SVN, TFS for tracking project updates  • Able to meet deadlines, attaining perfection in all work  • Quick learner, team player with great communication and presentation skills