FullStack UI Developer FullStack UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> FullStack UI Developer - United States Anesthesia Partners (USAP) Dallas, TX * Around5 years of experience in developing the front end/web applications using HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, JSON and AngularJS.  * Designed and developed the application to be responsive for desktop using Bootstrap (HTML5, CSS, and JavaScript)  * Experience working on scalable environment using Agile/SCRUM, Test driven development (TDD) methodologies.  * Highly accomplished, results-drive'n professional with front-end, Node.js and Java experience in web application design, development, agile methodologies, code deployment and improvements.  * Strong understanding and excellent skill in developing, designing, professional, Ajax driven elegant enterprise web application using Ajax, JavaScript, CSS, HTML, Custom Tag Libraries and various Java Design patterns.  * Experience in developing web pages using responsive design and adapt to the changing environment.  * Created web applications for the clients using AngularJS and Bootstrap.  * Extensive experience in developing web page quickly and effectively using jQuery and in making webpages cross browser compatible.  * Thorough understanding of CSS principles with a clear ideology for managing maintainable, scalable and cross-browser code.  * Embedded new Media Elements i.e., video and audio files using the HTML5 markups. Used HTML5 File API for uploading local files from the client-side. Implemented the new features of HTML5 forms like Input types, miscellaneous attributes i.e., required, placeholder, autofocus etc.  * Used local storage and Application caches to store information locally on the client's computer.  * Developed source code to consume JSON response received through XHR/Ajaxcalls using jQuery. Ajax () calls.  * Experience in consuming Web services using REST and SOAP.Expertise in handling Version Control Systems like GIT.  * Experience writing unit test cases using Karma and Jasmine to perform end-to-end testing on Angular JS applications.  * Quick learner and proficient in solving the technical issues in the project. Work Experience FullStack UI Developer United States Anesthesia Partners (USAP) - Dallas, TX February 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  * Responsible for building responsive, dynamic web applications using HTML, CSS, Angular and Typescript/JavaScript and requirement gathering.  * Created modules and re-usable Angular4 components based on use cases of the application.  * Used various features of Angular 4/5 like data binding, custom pipes, routing, custom directives, string interpolation, and dynamic binding to meet custom requirements.  * Registered Angular components in Angular modules using decorator functions like Component, NgModule.  * Made HTTP calls to a remote server's Web API using HTTP service.Consumed data defined in JSON objects using Web API.  * Implemented Angular Material cards, widgets, toasts, switches different sections of the application.  * Used Typescript to write class, interface, module statements, navigation and refactoring. Mobile friendly Responsive Design using CSS/LESS Preprocessor and media queries.  * Used the webpack tool to bundle and inject JavaScript and Style sheet files into HTML at runtime.  * Accessed and manipulated private member fields defined in Typescript file using get and set properties.  * Created data services for code reusability in components.  * Performed authentication, authorization, data-binding, event-handling, validation, routing and navigation.  * Implemented Agile methodology for adaptive planning, evolutionary development, delivery and improvement of work.  * Maintained version control utilizing GIT.  * Performed end to end test using the protractor tool and tested JavaScript codes using the Karma tool.  Environment: Angular 4/5, JavaScript, TypeScript, jQuery, XML, Karma, Ajax, JSON, MS SQL Server, VSTS, CSS3, HTML 5, Axure wireframe, Agile-Scrum methodology, TFS, Visual Studio 2015 UI Developer WellsFargo - New York, NY January 2017 to February 2018 Responsibilities:  * Developed all the UI pages using HTML5, CSS3, JSON, JavaScript, Angular JS, PrimeNG, Font Awesome.  * Created XHTML Pages with CSS and the Box Model.Integrated the Java code (API) in JSP Pages.  * Designed Frontend with in object oriented JavaScript Framework like AngularJS, NodeJs.  * Defined new validations through AngularJS for the form field validation implemented through HTML5.  * Developed custom directives in AngularJS for the application independent components like sticky header for window or table, custom dropdowns, tables, checkboxes, radio buttons, notifications, chevrons, graphs, date pickers, pagination etc.  * Used jQuery plugins for Drag-and-Drop, Widgets, Menus, User Interface and Forms.  * Designed Pdf, Excel and Print previews for all the reports in the application using HTML, JavaScript and SQL Stored Procedure.  * Involved in developing HTML and JavaScript for client side presentation and, data validation on the client side with in the forms.  * Developed UI using JavaScript, HTML, AngularJS, CSS, JavaScript validations and XML.Implemented interaction between frontend and backend using the JSON object.  * Used SQL Server along with NodeJs, as a database to store JSON.  * Wrote Cross Browser code of CSS and JavaScript, AngularJS for Internet Explorer and Firefox.  * Experienced in working in Agile based development environment and participating in Scrum sessions and worked with the Project Management tool like VSTS.  * Built comprehensive front end JavaScript unit tests using Jasmine and Karma.  * Successfully executed all the test cases and fixed any bugs/issues identified during the test cycles.  Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, XML, Karma, Ajax, JSON, Visual Studio, AngularJS, NodeJs, Oracle RDBMS, Selenium MS Office and GIT. UI developer Genesys Laboratories - Indianapolis, IN January 2015 to November 2016 Responsibilities:  * Worked as a UI Developer, assisting my team in developing, designing and implementing front end part, and managed in developing of Account summary/overview, Login page.  * Wrote code in HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript, making use of Bootstrap framework.  * Used Responsive Web Design (RWD) techniques to enhance user's behavior based on screen-size, platform and orientation.  * Used AngularJS 1.5 as frameworks to create a Single Page Application (SPA) which can bind data to specific views and synchronize data.  * Integrated React.js components into the AngularJS application to make webpages more responsive and efficient.  * Worked on React.js Virtual DOM and React views, rendering using components which contains additional components called custom HTML tags.  * Used React.js for templating for faster compilation and developing reusable components.  * Involved in upgrade and maintenance of company's website to the new layout using the Grid orientation model Bootstrap framework and CSS3 Flexbox.  * Involved in Creating and Consuming RESTful Services using Node.js, MongoDB to do CRUD operations.  * Used Ajax and JSON with for request data and response processing.  * Proficiency in developing based on Models, Views and Controllers (MVC) architecture.  * Created file and does Unit testing by creating Test Suits using Jasmine.Involved in using jQuery Validation Plug-in for client side validation.  * Worked with GIT to optimize code repository.  * Used continuous integration tool Jenkins to deploy application and used JIRA to do bug tracking and project managing.  * Used jQuery Validation Plug-in for client side validation.  * Used Agile Development Methodology and Scrum team structure for the development process.  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, Ajax, React.js, AngularJS 1.5, Bootstrap, XML, Node.js, MongoDB, Express.js, Jasmine, GIT, Jenkins, JIRA, Agile, Scrum. Sr. Frontend Developer/UI Developer/ Software Developer Sr. Frontend Developer/UI Developer/ Software Developer Education Masters State University Skills Sr. Frontend Developer/UI Developer/Software Developer React JS, Redux, Angular JS, Bootstrap, DHTML, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, Ajax, NodeJS,Backbone JS Illustrator, Photoshop, RESTful API, JSON, JSONP Java Script, AJAX, JQuery, SVN, JDOM,EJB, Redux, JSX,, Bootstrap, JSON, Boot Strap, XML Flux, Router, XHTML, Java, Spring, JSONP Mobile web development, Dreamweaver, Flash, Web Mobile (All SmartPhone, Ipad, Tablets), AJAX, PHP, XML, XSD, CSS, Django, Apache Tomcat, DOM, XTML, XPATH, XHTML, Bootstrap, AWS, Jenkins, Maven, CVS, Git Hub, Tortoise Edit Plus, Dreamweaver, notepad++, sublime text, Java, J2EE, Core Java, Spring, Hibernate, JSF, W3c validator, IE Tester, Firebug, Chrome Inspector SQL server, Oracle, DB2, MongoDB, Hadoop, Teradata Windows, Unix, Mac OS, Linux, Shellscirpting, Perl PHP, Drupal, MVC, WPF, WCF, Putty, Eclipse IDE, RAD, .Net, C#, Java, J2EE, Core Java, Apache HTTP Server,