Software Freelancer <span class="hl">Software</span> Freelancer Software Developer Cleveland, OH Work Experience Software Freelancer July 2017 to Present •Developed and tested a mobile game with tactile touchscreen feedback and innovative gameplay.  •Collaborated with other developers on a medieval-themed RPG as part of a university research project aimed at reducing anxiety in pre-teen children.  •Took online courses in front-end technology stack and updated web development skills to current best practices. Software Developer Epic Systems June 2016 to 2017 •Member of a small, focused group that develops and maintains Epic's Data Warehouse product.  •Collaborated with business intelligence developers to implement an easier workflow to import different data  sources into the warehouse. Responsible for mostly the front-end UI changes.  •Help maintain Epic's internal performance monitor that preemptively detects problems on live customer systems. Senior Capstone Project May 2016 to May 2016 Machine Learning in Basketball  • Collaborated with another programmer to compare different machine learning algorithms' performance in predicting the outcome of basketball games.  • Implemented a web crawler to scrape data off the internet, and a deep neural network to train using that data.  Skills (left to right in order of highest to lowest proficiency)  • Knowledge of languages: C#, Java, JavaScript, jQuery, SQL  • Experienced with Microsoft Visual Studio, ASP .NET MVC, SQL Server, ROS, Android Developer Tools (ADT)  • Some experience with Ruby on Rails, and Linux/Unix-based systems Software Developer Intern Epic Systems May 2015 to August 2015 •Redesigned the workflow and UI to allow patients to schedule multiple appointments for multiple people.  •Learned to use ASP .NET MVC and built a new UI/workflow from scratch.  •Collaborated with an UX intern to run usability tests on actual doctors/patients, and iteratively came up with our  design based on their feedback.  January-May 2015: Robot Operating System (ROS) Development  • Programmed custom robots constructed in the Case mobile robotics laboratory to perform various tasks, by using and building on top of the existing ROS libraries (C++).  • Implemented functionality including velocity ramping, LIDAR detection/obstacle avoidance, and point-cloud  processing (using the Xbox Kinect). Game Developer PC Game Development September 2014 to December 2014 Collaborated with other programmers and artists to design and implement a 3D first-person survival horror game  using the Unity Game Engine (free version)  • Implemented an Item Inventory system using an object-oriented hierarchy system written in C#; also wrote  scripts for in-game triggers and player-driven triggers. Education B.S. in Computer Science Case Western Reserve University - Cleveland, OH May 2016