Software Developer and Component Designer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> and Component Designer Software Developer and Component Designer • A dynamic professional with 5 Years 2 Months of experience in the areas of development in Microsoft Technologies (MVC, C#, ASP.NET, WCF, AngularJs, ADO.NET and SQL Server).  • Working with TCS as IT Analyst (ITA).  • Extensive experience in development, requirement review as a Component Designer, Unit Testing in development phase and Integration Testing post development.  • Extensive knowledge of software development process and methodologies.  • Performing Unit Testing, Integration Testing after the completion of every sprint in each Release.  • Resourceful team player and capable of delivering tasks within stringent timelines.  • Always willing to work on new skills/technologies.  • Stretchable to any level of extent based upon the project requirement.  • Prompt status reporting and On-Time delivery of Customer requirements. Work Experience Software Developer and Component Designer January 2014 to December 2018 Project Description:  SAAS:  Software as a service is a model of software deployment where by a provider licenses an application to customers for use as a service. The Strategic SAAS Platform will enable provisioning of BT and 3rd party services and products quickly, inexpensively, and in an integrated manner through various channels such as Agent, Interactive Voice Response (IVR), online portals.    MGD:  A BT customer can report a fault to the Agent where-in the agent will carry out the initial diagnostics with a set of predefined questionnaire to try and solve the problem. Engineer's appointment can be booked If a potential issue is found in the diagnostics.    Responsibilities  • As Developer  ? Development and unit testing.  ? Feasibility analyses, identify risks, critical implementation areas, estimate the impact, and analyze new ideas and solutions to accomplish the user stories.  ? Code review and test scopes review covering the requirements preparing test case tractability matrix against end to end design documents.    • As Component Designer  ? Component Designer for 2 years 11 months.  ? Involved in the gathering of requirements  ? Involved in designing of solutions for customer products like PSTN, Broadband, and Cloud Voice.  ? Responsible for providing estimates for the stories involved  ? Responsible for preparing LLD's (Low Level Design Documents)    Achievements  • Received on the spot award.  • Received best team player award.  • Received Certificate of appreciation from BT (Client).  • Trained freshers and new comers in the project to make use of them quickly in the active development. British Telecommunications - MGD, SaaS, BT 2010 to 2010 Education Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University Hyderabad B.TECH Vignan's Engineering College Vikas Junior College Vikas Public School Additional Information Technical Skills  Operating Systems MS Windows XP/07  Web Technologies MVC, ASP.NET, WCF, ADO.NET, AngularJs  IDE Visual Studio 2008, Visual Studio 2010, Visual Studio 2015  Languages C#  RDBMS MS SQL Server 2008, MS SQL Server 2012  Web Servers IIS 7.0