Software Engineer <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Software Engineer - Baker Hughes GE Metairie, LA Work Experience Software Engineer Baker Hughes GE - New Orleans, LA May 2018 to Present GE Digital/Baker Hughes GE    COMPLAN  Incubator project currently in development at Baker Hughes GE  • Technologies used: Java, Spring Boot, Postgres, Redis, React.js, JHipster, Docker    Plant Operations Advisor (POA)  https://www.bhge.com/news/bp-deploys-plant-operations-advisor-gulf-mexico- platforms  "Built on GE's Predix platform, POA applies analytics to real-time data from the production system and provides system-level  insights to engineers so operational issues on processes and equipment can be addressed before they become significant. POA helps  engineers manage the performance of BP's offshore assets by further ensuring that assets operate within safe operating limits to reduce unplanned downtime." The project has also been adapted and applied to other customers, including those international.  • Technologies used: Java, Spring Boot, Postgres, Redis, Angular.js, JHipster, Docker, GraphQL Software Engineer II Geocent, LLC - New Orleans, LA July 2015 to October 2017 Automated Cash Reconciliation Worksheet System (ACRWS)  The Automated Cash Reconciliation Worksheet System (ACRWS) is an accounting software developed for the National  Finance Center (under the United States Department of Agriculture) to track cash flow between the United States Department of Treasury and what is recorded in the NFC general ledger. The system imports several files daily, monthly and yearly in several  different formats and stores the data in a database. The user interface enables accountants to run reports, adjust the ledger, and verify the accounts balance between NFC and the Department of Treasury.  • Used agile methods to conduct daily stand-up meetings, write and estimate user stories, and perform sprint reviews, demos and backlog grooming.  • Technologies used: Java, Oracle PL/SQL, Jasper, Spring, Java Server Pages    Joint Training Enterprise Architecture (JTEA)  The Joint Training Enterprise Architecture (JTEA) is a project centered around providing shared services for the Joint Staff  J7, who provide the training enterprise architecture support for the US Military. Geocent's responsibility during the project  was to develop shared services for security, database, and BPMN among others.  • Worked with product leads and other teams to integrate shared services into the OpenAM security system  • Configured, deployed, and customized the OpenAM security system to work with the Common Access Card (CAC) and Personal identification Verification (PIV) smart cards Part Time Developer Immense Networks, LLC - Baton Rouge, LA March 2014 to March 2015 Responsibilities:  ? Collaborating with Web Designers to create a pleasing and clean design to the end user  ? Assisting in building frontend and backend for a variety of corporate websites  ? Integration of web applications to existing corporate software  Ongoing Projects  General Cryptographic Currency Research  ? Personal project revolving around a number of different crypto currencies such as Bitcoin, Ethereum, and ZCash  ? Primarily intended to learn about different security algorithms in real world, open sourced implementations    Finished Projects  Kinect(TM) Image recognition  ? Project for Artificial Intelligence class  ? Used heat maps from the Kinect's 3D camera to capture images of different objects  ? Trained a neural network to process and classify given images with relatively high accuracy  ? Java with Neuroph framework.  Unnamed Desktop Mirroring App (incomplete)  ? Constructed a video stream intended to display on a mobile device  ? Mobile device had remote control of the desktop using gestures and touches.  ? Proof of concept used Java & Red5 server Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science Louisiana State University - Baton Rouge, LA September 2010 to May 2015 Skills Java, Hibernate, Spring, .net, C#, C++, Docker, Hadoop, Javascript, Angular.js, Node.js, Ruby, Rails, Ruby on rails, Vb.net, Postgres, Hadoop, Redis, Android, X86 Additional Information Skills  Programming Languages  • Proficient: Java (Spring Boot, Hibernate/OpenJPA), Javascript (Node.js, Angular.js), C# (.NET), Redis, Postgres, GraphQL  • Exposure in: C++, VB.NET, x86 Assembly, Hadoop, Ruby on Rails, Lua, Go, Elixir,  Software  • Android, Ansible, Docker, Vagrant, VMWare, VirtualBox