Software Engineer <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Software Engineer - Manulife Financial Work Experience Software Engineer Manulife Financial December 2017 to Present Designed and developed a micro service architecture solution to fetch electronically signed forms from DocuSign  to internal AWD (Automated Work Distributor) System and processed them by RPA (Robotic Process  Automation) robots for a full automated digital user experience. Used Kafka, NodeJS, Apigee and SQL db.  ? Developed middleware application to integrate Alfresco and Message Point to in house applications by developing REST/SOAP API's Apigee Edge/Micro-gateway and NodeJS  ? Working in agile software development environment including 2 week sprints, demos, retros and daily stand-ups  ? Managing/Guiding on-shore/off-shore developer squad to work towards a common goal Software Development Engineer Toyota Motors North America December 2016 to December 2017 Designed and developed a hybrid mobile application using NodeJS with Ionic Framework, AWS and SAP which allowed users to manages tasks, orders and send status updates to SAP backend via mobile devices  ? Made a Java Web Service to synchronize data between in-house and third-party application, worked with business  and third party company to implement the Web Service which will be called every 3 minutes  ? Designed and developed a web based reporting tool using Java, WebSphere application server and SQL server for managers to generate daily attendance report for their team Software Consultant Capgemini Consulting Canada May 2016 to December 2016 Carried out a Guidewire ERP implementation for an insurance client while working on-site with client's team  ? Created business requirement documents based on client's requirements, presented weekly status and coordinated  development and testing with the offshore team  ? Migrated Data from legacy system to new ERP system using Business Object Data Service (BODS). Information System Engineer Toyota Motors North America [Co-op January 2015 to April 2015 Developed a web applications using .NET MVC 3 for TMMC Plastics shop, which integrated with their internal  quality & Inventory management system to track emergency stock components.  ? Developed a mobile application using SAP UI5 which provided real time inventory data for more than million+  materials. The Application was integrated with SAP using the OData protocols Software Developer Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce May 2014 to August 2014 Developed and maintained revenue forecasting web applications using ASP .NET MVC 3 for investment bankers  to report daily business activity  ? Developed and published web pages on the Wholesale Banking Corporate website using Microsoft SharePoint  2010 to help corporate customers stay updated Software Test Associate BlackBerry Ltd September 2013 to December 2013 Developed Robot Framework automation keywords to test social applications (e.g. LinkedIn, Facebook, Twitter)  for BlackBerry mobile devices  ? Investigated and developed python modules to enhance lab stability and prevent test run failures, which dramatically increased reliability of test results  ? Configured Jenkins application on lab computer for repeated executions of jobs  ? Setup and maintained automation lab with 20+ server and devices IT Intern Analyst TD Canada Trust [Co-op January 2013 to April 2013 Wrote test automation scripts using Selenium and Quick Test Professional for customer websites (e.g. EasyWeb)  ? Assisted in developing a companywide project management application which provides project and individual  status at a glance Education Bachelor of Applied Science in Computer Engineering in Vraj Canada and Engineering Society University of Waterloo - Waterloo, ON September 2011 to April 2016 Skills C#, Git, Javascript, Ionic, Jenkins, Python, Kafka, Mongodb, Nosql, Mvc, Database, Database systems, Mysql, Oracle, Html5, Asp, Asp.net, Ejb, J2ee, Java Additional Information Skills  ? Programming Languages: NodeJS, Java, J2EE/EJB, C#, ASP.NET MVC, Python  ? Web/Mobile Technologies: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Angular, REACT, Ionic Hybrid Mobile framework  ? Database Systems: Oracle, MySQL, NoSQL Database, MongoDB, Microsoft Azure, S3 bucket, GraphQL  ? Tools/Technologies: Apigee Edge, AWS, Kafka, DocuSign, Agile, RPA, Selenium Automation testing  ? DevOps tools: Jenkins CI/CD, Concourse Pipelines. JIRA, PCF, Git, SonarQube, Black Duck