Software Engineer <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Software Engineer - Gartner Inc Stamford, CT Work Experience Software Engineer Gartner Inc - Stamford, CT August 2018 to Present • Developed scheduler application written in Java using Spring Boot.  • Worked on ETL using stored procedures in TSQL.  • Followed company best practices for standing up AWS ECS environment using Hashicorp Terraforms.  • Developed standard practice for constructing CSVs from SQL queries and uploading to SFTP. Software Developer Sila Solutions Group - Shelton, CT June 2015 to July 2018 Aided in maintenance of existing code base.  - Followed MVVM design pattern.  - Utilized SVN as source control.  - Maintained issue tracking using JIRA.  • Developed Android application using C#, Mono, and Xamarin.  2    - Developed polling service for communication  - Utilized web services to communicate Android application, server and client desktop application  together.  • Developed and updated WPF applications based on client mock-ups.  - Worked with C#, XAML, XML and XSL.  - Engaged in Agile Scrum team.  • Participated in the design and development of core company software.  - Aided in full stack design that laid the foundation for future products.  - Helped in creating visual diagram displaying flow and transfer of data.  - Worked with a team of developers to port to new architecture.  • Worked on a mobile application utilizing Xamarin Forms.  - Aided in development and design of GUI.  - Worked closely with another team member to construct web services.  - Tested application on both target frameworks of: iOS and Android. Application Development Intern Affinion Group - Trumbull, CT June 2014 to August 2014 • Utilized Git as source control.  • Aided developer team in project to update legacy .NET 2.0 code to .NET 4.0.  - Integrated code with new data access layer.  • Practiced key functional programming concepts. Utilizing:  - Microsoft LINQ  - Lambda expressions  - Anonymous types  • Implemented separation of concerns design pattern within code to promote reusability and feasible  unit testing. Application Development Intern Affinion Group - Trumbull, CT May 2013 to August 2013 • Designed web site using MVC implementation.  • Self-taught skills in C#, HTML and .NET. Education BS in Computer Science & Engineering in Computer Science & Engineering UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT - Storrs, CT 2011 to 2015 High School Diploma BUNNELL HIGH SCHOOL - Stratford, CT 2007 to 2011 Skills .net, Apache spark, C#, Docker, Html, Javascript, Jenkins, Json, Wcf, Xamarin, Xml, Wpf, Sql, Java, Spring, jquery, Angularjs, Jira, Css, Rest Links https://github.com/Nicholas-Eng https://www.linkedin.com/in/neng0218/ Additional Information KEY SKILLS  Java AngularJS .NET  C# SQL REST  HTML JIRA WPF  CSS Xamarin WCF  JavaScript XML Agile Scrum  jQuery JSON Spring Boot    EXPOSURE  React Jenkins Docker  AWS Terraform Apache Spark