Software Programmer/Analyst <span class="hl">Software</span> Programmer/Analyst Software Programmer/Analyst - County of Monterey Monterey, CA Work Experience Software Programmer/Analyst County of Monterey - Salinas, CA January 2018 to Present Design, implement, and maintain large software and computer application systems for County departments. Collaborate with customers, vendors, IT personnel, and other departments to gather system requirements and implement system design specifications. Evaluate software conformance through unit/regression testing and evaluation; identify and correct problems. Write code in assorted programs, databases, and languages.  Key Achievements:  * Enhanced data sharing between state and county web applications using APIs, third party databases, and flat files to improve tracking of cannabis permits, parcel management, and tax status.  * Built and monitored ASP.NET MVC application for Monterey County fleet management transition to electronic tracking for government vehicles, eliminating need for paper documentation.  * Deployed Git workflow to develop, test, and stage team integration to encourage engagement with constituents via the Monterey County Connect (MCConnect) application, increasing development time and allowing for a stable staging environment without service interruption.  * Wrote C# methods to analyze, decrypt, and extract data from legacy code to encrypted QR code to enhance check-in time for Department of Child Support Services from 10 minutes to one minute, improving payment processing time. Software Engineer Sierra Instruments - Monterey, CA December 2016 to January 2018 Developed and applied software system testing and validation methods. Managed software development lifecycle and monitored system performance. Conducted statistical analysis through A/B testing to collaborate with marketing team on website rebrand. Coded scripts to schedule and maintain data backup of products and sales transactions.  Key Achievements:  * Increased security of web store Authorize.net transactions by applying Diffie-Hellman key exchange and two-way encryption.  * Improved business intelligence by implementing Laravel PHP to track and document consumer meter flow.  * Created staging and production environments to enable website testing on multiple servers to avoid interruption in service.  * Managed, tested, and improved company web store to ensure site ran quickly, consistently, and securely to generate sales ranging between $10-100K per year.  * Led migration of databases from legacy hosting service to cloud service to increase website speed and improve customer click through and conversion rates. Technical Support Analyst Digital Schools - Salinas, CA August 2016 to November 2016 Conducted statistical analysis to identify and prevent errors in database transactions. Cleansed school district data to yield faster and reliable search results. Scripted import of employee information and business transactions to run in SQL server database.  Key Achievements:  * Created scripts and reports that reduced search time in database from 24 hours to less than a minute to deliver results.  * Eliminated manual process of script upload to create an improved, single formatted spreadsheet. Software Tester QA4U Software Testing Labs, Inc - Marina, CA March 2016 to July 2016 Maintained quality software standards and mitigated risks through rigorous testing. Gathered client requirements and followed software specifications.  Key Achievements:  * Deployed several successful software releases in partnership with educational enterprise learning software. iOS Developer Self Employed - Monterey, CA September 2014 to May 2016 Developed applications for mobile devices using Objective-C. Tested performance, quality, and responsiveness of applications. Identified issues and took corrective actions. Maintained code quality, organization, and automatization of applications.  Key Achievements:  * Designed all gameplay, artwork, and music in Cocos2D framework and published game to iOS App Store; downloaded by 100 users.  * Built website for Monterey Recreation.gov to display available campsites and user locations. Webmaster Bean Capers, Inc - Oakland, CA October 2015 to February 2016 Maintained company website and servers. Tested website on various browsers and operating devices and ensured web servers, software, and hardware were operational. Analyzed website traffic, tested access, and modified web pages as needed.  Key Achievements:  * Enhanced WooCommerce account to enable administrators to engage with subscribers.  * Organized subscriptions with metadata using CSV export plugin.  * Enabled track and verify functions on custom orders with MySQL. Education Master of Computer Science in Computer Science Georgia Institute of Technology - Atlanta, GA May 2022 Bachelor of Science in Mathematics University of California Irvine - Irvine, CA 2014 Skills AMAZON WEB SERVICES, C#, Git, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, MYSQL, CSS, PHP Links http://linkedin.com/in/eliud-j-ortiz https://github.com/ejortiz https://bitbucket.org/ejortiz17/ Certifications/Licenses Certified ScrumMaster (CSM) April 2019 to April 2022 DataCamp, Introduction to Python March 2018 to Present DataCamp, Python Data Science ToolBox March 2018 to Present DataCamp, Importing Data In Python April 2018 to Present DataCamp, Statistical Thinking in Python April 2018 to Present Additional Information AREAS OF EXPERTISE  • Broad knowledge of engineering development environments, best practices, and cutting-edge processing technologies.  • Success designing, executing, and maintaining complex software systems, data structures, and algorithms.  • Skilled team player capable of managing multiple priorities to ensure on target completion of all deliverables.  • Outstanding cross-collaboration and communication strengths leveraged to train users, troubleshoot system issues, and ensure total client satisfaction.  • Exceptional background in mathematics, encryption, statistics, and digital signal processing with an eye for detecting patterns and learning complex technical systems.  TECHNICAL PROFICIENCIES  Platforms: Windows, Mac OS, Cocos2d, WooCommerce/Wordpress, Amazon Web Services  Tools:  HTML, CSS, PHP, Python, ASP.NET, C, C#, Java, JavaScript, Apache, Git, jQuery, SQL, MySQL, LAMP Stack, Unix, Bash, Linux, Microsoft Office Suite