Software Developer and Project Manager(Capstone Project) <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> and Project Manager(Capstone Project) Software Developer and Project Manager - UPS Newark, NJ Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Software Developer and Project Manager(Capstone Project) UPS February 2019 to May 2019 AUGMENTED REALITY ENTERPRISE SUPPORT - (ARES) - Mobile Application  • Centralized system that can track and inform employees when support tasks are assigned and allow a more interactive experience to be  initiated between a technician in the field with a support employee in different location. Software Developer DOCUSOFT PVT LTD - Indore, Madhya Pradesh July 2015 to June 2017 India  • Revamping web applications created in .Net technology and jQuery to use Angular Js.  • Creating Windows Services which run 24/7 to fetch information.  • Collaborated with technical team members to integrate back-end and front-end elements.  • Designed and implemented User Interface Layer using ASP.NET and VB.NET Web Forms  • Developed several Web-based applications applying design patterns like MVC architectures for easy maintainability.  • Fixing bugs reported by users and took care of enhancements suggested by customers.  • Prepared detailed reports to evaluate the overall progress of the development.  • Designed training modules for UK clients to acquaint them with document management system.  • Utilized ASP.NET, VB.NET, AJAX, and Microsoft Visual Studio for development.  • Trouble-shot and fixed problems through customer requests, and QA.  • Managed work items in Microsoft Team Foundation Server.  • Implemented Web.config file to connect and access data from SQL Server. Debug the web applications to rectify the errors that surface  during the operations. Worked effectively in a team environment with other developers, analysts, project managers and client staff.  • Adaptive to change, Interpersonal, problem-solving and analytical skills, interpersonal skills, excellent verbal and written communication  skills, Strategic thinker, self-managed, leadership Qualities. Believe in innovation and enthusiastic. Education Master's in Computer Science New Jersey Institute of Technology - Newark, NJ August 2017 to May 2019 Bachelor's in Computer Science Oriental University - Indore, Madhya Pradesh August 2011 to May 2015 Skills .net (1 year), Adobe photoshop (Less than 1 year), Ajax (1 year), Android. (Less than 1 year), Asp (1 year), Asp.net (1 year), Aws (Less than 1 year), Bootstrap (Less than 1 year), Database (1 year), jquery (1 year), Microsoft visual studio (1 year), Model view controller (1 year), Model-view-controller (1 year), Ms asp (1 year), Ms sql server (1 year), Mvc (1 year), Sql (1 year), Sql server. (1 year), Vb.net (1 year), Visual studio (1 year), Communications, Scrum, Agile, Integration, Testing, Software Development Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/mohil-prapanna-a8ba49153 https://github.com/MohilP