Technical Consultant Technical Consultant Technical Consultant - RSM US LLP Denver, CO Software Developer with an affinity for Project Management that thrives in a fast paced interpersonal environment, with exceptional communication and leadership skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Technical Consultant RSM US LLP - San Diego, CA October 2017 to Present • Worked with a focus on SSRS report and database customization within the Microsoft Dynamics 365 ERP product solution.  • Translated business goals, feature concepts and customer needs into prioritized product requirements, use cases and business requirements documents.  • Developed the user interface, reports, workflows and forms in Microsoft Dynamics 365 across a broad range of industries.  • Designed and implemented solutions on time and monitored budget while delivering high quality services.  • Directed onsite training for business users to maximize productivity and understanding of the provided solution.  • Developed many data integrations connecting Microsoft Dynamics 365 to several external applications. Software Developer CarMax - Richmond, VA June 2015 to October 2017 • Built, tested and deployed scalable, highly available and modular software packages.  • Drove continual improvement to system architecture by refactoring legacy code.  • Collaborated with product and engineering teams to define and develop new product concepts.   • Modified existing software to correct errors, adapt to new hardware, and improve performance.  • Created proof-of-concept prototype applications for demonstration and evaluation by upper management.  • Updated, modified and expanded existing software programs leveraging continuous integration practices.  • Led communication with stakeholders keeping them updated on progress and product goal changes.  • Recommended and implemented design and integration solutions as well as architectural improvements. Education Bachelor of Science Radford University - Radford, VA Skills .net (4 years), Acceptance testing (4 years), database (5 years), Dynamics 365 (2 years), ERP (2 years), API (4 years), CRM (3 years), CSS (2 years), Salesforce (2 years), Java (1 year), C# (3 years), Agile (4 years), Scrum (4 years), Project Management (3 years), User Experience Design (2 years), Quality Assurance (3 years), HTML (2 years), Technical Writing (4 years), Scala Certifications/Licenses Microsoft Certified Professional (MCP) February 2018 to Present I acquired this certification by passing the Dynamics 365 ERP Development exam for Microsoft.