Web Developer Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> Web Developer - Upwork California City, CA • 3.5+ Years of experience in the IT industry working with Web Based Applications and UI applications in various domains.  • Expertise in all phases of the software development life cycle including requirements gathering, analysis, designing, coding, testing, integration, and documentation.  • Extensive experience in developing web and web 2.0 applications using Ajax, OO Java Script, jQuery, HTML5, XML, DHTML, CSS3 and MVC framework.  • Extensive experience as web developer with a strong background working on open source technologies, including HTML5, CSS3, MySQL, JavaScript.  • Experienced with implementing different features of Bootstrap. Good knowledge in Angular JS, React JS and Responsive Design.  • Experience in utilizing React JS for creating the interactive user interface and for its efficient data flow architecture to render efficient web application via GitHub API.  • Solid understanding of JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, and Angular 2/4/5/6.  • Good Experience on Ext JS Data grid, charts, Forms and Layout Manager Components.  • Good Experience in handling Ext JS, Ajax Request and Response using Java Spring and JSON.  • Good experience with Form Validation by Regular Expression, and JQuery Light box.  • Hands on experience for HTML/CSS direct coding with focus on Cross-browser/Cross-platform compliance.  • Experience in Developing Applications Using CSS3 Media Queries, SASS, LESS and Responsive Web Design making the Web Pages Fluid across Multiple Devices. (Grid, Fluid layouts and Break Point Approaches)  • Experience in writing structured markup, CSS and JavaScript/JQuery and keeping up to date with the latest developments in web technology. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Developer Upwork - Mountain View, CA September 2018 to Present Video broadcasting website development Seemelive.tv  • Working on Live video broadcasting website design and development for responsive webpages  • Requirement gathering, prepare design for responsive webpages, estimation  • Web design and development using React JS, JavaScript, CSS, Bootstrap, HTML, PHP, Oracle  • Automated unit testing using Jasmine  • Implemented various screens for the front end using React.js and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager) and redux library.  • Working with Git repositories  • Data modeling using Erwin  • Project coordination, risk analysis  • Utilized ReactJS & REDUX for rendering and deployment of end setting web pages.  • Worked with User Interface and User Experience team to collaborate on the best user experience, look and feel.  • Developed rich user interface using CSS, HTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Created business Logic using Python/Django.  • Using d3.js to visualize data with HTML, CSS.  • Worked with Bootstrap Components which are written in AngularJS using Angular-UI components.  • Used HTML5 elements like video, audio and canvas in making the website interactive.  • Designed, developed, and maintained dynamic user interfaces for multiple web applications.  • Worked on Agile environments and relished tweaking Front-End markup and scripts to bring the UI interaction.  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Node.js, React/Redux, DOM. Software Developer ARC Infowave January 2016 to September 2018 Web development  • Responsive web development and testing for all mobile and desktop platforms  • Web design and development using JavaScript, CSS, Bootstrap, HTML, PHP, MySQL  • Requirement gathering, prepare design for responsive webpages, estimation  • Creating a range loop directive and components in React.js and Implemented MVC framework.  • Project tasks Planning and scheduling including Critical Path Method (CPM), Earned value analysis and management (EVM) following PMO standards,  • Project Scheduling using MS Projects & Primavera P6  • Used React JS for templating for faster compilation and developing reusable components.  • Used React-autocomplete for creating google maps location search on the webpage.  • Developed the React container and presentational components (as State less and Functional components when applicable)  • Worked on Ext JS and created reusable components like Menu Navigation, Session monitor which was very useful in the application.  • Used JQuery core library functions for the logical implementation part at client side for all the application.  • Debug the application using Firebug to traverse the documents and manipulated the Nodes using DOM and DOM Functions using Firefox and IE Developer Tool bar for IE.  • Involved in developing HTML and JavaScript for client-side presentation and, data validation on the client side with in the forms.  • Involved in writing SQL Queries, Stored Procedures.  • Developed Page layouts, Navigation and presented designs and concepts to the clients and the management to review.  • Created database using MySQL, wrote several queries to extract data from database.  • Data modeling using Erwin  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Node.js, React/Redux, DOM. Education M.S. in Delaware USA Information Systems Technology Wilmington University Bachelor of Technology in Technology West Bengal University of Technology Bachelor's Skills Angular