Service Now Developer Service Now <span class="hl">Developer</span> Service Now Developer - ITLLC Work Experience Service Now Developer ITLLC - Houston, TX December 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Worked with process owners and business stakeholders to translate business requirements into functional requirements within ServiceNow.  • Use JavaScript to create Business Rules, Client Scripts, UI Policies and UI Actions.  • Created various workflows for Incident Management, Change Management, Service Requests and SLA's.  • Assist in the import of configuration and asset data.  • Implementation, customization and configuration of different Service Manager Modules like Change Request, ESS, Service Desk, Service Catalog, Problem and SLM.  • Working on Report, dashboard designing.  • Defined SLA, OLA and Contract for the customer.  • Configured SLA workflow for the advance SLA configuration.  • Developed automated mappings to schedule the load of flat files on daily, weekly and monthly basis.  • Involved in testing Service- Now form and reports for correct mapping of the objects and data correctness.  • Configuring Data Sources, Import Sets, SLA/OLA, LDAP and Transform maps.  • Development/Integration of Web services for B2B communication for Change Management using inbound and outbound actions with script Includes and Sonic for the synchronization between third party and the ServiceNow Change application by processing XML Tags containing the full information of the record.  • Prepared documentation for requirements, design, installation and unit testing and system integration of Service- Now.  • Trained all the users of the reports on using Info View and exporting reports to various formats.  • Configuring Data Sources, Import Sets, SLA/OLA, LDAP and Transform maps.  • Development/Integration of Web services for B2B communication for Change Management using inbound and outbound actions with script Includes and Sonic for the synchronization between third party and the ServiceNow Change application by processing XML Tags containing the full information of the record.  • Conceptual and strategically analytical with an ability to understand information system and thoroughly analyse and address business needs.  • Creating workflows to handle the status flow once the request is received from an external tool.  • Key contributor in Service Integration ITSM Tools team including configuring ITSM tools to engage effectively over the Service Integration Layer, building Web Services for different technologies and providing support for demos to internal stake holders as well as client stake holders.  • Analysing the workflows so that the existing interfaces and the OOTB functionalities were not disturbed to meet client requirement with successful outcome.  • Full responsibilities of Install DB, ARS, ITSM Suite in Production and Development Servers.  • Designed, developed, and maintained the report portal which provides user access to scheduled reports and report parameters.  • Provided user training, guidance and instructions for information retrieval from Oracle databases.  • Involved in testing reports for correct mapping of the objects and data.  • Worked in production support for all the Service- Now and report related issues.  • Involved in basic SOAP message creation and Web service implementation.  • Implemented Social IT and Chat Application for the end user support.    Environment: ServiceNow, Jakarta Release notes, Asset Management, Incident Management, Problem Management, HTML, Java script, CSS, jQuery, MS SQL server 2008. Service Now Developer/Admin UHG - Minneapolis, MN July 2016 to November 2017 Responsibilities:    • Moved data in and out of an instance using import sets and transform maps and auto import of data into servicenow  • Defined Service Level Agreements SLAs, notifications, and reports.  • Integration of service now with LDAP for user authentication purposes.  • Worked on creating users, roles, groups and Configured LDAP Server and LDAP Listener for updating the user and group table record.  • Worked with process owners and business stakeholders to translate business requirements into functional requirements within Service Now.  • Use JavaScript to create Business Rules, Client Scripts, UI Policies and UI Actions.  • Writing Business Rules, Client Scripts, UI Policies and UI Actions to customize the instance as per Business needs.  • Assist in the import of configuration and asset data.  • Implementation, customization and configuration of different Service Manager Modules like Change Request, ESS, Service Desk, Service Catalog, Problem and SLM.  • Configured multiple Catalogue Items Front-end web / GUI components using JavaScript, SOAP, Web services, CSS, HTML5.  • Creating Knowledge articles to document the steps in creating the catalogue items.  • Worked on CMDB and Asset management.  • Creation of Email Notifications and Inbound Actions.  • Development of SLA for the organizations Implementation of ACL.  • Working on Report, dashboard designing.  • Configured SLA workflow for the advance SLA configuration.  • Involved in testing Service- Now form and reports for correct mapping of the objects and data correctness.  • Worked in production support for all the ServiceNow and report related issues.  • Investigate performance issues, learn troubleshooting tools, and use system logs to find issues.  • Created the UI pages to use them in catalog items, Implemented-using UI scripts.  • Created various workflows for Incident Management, Change Management, Service Requests and SLA's.  • Worked with windows team, network team and Asset team to check for the data collected through discovery is accurate.  • Created new Business Rules/Script Includes/Client catalogue script/Client Script.  • Imported CI's using import set tables.  • Imported Active Directory to ServiceNow using data sources.  • Worked on order guides, to arrange them in sequential order to make the user comfortable while raising a request.  • Re-designed workflows using workflow editor, Reconciled complicated workflows to simpler form.  • Wrote script includes invoking them in reference qualifiers or variable scripting Understand the functional business logic to implement into the report level to meet the user requirements.    Environment: ServiceNow Geneva and Istanbul, JavaScript, CSS, XML, HTML, XHTML, Perl, Jelly, WSDL, LDAP, Web Services, PowerShell, and SNMP. Service Now Developer ModSpace - Berwyn, PA October 2015 to June 2016 Responsibilities:  • Responsible to perform day-to-day administration of the ServiceNow Tool Maintain business services and configuration item relationships in Service- Now tool.  • Designing solutions to enhancement requests by developing in JavaScript, Jelly and implementing workflows.  • Involved in working with process owners to develop workflow, implement the workflows in Service Applications and administer the tools.  • Develop necessary development documentation, as needed e.g. technical design, developer notes, etc.  • Performs core configuration tasks including system policies, business rules and client scripts.  • Manages users, groups and roles.  • Setting up Configuration Management, defining the CI classes and their relationships.  • Used JDBC and ODBC of Data Sources for setting up the configuration database in Servicenow.  • Implementation, Customization and Maintenance of ITIL modules such as Incident, Change, Problem, Knowledge, Service Catalog, CMDB in Service Now.  • Coordinates Service Catalog options, including cart controls, two-step checkout, and variables.  • Involved in developing workflow customizations and performing quality assurance testing and user acceptance testing.  • Developed user interface elements for Web-based applications based on program specifications using JavaScript.  • Responsible to provide a semi-managed service for administering their Service desks that has been implemented including various administration tasks within Service desk software.  • Worked on and worked on creation/modification of reports and procedure using PLSQL in Crystal report designer.  • Coordinates installation of Service Now upgrades and/or service packs. Develops and 'manages the preparation of systems, test criteria and control for upgrades, service packs and new functionality, enhancements or error correction.  • Establishes and maintains effective communications with customers, other technology specialists, and vendors about services.  • Documented all implementations and best practices defined within team.  • Trained Service Desk team and organized meetings to review content and testing efforts for testing in UAT for quarterly releases.  • Quality Compliance of all Deliverables to Client, mentoring the team act as liaison between process team and the technical team.    Environment: ServiceNow ITSM tool, Java scripts, REST, Workflows and HP quality center, SDLC, HP ALM. India Software Developer Quadrant eBusiness Services February 2014 to December 2014 Responsibilities:  • Developed UI using HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Worked on a Business layer using C#.Worked on Data Access Layer using ADO.Net framework to fetch data from Oracle10g.  • Created tables and written stored procedures, packages in Oracle 10g.  • Used JavaScript for client-side validations.  • Performed Unit Testing by writing Test cases. Used XML, XSL/XSLT and Xpath for data transmission and retrieving data.  • Configured multiple Catalogue Items Front-end web / GUI components using JavaScript, SOAP, Web services, CSS, HTML5.  • Creating Knowledge articles to document the steps in creating the catalogue items.  • Worked on CMDB and Asset management.  • Creation of Email Notifications and Inbound Actions.  • Development of SLA for the organizations Implementation of ACL.  • Working on JAVASCRIPT, AJAX, and GLIDESCRIPT to run Workflows, Business Rules and UI Polices.  • Coordinating the instance upgrade activities.  • Development of Service catalogue which includes creating new catalogue items, designing workflows and execution plans.  • Participated in the full software development life cycle: Analysis, Design, Coding, Testing, Training, and Operational Support.  • Used SCRUM/Agile development methodology.  • Executed Load and Automated testing using Visual Studio Team System.  • Written SQL queries, optimized stored procedures, modifications to existing database structure as required per Oracle10g.    Environment: C#.Net, ASP.NET, Classic ASP, XML, Oracle 10g, ADO.NET, Web Services, HTML, JavaScript. Education Master of Computer Application in Computer Application Andhra University 2008 Bachelor of Science Andhra University 2005 Skills C++, Git, Html, Javascript, Scripting, Xml, Sql server, Sql server 2005, Oracle, Sql, Ajax, Css, Eureka, Tomcat, Web services, Weblogic, Eclipse, Java, jquery, Sdlc Additional Information Skills:  Languages: C, C++, Java, HTML, XML, JavaScript, SQL.  Databases: Oracle 9i,10g,SQL Server 2005,08  Software Methodologies: SDLC, Waterfall, Agile    Scripting: JavaScript, HTML, jQuery, CSS, Ajax, and XML.  Operating Systems: Windows, Unix, Linux  Web/App Tools: Apache, Tomcat, Git-Hub, WebLogic  IDES: Eclipse, Toad.    ITSM Tools: ServiceNow Calgary/Dublin/Eureka/Fuji, Manage Now, ITSM Suite, HP Service Manager, HP Asset Manager, and BMC Remedy. Imports, Jelly, Web services, Reports, PDF, Macros, Mid Server.    ServiceNow Modules: Incident Management, Problem Management, Web Services, Change Management, Service catalog, Service Level Management, Data Loading, BMC Remedy and CMDB.