Developer <span class="hl">Developer</span> Developer - CRISIL • 3.10 years of experience in Information Technology, with skills in all aspects of Java technology solution implementation, development & maintenance.  • Exposure to all stages of Software Development Life Cycle from Requirement Analysis to Deployment and Production Support.  • Extensive work experience in Java, J2EE technologies, including JDBC, Servlets, JSP, and Hibernate, Spring, Spring MVC.  • Experience with Object-Relational Mapping (ORM) tools like Hibernate 4.x and Java database connectivity mechanisms like JDBC.  • Implemented/participated in MVC for various enterprise projects. Utilised the features provided by Spring framework extensively in various projects for MVC architecture.  • Highly motivated self-starter with outstanding problem solving & analytical skills and quality focused  • Hands on experience in J2EE Design Pattern. Work Experience Developer CRISIL November 2017 to Present Team Size 4  Environment App Server Spring, Hibernate, JSP, Java Tomcat7  Duration November 2017 - till Date    Description:  This project has different master and transaction screen. Transaction screen is used for performing transformation upload configuration, upload data into the database and generating reports. All these reports are generated using master screen. Respective generated report has been submitted by ABK to the CBK  (Center Bank of Kuwait) on quarters basis.    Responsibilities:  • Involved to design UI & validations using JavaScript.  • Implemented Controller Classes.  • Written Spring Service Interface and their implementation.  • Written DAOs and their implementation With Hibernate.  • Written Hibernate Mapping Documents.  • Fixing Bugs and Worked on CR as per Domain and Client Requirement    Project #2 WEMA (Retail) CPS Software Engineer CRISIL - Mumbai, MAHARASHTRA, IN July 2015 to Present (Nigeria) Developer CRISIL September 2016 to October 2017 Team Size 8  Environment App Server Java, Jsp, Hibernate, SpringMVC Tomcat  Duration September 2016 - October 2017    Description:  Wema Bank is a large financial services provider that has been in the banking business continuously for the past 65 years. It is the oldest indigenous commercial bank in Nigeria. This Bank involved in amount for various purposes like Personal Loans, School fee loans, Credit card loans, Waas loans, etc. The company requires different level of analysis regarding loan amount type of customer type of payment schedules, interest calculation, etc. This system is required to extract, transform and load data from the different client system into a relational table environment that can be accessible for reporting purposes .A set of reports will be developed against the relational tables to deliver the information to its customer in the form of PDF files.  Responsibilities:  • Added new sub-modules to Master, Transaction and Document Configuration  • Binding data in UI level using Angular JS and HTML 5.  • Involved to design UI & validations using JavaScript.  • Mapping back end with business logic using Hibernate as persistence framework.  • As Part of coding worked on Controller, Service and DAO Layers.  • Fixing Bugs and Worked on CR as per Domain and Client Requirement    Project #3 WEMA (Corporate) CPS CRS' Internal Rating Solution July 2015 to August 2016 Description:  Credit Processing System (CPS) is a Loan Origination System designed to assist a bank or financial institution in automating the lending process from origination to pre-disbursement verification and includes sanctioning. CPS provides immense operational advantages of automating a high volume credit origination and appraisal segment such as Retail and SME as well as the corporate segment. The web based platform can allow users to configure their own rating scorecards for evaluating loan applications of borrowers. The strategic benefit clearly is the possibility of significant growth in origination volumes as well as the ability to keep a close watch on the overall quality of the portfolio. CPS can be implemented along with Risk Assessment Model - CRS' Internal Rating Solution.    Responsibilities:  • This system is used for providing loans to corporate.  • Have developed modules for Banking Exposure  • Have developed modules for Track Record.  • System is under UAT phase.  • Have developed module for customer Information. (Nigeria) Developer CRISIL 2012 to 2012 Environment App Server Java, Jsp, SpringMVC, Hibernate Tomcat Education BCA PTU 2014 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Operating System Windows XP, Windows 7  Languages Java, SQL, PL/SQL  J2EE Technologies JDBC, Servlets, JSP  Application/Web Servers Apache Tomcat  Frameworks Hibernate, Spring  Tools Eclipse, Maven, SVN