Full-stack Software Developer Full-stack <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full-stack Software Developer Nashua, NH Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Full-stack Software Developer Fidelity Investments - Merrimack, NH February 2017 to July 2019 ? Supported, developed, and tested on nine applications for the Money Market Trading technology team, on which  1.2 trillion dollars are traded per week  ? Built an Angular6 web application to allow traders to modify funds' properties and cash amounts  ? Engaged in design discussions and user testing meetings with the end users (traders)  ? Participated in scrum activities including sprint planning and backlog grooming sessions to break apart business  cases into Jira stories and tasks Software Developer - Leap Program Fidelity Investments - Raleigh, NC September 2016 to February 2017 Improved various technology skills during two month training phase  ? In following three month phase, coded in Angular2 to create a web app for the Fidelity Health Management  Group, which allowed users to sign in and view their health insurance policies Assistant to Project Manager, Intern EMC Corporation - Southborough, MA June 2015 to August 2015 ? Through the IT Leadership Program, supported team managers in the oversight and organization of business unit  testing for Propel, a new SAP-based software to replace legacy Oracle environment  ? Planned and provided direction for testing by coordinating with managers, team members, and business units  ? Created and reported metrics to convey progress of testing results from business units; this tracking was essential  in end-to-end testing to ensure software was ready to go live in 2016 Junior Programmer, Intern Griffiss Institute, Air Force Research Laboratory - Rome, NY June 2014 to August 2014 ? Programmed in Java, creating algorithms to embed/extract hidden images and videos from media  ? Worked in the Cross-Domain Information Security sector in a team to design modular and refactorable code to use for steganography Website Developer, Intern General Control Systems, Inc - Troy, NY June 2013 to June 2014 ? Developed and implemented a new company website using HTML, CSS, and JavaScript  ? Worked independently to develop numerous alternatives for management review and selection  ? Retained as an external consultant to modify website based upon changing business requirements Education Bachelor's in Computer Science Syracuse University - Syracuse, NY August 2012 to May 2016 Skills .NET (Less than 1 year), Android (Less than 1 year), CSS, Eclipse, HTML, Java (2 years), JavaScript, Jira (2 years), Linux, Rest (2 years), Scala (1 year), Splunk (2 years), SQL, UNIX, Visual Studio, XML, MySQL, HTML 5, Postman (2 years), Sourcetree (2 years), Front-End, Angular, Front End, UI, Angular, CSS3, Front-End, Front End, Node, UI, Bootstrap Awards Summa Cum Laude 2016-05 Graduated from Syracuse Univerity with a 3.65 GPA Certifications/Licenses Certified ScrumMaster (CSM) June 2019 to June 2021