PHP Web Services Programmer PHP Web Services Programmer Software Developer Hayward, CA I’m a recent Computer Science grad with almost 2 years of experience as a Software Developer at DXC Technology, and 3 months of volunteer internship experience as PHP Web Services Programmer at MaintStar.    Agile and Waterfall model Experience. Vast knowledge of Data-structures and Algorithms.    I am someone who takes responsibility for their actions and when things go wrong I don’t look to outside forces to blame. Rather, I logically analyze what happened, how the situation could have been handled more effectively and determine how to prevent the mishap from going forward.    Reach out to me on my email or phone: ksodha93@gmail.com or +1 (657)445-8893. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience PHP Web Services Programmer MaintStar - Irvine, CA June 2018 to September 2018 · Studied the existing PHP Web Services, as needed. Created new PHP Web Services using REST API.                         · Created new Unit Tests, using curl. Executed the tests to debug the web services.  · Utilized standard utilities which help in creating web services. Proposed new Web Services as the need arises. Software Developer DXC Technology - Mumbai, Maharashtra September 2015 to July 2017 • Recommended product configurations to assist with overall system design and integration.   • Consulted with and compared solutions with, other product development teams, vendors to ensure consistent product   • solutions. Provided insight and advice to customers concerning applicability of specific products and technologies.   • Configured, implemented, provided SIT/UAT and production support, and product launch activities to meet client needs.  Education Master's in Computer Science California State University - Fullerton, CA August 2017 to May 2019 Bachelor's in Computer Engineering University of Mumbai - Mumbai, Maharashtra August 2011 to June 2015 Skills ANDROID STUDIO (Less than 1 year), API (1 year), C# (Less than 1 year), PHP (Less than 1 year), MySQL (1 year), Javascript (1 year), Java (3 years), Python (1 year), C (Less than 1 year), C++ (1 year), COBOL (2 years), HTML 5 (1 year), CSS3 (1 year), Db2 (2 years), As400 (2 years), Tableau (Less than 1 year), Git, CSS, LAM (1 year), Spring Boot (Less than 1 year) Links http://linkedin.com/in/kashyap-sodha http://github.com/kashyapsodha Additional Information Technical Competencies:    Programming/Web/Scripting Languages: Java, Python, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, PHP, C++, C, COBOL, C#, Swift     Databases: MySQL, DB2, MongoDB    Platform: Mac OS, Windows, Linux    Frameworks and APIs: Django, Flask, Spark, Twitter API, RESTful API    Software Packages/Tools: Eclipse, MS Visual Studio, MS Office, MATLAB, AS400, SMART 400, Business Objects, Postman, JSON, PyCharm, Kibana, ElasticSearch, numpy, matplotlib, tweepy, Jupyter, Octave, Tableau, Bugzilla, FileZilla, SourceTree, Git, Github, BitBucket, Brackets, IntelliJ, Balsamiq Mockups, XAMPP, LAMP, Android Studio, Xcode, React Native