Substitute Teacher Substitute Teacher Substitute Teacher - Framingham Public School District Framingham, MA • Strong knowledge of software development cycle.  • Excellent computer and typing skills  • Excellent Analytical skills  • Highly energetic and passionate to deliver best for every task  • Exceptional attention to detail and accuracy.  • Able to multitask efficiently.  • The ability to follow instructions  • Quick-learner and self-motivated  • Being able to work to tight deadlines  • Excellent communicator who is known for creating and maintaining positive relationships Work Experience Substitute Teacher Framingham Public School District September 2018 to Present • Created a classroom environment that is conducive to learning and appropriate to the maturity and interests of students.  • Assisted student(s) under the direction of a Classroom teacher.  • Assisted the classroom-teacher in daily classroom activities, help special needs students, and care for their physical, emotional health and safety while affirming their abilities. Customer Service Associate Kohl's Framingham October 2016 to May 2018 • Provided fast and friendly customer service in an incentive-based environment.  • Operated check-stand equipment: cash register, scanner to process customer orders  • Engaged in suggestive selling  • Processed monetary transactions including Cash, checks, gift certificates, coupon, and refunds  • Actively Listens to customer's needs to provide solution and/or product recommendations  • Encourages customers to explore products and Introduce customers to new products Software Developer Anish Infotech - Ahmedabad, Gujarat January 2006 to January 2008 EMPLOYMENT PROJECT DETAIL:  • Project Title: Crystal Report Generation  It provides customized report making facility to its desktop clients. Main objective of this system is making database from client file, decoding encoded data and save them to database. This system is user friendly and fully customized.  Tools: VB.Net, MS Access, Crystal Report XI  • Project Title: Aptitude & Technical Examination  This application is used at the time of Interview Process. Candidate has to pass the exam before interview.  Tools: VB.Net, Oracle  • Project Title: Timesheet Management System  This application is used to keep track of the time of (i.e. time in/out and break hours) company's employee and also the expenses made by them for accounting purpose.  Tools: VB.Net, Oracle  • Project Title: Shop Management System  Shop management is the application which maintains the inventory of the shop. Customers' and Suppliers' information is maintained in database. Purchased and sold items records are maintained. User can easily access these records. Also perform various tasks like add, delete or edit these records in the database. The application generates the reports as the inputs are specified.  Tools: VB.Net, Oracle, Crystal Reports.    PERSONAL DETAIL Education BACHELOR OF ENGINEERING in INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY Nirma Institute of Technology, Ahmedabad, Gujarat, India - Ahmedabad, Gujarat 2006 Skills Teaching