Pipeline Technical Director Pipeline Technical Director Pipeline Technical Director ? Software developer with a strong understanding of Computer graphics & visual effects pipeline  ? 6+ years of coding experience shared between the IT & VFX industry  ? Masters degree in Computer Animation & Visual Effects from Bournemouth University, UK  ? Specialties include programming in Python, Qt/PyQt & C++ and writing tools for Maya & Houdini  ? Previously worked as a Pipeline TD for Double Negative Visual Effects before going on Maternity leave. Work Experience Pipeline Technical Director Double Negative Visual Effects February 2017 to July 2017 Designed and implemented a tool for layout artists to pass geometry information to other departments like lighting and FX in Maya, Houdini & Clarisse there by avoiding the need to manually update them.  ? Wrote validation checks for Maya scene files as a way to check the files before publishing them to the next  department there by avoiding publishing of incorrect or incomplete scene files.  ? Provided support to artists in various departments by troubleshooting scene files, render job errors, publishing issues in Maya, Houdini, Clarisse(Lighting tool) & Tractor(Render Farm Manager)  ? Other responsibilities included writing file transfer rules for moving files from one site to another, moving  tools from old shows to new, triaging tickets in JIRA(Issue tracking system) Software Developer (Technical Director) Reel FX Creative Studios March 2016 to December 2016 Developing scripts and tools for efficient movement of assets across the production pipeline using Python & MEL  ? Wrote a custom Maya outliner that would read and display alembic nodes along with the Maya nodes with the ability to search and select while being in sync with the Maya outliner.  ? Worked with another developer on a scene update tool that would merge in the updates coming from upstream departments  ? Providing support for 3D packages such as Maya & Nuke and other in-house software. Junior Programmer Pipeline, Database March 2013 to March 2014 Implemented a cross-platform image manipulation tool with an easy-to-use PyQt-based UI for dailies  generation  ? Designed and developed database entities such as tables, views, stored procedures, functions and triggers  using MySQL for multiple in-house applications  ? Created an online dashboard for Leads and Supervisors containing daily, weekly and monthly summary of shot information and artist data reports designed with XML, HTML5, CSS and XSLT  ? Designed and developed a tool for Leads and Supervisors to review artists' performance using Python, MySQL and PyQt  ? With other developers, designed and implemented a web-based artists' activity monitoring system using  Django  ? With other developers, designed an asset management system for moving files efficiently across our  network Software Engineer ( Developer/Tester - Business Intelligence) Infosys June 2009 to July 2011 Worked on a reporting tool for Microsoft which provided information about projects, consultants utilization, average rates needed for their monthly business reviews using MS SQL server and MS Excel.  ? Provided quick fixes for issues in the production environment  ? Co-ordinated with overseas team on a regular basis to ensure effective solution delivery  ? Optimized various queries in the database to improve the overall performance of the application Education Master of Science in (M.Sc), Computer Animation & Visual Effects Bournemouth University - Bournemouth 2011 to 2012 Bachelor of Technology in (B.Tech), Information Technology Coimbatore Institute of Technology - Coimbatore, Tamil Nadu 2005 to 2009 Skills C++, Git, Python, Maya, Ms sql server Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/akilaln88