Noida as Sr. Software Developer Noida as Sr. <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Noida as Sr. Software Developer - Compunnel Technology India ltd US To work with Challenging assignments in Web & software Development, Project Execution and Software Testing with a growth oriented organisation and to obtain a responsible and challenging position with a progressive company where my work experience will have valuable application and utilization of my opportunity for advancement.    BRIEF OVERVIEW    • An IT professional with 9 year of experience in coding, Planning & Co-ordination, Quality and Web Development. Currently designated as Sr. Software Developer with Compunnel Technology India Ltd. at Noida.    • Hands-on experience in ASP.NET 2.0/ 3.5/ 4.0, MVC 3.0/4.0,C#, JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS, XML, HTML, AJAX, and Database Concepts through various academic projects.    • Good exposure to each of the phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), developing projects from stage of concept to full implementation    • Strong in backend database development including designing, writing stored procedures, SQL and triggers for MS SQL Server    • Good communication skills with the ability to adapt quickly to new and challenging environments    • Strong experience in system, design, analysis, implementation, testing, development, and maintenance of business applications using N-tier architecture    • Capable of working under tremendous pressure and meeting tight delivery deadlines    • Strong analytical, logical, and problem solving skills Work Experience Noida as Sr. Software Developer Compunnel Technology India ltd October 2016 to Present Key Result Areas  • Project management and programming including team.  • Maintaining all the coding standards while creating code.    Key member of various projects , the details are as follows:    • Project Name: Merrick Bank Settlement System    Project Details:  The Settlement System is an automated system used to balance funds going in/out of the bank due to merchant acquiring activity. Merrick Corporation is a financial institution that processes card payments on behalf of a merchant. Merrick has acquiring Bank business and it deals with ISOs (Independent Selling Org.) and global card brands such as VISA, MasterCard, Discover, Etc.    Platform: MVC 5.0, AngularJS, SSRS, WebAPI, JQuery, Entity Frame work, SQL server 2012    Roles & Responsibilities:  • Working as a Sr. Software developer on Daily, Monthly, ISO, Residual Settlement Result  • Create Use-cases, Module research & development, Client Communication (Functional Requirements), Responsible for UI and Responsible for Client Releases  • Key Skills used: SOA, ASP.NET MVC 4 & 5 (.NET 4.5), C#, WCF, Web API, Unity of Work , Generic Repository Pattern, Dependency Injection (Simple Injector), SQL SERVER 2012, JQuery, JavaScript, Underscore Js, Angular JS (Basic), LINQ, AJAX, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, Windows Schedulers, GIT.    Team Size: 12 Members  https://merrickaccounting.compunnel.com    • Project Name: Goa University (IUMS Product)    Project Details: Goa University.  Platform: MVC 5.0, AngularJS, MongoDB, WebAPI, JQuery, Entity Frame work, SQL server 2012    Roles & Responsibilities:  • Working as a Sr. Consultant, member of project architecture in team and also including Database design and business logic creation. Assign task to other developers and manage the project with project manager.  • Involved in handling the Development/Enhancement/Maintenance work requests.  • I have created Dynamic Sync (MongoDB to SQL). (Reading data from OpLogs ReplicaSet).  • Created Dynamic CRUD operations using of Reflection and Repository Pattern  • Created Database logger and Error logger and Activity Logger in MongoDB  • Created Window workflow for long running activates (Procurement Process System)  • Created a Dynamic search  • Analyzing the requirements of the work requests & performing impact analysis.  • Responsible for coding the element using MVC and C#.  • Preparation of detailed designed, Code Review, Test plan, Test case & Test result.  • Preparation of project plan, Estimation for the work requests.  • Database design and business logic creation  • Assign task to other developers and manage the whole project with my project manager.  • Daily meeting with developers and team leader.    Team Size: 35 Members    • Project Name: Garda Pre-employment screening services    Project Details: GW Pre-Employment Screening (Garda) is recognized as the most trusted and leading Canadian owned and operated provider of background screening solutions.  There are two type of user account A) Company B) Retail.  Company system will bulk payment on single account for recruitment process. Retail accounts manage/pay their invoices through service owners or manual. In Retail Account, Fill in the registration form and click on link found in the email sent to you to activate your account. Now user will be activate user. In Retail admin  Services functionalities for both accounts are Education Verification, Nation Criminal Record, Reference, Employment Verification, Professional Accreditation, Driver Abstract, Psychometric Assessment and etc. User will have to purchase the service accordingly via individual or retailers. It is in 2 languages French and English. .Resx file are being used to handle multiple language working.    Platform: MVC 4.0, WCF, JQuery, Entity Frame work, SQL server 2010    Roles & Responsibilities:  • Worked as a software developer and my role was to create whole architecture of project including Database design and business logic creation. Assign task to other developers and manage the whole project along.  • Created a Signature pad with Jquery  • Involved in handling the Development/Enhancement/Maintenance work requests  • Analyzing the requirements of the work requests & performing impact analysis.  • Responsible for coding the element using MVC and C#.  • Preparation of detailed designed, Code Review, Test plan, Test case & Test result.  • Preparation of project plan, Estimation for the work requests.  • Database design and business logic creation  • Assign task to other developers and manage the whole project along with client communication (skye text chat).    Team Size: 4 Developers in India and 2 in Canada.    https://e-xpresscheck.garda.com/  https://test.gardaonlineservices.com/evite  https://test.gardaonlineservices.com/devemp/    • Project Name: Tenancy Application    Project Details: This is a real-estate website for tenants, where user can register as tenant and send an application for rental properties to registered property managers or agent. There is separate section for property manager where they can send approval or declined mail to tenants and also manage the whole application. Main object of the site is to reduce un-necessary paperwork for tenants and property managers.    Platform: MVC 4.0, Enitity Frame Work, SQL Server 2010, JQuery, Entity Frame work, JavaScript    Roles & Responsibilities:  • Worked as a software developer and my role was to create whole architecture of project including Database design and business logic creation. Assign task to other developers and manage the whole project along.  • Involved in handling the Development/Enhancement/Maintenance work requests  • Analyzing the requirements of the work requests & performing impact analysis.  • Responsible for coding the element using MVC and C#.  • Preparation of detailed designed, Code Review, Test plan, Test case & Test result.  • Preparation of project plan, Estimation for the work requests.  • Database design and business logic creation  • Assign task to other developers and manage the whole project along with client communication (skye text chat).    Team Size: 2    http://www.tenancyapplication.com.au/    • Project Name: Teaminindia websites    Project Details: These are core website of Dotsquare. User can view and get knowledge about dotsquare and hire a developer    Platform: MVC4, Enitity Frame work 5.0, C#, AJAX, CSS, MS-SQL Server 2008    Roles & Responsibilities:  • Worked as a software developer and my role was to create MVC architecture of project including Database design and business logic creation. Assign task to other developers and manage the whole project along.  • Involved in handling the Development/Enhancement/Maintenance work requests  • Database design and business logic creation  • Created a admin panel where we can set Dynamic Email configuration, Manage Call Back Requests  • Created clone of Teaminindia    Team Size: 1  URL: http://www.teaminindia.co.uk  http://www.teaminindia.com  • Project Name: Primehangout    Project Details: Prime hangout is free social networking website that allows registered users to create profiles, upload photos and video, send messages and keep in touch. It is also provide a real virtual mall where individuals as well as existing retail businesses could open a store and sell to millions of people on this incredible social platform.    Platform: Asp.net, Web service, JQuery, Javascript , SQL Server 2010    My Role: In this application I worked as a developer and my role was to create whole architecture of project including Database design and business logic creation. Assign task to other developers and manage the whole project along with client communication.    Team Size: 3 Developers    URL: https://www.primehangout.com    • Project Name: Super Miss London    Platform: ASP.NET (3.5), C#, AJAX, CSS, MS-SQL Server 2008 on Windows    Project Details: SuperMiss (London) Limited, is a leading UK importer, exporter, wholesaler company for ladies fashion.    My Role: In this application I worked as a developer and created database and written code. Create and manage admin panel and develop the their website.    Team Size: 1    URL: http://www.supermisslondon.com    • Project Name: Autryx    Platform:ASP.NET (4.0), C#, AJAX, CSS, MS-SQL Server 2008 on Windows    Project Details: Online system for Vehicle loan system. Multi user application with access modules. It has modules like: Mange Vehicles, Deals, Manage Payments, Reporting, Admin etc.    Team Size: 1    URL: Local Intranet    • Project Name: BeattheBrochure    Platform: ASP.NET (3.5), C#, AJAX, CSS, MS-SQL Server 2008 on Windows    Project Details: Travel booking website    My Role: In this application worked as a developer and written code, Task was assign by Team leader. I have created pages according to the requirements.    Team Size: 3    URL: http://www.beatthebrochure.com    • Project Name: MLM    Platform: ASP.NET (2.0), C#, AJAX, CSS, MS-SQL Server 2008 on Windows    Project Details: MLM is multilevel Marketing project. In this Project Chain System is followed .Each Customer to join that is known as Member as Each Member has had a one Sponsor. This is a Web based Marketing Software. The Software 'MLM' facilitate number of different modules like Customer Registration, Different Income Generation Like Binary Income, Growth Income, Level Income etc., SMS Integration Module, Cheque Printing modules etc.    My Role: worked as a developer and written code and manage database.    Team Size: 2    URL: http://www.authenticvision.net/default.aspx    • Project Name: ITINERARY Management    Platform: ASP.NET (2.0), C#, AJAX, CSS, MS-SQL Server 2008 on Windows    Project Details: This project is basically planed for tourist who want to plan visit many place .and provides other services like hotel, guide, Taxi booking and also other services.    My Role: In this application i worked as a developer and written code and manage database.    Team Size: 2    • Project Name: OnLine Exam    Platform: ASP.NET (2.0), C#, AJAX, CSS, MS-SQL Server 2008 on Windows,    Project Details: Online-test solution. Exam Software is a Test Management Software, which offers a complete solution for Computer Based Test (CBT) we can create our own unique Tests in any language and administer the Tests. Exam Software keeps all the records of conducted exams, score reports and Student Answer Sheets.    My Role: In this application i worked as a developer and written code and manage database.    Team Size: 2    Other websites:-    http://findbeawar.com/  http://www.prernafoundationsanshthaan.com  http://www.infofixsolutions.com/  http://www.discountbazar.biz/Main/Home.aspx  http://www.r4recharge.com/index.html  http://electionsoftwares.com/ Education work and Leadership Shishu Bharti Sr. Sec. School affiliated 1999 M.C.A. in Master of Computer Applications Kota University B.C.A. in Bachelor of Computer Applications Makhanlal chaturvedi University Links http://shivkumarsingh.net Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Programming Languages: C#  Database: SQLServer2000/2005/2008/2010/2012  Web Technology: Asp.net 4.5, Ado.net, Java Script, JQuery, Ajax, xml, Angular JS  Server: IIS Server    Other Skills: Web API, LINQ, Entity framework, SSRS, WCF  IDE: Visual Studio 2008/2010/2012/2013/2015  Architecture Known: Three Tiers, MVC 2, 3, 4, 5(Razor Engine)  Design Pattern: Singleton, Factory, Abstract Factory, Prototype, Repository Pattern  Framework Knowledge: Dot.Net Framework 2.0/3.5/4.0/4.5  Version Control: SVN, TFS, GitHub, BitBucket    AREAS OF EXPOSURE    Project Execution  • Interfacing with Project Leads for assessment of client's requirements & finalisation of technical specifications.  • Adhering to plans & schedules, attending team meetings for individual projects.  • Interacting with team members to ensure smooth progress of project work.    Planning & Co-ordination  • Handling design and development of Software Applications.  • Participating in system integration, debugging and troubleshooting of the application.  • Extensive testing to ensure bug free software operations.  • Co-ordinating for smooth implementation of the project at client location. Extending post-implementation, application maintenance and technical support to the client.    ORGANIZATION EXPERIENCE