Backend C++ Developer Backend C++ <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer Los Angeles, CA I am a systems programmer. I enjoy the development and decomposition of complex systems. I am versed in C, C++, Java, Go, Python, JavaScript, and React. I am very interested in algorithms and computer networks. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Backend C++ Developer Crown Sterling LLC - Newport Beach, CA January 2019 to Present I analyze requirements and design, develop, and implement software applications for multiple systems. I gather requirements and conduct interviews with stakeholders to build software. Develop core technology and middle-ware using C++ and Go. I manage small team of Dev Ops Engineers to deploy highly distributed project on AWS using EC2 instances. Build APIs from the ground up. Convert mathematical schematics into software projects. I work with encoding, compression, serialization, and optimization algorithms. I use multi-threading, serialization, and compression methods to improve performance, improve time complexity, and reduce the space complexity of our system. Lead Developer Geometric Meltdown - Los Angeles, CA January 2015 to Present Geometric Meltdown is a 2D, multiplayer, fighter. The objective is to knock opponents off the stage. The higher the damage, the further they fly. This game currently runs on both Windows and Linux Platforms. This version of the game was redesigned to focus on optimization, sound object-oriented design, and adaptability. Software Developer Intern International Fleet Managment - Long Beach, CA January 2018 to December 2018 I worked with an international fleet management company to develop a prototype to automatically detect damage to fleet vehicles. I offered advice on the ideal conditions to establish ideal conditions in the photo booth. The prototype was built using C++ and OpenCV. Head Tutor Kegley Center for Student Success August 2015 to June 2017 Tutored computer science, mathematics, and humanities. Managed multiple collegiate athletics teams and harnessed available resources. Managed team of tutors. Prepared lesson plans to meet goals identified in students' individualized study plans. Collaborated with students to complete homework assignments, identify lagging skills and correct weaknesses. Undergraduate Researcher California State University, Bakersfield - Bakersfield, CA August 2015 to June 2017 Worked with STEM researchers to test and develop interdisciplinary computational models and algorithms. Built mathematical models and prepared projects and reports. Used C, C++, Fortran, and MATLAB. Education Master of Science in Computer Science California State University - Long Beach, CA August 2017 to December 2018 Bachelor's in Computer Science California State University - Bakersfield, CA August 2015 to June 2017 Bachelor's in History Cal State Fullerton - Fullerton, CA August 2008 to May 2013 Skills Calculus (3 years), Math (3 years), Tutoring (4 years), Android (3 years), C++ (4 years), Git (3 years), Go (1 year), Python (1 year), Java (3 years), C (4 years) Links http://linkedIn.com/in/erickortiz67 http://eortiz.net Awards Sportsmanship Award (Coaching Staff) - Junior All American Football 2014-11 I, along with my fellow coaching staff, recieved the Sportsmanship Award for maintaining our discipline on the field, respecting players, referees, and players. San Gabriel Valley Conference Champions, Junior All American Football 2014-11 Charter Oak, JAAF, took the Championship game against the undefeated Pico Rivera. Upon our first encounter with Pico Rivera, 6 week before, we lost 28-0. However, we kept working hard. We upset Pico Rivera and became Conference Champions. I played my part as the offensive line coach.