Script Developer & Software Validation Engineer Script <span class="hl">Developer</span> &amp; <span class="hl">Software</span> Validation Engineer Script Developer & Software Validation Engineer - Cienet Technologies Over 3+ years of experience in Information Technology industry including Software Quality Assurance Manual testing of web-based, client-server, and embedded infotainment software providing testing services in financial and automotive industries. Seeking to pursue a demanding position where I can utilize my experience, expertise and help maintain and deliver quality software products. Work Experience Script Developer & Software Validation Engineer Cienet Technologies - Warren, MI February 2017 to Present Develop and modify Python scripts for automation testing.  ? Work on production Vehicle for feature testing and find bugs.  ? Create new test cases according to requirements.  ? Fix the bugs and defect in the software and test it.  ? Write new scripts in XML and Python for quality software.  ? Execute test cases across multiple platforms and builds.  ? Report and log issues into a bug tracking system, including track files and necessary steps to recreate.  ? Sent Can message using different tool like Neo-Vi-fire, Rad-Moon etc.  ? Work with teammates to ensure assigned test cases are completed on time.  ? Ensure status and communication reports are detailed, comprehensive and accurate.  ? Flash Intel CSM.  ? Run automation and debug scripts.  ? Automating testing using selenium.  ? Functional and Automation testing. Software test Engineer TD Ameritrade - Ann Arbor, MI February 2016 to January 2017 Contribute to departmental metrics and governance standards  ? Perform Q.A Software functional testing and focus on regression testing on websites and portals after updates/modifications  ? Ensure compliance with TDA policies and procedures  ? Stay current with technology and industry best practices to ensure the organization itself stays current  ? Manual Functional, Regression, Automation and End to End testing of Web services, Web-based & desktop applications.  ? Establish and monitor internal policies to mitigate risk of poor quality delivery  ? Work with cross functional teams to conduct post mortem and root cause analyses when deployments are problematic or result in high severity defects post production  ? Partner with peers and management team to continuously improve testing methods, process, and use of tools  ? Develop testing strategies and standards for the department  ? Provide appropriate status to QA senior management  ? Ability to escalate issues/concerns with senior managers and Q.A management  ? Actively review progress and content at every stage in the S.D.L.C  ? Ensure appropriate peer reviews for all test plans and test cases  ? Review results of peer reviews and ensure all peer reviews are documented and the correct follow-up takes place  ? Review daily Q.A release status reports  ? Report status weekly to senior manager and team lead  Other Skills: Fluent in speaking Bengali, Hindi and Urdu.  Vice-President of BSA(Bangladesh Student Association).  Secretary of Bangladesh Association of Michigan  Public Relation of Cricket Association of MI, USA Education BS Computer Science Wayne State University - Detroit, MI 2017 Associate of Computer Science in Computer Science Macomb Community College - Warren, MI 2014 Skills LINUX, BUGZILLA, JIRA, SELENIUM, SELENIUM WEB DRIVER, HTML 5 Additional Information Technical Skills:  Databases: MS Access, SQL  Languages: HTML, XML, VB, SQL, ASP.NET, C++, C#, Linux, Java  Software: MS Office, JIRA, Bugzilla, HP Quality Center, STMS, Selenium web driver  Networking PC/Server hardware, operating systems, networking in Local Area Network, Wide Area Network, and local/network printer.  Hardware Active Directory, Blue PiraT, Vector CAN, TeraTerm