Project Information Specialist I Project Information Specialist I Project Information Specialist I - AECOM Woodside, NY Well versed in multiple languages and frameworks. A motivated problem Solver with an aptitude for debugging and error solutions. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Project Information Specialist I AECOM - New York, NY August 2018 to Present -Performed Quality Assurance and Quality Control testing on several applications and projects  -Contributed in daily standups and meeting with suggestions on how to improve the company product/project.  -Performed code maintenance and documentation with the use of C++, HTML, CSS and Javascript.  -Implemented server side of database with SQL.  -Handled Civil Engineering, Electrical Engineering and Structural duties.  -Performed AutoCad and Microstation duties on several projects including Outfront Media digital screen installations on NYCT MTA Stations.  -Performed Inspection duties on several projects including new NYCT Transit Fare  -Shadowed several Project Managers to understand the daily engineering operations and processes Software Developer Freelance August 2016 to Present - Built several responsive front-end websites with HTML, CSS, and Javascript  -Built several iOS applications with Swift  - Implemented server side of website using Python, SQL, Flask and Django  - Proficient in C++ and Java languages  - Performed code maintenance and documentation  - Integrated Java support to several Android applications  - Diagnosed and fixed bugs/crashes Software Engineer Intern Beeback.io January 2018 to January 2019 - Performed QA testing on Android and IOS applications before releasing new updates.  - Helped with Web and IOS applications for better UI/UX experience.  - Assisted in web application bug fixing.  - Contributed with tech-team in daily standups and meeting with suggestions on how to improve the company product. Education Bachelor's in Computer Science Western Governors University - Salt Lake City, UT February 2019 to Present Bachelor's in Psychology, Minor in Computer Science Queens College City University of New York - New York, NY August 2013 to June 2018 Skills C++ (2 years), DJANGO (2 years), FRONT-END and BACK-END (3 years), PYTHON (2 years), FLASK (2 years), SQL (3 years), iOS Swift (3 years), MYSQL, Android(JAVA) (2 years), Git, CSS, HTML 5, Javascript, Android Links http://facebook.com/Jayson.Valderrama http://github.com/JaysonValderrama360 Additional Information EXPERTISE    SQL  iOS Swift  C++  Python  JAVA(Android)  Front-End and Back-End  Django/Flask