UX Developer UX <span class="hl">Developer</span> UI/UX Developer Langley, WA Six years experience coding and designing websites, web apps, and email campaigns focused mostly on Shopify and Shopify Plus. I've worked on development teams, and solo. Positions Include in-house, and remote roles. Favorite tools: Sketch, Adobe XD, Photoshop, Git, HTML5, Liquid, CSS3, and JavaScript. I've recently been exploring GraphQL and React. Working on teams, I'm typically considered as someone bridging gap between design and code, able to create clean, responsive, and performant UI code. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience UX Developer Grizzly & Poppy - Seattle, WA October 2018 to Present Founded my own tiny startup specializing in modern web design and development for online retail. Frontend Web Developer ShopPad Inc - Oakland, CA September 2017 to October 2018 Working on a development team, built custom Shopify Themes, designed UI prototypes, and coded the frontend of many popular apps in Shopify's App Store. Utilized Git & Github. Software Engineer Ambry Genetics - Aliso Viejo, CA February 2016 to August 2017 Coded HTML5, CSS3, and JavaScript on a Git and JIRA-based development team. Worked closely with designers to architect and develop internal applications and Ambry's public-facing websites. Shopify & WordPress Developer 24-7 Talent, Inc - ORANGE COUNTY, CA, US February 2015 to September 2015 Worked as a contract (in-house) web developer specializing in Shopify & WordPress. Coded custom websites, landing pages and HTML Emails. Web Designer & Developer Vitamin - ORANGE COUNTY, CA, US July 2014 to January 2015 Contracted as a web designer and web programmer. Created branding from scratch all the way to website and deployment. Managed, designed and coded HTML emails for high-volume campaigns (250,000+ subscribers daily). Education Bachelor's Skills CSS (5 years), HTML (5 years), Javascript (2 years), Liquid (5 years), Shopify (5 years), Wordpress (3 years), React, Front End, UI, Front-End, Jquery, HTML5, Bootstrap, User Interface Links http://www.sean-orfila.com