Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer - London Computer Systems (LCS) Cincinnati, OH Work Experience Software Developer London Computer Systems (LCS) May 2017 to Present Develop the middle tier business logic components for a property management/finance planning software using .NET  framework that interact with the database and processes all the data for the presentation layer to display and also involve with APIs and services.  • Experience in developing N-tier distributed .NET applications using custom user controls to provide standard interactive  user interfaces. Good knowledge of .NET Framework features including Reflection and Metadata. Work with Infragistics  controls extensively.  • Update existing and create new reports using Active Report and database interaction.  • Gather business requirements and converted it into SQL stored procedures for database specific projects.  • Give out code peer-review for other developers. Software Developer Co-op Topic Design January 2017 to April 2017 • Provided full-stack Ruby on Rails design and back-end administration for web applications.  • Liaised with user interface (UI) designers and product managers for multi-phase project.  • Configured WordPress complex interfaces and themes and provide web applications audits.  • Managed code with unit tests and GitHub. Software Developer Co-op Matson Money January 2016 to August 2016 • Contributed to design and development in Agile software lifecycle of client and server database applications.  • Utilized .NET languages in re-designing, upgrading and maintaining websites and web services.  • Planned and implemented dynamic/online electronic commerce applications like Salesforce, Cvent and GP Dynamic.  • Performed and developed functions and scripts on mySQL databases assisting System Administrator.  • Developed and utilized test plans/scripts for assigned projects using Zephyr and Jira  • Participated in the interviewing process for future co-op candidates. London Computer Systems (LCS) April 2015 to August 2015 • Designed and implemented automated testing tools and programs.  • Utilized SQL (Oracle/Microsoft) to create/edit functions/views/tables.  • Conducted formal and informal product design reviews. London Computer Systems (LCS) August 2014 to December 2014 • Used testing software to enhance the quality of tested function.  • Investigated arising incidents caused by malicious activities; and identified false activities.  • Documented software defects using custom bug tracking system. Education Bachelor of Science in Information Technology in Software Developer Track University of Cincinnati - Cincinnati, OH 2012 to May 2017 Skills .net (2 years), Ajax (Less than 1 year), Api (Less than 1 year), C# (Less than 1 year), Java (Less than 1 year), Javascript (Less than 1 year), Jira (Less than 1 year), Jquery (Less than 1 year), Load/stress (Less than 1 year), Microsoft access (Less than 1 year), Model view controller (Less than 1 year), Model-view-controller (Less than 1 year), Ms access (Less than 1 year), Ms sql server (Less than 1 year), Mvc (Less than 1 year), Sql (2 years), Sql server (Less than 1 year), testing (Less than 1 year), Vb.net (Less than 1 year), MYSQL, CSS, Git Additional Information SKILLS  Development Testing Languages  RoR / C#.NET / VB.NET / Java Regression & Negative Testing English  JavaScript/JQuery/AJAX Performance/Load/Stress Testing Vietnamese  .NET MVC with API Data Interface & Migration Testing  SQL Server/MS Access Jira Software / Zephyr Application