Summer IT Intern Summer IT Intern Summer IT Intern Irving, TX Innovative Software Developer with expertise in Python, PHP, C#, JavaScript, HTML5 and CSS. Technical professional adept at full software development lifecycle with 3+ years of experience. Enthusiastic about and quick in learning new technologies and working in both team and self-directed environment. Work Experience Summer IT Intern HPE May 2018 to August 2018 • Developed solutions to accelerate the acquiring of required data for unique web applications that comprised of HTML, JavaScript, CSS, .NET and C#  • Developed a Rest API as search engine to fetch all the Active Health data from the servers to understand the events and issues  in the system for the developers to rectify it.  • Utilized MVC principals to ensure clean architecture.  • Wrote and edited professional-level documents for Active Health Log application. Software Developer Gamut Business Solutions - Pune, Maharashtra November 2015 to June 2017 • Developed landing pages, dashboards and web applications using PHP, JavaScript, AngularJS, CSS and HTML5 scripting.  • Researched new technologies, phases of Software Engineering for use in website applications.  • Analyzed requirements and designed, developed and implemented software applications for multiple websites.  • Maintained close communication with the UI/UX team to strengthen product quality.  • Also experienced in building websites in WordPress. Software Developer Intern nStigate Technologies - Pune, Maharashtra January 2015 to May 2015 • Met with software developers of the company on weekly basis to provide detailed project report and milestone updates.  • Developed a web application using object-oriented software, including PHP, MySQL, Bootstrap, CSS and HTML for use in business industry.  • Documented all software development methodologies in technical manuals to be used by software developers in future  projects.    THESIS RESEARCH  • A cloud-based system for the prediction of Heart disease using Machine Learning Algorithms and Data Mining Methods  developed on AWS cloud.  • The Machine learning algorithms that are researched are a combination of Decision Tree and Multilayer Perceptron using  Stacking Algorithm in Python and Flask using AWS RDS and EC2 services and HTML as front-end development. Education Master of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science Texas A&M University May 2019 Master of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science University of Pune June 2015 Bachelor of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science University of Pune June 2013 Skills .net, Amazon web services, Android studio, C#, Javascript Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/tanvi-bansod