Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer - CALLENS CAPITAL INC Astoria, NY Callens Capital owns several domains that they are building sites for. I work mostly on askmrfranchise.com which is a site targeting franchisors to advertise to potential franchisees. I helped build a dashboard for the franchisors to track how their listing page is preforming. It tracks mainly page views and information requests. However, the dashboard also includes financial tracking, analytic tracking, custom newsletters and ad placement on our site. I also aided in building the front end of the site as well. It's a WordPress site so am very good with WordPress. The dashboard was built with PHP/MySQL, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap, HTML and CSS. Work Experience Software Developer CALLENS CAPITAL INC - Manhasset, NY July 2018 to Present Callens Capital owns several domains that they are building sites for. I work mostly on askmrfranchise.com which is a site targeting franchisors to advertise to potential franchisees. I helped build a dashboard for the franchisors to track how their listing page is performing. It tracks mainly page views and information requests. However, the dashboard also includes financial tracking, analytic tracking, custom newsletters and ad placement on our site. I also aided in building the front end of the site as well. It's a WordPress site so am very good with WordPress. The dashboard was built with PHP/MySQL, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap, HTML and CSS. Software Developer CMR & ASSOCIATES - New York, NY September 2017 to May 2018 CMR & Associates was an insurance startup. The company's mission was to find clients the best-fit property/casualty and retirement insurance for clients. I built parts of the front end of the site like a company search and the landing page. I also managed the site updates too. This is also a WordPress site. I also built a CRM system for the company salesmen to keep track of their sales (insurance companies they were trying to get to partner with us). It was a list of leads that were individualized to each salesman, and features allowing them the highlight warm leads and to set call/email back reminders. This system was built in PHP/MySQL, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap, HTML and CSS.  Jr. Developer SIGNATURE BUILDING SYSTEMS - New York, NY November 2016 to May 2018 Signature Building Systems is a fire alarm company providing equipment and testing to many NYC high-rise buildings. I aided a team in building software to help the fire alarm technicians in the field. The team built a web app that allowed technicians to log their work daily and have a portal to put any building-specific issues. I also worked some on an in house PMA(Preventive Maintenance Agreements) management system that helped the in-office team keep track of agreements and make sure they were produced on time. Education BACHELOR OF SCIENCE in INFORMATION SYSTEMS MANAGEMENT New York University - New York, NY 2018 Skills C#, Git, Html, Javascript, Bootstrap, Json, Php, Laravel, Database, Database design, Sql server, Mysql, Sql, Java, jquery, Css, Security, Apache, Linux, Cyber security, HTML 5, Android Additional Information SKILLS  PHP CSS  MySQL JSON  Linux(Ubuntu and Kali) Google Cloud  Apache Azure  WordPress Agile Project Management  Laravel Database Design  PHP Unit Version Control (Git/GitHub)  JavaScript Some Java and C#  jQuery SQL Server  Bootstrap Cyber Security  HTML