Software Engineer <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer East Bay, Student Assistant McLean, VA • Pursued Master's in Computer Science at California State University - East Bay.  • Have hands on experience in design and development of Java, J2EE, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, XML, Java Script, HIBERNATE 4.0, SPRING, PL/SQL, SQL..  • Experience in RDMBS such as Oracle, MySQL and postgreSQL  • Developed various academic projects using latest technologies.  • Excellent communication and inter-personal skills. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Software Engineer Freddie Mac - McLean, VA January 2019 to Present Working as a Java Developer. Java/J2EE Developer Infoworld Software Solutions December 2015 to May 2016 is a complete solution for used car dealers to manage their individual car and overall profit/loss accounts. It keeps record of all your purchases done from either Dealerships or direct customers. It keeps a track of any expenses done on the vehicle and also the list of all service providers and their accounts maintained. It maintains list of all vehicles w.r.t the brands maintained. It maintains the list of insurance expiry of current stock vehicles. It gives complete cash book, bank book, day book with all flexibility for different search criteria. It maintains all financiers data and their accounts. It provides all different possible to search vehicles data and business contacts' data. EDealer is a complete solution for used car dealers wherein we have a desktop application, a web app and mobile app. The main focus is to maintain the accounts for these dealers and maintain all records of direct and indirect expenses incurred in office or on vehicles. Each vehicle individual profitability and overall business P/L is computed based on input records.  Duties include:  • Involved in the complete SDLC for multiple applications (individual projects).  • Designed, developed, debugged and tested the web based application using the J2EE architecture.  • Hands on development in Java based and UI forms and database objects.  • Worked on Maria Databases and wrote SQL queries as well as stored procedures for the application.  • Involved in developing code for obtaining bean references in spring framework using Dependency Injection (DI) or Inversion of Control (IOC) using annotations.  • Used Spring validation and wrote validation rules.  • Implemented Spring ORM with Hibernate taking advantage of Java features like annotation metadata, auto wiring, and generic collections using plain EJB3's JPA specification that is used to implement the DAO layer with Hibernate Entity Manager's Session Factory and SQL. Developer Infoworld Software Solutions - Karnal, Haryana May 2014 to May 2016 Karnal, India  Projects Java/J2EE Developer Infoworld Software Solutions November 2014 to December 2015 Micron is a rice quality analysis software, mainly used to analyse physical characteristics of rice grain like length, thickness, whiteness index, color components, broken check to ascertain its quality. Micron has been serving industry through the most accurate results for rice quality analysis thereby saving time and manpower along with huge quality improvement in rice industry. It provides separate desktop interface for Lab and web interface for management to view scan reports on computer, tab or mobile screen. The target customers for this product are Grain procurement agencies(like FCI), Rice Mills, Rice Exporters/importers/traders/brokers, Research laboratories, Food Quality control laboratories, NBFCs and banks who provide funds on rice stocks. The product comprises of a desktop Java-FX and spring MVC application which basically performs the scans of rice samples.  Duties include:  • Involved in various phases of SDLC mainly in requirements gathering from rice millers.  • Creating DAO and business services for entire application.  • Project was developed following Agile and Scrum methodologies.  • This also uses restful API to render the results on desktop browser and mobile app.  • Creating entities framework using JPA and maintaining its interaction with other layer services through Spring Data JPA.  • Managing security of application through spring security Developer Sebiz Infotech Pvt Ltd - Mohali, Punjab January 2013 to June 2013 Mohali, India  Duties include:  • designing code and modifying websites;  • creating website layout/user interface by using standard HTML/CSS practices;  • coordinating with web designers to match visual design intent;  • integrating data from various back-end services and databases;  • evaluating and identifying new technologies for implementation.  Environment: Java, JDBC Template, Servlets, Spring MVC, JSP, Hibernate, Java Mail API, AJAX, HTML, XML, Eclipse, MySQL. Education Masters in Computer Science California State University East Bay January 2017 to June 2018 Masters in Computer Science Guru Nanak Dev University August 2013 to June 2015 Bachelor's in Computer Science Guru Nanak Dev University August 2009 to June 2013 Skills JAVA (1 year), DATABASES (Less than 1 year), ANDROID (Less than 1 year), C++ (Less than 1 year), JAVASCRIPT (Less than 1 year), J2Ee, Java J2Ee, Spring, Rest, Hibernate Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/vikramjeet-singh-guraya-0097b4130 Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information Technical Skills  Programming Languages: C, C++, Java  Query Languages: SQL, PL/SQL  Web Languages: HTML, CSS, JavaScript  Databases: SQL, MySQL, PostgreSQL  Tools: Eclipse IDE, GitHub, NetBeans, Android Studio.