Cyber Security Engineer Cyber Security Engineer Cyber Security Engineer - MITRE Nashua, NH Hardworking security engineer offering 2 years of experience. Highly efficient, productive and reliable.  Seeking to help companies meet their goals. Work Experience Cyber Security Engineer MITRE 2017 to Present Collaborated with my team to plan, develop and implement fundamental changes in an application we are developing to increase security on existing systems.    Altered, updated, and enhanced existing systems and applications after performing  troubleshooting measures to determine the issue.    Collected data for the analysis and optimization of system and network performance.    Installed network software and hardware, checking to see if repairs or upgrades were needed.    Performed network analysis and monitoring to maintain network performance.    Trained users on how to properly use the hardware and software to ensure accessibility and usability.    Analyzed end user needs to provide service-level software development.    Excelled in application evolution and maintenance of technological challenges.    Hardening Linux and Windows systems to improve security    RHEL/CentOS hardening and verification of hardening    Ensure OS and application compliance with STIG requirements It Intern Capital Investigating 2015 to 2016 Brought out of date system protocols into compliance with industry standards and applicable  regulatory guidelines.    Maintained informational and electronic security of the company through implementation of best practices.    Added users to necessary networks and assigned as well as updated security permissions as needed.    Encrypted data transmissions and built layers of firewalls to protect confidential employee and client information.    Made sure all data storage and email systems were in proper working condition.    Upgraded and repaired computer network software and hardware. Junior Software Developer TeamEDA 2015 to 2015 2015  Designed new software applications by using object-oriented languages.    Developed software lifecycle products from vision through successful deployment.    Analyzed end user needs to provide service-level software development. Software Developer Intern Single Digits Inc 2014 to 2015 Designed, managed, and updated web applications for various departments in the organization.    Acknowledged customer issues and resolved their problems quickly and efficiently.    Conceptualized end user scenarios to anticipate areas of concern.    Logged software defects using proprietary defect tracking system.    Subjected software to methodical testing to identify functionality defects. Education Computer information systems University of New Hampshire at Manchester - Manchester, NH 2017 Skills C++, Git, Security, Unix, Unix shell, Chef, Puppet, Data structures, Version control, Java, Control systems, Integration, Security policies, Cyber Security, Nist, Information Security, Siem, Linux, Network Security, Python (2 years), AWS (1 year)