Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer - Pillar Innovations LLC Morgantown, WV Work Experience Software Developer Pillar Innovations LLC - Morgantown, WV April 2015 to Present • Worked in an agile software development environment delivering full web applications for customers and in-house projects, providing maintenance and implementing improvements to the company's internal portal, and developing mobile applications.  • Used Amazon Web Services and many of its applications thoroughly including S3, CloudFront, and others.  • Gained extensive knowledge in HTML, Javascript, ColdFusion, CFWheels, MSSQL, and numerous web languages and frameworks including AngularJS, NodeJS, and SailsJS. Intern, Delivery COE Mylan Inc - Morgantown, WV May 2014 to August 2014 • Constructed a digital, interactive training experience with Articulate Storyline, Presenter, Quizmaker, and Engage, used to introduce new employees to company IT policies. Intern White Caps Creative Group - Parkersburg, WV May 2013 to August 2013 • Acquired knowledgeable use of Adobe Dreamweaver and HTML, including style sheets, graphics arrangement, and interactive elements in order to construct various websites for a range of customers.  • Attended various client meetings to provide input, suggestions, and observe client-company interaction. Education Bachelor's in Computer Science West Virginia University - Morgantown, WV August 2011 to December 2014 Skills APPLICATION DEVELOPMENT, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, IONIC, CSS, Android, Git, Jquery, HTML 5, AngularJS (4 years) Additional Information SKILLS:  Web Application Development  ? Extensive knowledge in utilization of HTML, Javascript, and CSS, as well as a number of Javascript libraries and plugins including jQuery, AngularJS, and Ionic.  ? Knowledge of MSSQL database/table construction and manipulation.  ? Created numerous fluid, responsive web applications for product landing pages, data aggregation, timecard tracking, and a perpetually syncing database data manager.  Development in Object-Oriented Languages  ? Knowledge of recursion, inheritance, polymorphism, object creation, and data structures.  ? Created a Java program to simulate a bank complete with general bank functions. Mimicked a SQL database using hashmaps to hold tables.  Other  ? Experience in numerous group efforts concerning software development and many life cycle models.  ? Knowledgeable use of Lex and Yacc in conjunction with C to parse text for multiple functions, including census searches and text-based adventure games.