Software Test Analyst <span class="hl">Software</span> Test Analyst Software Test Analyst - Cerner Corporation Kansas City, MO 2+ years of software testing experience in creating, supporting, and utilizing manual and  automating tests. Developing experience as a student Software developer for the National  Driving Simulator for the University of Iowa had duties such as maintain the company website  and working with a team to develop the most efficient process to create code in each  component. Work Experience Software Test Analyst Cerner Corporation - Kansas City, MO 2016 to Present • Performing automated testing with experience designing, implementing, and maintaining automated tests to facilitate testing of our Applications.    • Created and aided the creation and execution of manual, automated, and exploratory  testing, utilizing a risk-based testing process.    • Developing and maintaining testing process for a Connect Nursing Application that  allows nurses to sign medications, review new items placed for a patient, and review  patients charts quickly. Student Software Developer University of Iowa - Iowa City, IA 2015 to 2016 • Assisted in driving simulation GUIs.    • Managed and maintained the company website.    • Proficient in object-oriented programming in java and python.    • Developed, tested and debugged code while designing interfaces and administering  systems. Information Technology Consultant University of Iowa - Iowa City, IA 2015 to 2016 • Assisted in troubleshooting and resolving basic PC, server, printer issues.    • Completed projects involving software technical documentation and computer  imaging.    • Experienced in using troubleshooting for Microsoft Windows and Mac operating  systems Education B.A in Computer Science University of Iowa - Iowa City, IA 2016 Skills Java, Eggplant, Jira, Rational, Quality manager, SQA Assessments Problem Solving — Proficient July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to analyze relevant information when solving problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/u55xhbcccpcuojci Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information SKILLS  • I am currently experienced in Eggplant Functional, IBM Rational Quality Manager,  IBM Doors Next Generation, JIRA, Java, and Domain testing.