OFSAA Senior Software Developer OFSAA Senior <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Oracle Financial Services Analytical Applications (OFSAA) Consultant Blaine, MN ? 14+ years of professional experience in various IT Industries across Banking and Telecom.  ? Around 3 years of experience in OFSAA (Oracle Financial Services Analytical Applications previously known as Reveleus in I-flex) Business suite solutions like EPM (EPM- Enterprise Profitability Management (ALM, ALM BI, PFT, FTP), ERM-Enterprise Risk Management (Basel, LRM, and MR), and FCCM (AML, Alert/Case Management, KYC, Regulatory Reporting, Lombard Agile Reporter).  ? Proficient in data migration Activities, metadata migration across all environments and slowly changing dimension (SCD) component.  ? Expert in OFSAA objects development, business rules configuration, ESIC module shell scripting, and PL/SQL development for OFSAA objects and configure/customize OBIEE reports.  ? Gathering business requirement from Business and converting business requirement in to technical requirement.  ? Experience in OFSAA, ETL, Data-warehouse with strong knowledge on SQL and PL/SQL  ? Expert in Migrating the OFSA 4.5 to OFSAA 8.0 & installed and implemented the suite for various clients.  ? Experience in setup external sources in Oracle Data Integrator for OFS DIH (Data Integration Hub/ Handler) and pulled financial data from OFSDF module.  ? Experience in implementation of OFSAA and production support for various clients.  ? Expert in Agile (SCRUM), Iterative and V, SDLC and Test Driven Development Methodologies.  ? Strong knowledge of Object Oriented Programming (OOP) concepts including the use of Polymorphism, Abstraction, Inheritance, and Encapsulation.  ? Experience in data mapping and validation in Logical and Physical layers using OFS DIH Connectors.  ? Experience in configuration/mapping between ADI (Application data interfaces) and EDD (external srs).  ? Expert in writing SQL queries to validate the data loaded in the target tables and business rules at different databases like Oracle, SQL Server, HDFS, Hive, Teradata and DB2.  ? Proven ability to work efficiently independently and in team work environments, excellent communication, interpersonal, intuitive and analytical skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience OFSAA Senior Software Developer ClarityTek, Inc. March 2017 to Present A Proven professional from Oracle-OFSS-OFSAA Product Development Team with forward thinking, capable and committed senior lead with a proven ability to meet agreed deadlines, co-ordinate to work and work to define various methodologies within a structured environment. Lead and coordinated the various implementation teams across different geographies and expert in OFSAA knowledge on various old and new application suite for implementation of OFSA 4.5 to OFSAA 8+, having excellent leadership abilities and communication skills and provided guidance and advice to multiple teams. Education Master's in Computer Science Skills Oracle, Pl/sql, Sql, Uft, Jira, C++, Perl, Pro c, Scripting, Etl, Informatica, Olap, Oracle data integrator, Data integrator, Java, Shell scripting, Erwin, Http, Tivoli, Ab initio, OFSAA (5 years), Oracle Financial Services Analytical Applications (OFSAA) 8.0.5 (5 years) Additional Information Oracle Financial Services Analytical Applications (OFSAA) Consultant | Senior Software Developer