Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Back End Java Devloper Fort Mill, SC Helped create server side software that created dynamic letters from end to end, including the  creation domain specific data models, data mapping with custom converters, and dynamic letter  templates both in Thunderhead and from the ground up with Freemarker templating. Experience  working with json to create rules as well as data objects. Experience with creating testing suites for  QA as well as unit tests and integration testing.    Worked in a warehouse logistics helping create and maintain WMS/MFS systems designed to help  managed and track all aspects of a distribution centers. These systems are designed to capture key  data associated with a warehouse to provide a high level snapshot to assess the warehouse  performance as a whole as well as down to individual performance of workers. While working on  these systems I created JMS Topic Daemons to run background processes driven by event  messages. Designed and extended proprietary framework to add new functionality as per user  requirements. Implemented new interfaces to connect to 3rd party frameworks based off of given  requirements. Work Experience Software Developer SSI Schaefer Systems International - Charlotte, NC May 2018 to Present Supported large distribution warehouse for customers by contributing clean well written  code designed to meet customer requirements.  ? Model Driven Development  ? Support clean software codebase through self documenting code, resolving code defects in a timely manner, create new features based on code specification and system  requirements.  ? Work with proprietary software designed to automate large distribution centers.  ? Supported Kohl's online distribution center by developing new software based upon system documentation, developed solutions to high priority defects in a timely manner,  through testing of new features.  ? Design, implement, and test new product features within Eclipse IDE, using Java, Maven for dependencies, and Integrated tools in eclipse for deployment  ? Implementation of architecture requirements using complex system specifications,  input/output processes and working parameters for software integration.  ? Independently assess system performance against stated requirements.  ? Generates and reviews documentation and provide written and oral feedback on system  requirements, code level reviews and design, system design documents, critical design  review, integration, testing and other key development activities. Software Developer Speech-Soft Technologies llc - Charleston, SC February 2018 to Present Work with Business Analysts to flesh out requirements for new features  3    ? Work closely with Quality Assurance Engineers to do functional, regression, and smoke  testing of features  ? Design, implement, and test new product features within IntelliJ IDE, using Java and Maven for builds  ? Be responsible for writing automated test tools using JUnit and Mokito as needed to achieve total unit test coverage. Pool Technician Medow's Pool and Spa - Charleston, SC October 2017 to Present Perform pool maintenance  ? Regulate chemical levels the adhere to DHEC regulations  ? Ensure pool equipment is functioning properly HIE Onboarding Technician aVenture Technologies - Charleston, SC July 2017 to October 2017 Onboarding technician assisting private HIE's (Health Information Exchange) onboard to the eHealth Exchange platform to provide a better continuity of care for veterans between  the DoD, VA and private HIE's Pool Technician Medow's Pool and Spa - Charleston, SC May 2017 to July 2017 Perform pool maintenance  ? Regulate chemical levels the adhere to DHEC regulations  ? Ensure pool equipment is functioning properly Software Developer Booz Allen Hamilton - Charleston, SC December 2014 to April 2017 Work with Business Analysts to flesh out requirements for new features  ? Work closely with Quality Assurance Engineers to do functional, regression, and smoke  testing of features  ? Design, implement, and test new product features within IntelliJ IDE, using Java and Maven for builds  ? Developed new data models using XML to be used in the creation of dynamic pdf content.  ? Develop new dynamic pdf templates using Thunderhead to create XSLT templates    ? Transform existing XSLT templates to FreeMarker templates  ? Extracted and Transformed data from SOAP request to be Loaded into internal data  models using Dozer Mapping and custom Java converters    2    ? Be responsible for writing automated test tools using JUnit and Mokito as needed to achieve 100% unit test coverage.  ? Implementation of architecture requirements using complex system specifications,  input/output processes and working parameters for software integration.  ? Independently assess system performance against stated requirements.  ? Generates and reviews documentation and provide written and oral feedback on system  requirements, code level reviews and design, system design documents, critical design  review, integration, testing and other key development activities.  ? Apply Agile development methodologies for complex, state-of-the-art modules  ? Reviews test results and evaluates for conformance to design  ? Leverage existing test automation and write overarching unit tests to cover sections of project functionality  ? Be responsible for writing automated test tools, as needed, to enhance the productivity and capability of the test teams Education Bachelors of Arts in Computer Science College of Charleston - Charleston, SC August 2011 to May 2014 Associates of Science in Network Administration Horry Georgetown Technical College - Myrtle Beach, SC August 2007 to May 2009 Associates of Arts Horry Georgetown Technical College - Myrtle Beach, SC August 2005 to May 2007 Skills Java (4 years), Html (2 years), Jira (2 years), Jms (2 years), json (1 year), Maven (4 years), Soap (2 years), Sql (2 years), Xml (4 years), Back End Development (3 years) Awards Eagle Scout 2004-08 Obtained the rank of Eagle in Boy Scouts, also while in my scouting career I started as a Tiger Cub and walked across the bridge of light into boy scouting. I was also inducted into the order of the arrow. Assessments Critical Thinking — Familiar April 2019 Using logic to solve problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/fmmc-zmo3fhlowpf Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.