Software Automation Lead - Enterprise Retail Systems <span class="hl">Software</span> Automation Lead - Enterprise Retail Systems Software Automation Lead - Enterprise Retail Systems Redmond, WA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Automation Lead - Enterprise Retail Systems Kroger Co - Cincinnati, OH May 2017 to May 2018 ? Created plans, strategy, test cases and automation platform to enable both UI integration and back end testing for Kroger's enterprise POS retail systems. It not only improved the product quality and reduced the product release cycles but also made Kroger test developers 15% more productive and saved 6.5 million dollars by reducing the manual testing hours.  ? Modernized the automation platform by showcasing the benefits to the stakeholders and shifted Kroger's quality automation organization to modern technologies like Winium, WinAppDriver, Appium.  ? Developed automation frameworks (SDK) and establish infrastructure for creation of automated scripting following the Page Object Model (POM) using JAVA.  ? Evangelized the use of GIT + Bitbucket within the organization and established an organization wide GIT repository for sharing common automation code to enable massive scaling and easy code collaboration between developers.  ? Established the CI/CD pipeline in TeamCity for the deployment of continuous automation builds with proper build agents.  ? Interviewed, hired and onboarded 25 new high caliber automation engineers to fill open positions.  ? Coordinated Scrum teams (Agile) and DevOp groups to execute the best automation and deployment plans. Software Automation Developer - Automated Production Planning Kroger Technology - Cincinnati, OH May 2016 to May 2017 ? Worked with technical and business resources of Kroger's produce management applications to analyze and gather requirements to develop Automation test scenarios for end to end testing of UI, service and database.  ? Generated and maintained Automation test scripts using various automation test tools for mobile (iOS/Android) using Appium and web browser testing using Selenium WebDriver.  ? Developed modular automation framework using object-oriented programming methodologies (OOPS) and TestNG frameworks.  ? Prepared end user manual and internal documentation for developed framework.  ? Improved live site support by automating SOP battle cards into an automated recovery mechanism Angular Developer TravelCLICK - New York, NY August 2015 to May 2016 ? Designed and developed push notification infrastructure and integrated it with existing portal UI to showcase the notifications using a standalone SPA AngularJS widget.  ? Enhances web portal responsiveness by implementing custom client-side verification logic in the UI by building custom Angular JS messages modules  ? Developed Custom Directives functions to have a consistent user experience across the TavelClick products  ? Built high scale, highly available, distributed web service to enable notification functionality and exposed it via industry standard REST API and JSON  ? Worked on cross browser compatibility issues and fix the bugs pertaining to various browsers for the widget Software Developer Ezentech Pvt Ltd - Delhi, Delhi August 2012 to August 2013 ? Upgraded internal web site and UI using Java servlets and JQuery to improve search function and user interaction.  ? Gathered and analyzed client requirements, drew out business logic for current and future implementation. Education Master's in Computer Science University of Florida - Gainesville, FL August 2013 to May 2015 Bachelor's in Computer Science Birla Institute of Technology - Pilani, Rajasthan July 2008 to July 2012 Skills ECLIPSE, J2EE, J2SE, JAVA, jQuery (2 years), MSSQL, MVC, Angular JS (4 years), HTML5 (5 years), CSS3 (4 years), Dhtml (2 years), XML (2 years), XHTML (2 years), XSLT (2 years), Javascript (4 years), AJAX (2 years), AngularUI (2 years), JSON (3 years), Bootstrap (1 year), Jenkins (2 years), TeamCity (2 years), Selenium IDE (2 years), Selenium WebDriver (2 years), Selenium Grid (2 years), Firebug (1 year), SOAP UI (2 years), Cucumber (1 year), Appium (1 year), MS SQL (3 years), OracleDB (Less than 1 year), MySQL (3 years), Maven (2 years), Gradle (3 years), Git (3 years), BitBucket (1 year), IntelliJ (2 years), Visual Studio Code (4 years), Eclipse (6 years), Sublime (Less than 1 year), Webstorm (2 years), CSS, HTML 5 Awards High Performer at Kroger Co 2017-08 “High Performer” award given in Kroger’s CEO annual all hands meet for successful driving “Modernization of the Automated testing platform for Kroger’s legacy POS applications” “Rising Star” from Ezentech Pvt Ltd 2012-12 “Rising Star” from Ezentech Pvt Ltd. Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information ACADEMIC PROJECTS  ·        Software developer for Restaurant Reservation System  o  Developed the website as a Single Page Application (SPA) using Angular JS framework which consists of two separate modules for user and owner.  o  I also wrote complete REST API at backend using Java: JAX-RS (Jersey and Jackson) and MySQL for the required CRUD operations.     ·        Software developer for Apartment Management System  o  The project allows the administrator to manage resources, keep track of the residents, guests, with a key feature of sending notifications to the residents regarding services & charges due.  o  Developed web service on microservice framework and hosted it in Amazon AWS EC2 cloud environment