Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer - CYIENT LTD • Having experience around 4 years as Software developer in Design, Development and Implementation of Web based applications and Map based Clients using Java and other web Technologies.    • Developed applications using JSP, Servlets, JAVA, CesiumJS, JQuery, GE SmallWorld, Magik, Web Services, JavaScript, XML, CSS, HTML, RequireJS, Python.    • Basic knowledge on Kafka micro services.    • Team builder with strong, analytical and interpersonal skills with good knowledge in Agile (Scrum), Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).    Organization Experience Work Experience Software Developer CYIENT LTD October 2015 to Present Academic Profile. Education B.Tech in CSE Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University - Hyderabad, ANDHRA PRADESH, IN 2014 Additional Information Operating Systems Windows 10, 7, XP, Linux  Programming Languages Java, Magik  Web Technologies JSP, Servlets, Ajax  GIS Technologies Cesium, Leaflet Maps, Open-street Maps  Tools & Applications Eclipse, Visual Studio, EMACS  Database MySQL, PostGRE SQL  Markup & Scripting Languages HTML, Java Script, JQuery, Require JS, XML, JSON  Cascading Style sheets CSS, Bootstrap  Version Control Tortoise SVN, VSTS  Web Servers NPM, IIS, TOMCAT  GIS Tools GE Smallworld, EO Web    Professional Engagement Overview    Project Details:    Project (Current): Integrated IoT and GIS solution  Client: Cyient NBA  Technologies Used: Java, Servlets, JSP, Cesium, JQuery, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, Eclipse, Visual Studio 2015, IIS, TOMCAT and Windows 7.  Team Size: 18 Members  Role: Developer and Module Lead    Project Description:    It is a Cyient born and developed product. An integrated solution of IoT and GIS platforms which has power to connect all the devices over the city in various segments. Solution comprises of variety of modules which include 3D GIS, IoT, Safety and security, Urban/City planner, Disaster management with Emergency Response, City Mobility, E-Governance and Utilities etc., Every module is enabled with 3D maps which makes the platform next generation ready. IoT connects with different types of sensor placed across the city and helps the concerned bodies to monitor the noise, air, water pollutions and many other use cases with certain dashboards. This Platform helps the city governing bodies to function efficiently and smartly.    Role and responsibilities:  * Full stack development.  * Coding from framework level.  * Writing stored procedures and functions.  * Implementing coding standards and conducting audits.  * Sharing the work to the team of 6 and guiding them to complete the task.    Project #1: FiDOMS  Client: Cyient Velocity  Technologies Used: Java, Kafka, Zoo Keeper, JQuery, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, Maven,  Eclipse, Hexagon, ArcGIS and Windows 7.  Team Size: 10 Members  Role: Developer  Project Description:  FiDOMS is the integrated solution of Disaster & Operations management system and Field Operations management system. FiDOMS is a Cyient born product, which is customized and implemented according to client's requirement. FiDOMS helps in find floods, wild fires, tornados and many more natural disasters occurred locations as soon as they effect and help the government to estimate the manpower required and install the field crew. It enables the government to easily estimate the property loss and asset damage and it also informs the public/customers about the disaster forecasts. It helps the customers to find the safe places, hideouts and relief locations as soon as disaster occurs. FiDOMS has a module for social network integration which reads the data from variety of social network platforms through Kafka & Zoo Keeper and analyses data using Google NLP, also it is enabled with ML and AI for better understanding and user experience.    Responsibilities:    * Coding from scratch  * Writing stored procedures and functions, impact analysis    Project #2: Torrent Power GIS Implementation  Client: Torrent Power  Technologies Used: Java, JBOSS, JQuery, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, Eclipse, Magik,  EMACS, NPM and Windows 7.  Team Size: 20 Members  Role: Developer    Project Description    Smallworld is a powerful ecosystem which helps the utility companies to build their own GIS upon their assets with enabling to trace the network and public utility bills. Torrent Power Limited is an India-based company engaged in the electricity generation, transmission and distribution. Its current operations are in the states of Gujarat and Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh. The company is the sole distributor of electricity to consumers in the cities of Agra, Ahmedabad, Gandhinagar and Surat. Cyient has implemented GE Smallworld (Electric Office 434), Design Manager, EO Web and CYMDIST for the client Torrent Power Limited as per the Enterprise GIS solution proposed by Cyient for their electric/land data. EO-Web is a web solution for the Electric Office which works with Open layers concepts and helps the company to identify their assets, network, manage, trace and communicate with their customers. Sketching tool helps the company to take the new constructions and installations over their network very effectively. We have implemented many new tools which were only available in EO Desktop. Cyient has executed this project at client location to work closely with Engineer's & departments and match their requirements.    Responsibilities:    * Requirement's gathering and documentation (HLD, LLD)  * Coding from scratch  * Writing stored procedures and functions    Project #3: RAPDRP GIS implementation  Client: RAPDRP  Technologies Used: Java, JBOSS, JQuery, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, Eclipse, Magik,  EMACS, NPM and Windows 7.  Team Size: 12 Members  Role: Developer  Project Description:  Smallworld is a powerful ecosystem which helps the utility companies to build their GIS upon their assets with having to tracing the network and public utility bills. We has implemented GE SmallWorld (Electric Office 434), Design Manager and EO-Web for the client RAPDRP as per the Enterprise GIS solution proposed by Cyient for their electric/land data. EO-Web is a web solution for the Electric Office which works with Open layers concepts and helps the company to identify their assets, network, manage, trace and communicate with their customers. Sketching tool helps the company to take the new constructions and installations over their network very effectively. Assets finder tool is a simple query tool which can get all the information related to queried asset along with the location of the asset to display, This tool can consume different types of inputs such as spatial (area, trail, buffer) and non-spatial (id, name, address etc., ) data. Cyient has implemented many new tools which were only available in EO Desktop.    Responsibilities:    * Requirement's gathering and  * Writing stored procedures and functions.