Machine Learning Intern Machine Learning Intern Machine Learning Intern Chicago, IL Work Experience Machine Learning Intern IMANAGE LLC January 2019 to August 2019 Keywords: Entity Extraction, document classification, explaining non-linear models  • Experimented, built production models for text classification for legal documents at various granularity, including sentence and  token level using state of the art RNN (e.g. Bi-LSTM) models.  • Improved the existing entity extraction model to achieve 33.33% improvement by replacing the existing embeddings thereby impacting business for 3000 clients.  • Analyzed performance metrics of entity extraction task on 127,000 legal documents using various embedding like Glove, Fasttext, Elmo, Bert etc. Compared entity extraction model with existing systems like Watson, Spacy and AllenNLP for baseline  performance metrics (precision, recall, F1 score) at token and sentence level.  • Utilized SHAP and LRP to interpret and explain the relevance of predictions made by their RNN models to suggest 20% improvement in F1-score.  • Detected bugs in the preprocessing stage of poor performing entity extraction models that lead to 500% improvement over the initial F1-score. R&D Software developer intern IMANAGE LLC June 2018 to August 2018 • Collaborated with a team of 3 to develop a network monitoring and alerting system to check the health of the server using the Elastic stack (ELK) thus reducing system downtime.  • Automated the system to parse logs and collect OS level metrics of every client using metric beats and push to Logstash in main server, developed alerting mechanism using Elastic search queries in python to alert the administrator with worse performing API's for a given timespan and analytics with Kibana. Software Engineer -SAP CRM/ABAP Developer ACCENTURE SOLUTIONS PVT LTD September 2014 to August 2017 • Collaborated with a team of 50 people to create customer interactions and self-resolution portal for two medium scale utilities  industry (gas and electricity) with a client base of 1 million people for quick resolution of customer using SAP CRM.  • Streamlined the process of ticket resolution to save 10,000-man hours/ year for the client Education Master of Science in Computer Science University of Illinois at Chicago - Chicago, IL August 2017 to August 2019 Skills mongoDB (Less than 1 year), Natural language processing (1 year), Python (2 years), Machine learning (1 year), Deep learning (1 year), C++ (Less than 1 year), Computer Science, C, Algorithm, GCP (Less than 1 year), AWS (Less than 1 year), Elastic search (Less than 1 year), NLTK (Less than 1 year), Javascript, NoSQL (Less than 1 year), docker (Less than 1 year), Hadoop, Scala, Rest framework Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/akshay-uppal http://@TDS https://github.com/akshayuppal3 https://towardsdatascience.com/@akshayuppal3