Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer - Bank of America I'm a talented software developer who demonstrates:    ? Experience in analysis, development, testing in an agile environment  ? Dedication to finding the most efficient development solutions  ? Proven ability to utilize expertise to achieve winning business objectives that benefit customers  ? Passion towards learning and exploring next generation technologies. Achieved the following  certifications:  ? Pega Certified Senior System Architect  ? Pega Certified System Architect  ? An increasing ability to participate and provide leadership ability through initiatives that aim to  create a better culture and work environment for associates  ? Employee Engagement Committee Work Experience Software Developer Bank of America - Plano, TX June 2016 to Present Developed and supported Default Workflow, a loan modification application built w/ Pega  Platform, built on Java, that aimed to return defaulting home loans back to normal servicing.  ? Responsibilities included high quality software development, rigorous testing, release  support, and working across functional teams  ? Everyday communication with stakeholders, business partners, external teams to understand expectations and provide feedback to improve client experience.  ? End-to-end pega development experience, examples include:  * Configuring and building SOAP and REST integration along w/ appropriate unit testing.  * Enhanced a nightly agent's integration logic by factoring out activity logic into data  transforms. Also ensured that the borrower data is current by verifying if data was  changed in SOR and changing corresponding work objects accordingly.  * Researched, identified, and fixed any negative impacts/runtime errors due to JDK 1.8  update in 10+ mortgage applications  * Everyday utilization and experience with Oracle DB and SQL  * Enhanced UI to show Due Dates calculated in flow action logic  * Enhanced UI on Financial Summary screen to not display any questions or options based  off borrower responses.  ? Developed and supported FinPro, a profiling application that uses financial information  collected from the borrower to determine whether they qualify for home loan retention  options.  ? Part of a team that supported infrastructure changes for 10+ mortgage applications  ? Mentored and coached multiple team members in Pega and Business Flow logic  ? Involved analyzing application issues (often along end users and functional teams), identified root causes for these issues, and resolved them    2    ? Daily collaboration with stakeholders, product owners, and functional teams to meet  highly visible deliverables  ? Involved coding, testing, releases, and cross team collaboration  ? While training with the Pega Platform, I wrote a Purchase Request Framework that allowed  users to create purchase requests that would need manager's approval if request total reached  certain threshold, otherwise the order would reach fulfillment    Projects involved:  UI Design Data Manipulation    Data Management Report Design  Validations Data model design    User Access Configurations Workflow Design    Technologies used in tenure: Pega 7 Platform, Splunk, Oracle DB, SQL, Rally, SOAP UI, Java, Spring Framework, Hibernate Framework, Javascript, Angular, HTML    Employee Engagement Committee Member  ? Responsible for creating and coordinating employee events that help promote team building  ? Responsible for openly discussing any topics or concerns identified by associates  ? Responsible for developing action plans for resolving any concerns, presenting them to management for approval, and implementing them across the organization Software Developer Intern CBANC Network - Austin, TX January 2015 to July 2015 Designed RSS News Aggregator to fetch relevant financial news requested by members. Users selected  keywords and all articles were then fetched and displayed to member.    Technologies used in tenure: Javascript, HTML, CSS, NodeJS, CouchDB, GIT Education B.S. in Computer Science University of Texas at Austin - Austin, TX 2016