Remote Web Developer and Software Applications Programmer Remote Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> and <span class="hl">Software</span> Applications Programmer Remote Web Developer and Software Applications Programmer - Sunshine Wood Inc Morrow, OH Web Applications and Software Developer with strong SQL Database skills. Good communications skills and ability to work together or work independently and with minimal supervision to develop an outstanding product on time and on budget. Well rounded computer skills and programming. Primary focus on .NET with C# on the server side with great HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap & w3.css on the front end. I can adapt to other languages quickly and am a fast learner such as performing ColdFusion development for the Air Force Research Laboratory without any formal or previous ColdFusion training. Strong analytical skills with excellent ability to conceptualize and understand complex problems. Can think on my feet and out of the box. Can help drive a team or full stack solo. Experienced with SSMS v 17.5. Familiarity with many environments from engineering to factory and POS to production . Designed, created, implemented and maintained project management system in a production environment in a previously unfamiliar application. I enjoy applying my vast experience into a elegant solution with minimal resources and working with others and desire to continually learn and expand my knowledge. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Remote Web Developer and Software Applications Programmer Sunshine Wood Inc February 2015 to Present Contract Remote Web Applications and Software Developer.  Responsive mobile friendly HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, BootStrap & W3.css  C#, ASP.net, VB.net, PHP, SQL, MySQL, ColdFusion  Web Applications, WinForms Desktop Programs, Windows services and API interfaces.    Independent, motivated and organized. Available for daytime schedule or flex.    Experienced with multiple professional and business operations and industries, including interfacing internal  team members and front facing client communications. Previously owned small businesses including computer  consulting to a 5 location retail stores producing over 2.5 million a year.    Maintained and improved VB6 & VB.net (12y/o) legacy accounting application. Improved accuracy and optimized where possible while eliminating bloat and improving response and performance. Updated SQL  integration from SQL Server 2008, 2012 to SQL Server 2017, Updated and integrated current .net libraries from  3.5 to 4.6 to provide TLS 1.2 SSL, salted, SHA-256 banking integration.    Designed and developed order processing web presence for forward facing web application. Interfaced SQL and database intensive accounting package. Integrated Google Maps for real time distributed job assignment and job  completion tracking. This in house product improved tracking and efficiency and eliminated expensive monthly  subscription service and provided immediate real time client status notifications, increasing profits and customer  relations. This project processes thousands of transactions daily with minimal issues.    Administration and development of SQL database backup operations in Microsoft SQL Server Management  Studio to run in nightly backups with database cleaning and compression including off site storage.    Developed and maintained a SQL stored procedure library of several thousand various stored procedures from simple 5 lines to pages with complex business logic.    Complete design, creation and implementation of ESKO Automation Engine - Work flow automation from order  entry and creation to final print operations in a high volume large format printing business with locations on both east and west coasts. Took labor intensive order and print processing into the modern era and allowed 1 operator to generate print beds for over 6 full time printing shifts in a single day.    Create and maintained WAMP local host for PHP testing and development. Created and maintained IIS for websites in development and production environments.    CAD-CAM programming utilizing Alphacam and SCM Routech large scale table router.    Provided email and telephone support for win-forms and web based operations on both coasts.    Worked directly with management teams for project design, planning and budgeting.  5275 Venetian Morrow Ohio 45152  513-806-6877 | mjw9663@gmail.com Education Computer Information Systems, Computer Programming Truckee Meadows Community College 1984 Computer Information Systems, Computer Programming Grossmont Community College 1978 to 1981 Skills Javascript, PHP, Front End