Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer - YMF Inc New York, NY Work Experience Software Developer YMF Inc - New York, NY November 2018 to Present Developed product life-cycle management web-based and mobile applications to dramatically speed up the company's communication and product development time between employees and warehouses overseas.  ? Developed a compact front-end UI using HTML, CSS and ES6 JavaScript with libraries such as React.js with Type Script and Redux of a web-based tracking application related to outgoing and incoming product containers and shipments.  ? Created a content management system for web, Android and iOS platforms using React.js, React Native and Redux for designers and overseas manufacturers to facilitate communication over product design and reduce overall product development time.  ? Extended the company's in-house RESTful API using C# .NET Entity Framework Core with the MVC pattern by adding new functionality to data entities and created new microservices for all the business's applications.  ? Helped integrate the company API with identity provider services such as OpenID Connect and OAuth2 to enable user authentication and authorization for any application consuming the API.  ? Integrated notification services for the company's applications using Google Firebase for push notifications on the mobile app, and SignalR to handle notifications for the web app.  ? Created a time clock and PTO management application for all employees using React.js integrating the Office 365 API to fetch and update calendars for members and their teams. Software Developer Best Lawyers - Brooklyn, NY February 2016 to June 2018 Developed and maintained the company website and in-house applications working closely with the IT team  ? Built several of the data-driven and responsive pages on the company website using JavaScript frameworks such as jQuery, Kendo UI and Knockout.js.  ? Gained exposure to a variety of tools in the C# .NET Framework stack such as with Windows Forms, ASP.Net, ADO.Net and Entity Framework while working on the company's in-house data management application.  ? Communicated closely with members of the Publication, R&D and Design team to develop CMS applications to manage all the content uploaded to the company website.  ? Worked daily with source control tools like Team Foundation Server and Git to manage code and work tickets  ? Participated in daily SCRUM over the course of many sprints and vocally expressed daily progress or blockers with members across all the teams. Education B.S. in Computer Science in Computer Science The City College of New York - New York, NY August 2014 to December 2018