Senior Software Engineer Senior <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Senior Software Engineer Leominster, MA A top-performing full-stack software engineer, working primarily with web based applications using the .NET platform. Experienced in all aspects of the product development life cycle from development to deployment.    Programming Languages: C#, Java, JavaScript, SQL, HTML/CSS  Frameworks: .NET 4.5+, .NET Core 2.0+, ASP.NET/MVC, WCF, some WPF  IDE: Visual Studio 2013/15/17  Source Control: Team Foundation Server (TFS)  Skills/Strengths: Server Set-up (IIS), JQuery, Dapper ORM, Linq, Algorithm Design, Automated Testing (Selenium), Database Design, Stored Procedure Optimization Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Software Engineer LogixHealth - Bedford, MA August 2018 to Present U.S. Product owner for 6-8 applications of various sizes.  Strong record leading international teams to create quality applications powered by well formatted reusable code in an Agile environment.    General duties include product support, conducting code reviews on contributions of the two mid-tier staff members working on my team and extensive work prototyping potential new products and services.     Specific Projects Include:  • Product lead and SME on ASP.NET Core/MVC application for internal use. App facilitates the creation and flow of formatted B2B interchange files between our firm and hundreds of third party institutions.  Responsible for sprint scheduling, timeline management and code quality for the product. Team is international and distributed between the US and Vietnam.    • U.S. support lead on a WPF application. Application is a distributed system that served as a a platform for automating workflow and productivity tasks. Users could design process automations using a GUI and schedule tasks to run remotely on designated servers.    • Proof of concept application to investigate the viability of data mining from websites, documents and files for import into databases to eliminate manual data entry. Completed application is projected to save hundreds of work hours each week. Project utilized a backend windows service, data access with Dapper and a configurable regex mapping solution.    • Developed a "Shift Optimization" proof of concept  aimed at minimizing hospital costs associated with staffing. Used Google OR Tools and the principles of constraint optimization to determine optimal shift distribution and length to meet patient demand.  Software Engineer LogixHealth - Bedford, MA August 2016 to August 2018 Worked and collaborated with an international team to facilitate the development of Windows Services, Web Services (WCF) and ASP.NET/MVC applications.    Specific Projects Include:  • A backend windows service to coordinate the flow of data between the five other apps that make up the company's core product line of medical billing and coding systems.  All applications in the ecosystem were developed by disparate international teams. My app served as the single common point of contact between the applications.    • Developed B2B SOAP clients to consume third party API's as part of a larger product collaboration between our company and a startup based in Texas. Jr. Software Developer LogixHealth - Bedford, MA October 2014 to August 2016 Engineered web-based products, all layers including data access, database design, stored procedure creation and optimization, business logic, object design and user interfaces. Supported existing technologies, implemented bug fixes and maintenance and developed unit tests.    Specific Projects Include:  • Designed services for my firm’s payment processing site. The site allows patients to pay their medical bills and view invoices online. Site processes thousands of transactions a day. Site uses static HTML front end powered by AJAX calls to a layer of micro-services.    • Developed backend REST services for my firms website, using .NET’s WCF framework.    • Developed two ASP.NET/MVC apps and integrated them into the company’s flagship single-sign-on SAAS product. Education Masters of Computer Science University Of Massachusetts - Dartmouth June 2017 to Present Bachelors of Business Administration University Of Massachusetts - Lowell August 2007 to June 2011