Intern, Project Manager, Developer Intern, Project Manager, <span class="hl">Developer</span> Intern, Project Manager, Developer - Red Arrow Labs Milwaukee, WI Work Experience Intern, Project Manager, Developer i.c.stars Milwaukee - Milwaukee, WI April 2018 to Present Milwaukee, WI  ? Developed a winning proposal in response to an RFP issued by Red Arrow Labs.  ? Managed a web app project on a team of four people and responded to client needs  ? Ongoing client engagement to learn about project scope, goals and design options. Collector & Auditor Greenway Waste & Recycling - Milwaukee, WI April 2017 to Present Manage waste disposal for an apartment community and conduct audits to ensure satisfaction. Software Developer Dohmen Foundation - Milwaukee, WI February 2019 to June 2019 Worked 1:1 with the director of community investment to research and build business models.  ? Organized and evaluated data on potential partners for a new business concept.  ? Presented to the foundation president on the viability of potential organizational partners.  ? Freedom to build side projects to benefit the foundation and develop my coding skills. Software Development Intern Red Arrow Labs - Milwaukee, WI August 2018 to January 2019 Worked as a full stack software developer on a 4-person team that included UX designers, product  analysts and QA analysts.  ? Researched and evaluated third-party authentication tools such as Auth0 before building our own  user login authentication system for a web application.  ? Hands-on learning and application of Agile software development principles.  ? Collaboration with technical and functional staff to validate solutions for clients. Education High School Diploma Alexander Hamilton High School - Milwaukee, WI 2011 to 2015 Skills C#, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, NODE.JS, VUE.JS Links http://linkedin.com/in/carlos-vasquez-mke Additional Information Skills  HTML JavaScript Vue.js Node.js Agile Methodology    CSS C# SQL ASP.NET Razor Pages Bilingual (English/Spanish)