Program Manager Program Manager Technical Program Manager - Slalom Redmond, WA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Program Manager Slalom - Seattle, WA May 2018 to Present Business Intelligence expertise, working with the client requirements and providing BI solutions. Communicate and bridge the needs between customers and users. Gather requirements, orchestrate and manage the program progress. Tracking technical issues and find solution for the problem. Understanding data models, ETL Process, develop source to target mappings. Creating executive Power BI dashboards and reports, which illustrates the statistics, headcount, hiring status and future starts across the organization for stakeholders. Provide them with assistance of visualizing the data of a high-level model and make sure the program goals are met. Software Developer Inspur Inc - Bellevue, WA August 2017 to December 2017 Mining and developing a Chargeback document web browser tool which migrates the existing document and additional  data from COSMOS stream. The tools are being used by agents who are disputing chargeback cases, making  feature/function changes to improve their work efficiency. Work includes designing, code developing, bug fixing and documentation. Worked on Scope Scripts, Cosmos, Insights portals, according to client's needs. Report Developer Slalom - Seattle, WA November 2016 to May 2017 EllieMae Reporting is the new reporting system for the HomeStreet Bank lending process, HomeStreet Bank migrated from their old LQ.Net to new Encompass system. As part of the migration, create data models, ETL Process, develop source  to target mappings. Worked on creating SSRS reports on the new Encompass database, configured complex row grouping, drill down, sub reports. Collaborated with business, analysis, test and dev team following Agile Methodologies to deliver the  requirements with high quality. Data Analyst Allyis - Kirkland, WA April 2016 to June 2016 Worked with the Azure Marketplace team in creating BI Reports for assessment of client's subscriptions and usage from Cosmos. ETL to do data validation, developing self-checking, error catching, T-SQL Scripts to update production data. Interact with Clients and their dev teams to Onboard their services into the Azure Marketplace(ADM) and to help them with technical  solutions. Database Developer Lenora Systems - Bellevue, WA August 2015 to February 2016 Pharmacy Plus Network (PPN) is a Group Purchasing Organization (GPO) comprised of nearly 100 independently owned  pharmacies. Pharmacy Plus Network provides an innovative way for local pharmacies to optimize their effectiveness in their  communities and provide a higher level of services at more affordable prices. Sales, product and vendor information is fed in to system and the data warehouse solution provides a detailed reporting on revenue, inventory across vendor and product  information. Database Developer Tata Consultancy Services - India, TN, US February 2010 to July 2011 Payroll control System is a data warehousing and web-based application developed for the Payroll group of Citibank. The  SSRS Solution provides an interface for users to generate adhoc reports. The reports created are scheduled and are  generated by batch jobs. The system generates Daily/Monthly/ Quarterly/Yearly reports as well as adhoc reports for payroll  group. The Payroll Control application saves organization the costs of manually processing, printing, and mailing paper- based earnings, pay accounts and statements and brings process consistency. Education Bachelor of Engineering in Electronics and Communication Anna University Skills ETL, SQL SERVER ANALYSIS SERVICES, SQL SERVER INTEGRATION SERVICES, OLAP, POWER BI, Program Management, Project Management Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information Skills  Database: SQL Azure, SQL Server  Reporting: Tableau, Power BI, Power Apps, SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS), Excel Reporting.  Big Data: COSMOS  ETL Tools: SQL Server Integration Services  OLAP: SQL Server Analysis Services  Programming: SCOPE(COSMOS)