Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Engineer Bellevue, WA Developing, and maintaining web and client/server applications. Solid understand of data structure, algorithms, Object-Oriented Programming(OOPs) concepts. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Developer Heartland Payment Systems - Fairfax, VA November 2016 to Present • Developed code for new and existing software products using ASP.NET framework.  • Participated in code reviews, software design and development process using SourceSafe.  • Gathered and analyzed information and provides alternate solutions  • Develop and maintain internal software to support bring up of internal systems. Software Engineer American Institute for Research - Washington, DC October 2015 to October 2016 • Worked on requirement validation, development and deployment of different modules in TIDE, an open source online assessment system, a highly configurable and flexible web based system that displays the student score data in real time for over 9 states in the United States.  • Implemented Database First and used LINQ to Entities to message the Data and optimized the Query Expressions. .  • Created and maintained database objects like complex Stored Procedures, and Tables, Views.   • Installed, managed reports using SQL Server 2012 Reporting Services.  • Used SVN for all the source code maintenance among the whole team members. Software Developer Genesta LLC - Rockwall, TX June 2014 to May 2015 • Involved in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and identifying the requirements and defining the business rules to user requirements.  • Utilized a human voice recognition features for existing application, enable the client's enhancing productivity and reduce about 40% of training cost.   • Developed solutions for diverse programming scenarios in C#, employing object oriented Programming (OOP) concepts such as: encapsulation, inheritance, polymorphism, and abstraction.  • Involved in Abstract classes/Interfaces, Designed and developed Web Forms and Polymorphism in ASP.Net for Web development.  • Developed WCF Service Libraries and Web Services to exchange data between Desktop and Central Application and implement business logic.  • Utilized TSQL Stored Procedures, Database Triggers using SQL Server 2008.  • Generate, compare reports and modifying their layouts with SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS).. Software Development Engineer Citi Bank - Shenzhen, CN September 2010 to April 2011 • Developed dynamic web pages for Application using MVC (5.0), NET, HTML5, JavaScript, JQuery.   • Implemented Database First EDMX and used LINQ to Entities to massage the Data.   • Developed WCF web service and configured the web service with appropriate endpoints for consuming them in web application.   • Created and maintained database objects like complex Stored Procedures, Triggers, and Tables and Views.   • Installed, managed reports using SQL Server 2008 Reporting Services.  • Involved in understanding and transmitting the business requirements for the project, and translating these into functional specifications. Software Developer Heartland Payment Systems - Springfield, VA December 2016 • Developed software: specifically writes code, test cases for new and existing software products using ASP.NET framework.   • Participated in code reviews, software design and development process using SourceSafe.  • Gathered and analyzed information skillfully and provides alternate solutions   • Generated report format in Crystal Reports.  • Provided input to project plans by supplying realistic design and coding time estimates in Agile Software Development using Scrum. Education M.S. in Information Technology & Management The University of Texas at Dallas in Dallas - Dallas, TX 2013 to 2015 B.S. in Computer Science Shenzhen University in Shenzhen 2009 to 2013 Skills C# (3 years), SQL (3 years), Javascript (Less than 1 year), Java (1 year), Agile (3 years), SVN/Git (2 years), Vb.Net (Less than 1 year), Ajax (Less than 1 year), Web Services (2 years) Links https://www.dropbox.com/s/33a0robfi20dhtz/IKM%20Test.png?dl=0 http://github.com/new2500