Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer - Lumeris healthcare • Around 3 years of strong software experience in Java/J2EE based application development and experience and Support of web/enterprise applications.  • Experienced in Design and Development of multi-tier enterprise applications using Java, J2EE, Spring, Servlets, JSP, JSF, Hibernate, JDBC, Java Beans and Web services.  • Knowledge on Amazon Web services and various services such as DMS, S3 buckets, EC2 instance, RDS instances, lambda functions.  • Experienced in using software development methodologies (Agile, Scrum), Continuous integration and Test-Driven Development.  • Experienced with development IDEs such as Eclipse, IntelliJ and Spring tool suite, Visual studio code.  • Experience with standard internet protocols such as HTTP, SMTP, HTTPS, FTP.  • Experience in Agile development methodologies and Version Control tools like SVN and GIT.  • Proficient in implementing Object Oriented Programming (OOPS) using JAVA/J2EE technologies like Core Java (OOPS, Collections, Threads), JSP, JDBC, Spring, Hibernate, Restful web services.  • Experienced in using web/application servers such as Apache Tomcat, IBM WebSphere, IBM WebLogic.  • Experience with XML and related standards and technologies like SOA, Web Services and API integration experience, SOAP, WSDL, XML, JAXB, JAX-WS.  • Extensive experience in developing scalable, reliable and efficient enterprise applications using Java, Spring, Hibernate, Web services, JSF, JDBC, JSP, Servlets.  • Experienced in integrating enterprise applications using JMS, SOAP and RESTful Web services  • Set up Jenkins server and build jobs to provide continuous automated builds based on polling the Git source control system.  • Experience in developing web applications using Spring MVC frame work and Object-Relational Mapping (ORM) technologies such as JPA, Hibernate and Eclipse.  • Excellent experience with major relational databases Oracle 11g/10g, SQL Server 2005/2008, DB2, and MySQL.  • Experience with JavaScript and JavaScript frame works JQuery, JQuery UI, AngularJS.  • Experience in developing small scale python based lambda applications.  • Provided 24x7 on call support in production environment on rotation basis. Work Experience Software Developer Lumeris healthcare - St. Louis, MO April 2018 to Present • Worked on Lumeris data services platform by analyzing business requirements, technical designing, implementation and documentation using Agile Methodologies.  • Involved in developing applications with REST web services and experienced with securing the rest web services.  • Migrated core applications from tomcat 7 to tomcat 8.524 under cargo container and debugged issues and also fixed them in a very less time.  • Developed lambda applications in both Java and python.  • Created multi-threading applications in both java and python using concurrent futures library.  • Worked on creating AWS resources, Lambda, RDS through cloud formation templates.  • Worked on JUnit tests for the API using Mockito  • Created and Consumed Restful Web Services using Spring boot.  • New library development with micro services architecture using Rest APIs, spring boot.  • Enhancement of the existing functionality to persist the messages to Cassandra DB in Kafka.  • Implemented SOA architecture with web services using SoapUI, WSDL and RESTful.  • Designed GUI using JQuery, CSS to improve visual effect on the dynamic front-end.  • Used Bamboo to build and deploy the code in Dev and SIT environments.  • Developed Web Services clients to consume those Web Services as well other enterprise wide Web Services.  • Using UML, Java/J2EE, Web technologies that include JSP, Servlets, Struts, JMS, JDBC, HTML, XML, Java Script and Hibernate.  • Worked on Apache spark process to start the batch work on s3 files.  • Strong experience in working with Core Java concepts like OOPS, Multi-threading, Exception handling, Generics, Collections, Networking etc.  • Implemented the web layer using Spring, JQuery  • Exposed the Web Services to the client applications by sharing the WSDL's.  • Method references are used provided in Java8 to make use of methods already named.  • Used core java for multithreading and exception handling  • Worked on Junit testing using Mockito framework.  • Unit tested all the classes using JUNIT at various class level and methods level.  • Used Core Java Collections, Exception Handling, multithreading and generics.  • Involved in development of service layer and DAO layer using Spring framework and Hibernate  • Being a part of production team provided 24x7 supports for all the environments.    Environments:JAVA8, J2EEApplication server, Spring, Hibernate, WebServices, HTML, CSS, SQL Server, AngularJS, AWS, Oracle 11g, Apache Tomcat 8.524, VMware. Java Developer Microsoft May 2014 to December 2015 • Responsible for the implementation of application system with Core Java and spring framework.  • Created and injected spring services, spring controllers and DAOs to achieve dependency injection.  • Designed and Implemented REST web Services for the application  • Automated and scheduled backups on all UNIX Machines using shell scripts.  • Performance tuning was done with respect to system, connection pools Execute threads and JVM heap size.  • Installed, configured and integrated Web servers (plug-in file), SiteMinder agents and LDAP user directory with WAS.  • Installation and configuration of BPM v7.5  • Configured and Enabled the Global Security System for WAS Administration for Console users and Console Groups using Active Directory Server as a LDAP User Registry.  • Develop domain monitoring java class using JMX to collect JDBC, JVM, and Execute Queue statistics for Managed Servers.  • Installed and Configured the IBM BPMv 7.5/ 8.0 on various platforms like AIX, Linux and Windows in Cluster and Non-Cluster Environments on AIX and Linux.  • Document and establish standard processes to ensure repeatability for J2EE administrators.  • Provided Migration configuration for transactions, security, services, JMS servers and services while transitioning from development to production environment.  • Installed Oracle 8i/9i/10g client software on the application server and configuring the connectivity using JDBC drivers for the database.  • Deployment and Troubleshooting of JAR, WAR and EAR applications in clustered environment with WebSphere.  • Created Tomcat instances and modified each and removed shared component.  • Installed APR, OpenSSL, Tomcat-native, Oracle JDK, Oracle JRE, Tomcat connector Mod_jk, APR Utility.  • Installed and Configured LDAP server.  • Implemented Load balancing of web applications by configuring WebSphere proxy plug-in.  • Performance tuning by managing and monitoring the JVM performance by WebSphere Heap size, garbage collection, execute threads, EJB Cache size, JDBC pools and multi pools.  • Performed extensive trouble shooting experience including stack trace analysis and JVM tuning experience by changing to heap sizes according to the requirement.  • Wrote scripts (start, stop & ping) for web application server administration.  • Configured SSL Certificates for WebSphere and Apache servers.  • Monitored free space, disk usage, locating files, checking & clearing log files, administration & monitoring of file systems, network & virtual memory statistics.    Environment: Java, J2EE, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, WebSphere Server 8.x, Jenkins, WSRR, IIB, SUN Solaris 8.0/10.0, Linux, Oracle 10g, JDK 1.4/1.5,1.6, Servlets, EJB 2.0, Apache. Skills database. (1 year), DB2 (Less than 1 year), Eclipse (Less than 1 year), HTML (2 years), integration (Less than 1 year), INTEGRATOR (Less than 1 year), J2EE (2 years), Java (2 years), JDK (1 year), JIRA (Less than 1 year), JSDK (Less than 1 year), Linux (1 year), MS SQL Server (1 year), Oracle (2 years), Oracle 10g (1 year), SQL (1 year), SQL Server (1 year), testing (1 year), UNIX (1 year), XML (1 year) Additional Information Technical Skills    Programming Languages: C, JAVA, Java8, Core Java, J2EE, SQL, PL/SQL, Python    Operating Systems: LINUX, Windows 98/2000/NT/XP/VISTA.  Middleware:  OSB 10g, J2EE, JBoss4.2.3/4.3.0.  Web Technologies: JDK 1.4/1.5/1.6 HTML, XML.  Scripting Languages: UNIX Shell Scripting, Perl Scripting.  Packages: JSDK 2.0, J2EE, Python.  Monitoring and Testing Tools: Nosetests, Mockito, Bamboo, Sonar, OEM 11g.  IDE's/Utilities: Eclipse, Putty.  Database: Oracle 10g/11g, MS SQL Server, DB2.  Tools: Bitbucket, JIRA, Confluence, Bamboo, SQL Developer  Process & Concepts: Agile, SCRUM, SDLC, Object-Oriented Analysis and Design, Test driven Development, Continuous Integration, bamboo builds.