Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer Tucson, AZ Technical and highly motivated software developer, with technical skills in end-to-end software development and web application designing, possessing knowledge of various software languages and tools with a passion about the user experience and integrating software per the requirements and enhancing the ability of IT systems. Work Experience Software Developer NinthBrain - Grand Rapids, MI May 2017 to April 2019 • Brainstormed with team members to come up with new ideas  • Presented ideas for system improvements   • Coded in VB.NET to develop new modules for the software suite   • Maintained the company’s marketing website in Wordpress  • Debugged issues from clients support tickets  Web Developer IST - Grand Rapids, MI 2016 to 2017 • Developed and designed the company website with Wordpress.  • Used the ASP.NET webforms framework to develop an employee kiosk.  • Overhauled the company's reporting software using the Foundation front-end framework.  • Developed new reports in SQL using the SQL Server Management Studio Software Developer Intern 40 Visuals - Grandville, MI 2015 to 2016 • Developed their custom order processing using PHP and the Laravel MVC Framework.  •  Created easy to use user interface using the Blade templating engine with the Bootstrap front-end framework.   •  Used an object relational mapper called Doctrine to develop object oriented SQL queries.  • Wrote numerous test cases using a behavior-driven test framework called Peridot. Level 1 Help Desk Technician Grand Valley State University - Allendale, MI August 2014 to August 2015 • Handled faculty and students computer issues over the phone  • Managed the help desk ticket system to facilitate desktop issues  • Engaged with faculty and students face-to-face Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science Grand Valley State University - Grand Rapids, MI 2012 to 2017 Skills ASP, PHP, Javascript, HTML 5, MySQL, jQuery, Git, CSS, React (Less than 1 year), Project Management (2 years), UI, Front-End, Customer Service (3 years) Certifications/Licenses A+ Certified January 2012 to January 2015 Microsoft Office Specialist February 2012 Adobe Photoshop February 2012 Customer Service March 2012 to March 2015 Assessments Critical Thinking — Expert April 2019 Using logic to solve problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/hcuqw7ttbcwbbkid Search Engine Optimization — Expert April 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to interpret online website performance metrics and understand search engine optimization tactics. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/nrtiokcpseoiefos Data Analysis — Highly Proficient April 2019 Measures a candidate's skill in interpreting and producing graphs, identifying trends, and drawing justifiable conclusions from data. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/v7fbpjfazsyo2tgu Attention to Detail — Highly Proficient April 2019 Identifying differences in materials, following instructions, and detecting details among distracting information. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/uwr52knn86ej3f Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.