Android Developer (Freelancer) Android <span class="hl">Developer</span> (Freelancer) Android Developer (Freelancer) • Software Engineer with 2.7 years of experience in designing, developing and testing of stand-alone, web and  submission of android applications.    • Good Experience with complete product development lifecycle, developing consumer facing applications, Object  Oriented Analysis and design methodologies.    • Good command of software development life cycle activities including analysis, design, development, system testing  and product deployment.    • Experience in End-to-End application design and development, writing Functional Specification, HLD, LLD.    • Able to design the applications from the requirement and known for writing efficient, maintainable and reusable code  that preserves privacy and security.  • Experience in Android Sdk, Android Studio, Eclipse IDE, Activities, Fragments, Services, UI Designing, offline  storage, cloud storage using firebase, threading    • Good Knowledge on Broadcast Receivers, Content Providers, sql lite, json parsing.    • Extensively worked in Designing and Executing Test Cases, Test Execution, Reporting, Analyzing bugs and Tracking  Defects. Proficient in compatibility testing, usability testing and Adhoc testing.    • Good experience Defect Tracking tool Bugzilla 3.4.5 and Jira    • Experience on Linux commands & Installations.    • Quick learning, implementation and easy adoption to new technologies. Work Experience Android Developer (Freelancer) S. No December 2018 to March 2019 Organization Designation Duration    1. RDM Consultants Android Developer (Freelancer) Dec 2018 - March 2019 Software Engineer Winfoware Technologies - Bangalore, KARNATAKA, IN June 2014 to January 2017 Project Summary  Company: RDM Consultants    Application: GVR ( Grand Village Restaurant )  GVR is a restaurant app, specifically designed for Android devices. GVR provides option to book tables in the restaurant.  It also provides customized selection of food menu for customers more than 100.    • Developer ( Android Application )    • Involved in designing, developing and providing solutions of project in short span of time    • Involved in authenticating using google and facebook login using firebase    • Helped in testing and fixed issues immediately    • Platform - Windows, Android Java, Android SDK, OS supported from Android 4.2    Company: Winfoware Technologies  Application: MAsystguard  Client: HelpYay, United States  MAsystguard Mobile Security is a security solution specifically designed for Android devices. MAsystguard will provide  all internet security for the mobile.It provides inter-app communication between master app and child apps. You can  manage all child app with our well designed master app solution.    • Developer ( Android Application )    • Involved in designing, developing and providing solutions of project in short span of time.    • Implemented Json parser from url to fetch the Json response from the local server.  • Helped in testing and fixed issues immediately    • Achievements - Developed full android application and Vendors were very happy with the desired output.    • Platform - Windows, Android Java, Android SDK, OS supported from Android 4.2  Application: Asystguard    Client: HelpYay, United States  Asystguard offerings, for your Internet Security needs, covers Antivirus, Malware / Spamware Protection, Ad Blocking,  Parental Control and Performance Optimizer tools & solutions.  Asystguard Customer relationship management (CRM) is an approach to managing a company's interaction with current and future customers. It often involves using technology to organize, automate, and synchronize sales, marketing,  customer service, and technical support.    • Involved in designing views for few screens in the application    • Involved in developing controllers and models for few modules of the application.    • Helped in testing and fixed issues immediately.    • Involved in thorough system study using Requirement Specification Document.    • Involved in Compatibility testing on different Browsers.    • Involved in Functionality testing, Integration testing and Regression testing    • Platform - Cent OS, Windows    • Technology - Play Framework, mysql, Scala, Core Java, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Jquery, Ajax    Application: NetRadarr  Client: UTPL, India (Bangalore)  NetRadarr build the dynamic solution for monitoring the DVR's/NVR's and their camera's. Solution allows the formation of user's and groups for local and group viewing. Local users can check their DVR's/NVR's status on single button click.  Also user can access their various branches of different locations. Users can get all the details of their all DVR's/NVR's all on one page. NetRadarr provide Alert 24/7, Scheduled Alerts, Scheduled Health check up, Scheduled snapshots,  Scheduled Video back up, Scheduled daily, weekly and monthly Reports, Automatic Monitoring and Reporting.  NetRadarr service are Operate with easy dashboard look and feel, Choose e-mail, voice, and/or text messaging, Submit  incidents from PC or Android communications device, Analyze incident trend data in chart and graph format, Attach  pictures, audio, and video to incident reports    • Developer ( Backend using c++)    • Developed integrated device services which was added to web application.  • Responsible for fetching interfaces from the device network SDK Programming Manual for DVR's and NVR's and performing operations of the device.    • Responsible for testing of the integrated device services of the web application.    • Developed full application, Integrated device service using sdk which connect with device and fetch content which was used in web application.    • Platform - Cent OS, Windows, C++, Linux  Application: BMS ( Business Management System )    Client: Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike  BBMP has 8 zones and 198 wards with 1000+ Employees who are in charge of the BMS Assets. There are huge amount of file movement which happens in regards to the BMS Assets. This application has BMS (Business Management System)  work flow ams preservation system for digital movement of files. It has hierarchical approve and rejection of assets through on-line system.    • Involved in thorough system study using Requirement Specification Document.    • Involved in Compatibility testing on different Browsers.    • Involved in Functionality testing, Integration testing and Regression testing    • Involved in preparing Test cases, Test Plan, RTM, User manual documents, reviewing test cases.  • Involved in logging defects using Defect tracking tools    • Platform - Windows, Linux ( Fedora )  • Technology - .Net Framework 4.0, Asp.Net    Application: Linkedin  Client: UTPL, India (Bangalore)  LinkedIn Dev is to get need content like friends, new articles and company's information from different web site to  LinkedIn. To get contacts & articles LinkedIn has developed as separate SDE, which we can access using browser and we  can develop scripts to get contacts.    • Contacts API - Developed interface to fetch the contacts from the user accounts of various domains.    • Babylonia API - Developed interface to fetch the content from the different blogs. This api is very similar to embedly.  The article content, article published date, author name, images related to content will be fetched by the written  scripts.  • Companies API - Developed interface to fetch the company information from different corporations. The corporation  name, number, incorporation date, status, company address and agent address will be fetched by the written scripts.  • Involved in writing logic to extract content from responses like Json, XML and HTML.    • Verification and Execution of scripts and Bug Fixes and Preparation of Project Status reports.    • Technology used were groovy, java script, Rest API, HTTP Client, Json, XML, HTML, SDE tool.    • Achievements - LinkedIn was very happy with our team performance. Education B.E. in Computer Science East Point College Of Engineering And Technology For Women - Bangalore, KARNATAKA, IN August 2009 to June 2013 Additional Information Technical Skills  Programming Languages Java, C++, SQL, Android Programming    Web Technologies Javascript, HTML, CSS, XML, JSON, XPath    Platforms OS (Linux, Windows), Web Server (Tomcat), Android SDK    Databases Mysql, Hsqldb, SQLite    Tools Android Studio, Eclipse