ADMINISTRATOR ADMINISTRATOR ADMINISTRATOR - CA AGILE CENTRAL Work Experience ADMINISTRATOR CA AGILE CENTRAL November 2018 to Present - Led efforts in the upgrading of Rally to a new Docker architecture.  - Facilitated the upgrade process by collaborating with Development and Central Agile Support to ensure upgrade and data propagation from an old environment to a new environment were done  with minimal complications.  - Facilitated user requests for project privileges in the Central Agile Tool. Validated daily backups from production to the backup virtual machine. Software Development Engineer DEVOPS August 2016 to Present Automated release deployments across development and QA stacks using a combination of scripting  A self-motivated DevOps software engineer  languages (mainly Python) and other automation toolkits.  with a proficiency in Python programming, - Collaborated with QA and Development teams on the timing and content of builds, releases, and Isabel, in her current role, is responsible for patches for software. Shared in developing effective configuration strategies.  applying her technical and problem-solving - Worked in rotation for monitoring and development environment and present as support for critical  periods. Knowledgeable in all facets of DevOps infrastructure when a request or incident occurs.  abilities in developing high quality and high  Assisted during the critical launch of the NPAC.  reliability software. - Managed third party software validation requests and approval process from the Architecture  Review Board. Handled user access requests to Subversion partitions. Verified and monitored  overnight build jobs. Managed the opening and closing of source code repositories for various  releases and requested environment upgrades. DEVELOPER FULL STACK August 2016 to Present Primary developer/support for a configuration database application written in Python in tandem  with Django, Django Rest Framework, AngularJS, and MySQL. Used REST practices and Django to package the project as a micro service. Supported the development life cycle of platform  architectural design, deployment, and testing of the entire micro service.  - Developed a web application that is currently being used by system engineers to monitor and maintain alarm statuses with current production data. Greatly improved system engineer workflow  by optimizing and automating data storage, manipulation, and generation of various output files.  - Executed test-driven and agile development using PyTest. Ensured that performance guidelines set  by application experts and development team were met (FCC-compliance).  - Created a user-friendly UI utilizing Angular 2. Worked on API development with Django.  - Improved an existing configuration app written in Python and Django by implementing user sessions  and permission groups to limit and protect confidential data from non-permitted users. INTERN May 2015 to August 2016 Designed, developed, and maintained a data registration and management application in Python  (Django, Django Rest Framework, AngularJS, and MYSQL) adhering to guidelines set in place by senior engineers. Exposed to agile and test-driven development.  - Developed automation scripts and jobs to simplify and ease the daily workflow of software engineers  from various Development teams.    CONTACTS SKILLS  Phone PROGRAMMING  732.447.8710  Python, JavaScript, Java, C, MySQL, HTML, CSS, Bash / Shell  E-mail  isabelsantos9b1@gmail.com FRAMEWORKS & LIBRARIES  Django, Django Rest Framework, PyTest, Ansible, Jenkins, AngularJS, BlackDuck, Central Agile  Linkedin  isabel-santos-9b1b3b131 Rally, JSCAPE / SFTP, Subversion Education B.A. in COMPUTER SCIENCE School of Arts and Sciences 2012 to 2017 Rutgers Certifications/Licenses Driver's License