Guest Services Guest Services Software Developer Tacoma, WA • Object Orientated Programming: 3+ years implementing / utilizing objects in multiple languages via classes, inheritance, object literals, and prototyping.    • SQL: 1+ year – Basic knowledge and usage of relational databases.    • Full-Stack Web Development: 3+ years developing web content, both front-end and back-end, via PHP and JavaScript using vanilla code and/or frameworks.    • Communication: 5+ years of technical and non-technical communication both verbal and written.    • Personnel Training: 1+ year more training new and existing staff on internal software and procedures.    • Process Improvement: 2+ years of improving workflow and customer interaction. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Guest Services Metro Parks Tacoma - Tacoma, WA September 2016 to Present • Facilitate both customer and organizational needs with an emphasis on adaptive team work within all ages, abilities, backgrounds, and interests. Some digital/print based design work. Software Developer Eight Twenty-Eight Consulting - Tacoma, WA December 2018 to February 2019 • Designed, developed, and implemented company site hosting and email, using JavaScript, HTML and CSS. Design and implement a company logo as well as asset creation for various print formats using Adobe Illustrator.  Software Developer Green River Community College - Geology Dept. - Auburn, WA March 2018 to August 2018 • Worked with the Geology Department at Green River College to develop / implement an earthquake simulator program, using JavaScript to help 200 students per year learn how to triangulate an earthquakes’ epicenter.  Web Development cavnessHR - DuPont, WA March 2017 to August 2017 • Full stack Web Development project in Scrum, starting with client’s idea for a human resources software service concept (an HR version of LegalZoom) and delivered a working web application that was presented to end customers and potential investors. Graphic Design Minion Espionage Cosmetics - Tacoma, WA May 2015 to January 2016 • Worked closely with a small team to design print based cosmetic products and advertisements on over 20 products with proprietary and licensed material; distributed to over 10,000 customers with a revenue of $100,000+ over 9 months. Learned about international manufacturing requirements and provided detailed design specifications to overseas manufacturer. Education Bachelor's in Software Development Green River College - Auburn, WA 2016 to 2019 Associate in Graphic Design Pierce College - Steilacoom, WA 2013 to 2015 Skills Frameworks (2 years), Java (3 years), Javascript (3 years), Model-view-controller (3 years), Mysql (3 years), Php (2 years), Python (1 year), Web Development (3 years), Customer Service, HTML, Jquery, HTML5, OOP (3 years), Wordpress, Bootstrap, Front End, CSS (3 years), Application Development (1 year) Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/neperez23 https://github.com/graysfang http://neperez.com