Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer Baltimore, MD A programmer with 2.7 years of industry experience in Software Development and Systems Engineering. Proven ability to analyze requirements and provide dynamic solutions following best practices in the industry. Actively seeking full-time opportunities in software domain with innovation and learning at its core. Work Experience Software Developer Amdocs - Gurgaon, Haryana January 2017 to August 2017 • Worked upon Business Service Layer for Vodafone, Netherlands (VFNL).  • Designed and developed RESTful web services for several backend (JDBC) and frontend systems as per requirements.  • Automated several redundant tasks (Agile Business Automation) to increase the productivity of the system using DevOps.  • Analyzed requirements and provided solutions to improve the turnaround time for services by 28%.  • Pioneered the culture of DevOps and conducted classroom training for fellow employees. Systems Engineer Infosys, Ltd - Chennai, Tamil Nadu June 2014 to June 2016 • Worked on Walmart Pricing (WMP) application owned by PepsiCo, North America.  • Involved in all the phases of SDLC and operational activities around software applications.  • Designed software modules to add new functionalities and resolve defects in the application as per business requirements.  • Collaborated with cross cultural teams at PepsiCo and Walmart to provide improved software solutions as per feasibility study.  • Trained new employees and imparted functional & technical knowledge for various business applications. Education Master's in Computer Science University of Maryland Baltimore County - Baltimore, MD August 2017 to May 2019 B. Tech in Electronics and Communication Engineering Guru Gobind Singh Indraprastha University - New Delhi, Delhi August 2010 to May 2014 Skills Git, Javascript, HTML 5, MySQL, jQuery, CNN, Machine Learning, JAVA, Python, C++, DBMS, DevOps, Data Science, Artificial Intelligence, CSS Links http://linkedin.com/in/goyalvaibhav1 Awards DevOps Hackathon Winner 2017-07 DevOps Hackathon Winner at Amdocs - Awarded for the best implementation of DevOps to optimize software release.   Million Dollar BVA 2015-10 Worked on a BVA at Infosys amounting to $1 million as profits to PepsiCo, North America. Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Programming Languages JAVA/J2EE, Python, C/C++, PL/SQL, UNIX/Shell Scripting and Automation  Databases Oracle 11g, MySQL, PostgreSQL, NoSQL  Web Technologies Web Services (RESTful/SOAP), HTML, CSS, JavaScript, XQuery, JSP, AJAX, Cloud Services  Application Servers MySQL Server, Apache Tomcat, WebLogic 10.3, Oracle Service Bus (OSB)  Concepts OOA/OOD (UML, Design Patterns, Refactoring), Networking, Socket I/O, Microservices Architecture  Frameworks Spring (MVC/AOP), Hibernate (ORM), Java Collections, Service Oriented Architecture, JPA, PySpark  Machine Learning PyTorch, OpenCV, Pandas, PCL, numpy, scipy, matplotlib, scikit-learn, CUDA, Jupyter  DevOps Tools Docker, Kubernetes Jenkins, Maven, Ansible, Puppet, Chef, Nagios, Ginger, JUnit, Selenium