Software Engineer <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Software Engineer Fort Walton Beach, FL Seeking to provide innovation, creativity, and problem-solving skills in the implementation of cutting-edge technology, specifically in software development. Work Experience Software Engineer Anyar, Inc. - Fort Walton Beach, FL April 2017 to Present • Create plugins and modify core source for high-fidelity simulation software Endgame Framework (including Fragment Penetration sims, autonomy, motion capture, automated testing, custom data exporters, etc.)  • Designed and implemented a multi-threaded ROS (Robot Operating System) emulator that runs on Windows for the Collaborative Autonomous Weapons Systems (CAWS) project   • Integrated Georgia Tech Research Institute (GTRI) UAV autonomy algorithms into the Air Force's Advanced Framework for Simulation, Integration and Modeling (AFSIM) and the ROS emulator  • Conducted analysis on the autonomy framework running in the emulated ROS environment and performed Validation and Verification against the original flight system  • Created a “server” that replicates UDP traffic and injects it directly into the Autonomy Algorithm system, bypassing socket connections Lead Software Developer, Kreno(TM) Project RMCI, INC - Huntsville, AL May 2015 to August 2015 Designed and modified object-oriented signal processing software to fix errors, allow adaption  to new hardware, improve performance, and implement new features.  • Analyzed client software requests to determine feasibility of implementation within constraints.  • Consulted with customers about software system design and maintenance.  • Corrected errors, optimized algorithms, and conducted regression testing. Software Tester and Evaluator SOFTWARE ENGINEERING DIRECTORATE - Huntsville, AL June 2014 to August 2014 • Documented software defects, using a bug tracking system, and reported defects to software developers.  • Documented test procedures to ensure replicability and compliance with standards.  • Provided feedback and recommendations to developers on software usability and functionality.    Additional Proficiency: Object-oriented programming in C/C++, C#, Java, tools such as MS-TFS/Git, shell  scripting, Mathematica, MATLAB, Microsoft Office Word, Excel, PowerPoint, etc., Skills various DBMS and SQL  Experienced: LabVIEW, Python, JavaScript, Ruby, Prolog    Honors and Eagle Scout  Finalist, International Science and Engineering Fair  Awards * Developed hardware and software to acoustically locate source of gun shots  * Awards included International (two honorable mentions), Alabama State (First place  Electrical Engineering), North Alabama Regional (First place, Electrical Engineering), numerous special awards Education B.S. in Computer Science Mississippi College - Clinton, MS August 2014 to December 2016 Skills JAVASCRIPT, PROLOG, PYTHON (1 year), Ruby, DBMS, SQL, LABVIEW, MYSQL, Git (5 years), C++ (3 years), Java (4 years), C# (2 years) Assessments Data Analysis — Expert August 2019 Measures a candidate's skill in interpreting and producing graphs, identifying trends, and drawing justifiable conclusions from data. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/7tcaex7ac2pn704u Email — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate’s ability to effectively compose and organize email messages. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/zcvbqmxjywqmzdsa Technical Support — Expert August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/0oqypxdpmjce7ub6 English Communication Skills: Typing — Expert August 2019 Measures a candidate’s ability to effectively transcribe text using a standard keyboard. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/q71gecoa6mzq0wrt Critical Thinking — Expert August 2019 Using logic to solve problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/aand6ff43wz8e4kr Attention to Detail — Highly Proficient August 2019 Identifying differences in materials, following instructions, and detecting details among distracting information. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/agfmhvvnmqiiop-w Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.