Senior Software Engineer Senior <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Senior Software Engineer - BNY Mellon Plainview, NY Software developer with a huge interest in Big Data and back-end development. Work Experience Senior Software Engineer BNY Mellon - Jersey City, NJ December 2017 to Present Build and maintain scalable Microservices that process data and feed down to internal business system using Java,  Springboot, Kafka, Axon(Event sourcing framework), and Mongodb.  ? Build ETL pipeline using Bash script and Spark to pre-process data that is persisted in oracle, and pushed to Kafka  queue for Microservice to consume.  ? Use OOP to develop rules for tax law requirements provided by global tax management team developed in Java.  ? Create tool to support our BDD automated testing framework by comparing results from legacy system to current for developers to use when implementing features.  ? Analyze and resolved bugs across different Microservices.  ? Manage software releases on a weekly basis by coordinating with application owners, documenting version of components, deploying applications to cloud using CaaS, and providing quality assurance by performing regression  tests for fixed bugs and new builds.  ? Develop Jenkins job for developers to efficiently deploy applications in different environments through Jenkins form  submission.  ? Practiced Agile and Scrum in 2 week sprints with 10 other developers. Software Developer Intern KL Software Technologies Inc - New York, NY August 2017 to November 2017 Work with a team of developers on a web application project. Project consisted of Angular 4 as frontend, and  REST APIs built on ASP.NET to read/write data from and onto Salesforce.  ? Analyze business requirements to construct data model that consisted of 10+ customs objects, 200+ custom fields, and formed multiple relationships between objects using Master-Detail, Lookup, and Junction objects.  ? Develop REST API methods to read/write from and onto Salesforce using Force.com Toolkit  ? Write SOQL queries for each custom object to retrieve data and display on Client UI  ? Implemented mapping files using data loader user interface, and uploaded 10,000+ records using data loader onto  multiple objects.  ? Coach team members on Salesforce such as explaining different editions of Salesforce, and components of Salesforce  that were used in the project.  ? Provide status updates, and demoed the progress of the project in Sprint meetings on a weekly basis. Solutions Development Intern Canon USA Inc - New York, NY June 2017 to August 2017 Assist in the transition to Salesforce org production by configuring validation rules, custom objects, custom fields,  Apex classes, and triggers.  ? Provide data reliability by eliminating duplicates, and resolving various errors during the upload process using the data loader.  ? Develop an Apex class with methods to efficiently notify owners on their account updates.  ? Design an UI using Apex, Visualforce, and JavaScript for owners to have accessibility on all their accounts. Education Bachelor of Arts in Computer Science Queens College of City University of New York - Queens, NY 2013 to 2017 Skills APACHE KAFKA (1 year), JAVA (1 year), KAFKA (1 year), MONGODB (1 year), ORACLE (1 year) Additional Information Programming Skills  • Languages: Java, C++, Python, Javascript, HTML5, CSS3, SQL, NoSQL    Technologies: Spring, Springboot, Jenkins, Spark, Kafka, HDFS, Oracle, MongoDb, Git, Salesforce, Docker,  Angular, Eclipse, IntelliJ