Systems Engineer/Database Developer Systems Engineer/Database <span class="hl">Developer</span> Systems Engineer/Database Developer - Intermountain Centers for Human Development Tucson, AZ • Over 3 years of experience in Database Development, Data Analysis, Design, Development and Support of MS SQL Server 2008, 2005, 2000 in production and testing in development.  • Experience with Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC). Agile/Scrum and project management methodologies.  • Experienced in creating and using Stored Procedures, Triggers, Views, User-Defined Functions, Sub-Queries, joins for complex queries involving multiple tables and exception handlers.  • Versatile team player with good communication, analytical and inter-personal skills. Ability to learn new tools and use them correctly. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Engineer/Database Developer Intermountain Centers for Human Development November 2017 to Present • Working on Data Migration project includes building intermediate database creation scripts, validation scripts, testing data extract, smoke testing the production version of the system to cut down production costs by 10%.  • Involved in definition of database requirements, analyzed existing models, reports looking for opportunities to improve efficiency and troubleshoot various performance issues.  • Designed and developed data import utilities by writing 3000 lines of SQL stored procedures to identify clients with special needs.  • Write Triggers, Stored Procedures, Functions, Coding using Transact-SQL (T-SQL).  • Created SSIS package to load data from Flat files, Excel and XML to Data Warehouse and report data mart using Lookups, derived columns, aggregate and Pivot transformation.  • Designed, deployed and maintained complex reports using SQL Server Reporting Services.  • Write complex T-SQL stored procedures to verify the data integrity and validation from the front-end values with back-end database values. Jr. Systems Analyst Empro Systems LLC April 2017 to November 2017 • Spearheaded full range of MVC frameworks and workflows for developing JSP, JSF pages and component-based templates.  • Performed back-end testing to ensure data consistency on front-end by writing and executing SQL and T-SQL queries.  • Involved in communicating with team on regular basis regarding bug fixes, code reviews, enhancements and program changes.  • Contributed to developing an end-to-end application using JavaScript and integrated SQL injections to pull requests from database and authorize automatic session timeouts.  • Achieved 95% code review, accuracy from users in tracking and resolving production cases by setting priorities. Validated RESTful web services using postman.  • Integrated Agile Scrum Development methodologies for software solutions.  • Worked with development team, project managers, analysts, business resources in understanding requirements, planning, executing and documenting application features. Software Engineer G5 Software Solutions Inc June 2013 to April 2014 • Participated in complete Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for proper analysis, development, testing, deployment and enhancement of code ensuring 98% user satisfaction.  • Played key role in writing application logic using Eclipse IDE and Android SDK.  • Programmed with clean, modular code using Java and XML on Android SDK platform.  • Tested and monitored applications on multiple devices to ensure compatibility standards.  • Worked on User Interface to design the appropriate behaviors and widgets.  • Integrated client-side application with server API via asynchronous tasks.  • Undertook deployment of apps on Google Play Store and supported user reviews.  • Android Video Player: Developed main functionality of App by writing 2000 lines of code in Java, which facilitates playing videos on external storage device or by setting up remote HTTP requests.  • Android Privacy Notes: Built Android Privacy Notes using encryption algorithms, which allows users to store notes in unreadable text and integrated password strategies to authorize notes. Education Master of Science in Computer Science Texas A&M University - Commerce, TX August 2015 to December 2016 Bachelor of Technology in Computer Science & Engineering Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University - Hyderabad, Telangana September 2010 to May 2014 Skills Sql server, Sql, Amazon web services, C#, C++, Git, Html, Javascript, Xml, Sql server reporting services, Ssrs, Erwin, Mongodb, Java, Asp, Web services, Jira, Vmware, Rest, MYSQL, Android, CSS, HTML 5 Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/laasya-dyavarashetty/ Certifications/Licenses Querying Data with Transact-SQL June 2019 to Present Received from : edx.org Publications Exploring Data Analysis http://rpubs.com/LaasyaDyavarashetty/243577 2016-12 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    • Languages: SQL, C, C++, C#, Java, JavaScript, ASP, XML, HTML  • Tools: SQL Server Management Studio, SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS), VMware, Erwin, Amazon Web Services, MongoDB, JIRA, Git, REST