Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Service Engineer El Paso, TX Develop my theoretical knowledge by applying my skills and principles, supporting business needs. Work Experience Software Developer Steele Consulting - El Paso, TX January 2019 to Present Software developer for various customers Service Engineer DAP America Inc April 2018 to December 2018 Fix mechanical, designing programs and electrical issues at various types of sewing machines. Understanding  how the machine works and diagnose it at customer plant on what was the issue. Certified on different machine  classes.  • Training the different customer plants about the operation and maintenance of their interest sewing machines.  • Supporting KSL robotics company. Troubleshooting KUKA robots to diagnose issues, path programming and safety  programming, for the operator and the sewing machine/  • CNC machine programming to edit customer programs of sewing designs.  • Supporting on KSL, Durkkop Adler, PFFAF and Rich Peace America to fix their machines on the customer side.  • Traveling for onsite repair service. IT Specialist BEPC Consultor at Johnson and Johnson Bio September 2017 to January 2018 • Development of dashboard system, for the different company levels, to track company's capital project expense.  A webpage-based system to track the savings that the different business units did at different time periods, weekly, monthly, quarters and yearly. The system was able to track and compare the different business finance  concepts  • SharePoint 365 administration and web development for the engineering department.  • Understanding of the different finance concepts of a project cycle.  • Qlik reports development for data visualization. IT Specialist FLUTEC Design + Building Company June 2017 to August 2017 • Excel and VBA software developing, for Human Resources operative processes such as employee census, CRUD system and an employee holding measurement interview based on a score system.  • Basic software maintenance to PC's inside the company; such as installing new software, keeping it up to date and research about costs and benefits of a new software.  • HDD Backups.  • O.S. install and restore to PC's. Delphi MTC April 2016 to December 2016 CCSE Group  • Developing a new webpage for the CCSE group for better organization, programmed with HTML, Bootstrap and Javascript. The webpage would be able to notify the status of the customer complaint, and give a brief description of  what is all about.  • Updating the client concern systems, and training of the personal in these systems and how to manage a concern raised from different customers. Understanding the different customer systems and update the  visual aid on how to answer them.  • Tracking, negotiation and resolution of the customer complaints. Direct interaction with automotive companies as clients. Such as Yazaki, Lear, Autokabel and Delphi harness plants, located on Asia, US, South America, Mexico and  Europe, to negotiate the complaint to be able to close it.  • Defining and identifying the possible root cause of an issue for Delphi Packard components. Using the different  problem-solving tools to identify the problem, and separating on their categories. Either molding or assembling, and which component.  • Taking the best decision on giving the material contention for the different plants, to reduce costs  for both parties.  • Responsibility of answering 3D's and 8D's on the concern systems on time. Analyzing these documents and be able to identify if this satisfies the customer needs. Education BS in Computer Systems Engineering Universidad Autonoma de Ciudad Juarez 2016 Skills HTML (Less than 1 year), JAVASCRIPT (Less than 1 year), BOOTSTRAP (Less than 1 year), VBA (Less than 1 year), TRAINING (Less than 1 year), Git Additional Information SUMMARY/SKILLS:  • Programming skills; C, C#, C++, Ruby, Python, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, PHP, MySQL, JavaScript, VBA.  • Java SE 8 certified associate (unfinished).  • KUKA KSS Operation Pro Certified.  • Mechanical training on six different sewing machines  • Problem solving Shainin course; Correct definition of a problem, its variables, and possible root cause.  • Entrepreneurship course at business incubator, Technology HUB  • Used to work under pressure, analytic and efficient on finding the best solution and taking the right  decision on the given time, also prevent possible long or short-term consequences.  • Captain of the swimming team of the university; Leadership skills and team work.  • Ability to collaborate, speak and communicate with all levels of the organization.  • Staff training experience.  • Interaction with multiple cultures around the world, as well as negotiation skills with global client  contacts.  • Theatrical skills; Ability to talk in public and relate easy with people.  • Program and O.S. skills; Windows 7 and 8, Mac OS, Office 2013, SQL Management studio 2008, MySQL  Workbench, Advanced Excel.  • Recognition of the best idea for thesis project of the generation.  • Bilingual.