Computer Science Instructor Computer Science Instructor Levittown, NY Result oriented software developer skilled in problem solving, research, collaboration.  - Comfortable switching between architecture, design and implementation.  - Excellent communication and interpersonal skills and a good team player with the ability to work independently. Work Experience Computer Science Instructor Private Prep - Levittown, NY June 2019 to Present Stay at Home Parent September 2017 to June 2019 - Currently working with The Coding Space to conduct summer camps for students (ages 8 - 14).  - Volunteered at local public library to help teach students game designing through Scratch.  - Completed online course Object Oriented Programming in Java Specialization on Coursera. Web Developer Intern CCSI - Ronkonkoma, NY October 2016 to December 2016 Configured and Integrated Wowza Media Server for live camera streaming. Consumed Wowza REST API, using helper  classes and integrated in application to start and stop the streams and display them using wowza player.  - Provided custom log system for tracking all users' activities like who accessed camera stream, who has logged in and logged  out etc. using Entity Framework6, LINQ, ASP.NET MVC and jQuery. Jr. Software Engineer Encodex Technologies Inc - Pune, Maharashtra September 2011 to January 2013 Improved product stability by converting it entirely from Silver Light to C#.net which also resulted in better product design  and improved performance and feel.  - Developed and redesigned a page template called whiteboard that allowed easy creation of catalogs. Implemented features  such as image drag and drop and right click menu to cut/copy and paste through Javascript.  - Delivered a new feature called order worksheet by using C#.net and SQL to generate detailed invoices for orders generated  on the catalog. Education MS Computer Science in Computer Science Hofstra University August 2017 BE Information Technology Shivaji University June 2011 Skills Eclipse, Java, .net, Visual studio, C#, Git, Javascript, Xcode, Sql, Linux, Cvs Additional Information Technical Skills  C# .Net, Java, Javascript, SQL  Eclipse, Visual Studio, XCode  Windows, Linux  Git, CVS, TFS