Senior Software Engineer Senior <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Senior Software Engineer Texas City, TX Excellent team player with passion for continuous learning and strong knowledge of development tools and languages with 4 + years of experience in analysis, developing designs, code and testing software applications. Work Experience Senior Software Engineer Wipro Technologies Limited - Chennai, Tamil Nadu October 2012 to March 2014 Description:  Web Application developed using .NET and AngularJS technologies and provides ability to generate  premium for policy holders.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in the design and development of UI portal using AngularJS, Web API, Entity  Framework, ADO.NET, C#.Net.  • Used HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, SemanticUI to manipulate documents based on the data.  • Developed stored procedures, views, functions, triggers, Indexes using SQL Server 2012.  • Designed & Implemented database server operations such as filtering, sorting, for Grid using  dynamic LINQ Expressions.  • Developed RESTful services using Web API 2.0 for various UI interface.  • Worked with Design Architects for Design Decisions.  • Keen focus on performance tuning, testing, and quality assurance.  • Develop and execute unit tests for product components.  • Production support of these applications in a timely manner.  • Provide leadership, technical guidance, and mentoring to the team members.  • Establish standards and Perform peer code reviews and provide feedback.  • Promote high quality, scalability, and timely completion of projects. Senior Software Engineer Wipro Technologies Limited December 2011 to October 2012 Description:  Customized ERP packages available in six modules, all are highly integrated and providing all  information regarding the management functions. The various modules available are Purchase, Inventory, Sales, Production Planning and Control (PPC), Finance and Human Resources. Involved in handling the financial module. Finance management system looks after the entire financial  activities. Finance module is completely integrated with Purchase, Inventory, Sales and Production.  It covers all type of vouchers, Bill verification from Purchase and Sales and stock transfer in Inventory. This helps the user to view all activity reports.    Responsibilities:  • Requirement Analysis and documentation of Functional Requirement Document.  • Worked with the client and onsite team on gathering & documentation of requirements and design decisions.  • Designed prototype with software architecture.  • Architecture and Design using ASP.NET MVC with Entity Framework.  • Expertise on Front-end JavaScript skills. Worked on Prototypal Object Oriented Programming  using JavaScript.  • Implemented generations of UI Controls with dynamic validation rules such as required/mandatory, field edit rules based on the business policy types.  • Used C# key concepts such as reflections, expression trees, delegates, event handlers  • Implemented Domain driven design patterns, Repository Pattern , Unit of Work, Code First  Entity Framework approach  • Designed UI in HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JQuery, Bootstrap, and JavaScript.  • Developed web application using C#, Web Services, WCF, Web API, LINQ, JQuery.  • Developed stored procedures, views, functions, triggers, Indexes in SQL Server 2008.  • Develop technical design and prepare product demo/presentation detailing the project design  parameters and requirements.  • Involved in the Unit testing and User Acceptance Testing.  • Mentor developers and contribute to knowledge sharing. Managing Development Team by ensuring all solution designs are aligned with project objectives and the strategic design  direction.  • Used Clearcase for version control.  • Created MOMs for estimating efforts and development tasks.  • Responsible for creating the reports based on the requirements using Crystal Report.  • Generated periodic reports based on the statistical analysis of the data using SQL Server  Reporting Services (SSRS).  • Production support of these applications in a timely manner. Software Developer Wipro Technologies Limited March 2011 to December 2011 Description:  This project facilitates sending final payoff letters to borrowers and co borrowers. Customers are intimated  if the final scheduled payment is not sufficient to pay off the loan. Batch jobs and stored procedures are  used to automate this functionality. Coordination with Dialog extreme tool for printing letters and FDR  vendor for couriering letters. CSR can manually trigger few letters like reminder letters for payment from UI loan servicing application.    Responsibilities  • Provided business analysis, gathered requirements, designed and developed integrated IT  solutions and business processes to meet client and internal user requirements.  • Created technical, functional and business specifications.  • Consulted with teams to determine the technical feasibility of client requests and provided  development effort units and estimates.  • Worked with high level business managers to effectively prioritize activities and achieve defined  objectives.  • Technical documentation.  • Developed tables, constraints, stored procedures, views, functions, triggers, Indexes using  SQL Server 2005.  • Application Coding in HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, C#.Net, Web Services, WCF, LINQ.  • Analysis and design of datahooks/placeholders in letters from source tables and predefined placement in letters.  • Unit test execution and validation.  • Reviewing design, deliverables, defects, test results.  • Deployment activities and QA support.  • Ensuring standards, guidelines and process.  • Ensuring deliverables are version controlled in IBM Clearcase and meet business and end  user needs.  • Conducting Retrospective meeting and Handover to Support team.    Project: Customer Authorization Activity Notes Process (Aug 2010- Mar 2011)  Description:  This project facilitates posting of activity notes by customer representatives on customer accounts when customer is on call. Customers are first authorized by checking the personal information by selecting  appropriate check boxes based on business logic separate for borrowers and co borrowers. Allow  updates to personal information after authorization. Sending the activity notes posted to SHAW system for synchronization.    Responsibilities  • Preparation of high level/low level design documents.  • Analysis, design and development of GUI and Database components.  • Team Discussion for providing development estimates.  • Identifying any dependencies, uncertain risks and performing risk based regression testing.  • Developed tables, constraints, stored procedures, views, functions, triggers, Indexes in SQL Server 2005.  • Developed UI using HTML, C#.Net, JavaScript, CSS, AJAX, Web services, caching and data  binding from database.  • Used LINQ with ADO.NET objects like Data Adapter (Dataset & Data table) and Data Reader to retrieve data from the databases.  • Unit test execution and validation.  • Reviewing design, deliverables, defects, test results.  • Involved in deployment activities and QA support in staging environment.  • Ensuring standards, guidelines and process.  • Ensuring deliverables are version controlled in IBM Clearcase and meet business and end  user needs.  • Propose any value adds to Clients.  • Proper Documentation.  • Conducting Retrospective meeting and Handover to Support team.    Project: Legal Balance Processing of Financial transactions (Jan 2010- Aug 2010)  Description:  COAF receives data file from FICO vendor which contains monetary transactions. COAF has to interpret the transaction codes and action codes considering the non sufficient funds and process these monetary  transactions based on business rules and recreate another new file and send it to SHAW mainframe  system for synchronization. New user interface that allows selective customer representatives to view, edit and update loan details, view current dues accounts, assign it to recovery agencies based on state  restrictions.    Responsibilities  • Understanding and analyzing business, functional, technical user stories.  • Proposing physical and logical design in a scalable and compliance focused manner with necessary UML diagrams in MS Visio.  • Team Discussion for providing development estimates.  • Developed tables, constraints, stored procedures, views, functions, triggers, Indexes in SQL Server 2005.  • Developed UI screens using HTML, C#.Net, JavaScript, CSS, AJAX, Web services, caching  and data binding from database.  • Unit test execution and validation.  • Coordination with vendors like FICO and SHAW mainframe system.  • Developed various reports using Reporting Services (SSRS).  • Writing performance tuned optimized queries.  • Reviewing design, deliverables, defects, test results.  • Involved in deployment activities and QA support in staging environment.  • Ensuring standards, guidelines and process.  • Ensuring deliverables are version controlled in IBM Clearcase and meet business and end  user needs.  • Proper Documentation.  • Conducting Retrospective meeting and Handover to Support team    Project: Auto Correspondence (Aug 2009-Jan 2010)  Description:  Facilitates triggering of letters to customers by identifying eligible accounts using business conditions and update the necessary information about the customers like customer name, address, payment amount,  maturity date etc and perform data validation and sending email to Client correspondence team with letter  information containing invalid data. This project was delivered in six phases containing 32 new letters with complex business logic.    Responsibilities  • Understanding and analyzing business, functional, technical user stories.  • Involved in determining XML message formats.  • Proposing physical and logical design in a scalable and compliance focused manner with necessary UML diagrams in MS Visio.  • Developed tables, constraints, stored procedures, views, functions, triggers, Indexes in SQL Server 2005.  • Perform Normalization and performance tuning.  • Creating and Execution and Validation of Batch Job.  • Creating Unit test cases and perform database testing.  • Involved in QA support in staging environment.  • Ensuring standards, guidelines and process.  • Ensuring deliverables are version controlled in IBM Clearcase and meet business and end  user needs.  • Proper Documentation. Education Master of Science in Software Engineering in Rajastan BITS Pilani 2013 Bachelor of Computer Applications in Wipro Certified Banking and Finance Stella Maris College - Chennai, Tamil Nadu 2009 Skills API, C#, JAVASCRIPT, BOOTSTRAP, NODE.JS Additional Information Technical Skills  Styling/Scripting Languages JavaScript, VBScript, XML, HTML5, CSS3 MediaQueries,  SemanticUI, AngularJS, ExpressJS, JQuery, JSON, Bootstrap  Web Technologies& ASP.NET, MVC, C#,VB.Net,ADO.NET, Entity Framework , LINQ,  Framework Web Services, WCF, Serialization, REST, Web API 2.0, Crystal  reports, SSRS, SSIS, AJAX, Node.js, NPM, Cassandra Caching  service  Operating Systems Microsoft Windows, UNIX, LINUX  Databases MS SQLServer 2012, Oracle 10, MySql, NoSQL, MongoDB  Tools MongoDB Compass, MS Visio, Quality Center, QTP  Version Control tools Visual Source Safe ,Clearcase, GitHub  Multimedia Systems Adobe Photoshop, CorelDraw, Flash, Macromedia Director