Software Developer I <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> I Software Developer I - York Risk Powell, OH Outgoing, personable student with great people skills. Possesses computer hardware and software experience. Excellent interpersonal communication skills both orally and written. Works well independently and in team environments and works well with others, including peers, instructors, and, coworkers. Abstract and concrete thinker, very proficient in spotting potential weaknesses. Proficient with Microsoft Word, Excel, and Power Point, and Internet Work Experience Software Developer I York Risk - Dublin, OH September 2018 to Present Apart of a team dedicated to maintaining and developing for our flagship application Carelink. General work includes creating SQL queries and exploring the source code to find and fix production support issues. For any given issue I am expected to be able to use C#, SQL, and JSON, and Javascript to identifiy and fix the issue. Also used SSRS to create client facing reports. Associate Jimmy Johns - Worthington, OH September 2017 to 2018 Contractor Intern My Service Depot - Dublin, OH April 2017 to September 2017 Worked for an insurance company as well as part of their side venture known as AgentCY Insurance Group. Developed websites for various clients as well as for the business itself.    • Co-founded a third business named My Benefit Depot.  • Hardcoded one website in HTML, as well as created two other sites in WordPress.  • Played a large role in leading a small team of designers to ensure the direction and goals would be completed in the appropriate time. Summer Intern Health Spot - Dublin, OH April 2014 to January 2015 Assisted a medical clinic which developed and owned technology that connected health-care providers and patients at retailers, nursing homes, community centers and other facilities. Built Health Spot stations which were then delivered to customers. Ensured quality assurance through checking of all units for accuracy. Oversaw shipping and receiving of products to companies. Provided Penetration Testing of software before, during, and after deployment. Handled various office tasks including typical office tasks such as copying, setting up virtual machines, and installing programs on computers.    • Only one of 40 students selected for high school senior project and only one of four students offered an internship with the company due to need and quality of work provided.  • Supervised and trained two temporary employees.  • Set up between 30-50 Local Access Networks.  • Served as a project management assistant building, testing, and deploying stations.  • Completed projects such as traveling to hospitals to ensure proper setup of our product. Customer Service Columbus Zoo and Aquarium - Powell, OH 2013 to 2014 Education Associates of Applied Science in Computer Science in Computer Science Columbus State Community College - Columbus, OH August 2018 Skills C#, C++, Html, Php, Python, Visual basic, Mysql, Sql, Java Additional Information SKILLS HIGHLIGHTS    • Java  • Visual Basic  • Python  • C++  • HTML  • C#  • PHP  • SQL  • MySQL