It enables admin to add It enables admin to add It enables admin to add • A seasoned professional offering 6.4+ years of experience in the IT Sector with  expertise in Application development.  • Experience in developing web based application using Spring Framework  (IOC, MVC).  • Experience in developing application using Restful API.  • Hands on knowledge of Object Oriented Programming concepts and java util API.  • Exposure to Java and J2EE Design patterns (Singleton, Factory, DAO).  • Exposure to Hibernate Framework ORM tool.  • Experience in Spring Boot implementation.  • Experience in Pivotal Cloud Foundry (PCF) deployment.  • Experience in Development and transforming Applications to PCF compliance.  • Experience in Development and transforming Applications to Micro-Service  architecture.  • Good hold on Data Structure, Algorithm and Multi threading.  • First-rate analytical and problem solving skills dedicated to maintaining high  quality standards, planning and managing projects from inception to  completion.    Operating Windows 2000, XP, Ubuntu 12.02  System  Tools Maven, SVN, Git, Jenkins    Database Mysql 5.5    IDE Eclipse, Intellij    Java, J2EE, Spring, SpringBoot, Hibernate, Mysql, Restful-  Technology  Webservice, Junit, Micro-Services    Server /Cloud Tomcat, Solr, AWS, PCF  CAREER CONTOUR    1) Cogknit Sematics Pvt. Ltd. - From Dec 2012 to July 2018  2) Capgemini Pvt. Ltd. - From Aug 2018 to till date    ACADEMIA Work Experience It enables admin to add Wells Fargo August 2018 to February 2019 Duration: Aug 2018 - Feb 2019  Platform Used: Windows, PCF  Technology Used: JAVA, Spring boot, Hibernate, Oracle, Maven    Project Description:  CRT is a web based application which helps the employees to Add/Update  certificate details. Once certificate gets expire, System will send reminder emails.  It enables admin to add/update/search employees details and other functionalities.  The Advantage platform will deliver many valuable components and functions, including:  • Easy to use, web-based look and feel  • Application is compliance to Cloud Foundry  • Externalized all services and properties  • Externalized file processing operations.  • External Web service for asynchronous operations.    Responsibilities:  • Implementing APIs for required functionalities.  • Implementing code to Pivotal Cloud Foundry (PCF) compliance.  • Coordination with testing team with respect to requirements and completion of the task.  • Preparing the SQL queries to analyze and retrieve data from existing DB's for migrated data.  • Provide Enhancements, Updates and Resolve issues    #2: ICOG (Corporate Learning Platform)    2 L&T February 2017 to January 2018 INDIA.  Duration: Feb 2017 - Jan 2018  Platform Used: Windows XP/7  Technology Used: JAVA, Spring, SpringBoot, Microservices, RestFul, MYSQL, Solr, Maven  Project Description:  ICOG is a web based application which helps the employees to learn various  Behavioral Competencies at low cost and without less human Expert. Employees can  use this application to improve their professional skills for their own/company  growth.    Responsibilities:  • Development of different modules of application.  • Implementing APIs for required functionalities.  • Redesign and implemented using SpringBoot and Microservices.  • Analysis of Business Process and Functional Requirement.  • Service, DAO and model classes  • Preparing the SQL queries to analyze and retrieve data from existing DB's for migrated data.  • Provide Enhancements, Updates and Resolve issues Internal Client April 2015 to January 2017 JAX-RS 2010 to December 2010 Technology Used: JAVA, J2EE, Spring, MYSQL, Hibernate, Solr, Tomcat, Maven, JAX-RS.    Description: This project is aimed to develop a web based Content Management System, which is used to store/edit/curate/delete crawl content from web. Application has SME and reviewer role as a Content curator and content approver. Once content is approve, can be  inject to any other system for user knowledge growth on different competencies.    Responsibilities:  • Development of different modules of application.  • Involved in Designing and Coding.  • Involved in analysis and understanding of the requirements of the module.  • Worked on the Application Design and Database Design.  • Preparing the SQL queries to analyze and retrieve data from existing DB's for migrated data.  • Provide Enhancements, Updates and Resolve issues    3  #4: Fetch Form  Duration: 1 Year Software Developer JAX-RS 2010 to December 2010 Description: This product is developed for Civil Engineers where the main motive is to reduce paper work and to track the complete maintenance such as man power required,  material required for construction, also enables report generation for analysis.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in understanding the requirement of features in product.  • Responsible for writing Controllers, Services and Repositories.  • Responsible for Unit Testing.  • Database Designing and Scripting. Software Developer JAX-RS - Bangalore, KARNATAKA, IN 2010 to December 2010 Technology Used: JAVA, J2EE, Spring, MYSQL, Tomcat, Maven, JAX-RS.  Role: Software Developer    Description: Rides on a point to point basis across several cities. We are changing the way  you move around in your city with a range of travel options to explore the Cities. In this  project login id and password required for the user to book rides. User have to enter source  station and destination station after that he will get some options with fare and choose any  one of them.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in understanding of clients specific functionality based on the SRS and SDS.  • Implemented persistence logic in the DAO classes.  • Involved in development Java Server Page of Home page and hibernate HBM files.  • Generated HBM files and POJO classes based on database schema.  • Involved in defect fixing.    I hereby declare that the information furnished above is true to the best of my knowledge.    Place: Bangalore  Date: 11/04/19 (Kishori Lal Patel) Education MCA in Computer Science Bhilai Institute Of Technology - Bhilai, CHHATTISGARH, IN BSC in Information Technology D.K. College - Baloda, CHHATTISGARH, IN