Freelance Freelance Freelance Hammond, LA Software Developer experienced in creating high-throughput applications, content-addressable storage, continuous integration workflows, and internal APIs. Work Experience Freelance October 2018 to December 2018 Skills:  Golang SOA/Service-Oriented Architecture Microservices Kubernetes Docker Relational Databases Git Kanban Linux TDD/ Test-Driven Development Software Development Engineer Collabera - Remote May 2018 to October 2018 Skills:  Golang HTML CSS SOA Docker Relational Databases Git Kanban Linux Web Applications    Achievements:  • Internal microservice web application for coordinating and documenting user requests pertaining to internal authentication services  • Coordinated virtual machine provisioning, certificate provisioning, and deployment of binaries to multiple datacenters Software Developer Code Willing 2016 to 2018 Description:  Code Willing develops data analytics tools, software and services that allow users to easily extract value from large, complex, real-time and historical time series data sets.    Skills:  Golang Python Docker Vagrant PostgreSQL C Git Kanban Linux Concourse Continuous Integration    Achievements:  • Facilitated interactions between multiple client applications, a database, and a job grid engine. To ensure data integrity and ease of use, I wrote a transaction based API for client interactions. The application was written in Golang.    • Collaborated with team to build continuous integration pipelines for each of our projects. Using Concourse and Docker, we wrote pipelines that used the same semantic versioning across our suite of products. At the end of each pipeline, we tagged the binary with a title and version then uploaded them to Amazon S3 for deployment.    • Adapted a high-throughput Golang API for use in client Python scripts. Using C and the cgo Golang package, I wrapped the Golang API with a C API. This was then exposed as a Python package using the C Foreign Function Interface.    • Interacted with clients to adopt and generalize their processing logic. Processing logics were mostly single Python scripts, that over time I translated into a robust library for data translation and processing across multiple vendors and data types. The library was written in Python.    • Extended functionality of Jupyter Lab, a popular tool used by data scientists. To extend Jupyter Lab, I created a Jupyter Notebook extension using IPython which opened a route for users to interface directly with our product suite. Teaching Assistant CSE Washington University - St. Louis, MO 2016 to 2016 Rapid Prototype Development and Creative Programming    Description:  This course introduces aspects of rapid prototype development and creative thinking. Students develop necessary skills to develop modern applications for the new world of Web 2.0. Concepts covered include: LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, PHP), AJAX (Asynchronous JavaScript and XML), XML-RPC (Remote Procedure Calls), script languages for rapid prototyping (Perl, Python), CMSs (Content Management Systems), current web APIs and new development tools and libraries.    Skills:  MongoDB Express.JS AngularJS NodeJS HTML CSS JavaScript Linux Apache MySQL PHP AJAX Perl Python    Responsibilities:  Proctor lab hours twice a week, answer student questions, grade finished projects and conduct personal office hours for students needing additional assistance or for project demonstrations. Junior Software Engineer Netchex - Covington, LA June 2014 to 2015 Description:  Netchex is one of the fastest growing Payroll, Human Resource, Time and Attendance, and Benefits services companies in America.    Skills:  MSSQL .NET MVC AngularJS JavaScript HTML CSS PowerShell Windows Agile Scrum    Achievements:  • Corresponded with clients to determine specifications for ad-hoc reports. Successfully met specifications using MSSQL scripts and Crystal reports.    • Upgraded web pages utilizing Angular to create widgets that displayed content based on user properties.    • Operated in the Agile development methodology    ? Discussed progress at daily standup meetings  ? Planned sprints during bimonthly scrum meetings  ? Analyzed requirements and the state of the product in monthly backlog refinement meetings    • Integrated JReport reporting software with a MSSQL Data store    • Collaborated on an ETL (extract, transform, load) strategy for a major version release Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science Washington University - St. Louis, MO May 2016 Skills DOCKER, Git, PYTHON, SVN, LINUX, MYSQL, POSTGRESQL, MONGODB, KANBAN, Golang (2 years), Python 2 (2 years), Python 3 (2 years), Linux (3 years), TDD (1 year), HTML 5 (1 year), CSS3 (1 year), Vagrant (2 years), Continuous Improvement (3 years), Javascript, CSS Links https://github.com/DavidMcDonnel Additional Information SKILLS  Golang Python C++ C PostgreSQL MSSQL MySQL MongoDB Git SVN Agile Kanban Linux Docker Vagrant Continuous Integration