Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Digital Design | Data Analyst | Web and Software Developer Manhattan, NY I am a self-oriented Information technology professional with experience in programming; web and database design as well as data analytics. My focus is to utilize my skills in an organization that allows me to contribute to the achievement of its objectives. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Developer Leopard Communications Ltd - Nairobi November 2011 to May 2015 1. Development of mobile applications specifically designed to run on Android platforms.  2. Ensuring successful compatibility test of mobile applications deployed across Samsung Smart phones/tablets.  3. Database administration, maintenance, population of database tables using MySQL and Java. This include handling large datasets in 1000's of records for Samsung warranty programs effectively saving time.  4. Installation of relevant software applications with respective system upgrades. Information Communication Technology Support Engineer The Nairobi Hospital - Nairobi, KE May 2008 to August 2008 1. Troubleshoot network related faults; tested network on Quality of Service.  2. Monitored performance with related utilization of computer systems; did configurations for optimum performance in all departments.  3. Administered office multiuser networks which included wireless networks, PBX, as well as other data telecommunication facilities.  4. Offered first-line hardware/ software support.  5. Handled more than 20 requests on average per working day. Education Diploma in Web Design Baruch College - New York, NY 2019 Master of Science in Mobile Computing University of South Wales 2011 Bachelor of Science in Computer Science Kabarak University - Nakuru May 2006 to November 2009 High school or equivalent in Diploma Highway Secondary School - Nairobi February 2002 to November 2005 Skills HTML 5, Android, MySQL, jQuery, PHP, Javascript, Actionscript Links https://www.bweyaomukhulu.com