Technology Analyst Technology Analyst Technology Analyst - Infosys Limited A conscientious, fast learner with 3 year(s) & 4 month(s) of experience offering the ability to assess an organization's needs and create a complementary, robust web presence. Sound Exposure and Experience in Front End and J2EE Development. Work Experience Technology Analyst Infosys Limited October 2018 to Present Role: Developer  • Working as a Technology Analyst for a fifth-largest food and beverage company in the world - Kraft Heinz.  • Write and Consume Restful APIS using Spring Boot to enable the client to provide different types of dashboard regarding their plants and enable different reports functionality.  • Have implemented Schedulers to automate the process of updating report and dashboard data in the system using tool - Azkaban.  • Improve performance of the system by writing asynchronous calls & user-friendly UI using Angular framework for frontend development. Frontend & Backend Developer Azkaban October 2018 to Present Scheduling Tool: Azkaban  Features  • Different dashboard to check performance and activity of different Plants.  • Different reports to validate and verify the order data.  • Mailer of special reports to different ROLE.    ? 2 way SSL Money Transfer with YBL Backend Developer Spring Boot, Maven, NodeJS, Git lab January 2018 to October 2018 Features  • Money transfer to different merchants by IMPS, NEFT, RTGS modes.  • Validation of private and public keys before any transaction. Senior Software Engineer Spice Digital Limited November 2015 to October 2018 Role: Developer  • 2 year(s) & 11 month(s) of experience in Software Development, Requirement Analysis, Business Analysis and Quality Assurance with sound knowledge of complete SDLC.  • Working knowledge in the development of Web based applications.  • Extensive experience in Web Application Development using Skills mentioned above.  • Strong software developing expertise including designing/modeling, programming/coding of server side components also.  • Conducting various testing for the software modules under varying conditions and analyzing the behavior of the system under multi-user environment.  • Identifying, analyzing defects, questionable functions, errors, and inconsistencies in software program functions, outputs and content.    Projects Undertaken  ? Process Order  Technologies Used: Spring Boot, Angular5, Maven, Git lab. Frontend & Backend Developer AngularJS November 2016 to December 2017 Angular Material, requireJS, J2EE, Spring MVC, Git lab.  Project Duration: November 2016 to December 2017  Role: Frontend & Backend Developer  Live URL: https://web.umang.gov.in/web/  Features  • Single interface provides support of 13 languages, different govt. services like CBSE, NCERT, Kisan Suvidha, DigiLocker, eSaarthi, EPFO etc.  • Application is available in Android, IOS, Web and Windows platforms.  • Integrated with Customer Support by Chat(in 13 languages) and 24 hours available tollfree as well.    ? Aadhaar Services  Technologies Used: AngularJS & Spring MVC. Frontend Developer FingerPrint Scanning May 2016 to October 2016 Features  • Provide eKYC of Agent & Sender.  • Provide Aadhaar registered mobile Update.  • Provide Aadhaar registered email Update.    ? AOB (Agent Onboard) Frontend & Backend Developer AngularJS April 2015 to November 2015 Live URL: https://b2b.spicesafar.com  Features  • Provide 3 level of approve/reject process of Agent onBoarding, Sender KYC & PAN Card.  • Provide Yearly/Monthly/Weekly Agent onBoarding Reports.  • Provide Top 3 State wise highest remittance Agent & Per day Remittance from our model.  • Provide single or multiple Addition/Deletion of IFSC Code of Banks.    ? Worked on Spice Money (issued by Spice Digital Ltd.) is a RBI approved Semi-closed PPI wallet linked to your Mobile Number. A robust and convenient tool for financial inclusion, Spice Money is predominantly used for Domestic Money Remittance, through agent assisted model.  Technologies Used: AngularJS, J2EE, Spring MVC, Git Lab. Frontend Developer AngularJS June 2015 to October 2015 https://spicemudra.com Education Bachelor of Engineering in Engg. & Tech PTU - Jalandhar, Punjab, IN SD Senior Secondary School - Hoshiarpur, Punjab, IN S.S.M.SR Model School - Hoshiarpur, Punjab, IN Additional Information Key Technical Skills  • Operating System Windows, Linux  • Programming Languages Core Java, J2EE, JSP, Servlet, Spring MVC, Spring boot,  HTML, Javascript, CSS, AngularJS 1.X, Angular5, Angular Material, Bootstrap  • Development Environment Eclipse IDE, NetBeans, Visual Studio Code, Notepad++  • Deployment Tools WINSCP, PUTTY  • Version Control Tools SVN, Git Lab  Co-Curricular  • Awarded as Employee of the Quarter - AMJ - 2016, AMJ - 2017, JAS - 2017, JAS - 2018 in Spice Digital Limited  Declaration  I, Rohit kumar hereby declare that information given above is true to my knowledge and is up to date.    Rohit kumar