UI Developer UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> UI Developer - Altice USA, New York New York, NY 2+ years of experience in web development, software development, Object-Oriented programming and test-driven development and a Recent Graduate with master's degree in Computer Science. Work Experience UI Developer Altice USA, New York November 2018 to Present • Involved in Software development work for Altice USA applications - Altice One and Altice One Mini.  • Work on Agile methodology for high productive Sprints and involve in daily stand-up meetings for better co-ordination and software development.  • Major participation in Analysis and Design of use cases, technical discussions with architect and for the team development code reviews.  • Creating requirement documents and design the requirement using UML diagrams, Class diagrams, Use Case diagrams for new enhancements.  • Implemented a search algorithm on the list page that returns the search response with product details in less than 30 milliseconds.  • Analyze complex requirements, procedures, and resolve problems to improve existing system software design and support User-Interface application used over Set-top box for Altice.  • Develop Front End application components for IPTV (Television over Wireless protocol) and scalable UI resolution for Altice-One Mini Set-Top Box.  • Enhance the User Interface and re-designing a responsive UI for Altice-One Set-Top Box in all resolutions using Media queries, Angular 4, JavaScript, HTML and Require Js.  • Extensive use of Java-script Object notation to communicate with various server systems and back-end systems for exchanging data to provide interactive user experience.  • Review and modify programs to ensure high performance User Interface, rich UI experience and reliability by using different SDK's for Altice-One and Altice-One Mini Boxes.  • Developed API for using AWS Lambda to manage the servers and run the code in the AWS.  • Used AWS Cloud Formation Templates to simplify provisioning and management on AWS.  • Develop technical test cases over Set-top Box functionality and provide documentation for respective modules for Quality Analysis and Quality Inspection.  • Create Documentation for every Software Module and update existing Unit Test documents with modifications and upgrades  • Involve in Quality assessment and Quality Certification with third-party vendors to meet  expectation of their respective user applications over Altice Platforms. Software Developer JB Hunt Transports, Arkansas August 2018 to October 2018 • Experience in UI Architecture design using Angular JS (1.5/2) components. Thorough understanding of core concepts like Ng Modules, Services, Dependency Injection, and Decorators.  • Validated forms using Angular 2 and regular expressions there by providing client-side validation and server validation.  • Responsible for developing the UI pages using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JBPM, AngularJS (1.5/2), NodeJS, JSON.  • Developed Honey pot field and zip-code validation for contact us page using HTML, CSS, JavaScript and Vanilla JavaScript.  • Converted data from MySQL database into JSON or XML format files and retrieve useful information using AJAX calls to display them on the browser.  • Experience in JavaScript unit testing using frameworks like JUnit, Jasmine. Software Developer INTRO solutions - Hyderabad, Telangana January 2015 to December 2015 • Involved in Analysis, Design, Development and Testing of the application.  • Used AngularJS framework to bind HTML (views) to JavaScript objects (models).  • Responsible for Design and development of Web pages using HTML, JavaScript, CSS including Ajax controls and XML.  • Actively involved in writing the PL/SQL queries to access data from oracle database.  • Designed complex application database SQL statements for querying, updating and reporting using JDBC. Education Master of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science University of Texas - Arlington, TX December 2017 Bachelor of Technology in Computer Science in Computer Science Amrita School of Engineering - Bengaluru, Karnataka May 2015 Skills C++ (1 year), Git (2 years), HTML (2 years), JAVASCRIPT (2 years), aws (1 year), Angular (2 years), Front End development (2 years), CSS3 (2 years), React (1 year), Node, node (2 years), putty (1 year), SQL (2 years), REST API (2 years), MySQL (2 years), Apache (1 year), Shell Scripting (1 year), Ajax (1 year), Front End, UI, Front-End, Bootstrap, HTML5 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Programming: C, C++, Java, HTML, CSS, JavaScript.  Other: Bootstrap, JQuery, AJAX, Node.js, Putty, SQLite, JSON, MySQL, REST, SOAP, TCP/IP protocols, Apache 2.4, GIT, Shell Scripting, AWS.  Tools: Application Life Cycle Manager, JIRA, Confluence, Git, SVN, WebSphere, TFS, Eclipse, Tomcat, Selenium, IntelliJ, Visual Studio  Operating Systems: Windows, Unix, Linux, macOS.