Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer Richmond, VA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Developer January 2015 to Present Made a algorithmic bitcoin and altcoin trading bot that is profitable in bear and bull markets.  Made a popular altcoin faucet that had around 24,000 people before shutting down. Education Associate in Information Technology J. Sargent Reynolds Community College 2017 to 2019 Skills C# (4 years), CSS (Less than 1 year), PHP (3 years), MySQL (2 years), Javascript (2 years), Java (1 year), HTML (Less than 1 year), ASP, Jquery, Node.JS Links http://github.com/MopsieX/ Additional Information Technical Skills    ? Game Development - Using C#, PHP, and the Unity Game Engine, created a web browser game based on the original Snake game on the old Nokia phones. Had over 24000 registered players before shutting down.    ? C# - 4 years of programming experience creating software, games, dlls, and mobile apps. Created an advanced algorithmic Bitcoin/Altcoin trading bot. Experience with interacting with MySQL and MongoDB databases.    ? PHP - 3 years of programming experience for back-end development on projects including a messaging system that uses long polling to check for new messages from a MySQL database. Experience creating mods for the Simple Machines Forum software and several other web software.    ? Java - 1 year experience using Java to develop software and apps including a database management application for my website to make administering it easier.    ? Javascript - Experience with writing Javascript code for websites and Node.JS scripts. Using Node.JS I have created several back-end server applications to do various tasks. I also have experience using jQuery and AJAX.    ? MySQL - Experience using MySQL databases and writing advanced queries.    ? HTML, CSS - Familiar with and basic understanding of these languages. I have a lot of experience editing already made web designs.