Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer - Verizon • Involved in Analysis, Design, Development and Testing phases of the project  • Involved in designing, developing and configuring server side J2EE components like JSP, Servlets, JDBC, and XML using IDE- Eclipse, STS.  • Used design patterns like Data Access objects and MVC  • Implemented Java persistence using Hibernate framework.  • Used SOAP UI to test the web service request/response scenarios.  • Used deployment & Continuous Integration (CI) tools like Maven, PCF and Jenkin.  • Developed unit test cases using JUnit and helped testers in end-to-end testing. Work Experience Software Developer Verizon - Tampa, FL December 2017 to Present • Development, testing, debugging and ongoing maintenance of new and existing code in agile environment.  • Deploying the application into cloud (PCF) using CI & CD pipeline and Jenkins.  • Using log4J for logging exceptions and tracers.  • Created a Nightly Batch Job by consuming a SOAP webservice.  • Used Redis cache to store data in cache for drop down option.  • Using XSLT to transform the XO's XML to ETMS XML.  • Involved in the requirement gathering and integrating the XO ticket application into ETMS (Enterprise Ticket Management System).  • Develop, unit test, software modules for ETMS-XO interface using Java/J2EE. Working with value team facilitator to understand, develop complex modules. Integrating these modules with existing software modules.  Environments: Java/J2EE, XSL & XSD, soap UI, REST & SOAP, UNIX, Spring Tool Suite, JDBC, PCF, Redis Cache, Jira. Software Developer Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs - Washington, DC October 2016 to November 2017 • Involved in the requirement gathering and the formulation of functional specifications and testing of the applications called CMS and CIS.  • PL/SQL queries and JDBC module is developed for querying the database to get members. Maintained the data layer using JDBC as part of one of the integration points of the application.  • Generated reports for monthly, quarterly, half- yearly and yearly using UNIX scripts, and validated the fields in the database and connected to the database using JDBC connections.    • Directly loading of the CSV file into the database by writing the java code. Project status tracking and opening tickets using Remedy. Deployed the project using WebSphere application server (WAS).  • Evaluated and solved trouble tickets by coordinating with DBAs and my Java team.  • JIRA for trouble tickets and Confluence for our knowledge base.  Environments: Java/J2EE, JSP, UNIX, Eclipse, JDBC, IBM Web Sphere, DB2, Remedy, IBM RTC Software Developer Capital One, Virginia, Richmond - Richmond, VA April 2016 to September 2016 • Deployed the application on Amazon Web services (AWS) and used it to provide a large computing capacity for scalable solutions.  • Experience with spring framework and their modules like spring MVC, dependency injection.  • Involved in Designing restful API's for enrolling a customer, using JAX-RS and jersey frameworks.  • Provided POC (proof of concept) for batch process using Amazon lambda function, and triggering the batch process using amazon cloud watch, and sent the sample notifications using amazon simple notification service (SNS).  • Experience in development of data layer components using JPA annotations, Hibernate, JDBC.  • Created Java Clients and controller for consuming a restful Web service called email age.  • Project Status and Assigning stories in Version One and Jira, proficient in version controls such as GIT.  • Deployed applications into Continuous integration environments like Jenkins to integrate and deploy code on CI environments for development testing.  Environments: Java/J2EE, Spring, Eclipse, AWS, GIT, Bootstrap, CSS, HTML5, Apache Tomcat, Linux, PostgreSQL, Hibernate, SOAP and Restful Web services, Maven. Software Developer Swift Trip LLC - Jeffersonville, IN August 2015 to March 2016 • Gathered user requirements, analyzed and wrote functional and technical specifications.  • Produced and Consumed in RESTful Web services in JSON also developed web services using SOAP.  • Designed and developed travel engine website for 3rd party client International Cruise and Excursion (ICE)and upkeep and main existing client websites.  • Created java clients for Sabre REST web services, and created Single Sign on page for ICE. So that ICE user can directly login into Swift Trip travel engine website.  • Used WINSCP for secured file transfer.  • Project status and assigned tickets using JIRA.  • Employed Scrum concepts of Agile Development Methodology for software development.  Environments: Java, Spring, Eclipse, Bootstrap, AJAX, CSS, HTML5, Apache Tomcat, Linux, JDBC, SOAP and REST Web Services, Servlet, Maven. Education Master of Science in Electrical Engineering Wright State University - Dayton, OH August 2013 to May 2015 Bachelor of Engineering in Electronic & Communication Engineering Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University - Hyderabad, Telangana August 2009 to May 2013 Skills ECLIPSE, JAVA, HIBERNATE, SPRING, jQuery