Software Developer I <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> I Software Developer I - Expedia Work Experience Software Developer I Expedia July 2017 to Present Loyalty Engineering Team (Application Dev)  • Unified Schema creation to improve data quality as part of building One Loyalty Platform for Expedia.    • Modifying App role to get rid of generating access token for Aws after every 90 days of expiry.    • Proposing architecture and implementing same for sending updates to multiple micro services for updating    cache as and when there are changes in source service.  EWE Database Developer  • Database Migration from On-premise to AWS.    • Backtrack cause for latency in DB and implement changes to cleanup and optimize the same.    • Infrastructure setup and maintenance for various DBs like MongoDB, PostgreSQL, Oracle.    • Understanding & designing loyalty point system to cater to multiple sources of loyalty points. Event Management 2018 to 2018 tool internal to Expedia for automating registration process and    implementing waiting list concept for the same. (Python using Django Framework)  • Automate compilation of data through multiple sources to showcase at a single point (used by VP).    • Event Based Tweet Summarization (2016). Automatic Summary generation of events on Twitter. Generated    extractive summary associated with any hashtag entered by the user. (Python, MySQL) Software Developer, Intern NIIT Technologies February 2017 to May 2017 • Developed Flight Booking Application    • Stack used: MEAN Stack (MongoDB, Express, AngularJS, NodeJS) Python Micro Framework-Flask 2016 to 2016 Analyzed stock and twitter data for past week    and predicted stock market status using Machine Learning Algorithm. (Python Micro Framework-Flask) Technical Fest of the college 2016 to 2016 Developed website for Technical Fest of the college. The website was used for    user registration to keep a track of the popularity of events being organized in the fest. (PHP, MySQL) Software Developer, Intern STRIDE June 2015 to August 2015 • Developed an internship portal for applicants and companies    • Stack used: PHP, AJAX, JavaScript, MySQL    LANGUAGES AND TECHNOLOGIES  Programming  C, C++, PHP, Python, Java(Core), JavaScript, AJAX, Angular JS, JQuery, HTML, T-SQL Former Technical Executive Online Quiz 2015 to 2015 with several levels of coding and technical questions. Won the Best    Software Developers Team for the event. (PHP, HTML, CSS, MySQL)  ADDITIONAL EXPERIENCE AND AWARDS  • Won Second prize in Data Hackathon conducted in college. The aim was to calculate and compare the    popularity, social media footprint of various colleges.  • Best Developer Award for developing a technical event for the college fest.    • Former Technical Executive of college chapter of STRIDE (an educational startup)    • Associated with an NGO - Leaders for Tomorrow (LFT).    • Core Team Member of Website team of college's technical fest, Innerve. Education Bachelor of Technology in Technology Indira Gandhi Delhi Technical University for Women - Delhi, DELHI, IN 2013 to 2017 J.D Tytler School Additional Information Technologies  SQL Server, MongoDB, PostgreSQL, various Amazon Web Services, Docker