Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> • Having 2.5 years of experience in IT industry.  • Eager to learn new technologies  • Excellent debugging and problem-solving skills.  • Flexible to adapt to new environments.  • Good communication and inter-personal skills.  • Ability to handle multiple tasks while ensuring a high quality of work.  • Passionate about finding solutions and creating something new.  • Effective English verbal and written communication skills.    PROJECTS    1. RDA - Application Development, Maintenance and Support (5th Sep 16 - Till Date)  Domain: Vendor Management Tool    Client: AT&T    Role: Application Developer    Technology: Core Java, Servlet, JSP, JavaScript, ColdFusion, Oracle 11g    Duration: Ongoing    RDA is a tool which maintain suits of application which is used for creation tracking and implementation of  small-scale business requirement. RDA Tool used to gather business requirement at single place traverse it  through different application with its changing progress status and track all its end to end details till  completion.    Responsibilities Undertaken:    • The project portfolio includes development, maintenance and support.  • Development and customization of Client Applications.  • Requirements Gathering and Analysis of the requirement.  • Responsible for providing new functionalities or modify existing functionalities based on  clients need.  • Preparation of unit test cases, unit testing and performing code review.  • Responsible for deployment and managed live application.  • Focal for Database Migration Project  • Focal for Java -Websphere upgrade Project    2. Elevation Activities: KYE (Know Your Employee)  Domain: Telecom Engineering Services    Client: Amdocs Internal tool    Role: Developer    Technology: Java, Servlet, JSP, JavaScript, Oracle 11g    Duration: 5 months    KYE is an Amdocs Internal tool created to track Employee skills. The tool automatically extracts skills data  from another database. Employees can also add specific skills to their skillset. Manager can extract reports  on their Employees with skills relevant to them.    Responsibilities Undertaken:    • The project portfolio includes development, maintenance and support.  • Development and customization of Client Applications.  • Requirements Gathering and Analysis of the requirement.  • Responsible for providing new functionalities or modify existing functionalities based on  users' needs.  • Preparation of unit test cases, unit testing and performing code review.  • Responsible for deployment and managed live application.    3. Elevation Activities: Productivity Report  Domain: Telecom Engineering Services    Client: Amdocs Internal tool    Role: Developer    Technology: PowerBI    Duration: Ongoing    Productivity Report is developed for Leadership to assess the productivity of Employees. It is designed to  find productivity at Director, Manager, GL and individual Employee level. It collects data from various  sources like Live Defects, Tickets, Project work, Maintenance work, Rapid Development and projects it  against the Work Hour time. It is useful to find shortcoming and helps find areas of improvement.    Responsibilities Undertaken:    • Existing report was converted from Excel to PowerBI within 2 months  • Responsible for providing new functionalities or modify existing functionalities based on  users' needs.  • Focal for all PowerBI development at Line level.    4. JEMS Fees Management System Freelance (June 2015 - Till Date)    Client: JEMS School Jabalpur    Role: Developer    Technology: C# .Net, Microsoft SQL Server    Duration: Ongoing    JEMS Fees Management System is a Windows Desktop Application which is custom designed software to  suit the need of JEMS School. It provides services like multiclient support, student record management  system, fees management system, on-demand report generation. It also has many features specific to the  institution's requirements.    Responsibilities Undertaken:    • The project portfolio includes development, testing, maintenance and support.  • Development and customization of Client Applications.  • Requirements Gathering and Analysis of the requirement.  • Responsible for providing new functionalities or modify existing functionalities on the basis of  clients need.  • Preparation of test cases and testing.  • Responsible for deployment and managed live application.  • Play Admin role of application at some extent in case of need. Work Experience Software Developer September 2016 to Present Education B. Eng. in Technology & Sciences Gyan Ganga Institute - Jabalpur, MADHYA PRADESH, IN 2016 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Technology: Python, Java, Android, C# .Net    Platforms: MS Windows 2000/XP/Vista/7/10    Languages Known: Python, Django, Core Java, JSP, Servlet, JavaScript, HTML, SQL, C#    Databases: Oracle 11g, MS SQL Server, SQLite    Microsoft Visual Studio, SQL Server Management Studio, SQL  Tools:  Developer, Eclipse, Android Studio, Notepad++, Apache Tomcat