Software Engineer <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Software Engineer - Century Link Pvt Ltd ? A dynamic professional with over 2.5 years of rich experience in building Java/J2EE based scalable and performant services.  ? Experienced in developing application using JDK 7/8, Java, Spring.  ? Experience in using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery framework for developing user interfaces of web applications.  ? Responsible for all aspects of software development lifecycle - planning, requirement gathering and functional specification.  ? Expertise in various Design Patterns, Multithreading, Concurrency API, Serialization and their application uses when building modules.  ? Experience in developing JEE development frameworks using JEE design patterns like singleton, MVC, Factory and DAO in designing & implementing the architecture of large application.  ? Insightful and customer focused developer with a penchant for working in a fast paced agile environment. Passionate about working on products that directly impact the users.  ? Experience on building tools such as Putty. Work Experience Software Engineer Century Link Pvt Ltd March 2016 to Present CORE COMPETENCIES\SKILLS:  Functional Skillset:  • Technical leadership in new technologies and good verbal/written communication skills.  • Ability to work independently or work with 4-5 junior engineers.  • Committed to completing projects and meeting targets on schedule with quality deliverables.  • Quick learner and keen on learning new technologies with precise attention to details.    Technical Expertise:  • OS Platforms: Microsoft Windows, Linux  • Languages: Java, J2EE, OOPS concepts  • Frameworks: Spring  • Web Services: Rest Web-service  • Server Application: Apache Tomcat 7.0  • Database: MySQL  • Project Management Tool: Putty  • IDE: Eclipse  • Other Tools: CA Agile, Putty, SSH Client Software Developer Century Link Pvt Ltd March 2016 to Present Project 1: Contract Management and CPS  Duration: March 2016 to till date  Domain: Payment Application.  Team Size: 15  Environment: Java, J2E, Oracle, Eclipse, Spring, JavaScript, JSP, HTML, CSS  Role: Software Developer.    Project Description:  There has been a growing need for CenturyLink to sign contracts with various Competitive Local Exchange Carriers (CLECs, otherwise called as service providers) to lease their telephone lines, use their network/circuits to provide various Telecom service to the end users, to avoid monopoly, etc. These competitors can purchase certain type of services from CenturyLink by engaging in a contract. And then they will operate their whole set of services in their regions.  The Co-Provider Services (CPS)/Contract Management (COMA) modules of CenturyLink are developed for CenturyLink to maintain and manage USOC/rate information, contract information between CenturyLink - CLECs respectively. The purpose of CPS and COMA is mainly for billing and contract management with CLECs    Responsibilities:  ? Design, development and programming in Java/J2E.  ? Worked on the design and development of the applications as per business requirements.  ? Involved in end to end testing.  ? Migrating code to production.  ? Dev support in production issues.  ? Experienced with creating and deploying web pages using HTML, JSP, JavaScript and CSS.  ? Maintained, developed and fixed bugs for applications.  ? Documented and unit tested website code and applications. Education Bachelor of Engineering in Engineering Visvesvaraya Technological University