Software UI Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software UI Developer - USAA San Antonio, TX ? 5+ years of experience in developing user Interface application and professional web applications  using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript (ES6), jQuery, Angular2, AJAX and JSON, React JS, Bootstrap  ? Having experience in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including Analysis,  design, Development, Deployment, Documentation, Testing, Version control and product support.  ? Having the great experience in developing and maintaining the web pages  ? Having experience in various IDEs like Eclipse, Notepad++, WebStorm, Sublime Text, Adobe  Dreamweaver.  ? Experience in using Jenkins for continuous integration and continuous deployment.  ? Having experience in client side designing and validations using HTML and JavaScript.  ? Having a good experience in dealing with CSS Backgrounds, Layouts, Animations, Positioning,  Text, Border, Padding and CSS Box Model.  ? Built data visualizations to monitor file server load, Web server speed, jQuery and MySQL.  ? Capability in building Web User Interface (UI) by using the HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript that  follows W3C Web Standards and are browser compatible.  ? Strong expertise in the iterative Agile and Scrum development methodologies for software  development  ? Having experience on working with cutting edge front-end technologies/framework and libraries like  jQuery, Prototype, JSON, DOM, CSS, XML, AJAX. Work Experience Software UI Developer USAA - San Antonio, TX August 2019 to Present Working on TCS implementation project at end client location of USAA. UI software developer Scientific Games Corporation, Inc - Alpharetta, GA July 2016 to April 2019 Software Engineer 1  ? Worked on one of the standard products iVIEW1/iVIEW3/iVIEW4 for developing flash content.  ? Created the UI interface using Flash, JavaScript, jQuery, CSS3 and HTML5  ? Worked on the product named WCM with Angular technologies for building SPA.  ? Strong experience in developing content using XML and ActionScript 3.0  ? Involved working on apps upgrade, development and support projects along with QA bug fixes.  ? Experience working on developing custom EBS flex rewards games using flash.  ? Created design mock-ups and wireframes using MS PowerPoint, Adobe Photoshop CS5 and Dreamweaver CS3, Flash CS6  ? Got opportunity to interact with different kinds of products such as EBS, SDS, CMP, Kiosk.  ? Responsible for delivery content to the customer after all bug fixes and its working.  ? Collaborated with team members in design, analysis, coding, testing and content review.  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, VNC, Angular2, Type Script, JavaScript, Perforce. Software Engineer Copart Inc - Dallas, TX August 2015 to December 2015 Extensively worked in IT product development group with hands on experience of technologies like HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, JavaScript, PHP, AJAX, MySQL. Developed form-based GUI widget for  www.carswithheart.com web site using HTML5, CSS3. Also completed necessary client-side  validations of the form widget using jQuery.  ? Completed Google map implementation for contact us page of the web site using Google Map API  in JavaScript.  ? Implemented fully functional Captcha for the web form to prevent unwanted spam using PHP GD  library & AJAX. Added advance audio functionality to captcha.  ? Worked on active navigation menu for the www.carswithheart.com web site that includes  highlighting parent when submenu is clicked using jQuery & CSS. Also completed manual dry run  validation testing of a form widget.  ? Involved in migration using React JS.  ? Added Google Analytics tracking code for the website & worked on the cross-browser solutions.  ? Interacted with other teams such as network, database, dev-ops to satisfy customer need and complete project on time.  ? Familiarity with dashboards, user stories creation, tasks, test driven development, tracking project  progress & following Agile Scrum project management methodology using JIRA tool & Git tool for version control.  Environment - JavaScript, jQuery, PHP, MySQL, Salesforce, Git, Jenkins, Bitbucket, React JS Web Developer September 2011 to April 2013 Developed various websites based on Joomla & WordPress CMS especially with Coupon press & Clipper themes.  ? Experience related to white-hat SEO, PPC, back-link analysis, affiliate marketing, content  development, blog posting, various SEO Campaigns, Google Ad Words keyword tool, Keyword  research, WordPress plugins.  ? Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) which includes  requirement gathering, modelling, analysis, architecture design and prototyping.  ? Involved in developing user interfaces using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, JSON  ? Worked closely with Photoshop designers to implement mock-ups and the layouts of the web  applications  ? Extensively used FileZilla client for uploading files to web server.  ? Blog posting, link building experience to leverage SEO for web portals.  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, WordPress, Joomla, SEO, PPC. Education Master of Science in Information Technology & Management Campbellsville University August 2020 Master of Science in Computer Science The University of Texas at Dallas - Dallas, TX December 2015 Bachelor of Engineering in Computers University of Mumbai May 2010 Skills Git, Javascript, Bootstrap, Jenkins, Svn, Xml, Ajax, Html5, Java, jquery, Actionscript, Perforce, Database, Mysql, Sql, Sdlc, Cassandra, Mongodb, Cms, Linux Links https://github.com/amolvaze Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Languages HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, XML, ActionScript 3.0, Python3, SQL,  Java    Framework Bootstrap, NodeJS, React.JS, Angular2    Database MongoDB, MySQL, Cassandra    Tools/Source Jenkins, Git, SVN, Bitbucket, Perforce  Controls  CMS WordPress, Joomla    Methodologies SDLC, Agile, Scrum    Operating Windows 7/8/10, Linux  System