Job Seeker • Over 5+ years of professional experience as a Java J2EE Developer in Object Oriented development, implementation, analysis, design, development, customization, testing and implementation of software applications moreover deployment of web and distributed Enterprise applications on AWS platform with exposure to multiple Amazon services.  • Experience in designing and developing web-based applications using Java, J2EE, Web Services, both SOAP/WSDL and REST, MVC framework, Spring Security 3.2, Spring 4.x, Hibernate 4.x, Struts 2.x, Oracle and SQL.  • Hands on experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Integration, Deployment and Maintenance of Web services, Client Server and Web based applications using J2EE/Java, JSP, JavaScript and Servlets.  • Worked on various spring modules (Spring Core, Spring MVC 4.x/3.x, DAO and AOP) along with Hibernate as the back-end ORM 4.x/3.x tool for implementation of persistence layer and mapping of POJOs.  • Implemented DAO layers using JPA standards and Hibernate API interfaces.  • Expertise in Database application programming for MySQL 5.5, server using Stored Procedures, Triggers, Views etc.  • Expertise in Amazon Cloud Services and its features AWS EC2, VPC, EBS, AMI, snapshots, Auto scaling, Cloud Formation, Lambda, SES, SQS, SNS, RDS, ELB, EBS, Cloud Watch, S3 etc.  • Exposure to NoSQL database programming - MongoDB, Cassandra.  • Technical hands on expertise in developing a massively scalable distributed application using HDFS, Hive, Map Reduce, Sqoop, Spark.  • Experience in web standards front-end development including HTML 4.0 and 5, CSS 2.1/3, unobtrusive JavaScript with the jQuery framework and AJAX technologies.  • Experienced in implementing presentation layer using JSP, HTML 5, CSS3, Ajax, JQuery, Java script and servlets.  • Experienced with IBM Web Sphere Application Server and Apache Tomcat Application Server 7.x/8.  • Experience in using version control tools like GIT.  • Incorporated continuous integration/continuous deployment (CI/CD) using tools like Jenkins.  • Involved in creating and executing Unit test cases using JUnit 4.x.  • Implemented Agile Scrum software development methodology and Test-Driven Development (TDD) to provide high quality solutions by using tools like JIRA.  • Excellent analytical, logical and programming skills, Self-Motivated, Self-Starter, Team Player can work with minimal supervision with effective Communication skills and Organizational skills combined with attention and Time management skills. Work Experience J&J - Somerset, NJ October 2018 to Present TEAM: AI-CORN    • J&J Automation platform called Ai-Corn that aims to implement innovative approaches and commit to achieving significant decreases in price/ticket and ticket volumes through automation.  • Use Spring MVC framework on the server side for creating Restful web services by giving JSON out and modifying the DOM object on UI, by making HTTP calls and used GET and PUT.  • Develop System Governance module in the Ai Corn application structured by Singleton design Pattern and supported by Dijkstra algorithm.  • Developing views and templates with Python and Django's to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Created multiple mid-tier services to interact with multiple validations and worked on entitlements services to do user validations Interaction and also worked on applying security systems.  • Wrote SQL commands and Stored Procedures to retrieve data from Oracle database. Worked to plug this procedure in Java classes.  • Developed the application using Singleton, Business Delegate and Data Transfer Object design patterns in the project.  • Constructed Spring Boot four layers including model, DAO, service and controller. Manipulated database with Hibernate and created Entity to interact with persistence. Integrated users with roles and granted users with three kinds of permissions. Normalized complicated relationships among tables to optimize database structure.  • Implemented RESTful Web services to retrieve data from client side and made REST API calls from Angular 2 and parsed the data to project to client and handled the security and Authorization using Spring Security and OAuth.  • Executed various MySQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL DB package.  • Working on KCS by identified with maximum number of incidents using Mosaic automation tool.  • Implemented AWS solutions using EC2, S3, RDS, ECS, EBS, Elastic Load Balancer, Auto scaling groups, Optimized volumes and EC2 instances.  • Build servers using AWS, importing volumes, launching EC2, RDS, creating security groups, auto-scaling, load balancers (ELBs) in the defined virtual private connection and open stack to provision new machines for clients.  • Working on numerous Python modules. Built dB context, run context and other python objects that's reused by application.  • Developing UI using AngularJS, jQuery and JSON. Developed dynamic webpages through HTML5, CSS, JavaScript and AJAX.  • Developed automation platform "Discovery", an automation application of Mosaic which governs, auto reduce, map and create report of all the enterprise tickets.  • Guide offshore team to enhance and improve the application using entities and relationships through cognitive intelligence such as Orchestrator and Intelligent Command Center of Ai-Corn application. JAVA FULL STACK DEVELOPER DELOITTE - Nashville, TN March 2018 to October 2018 • Worked on TED's-TEN Healthcare project for State of Tennessee.  • Involved in design and development of a user-friendly enterprise application using Java 1.8, Spring Boot, Hibernate, Web services, Eclipse.  • Followed Agile methodology standards for design specifications of the application and Microservices architectural pattern. JIRA has been used for bug tracking and Agile sprints.  • Involved in the overall system analysis, design, development, and documentation.  • Developed structural modules in the project using the JSP with JSTL, Servlet, Spring MVC and EJB alongside JDBC for handling database access on the platform of in-house framework NEXTGEN.  • Used JDBC for handling the database access, write Pl / SQL queries to do CRUD operations on database.  • Unit Test integration, acceptance testing with test cases and resolving priorities issue assigned on JIRA related to the support system.  • Developed and rectifying backend code based on business requirements by using Bitbucket as version control system.    PROJECT 2: ATLANTA, GA  END CLIENT: STATE GOVT. OF GEORGIA  ROLE: JAVA FULL STACK DEVELOPER    • Involved in design, development and support phases.  • Developed and designed user interface by using HTML, CSS, JSP using Deloitte integrated framework.  • Developed Java functions for client-side validations.  • Scripted Pl-SQL for database logic and used JDBC extensively for database access.  • Design and develop servlets to implement business logic and deploy them on the application server  • Used IBM WES as server.  • Designed and developed servlets and JSP and connected to existing oracle database using JDBC.  • Analyzed business design documents and implemented functional specifications as per the requirement.  • Development of scalable and efficient JAVA code for healthcare transactions.  • Involved in bug fixing and providing hot fixes.  • Responsible for developing and change requests.  • Peer code reviews and ensuring to follow the quality audits.  • Created the JSP front-end pages as per the requirement using JSTL tags.  • Used JavaScript for client-side validations, and AJAX to create interactive front-end GUI.  • Developed and executed testing criteria and scenarios for various modules.  • Ensured that the business and functional requirements outlined in JIRA were traceable to the technical solution via the Jazz as source control management. JAVA DEVELOPER ACCENTURE/ FANNIE-MAE - Reston, VA October 2017 to February 2018 • Exposed to various phases Software Development Life Cycle using Agile - Scrum software development methodology.  • Extensively used Spring framework for dependency injection and transaction management.  • Implemented Spring 4 MVC for navigation and controlling action classes and view pages.  • Developed Data Access Object (DAO) persistence layer using Spring 4, JDBC Template.  • Used Oracle 11g database and developed stored procedures using Oracle PL/SQL and developed complex queries for business data processing.  • Customized XML document and forward the data to downstream applications.  • Incorporated Spring 4 and AOP for alert management to stakeholders.  • Configured Maven for dependency management, Log4j for logging and debugging and Git for version control.  • Developed test cases and performed unit testing using JUnit4 framework in Test Driven Development (TDD) approach.    Environment:  Java/JEE, Spring 4.x Framework, Spring 4.x MVC, JDBC Template, Oracle 11g, XML, Maven, Git, JUnit4, Log4j PROGRAMMER ANALYST MARLABS INC February 2017 to October 2017 ROLE: JAVA FULL STACK DEVELOPER  • Extensively used Spring boot for dependency injection and transaction management.  • Implemented Spring 4 MVC for navigation and controlling action classes and view pages.  • Developed Data Access Object (DAO) persistence layer using Spring 4, JDBC Template.  • Used MySQL database and developed stored procedures using Oracle PL/SQL and developed complex queries for business data processing.  • Configured application with OAuth to achieve desktop SSO.  • Customized XML document and forward the data to downstream applications.  • Incorporated Spring 4 and AOP for alert management to stakeholders.  • Created a single page application using Angular JS 2 for report generation.  • Developed and consumed RESTful API for statistical analysis using JAX-RS.  • Involved in creating UI interface using Bootstrap, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Responsible for implementing Continuous Integration (CI) tools - Jenkins.  • Involved in deploying application on AWS EC2 instances along with connecting to Amazon RDS.  • Hands on Experience in deploying apps to Cloud using Pivotal Cloud Foundry.  • Implemented jQuery, AJAX for loading customer information and other information asynchronously.  • Configure the JIRA workflow for the project for improvement processes for screens, workflow procedures and reports of applications as per business requirement  • Configured Maven for dependency management, Log4j for logging and debugging and Git for version control.  Environment:  Java 7, JSP, JDBC, Spring 4.0, Struts 2.x, Hibernate 4.3.x, Design Patterns, XML, MySQL, MAVEN, HTML5, CSS, JSP, Java Script, jQuery, AngularJS, AJAX, AWS, SVN, UML, Web services, SOAP, XSLT, Jira. SOFTWARE DEVELOPER IKONTEL - IN October 2014 to August 2015 • Developed the web interface using MVC design pattern with Struts framework.  • Designed and implemented most of the Java related portions of the application including EJBs for encapsulating business logic.  • Developed server-side utilities using J2EE technologies Servlets, JSP, JDBC using Eclipse.  • Developed the JSP's using the struts framework tag libraries.  • Developed the Workflow concept using the struts framework to avoid the back-button problems.  • Designed the Front-end screen using JSP, Servlets, XHTML and JavaScript.  • Developed user Interface using JSP, HTML, AJAX, CSS, creating business processes.  • Maintained the struts config files, tiles definition files and web.xml.  • Session Beans are designed in such a way to serve the following: Inserting, updating, and deleting data from the database.  • Developed and executed the business validation logic in form beans.  • The framework involves struts framework, which internally uses the J2EE design patterns.  • Developed the servlets, beans for the application.  • Involved in the application development and unit testing. SOFTWARE DEVELOPER SHRESTHA PVT.LTD May 2013 to October 2014 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for study and analysis of the requirements concerned to Employee module.  • Developed the application using JSP and Servlets.  • Responsible for study and analysis of the requirements in this project.  • Build Front-end pages in JSP and using Tag Libraries.  • Developed classes in Java for connection pooling, modularity and reusability.  • Involved in Business Logic development using Hibernate.  • Strictly followed MVC design pattern in this Web interface.  • Used Java beans to retrieve data from the Back-end database.  • Implemented LOG4J for storing the logs.  • Involved in Unit testing during development phase.    Environment:  Java, JSP, JDBC, Hibernate, MySQL, HTML5, CSS, JSP, Java Script, jQuery Education MASTER OF SCIENCE in COMPUTER SCIENCE New Jersey Institute of Technology - Newark, NJ August 2015 to December 2016 BACHELOR OF TECHNOLOGY in ELECTRONICS & COMMUNICATION ENGINEER Institute of Technical Education & Research September 2009 to September 2013 Skills Eclipse, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jboss, Jms, Jsp, Servlets, Struts, Db2, Jdbc, Sql server, Oracle, Sql, Bootstrap, Html5, Mvc, Soap, User interface Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/erpritam19 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Programming Languages Java 7/8/J2EE, Python  Technologies & Service API's JSP, Servlets, JDBC, JPA, JMS, ESB Web Services.  Web Frameworks/ Open Source Struts, Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Spring Batch, Angular JS, Bootstrap  ORM Hibernate.  Databases Oracle (8i/9i/10g/11g), DB2, My SQL, SQL Server, NoSQL, MongoDB.  Application Servers Oracle Web Logic 8.1/10.3, IBM Web sphere 5.1/6.0/7.0, Apache Tomcat, JBoss.  Web Services AWS, REST, SOAP, WSDL, SOA.  Operating Systems Windows XP/VISTA, UNIX/LINUX.  Apache Tools Log4j, Maven.  Development Tools Eclipse, TDD, IntelliJ.  Testing Tools JUnit, Selenium.  Programming Concepts Object Oriented Programming (OOPS).  User Interface Technologies HTML5, CSS3, Java Script, AJAX, XML, XSLT, X Path.  Version Control SVN, GIT, GitHub.  SDLC Methodologies Agile, Waterfall and Scrum models.