Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer South Bend, IN A detail-oriented and highly dedicated software developer with established skills in programming, unit testing, databases, data acquisition processes, research, agile methodologies, and problem resolution. Possesses a proven ability to develop effective rapport with customers and colleagues. A resourceful and results-oriented innovator who leverages strong organizational and analytical skills to ensure timely completion of high-quality projects. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Developer QUALITY DINING, INC - Mishawaka, IN 2016 to 2017 • Accomplished a sound understanding of ASP .NET applications while converting from VB6 desktop applications.  • Created web based fillable form with application tracking process for restaurants to request adding and/or replacing beverages (typically draft kegs of beer) taking the request through a management approval process to the build process by the DBA's.  • Created a desktop application for employees to clock in and out as well as tracking any employee/manager changes and manager approvals. Associate Software Developer PRESS GANEY - South Bend, IN 2015 to 2016 • Designed and coded application components in an Agile environment utilizing a test driven approach.  • Participated in daily scrums and lead many sprint retrospectives.  • Worked on program to determine which features clients used, requiring deep understanding of databases.  • Gained new skills, processes, and languages such as C#, and SQL, as well as learning unit testing, MVC, and working with legacy code. Research Assistant INDIANA UNIVERSITY - South Bend, IN 2011 to 2013 • Wrote MATLAB code to simplify data acquisition process and allow students and faculty to easily test various transducers in lab.  • Assisted in gathering of data for the study of dark matter at Fermilab.  • Presented findings at Butler University's undergraduate research conference in April of 2012.  • Assisted in improving accuracy and longevity of acoustic transducers used for direct detection dark matter research. Education B.S. in Computer Science INDIANA UNIVERSITY - South Bend, IN 2014 Skills MATLAB (3 years), .NET (1 year), C# (2 years), SQL (2 years), BASH (Less than 1 year) Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/tonyabenjamin Additional Information Technical Skills    Languages: C#, SQL, LINQ, C++, C, Python, JAVA, Bash    Operating Systems: Windows, Unix  Applications: Microsoft Office, MATLAB, Visual Studio