Software Engineer I <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer I Software Engineer I - Walmart Labs ? Developed backend as well as front-end software for various Java and NodeJS applications  Exposed and Consumed REST services using Java and NodeJS  ? Developed applications that used MongoDB, Cassandra, and Azure databases  ? Developed a mobile application using HTML 5, JavaScript, CSS 3 and Angular 4 that is  compatible with iOS and Android  ? Developed Jenkins jobs to automate application deployment  ? Experienced in developing software applications that interface with a database using NodeJS,  Angular 4, and MongoDB  ? Proficient in Java 1.8 programming, including exception handling, collections, multithreading,  and file I/O.  ? Hands-on experience developing software applications that interact with database platforms  SQL (Oracle), NoSQL (MongoDB/Cassandra)  ? Developed scalable APIs used by many teams within the company  ? Created a SPA using React, Redux, Express Framework and NodeJS Work Experience Software Engineer I Walmart Labs October 2016 to Present Software Developer ITC June 2016 to October 2016 Languages  ? NodeJS - proficient  ? Java - proficient  ? Python - prior experience  ? React - proficient  ? Redux - proficient  Walmart Work Experience  Schedule APIs    I have worked on every aspect of this project: design, creation, and deployment to the cloud. I  was also put in charge of setting up monitoring and alerting for the API. At the moment there  are a handful of mobile application teams currently using our APIs. The creation of this API has  made it possible for all of Walmart US, ~5000 stores and clubs, to be removed from using legacy  systems.    Responsibilities:  ? REST web services created using Java and Spring Boot  ? Created a Splunk Instance for logging  ? Integrated Splunk logs with PagerDuty to get notified if something went wrong  ? Designed a Splunk Dashboard that queried the logs for telemetry information    Technologies: Splunk, Java, PagerDuty, RESTful web services    Mobile Schedule  A mobile application that shows an associate their schedule. Before, associates would have a delayed view of their schedules for up to two hours. With the Mobile Schedule we were able to  bring associates' schedules to them in real time.  Responsibilities:    ? Created REST APIs to retrieve associate information  ? Frontend design is written in Angular 4  ? Implemented telemetry using ElasticSearch  ? Designed a Kibana Dashboard to show the application's telemetry    Technologies: NodeJS, Angular 4, ElasticSearch, Kibana, RESTful Web Services    Schedule Reporting System  In order to simplify and better the performance of analyzing associate coverage by store we developed the Schedule Reporting System. The system provides an API which receives, parses, and persists  schedule data on a continuous basis. Business reports are now being generated in minutes instead of  hours.    Responsibilities:  ? Design to Production Development  ? Created a REST API that would simplify SFTP file transfers in NodeJS  ? z/OS and Cassandra table design and implementation  ? Implemented a Kafka messaging queue  ? Designed a Kibana Dashboard using ElasticSearch data  Technologies: NodeJS, RESTful Web Services, Kafka, ElasticSearch, Kibana, z/OS, Cassandra DB    Configuration System  The Configuration System is used by applications in the Global Workforce Management team in order to access both sensitive and configuration information. This provides an extra layer of security for  applications, simplifies the deployment process and reduces the risk of human error.    Responsibilities:  ? Design to Production Development  ? Created a REST API to retrieve an application's configurations  ? MongoDB implementation  ? Implemented ElasticSearch logging    Technologies: NodeJS, RESTful Web Services, MongoDB, ElasticSearch    Revature Projects  Human Resource Management System  The Employee Management Portal enables managers to add, update or delete employees from the existing database through an intranet based web interface. The application enables managers to view  current employee information and also update any information pertaining to new or existing employees.  The employees can login to view their information.    Responsibilities:  ? Applied SOAP to expose methods  ? Used Struts 1.3 Validator framework for validation  ? Struts 1.3 to create the MVC framework  ? Implemented Hibernate mapping to create the Database tables  ? Used Hibernate Query Language to access and input data from the Database    Technologies: Core Java, XML, Struts 1.3, Hibernate 4.0, Maven 3.3, GIT, Oracle 11g, REST, JSP, HTML 5, CSS 3, Bootstrap    Inventory Management System  The system maintains a master product list and monitors inventory levels for each product. To monitor  inbound and outbound logistics, the system provides services for other applications to increment and decrement inventory levels. The interface allows users to perform periodic inventory counts. Reporting and analysis tools compare ideal inventory levels against actual levels, support demand planning  activities, and monitor profitability. Managers can set thresholds for safety stock, and the system will  email the appropriate contact when a product falls below the threshold.    Responsibilities:  ? Accessed the Database from the Java application using JDBC  ? Applied RESTful web services to expose methods to be accessed by the Point of Sale System  ? Created dependencies to integrate between projects using Maven 3.3  ? Created the interface using JSPs, HTML 5, CSS 3, and Bootstrap  ? Passed information from the interface to the Database using Servlets    Technologies: Core Java, Servlet 2.5, JDBC, XML, JSP, HTML 5, CSS 3, Bootstrap, Maven 3.3, GIT, Oracle  11g Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science Georgia Southwestern State University December 2015 Certifications/Licenses Oracle Certified Java Programmer Present