Mobile Software Developer Mobile <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Work Experience Mobile Software Developer Voyomotive - Ypsilanti, MI March 2018 to Present Reverse engineered CAN bus vehicle data, decode CAN1, CAN2, and request respond data.    ? Responsible for VOYO UI design decisions to create visually stimulating and delightful designs  such as UI layout, and user experience.    ? Optimized Swift code and algorithm to reduce iOS application data loading speed up to 50%.    ? Implemented features for iOS version of VOYO application on App store using Swift and Objective-C.    ? Solid experience with Xcode, Interface Builder, Instruments and Static Analyzer including  development, debugging, profiling, optimizing, and build process.    ? Fixed bugs and enhanced features for Java based Android development in Android Studio.    ? Assisted in developing Voyomotive official website using JavaScript and HTML, helped with Video editing with Final Cut Pro, and Photoshop.    ? Experienced version control software, Cornerstone for iOS, TortoiseSVN for Android.    ? Proficient in various methodologies of SDLC like Agile development and Waterfall development. Software Engineer NHK-International - Novi, MI January 2015 to September 2015 Optimized HTML and JavaScript code to reduce web page loading time for 21%.    ? Designed and restructured an in-house scanning application using AngularJS, Express, NodeJS, and MongoDB for NASCO plant in Bowling Green, KY.    ? Designed and developed a dual data source User Account Control System using Spring and Hibernate frameworks with Active Directory and MySQL.    ? Assisted in developing a responsive Single Page Application using AngularJS framework and JavaScript in conjunction with HTML5, CSS3.    ? Accomplished benchmark safety tests with NHK Seating Department for Volkswagen Passat, Mercedes-Benz GL Class, and BMW 5-Series, with a time savings of 80% on average.    ? Proficient in various methodologies of SDLC like Agile development and Waterfall development. Java Developer Marlabs. Inc - Bethlehem, PA July 2014 to November 2014 Used HTML, CSS, and JavaScript to front-end optimize a web app for Bank of America.    ? Designed and developed an in-house application, experienced with jQuery, AJAX. Education M.S. in Information Technology M.S Lawrence Technological University - Southfield, MI January 2018