Software Engineer <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Software Engineer - Apple Inc. via Tata Consultancy Services (TCS) San Jose, CA More than 2 years extensive experience coding with Java and related frontend technologies HTML, AngularJS, JSP, JavaScript along with back  end technologies SQL, PL/SQL. Building projects with Spring framework using SOAP and RESTful web service and Hibernate. A logical thinker,  problem solver, adaptive to quickly learn and master new technologies that will be release in the near and distant future. Successfully working  in both team and self-directed environment. Great interpersonal and communication skills.    Languages & Technologies  Languages: Java 8, SQL, PL/SQL, JavaScript, XML  Databases: Oracle 11g, MySQL  ORM Solutions: Hibernate  IDE: Visual Studio/Code, Eclipse  Build Tools: Maven, Spring MVC, Spring Boot  Applications Servers: Tomcat  Web Services: RESTful (JAX-RS), SOAP (JAX-WS)  Frameworks: AngularJS 1.2, JQuery 3, Spring 4.3, JUnit 4 Work Experience Software Engineer Apple Inc. via Tata Consultancy Services (TCS) May 2018 to Present Successfully coordinate with team members building "OneBasis" Web Application: This project is in support of a password  management for SAP system administrators. Responsible for developing frontend user interface using JQuery and AngularJS, and backend using Java 8 and Spring framework, configuring Hibernate and utilize Oracle database to store data. Testing application,  debug, and optimize application performance using Dynatrace AppMon 7.2  • Comfortably working as an individual monitoring Linux, AIX hosts and applications: Responsible for doing research of the third party  tool "Dynatrace AppMon 7.2" along with its technologies (e.g. agent, collector, sensor ) to collect data of host health and application  health. Analyzing collected data then report issues to team members, and propose solution to resolve issues.  • Deployed application on Development server and Production server within DevOps.  • Patching Linux hosts every 90 days to ensure security. Full Stack Developer Synergistic IT April 2017 to April 2018 Banking application  A banking application utilizing Java, Spring framework, JQuery, AngularJS, JSP/Servlet, Oracle database. The application allows customers to register with a valid email. Employees can login to accept or reject customers' registration forms. Customers can deposit, withdraw, transfer  funds, and manage personal information. Managers can login to manage employees. Education Bachelor's Degree in Mathematics in Mathematics San Jose State University 2013 Skills UNIX/LINUX, Javascript, Git, MYSQL, Java (3 years), Spring MVC, Oracle, SQL, JQuery, Hibernate, Maven, Spring Boot, Tomcat, RESTful, AngularJS, JUnit, JSON, XML Certifications/Licenses Oracle Certified Professional, Java SE 8 Programmer Additional Information Operating Systems: UNIX/LINUX, Windows  Application Monitoring tool: Dynatrace AppMon 7.2  Version Control System: GitHub