Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer Norfolk, VA Dedicated Software Developer with 3+ years of experience in Front-end and Database development. Improved the web application using latest technologies like Angular and Typescript that resulted in immense traffic to the website. Passionate about building world class Web Applications. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Software Developer CoStar - Norfolk, VA December 2016 to November 2018 Renter’s Account/User Profile:  • Implemented a responsive web application using Angular, TypeScript , HTML, CSS preprocessor like SASS and Flexbox.  • Integrated Auth0 to the application to provide authentication and authorization along with social logins for SignUp/LogIn.  • Collaborated with product team and backend developers to implement and improve features.  • Used promises to parse and handle JSON data returned from server.  • Implemented a Component Driven architecture, for code reusability, thus reducing the development time.  • Used Angular material, an open source library, for built-in components and flexbox to design and implement layouts  • Used Jira for user story tracking processes and streamlining agile planning.  Data Exchange Tool:  • Migrated legacy Data Exchange Tool to Angular 6 and TypeScript.   • Used Angular6 Reactive forms to implement complex forms and performed the validations using Form Builder.  • Integrating client side with RESTful API.  • Leveraged MVC design pattern to organize Angular Controllers, Custom Directives and views.  • Used npm for package management and implemented webpack setup for build and automation process.  • Involved in Database Refactoring to improve design and performance of the tool.  CoStar Integration:  • Involved in design and development of ForRent databases to maintain the legacy ForRent.com features after integration with CoStar Group.  • Optimized queries and stored procedures to decrease the data retrieval time and increase the performance.  • Written and executed scripts to Insert, Update and Delete data in databases.  • Maintained database solutions and projects in Team Foundation Server (TFS).  • Created backup and restore operations for migrating databases from one server to another. Graduate Assistant ODU November 2015 to November 2016 • Updated and maintained the course portal, that has discussion board, assignments and exams for students.  • Used AngularJS for Tab navigation in a single page application and built-in libraries for form validation.  • Developed a responsive web application using media queries and Bootstrap. Education M.S. in Computer Science in Software Engineering, Design Old Dominion University - Norfolk, VA January 2014 to December 2015 Certificate Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University - Hyderabad, Telangana August 2009 to July 2013 Skills SQL SERVER (1 year), SQL (1 year), MySQL, Javascript (2 years), Angular (3 years), HTML 5 (3 years), CSS3 (3 years), SASS (1 year), Git Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Web Technologies : JavaScript, TypeScript, jQuery, Node.js, Bootstrap, HTML5, CSS3, SASS, LESS, Karma.  Databases : SQL server, MySQL, Oracle 11g.  JavaScript Frameworks : Angular versions 2, 5, 6, AngularJS, RxJS, Jasmine.  Tools : Visual Studio (TFS), Visual Studio Code, Eclipse, SSMS, Jira, Sublime text , Git.