Junior Software Developer Junior <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Junior Software Developer Marriottsville, MD Through my ongoing education at Towson University, where I study Software Engineering, and my current job as a Software Developer, I have become well versed in JavaScript, Java, HTML5, CSS, and SQL. Though I may not be an “expert” at any of these languages, my passion for learning and growth are what motivate me daily. In a few years’ time, I see myself possessing enough technical knowledge to be capable of helping others grow professionally the same way I have. On top of my technical knowledge I am skilled in management, finance, and accounting, earning my spot on the Dean’s List at Salisbury University on multiple occasions. In my experience, anything worth achieving will always have obstacles in the way. I have the drive and determination to overcome those obstacles for whatever it may be. Success drives who I am today and what I aspire to be down the road Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Junior Software Developer ABIS Solutions, LLC - Owings Mills, MD January 2019 to Present ·       Built, maintained, and provided support for web applications using FileMaker Pro Advanced  ·       Developed and implemented HTML5, CSS, SQL, and JavaScript solutions into the FileMaker Pro Advanced platform to assist in production of web applications while using software development best practices  ·       Collaborated with technical team for purposes of UI and UX to produce the most efficient products possible  ·       Provided customer technical support and managed services for existing systems Business Analyst Commitpoint, Inc July 2018 to January 2019 Gather, document, and analyze technical documents/requirements for Express.js  client and company needs  ? Translate client needs to technical team for product creation using Java, MongoDB  JavaScript, CSS, HTML 5, and SQL  ? Create and analyze detailed functional specifications Technical Proposal Lead Writer Commitpoint Inc. - Reston, VA December 2016 to July 2018 ?       Assist in collecting and organizing information required for the preparation of technical documentation supporting complex systems which include training materials, proposal, and other reports  ?       Edit functional descriptions, systems specifications, special reports, and other customer deliverables and documents  ?       Perform and guide implementation of Capability Maturity Model Integration (CMMI) maturity level 3 best practices Education Master's in Applied Information Technology Towson University - Towson, MD August 2018 to Present Bachelor's in Business Management Salisbury University - Salisbury, MD January 2015 to May 2018 Skills Microsoft Office, SQL, testing, MS Office, Javascript (2 years), Java (2 years), MERN Tech Stack (1 year), MongoDB (Less than 1 year), React.js (Less than 1 year), Express.js (Less than 1 year), Cheerio.js (Less than 1 year) Links http://linkedin.com/in/stormgalloway http://github.com/gallowaystorm Certifications/Licenses Professional SCRUM Master July 2018 to Present