Java Developer Java <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - Jagged Peak Inc Tampa, FL Experienced software developer with a master's degree in MIS. Currently working as a Java Developer at Jagged Peak, Tampa.  Possess five years of experience in software development, strong foundation in Object Oriented Programming, SDLC, Agile and  Scrum. Fluent in Java, Python and SQL. Knowledgeable in predictive data analysis using R and Python. Work Experience Java Developer Jagged Peak Inc August 2018 to Present Develop scalable middleware applications to integrate market places (Amazon MWS, Shopify), ERPs (KWI, SAP),  warehouses with native e-commerce system. Use Java 8, Mulesoft, SQL Server, SOAP or RESTful web services to build these solutions.  ? Use TDD and unit testing to improve test coverage and facilitate CI/CD.  ? Create and update technical documentations for these applications on Confluence.  ? Communicate with internal teams and clients on a regular basis to resolve issues and enhance existing features. Research Assistant University of South Florida June 2018 to August 2018 Maintain and add features to a Java based web application that finds and reduces ambiguity in a sentence.  ? Collect data using Amazon MTurk and accordingly improve the system. Handle build and deployment of the application. Senior Software Engineer Cybage Software Pvt. Ltd June 2014 to July 2017 Worked in the offshore development team for a Florida based total e-commerce solution provider. Designed and implemented integration layers between their Order Management System (OMS) and third-party systems.  ? My responsibilities involved understanding requirements, providing analysis and estimations, designing the integration and implementing (coding) the solution while working in an Agile/Scrum environment.  ? Gained expertise on Java, SQL (Microsoft SQL Server), SOAP/REST APIs, CSS, Javascript/JQuery, HTML, XML/XSLT, Mule  ESB, Coldfusion. Education Master of Science in Business Analytics and Information Systems University of South Florida - Tampa, FL August 2017 to December 2018 Bachelor of Engineering in Electronics and Telecommunication Pune Institute of Computer Technology - Pune, Maharashtra August 2010 to May 2014 Skills Java, Rest, Soap, Spring, Javascript, Hibernate, MVC, Python, Coldfusion, JQuery, JIRA, SQL, SQL Server, XSLT Links http://anupamb.myweb.usf.edu/about.html https://in.linkedin.com/in/bhattacharjeeanupam2 https://github.com/anupambhatta