Support different countries Expert Support different countries Expert Support different countries Expert Lake Worth, FL Software Developer Engineer with more than 10 year of hands-on experience in all levels of the software development. Team player with excellent troubleshooting response and great aptitude to any kind of progressive solutions. With active involvement in many phases of the software development lifecycle in projects of different structures and sizes. Experienced in several software development methodologies.    • Proficient: C#, C++, PHP, JavaScript, Html, Css.  • Fluent with: C, VB.NET, ASP.NET, PL/SQL, SQL.  • Database: Microsoft SQL Server 2000/2008/2012, MySQL, Oracle (6i, 10g, 11g), PostgreSQL.  • Platforms: Microsoft Windows (7,8,10), Windows Server 2012, 2016, Linux.  • IDEs: Visual Studio (2012, 2010, 2008, 2005), Adobe Flash Builder, C++ Builder, Report and Form Oracle, Dreamweaver MX, Eclipse.  • Source control: Microsoft Visual SourceSafe, Tortoise SVN, Git.  • Web Servers: Apache, Internet Information Server.  • Diagnostic and Optimization: SQL Server Profiler, SQL Trace Analyzer, SQL Deadlock Detector, Red Gate ANTS Memory Profiler, Database Engine Tuning Advisor, SQL Accelerator.  • NET framework, MVC 2, MVC3, ASP.NET.  • HTML, XML, CSS, WCF, Web Services  • Relational Databases, Security.  • Apache Web Server.  • Crystal Reports  • Report and Form Oracle  • CMS: Word Press  • Exchange Online, Exchange Server Share Point, OneDrive, Skype for Business, Microsoft teams, the entire Office365 platform Work Experience Support different countries Expert Teleperformance USA August 2017 to August 2017 Exchange Online, Share Point, OneDrive, Skype for Business, Microsoft teams, the entire Office365 platform, including migrations, Ability to create PowerShell Script, audit reports for Exchange Online mailboxes.    Hybrid Scenarios between Exchange Server 2010, 2013, 2016, 2019.  Active Directory and Azure Active Directory Office365.  Enterprise Identity    Experience in working with Active Directories and user management.  - Create users,  - Assign Roles  - Create group policies, etc.  - Synchronization with Portal Office 365. Software Developer AMERICA Techway S.A. Panama October 2012 to December 2015 • Direct conceptual, strategic and tactical creation of robust, integrated Web Based Accounting System using HTML, PHP, Javascript, Java and multiple frameworks  • Managed simultaneous projects meeting all budgets and timeframes.  • Performed usability testing and systhetize data into concrete GUI design proposals.  • Design and optimize site graphics and navigational elements.  • Lead and coordinate a cross-functional developing team maintain a goal-oriented environment while facilitating boundary questioning and creative thinking. Network Manager INRH. Cuba September 2011 to October 2013 • Responsible for network management including network performance, tunning, security monitoring, file server backup and e-mail server administration.  • Planned and designed LAN network expansion.  • Upgraded and configured Microsoft Windows Server and Installed Network routers, cabling and firewalls.  • Worked with the IT team to develop and implement security policies and conducted network system auditing. Education Bachelor's Degree in computer science in computer science University Orient 2011