Software Developer Intern <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Intern Actively Seeking for Full-Time Opportunities | Former Software Eng. | Graduate Student at Pace University Jersey City, NJ Experienced Software Engineer who can bring a diverse skill set and creative drive of software application development. Proficient at designing and writing code in various language, and feature development and implementation. A born leader with the ability to lead teams to process and manage large volumes without compromising service or quality.    • Recently graduated, Masters of Science in Computer Science at Pace University, New York.  • I have a strong passion for software development and web applications development.  • Actively looking for an opportunity as a Software Engineer/ Web Developer/ Mobile Application Developer.  • I hope to join a forward thinking developing company in a position where I can utilize all of my skills.     My coursework includes Mobile Web Content & Development, Algorithm & Computing Theory.    TECHNICAL SKILLS  Java, SQL, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, JSON, AJAX and Responsive Web Design Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Software Developer Intern OFree Inc - New York, NY May 2018 to August 2018 • Collaborated with peers and supervisors to understand use cases and develop them into features of a mobile and web application that allows users to trade goods.  • Built, tested, and maintained web version and Android application by coding in JAVA, JS, Firebase and Bootstrap to enable users to upload products for trade as well as make and accept offers on goods.  • Designed the UI of the applications using JSP, XML, HTML, CSS, and Bootstrap to create a user-friendly environment. Software Engineer Yash Technologies Pvt. Ltd - Indore, Madhya Pradesh March 2015 to July 2017 • Developed four web and mobile applications by writing and testing code in JAVA, JavaScript, MySQL, jQuery, Tortoise GIT for company clients that was scalable, extendable with new features, responsive, and user-friendly.  • Designed and deployed a mobile application using Spring Boot that provides farmers with seed information.  • Developed a web application using JavaScript, Spring boot, DB2 and Bootstrap to enable company recruiter to schedule interviews of new candidates and give feedback.  • Selected design patterns and layered architecture for web applications to ensure that all the steps of the project development life cycle were completed in accordance with clients' business needs. Education Master's in Computer Science Pace University, Seidenberg School of Computer Science and Information Systems - New York, NY July 2017 to May 2019 Bachelor's in Computer Science Medicaps Institute of Science and Technology - Indore, Madhya Pradesh June 2010 to October 2014 Skills ANDROID STUDIO, FIREBASE, Git, HTML, BOOTSTRAP Links http://linkedin.com/in/sakshamchandrawat http://github.com/Chandrawat Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Programming Language: Java, J2EE, HTML 5, JAVA Script and XML  Databases: Firebase, MySQL, DB2 and SQLyog  Frameworks: Spring boot, CSS 3 and Bootstrap  Version Control System: JIRA, Git and Tortoise-SVN  Tools Used: Android Studio, Eclipse, VS code and QTest.