Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Saint Peters, MO Determined and resourceful individual with strong technical  experience seeks a software developer position that prioritizes  critical thinking and utilizes problem solving skills. Work Experience Software Developer Clearent December 2016 to Present • Administer and maintain systems support for software, hardware and servers: test, troubleshoot, diagnose, and resolve issues  • Assist with PowerShell scripting for production automation efforts  utilizing Visual Studio Code and Git  • Manage user accounts in Active Directory  • Office 365 support, maintenance, and administration (user accounts,  distribution groups, mailflow/security rules)  • Oversee on/off boarding employees  • Accountable for trouble tickets; first touch email resolution, quick  response and resolution times  * Develop software using an agile methodology. This entails:  * Participate in iterative development over 2-week sprints.  * Use TDD extensively.  * Participate in pair programming.  * Work with tools such as Visual Studio, git, TFS, and SQL Server.  * Work with the latest .NET frameworks, including .NET Core and ASP.NET Core.  * Share knowledge freely with those around you.  * Have a thirst for learning. Network Technician MasterCard August 2015 to August 2015 • Troubleshoot all types of network and peripheral issues  • Collect the specifications of each system and maintain a record to increase efficiency of future troubleshooting  • Support third party field technicians on installations/connectivity  issues  • Maintain detailed tickets to track issues  • Assist with installs of computer networks, connections and cabling  • Perform troubleshooting to system failures and identify issue to ensure  efficient networks  • Test software and maintain hardware for peripheral devices Support Analyst Retail Technology Group February 2015 to August 2015 • Provide front-line technical support to end users on various software and hardware issues.  • Responsible for tracking, updating and responding to support tickets  • Answer customer concerns via phone and email  • Obtain resolution to comply with agreed SLA's Education A.A.S. in Information Technology Saint Louis Community College - St. Louis, MO August 2011 to May 2014 Skills Service Desk, Desktop Support, Help Desk, Tech Support, Active Directory Links https://github.com/ashleyhudgens Certifications/Licenses Microsoft Certified Professional (MCP) Present Windows 10 Mobility Microsoft Certified Solutions Associate Present Windows 10 Mobility Microsoft Certified Solutions Expert Present Windows 10 Mobility