Software Developer (Contract) <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> (Contract) Software Engineer Washington, DC Software Developer (Java/Spring/DevOps) looking for new opportunities Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Developer (Contract) Capital One - McLean, VA January 2019 to Present • Design and develop applications using Java, using Spring framework and Hibernate using Eclipse IDE/Spring Tool Suite.  • Develop business logic using Java features like String, Collections, Lambda functions and web services based on REST.  • Expose and consume JSON, XML based Web API services.  • Work on MVC design pattern and create modularized and loose coupled applications using Dependency Injection.  • Use SQL Queries and work with Tables and Views in PostgreSQL.  • Perform code optimizations and strictly adhere to coding standards.  • Follow agile SDLC methodology & participate in daily scrum meeting with onsite team.  • Write and Unit test cases using JUnit and apply concepts of Test-Driven Development.  • Deploy applications onto Amazon Web Services EC2 instance and manage DevOps cycle.  • Write Integration and Acceptance Tests using Cucumber/Gherkin that ensures end to end functionality of applications.  • Working on Amazon SQS that uses messaging to communicate between microservice-driven applications.  • Execute Performance Testing of applications using Apache JMeter that uses Load and Stress tests to make applications more robust and ready for production environments.  • Collaborate with other teams when it comes to end-to-end testing, data creation and ensuring that standards are followed.  Computer Science Intern AKIRA TECHNOLOGIES - Washington, DC August 2017 to May 2018 • Led the effort toward re-designing the corporate website.  • Contributed to creating an application used by the Sales team. Software Engineer AL MULLA GROUP November 2014 to July 2016 • Developed web applications used by various departments - Human Resources, Administration, Finance, Insurance.  • Enabled increased user participation in daily tasks and completely converted and fully automated certain previously  manual processes, thereby reducing paperwork and increasing productivity. Programmer Analyst COGNIZANT TECHNOLOGY SOLUTIONS - Chennai, Tamil Nadu May 2012 to October 2013 • Modeled web applications using an in-built tool - Cognizant Advance Apps (CA2).  • Performed Progression and Regression Testing of CA2 across various sprint release versions, and released certified  versions of the product for usage.  • Worked on documentation of CA2 by working on user manuals and video tutorials, thereby facilitating increased  user involvement with the product and also allowing new users to be more familiarized with using the tool. Education Master of Science in Information Systems Technology THE GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY, School of Business - Washington, DC May 2018 Certificate in Business Analytics VIT UNIVERSITY, School of Computer Science and Engineering - Vellore, Tamil Nadu Skills C++ (Less than 1 year), CSS (Less than 1 year), JavaScript (1 year), Java (3 years), SQL (3 years), DATABASE (Less than 1 year) Additional Information TECHNICAL SUMMARY  Systems Experience: Linux, Windows, MAC OS  Programming Languages & Tools: C/C++, Java/J2EE - Spring, Hibernate, JSF, JasperReports  Statistical Tools: Microsoft Excel, R, Tableau  Database Management: MySQL, Oracle SQL  Markup & Scripting Languages: HTML/CSS, JSP, JavaScript