Process Control Technician Process Control Technician Process Control Technician - Seneca Foods Corporation Apple Valley, MN I am a graduate Electrical Engineer with two years of experience in electrical, controls and software engineering. I hold a Bachelor of Science degree in Electrical Engineering (BSEE) and a minor in Computer Science (C.S.) awarded by North Dakota State University (NDSU). In the process of earning my BSEE degree I became interested in areas such as power systems, power electronics, hardware design, controls & instrumentation, robotics, communications, software development, systems integration and cybersecurity.    I am currently employed as Process Control Technician at Seneca Foods Corporation (SFC). The main duty is performing plant engineering in the Clyman canning facility, but also assisting the Corporate Electrical Engineers in the nearby SFC plants. Prior to SFC, I was employed by NDSU and held different student positions. Started as an IT Help Desk Consultant, and then promoted to Software Developer.     In my professional career I have developed several technical and personal skills critical to the successful fulfillment of my duties. In addition, the collaboration with cross platform teams has played a key role in the development of a variety of engineering applications.    I am truly passionate about Science, Technology, Engineering and Math (STEM field). I am always showing eagerness to connect with other engineers, scientist and professionals. While I enjoy all aspects of engineering research & design process, I think my favorite state of a project is when I am able to see that hard work becoming alive. There is so much satisfaction in looking at a prototype moving, flashing lights and performing a task. Work Experience Process Control Technician Seneca Foods Corporation - Clyman, WI November 2017 to Present Supervised power distribution and process control equipment to assure proper startup of production lines and their continuous  operation during the pack season.  • Troubleshot and corrected system design flaws and malfunctions in existing production lines to optimize process control.  • Documented input from plant management on equipment upgrades and future projects to improve the efficiency, safety and yield of production lines.  • Collaborated with senior electrical engineers, electricians, and mechanics to produce and maintain engineering documentation,  schematics, and software for existing and future control and instrumentation systems.  • Enforced standard work practices and guidelines between electricians and mechanics to keep the electrical system in compliance with NEC and IEEE standards.  • Provided technical expertise to plant management and corporate engineers when working with third party companies on new  equipment technologies to verify power and controls are complainant with the specifications for operations.  • Managed systems administration to provided third party companies with external network access to resources and equipment in the plant.  • Applied knowledge in electrical theory, electric drives, robotics, communications systems and software development to conduct  process optimization and system integration for long term engineering projects.  • Conducted monthly safety audits to comply with OSHA and industry standards which guaranteed a safe workplace for employees, visitors and contractors. Software Developer North Dakota State University - Fargo, ND January 2016 to August 2017 • Utilized concepts in software engineering to produce Java applications and web services to improve end user experience with NDSU online and system resources.  • Performed software tests to determine bugs, security exploits, redundant code, and invalid user input effects leading to stable  web applications and backend services.  • Enhanced data processing and presentation by integrating APIs into existing software which granted REST and SOAP access to web applications.  • Coordinated UNIX based systems, databases, and enterprise tools in the process of developing software which together  simulated the production environment assuring optimal performance when deployed. Education Bachelor of Science degree in Electrical Engineering North Dakota State University - Fargo, ND May 2017 Skills Electrical Engineering (4 years), PLC Programming (3 years), Electrical Design (4 years), PCB (3 years), Allen Bradley (2 years), Embedded Systems (4 years), Digital/Analog Electronics (4 years), Power Systems (3 years), HMI Programming (3 years), Autocad (2 years), c/c++ (4 years), LAN/WAN (4 years), Linux (3 years), Automation & Instrumentation (4 years), Ethernet/IP (4 years)