Data QA Specialist Data QA Specialist Data QA Specialist - ICON Advisory Group Flower Mound, TX Work Experience Data QA Specialist ICON Advisory Group (Informa) - Dallas, TX May 2018 to May 2019 Work and communicate with several lenders daily to ensure validity of data  ? Do the audit and make the necessary changes to ensure the data is  reflected correctly in the systems  ? Work with data stored in ms access and excel databases.    ? Data analysis to provide changes made for each lender with attention to detail Software Developer NEC America - Irving, TX 2002 to 2002 Develop and direct software system testing and validation  procedures, programming, and documentation.  ? Confer with systems analysts, engineers, programmers and others to design system and to obtain information on project  limitations and capabilities, performance requirements and interfaces.  ? Analyze user needs and software requirements to determine  feasibility of design within time and cost constraints.  ? Store, retrieve, and manipulate data for analysis of system  capabilities and requirements.  ? Analyze information to determine, recommend, and plan  computer specifications and layouts, and peripheral equipment  modifications. Software Quality Assurance Engineer and Tester L & T Infotech - Mumbai, Maharashtra 1997 to 2000 Update automated test scripts to ensure currency.  ? Install, maintain, or use software testing programs.  ? Provide feedback and recommendations to developers on software usability and functionality.  ? Coordinate user or third party testing.  ? Visit beta testing sites to evaluate software performance.  ? Provide technical support during software installation or configuration. Education Bachelor of Computer in science & engg SGGS College of Engg, Marathwada University Skills QA Additional Information ? Expertise in Microsoft Office including Excel and Acess.    ? Strong computer skills with Windows and Mac OS.    ? Excellent written and verbal communication skills.    ? Excellent time manager with experience coordinating schedules,    maintaining calendars, arranging transportation, and making    travel arrangements