Software Developer Intern <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Intern Seeking Fall 19 internship and Full-Time opportunities | UT Dallas MS in CS student graduating May 2020 Dallas, TX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Developer Intern Securonix - Addison, TX June 2019 to August 2019 • Designed a Customer Portal application using Grails framework to provide visual representation of customer’s data sourcing from Solr and HDFS, complimenting Securonix’s Security Information and Event Management tool.   • Implemented dynamic graphs and interactive data representations using D3 and Highcharts JavaScript libraries. Application Development Analyst Accenture - Mumbai, Maharashtra August 2016 to July 2018 • Deployed half yearly online and offline catalogue where various consumer products along with their details were uploaded and made available across the sales channels (Stores, Web and Call Centres).   • Automated routine tasks such as sanity checks and troubleshooting of system and applications using JAVA, shell scripts and Accenture’s Robotic Process Automation Tool.   • Created graphical dashboards to display and analyse business data using SPLUNK.   • Performed Lexical Analysis on client’s AI Chatbot application. Student Intern (RA) KJSIEIT - Mumbai, Maharashtra June 2015 to November 2015 • Configured a private cloud for KJSIEIT using “Open Stack – Icehouse”, an IaaS cloud management software.   • Deployed and archived projects of various platforms onto the cloud to create institute’s project repository.  Software Engineer Intern Fragume.com - Mumbai, Maharashtra April 2014 to July 2014 • Designed and developed the Cart and Product Description pages of the website using HTML and CSS.   • Uploaded and managed products for the E-commerce websites, generated tags for Search Engine Optimization.  Education Master's in Computer Science The University of Texas at Dallas - Richardson, TX August 2018 to May 2020 Bachelor's in Computer Engineering University of Mumbai - Mumbai, Maharashtra August 2012 to May 2016 Skills MICROSOFT VISUAL STUDIO, VISUAL STUDIO, C#, JAVA (2 years), Python, SQL (2 years), C, HTML, CSS, Jsp, Javascript, Asp.Net, C++, Shell Scripting, Apache Lucene, Whoosh, Hibernate, Git, Jupyter, Eclipse, Matlab, Putty, Blue Prism, Spring, Bootstrap Links http://linkedin.com/in/yashhjain94 https://github.com/yashhjain Certifications/Licenses Microsoft Technology Associate: Web Development Fundamentals June 2015 to Present License F365-6507 Accenture Retail Industry Generalist Certification July 2017 to Present License 1241212624 Publications SMARTPARK-Intelligent Parking Application using Image Processing http://www.ijritcc.org/download/browse/Volume_3_Issues/October_15_Volume_3_Issue_10/1445661532_23-10-2015.pdf 2015-10 The research paper discusses about the growing problem of car parking in urban areas due to the growing population .Due to growing population the number of vehicles has increased simultaneously and because of the limited parking lots, the problem of car parking is proliferating. In order to stop this, a system has been proposed to provide whole extensive proof based on growing urbanization, increasing traffic flow and technology growth for implementing innovative help and services to public transport system with aim to accelerate local social wealth by providing a mobile phone application for real time scanning and searching for available parking area and tracking the vacancy in the parking lot using existing technologies i.e. CCTV cameras. By having the image of the area, the particular car park slots can be detected and thereafter the processed information can be used as to guide the driver to an empty parking slot which will save his time. The whole idea is to make car parking more efficient and less tedious for the drivers. Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Programming/Scripting Languages: JAVA, C, C++, C#, Python, JavaScript, Groovy, Shell Script, PHP Web: HTML, CSS, JSP, Servlets, ASP.NET Databases: SQL, Oracle   Frameworks: Spring, Hibernate, Grails, Maven, Bootstrap, .NET, Apache Lucene, Whoosh   Tools: Git, Ms Visual Studio, Eclipse, Jupyter, MATLAB, Oracle SQL Developer, Putty, Blue Prism