Developer <span class="hl">Developer</span> Developer Snellville, GA • Experience in analysis, design and development of web based applications. Developed web applications, web services in Microsoft Visual Studio .Net IDE using C#, .Net, ASP.NET, ADO.NET and SQL Server.  • Experience in Web Services, SOAP, XML, JSON, CSS, HTML, AJAX and JavaScript.  • Extensive experience in SQL Server Database design, Database maintenance, developing SQL queries, stored procedures, and triggers using SQL Server.  • Experience in application development for health care industry. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Developer United Nations Volunteers July 2018 to October 2018 Responsibilities:  • Developing a Power BI data model and dashboard which leverage public data on  - Country Statistics  - Financial Indicators  - Natural Disasters  - Development Projects  • The aim is to help humanitarian action at both national and international levels; to rationalize decision-making for disaster preparedness; and to provide an objective basis for vulnerability assessment and priority setting.  • It also helps to identify development requirements i.e. where are the needs (countries), what are the needs (sector of activity like education, health etc.) and how these are financed (project budgets etc.).  • Extensive use of API's to import and connect data in Power BI.    Travel May. '16 - Jun '18  • USA  • Australia Customer Service Volunteer Travellers Aid June 2018 to September 2018 Travellers Aid provides support, advice and assistance to the travelling public including people with special requirements or experiencing travel emergencies.    I assisted Travellers Aid with the Buggy Service; assisting older or mobility-impaired fans transiting to and from the MCG for the 2018 AFL season. Software developer Seronic (Pvt). Ltd August 2015 to May 2016 Project 1: Seronic HRM System  Environment: Visual Studio 2012, SQL Server Management Studio, LINQ, C#, ASP.Net MVC 4.  Description: The project was company's own Human Resource Management System. It was built to keep track of employee's information i.e. their personal information and employment history.    Project 2: Real Estate Project  Environment: Salesforce CRM, Force.com IDE, Apex Programming Language, Visual Force pages.  Description: It was a real estate project built to facilitate the real estate agents so that they can update the property available for sale and purchase in their area. In addition to this, it also helped them in keeping the record of the buyers and sellers and their related communication.    Responsibilities:  • Requirement analysis.  • Setting up the project and database according to requirements.  • Developing the assigned module.  • Unit testing of the assigned module.  • Bug fixing and enhancements in assigned module.  • Coordinating with the development team as well as the testing team.  • Database design and development. Software Engineer MTBC February 2014 to January 2015 Projects: MTBC iCheckIn, MTBC PHR (Patient Health Records), MTBC Dictate and MTBC iEHR (Electronic Health Records)  Environment: Visual Studio 2012, SQL Server Management Studio.    Responsibilities:  • Backend development of Android and iOS applications.  • Developed and consumed web services.  • Coordinating with QA team and development team to meet the project requirements.  • Developed SOAP and Restful web services.  • Developed .asmx and WCF web services.  • Designed and developed database for my projects.  • Wrote SQL stored procedures and worked on complex SQL queries.  • MTBC is a US based healthcare IT Company. I have worked on healthcare application's backend.    SOCIAL WELFARE EXPERIENCE: Education Bachelor's Skills SQL (4 years), Javascript, Jquery, CSS, Git, ASP