Software Engineer <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Software Engineer Columbia, SC Seeking career as a software engineer designing and optimizing applications. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Engineer PenServ Plan Services - Columbia, SC June 2015 to April 2017 • Designed and developed Microsoft ASP.NET MVC 5.0 Web Applications.   • Implemented procedures for designing and development of web pages and sites along with GUI features.   • Executed programming functions utilizing HTML, HTML5, JavaScript, jQuery, and CSS and Microsoft .NET technologies.   • Developed applications leveraging ADO.NET, and Entity Framework 5.0   • Wrote custom programs for the server, the front end, and back end.   • Create databases with MSSQL Server and TSQL and online reports to support project ROI measurement and data analytics.   • Explore and examine new and developing technology to advance individual knowledge and agency capabilities.  Developer South Carolina Department of Revenue - Columbia, SC August 2014 to June 2015 • Designed and developed new features using Visual Studio 2012/2010/2005, C#, XML, LINQ, ASP.NET Web Forms, WCF, Web Services, Silverlight4, ASP.NET MVC 5.0/4.0/3.0, ASP.NET Web API and ADO.NET.  • Developed additional Web Interfaces using C#, JavaScript, CSS, HTML and XML.  • Maintained and modified existing Web Interfaces. ? Worked with Forms Team to maintain, design and implement different Taxpayer Notices using Adobe Central and Adobe LiveCycle.   • Part of the team involved in documenting and maintaining development environment.  • Added Unit Tests for new functionalities using Unit Testing Frameworks MS Test, NUnit and xUnit.  • Involved in writing and modifying SQL queries and stored procedures in SQL Server 2012/2008 R2 /2005. ? Involved in writing SSIS Packages.   • Involved in writing reports using SSRS.  • Responsible for configuring, maintaining, building and deploying Test and Production Environments using Microsoft Team Foundation Server and Cruise Control.NET.  • Responsible for handling Change Request maintained in Microsoft Team Foundation and Star Team Server.  • Writing Web Services for external clients in WCF.  • Responsible for maintaining Test Environment Servers.  • Involved in developing and maintaining an internal website using HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, SASS, LESS, XML and Angular JS.  Education Bachelor's in Computer Engineering University of South Carolina-Columbia - Columbia, SC August 2010 to April 2013 Skills Ajax (3 years), ASP. (3 years), ASP.NET (3 years), Assembly (Less than 1 year), C# (3 years), C (Less than 1 year), CSS (3 years), Eclipse (Less than 1 year), HDL (Less than 1 year), HTML (4 years), IIS (2 years), Java (Less than 1 year), JavaScript (3 years), jQuery (3 years), MIPS (Less than 1 year), MATLAB (Less than 1 year), Linux (2 years), SQL (2 years), HTML 5 (3 years), MySQL (3 years), PHP, ASP Assessments Critical Thinking — Expert May 2019 Using logic to solve problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/9-nndw2robdeixdw Problem Solving — Highly Proficient May 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to analyze relevant information when solving problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/sltci-sbwwh7kp5p Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.