Software Engineering Intern <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineering Intern Software Engineer Las Vegas, NV Work Experience Software Engineering Intern MGM Resorts International June 2019 to August 2019 Led team of 7 in development of pub/sub system comprised geo-fencing, detecting  user hotel check-in and geo-fence entry, analyzing user profiles, selecting personalized  offers, delivering ads via push notification and digital displays in real time. Java, Azure.  • Built web application subscribed to event grid topic utilizing server sent events to display dynamic digital signage advertisements. Node.js, jQuery, Redis.  • Presented demonstration of system and innovative concepts to MGM top leaders. Backend Development Intern The Burg December 2018 to February 2019 • Scraped web for location-based, user-specific news articles and parsed. XML, HTML.  • Engineered web application logic, routing, data processing. Express, Node.js, AWS.  • Constructed reports and queries and developed database structure. MySQL. Project Engineer P1 Group Inc May 2017 to May 2018 • Compiled construction projects using Bluebeam Revu Extreme and Sharepoint.  • Created automation tools for construction document processing. Python.  • Analyzed and generated reports on financial documents for multiple projects. Partner, Software Developer SLConnected May 2016 to May 2017 • Built automated platform for web application deployment. Java, JavaScript.  • Developed custom, premium applications for companies in a variety of sectors.  • Interviewed, recruited and trained software developers to grow team from 3 to 8. BIM Support Specialist Southland Industries June 2016 to August 2016 • Designed and corrected 3D models of mechanical systems - Revit and AutoCAD.  • Collaborated with BIM lead to optimize and standardize Scrum for the BIM workflow.  • Wrote and distributed scripts to streamline BIM processes. Education Master's in Software Engineering University of Southern California - Los Angeles, CA August 2018 to Present Bachelor's in Computer Science St. John's University - New York, NY May 2018 Skills C++, Git, Html, Javascript, Bootstrap, Node.js, Lisp, Perl, Php, Prolog, Python, Vba, Java, jquery, Mysql, Postgresql, Sql, Redis, Css, Android Links http://thenewsalligator.com/html/tech.html https://kbradydavis.com Additional Information SKILLS Languages and Technologies  • Java, Python, JavaScript, PHP, HTML, CSS, SQL, UML, Bash  • Express, Node.js, Git, MySQL, PostgreSQL, Redis, Revit, AutoCAD, Bluebeam, Azure,  AWS, GCP, React, AngularJS, jQuery, Android, Bootstrap  • Linux, Unix, macOS, Windows  Working Knowledge  • C++, Perl, Lisp, Prolog, VBA, PowerShell