Uber Partner/Driver Uber Partner/Driver Uber Partner/Driver - Uber Inc Orlando, FL Efficient Software Developer enthusiastically seeking an opportunity to contribute value to the company. Eager to further hone a diverse skill set and knowledge base, including software designing, coding, testing, and debugging. Work Experience Uber Partner/Driver Uber Inc - Orlando, FL May 2017 to Present • Ensured that customer arrived safely and on time to their destination.  • Managed routes using Android app technology.  • Demonstrated ability to deal peacefully with unforeseen circumstances or delays and use advanced driving techniques to better improve time management and safety.  • Assured that the vehicle is maintained in excellent condition and is cleaned regularly and In-depth knowledge of vehicle maintenance is applied.  • Communicate with passengers, offering a safe and welcoming ride to their destination. Junior Software Developer (Two Year Contract) Advance Technology LLC - Philadelphia, PA May 2013 to May 2015 • Contributed to all phases of the software development life cycle.  • Write well designed, testable, efficient code.  • Ensured designs are in compliance with specifications.  • Prepared and produced releases of software components.  • Support continuous improvement by investigating alternatives and technologies and presenting these for architectural review. Education Bachelor of Science in Software Engineering Pennsylvania State University - University Park, PA 2021 Associate of Science in Computer Science Community College of Philadelphia - Philadelphia, PA 2018 Skills C++, Object-oriented programming, Database, Database design, Sql, Eclipse, Java, Data structures, Punctual, Detail oriented, Microsoft office, Database management Additional Information SKILLS  • Java (Advanced)  • C++ (Basic)  • SQL (Basic)  • Microsoft Office (Intermediate)  • IDEs(NetBeans, Eclipse, Intellij)  • Object-oriented programming  • Data Structures  • Database design  • Database management    • Excellent communication  • Self-motivated  • Conceptual thinking  • Organized  • Detail Oriented  • Believe in teamwork  • Hard-working and Ambitious  • Punctual