Full stack developer Full stack <span class="hl">developer</span> Full stack developer Chicago, IL Passionate Computer Science graduate student with great problem-solving ability and a strong hunger for new knowledge  and skills. Proficient in Java, Python and SQL. Excellent software engineer and developer looking for full-time opportunities Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Full stack developer TF-IDF and Cosine Similarity August 2018 to December 2018 Developed a program which read a text file, found similarity between a document and query to retrieve highly  weighted result for the given query with efficiency greater than 85% of the students.  • The nltk package was used for stemming and tokenizing then calculated tf-idf of words in the document efficiently  Use Cloud services to deploy and maintain web apps Python, Amazon AWS, flask, Redis, MySQL May'18 - Jun'18  • Designed applications and databases to deploy, maintain, and cache on amazon AWS, Azure, Bluemix and Gcloud  • Showed results of queried database on the web app to understand working of and differences between different  cloud services which enhanced performance of application and saved effectively 15% of the cost of the cloud  services. Child's Vaccines January 2018 to May 2018 Programmed a web application for managing a child's vaccines to make it easy for parents and doctors to centralize the process and keep track of vaccines given to their children.  JavaJam coffee house- web development project AWS, CodeIgniter, PHP, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript Jan'18 - May'18  • Designed the JavaJam website, hosted it on Amazon AWS to sell products, show café menu and upcoming events  • Application was designed to run on mobile, PC, on tablets seamlessly to achieve higher traffic and easy  accessibility. MAV Escort - Software Engineering Project MongoDB, Android August 2017 to November 2017 Developed an android application to manage Escort rides at UTA which helped centralized whole process for managing to request and giving a ride to students and effectively reduced service time by 60%. Campus Connected Digitally - Mobile Social Network June 2015 to April 2016 • Programmed and debugged a social network android application for the college user communities, users like teachers and students effectively communicated with each other using this application.  • Handled large number of traffic efficiently with less than 0.1% downtime. Education Master of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science The University of Texas at Arlington - Arlington, TX August 2017 to May 2019 Bachelor of Engineering in Information Technology in Cloud Computing Pune Institute of Computer Technology August 2012 to May 2016 Skills Android (1 year), Apache cassandra (Less than 1 year), Asteradata (Less than 1 year), Aws (Less than 1 year), C (Less than 1 year), Cassandra. (Less than 1 year), Detail oriented. (Less than 1 year), Eclipse (Less than 1 year), Frameworks (Less than 1 year), Java (1 year), Junit (Less than 1 year), Life cycle (Less than 1 year), Linux (Less than 1 year), Machine learning (Less than 1 year), Mongodb (Less than 1 year), Mysql (Less than 1 year), Software life cycle (Less than 1 year), Sql. (Less than 1 year), Team player (Less than 1 year), Testing (1 year), PHP, Javascript Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/ashutoshkanade Additional Information Skills  • Languages: C, C++, Java, HTML5, CSS, Python, PHP, JavaScript.  • Machine Learning: R, NumPy, Scikit.learn, Pandas  • Cloud Technologies: Amazon AWS, Microsoft Azure, Google Cloud, IBM Bluemix  • Databases: Redis, MongoDB, MySQL, SQL, Cassandra.    • Operating Systems: Linux, Windows, Android.  • Frameworks: CodeIgniter, Flask.  • Applications: Eclipse, NetBeans, CodeBlocks, Android Studio.  • Testing: JUnit, Parameterized Testing.  • Software Life cycle models: Agile, Waterfall, scrum, XP.  • Personal: Problem-solver, Team Player, Leader, Highly motivated, Detail oriented.