Co-founder Co-founder Co-founder - FIE Technology Camp Houston, TX Work Experience Co-founder FIE Technology Camp May 2017 to Present * Directed technological operations for nonprofit STEM camp targeted at middle school and high school students.  * Developed landing page fiehtx.com utilizing HTML, CSS, JS & Bootstrap.  * Created curriculum in collaboration with team members teaching students use cases of raspberry pi's. Desk Assistant Student Housing and Residential Life September 2016 to Present * Aided visitors and residents with campus and dormitory information.  * Accompanied security officers to conduct wellness checks.  * Developed negotiation and problem-solving skills when dealing with disgruntled residents.  * Reference: Bernice Cantu - Supervisor: (713) 743-6994 Software Developer Projects E-Uni February 2019 to February 2019 Web application developed to centralize campus organization information as part of a team for UT Dallas hackathon competition utilizing HTML, CSS, JavaScript, PHP and SQL.  Digital Image Processing Application May 2019  * Desktop application developed for course implementing object-oriented principles and image processing filters to reduce noise on images utilizing python and wxpython(python GUI). Software Development Intern Reynolds and Reynolds May 2018 to August 2018 * Code implementation and programming changes to proprietary software as part of devops team.  * Followed strict coding and design standards in compliance with other code.  * Implemented code which became part of a major update. Purushottam Sanstha (BAPS) - Youth Instructor Bochasan Akshar September 2014 to February 2018 * Taught classes of up to 20 students at BAPS religious organization.  * Created curriculum for said classes on a weekly basis.  * Refined team-work skills through working alongside other advisors.  * Improved public speaking skills through presentations given to students and other advisors alike. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science University of Houston December 2019