Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer Bel Air, MD Software Engineer with a wide range of experience providing creative solutions and excellent customer service through programming, design, administration of databases and applications, and source control administration. Able to work independently, as a member of a team, or lead a small team of developers. Experienced with Scrum framework and Agile development. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Developer Whitman, Requardt & Associates, LLP - Baltimore, MD April 2015 to May 2019 Developed internal software enhancements to increase productivity, minimize  redundancy, and enhance capabilities of each department in the company.  Led small team of 4 developers in analysis and rebuild of software from concept through to completion.  Provided technical support for all in-house CAD software being used.  Collaborated on all stages of systems development life-cycle, from requirements  gathering to production releases.  Analyzed requirements and designed, developed and implemented software  solutions for multiple applications.  Created technical documentation for internal and external clients that accurately  describe the configuration of technology utilized to implement a solution  Installed Team Foundation Server as the sole source control management  software and provided training and administration. Created policies and procedures to be followed by all members of the development department.  Generate work items for projects for all team members to collaborate and progress through the development and completion of projects. Software Developer Roadnet Technologies Inc - Towson, MD August 2014 to April 2015 Update and upgrade the company's proprietary software for managing fleets of vehicles and planning cost efficient routing.  Assisting senior mentors to implement parallel processing to the simulation  testing software suite in order to reduce the time running the simulation. Junior Software Developer Prometric July 2012 to August 2014 Assisted in the design and development of user information solutions and Internet  applications for one of the world's leading test development and delivery provider.  Collaborate with senior developers to understand timelines and requirements.  Unit and system test new services, releases, and software upgrades.  Design and develop web based solutions with the latest .Net framework using C#  programming language and Visual Studio.  Develop and debug web services on WCF platform.  Manage source code and builds in Team Foundation Server (TFS).  Develop and troubleshoot stored procedures in SQL Server.  Create technical documentation for internal and external clients that accurately  describe the configuration of technology utilized to implement a solution Education Towson University 2008 to 2015 Computer Science Harford Community College 2004 to 2008 Skills C# (7 years), .NET (7 years), Java (3 years), C++ (2 years), SQL (5 years), XML (5 years), Perl (1 year), Visual Studio (8 years), WPF (2 years), MySQL, CSS, Javascript Assessments Data Analysis — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's skill in interpreting and producing graphs, identifying trends, and drawing justifiable conclusions from data. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/xe0xeatbzuz0mukl Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information SKILLS  Highly Proficient:  C#, .NET 4.0+ Framework, Visual Studio, Microsoft SQL Management Studio, XML, Windows Forms, XAML,  SQL, MySQL, Database Design, Object Oriented Programming, Team Foundation Server  Moderately Proficient:  VB.NET, UML, JSON, Java, HTML, JavaScript, SQLite, PERL  Minimally Proficient:  Ruby on Rails, ASP.NET, AJAX, PHP