Senior Software Engineer Senior <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Senior Software Engineer - Healthcare Finance Direct, Bakersfield Bakersfield, CA Work Experience Senior Software Engineer Healthcare Finance Direct, Bakersfield April 2019 to Present Designed and developed advanced logging software that replaced an an-premise solution with a de-coupled cloud solution using Amazon Message Queue and SQL Server running on an Amazon box. Configured real time monitoring using a web application called Data Dog to increase visibility of primary business functions. Maintain, troubleshoot and add features to legacy software as we work to migrate to more modern loosely coupled client and server applications. Develop robust reports using SSRS and SQL Server. Senior Developer A-C Electric Company, Bakersfield June 2016 to April 2018 As the first web developer at the company I was responsible for building over a dozen custom line of business applications. Over the course of 3 years I taught and trained another developer who was able to successfully replace me upon my departure. As a full stack developer, I had full control and built several RESTful Web Apis using .NET core that handled complex business rules, data connections, and security that powered our front-end apps using React JS. I instituted a remote work policy for the developers, one of whom was filling the role as UI/UX designer, that increased productivity by over 30%. Database Administrator Panama-Buena Vista Union School District, Bakersfield November 2015 to June 2016 Created a robust backup disaster and recovery plan (BDR Plan). Created OLAP data services for reporting. Optimized SQL performance. Created an analytics application that helped teachers and administrators better monitor and intervene when children needed the most help. Automated over a hundred manual processes using simple console applications that connected to various state and city data sources. Programmer I Kern County Probation Department, Bakersfield January 2015 to November 2015 Designed and built a warehouse application for inventory management. Learned SQL and fixed several dozen reports with faulty data and created detailed data driven reports using Excel. Skills Data analysis, Database administrator, Database, Microsoft sql server, Sql server, Sql, .net, Android studio, Api, Git, Html, .net core, Swift, Ssrs, Devops, Android, Jira, Css, Front end, Workflow, Javascript, Linux, Java Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/bryan-mudge-3a9ab71a Additional Information SKILLS AND ACCOMPLISHMENTS    ? Backend: .NET, .NET Core, Web Api, Microservices, AWS, Azure, Google Cloud, MSSQL, Data Analysis, SSRS  ? Frontend HTML, CSS, JS, React, Node, Adobe XD  ? Mobile: React Native, Flutter, Swift, Android Studio  ? Project Management: DevOps, Scrum, Agile, Jira, Monday, TFS, Git  ? Snap Workflow - Custom Forms Application: Created custom forms application with .NET web api and react front end that included custom creation, routing, and advanced workflows integrated into other line of business applications resulting in a cost savings of over $60,000 a year in replacement costs alone.  ? Panalytics - Data Driven Intervention Tool: Developed an analytics application that combined data from over a dozen different state, local, and internal testing systems into an easy to use application for the faculty at the school district to better track the progress of children as they progressed through the grades which helped improve learning by allowing teachers to intervene at a much earlier time.  ? The Drive To Succeed - From Zero to Hero in SQL: Learned Microsoft SQL Server over the course of four months after it had been discovered that a lot of state reporting had been incorrect. This saved/generated several million dollars in funding for the probation department and also helped me land a job as a Database Administrator soon after.