Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer - Atlantic Home Loans, Inc • Full Stack developer with over 5 years experience in analysis, design, coding, implementation using Microsoft .NET technologies ASP.NET C#  • Developed single page applications (SPA) using Angular.  • Extensive experience in object-oriented languages, including Microsoft C#, and proven ability in Angular projects by using Typescript.  • Provided cross-host communication using Cross-origin resource sharing (CORS), a method that allows an application to communicate with Web API  • Advanced knowledge in front-end languages such as HTML5, CSS, JavaScript and Bootstrap, Angular material to maintain logic, design and styling, make it more responsive and interactive.  • Expertise in front-end development using jQuery and Ajax to allow updating the pages without reloading, also include validation using Unobtrusive.  • Proficient in ASP.NET technologies such as Web Forms, MVC 5, Web Services, WCF and Web API. Many projects draw from different models of the framework.  • Hands-on experience in creating Angular modules, components, directives, and filters to deploy the entire business logic.  • Knowledgeable in writing data base design concepts in MS SQL Server, including database design and normalization, which provides the basis for data use in projects.  • Extensive experience in accessing and modifying storing data, by using LINQ, Entity Framework 6 in Database first and Code first approach. Additionally, worked with building N-tier and Onion architecture for projects that require RDS data  • Used Fiddler, Postman and SOAPUI to test and debug Web API to optimize the running process  • Developed and performed test cases using Jasmine and Karma in the unit test  • Maintained the code using version control system such as Git.  • Successfully completed projects involved with Agile and Scrum SDLC methodologies to communicate project requirements and ensure timely results.  • Utilized Azure DevOp, JIRA for team projects management and communication with team members. Work Experience Software Developer Atlantic Home Loans, Inc - Parsippany, NJ August 2018 to Present Atlantic Home Loans is mortgage bankers, business is providing for home financing clients. Company strives to be the premier mortgage lender in a market, and focusing on mortgage banking. Project about loan tracking reporting system, to customize work with the clients, adding features as searching, filtering and reporting services. The project is a Single Page Application (SPA) and using Angular 6, 7    Roles and Responsibilities:  • Working in Agile Methodologies for rapid development and regular adaption to the varying requirements and continuous delivery of the working software.  • Created Angular components, modules, and services to separate and decouple the different features of the project and to allow certain functionalities to be replicated throughout, such as employing Web API  • Implemented routing using RouterModule to enable easy navigation throughout the project and to assist in the authentication  • Used HTML, CSS3, Bootstrap, Typescript at the front-end to provide design, styling, and logic for the project  • Implemented .Net Security features of Authentication and Authorization.  • Enable CORS to allow communication between the front-end Angular project and the back-end Web API functionality  • Employed RESTful WEB API services at the back-end that allows the project to retrieve and manipulate data from the back-end  • Created WEB API Services and Client Proxy for communication between Application Server and Web Server.  • Demonstrated create, read, update, and delete (CRUD) functionalities using the Web API POST, GET, PUT, and DELETE methods  • Utilized Entity Framework database first approach to set up a connection with SQL Server to retrieve and pass data.  • Used Postman, SOAPUI to test the Web API to ensure proper functionality of the back-end  • Added GitHub as Version Control Tool.  • Experience with unit testing frameworks such as Jasmine and Karma.    Environment: Angular 6-7, Web API, MVC5, Entity Framework 6, Typescript, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, Visual Studio Code, Visual Studio 2017, Postman, SOAPUI, MS SQL Server 2017, Git, Postman, Jasmine and Karma, Agile methodology Software Developer QualCare, Inc - Piscataway, NJ February 2018 to August 2018 QualCare one of the region's leading providers of health care coverage, provides the public and private marketplace with a higher-quality, lower-cost alternative to commercial insurance companies. Project about task management system and the company was interested to extend functionalities by adding new features by using Angular 6 and 7.    Roles and Responsibilities:  • Involve in all the phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including Analysis, Design, Programming, Testing and Deployment.  • Worked with Bootstrap framework and Angular2+ to Design Single Page Application  • Used HTML5, CSS3 and Typescript and Angular material at the front-end to provide design, styling, and logic for the project  • Created Angular Components, Modules, Directives and Services to separate and decouple the different features of the project and to allow certain functionalities to be replicated throughout, such as employing WEB API  • Used Observable from the RXJS library in the service layer to enable subscription in the component  • Applied Route Guard for securing routes by using canActivate, canDeactivate interfaces  • Implemented CRUD operations using $http service to call Web API methods.  • Enable CORS to allow communication between the front-end Angular project and the back-end WEB API functionality  • Employed RESTful Web API services at the back-end that allows the project to retrieve and manipulate data from the back-end  • Utilized Entity Framework for mapping models to database and insert, retrieve and update database.  • Modified MS SQL Server to create the tables and sample data for testing purposes  • Used Postman, Fiddler to test the Web API to ensure proper functionality of the back-end  • Added GitHub as Version Control Tool    Environment: Angular 6, MVC5, WEB API, Entity Framework 6, C#, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, LINQ, Visual Studio Code, Visual Studio 2015, MS SQL Server 2017, Postman, Fiddler, GIT, SDLC Software Developer Bolt on technology, Inc - Southampton, PA November 2016 to February 2018 Bolt on technology's auto repair software solutions give repair shop the power to streamline operations and create happy, repeat customers. The project was developed to manage the statistic of employees, creating reports, upgrading statistic, focusing on analytical and financial structure. This project is done using the capabilities of ASP.NET MVC    Roles and Responsibilities:  • Involved in the Full-Stack development of Web applications using the latest of technologies for the different tiers of an application.  • Used HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap and C# at the front end to provide design, styling, and logic for the project  • Employed Layout page and multiple partial views combine the view as a single view when launched  • Implemented searching and filtering of patient using JavaScript and Ajax. Users can search by name, id, and age without refreshing the page.  • Application development using MVC (Model View Controller) based framework which provides a strong separation of concerns between the code and also encourages the reusability of components between packages and also sometimes between applications.  • Developed an application that combines the concepts of ASP.NET MVC and Onion Architecture  • Repository Pattern is used to build this project by combining service-oriented application. Most notably, the service employs an autocomplete feature and units of works to provide the functionality to the rest of the project  • Developing infrastructure framework using Inversion of controls, Dependency Injection Unity  • Experience of Object relation mapping using ADO.NET, Entity Framework, LINQ to SQL, LINQ to objects, and Lambda Expressions used in LINQ.  • Entity Framework Database first approach was used to allow the program to connect with the database  • Demonstrated create, read, update and delete (CRUD) functionalities for hire requests  • Used MS SQL Server to create the tables and sample data via SQL command. The sample data were to test the application  • All issues were tracked using JIRA and GitHub was used for source control.  • Implement agile scrum methodology in application development.    Environment: MVC 5, Entity Framework 6, C#, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, jQuery, Ajax, SQL, LINQ, Visual Studio 2015, and Microsoft SQL Server Management Studio 2012, JIRA, GIT, Agile methodology Software Developer The Neat Company, Inc - Philadelphia, PA November 2015 to November 2016 The Neat Company focuses exclusively on developing powerful yet cost effective tools for small business that help with expense management, automated bookkeeping and document organization. Project about implementing a management system to customize help service, adding features as reporting services, searching services by using MVC WCF.    Roles and Responsibilities:  • Developed an application that combines the concepts of ASP.NET MVC and N-tier Architecture  • Used HTML5, CSS3, and C# at the front end to provide design, styling, and logic for the project  • Employed JavaScript, jQuery, and AJAX to enable searching and filtering of jobs without need to reload the page. The functionality is connected to the front-end through WCF  • Application development using MVC (Model View Controller) based framework which provides a strong separation of concerns between the code and reusability of components.  • Added routing and Authentication for easy navigability and security through a username and password coupled with Form Validation  • Effectively used Session and Cookies for users to validate and to make a timeout for the connectivity with the database.  • Used Filter at both global and controller level for exception handling  • Demonstrated create, read, update and delete (CRUD) functionalities for hire requests  • Entity Framework Database first was used to allow the program to connect with the database  • Enable CORS to allow communication between the MVC project and the WCF functionality  • Get and post actions are used to retrieve and update data from WCF in the form of XML and JSON.  • SQL statements were used to obtain the appropriate data from the database. For example, it is used in filtering the database during a search  • The model establishes the job class, the view displays the system, and the controller, provides the necessary functionalities. Used NUnit for units testing  • User Postman to test the Web AOU to ensure proper functionality of the back-end  • All issues were tracked using JIRA and GitHub was used for source control.  • Implement agile scrum methodology in application development.    Environment: MVC 5, Entity Framework 6, C#, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Ajax, SQL, LINQ, Visual Studio 2015, and Microsoft SQL Server Management Studio 2012, JIRA, GIT, Agile methodology Software Developer SMA Laboratory, Inc - Feasterville-Trevose, PA June 2014 to November 2015 Medical laboratory guided from basic tests and preventive screenings to the most innovative tests that involve latest technology as Drug test, Blood test etc. Recreating project from 3rd party application, with updating from ASP.NET Web forms to new MVC technologies.    Roles and Responsibilities:  • Rewrite an application the utilizes the concepts from ASP.NET Web Forms to MVC  • Used HTML, CSS3 and C# at the front-end to rewrite design, styling, logic for the project introduced to object-oriented programming (OOP) through C#  • Modified patient insurance information by adding Pop up window, and added a validation using jQuery to an intranet MVC application for new patient orders.  • Modified multiple stored procedures to obtain appropriate data from tables about patient information and patient orders using SQL server.  • Implemented searching and filtering of patient using JavaScript and Ajax. Users can search by name, id, and age without refreshing the page.  • Added create, read, update and delete (CRUD) functionality for new patients to an intranet MVC application.  • Modified Data-table form adding more columns, by using Pop up window for search patient diagnoses.  • Employed N-Tier architecture that included Presentation, Business and Data Access Layers using C#.Net, ASP.NET, MVC and SQL.  • An ADO.NET Connection string was used to allow the program to connect with the database  • Implemented Stored Procedures, Views, Indexes and User Defined Functions to retrieve the data from the central database SQL Server 2012.  • Exposure to all stages of SDLC ( Software Development Life Cycle), Software Test Life Cycle (STLC), and Waterfall methodology    Environment: ASP.NET Web Forms, MVC, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, ADO.NET, SQL Server 2012. Visual studio 2013, Waterfall methodology Education Associate degree in Tashkent American Advanced Institute of Technology - Philadelphia, PA Skills Ado, Database, Ado.net, Microsoft sql server, Sql server, Sql, .net, Visual studio, Api, C#, Git, Html, Javascript, Bootstrap, Typescript, Json, Wcf, Xml, Mvc, Sdlc