Front End Software Developer - ReactJS Front End <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> - ReactJS Front End Software Developer - ReactJS - Songtradr Los Angeles, CA Work Experience Front End Software Developer - ReactJS Songtradr - Los Angeles, CA August 2018 to Present Fully automated music licensing marketplace technology startup  ? Developed our social connections project, which uses oauth and permissions handling to collect our users'  Facebook, Twitter, Spotify, instagram, and YouTube information, and graphically displays it back to them. The data  collected in this project was later vital in making our search engine more robust.  ? Took lead in developing our admin metadata tagging tool, which allows Songtradr's music curators to quickly and effectively tag our user posted songs.  ? Consistently met or outperformed project management's target tasks and schedule. Full Stack Software Developer Youth Mentoring Connection - LosAngeles, CA, US April 2017 to September 2018 AngularJS, C#, SQL  Nonprofit helping to transform lives of at risk youth  ? Implemented image uploads and storage to AWS S3, initial configuration of AWS S3, image cropping, size/quality  manipulation, CSV spreadsheet uploads (a tool for admins to register several items to the DB concurrently), and the company/company-people administration page.  ? Built an internal line-of-business application for managing operations and automating the prior manual process with a single, integrated application.  ? The application is a SPA web application backed by Microsoft SQL Server database exposed via RESTful Web API.  Employed an agile SDLC. Freelance Software Consulting Los Angeles, CA July 2017 to July 2018 Full Stack Software Developer - AngularJS, C#, SQL, MongoDB  Personal software development and consulting firm, serving a multitude of small businesses  ? Developed custom front-end components for professional artist/designer Charlie Edmiston, nonprofit HappyTrails, and digital marketing firm JourneyEngine.  ? Created PacificSurfTrade, an e-commerce search engine that allows users to search specialized surf equipment in an optimized fashion. Configuration Test Analyst Chrome River Technologies - Los Angeles, CA March 2016 to March 2017 Expense reporting and invoicing automation SAAS firm  ? Extensively tested financial business logic written in Java and SQL, communicating with our engineers, clients, and project managers on a regular basis.  ? Ensured that our custom software configuration met and exceeded our clients' business needs, as well as our own  company's standards. Education SDSU Mechatronics - Robotics Academic Organization - San Diego, CA May 2014 to May 2015 Bachelors of Science in Management Information Systems San Diego State University - San Diego, CA May 2015 Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/wyatt-elliott http://github.com/wyattwade