Contract Architect Contract Architect Contract Architect Saint Louis Park, MN Work Experience Contract Architect Infinity Car Insurance - Birmingham, AL 2017 to 2018 Rebuild of aging web services with micro services using Sprint Boot, Netflix stack, and test-driven development  practices. Software Developer Logistics Health - La Crosse, WI 2017 to 2017 2017  Rebuild of a web application allowing military personal to view schedule, conduct, and follow-up any medical  appointment within an Angular driven web dashboard. Made primary use of the Angular 2 CLI, CSS, VbScript  .NET, and SQL Server. Project was being moved to C# and WebAPI back-end. Software Developer Trane - White Bear Lake, MN 2016 to 2017 Rebuild of a web application allowing building personal to login to any Trane equipped building throughout the US.  Information of Things ("IOT") technology that brings buildings to life, allowing users to change air flow  configurations, etc. Java REST ("Representational State Transfer") API consumption and proprietary based  firmware within each Trane building device. Software Developer Patterson - Mendota Heights, MN 2015 to 2016 Rebuild of a dental application in .NET. Made primary use of Microsoft Azure, WebAPI, LINQ, C#, and SQL  Server. Software Developer Bluestem Brands - Eden Prairie, MN 2014 to 2015 Contributed to the checkout team productivity. The team, comprised of two developers, managed the workflow for all checkout, billing, and sign-on features. The agile team consisted of a project manager, a product owner, BA,  QA, and developers. Each sprint lasted two weeks and developers were assigned 2-3 tasks per week. Made use of  Knockout.JS, Java, and Docker. Built the instant sign-on feature for fingerhut.com. This can be viewed online:  https://drive.google.com/open?id=1QQsMq94UpaZdwOkTVZkV-GJII3AdjNZ4 Software Developer Thomson Reuters - Eagan, MN 2013 to 2014 Helped build a Facebook like web application for WestLaw. Expert witnesses, judges, and attorney profiles. For  example, collected all relevant data pertaining to individual profiles e.g., education, location, professional  associations, addresses, clerks, judicial decisions, etc. Software Developer VISA - Foster City, CA 2012 to 2013 Built a startup text message driven application allowing vendor attached customers to receive SMS coupons upon any Visa transaction using real-time GPS services. Core application in .NET and related technologies including  SQL Server and IBM WebSphere Message Queues. Assistant to the former Director of Software Engineering and  Lead Software Architect. Collected thousands of data points per transaction to sell to retail vendors including GAP and Starbucks. Developer Nerdery - Bloomington, MN 2010 to 2011 Contributed to small and medium-sized projects. Made us of CSS, JQuery, Ruby, .NET, and Java. Education M.S. in Software Engineering University of Saint Thomas - Saint Paul, MN 2010 Skills JAVA (4 years), CSS (2 years), jQuery (2 years), C# (1 year), API (1 year) Links http://www.brockfredin.com Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Languages: JavaScript, C#, Java  Back-End: Node.js, Express.js, Web API, Spring Boot, Netflix Stack  Front-End: HTML/CSS, Bootstrap, jQuery, React.js, Redux, AngularJS, Post CSS  Tools: Selenium, TDD, Agile, Scrum, Docker, AWS, Azure, Jenkins