Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer Cary, NC Work Experience Software Developer IBM - Raleigh, NC March 2015 to July 2019 Designing, coding and testing a block-chain application which allows multiple entities to validate the hiring and payment of contract-workers across the globe. My part of the project involves ingesting data from DB2 databases into the blockchain. I am writing an application in Java and Python which will grab the required data from DB2 Z/OS database servers, contact our blockchain API, and insert the required data into the block-chain. The application I am writing is on Linux Ubuntu 16.04 using Java 8.0 and converting the application to Python 3.6.    Designed, coded and helped test a Cognitive java application which allows users to quickly search IBM error logs, and find results which may help them solve critical issues with many IBM applications. Web application uses IBM Watson API to search the error-logs and return relevant results. Front-end of the website, hosted on BlueMix, uses node.js, HTML5, CSS, javascript, Jquery and React. Back-end of the website uses DB2 and Cloudant DB. Writing the data ingestion code using java 8.0, JDBC and hibernate. Creating a java API layer for the data ingestion calls.    Participated in the design, coding and testing of an enterprise solution for allowing companies to quickly ramp-up virtual machines using almost any operating system. I designed and wrote the code for creating Docker containers which holds the website, middle-tier logic, API and backend database for the application. Created a docker repository for distribution of containers. Helped write the back-end code and API using Ruby, Python and Java. Front-end technology uses javascript, HTML5, AngularJS and CSS. Backend database was programmed in MongoDB. Software Engineer INTEL - Chandler, AZ July 2010 to February 2015 Planned, coded and tested a .Net website for displaying indicators and analysis of software requirements for my department. Website utilized C# 5.0, MVC 5, Typescript 1.0, Web API 2.0, Knock-out for javascript data-binding, and SQL Server 2008 R2 for data retrieval. Created Windows 2012 web-servers as virtual machines for hosting the web application and hosting the database. Was SQL server administrator for the project.    Designed, coded, tested and published a website for matching software requirements to validation test-cases. This website allows management to create greater accountability of how our product software is designed and tested. Website team used agile methodologies and scrum practices for design, coding and testing. Visual Studio 2012 with .Net 4.0 and MVC 4 framework. Entity Framework 4.2 as the data access layer. SQL server 2008 as the actual database. Repository pattern for business layer between views and database models. Heavy use of javascript and CSS. Not only did I help code and test the front-end portion, I was the SQL server admin for the database, and the IIS admin for publishing and monitoring the website.    Coded and tested a task management system for the Global Deployment Services Department at Intel. Software developed in Visual Studio 2010, C# 3.5, Silverlight 4.0, and SQL Server 2005. Multi-tiered design. Heavy-use of web services (ASMX), Class libraries, XAML, Telerik third-party controls, and stored procedures. Served as database administrator for the project. Received training with iRise website proto-typing software.    Designed, coded and tested MVC 3 applications using Razor. Designed and implemented the back-end databases in SQL Server 2008 R2. Wrote the middle-tier part of the MVC 3 websites using repository patterns and models. Connected the front-end of the websites to the middle-tier using C# controllers in conjunction with Jquery, javascript and Razor. Styled the webpages with CSS3. Education Computer Science Degree in Engineering Arizona State University March 2007 to March 2010 Skills MYSQL, Git, MYSQL, Git