Sr. Software Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Software Developer - Datamatics Global Services Limited US Major strengths are familiarity with multiple software systems, ability to learn quickly new technologies, adapt to new environments, self-motivated team, player focused adaptive and quick learner with excellent interpersonal, technical and communication skills.  I have worked on Agile methodology and hence possess knowledge of Agile process.  I have served as a Scrum Master for the period of 6 months.  Experienced in Website development with demonstration of Software Development Life Cycle.  Effective communicator with excellent in relationship building and interpersonal skills. Work Experience Sr. Software Developer Datamatics Global Services Limited February 2018 to Present Software Developer Celusion Technologies May 2016 to February 2018 Software Developer Blue Star Infotech June 2013 to April 2016 Education Master in Computer Applications Bharti Vidyapeeth, Mumbai University Bachelor of Computer Science in Computer Science CHM College, Mumbai University Additional Information EXPERTISE  Languages/Technologies: C#, HTML, Ajax, jQuery, Web API.  Frameworks: .NET, MVC, Entity Framework, Angular.  IDEs and Tools: Visual Studio 2012/15, Git.  Databases: SQL Server.  PROJECTS  1) DeLaRue (Feb 2018 - till date)  Organization: Datamatics Global Solutions Limited  Technologies: Angular 5, WebApi, Git/VSTS  Role and Responsibilities: Designed and coded application components in an Agile environment. Participated in various SCRUM ceremonies.  Worked in close cooperation with project managers and other functional team members to form a team effort in development.  Overview: Delarue provides the most secure passport and national identity services and complete identity data management solutions. Identify is a passport application which includes modules like Registration, Verification, Personalization, Issuance, Inventory.    2) Creditsafe UK (May 2016 - Feb 2018)  Organization: Celusion Technologies  Technologies: ASP.NET, C#, Jquery, Oracle  Role and Responsibilities: Software Developer, gathering and analysing requirements, setting priorities, development, testing.  Overview: Creditsafe is the world's most used provider of online business credit reports. We're changing the way business information is used and we're bringing the Creditsafe revolution to the USA. From our offices in Allentown PA we'll be making life better for businesses across the whole of North America.    3) Kuoni Travels (July 2014 to April 2016)  Organization: Blue Star Infotech  Technologies: ASP.NET MVC, C#, JQuery, CSS, SQL server 2008  Role and Responsibilities: Software Developer, gathering and analysing requirements, setting priorities, development, testing.  Overview: A UK based organization, Kuoni Travels is a well-established name in Travel domain. Application helps users to book online tours to the various destinations across the globe with the PIXIE users. Super Admin users configures the data essential for the PIXIE users to book the tour. End user gets the details complied in a PDF via mail from PIXIE users.    4) Planview (June 2013 to June 2014)  Organization: Blue Star Infotech  Technologies: ASP.NET, C#, Jquery, Sharepoint  Role: Software Developer  Overview: Planview Enterprise delivers visibility into and control of project portfolios, enabling you to efficiently prioritize work and make better decisions around request management, planning, and resource capacity. This PPM functionality is included in the base Planview Enterprise offering Enterprise Portfolio Management, which also provides the capacity to perform strategic planning and investment analysis, all within an integrated framework.    5) Campaign Management System (Feb-March 2013)  Organization: Blue Star Infotech  Technologies: ASP.NET MVC, C#, Jquery, CSS, SQL server 2008  Role and Responsibilities: Software Developer, gathering and analysing requirements, setting priorities, development, testing.  Overview: Campaign Management System is a Web Application which helps to campaign the products of different vendors online and get effective results.