senior software developer senior <span class="hl">software</span> <span class="hl">developer</span> senior software developer - Nexient Ann Arbor, MI ? Over 7 years of IT experience, includes all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including Analysis, design, implementation, integration, testing and maintenance of applications using JAVA/J2EE technologies.  ? Strong implementation experience on Spring framework, modules include Spring IOC, Spring MVC, Spring Web-services and Spring Security. Have experience in integrating spring security with LDAP. Have good knowledge in authentication and Authorization using spring. Very good at application context and configuring different APIs in application context.  ? Expertise in ORM specification like JPA and implementation framework like Hibernate. Very good in object relational mapping concepts and different types of mappings. Good in configuring Hibernate with Spring application context. Very good at generating entities and CRUD operations. Good in session management and transaction management. Expertise in HQL and criteria APIs. Hands on in projections and report generation.  ? Good experience in web MVC frameworks like Angular JS, implementing SPA applications with custom directives and angular routing and controller concepts. Having 5 years of Experience in Java and J2EE related technologies with Web 2.0.  ? Proficient in producing and consuming SOAP and REST based web services. Expertise in top down and Bottom up approaches. Good in validating and understanding WSDL. Very good at generating stubs for the WSDL files.  ? Expertise in build tools like Apache Maven. Developed custom plugins. Have good knowledge in maven architecture and maven-based applications. Have debugging skills in maven related Issues. Work Experience senior software developer Nexient - Ann Arbor, MI October 2016 to Present Worked as Systems Engineer at Tata Consultancy Services (Hyderabad, India) for 4 years and 4 months, having functional experience in designing along with maintaining database applications, including implementation and support to designed systems for applications. Associated with various phases of SDLC including Requirements Analysis, Design and Construction, Testing, Implementation & Post implementation support. Have worked primarily in the domain of Insurance.  ? Working in Nexient (Ann Arbor, MI) as senior software developer from October 2016, Responsibilities include Architecture design and application development and maintenance. Education Master of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science University of South Alabama - Mobile, AL January 2015 to July 2016 Bachelor of Engineering in Computer Engineering in BTech, C.S.E Sri Krishna Devaraya University - Kurnool, Andhra Pradesh May 2005 to June 2009 Skills Application server, Database, Jdbc, Mysql, Oracle