Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer - Agadia Systems, INC Parsippany, NJ 5 years of experience as a .NET Developer in designing, developing, implementing, troubleshooting and maintaining, multi-tier Web Based Applications using C#, ASP.NET, MVC, Web Forms, ADO.NET and SQL Server.    • Experience in the complete Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) application includes software design, development, testing and maintenance.  • Expertise in Microsoft Technologies, such as .NET Framework, C#, ASP.NET MVC, AJAX, Web Services, Visual Studio2015/2013/2012.  • Good working experience in writing JQUERY/AJAX based web applications.  • Used Version Controlling tools such as Team Foundation Server (TFS) and Visual Source Safe.  • Proficient in developing T-SQL queries, stored procedures, user-defined functions, cursors and triggers using SQL SERVER.  • Efficiently used the database Connectivity API's (ADO, ADO.NET) in Client Server and Web Applications  • Expert in using ADO.Net Entity Framework to connect to SQL Server Database  • Experience on ADO.NET components such as Datasets, Data Adapter, Data Reader, Data View & Data Table to access & update database.  • Experience in generating Custom Reports and different types of Tabular, Matrix and distributed reports in multiple formats using SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS).  • Used Agile Scrum Methodology. Work Experience Software Developer Agadia Systems, INC - Parsippany, NJ February 2018 to Present RxContinuum is web-based software that simplifies and automates the tracking and resolution of patient adherence to prescribed medications and patient therapy safety issues.    Responsibilities:  • Extensive involvement in all stages of Software development life cycle including Analysis, Design, Development, Implementation, testing and support.  • Extensively used Object Oriented programming Techniques such as Encapsulation, Inheritance, polymorphism and Abstract Classes.  • Involved in full life cycle of the project from requirements gathering to transition using Agile/Scrum Methodology.  • Extensively used the Model View Control (MVC) Pattern concepts in the overall design and development of the system.  • Used ASP.NET MVC (using the Razor engine) to design front end.  • Worked on MVC View Layout, Partial Views, and Html Helpers.  • Extensively used Html Helpers like Textbox, TextArea, Checkbox, Hiddenfield, Dropdownlist, Listbox etc.  • Responsible for Designing and Developing the Reusable UI Components Like MVC Master Pages "Layouts and Nested Layouts", "View Start" and MVC User Controls "Partial Views".  • Developed code for routing in MVC.  • Used MVC Controller Action selectors, Action Results, Action Filters to control the behavior.  • Used Data Annotation validators to perform validation in an ASP.NET MVC application.  • Created Custom Validator Attribute and used for multiple Models in MVC.  • Designed and developed Business logic for components in C# for Model and Controllers.  • Consumed the rest services using rest sharp.  • Wrote JQuery functions and code to implement front end validations and to handle user selections at multiple areas of application.  • Used JIRA to track the progress of project.  • Used Entity Framework to connect to the database and make database calls.  • Developed SQL stored procedures, Views as per the business requirements.  • Created Queries and Joins on multiple tables, also was responsible for writing Stored procedures, Triggers.  • Team Foundation server is used as source code repository and to maintain the tasks related to the project and setting up automated builds in Visual Studio Team System (VSTS) 2008 and TFS.    Environment: .Net framework 4.5, C#, MVC 4, Visual Studio 2015, HTML 5, JavaScript, ADO.NET Entity Framework, Web API, MS SQL Server 2014, Team Foundation Server 2015 Software Developer Agadia Systems, INC February 2016 to January 2018 PaHub is a web-based solution to automate prior authorization process that reduces the turn around time and increase the operational and clinical efficiencies.    Responsibilities:  • Enhanced the web application for electronic prior authorization in ASP.NET MVC, jQuery, ADO.NET, C#, and entity framework.  • Reviewed and understand the requirements and technical specifications as part of solution  • Develop complex MVC Controller, ViewModels and Helper methods linked to backend database.  • Working experience with Partial View, Razor view, Web API controller and MVC controller  • Working knowledge on client-side validation using JQuery validation.  • Provided technical solution within team members to solve technical difficulties in code development.  • Involved in Writing, Modifying T-SQL Queries, Stored Procedures and Triggers using SQL Server.  • Worked as part of an AGILE development team to create and modify software solutions that reduced time to delivery and improved quality  • Created and consumed WCF 4.0 services which are based on SOA architecture to expose the application functionality for different transport protocols.  • Designed the database using ADO.NET and was involved in writing and maintaining complex SQL Queries and the Required Stored Procedures and Triggers.  • Develop SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS) web apps.    Environment: .Net Framework (4.0/3.5/3.0), ASP.NET, C#.NET, Web Services, WCF, AJAX, ADO.NET, SQL Server 2008/2005, XML, HTML, JAVA SCRIPT, SSRS, Unit testing, System Testing, Visual Studio 2015 Software Developer Hard and Soft Consultancy - Surat, Gujarat June 2014 to December 2016 The Project was for agricultural sector. I was working on a project that helps farmer connect and enable them to exchange the thoughts via portal.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in the development of new applications and enhancement of existing applications to provide additional functionality.  • Developed WebForms in ASP.Net using C#.Net, AJAX Controls, HTML and JavaScript.  • Created WCF Services responsible for communicating and providing real time data from integrated server to Client Application.  • Created and consumed WCF Services using C#, ADO.NET and SQL Server.  • Achieved database connectivity and data processing using ADO.NET.  • Developed Web Forms using Master Pages, HTML controls and CSS.  • Created event driven Web Forms using ASP.NET and implemented Form Validation.  • Used Web Services (SOAP, WSDL) for communicating with other application and components.  • Client and server side validations using JavaScript and Validation Controls and performing the tasks related Database issues.  • Used SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS) for extraction transformation and loading data and scheduled SSIS Packages daily and weekly Basis.  • Experience in designing and implementing database-level T-SQL, Views, SQL Queries  • Created tables and Stored Procedures in SQL Server and used ADO.net to access the data.    Environment: .Net Framework 4.0/3.5, Visual Studio 2010, ASP.Net, WebForms, C#, AJAX, ADO.NET, SQL Server, SSIS. Education Bachelor's