Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer Laguna Niguel, CA Software engineer with 9 years of experience specializing in web development looking for full-stack position. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Developer S4i systems Inc - San Clemente, CA October 2018 to August 2019 ? Improved user interface by creating easy-to-use and organizable folder structure, analyzing design specification and implementing them over full-stack, reducing product release date by 2 months  ? Led analytics project by designing and implementing the requirement using Elasticsearch and open source visualization tool, creating 15 visualizations for analytics monitoring  ? Developed JavaScript plugins that sit between our system and open source visualization tool by analyzing the difference between the systems, bridging the gap and limitation and improving user interface  ? Improved REST API endpoints by changing algorithms and backend components such as user authentication, connection and database, generating fast, error-safe and responsive endpoints, reducing 50% of API related backlogs  ? Conducted performance test by analyzing and comparing different algorithms and implementations with various dataset ranging from hundreds to millions, resulting in optimal solutions for the project Software Engineer Dongbu Life Insurance Inc - Seoul, KR July 2009 to April 2017 Defined requirements, designed, developed and tested programs through system development life cycle on the IBM WebSphere environment with average 1 million monthly users  ? Improved performance of existing programs by monitoring, analyzing and modifying algorithms, resulting in up to 60% performance increase  ? Achieved up to 80% reduction in execution time by tuning 50+ SQL and managing 20+ tables' index  ? Generated loan analytical data using SQL for company's strategic planning every month, resulting in up to 8% loan user increase  ? Collaborated with a diverse group of people on in-house projects (front-end improvement, mobile, government related) that use different system such as ASP by providing easy-to-use APIs and making sure  they were developed in accordance with the existing system  ? Managed 2000+ dormant insurance policies every year by checking the amount of money calculated and modifying algorithms, which allowed $2,000,000+ safe transfer to government institute every year  ? Expanded virtual bank account system on SOAP-based web service by cooperating with POS system company for diverse requirements depending on banks and carrying out test with banks, which increased 10% of virtual bank account user over a year  ? Managed 240,000+ automatic transfers by monitoring program and checking data consistency, allowing $6,000,000+ safe money transfers every month  ? Improved tax reporting system by modifying tax calculation algorithm and adding direct reporting through web service, generating 200,000+ customers' annual tax reports in a timely manner Education M.S. in Computer Science Sogang University - Seoul, KR 2009 B.S. in Computer Science Sogang University - Seoul, KR 2007 Skills C++ (1 year), JAVASCRIPT (10+ years), BOOTSTRAP, PHP (3 years), Git (3 years), CSS, Java (10+ years), Scala (Less than 1 year), SQL (10+ years)