Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer - World Wildlife Fund Washington, DC ? More than 7+ years of experience in Microsoft Technologies.  ? Experience in Web Application/Windows Application Design, development and maintenance  ? Involved in all phases of application software life cycle (SDLC) including analysis, database design & development, implementation & trouble shooting of internet/intranet/client server applications with Testing and support of software applications.  ? Implemented Data Access Layer, Business Entities, Business Logic Layer, Service Interface Layer and Service Access Layer using C#.NET, ADO.NET, WCF, WPF and LINQ.  ? Created websites using MVC 4 and MVC 5  ? Worked with AngularJS and J Query to improve an MVC website's UI layer  ? Expertise in working with C#, VB.NET, ASP.NET(1.1, 2.0, 3.5,4.0,4.5)  ? Worked with Team Foundation Source Control (TFS) which stores all code, as well as a record of all changes and current check-outs for versioning.  ? Wrote advance SQL Scripts, Stored Procedures, triggers, functions, Indexes and Cursors to implement business logic.  ? Involved in performance tuning and query optimization.  ? Experience in XML, XSLT, XSD, Web services, SQL DTS Services, SSRS, SSIS and Ajax.  ? Sound knowledge in VB6.0,.NET framework and ADO.NET.  ? Extensively worked in SQL server Reporting services (SSRS) to create reports that draw content from a variety of data sources.  ? Developed advanced ETL solutions using SSIS to transfer into different destinations.  ? Used SOAP to Implement Web Services and Consumed and published XML Web Services in the application.  ? Participated in change and code reviews to understand the functional design and business process flow of the system. Working on troubleshooting defects in timely manner.  ? Involved in the continuous enhancements and performed production support.  ? Strong team player with demonstrated ability to find creative solutions.  ? Self-motivated, good learner and quick to adapt many changes has helped to be result oriented. Work Experience Software Developer World Wildlife Fund - Washington, DC August 2018 to Present WWF OGC is eCommerce application for Adaptions, Apparel, More gifts products for online donations. OGC gives options for users to review available adaption Animals for donations, apparel dresses for donations, backpack/basket gifts for donations. Users can review available products in thumbnail view. OGC application provides online checkout and additional donation options to users.    Responsibilities:  ? Designed and built .net core web API 2.1 service. Integrated with existing Sql Server database.  ? Developed a RESTful service using software pattern with .NET Core Web-API to make API calls and organize data.  ? Building Single Page Applications (SPAs) with AngularJS.  ? Developed JavaScript/JQuery for client side validations.  ? Implement new features in HTML5, CSS3.  ? We mainly use for marketing, Reporting, assigning scores and perform analysis on data.  ? Created Angular JS Controller which Isolate scopes perform operations in UI.  ? Written Stored Procedures, Query's for Database connectivity using SQL Server 2014 & 2016.  ? Worked on SSRS reports and included them in the Application.  ? Worked on SSIS Packages to integrate data from other applications to OGC Application to sync data.  ? Involve in complete SDLC, used agile methodologies to implement new feature in incremental way.  ? Experience in troubleshooting the application, analyzing and resolving issues.    Environment: Visual Studio 2017, SQL server 2016, Asp.Net MVC, .Net Core 2.0, C#.Net, Web Api, Entity Framework, XML, TFS Software Developer World Wildlife Fund - Washington, DC March 2018 to August 2018 OGC Admin tool provides admin users to add/update/inactive products for Online Gift Center application. This tool supports changes for adoption, apparel, more gifts modules. It provides admin users to control user access permissions. It provides to add/replace thumbnail, main, details images for Online Gift Center application.    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in the gathering requirements, Co-ordination with team members to discuss the scope of the project.  ? Worked on MVC 5, JQuery, Asp.NET 4 and ADO.NET for the design of the web application.  ? Worked with MVC architecture application using ASPX/Razor view engine.  ? Developed Views, controllers and business logic models using C#.  ? Authentication Action Filters were specified to have one-to-one relationship with possible user interaction.  ? Partial View was created to render in to another view for displaying details from the database without redirecting to another view.  ? Routing was provided to map the action methods for a particular request. Customized routing was used to change the URL path on page loading.  ? Implemented AJAX support for better user experience and good performance.  ? ADO.NET Entity Frameworks were used to make the database connection to the application.  ? For easy accessing of data from database LINQ was used.  ? Involved in daily SCRUM Standup meetings, created and followed PBIs, tasks, bugs & boards via the Visual Studio TFS & TFS Web SCRUM templates    Environment: Visual Studio 2015, SQL server 2014, .Net 4.5, C#.Net, WCF, Entity Framework, XML, TFS Software Developer World Wildlife Fund - Washington, DC January 2017 to March 2018 Hyperion reporting application provides varies real-time reports for Online Gift Application to management users. This application integrates different data sources for reporting purposes. It allows users for analytical calculations for products availability and financial decisions.    Responsibilities:  ? Developed the Design and Functional specifications and Flow of business.  ? Developed and maintained ETL (Extract Transformation and Loading) mappings to extract the data from multiple source systems like Oracle, SQL Server and Flat files and loaded into Oracle  ? Worked on Themes and CSS for the layout of the web application  ? Implemented MVC 5 (Model View Controller) pattern to have a clean separation of concerns and for easy testing of code.  ? We mainly use for marketing, Reporting, assigning scores and perform analysis on data. Once we receive data we apply business requirement provided by the client by using ETL and load Them back to DB2 database.  ? Data annotations were provided to check validations for the model classes. Validations were provided for both client-side and server-side  ? Partial View was created to render in to another view for displaying details from the database without redirecting to another view.  ? Web API's were used for insert, update, delete and getting information from DLL layer by using the POST, PUT, DELETE and GET actions.  ? Created Database using UI class diagram for having clear understanding about the database creation and the connection between the tables, Created the stored procedures, Views, Triggers and user defined functions in sql server.  ? Unit testing was done for testing the code to check for the bugs in the code by using NUnit.  ? Involved in daily SCRUM Standup meetings, created and followed PBIs, tasks, bugs & boards via the Visual Studio TFS & TFS Web SCRUM templates    Environment: Visual Studio 2015, SQL server 2014, .Net 4.5, C#.Net, WCF, Entity Framework, Oracle 11, XML, TFS Software Developer LashGroup - Rockville, MD December 2015 to December 2016 Real time application for sending and receiving of patient details, healthcare provider details, transaction details and document retrievals. It provides admin options to re-sending, blocking, viewing historical data, error handling, and error notification. It also supports faxes, email, auto voice, text reminders to users.    Responsibilities:  ? Developed using MVC 5, HTML5, CSS3, AngularJS, and JQuery  ? Used View Models, Partial Views of MVC with the HTML helper Class  ? Preparing the low level designing document as of requirements  ? Well experienced data extraction , Transforming and Loading (ETL) using various tools such as SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS)  ? Website uses both standard MVC 5 and MVVM to access data from the models.  ? AngularJS used to fill data in the transaction page  ? Accesses SQL database using LINQ.  ? Used various MVC filters such as Authorization Filter, Action Filter, and Authentication Filter.  ? Used Grid. MVC to generate tables in an efficient and clean manner for the user selection page.  ? Utilizes static variables and static objects to fill in data when reloading pages after view bags go out of scope.  ? Implements Razor and HTML5 to design controls  ? Model and controller developed with C#    Environment: Visual Studio 2013, SQL server 2012, MVC, C#, AJAX, J Query, JSON, REST, AngularJS, HTML5, CSS3, TFS Software Developer LashGroup - Rockville, MD April 2013 to December 2015 TheraCall CRM hotline application is to serve patient communities and their unique needs by providing responsive, quality care. Offering the highest levels of service to patients, physicians, specialty pharmacies, product distributors and other care providers, TheraCall seeks to remove barriers to access and drive positive therapeutic outcomes.    Responsibilities:  ? Worked in Production support team for Theracall drug programs  ? Worked on EDI application enhancements  ? Developed outbound fax module API and monitoring job for Fax Status  ? Worked on new enhancements to Theracall hotline application for multiple drugs programs  ? SQL, Stored Procedure and SSIS for enhancement development  ? Error tracing development in Theracall application  ? Worked on to migrate application to run on new environments  ? Developed COM compatible .NET code to consume in VB6 application  ? Involved in the development of Data Access Layer using ADO.Net  ? Interacted with business analysts, end users and worked on the application specifications to Design application architecture, design and code reviews  ? Used ADO.NET objects such as data reader, data adapter and dataset for consistent access of the data from data layer.  ? Involved in loading data from XML files to Database  ? Developed stored procedures, functions, triggers using SQL and T-SQL in SQL Server 2008 for fetching data and binding.  ? Used Microsoft Team Foundation Server for the purpose of version Control and source code maintenance needs.    Environment: Visual Studio 2013, SQL server 2012, .Net 4.5, C#.Net, WCF, Entity Framework, XML, TFS Software Developer LashGroup - Rockville, MD December 2011 to April 2013 various business reports for operations team for patients, physicians, specialty pharmacies, product distributors and other care providers.    Responsibilities:  ? Customized Menu, Label, Toolbar, DataGrid Columns Using Custom Controls  ? Extensive use of COM objects for developing modules for file uploading & sending emails via SMTP servers.  ? Extensively used Report Wizard, Report Builder and Report Manager for developing reports and deploying reports in SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS)  ? Generated periodic reports based on the statistical analysis of the data from various time frame and division using SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS)  ? Created report from two or more different Data Sets, used cascaded parameters to satisfy user requirements.  ? Merged tablixes that are drawn from two different data sets using expression, and created group by reports (SSRS)  ? Extensively involved in using of formula fields, parameter fields, Running Total, Group selection and record selection in Crystal Reports.  ? Converted existing Crystal Reports to SQL Reports using SSRS incorporating the existing functionality.  ? Performed extensive analysis on the queries generated by crystal reports to optimize performance of the reports by adding indexes and partitions the tables.  ? Extensively worked with SSIS to import, export and transform the data between the linked servers.  ? Loading multi format data from various sources like flat-file, Excel, MS Access, Oracle etc. using SSIS and performing file system operation  ? Experience in creating complex SSIS packages using proper control and data flow elements  ? Developed screens using C# and ASP.Net server controls & doing form field validations server side validations using C# and ASP.Net validation controls.  ? Designed data assess layer using ADO.Net datasets & data adapters  ? Client side validations are done using JavaScript.  ? Used Windows Communication Foundation (WCF) methodology to implement the web services  ? Used Microsoft Team Foundation Server for the purpose of version Control and source code maintenance needs.    Environment: NET Framework 4.0/4.5, Web services, WCF, C#.NET, ASP.NET, ADO.NET, SQLServer 2005/2008, SSRS, SSIS, Crystal Reports, Team Foundation Server (TFS). Education Master's degree in Computer Applications in Computer Applications Nagarjuna University