.NET Developer .NET <span class="hl">Developer</span> AWS Certified , .Net & C# Developer Hoffman Estates, IL Work Experience .NET Developer CDK Global - Hoffman Estates, IL March 2019 to May 2019 Quote Project - Sales person requests a quote and Sales manager prepares a quote and sends it back. Different types of quotes can be produced such as Finance, Lease, Cash and One-pay-lease. Quote is a complex application as it has to take into consideration all the taxes and fees for different states of US. This app generates quotes based on the location of the dealer and customer.    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in grooming and sizing as part of agile methodology.  ? Coding for the requirements which includes changes at the application level using. NET Framework 4.7, C# and database level using MS SQL Server 2015 and PostgreSQL  ? Implemented the UI changes which are created in Angular using Visual studio code..  ? Writing unit test cases for the code using XUNIT.  ? Involved in deploying of the web applications in Bamboo.  ? Used GIT for repository, Confluence for project related documents, Team Foundation Server for code check-in and team collaboration. .Net Developer CDK Global - Hoffman Estates, IL March 2019 to May 2019 Tax Service is a web application which is created for E-Lead migration. This web application is used to get tax related information from the database I.e taxes, rates, states etc.  Responsibilities:  ? Involved in grooming and sizing as part of agile methodology.  ? Created GIT repository for the project and did the necessary configuration for the project.  ? Configured the build and test environment for the project in Bamboo.  ? Coding for the requirements which includes creating service and repository classes using. NET Framework 4.7, C# and at database level using PostgreSQL and Liquibase scripts.  ? Writing unit test cases for the code using XUNIT.  ? Created docker images and run the images into Docker container. .Net Software Developer Fiserv India Pvt. Ltd - Pune, Maharashtra January 2010 to January 2014 I have worked in Core Banking Unit providing solutions to the Retail Banking Sector. Aperio is the product with which I was associated. Aperio is a cross-channel customer interaction solution suite that enables customer relationship management (CRM), business process management (BPM) and enterprise application integration (EAI), customer analytics, campaign management and imaging to work in concert, pointing customers towards stronger sales and services. Aperio for Signature, integrates and automates processes, tracks customer interactions, and gives the capability to proactively make decisions about how to proceed with customer based on real time data. Worked for Bank of TESCO (UK).    Responsibilities:  ? Requirement gathering of my module, estimating the efforts and checking dependencies and integrity of my module with other modules of the application.  ? Analyzed the requirements and prepared the Functional Specification.  ? Coding, worked on designing, testing and production/on call support.  ? Handling technical client conference calls.  ? Conducting code review cycles for projects.  ? Technical discussions with Client Tech Team.  ? Troubleshooting all technical issues related to .Net, SQL server, and Aperio/Portrait tool.  ? Presenting a Live Demo of the developed app using Live Meeting.  ? Conduct training sessions for new joiners. .Net Software Developer Cybage Software Pvt. Ltd - Pune, Maharashtra February 2007 to January 2010 Responsibilities:  ? Coding application modules using. NET Framework 2.0, C#, .NET 2005, ASP.NET 2.0, MS SQL Server 2005/2008, Custom Controls, JavaScript, IIS 6.0, Team Foundation System 2005.  ? Worked on the implementation of SSRS reports and SSIS Packages for importing the data from Macro enabled Excel to SQL server 2008  ? Part of Architecture and Database design Team.  ? Creating new content and master pages.  ? Requirement gathering of my module, estimating the efforts and checking dependencies and integrity of my module with other modules of the application.  ? Handling technical client conference calls  ? Conducting code review cycles for projects.  ? Technical discussions with Client Tech Team.  ? Prepared Activity Diagrams for different modules.  ? Troubleshooting all technical issues related to .Net, SQL server, BI Tools SSIS, SSRS. Education Diploma in Advance in Computer CDAC - Mumbai, Maharashtra July 2006 to January 2007 B.Tech in Computers Science in Computers Kurukshetra University - Jind, Haryana August 2002 to June 2006 Skills C#, .Net, Angular, MVC, ASP, Javascript, WCF, WPF, SQL SERVER 2015, PostgresSQL, HTML, XML, JSON, Git, TFS, Web Services, Jquery Certifications/Licenses AWS Certified Developer - Associate (DVA) August 2019 to August 2022 Amazon Web Services (AWS)