Sr. Software Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Software Developer - ioMosaic Milford, NH Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Software Developer ioMosaic - Salem, NH May 2019 to Present https://www.iomosaic.com/    ioMosaic  Sr. Software Developer  (May, 2019 - Present)    ioMosaic is a leader in process safety consulting. They develop a few software solutions that are used both internally and sold as supplements to their consulting services. I work on the team developing the Process Safety Enterprise Platform (PSE) which is a website that offers project management.    ? Working in a Windows development environment  ? Developing the Process Safety Enterprise (PSE) Platform  ? C# and .NET development  ? Microsoft SQL Server development  ? Web Development with ASP.NET Web Forms and Bootstrap.css  ? Performance optimizations  ? Bug fixes and supporting customers  ? TFS is used for source control Sr. Software Developer IDEMIA - Billerica, MA November 2015 to May 2019 https://www.idemia.com/    IDEMIA | MorphoTrust  Sr. Software Developer  (Nov. 2015 - May, 2019)    IDEMIA is a global leader in identity software. They have numerous products and offerings centered around managing identities. The department I worked in was focused on modernizing DMVs from old mainframe systems to modern web platforms. I contributed by implementing new features, prototyping new designs, fixing bugs, and architecting new solutions.    ? Worked in a Windows development environment  ? Developed a modernized DMV software suite that included Driver360 and Vehicle360  ? Microsoft Dynamics CRM 2011-365 development  ? C# and .NET development  ? Microsoft SQL Server development  ? Supporting parallel operations and data migrations  ? Perform static analysis and security reviews of code  ? Implemented new features and resolved defects  ? Created a decoupled business layer framework using the factory, builder, and repository patterns  ? Involved in prototyping a new business rules engine  ? Prototyped solutions using ASP.NET MVC, Knockout.js and Bootstrap.css  ? Perforce was used for source control  ? Scaled Agile    Experience (Continued)    Oracle | Acme Packet Software Developer II Acme Packet - Bedford, MA January 2013 to November 2015 https://www.oracle.com/ Software Developer II January 2013 to November 2015 Acme Packet was a company that developed powerful media routers for the enterprise and service providers. Their Session Border Controllers (SBC) power the phone systems of Comcast, Verizon, AT&T, and other large corporations. I was in the sustaining group which largely fixed bugs and implemented customer specific features. Shortly after being hired they were acquired by Oracle. I was also a member of the security team, called a Security Point of Contact (SPOC), meaning I fixed and implemented security related features as needed.    ? Developed and maintained Session Border Controllers (SBC) embedded software  ? Worked in a Linux build environment utilizing the C, C++, Lua, and XML languages  ? Implemented new features and wrote functional specifications  ? Was responsible for resolving defects in the SBC software layer  ? Debugged crashes and memory leaks  ? Was responsible for TLS and OpenSSL portion of the code base  ? Worked with SIP as well as other protocols such as IP, TCP, UDP, MSRP, and SNMP  ? Was a member of the security group which worked on security related developments, defects, features, and resolutions.  ? Clearcase was used for source control  ? Participated in code-reviews Associate Software Development Engineer Exacom - Concord, NH January 2011 to January 2013 https://exacom.com/    Exacom  Associate Software Development Engineer  (Jan. 2011 - Jan. 2013)    Exacom is a small employee owned company in Concord, NH. At the time I worked there, they specialized in media recording software for public services and the Department of Defense. My main contributions included developing user interfaces that sat on top of their services using WPF and Silverlight.    ? Associate Software Development Engineer  ? Developed and maintained the Hindsight G2 Platform  ? Worked in a Windows environment utilizing the C, C++, Managed C++, C#, XML and SQL languages  ? Was a key member in the development of Exacom's next generation of user interfaces  ? Worked with Microsoft SQL Server extensively, designing, implementing and supporting databases  ? Silverlight web development, WPF application development, and WCF service development  ? Audio Analytics (Comparing text-based phrases for words in audio recordings)  ? Worked with SIP and VoIP technologies  ? Implemented new products and wrote functional specifications  ? Worked with and implemented MVVM, data binding, SOA, and modular development paradigms  ? Subversion was used for source control Education Bachelor of Science in (B.S.), Computer Information Technology Southern New Hampshire University 2012 to 2014 Certificate in Computer Engineering Technology: Advanced Programming NHTI-Concord's Community College - Concord, NH June 2007 to December 2010 Associate of Science in (A.S.), Animation and Graphic Game Programming New Hampshire Technical Institute 2007 to 2010 Skills Microsoft sql server, Sql server, Mysql, Sql, .net, Visual studio, C#, C++, Html, Javascript, Bootstrap, Silverlight, Wcf, Subversion, Xml, Asp, Css, Asp.net, Knockout Links https://www.linkedin.com/pub/david-royce/68/5aa/779 Certifications/Licenses Certified SAFe Pracitioner Scaled Agile, Inc., License 61365566-0404 April 2019 to April 2020 Java for Android Coursera, License KT5C8R8TQYU7 May 2017 to Present