Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer - SCM Garments Pvt Ltd Skilled software development professional bringing more than 3 years in software design, development and integration. Knowledgeable Software Developer skilled in data collection, analysis and management. Works well under pressure and consistently meets deadlines and targets while delivering high quality work. Senior Web Developer specializing in front end development. Successful programmer at managing teams, driving progress toward project milestones, quality assurance and on-time delivery. Work Experience Software Developer SCM Garments Pvt Ltd June 2014 to Present Tirupur, TN    • Modified existing software to correct errors, adapt to new hardware and improve performance.  • Implemented innovative systems for data collection, storage and management of customer orders.  • Evaluated multiple software solutions during early software architecture plotting and system migration planning stage.  • Implemented Search Engine Optimizations to improve search results and business flow.  • Built databases and table structures following n-tier architecture methodology for web applications.    Projects handled:    Knitting Application  Client: SCM Textile Processing Mills Tirupur.  Role: Analysis, Design, Coding  Environment: ASP.Net, SQL Server 2008  Description:  The goods inward (Goods Receive Note - GRN) and outward (Delivery Challan - DC) particulars or data can be handled using the web pages and can be stored at backend. The details can be viewed as a report in the different formats as according to the client requirement. It is workflow based internet web application model and design. There are different types of validations found in the architectural flow. There are number of events and properties of grid views are used in this application to handle the data effective. The different reports used in this application are shown in the grid view and are exported to excel formats.    ERP for Garments Manufacturing  Client: SCM Garments Pvt Ltd & Aathava Garments, Tirupur.  Role: Analysis, Design, Coding, Testing  Environment: ASP.Net, SQL Server 2008  Description:  This is a web application designed and developed on the concept of entity resource planning for the work flow followed in Garment manufacturing process. It is workflow based internet web application model and design. The data inserted to the SQL database tables by other software (related to this application) can be used in this application and the process will gets executed. This project designed in three tier architecture and the exception handlers' are utilized. It was tested under different test cases like Unit and Integration testing methodologies.    Godown Management  Client: SCM Garments Pvt Ltd, Tirupur.  Role: Analysis, Design, Coding, Testing  Environment: ASP.Net, SQL Server 2008  Description:  The goods inward (Goods Receive Note - GRN) and outward (Delivery Challan - DC) particulars or data can be handled using the web pages and can be stored at backend. The details can be viewed as a report in the different formats as according to the client requirement. It is workflow based internet web application model and design. There are different types of validations found in the architectural flow. There are number of events and properties of grid views are used in this application to handle the data effective. The different reports used in this application are shown in the grid view and are exported to excel formats Education B.Sc Park's College Additional Information SKILLS SET    Technical    Language(s): C#.net, VB.Net  Web Technologies: ASP.Net (Java Script, Crystal Reports)  RDBMS: MS SQL Server 2008  Database Connectivity: ADO.Net  Operating Systems: Windows XP / 7 / 8 /10    Functional    Project Planning and Coordination'    • Design and development of the workflow program.  • Design Proof of Concept (POC) for new projects and forward to implementation followed by client's IT team approval.  • An effective team player with strong communication, relationship management, analytical & co-ordination skills    Execution    • Involve in application development and Unit, Integration and System Testing. Validating the application with different methodologies and concepts. Debugging of the application.  • Involved in project documentation for each module of the application.  • Troubleshooting and debugging  • Innovative  • .Net development  • Fast learner  • Excellent attention to detail