Senior Software Developer Senior <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Software Developer - The Home Depot Smyrna, GA SOFTWARE DEVELOPER (JAVA/JEE)    Innovative systems and software developer with over 8 years of experience designing solutions in Java/Java EE, implementing code, and building effective interfaces using advanced frameworks. Demonstrated success analyzing current applications and determining needed upgrades and improvements. Adept at thorough code and systems testing prior to project launch, and troubleshooting/resolving issues after implementation. Effective verbal and written communicator, able to produce relevant technical documentation and team with colleagues to develop strategies that achieve goals.    CORE COMPETENCIES / TECHNICAL SKILLS    Software Project Development • Algorithm Design • System Analysis & Development   Front / Back End Software • UML Artifact Development • Use Cases • Sequence Diagrams  High Quality Code • Best Practices • Creative Solutions • Documentation • Troubleshooting & Testing  Collaborative Teamwork • Strategic Guidance • Effective Communication • Detailed Approach • Issue Resolution    Languages: Java 8 (Lambda, Streams), JEE, Ruby, Shell Script, JavaFX, JME, C, C++, PHP, Python, JSE, Haskell  Web: PrimeFaces, Ajax, JavaScript, EJB 3, JPA 2, CDI, ADF, Spring MVC  Databases: Mainly Oracle, MySQL, H2, MS-Access, MongoDB  Tools: IntelliJ, WebStorm, RubyMine, DataGrip, Eclipse, NetBeans, JCreator, Oracle JDeveloper and Matlab, Oracle Universal Content Management (UCM), Oracle Web Content Management (WCM), Oracle Information Rights Management (IRM), SVN, GitLab, Maven, HornetQ, JTest, JIRA, Oracle SQL Developer, Toad, Junit, mockito, power mock, SonarQube  Platforms: Windows 7 / 8.1 / 10, Linux Ubuntu, Fedora, CentOS, Mac OS X  Frameworks: Angular, NodeJS, Cucumber, JSF, Struts, Spring, Hibernate, Apache Camel, Spring Boot, Spring Cloud, Mongoose  Web/App Servers: Jboss, Glassfish, Tomcat, WebLogic  SDLC: Agile, Waterfall, OOP, Aspect Oriented Programming (AOP), Functional Programming  Design Patterns: Composite, Decorator, Façade, Proxy, Chain of Responsibility (COR), Command, Iterator, Mediator, Observer, State, Strategy, Template Method, Factory Method, Abstract Factory, Singelton, MVC  Other: Unified Modeling Language (UML), Relational Database Design, GraphQL Work Experience Senior Software Developer The Home Depot - Tampa, FL September 2018 to Present 1001 East Palm Ave, Tampa, FL 33605  The world's largest home improvement retailer.  Senior Software Developer  Design and implement functionalities for THD projects.  • Design and implement new feature requested by the client.  • Fixing defects to support the current functionalities.  • Working in Agile XP and pair programming environment.    Technologies:  • Languages: J2EE, SQL which is query language to execute functionality on the database , Ruby, TypeScript, Shell Script, Groovy;  • Web: Angular as the frontend framework for the application, NodeJS, Spring Boot, Spring cloud as a central source of config for our applications, Cucumber for Integration tests, SonarQube to insure the code quality;  • Databases: Casandra, Oracle, DB2;  • Design Patterns: Façade to create a single access point to provide all the functionality in our package or layer (for increasing the modularity and the decoupling), DAO to provide method for manipulating DB, DTO to transfer data within the application, Factory and Strategy (to provide dynamic way to change between different implementations for the interfaces), Proxy;  • Tools: Intellij which is an IDE used to increase the software development performance, SBT to manage project dependency and build, Git Bash as source control client to communicate with GIT Hub which is source control server which intelligently share the code between the team and provide solutions for the continues update to that code (Intellij has plugin for Git servers which will allow us to contact with the GIT server from the IDE), WebStorm which the same as Intellij but best suited for Angular and NodeJS, Ruby Mine, DataGrip as DB IDE, Docker;  • Platforms: Mac OSX as development environment operating system. Senior Software Developer KForce - PWC - Tampa, FL February 2018 to August 2018 Tampa, FL, USA • 02/2018-08/2018  1001 East Palm Ave, Tampa, FL 33605  PwC's professional services, including audit and assurance, tax and consulting, cover such areas as cybersecurity and privacy, human resources, deals and forensics.  Senior Software Developer  Design and implement functionalities for PWC projects.  • Design and implement new feature requested by the client.  • Fixing defects to support the current functionalities.  • Working in Agile Scrum environment.    Technologies:  • Languages: Scala, SQL which is query language to execute functionality on the database, N1QL which is query language to execute functionality on the Couchbase;  • Web: AngularJs as the frontend framework for the application;  • Databases: PostgreSQL, ArangoDB, Couchbase;  • Design Patterns: Façade to create a single access point to provide all the functionality in our package or layer (for increasing the modularity and the decoupling), DAO to provide method for manipulating DB, DTO to transfer data within the application, Factory and Strategy (to provide dynamic way to change between different implementations for the interfaces), Proxy;  • Tools: Intellij which is an IDE used to increase the software development performance, SBT to manage project dependency and build, Git Bash as source control client to communicate with GIT Hub which is source control server which intelligently share the code between the team and provide solutions for the continues update to that code (Intellij has plugin for Git servers which will allow us to contact with the GIT server from the IDE);  • Platforms: Mac OSX as development environment operating system. Software Developer KForce - Client Accesso - Lake Mary, FL June 2017 to January 2018 Lake Mary, FL, USA • 06/2017-01/2018  1001 East Palm Ave, Tampa, FL 33605  Premier technology solutions provider to leisure, entertainment and cultural markets.  Software Developer  Design and implement functionalities for Accesso products.  • Design and implement new feature requested by the client.  • Fixing defects to support the current functionalities.  • Working in Agile Scrum environment.    Technologies:  • Languages: Java 8, JPA (which is an ORM used to map the DB tables to java objects), SQL which is query language to execute functionality on the database;  • Databases: MySQL;  • Design Patterns: Façade to create a single access point to provide all the functionality in our package or layer (for increasing the modularity and the decoupling), DAO to provide method for manipulating DB, DTO to transfer data within the application, Factory and Strategy (to provide dynamic way to change betwwen different implementations for the interfaces), Proxy;  • Tools: Eclipse which is an IDE used to increase the software development performance, Apache Ant, Apache Ivy (both to manage project dependency and build), Tortoise GIT and SmartGit as source control client to communicate with GIT Hub which is source control server which intelligently share the code between the team and provide solutions for the continues update to that code (Eclipse has plugin for Git servers which will allow us to contact with the GIT server from the IDE), Junit as test framework, mockito which is used with Junit to provide mocking solution, power mock which extending mockito to provide more functionality;  • Platforms: Linux as Application server (which has the deployed applications and its log files) operating system, Windows as development environment operating system. Senior Software Developer AT&T - Morristown, NJ July 2016 to December 2017 25 Airport Road, Morristown, NJ 07960  Large Company deliver advanced mobile services, high-speed internet and smart solutions for people and businesses.  Senior Software Developer  Develop and implement APIs (as web services) to extend the functionality of the client framework.  • Design and implement Audit for all APIs as a library to gather information about all the requests and responses passing through the APIs.  • Design and implement common module for the common functionality for all APIs.    Technologies:  • Languages: Spring Framework which we used as context manager to manage the creation and injection of our resources, Spring AOP (Aspect Oriented Programming) which we used to help with the logging, REST Web Service which we used to expose our business functionalities to the front end, Apache Camel as framework manager to manage the routing between our services, PL/SQL which is query language to execute functionality on the database;  • Databases: Oracle;  • Design Patterns: Façade to create a single access point to provide all the functionality in our package or layer (for increasing the modularity and the decoupling), Proxy to extend the functionality of provided functionality without affecting the code which use it, Command, Iterator, Mediator, Strategy, Template Method, Singleton, MVC;  • Tools: Eclipse which is an IDE used to increase the software development performance, Maven to manage project dependency and build, Tortoise SVN as source control client to communicate with the source control server which intelligently share the code between the team and provide solutions for the continues update to that code, Tortoise GIT (GIT has the same target as SVN but different solution), SonarQube as code quality tool which is configured with coding rules then it will check the code against those rules (Eclipse has plugin for SonarQube which will allow it to automatically check the code while you are typing it in the IDE), Junit as test framework, mockito which is used with Junit to provide mocking solution, power mock which extending mockito to provide more functionality;  • Platforms: Windows as development environment operating system. Senior Software Developer IT CITADEL - Cairo, EG April 2013 to May 2015 Cairo, Egypt • 04/2013-05/2015  They are permanently closed now so I do not have address for them.  Software solution & security hardware tool development company for small businesses.  Senior Software Developer  Spearheaded entirely new business with 4 team members. Liaised with customers to study business requirements, convert to application system requirements, and ensure understanding of specifications. Calculated time and cost. Oversaw architecture/technical design for projects using UML. Designed customized solutions to meet client needs.  • Implemented major software system in 2 branches for mobile shop, and surveillance systems in each.  • Developed high quality outcomes using Java technologies and detailed coding, testing, and implementation.    Technologies:  • Languages: JEE (JPA, EJB) which is the Java Enterprise Edition frameworks which are used to develop enterprise solutions;  • Web: JSF (Java Server Faces) as front end framework to create the pages and its navigation rules amonge other things with PrimeFaces which is component library for the JSF framework;  • Databases: MySQL;  • Tools: Eclipse which is an IDE used to increase the software development performance, Maven to manage project dependency and build, JBoss Application Server to deploy our application on, Tomcat as servelet runner which we used with JBoss in the development environment because it is lighter and easier to use during development, Star UML as modeling tool to do our technical design diagrams (e.g.: Class diagram, sequence diagram, ), JIRA as SDLC manager which is used to help with managing the different stages of the Software Development Life Cycle;  • Platforms: Windows, Linux Ubuntu. (Both used as development environment operating system) Senior Software Developer MORPHO - Cairo, EG February 2012 to March 2013 Cairo, Egypt • 02/2012-03/2013  12, El-Bostan, Al Matar, Qism El-Nozha, Cairo Governorate, Egypt  Global leader in digital security & identity solutions, with branches worldwide.  Senior Software Developer  Led technical solution design. Collaborated with business analyst. Communicated with team lead and ensured alignment with architecture decisions & overall project goals. Performed unit testing. Developed/integrated modules.  • Effectively debugged applications by working on site with testing team during testing phase.  • Created queuing solution used project-wide after self-learning HornetQ.  • Managed old data during new system replacement, some modules with 700MB+ data, by developing Java app form prior Oracle 8 for each module to handle millions of records, including applying new rules.  • Promoted from Software Developer to Senior Software Developer role within 2 months of hire.    Technologies:  • Languages: JEE (JPA, EJB) which is the Java Enterprise Edition frameworks which are used to develop enterprise solutions;  • Web: JSF (Java Server Faces) as front end framework to create the pages and its navigation rules among other things with PrimeFaces which is component library for the JSF framework;  • Databases: Oracle;  • Tools: Eclipse which is an IDE used to increase the software development performance, Maven to manage project dependency and build, JBoss Application Server to deploy our application on, Star UML as modeling tool to do our technical design diagrams (e.g.: Class diagram, sequence diagram, ), JIRA as SDLC manager which is used to help with managing the different stages of the Software Development Life Cycle, HornetQ as queuing solution, Jtest as testing tool which help with both code quality and end to end test, Toad, Oracle SQL Developer (Both are SQL developer tool to develop and maintain SQLs), Junit as test framework;  • Platforms: Windows, Linux Ubuntu. (Both used as development environment operating system but mainly Linux) Senior Software Developer NTG CLARITY - Cairo, EG February 2011 to January 2012 Cairo, Egypt • 02/2011-01/2012  171 Al Harram Street , Bank Misr Building, 2nd Floor, Spatis, Al Harram, 12111  Giza  Egypt  Large company delivering network, IT, and infrastructure solutions to telecommunications service providers.  Senior Software Developer  Launched technical solutions for UML diagrams including class & sequence diagrams, in synchronization with project architecture decisions. Implemented/applied design patterns. Liaised with team lead to achieve desired outcomes.  • Overcame ADSL issue with dividing and remerging channel capacity by developing corrective code.  • Developed new Linux skills in development environment, and learned Maven, SVN, JIRA, and JBoss.  • Team recognized by senior leadership as best development team company wide at year-end.    Technologies: Languages:  • Languages: JEE (JPA, EJB) which is the Java Enterprise Edition frameworks which are used to develop enterprise solutions;  • Web: JSF (Java Server Faces) as front end framework to create the pages and its navigation rules amonge other things with PrimeFaces which is component library for the JSF framework;  • Databases: Oracle;    • Tools: Eclipse which is an IDE used to increase the software development performance, Maven to manage project dependency and build, JBoss Application Server to deploy our application on, Tomcat as servelet runner which we used with JBoss in the development environment because it is lighter and easier to use during development, Star UML as modeling tool to do our technical design diagrams (e.g.: Class diagram, sequence diagram, ), JIRA as SDLC manager which is used to help with managing the different stages of the Software Development Life Cycle, Toad, Oracle SQL Developer (Both are SQL developer tool to develop and maintain SQLs);  • Platforms: Windows, Linux Ubuntu. (Both used as development environment operating system but mainly Linux) Software Developer ASSET TECHNOLOGY GROUP - Cairo, EG July 2010 to 2011 Cairo, Egypt • 07-2010-01/2011  34B Al Moltaqa Al Araby District, beside B Auto for car trades, Sheraton Buildings, Heliopolis, Cairo, Egypt  International leader providing daily operation automation and transformation strategies.  Software Developer  Collaborated on Saudi Fund for Development (SFD) application, including backend using Oracle and building Java-based solutions. Worked on front end using JSF and ADF. Proactively learned UCM, IRM, and WCM.  • Chosen from day 1 to design demo for front end for customer review, completing assignment within 4 days.  • Ensured project alignment with desired outcomes through business process design and team communication.    Technologies: Languages: Java;  Web: JSF, ADF;  Databases: Oracle;  Tools: NetBeans, JDeveloper, Oracle SQL Developer;  Platforms: Windows, Oracle UCM, Oracle IRM, Oracle WCM. Java Developer Trainee INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY INSTITUTE - Cairo, EG September 2009 to July 2010 Cairo, Egypt • 09/2009-07/2010  28 Km by Cairo / Alexandria Desert Road - 6 October - Building B148, Egypt  Information Technology Institute is a pioneering national institute with a regional influence and international linkage providing a large pool of promising youth with world-class human capacity building programs and empirical learning approach to profoundly scale up the impact of the aspiring Egyptian youth in the ICT workplace.  Java Developer Trainee  Java Developer Trainee on the latest Java Web & Enterprise Technologies.  • Analyzed, designed and developed academic projects and educational lab tasks.  Technologies:  • Languages: J2SE, J2EE, RMI, EJP, JPA, Hibernate, SOA, Web Services, Spring Framework, ADF;  • Web Development: JSP, Servlet, Struts, JSF, Prime Faces, Spring MVC, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, JQuery;  • Databases: Oracle, MySQL;  • Tools: NetBeans, JDeveloper, Oracle SQL Developer;  • Platforms: Windows, Linux, Unix. Education Master of Science in Computer Science in distance education Maharishi University of Management - Fairfield, IA 2017 Master of Science in Information Technology in Information Technology University of Nottingham - Nottingham 2016 Post-Graduate Diploma in Information Technology/Web Development Information Technology Institute - Cairo, EG 2010 Bachelor of Science in Zoology in Zoology Ain Shams University - Cairo, EG 2008 Skills Eclipse, Ejb, Java, Hibernate, Javafx, Spring, Jboss, Jsf, Struts, Database, Database design, Mysql, Oracle, Relational database, Sql, Algorithm, Back end, C++, Content management, Cucumber, Javascript, Linux, Ruby (2 years), Scala (1 year), Docker (2 years), Jenkins (2 years), NodeJs (2 years), Angular (2 years), CSS, Git Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/mshahhat https://github.com/mshahhat