Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer - OfficeSupply.com Madison, WI I am seeking a progressive software company which can offer me a five to ten year intermediate career opportunity in programming and coding, with potential for a longer term commitment. I expect to gain experience to benefit my future career path and expand my understanding of programming and coding as a field of study. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Developer OfficeSupply.com - Columbus, WI January 2014 to Present Technical Summary  • Front-end Development: AJAX, BootStrap, CSS, HTML5, JS, PHP, React, Redux, REST APIs, SCSS  • Back-end Development: Bash, Node, PHP, Python, Symfony  • Database and ORM: Doctrine, MySQL  • Code Management: Jenkins, Git, GitHub  • File Formats: CSV, Excel, JSON, XML, YAML  • Methodology: Architecture, Documentation, Object Oriented Programming, Unit Testing  • Platforms: Linux (Debian, Ubuntu)  • Applications: Atom, Google Suite, NetBeans, Slack, Zapier  • AWS: API Gateway, CloudWatch, CloudSearch Code Pipeline, EC2, Lambda, IAM, SQS, SNS, S3  • Task Management: Pivotal Tracker, Trello  • Other: ReStructured Text    Team Management  • Developed at a senior level on a team of about 10 to release new updates weekly and complete major projects on a quarterly basis that contributed to 10% growth year over year.  • Handling deployment, meetings, and stakeholder communication with our team lead.  • Researching and implementing the REST API for our search and product pages that allowed caching of these pages for a speed increase of up to 500 ms.  • Leading project redesigning our checkout architecture by consolidating 5 different payment systems into 1 standardized checkout flow.  • Training new developers into the team environment and technologies, allowing new team members to submit pull requests in their first week.    Software Development  • Investigating and leading migration to Symfony Encore from Symfony Assetic, consolidating our various sources of CSS and JavaScript under the Encore umbrella.  • Designed process for our quarterly library updates to allow securely creating and updating a cache of the libraries for both PHP and Node in development, staging, and production.  • Building an abstract search architecture that allows simultaneous integration with our own custom solutions, BloomReach search, and Amazon CloudSearch.  • Advocating for code maintainability and unit testing which has improved our code quality and code coverage report numbers by over 100% in the past 2 years.    Third-Party Integrations  • Integrating with Braintree payments to give customers the power to save and manage payments through stored cards, Visa Checkout, and PayPal Checkout.  • Integrating with many Amazon Web Services services which allows moving most of our development process and expenses to the cloud.  • Working with async messaging via Amazon SQS, Amazon SNS, Gearman, and RabbitMQ library.  • Leading efforts on accessibility and WCAG standards resulting in increased company awareness. Software Developer Epic - Verona, WI August 2012 to November 2013 Technical Summary  • Back-end Development: Visual Basic  • Database and ORM: Caché  • Code Management: SVN  • Methodology: Documentation, Object Oriented Programming  • Platforms: Windows 7  • Applications: Microsoft Office Suite  • Task Management: Custom Story Management Tooling    Software Development  • Focus on UX and user workflows while developing new features.  • Develop fixes and enhancements for the Ambulatory setting.  • Work with a rotating team to manage the Histories feature of the application. Freelance Website Design The Homework Guy - Elk River, MN May 2011 to September 2012 Technical Summary  • Back-end Development: CSS, XHTML  • Code Management: FTP  • Platforms: Windows 7  • Applications: Adobe Illustrator, Dropbox, Microsoft Office Suite    Software Development  • Develop the layout and artwork for the website.  • Provide maintenance (updating content, fixing design flaws, etc.) on a monthly plan.  • Manage deployment of the site via FTP with hosting through GoDaddy. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science St. Cloud State University - Saint Cloud, MN September 2008 to May 2012 Skills PHP (5 years), MySQL (6 years), Javascript (6 years), Git (5 years), HTML 5 (6 years), CSS (6 years), SVN (1 year), Linux (5 years), AWS Cloud Services (3 years), Node.js (1 year), React (1 year), REST API (3 years), Unit Testing (6 years), Pair Programming (6 years), Symfony Framework (5 years), Pivotal Tracker (5 years), Bash (4 years), Redux (1 year), Bootstrap (3 years)