Senior UI/Web Application Developer Senior UI/Web Application <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior UI/Web Application Developer - AT&T El Segundo, CA • Over 6 years of IT experience in designing Single page applications using web technologies and tools like HTML (4/5), CSS (2/3), XML, Bootstrap, AJAX, TypeScript, JavaScript libraries and frameworks like jQuery, Angular 7/6/5/2, AngularJS, Node.js.  • Extensive experience in software development methodologies like Agile (SCRUM, Kanban), Waterfall.  • Experience in working with Angular 7/6/5/2 modules, services, templates, directives (custom and components), filters, services, routing and dependency injection to create a SPA.  • Hands on experience in TDD (Test Driven Development) approach and BDD (Behavior Driven Development) environment.  • Created prototypes before development based on static and approved design documents and wireframes.  • Utilized Gulp, Grunt, Npm, Webpack to run tasks and customize build process of Angular applications.  • Involved in creating unit test cases using Karma, Mocha, Jasmine and Protractor to perform end-to-end testing on Angular applications.  • Used version controlling tools like Git, SourceTree and SVN.  • Experience in using Rxjs library to implement Observable sequences and operators.  • Experience in working with APIs and Web Services.  • Experience in developing Angular app in Tizen OS platform (Samsung TVs).  • Developed applications using Chromecast SDK (both sender and receiver).  • Experience in developing web applications using Mean stack and creating responsive web pages using Twitter Bootstrap and CSS media queries and preprocessors like LESS and SASS.  • Ability to apply W3C web standards and 508 Guidelines with skills in achieving the cross-browser user experience for sake of long-term user retention and engagement.  • Good experience with automated build process and pipeline in Jenkins.  • Maintained code quality using quality gates and SonarQube.  • Developed cross-browser and cross-platform compatible solutions.  • Expert at creating functional specifications with visual design mockups in Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Illustrator and Adobe Flash.  • Experience in debugging using Chrome Developer Tools, Charles Proxy, Firebug, Postman, Curl.  • Experience with various IDEs such as Web Storm, Visual Studio code, Eclipse, Sublime.  • Experience in working on Mac, Windows and Linux Operating systems.  • Excellent interpersonal abilities, communication skills and maximum contribution to attain the team goal.  • Highly adept at promptly and thoroughly mastering new technologies with a keen awareness of new industry developments and the evolution of programming solutions. Work Experience Senior UI/Web Application Developer AT&T - El Segundo, CA November 2018 to Present Project: DirecTV Now Application on Web, Tizen and Chromecast platforms  Team Name: Beast Mode  Description: DirecTV now is a TV streaming service with 1.8 million subscribers owned by AT&T which provide customers to stream National and Local channels. DirecTV Now has two versions of the applications DTVN and Watch TV having different features based on subscription type.  Responsibilities:  • Worked in Scaled Agile Framework for the Enterprise (SAFe), including release planning, portfolio backlogs and other principles.  • Worked in BDD (Behavior Driven Development) and TDD (Test Driven Development) environments.  • Attended planning meetings in Agile project life cycle: Every PI (Program Increment) planning meeting in AT&T is to plan work for 5 sprints, every sprint planning meeting is to plan work for 2 weeks.  • Developed DirecTV now application in Web, Tizen, Chromecast platforms for Beast Mode Business Services.  • Integrated NewRelic, Conviva, Adobe Omniture, ComScore and Neilson reporting tools for Web and Tizen applications.  • Developed Authentication and authorization modules of DTVN and Watch TV applications.  • Modified video player according to the updates of VSTB SDK updates from Quickplay.  • Implemented Pause live functionality and keyframes for the video player using Quickplay VSTB SDK.  • Create and monitor KPI Dashboards for Beast Mode Business Services.  • Developed DirecTV Now Tizen Application in Angular 2 that runs on Samsung 2017, 2018 TVs.  • Upgraded Tizen application from Angular 2 to Angular 6.  • Developed Chromecast Receiver Application in native typescript for DirecTV Now so that users can cast DirecTV Now videos from any devices such as iOS, Android, Web.  • Developed DirecTV Now Web Application in Angular 5. Currently migrating to Angular 7.  • Separate global packages of the project as DFW Modules(monorepo) so that common code in packages can be used in Web, Tizen and Chromecast platforms. Using Lerna tool and Nexus repository manager for managing the repositories. Created few new packages for Rest API calls with Angular HTTP, Reporting, Pause live plugin and Progress bar plugin.  • Generated custom SVG sprites for all icons used in the app for performance optimization. Also used source map explorer and optimized all dependencies to reduce bundle size.  • Implemented Google casting functionality on Web platform. Deployed Chromecast application to Amazon s3 bucket. Also used Firebase to deploy and test locally.  • Involved in designing Jenkins CICD pipeline for Web, Tizen and Chromecast platforms.  • Involved with Tools team to set up quality gates for SonarQube.  • Developed DirecTV Now applications using prototypes in Zeplin.  • Involved in RC (Release Candidate) testing every sprint which includes data analytics testing.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, SCSS, JavaScript, TypeScript, Angular 7/6/5/2, Node.js, Bitbucket, Filezilla, Angular Material Components, Jasmine, Karma, Newrelic, Conviva, Adobe Omniture, Jenkins, SonarQube, Zeplin, Webstrom, Chrome Development tools, Postman, Charles proxy, Nexus Repository Manager, Augury, compodoc. Senior UI/Web Application Developer AT&T - El Segundo, CA March 2018 to October 2018 Senior Front-End Web Developer AT&T - El Segundo, CA April 2017 to February 2018 Project: Rogers Anyplace TV  Description: Rogers is Canada's largest wireless service provider. Rogers Anyplace TV is a web application for users to watch live and VOD content of channels, TV series and movies. Users can also record content on to the set-top box and can access it from anywhere in Canada. Anyplace TV is designed in English and French languages.  Responsibilities:  • Created custom build configurations for development and production environments.  • Implement UI and responsive web designing using CSS preprocessors SCSS based on InVision prototypes.  • Integrate polyfills for IE 11 and Edge for playback.  • Configure NPM live server for development and also deployed CLI generated bundle files to Rogers internal server.  • Integrate NewRelic reporting APM with browser instrumentation for the application for analytics and helped support team to understand metrics. Also created custom KPI dashboards with graphs and charts for clients to analyze the usage of the application.  • Implement VSTB SDK plugins for video player with cross browser compatibility and handled all playback errors.  • Design Guide page grid for users to see current On Now and future 7 days of programs on all channels from Rogers.  • Implement French language localization for the application.  • Integrate closed captions for video player for all browsers and designed custom styles for cues.  • Develop Set-top box selection functionality so that users can select from list of STB's and watch corresponding playback content.  • Resolve login issues and data display issues with debugging tools and reported to QA team.  • Deploy several mid-sprint builds and release builds to server team and deployment team.  Environment: HTML5, SCSS, JavaScript, Typescript, Angular 2, Node.js, RxJS Library, Bitbucket, Filezilla, JIRA, Jasmine, NewRelic, Webstrom, Chrome Development tools, Charles proxy, InVision. National Football League Sunday Ticket 2018 to 2018 Team Name: Chargers and Rams  Description: DirecTV is a TV streaming service with 1.8 million subscribers owned by AT&T which provide customers to stream National and Local channels. DirecTV packages includes NFL Sunday Ticket application which stream every live out-of-market NFL game, every Sunday. NFL Sunday Ticket is an out-of-market sports package that broadcasts National Football League (NFL) regular season games. It carries all regional Sunday afternoon games produced by Fox and CBS. The current system is developed completely in Flash. The current project is aimed to re-write the entire platform in HTML5, CSS and Angular 5 as the latest browsers are withdrawing support for the flash.  Responsibilities:  • Develop Web application for NFL Sunday Ticket Games from scratch in Angular 5. (Previously in Action Script).  • Integrate Chromecast sender SDK in NFL Web application so that users can directly cast to Chromecast device from Web application.  • Integrate Adobe Omniture and Conviva Reporting tools to track all kind of events such as Playback Errors and concurrent views.  • While in Chargers Team, implement login flow using OAuth 2.0 protocol to access tGaurd AT&T API.  • While in Rams Team, integrate HTML5 Video player supporting both Live and VOD(Video-on-Demand) in mp4 and hls formats. Live games were in mp4 format and VOD (Highlights and Shortcuts) were in hls format.  • Involve in production support for Preseason NFL games and fixed on call issues with production data.  • Develop Highlights, Shortcuts, Stats, My Players and Settings pages with animations.  • Generate SSL certificates for development as application had CORS issues while accessing tGaurd SDK.  • Implemented Consent flow for NFL web app.  • Used Angular animations for sliding in All the tabs in the side bar and game chips in the top drawer.  • Integrate PrimeNG UI components in NFL applications and customized widgets and other components.  • Integrate RxJS-based Angular application message bus ng-radio for global communication throughout the components in the application.  • Implement picture perfect UI which are referenced in Zeplin space.  • Implement Angular Reactive forms for fantasy sign in page.  • Implement ng-packagr and created packages NFL-Services for Rest API calls and Media Player Library for video player shared services.  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, SCSS, JavaScript, Typescript, Angular 5, Node.js, Chromecast Sender SDK, RxJS Library, Bitbucket, JIRA, Jasmine, Karma Task Runner, Conviva, Omniture, Webstrom, Chrome Development tools, Charles proxy, PrimeNG, Zeplin, ng-packagr, OAuth 2.0 protocol, Quickplay VSTB video player SDK. UI Front-end Developer FedEx - Dallas, TX January 2016 to March 2017 Project: Fedex Internal Website  Description: Print Online FedEx Office is used to conveniently design, print and ship documents anytime, anywhere from different types of available print products such as Custom documents, Prints & Posters, Presenta-tions, Banners, Signs etc. Print Online does have retail, corporate users in both US and Canada.  Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed dynamic web pages using HTML5, XHTML, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, XML and Ajax based on wireframes, prototypes and mockups.  • Created UML diagrams based on system requirements and business requirements.  • Responsible for creation of HTML5 pages which are cross-browser compatible according to W3C standards resembling design mockups using CSS3 and bootstrap.  • Used Node.js, Angular and MVC Frameworks to develop web application.  • Used jQuery library functions for client-side logical implementation.  • Used Angular 2 services for dependency injection and worked with Angular routers to establish routing between HTML views.  • Used Angular Http client for server communication through Restful API methods.  • Worked in Agile environment and participated in multiple scrum meetings to discuss plans on current sprint cycles.  • Experience in writing unit test cases in Karma for Angular filters and controllers following Test Driven Development.  • Performed cross browser compatibility checking and solving issues using unit testing and system integration testing.  • Involved in performing continuous integration and deployment using Jenkins.  Environment: HTML5, JSP, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, Angular 2, Node.js, Git, JIRA, Karma, Jasmine, Jenkins, Eclipse, D3.js. Front End Developer MedIntelli Inc - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2012 to April 2014 India  Project: PHR (Patient Health Records)  Team Name: MedIntelli Product Development Team  Description: MedIntelli is one of the leading EMR (Electronic medical record) solution provider where patients have full access to their records from the portal. MedIntelli gives the complete end to end solution starting from appointment schedule to EMR to all the physicians.  Responsibilities:  • Analyzed the Architecture of Business Services features pertaining to various modules of MedIntelli EMR (Electronic Medical Record) Product  • Responsible for the overall layout design, color scheme of the web site using HTML5, XHTML and CSS3 and Responsible for creating detailed wire frames and process flows for Physician Quality Reporting System (PQRS) on Electronic Health Record (EHR).  • Worked on Twitter Bootstrap to create Responsive Web Design.  • Developed cross-browser/platform HTML, CSS, and JavaScript to match design specs for complex page layouts while adhering to code standards.  • Implemented Angular bootstrap directives like accordion, modal, popover, tooltip.  • Developed Front-end Web pages for Doctor portal, Nurse portal, Patient portal, Drug Usage, and Health Administration modules of MedIntelli product using the ANGULAR framework and modern development tool kits like NODE, NPM, and Webpack.  • Performed Regression testing of MedIntelli Web application and write unit tests in JASMINE framework and KARMA Test Runner.  • Develop cross-browser/platform application to match design specifications for complex page layouts around ePharmacy module such as Clinical Quality Measures (CQMs) for healthcare services while adhering to RWD (Responsive Web Design) and W3C code standards.    Environment: HTML, CSS, Twitter Bootstrap, JavaScript, AngularJS, Node.js, Ajax, JIRA, Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Illustrator, Jenkins. Education California State University Internal Website May 2015 to December 2015 Skills Visual studio, Firebase, Git, Html, Javascript, Bootstrap, Node.js, Typescript, Python, Reporting tools, Svn, Xml, Angularjs, Tizen, Jira, Ajax, Css, Dreamweaver, Eclipse, Java Additional Information Technical Skills  Programming languages C, Java, Python.  JavaScript Frameworks and Libraries Angular 7/6/5/2, AngularJS, JQuery, Node.js  Web Technologies HTML, CSS, JavaScript, TypeScript, XML, Bootstrap, AJAX, Grunt, Gulp.  Databases MySQL, PL/SQL, Mongo DB, Firebase.  Version control and tracking tools JIRA, SVN, Bitbucket, GIT.  IDEs/Editors Web Strom, Eclipse IDE, Net Beans IDE, Adobe Dreamweaver, Brackets, Visual Studio Code, IntelliJ, Sublime Text 2/3.  Operating systems Windows 7/8/10, MAC OS X, Linux.  Debugging Tools Charles, Firebug, Chrome Developer tools, Postman.  Design spaces InVision, Zeplin.  Reporting Tools NewRelic, Adobe Omniture, Conviva, Neilson, Comscore  Platforms Web, Tizen, Chromecast