Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer - Broadleaf - Inc Essex, MD Work Experience Software Developer Broadleaf - Inc - Aberdeen Proving Ground, MD April 2019 to Present • Active Secret Clearance.  • Provided leadership and mentoring to team of engineers. Selected as Interim Acting Manager   during absence of manager and successfully kept all projects on schedule during this period.  • Work with analysts to understand their analytic or interface requirements.  • Develop tools such as Jira and interfaces such as within Java.  • Design, develop, and test operating systems-level software, compilers, and network distribution   software applications.  • Set operational specifications and formulate and analyze software requirements.  • Design embedded systems software using Java for GPS and mapping software. Software Engineer Mantech - Aberdeen Proving Ground, MD April 2015 to April 2019 • Provided leadership and mentoring to team of engineers. Selected as Interim Acting Manager   during absence of manager and successfully kept all projects on schedule during this period.  • Participates in the Agile development process and track and report out sprint progress.  • Establishes and maintains consistency of the product's performance, functional, and physical   attributes with its requirements, design, and operational information throughout its life.  • Codes, Tests, and maintains the software/scripts used to implement fixes and commercial software   upgrades in a tactical communications system.  • Interfaced between the validation and development teams ensuring effective communication.  • Mapped tests to requirements ensuring full traceability.  • Introduces methodologies and best practices that enhances product definition, releases processes   and customization of applications to user needs. Software Engineer/Administrator STS Technical Services - Aberdeen Proving Ground, MD February 2011 to April 2015 • Provided vital role in the interpretation, organization, and disbursement of testing data.  • Provided technical support in the implementation, analysis, revision, and maintenance of human   resources and other applicable automated systems.  • Created Access databases, forms, tables and queries as needed.  • Codes, Tests, and maintains the software/scripts used to implement fixes and commercial software   upgrades in a tactical communications system.  • Interfaced between the validation and development teams ensuring effective communication. Education Computer Science Engineer University of Maryland Baltimore County - Baltimore, MD September 2000 to May 2001 BS in Computer Science in Computer Science Catonsville Community College September 1997 to May 1999 Skills Javascript (2 years), Java (3 years), Visual Basic (8 years), VBScript (8 years), C+ (2 years), C# (2 years), Git