Software Engineer <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer East Meadow, NY Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Engineer SUMMITWORKS TECHNOLOGIES INC - New York, NY July 2015 to Present Involved in the project life cycle including design, development and implementation and verification and validation (SDLC).  Used UML Rational Rose to develop Use-case, Class and Object diagrams for OOA/OOD techniques.   Extensively used OOP concepts in overall design and development of the system.   Utilized JavaScript Chart.Js library to display graphical representation of data.   Developed modules for patients demographic with CRUD capabilities, and implemented search and filtering of data.  Designed Django URLs routes to connect to API services, as well as Models and Views to handle the data.   Implemented Django Authentication for controlling the access to the API, using token verification.  Developed REST API to perform Get and Post methods to obtain and send data to and from backend, using a MySQL database.  Responsible for parsing JSON data to and from the server for presentation & storage purposes in the project.  Involved in designing and deploying applications utilizing AWS stacks like EC2, Route53, S3, RDS, SNS, SQS, IAM. Focusing on high-availability, fault tolerance, and auto scaling in AWS Cloud Formation.  Implemented Angular component router for navigation and the services to connect the web application to back-end APIs.  Worked on Angular material design for sorting, filtering, based on Range of the data with auto complete features.  Implemented HTTP requests using Rxjs Observable library to handle multiple values over time.  Followed Agile methodology to provide/take feedback on the features, suggest/implement optimal solutions, and tailor application.  Used JIRA to keep track of bugs to reduce downtime, increase productivity, and Communication. Software Developer Corpoelec - Barquisimeto, Lara May 2014 to June 2015 Involved in all phases of SDLC including Requirements Gathering, Development, Design, Analysis, testing and deployment of the project.  Developed various Models with complex relationships and multiple foreign keys, as well as Views and Templates implemented on the project to manage and display the data, and connected to a MySQL database.   Implemented Django Session with Django Authentication system to handle both authentication and authorization.  Developed Django forms applications to retrieve data from users and saved them into database for analysis purposes.   Used Django ORM to implement CRUD operations and database access.  Used HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery and Bootstrap for dynamic functionality of the system for the front-end modules.   Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the application.  Installed/configured/maintained Apache servers.  Made use of Git source control to track progress and facilitate simultaneous development. Education Bachelor's in Electronic Computer Engineering Universidad Yacambu - Lara August 2002 to February 2008 Skills Php (1 year), HTML (5 years), CSS3 (5 years), Javascript (5 years), SQL (5 years), Python (5 years), angular (2 years), django (5 years), JIRA (3 years), Agile (3 years), JSON (5 years) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/jorge-rodriguez-ba4a42165/