Golang Developer Golang <span class="hl">Developer</span> Golang Developer - Capital One Work Experience Golang Developer Capital One - Richmond, VA July 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Used Go Programming Language (Golang) and Scala in the development of the application.  • Developed backup and recovery engine for VM backup/recovery using VMware vSphere APIs, Golang programming language and RabbitMQ Message bus (communication interface).  • Experience using Restful to push configure to devices with Java and Erlang.  • Created PDF reports using Golang and XML documents to send it to all customers at the end of month with international language support.  • Developed front end using Bootstrap.js, Angular.js, Node.js, D3.js, Backbone.js, where back end is JAX-RS (Jersey) REST webservice.  • Developed Golang software to handle concurrent data collection and processing with goroutines and channels for a Wi-Fi device.  • Achieved concurrent transactions via Goroutines multi-threads.  • Implemented Java and J2EE Design Pattern such as Command, State, Template, Composite, Strategy and Observer.  • Worked with Go Web Toolkit, Microservices Toolkit, Go-kit Web Service and Cassandra dB Cloud PostgreSQL Server on the server stack.  • Developed Microservices to utilize Go language, REST web services in the client's environment.  • Also worked on concurrency: goroutines and channels for library support. Extensively worked with godoc.  • Worked with ORM's like Equalize and GORM to perform DB operations using Node and Golang respectively.  • Created stage timeline in Web UI client using JavaScript and React and implemented stage deletion in CLI using Golang. Used Go to run the Docker Command Line Interface tools.  • Worked on Setting up scalability for application servers using command line interface (CLI) and administering DNS system in AWS.  • Optimized the Go code using goroutines. Experience building Listener on Rabbit MQ erlang.  • Implementing the routing technique in Golang using Gorilla mux as request router and dispatcher for matching incoming requests to their respective handler  • Developed dynamic web pages using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AngularJS, NodeJS, Bootstrap, LESS and bootstrap.  • Developed Single Page Applications (SPA) using React, ES6, and typescript, Web Pack, Grunt and Redux.  • Developed an application security infrastructure based on JSON web token (JWT) and Microsoft Azure's gateway authentication mechanism.  • Integrated Single Sign On (SSO) for multiple applications in the portal using SAML and JWT.  • Designed back-end system Logging Framework using Play Framework, Apache Kafka and Elasticsearch.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Developed a Process Pool Management system in OTP for controlling Erlang process load on systems using concurrent threads.  • Designed, developed extensive additions to existing Struts, Java, J2EE Web Application utilizing Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) techniques.  • Worked with database development in both SQL (MSSQL, PostgreSQL/PL/SQL, MySQL) and NoSQL (MongoDB).  • Used Apache CXF as the Web Services framework to implement the REST APIs involved.  • Golang and Java were used as a backend REST service while AngularJS was used for the user interface.  • Developed Golang based web services on AWS and Google App Engine.  • Used Goland IDE for development. Used GitHub and Jenkins for the continuous integration and deployment.  • Instantiated Agile/Scrum methods to create a development rigor, and Project management.  • Created automated test scripts for web applications with Jasmine and Selenium testing module.  • Wrote unit tests using Jest and Enzyme for test-driven development.  • Created unit test cases and mocked complex classes using JUnit, Mockito, and Power Mock.  • Setup and build AWS infrastructure various resources VPC, EC2, S3, IAM, EBS, Google Cloud, Security Group, Auto Scaling, and RDS in Cloud Formation JSON templates.  • Prepared Unit test case using JUnit and used Maven for continuous integration testing.  • Designed and developed user interfaces using JSP, HTML, JSON, jQuery and CSS.  • Used Struts Model-View-Controller approach to help design new features and fix Jira bugs and request.  • Worked with sites hosted on Heroku & AWS, using a variety of technologies such as Varnish, Apache, Nginx.  • Utilized GitHub for repository code management and Zoom and Slack for team peering purposes for co-work assignments.  • Created and managed a Docker deployment pipeline for custom application images in the cloud using Jenkins.  • Designed and implemented Container orchestration systems with Docker Swarm and Kubernetes  • Developed and Debugged Golang plugins for Go CD pipelines.    Technologies Used: GO, Golang, Goroutine, Microservices, Channels, Gokit, ORM GORM, cli, Gorilla Mux, go-hystrix , godoc, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, Angular. Golang Developer Metra Chicago IL - Chicago, IL June 2016 to July 2017 Responsibilities:  • Enhanced, fixed functional and performance related bugs in core product written in GO (Golang).  • Experience writing data APIs and multi-server applications to meet product needs in erlang.  • Created RPC-based service for reading large volume of data from PostgreSQL using GO(Golang).  • Developed a Process Pool Management system in OTP for controlling Erlang process load on systems using concurrent threads.  • Programmed an IRC bot in Golang that is concurrent using goroutines  • Designed and created a Goroutine to automatically upgrade appliance software.  • Accelerated the birth of new generation by 30% by using multi-threaded Goroutines during the crossover process.  • Experience in pairing with developers to stay actively involved. Main technology stacks include C# and Erlang.  • Used Golang to create backend servers.  • Responsible for providing leadership in a trade-study exploring alternate software ecosystems including Erlang/OTP, Python plus messaging frameworks, and other scalable alternatives.  • Providing scalable solutions via erlang, Golang, AWS, protocol buffers and supervision trees.  • Developed REST Microservices which are like API's used for Home Automation. They also keep the data in synchronization between two database services.  • Implemented query functionality while mapping front end code to backend by a priority of native SQL, HQL, GORM Queries. Have involved in implementing DAO layer using GORM api. Used godoc while development.  • Enhanced the infrastructure and performance of the interactive and programmatic management interfaces with CLI and RESTful API.  • Deployed and monitored scalable infrastructure on Amazon Web Services (AWS) and used AWS CLI to control various AWS services over SHELL/Bash.  • Created reusable ReactJS components and implemented Redux Pattern into the solution to maintain the stable and always updated Application state.  • Designed, developed and deployed an authentication and control system based on JSON web token (JWT).  • Developed Go API with the revel framework with Ginkgo development at the forefront driving the Test-Driven Development process.  • Architecting the Infrastructure on Google cloud platform using various GCP Services.  • Implementing new projects builds framework using Jenkins & Maven as build framework tools.  • Designed the web client by using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX and DOJO with JSON.  • Executed the test steps defined in Test Cases manually and reporting the bugs in JIRA.  • Developed frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework with GIT.  • Implemented the application using the concrete principles laid down by several Java/J2EE Design patterns.  • Worked in RDBMS implementation using SOAP, SQL, PL/SQL, MySQL on Oracle database.  • Implemented the use of AWS NoSQL DB DynamoDB to dump data in JSON format.  • Responsible for maintaining and expanding our AWS infrastructure using AWS EC2, manage documents in S3, providing IAM access to S3 buckets.  • Installed and configured the development environment using Windows NT and LINUX operating systems.  • Implemented Docker based Continues Integration and Deployment framework.  • Configured Git and Bitbucket servers as the software version control tools.  • Used zoom for daily standup calls, team meetings, Sprint planning and Sprint Review.  • Unit tested the code with Jasmine tests and manages the code with SVN.  • Extensively Used Eclipse IDE and IntelliJ for designing, coding and developing applications.  • Documented the progress of the daily stand-ups with the Atlassian stack (JIRA, Confluence, HipChat).    Technologies Used: GO, Golang, Goroutine, Microservices, Channels, Gokit, ORM GORM, cli, Gorilla Mux, godoc, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, Angular, React, Redux, Bootstrap, Es6, Typescript, JSON web token, SSO/SAML, Elasticsearch. Software Developer Freedom Mortgage Corp - Dallas, TX February 2014 to May 2016 Responsibilities:  • Involved in requirement analysis, design, coding and unit testing.  • Created JKS file to interact with third party application using certificate and public key during SSO implementation.  • Golang back-end development for Microservices.  • Building Microservices using Golang, JSON, Docker, MongoDB.  • Implemented code to generate SAML response to interact with third party application successfully.  • Used SSO and SAML token creation and authenticate to the external system from ADE application.  • Used Testing tools Like Ginkgo and Go mega framework.  • Built website and database system for in house, programmed in Python through Django streamline framework.  • Improved test automation efficiency and execution through development of a distributed resource management system written in Erlang.  • Designed and developed new features for application using Java, J2ee, JSP, Servlets, Struts, Java, EJB, JDBC, HTML, JSTL, and XSL.  • Designed and implemented database structure in MySQL/ PL/SQL Server.  • Developed SQL queries. Actively worked on stored procedures.  • Developed Rest architecture-based web services to facilitate communication between client and servers.  • Created all the services to work with the various entities provided and rectified the services using REST APIs.  • Involved in creation of automation framework using selenium and testing.  • Used JIRA & Confluence were the tools used to keep things in check.  • Designed layouts on the front-end and developed web pages responsive for smart desktops using JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap and jQuery.    Technologies Used GO, Golang, Microservices, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, Angular, Bootstrap, JSON web token, SSO/SAML, Python, Erlang, Java, Spring, Hibernate, MySQL, PL/SQL, Rest, Soap, Eclipse, Git, SVN, Junit, Selenium, Agile, AWS EC2, S3, Maven, JSON, XML, Jira, Linux, hip chat, Jenkins. Software Developer Sanofi - Seattle, WA July 2012 to January 2014 Responsibilities:  • Worked on custom panels, blocks, content types, and views to customize the look of the website.  • Provided external connectivity (Apigee/Akamai) to LLE (Lower level environment/release environments)  • Responsible for layout design, implementation, using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap and AngularJS.  • Used JSON web token (JWT) based authentication along with authentication guards to set the application up.  • Used SOAP Technology for exchanging the XML application using HTTP.  • Created functional automation scripts using open source tools selenium (selenium RC, Grid).  • Designed the flow of the project using Waterfall Model.  • Used various Amazon Web Services (AWS) Components like EC2 for virtual servers and S3.  • Proficient use of developing applications using NetBeans and ANT.  • Tracked software issues and project progress enterprise-wide using Jira.  • Responsible for the total, efficient and profitable operations of a CVS.  • Written Unit testing and Test suites using JUnit framework for testing the application.  • Used SVN version controller to manage code versions.  • Developed test cases and performed unit testing using JUnit.  • Involved in writing Unix Shell Script for performing automated tasks.  • Designed and maintained databases using Python and developed Python based API (RESTful).  • Researched, evaluated and worked with basics of functional programming languages such as Go, Erlang.  • Used Restful to push configure to devices with Java and Erlang. Developed application using Java platform.  • Prepared statements are used for communication with MySQL database.  • Implemented logging functionality using log4j and developed SQL, Oracle queries and stored procedures  Technologies Used: JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, Angular, Bootstrap, JSON web token, SSO/SAML, Python, Java, Spring, Struts, MySQL, SQL, Rest, Soap, CVS, SVN, Selenium, Waterfall, AWS EC2, S3, Ant, XML, Jira, Unix. Education Bachelor's Certifications/Licenses Driver's License