Software Engineer <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Software Engineer - Veros Real Estate Solutions Rancho Santa Margarita, CA • 11+ years of work experience in Developing/Architecting highly scalable and extensible service oriented applications using WCF, Restful Services, Microservices, WPF, Silverlight, ASP.NET, C#, and SQL Server.  • Experience in creating applications based on volatility based decomposition of the components.  • Extensive experience in distributed systems, SOA, Object Oriented Analysis and Design Concepts and Test Driven Development.  • Expertise in Relational Database Design, and writing Stored Procedures, Views.  • Involved in all Phases of Software Development Life Cycle including Requirements Analysis, Design, Development, Integration & Testing, Implementation and Maintenance.  • Expertise in security concepts such as Symmetric and Asymmetric key encryption, Hashing techniques and Certificates to secure multiple layers of an application.  • Experience in using IDE's Visual Studio 2017/2015/2013/2012, source control tools TFS, SVN  • Strong Analytical and Problem Solving Skills, Excellent Trouble-shooter, diligent, can work independently or as part of a team, and can easily adapt to a new environment and work under pressure in a fast-paced environment.  • Proficient in data structures and algorithms, system design and architecture.  • Experience with interfacing with external vendors for application integration.  • Experience in working in an Agile/Scrum environment.  • Experience in writing unit tests and characterization tests.  TECHNICAL ENVIRONMENT  Languages C#, XAML, XML, HTML, CSS LINQ, SQL, Assembly Lang(x86 platform),and UML  Microsoft Tech. Azure, WCF, WPF, Silverlight, ASP.Net, MS Unit Tests, MSMQ, Application Insights  Design Patterns  Singleton, Observer, MVVM, Façade, Proxy, Command, Pub-Sub, Competing Consumers, External Configuration Store, Retry, Circuit breaker, Sharding    Frameworks-and Other technologies  .Net Framework (4.6/4.5/4.0/3.5/2.0/1.1), Entity Framework, MVVM Light, Enterprise Library, RabbitMQ, Dependency Injection, Unity, Autofac    DBMS SQL Server 2014/2012/ 2008 R2, 2008/2005/2000, Oracle 11g, MS Access Work Experience Software Engineer Veros Real Estate Solutions - Santa Ana, CA November 2015 to Present • Lead a team of developers on a project that utilized Microsoft Azure Application Insights to support DevOps operations for company products.  • Worked on integrating Pathway service with Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to submit UCD (Uniform Closing Dataset) data by creating a scalable and high performant distributed solution.  • Worked on the EAD (Electronic Appraisal Delivery) solution - which delivers Appraisals to the Federal Housing Administration (FHA), including fixing bugs, diagnosing production problems.  • Fixed a memory leak in the address verification service (AVS) by analyzing memory usage using ANTS Memory profiler, this improved the performance of the service and helped IT by not needing to do weekly restarts of the service.  • Developed solutions to test internal services, including load testing, utilizing TPL.  • Participated in transitioning Uniform Collateral Data Portal (UCDP) and EAD's authentication layer from IBM's Tim/Tam to Sim/Sam. Included writing extensive unit tests and characterization tests to ensure the application functionality didn't change after the switch.  • Used test driven development (TDD) and Dependency Injection (DI) methodologies to create new solutions. Also, created fake services to test code before going live with the real services.  • Mainly worked on technologies such as C#. Net, WCF, WPF, ASP.NET, Application Insights, Oracle, Linq Software Engineer CompuGroup Medical - Irvine, CA April 2012 to October 2015 • Advised the company about which architecture to choose for new software and reviewed existing architectures and optimized them to be scalable and perform better.  • Created a distributed solution to do electronic faxes for medical practices and successfully deployed it to the production environment. This was a scalable and extensible service oriented architecture that utilized queues, which allowed the components to scale individually without limits based on the load.  • Made an existing non-scalable application that created PDF documents for patients scalable by introducing a queued architecture, this allowed the company to grow their customer base easily and increase profits.  • Interfaced with external vendors to integrate application in order to retrieve electronic lab results (Quest, Labcorp) and clinical decision support (Alere Analytics).  • Helped architect/implement many services/modules and was instrumental in the company achieving the Meaningful use stage 2 certification.  • Optimized existing applications to use the Task Parallel library where it can be used and increased performance.  • Perform code reviews and architecture reviews for new modules of applications.  • Handle any .Net related deployments to Production and QA environments.  • Mainly worked on technologies such as C# .Net, WCF, Silverlight, WPF, SQL Server, MSMQ, Linq, T-SQL Software Engineer Nowcom Corporation - Los Angeles, CA December 2011 to April 2012 • Architected and implemented an internal tool that lets users diagnose problems with Carmax loan submissions to Westlake Financials.  • Worked on fixing bugs and adding new features on Dealercenter - Nowcom's dealer management system  • Mainly worked on technologies such as C# .Net, WCF, Silverlight, WPF, SQL Server, MSMQ, Linq, T-SQL Software Engineer Alteer/Visionary Healthware - Irvine, CA 2010 to December 2011 Alteer Inc was acquired by Visionary Healthware (VHW) and VHW was acquired by CGM)  • Increased the successful processing of Lab Results web service from 80% to 99.9% through an open XML solution to insert data to the DB.  • Architected and implemented the Lab Results tracking portal which helped support in diagnosing problems with Lab Results processing efficiently, thereby reducing operational costs and time.  • Implemented part of the caching layer for Alteer Office's SOAP module which improved performance of the application drastically.  • Along with the senior engineer implemented a document routing service to be used throughout the enterprise to route patient documents to the correct medical practice. Before this service every other application had its own mechanism of routing documents to the relevant practice.  • Implemented several modules that helped the company acquire Meaningful Use and CCHIT certifications for its Alteer Office software.  • Along with the senior engineer introduced proper instrumentation of code so that bugs are found effortlessly when an error occurs in a program.  • Found places in programs that are running too slowly (through proper instrumentation of code) and fixed them to run faster.  • Proposed and implemented decoupled applications and built easily maintainable SOA software.  • Introduced code reviews in the company to maintain the quality of code.  • Mainly worked on technologies such as C# .Net, WCF, Silverlight, SQL Server, MSMQ, Linq, T-SQL, ADO.NET Software Developer Emerald Systems - Danbury, WI July 2005 to July 2006 • Normalized the Sentinel JMS database to reduce data anomalies that lead to data integrity issues.  • Assisted in architecting the Sentinel Jail Management System (JMS) in .net 2.0 which was earlier done in legacy ASP. Introduced strong security to applications by hashing/salting passwords, and encrypting sensitive law enforcement data. Prioritized work to meet deadlines which enabled the successful completion of every product on time.  • Mainly worked on technologies such as C# .Net, ASP.NET, SQL Server, Linq, T-SQL Education M.S. in Computer Science University of Windsor - Windsor, ON December 2009 B.S. in Computer Science Compréhensive University of Wisconsin - Superior, WI May 2005 Skills .net, Ms visual studio, Visual studio, Algorithm, C#, Silverlight, Wcf, Svn, Visio, Xml, Ado, Database, Ado.net, Sql server, Sql, Stored procedures, Data binding, Mvvm, Ui, Wpf Additional Information Operating Systems Windows 10, 8.1, 7, Windows Server 2014, 2012 R2/2012/2008 R2 MS-DOS  Tech/ Protocols SaaS, IIS, HTTP/S, PKI  Utilities & IDE's  MS Visual Studio, LinqPad, MS Team Foundation Server, SVN, MS Visio, SQL Server Mgmt Studio, TOAD, VMWare, Fiddler, Notepad ++, JIRA, AnkhSVN    EXPERIENCE & SPECIAL SKILLS    Software Architecture  • Experienced in developing high performant, highly scalable, extensible, and reliable and mission critical service oriented architectures to perform complex tasks. This includes developing an Electronic Faxing solution that can handle 20k faxes an hour and without modifying a single line of code can evolve to handle any number by just adding another server to the existing cluster, a PDF generating solution that has generated more than 5 million documents a year and can scale infinitely without modifying code. Also, created a highly scalable solution to deliver Uniform Closing Dataset (UCD) documents to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.  Silverlight, WPF & ASP.NET  • Several modules in industry leading commercial software product CGM Clinical was developed using Silverlight & WPF. Experienced in developing WCF Services to get data to the UI, and generating proxies using Svcutil, SLSvcutil and design pattern MVVM and the MVVM Light framework.  • Familiar with concepts such as Data Binding, Converters, Commanding, Behaviors, Triggers, Dependency Properties  • Have worked on developing several N-tier applications using ASP.NET technology. Familiar with concepts such as Master Pages, Web Forms, Ajax Control Toolkit, State Management, Paging/Sorting Data, Handling Concurrency, Validation, Security (Authentication and Authorization)    C#.NET, WCF  • Expert level knowledge in C#.NET that includes concepts such as, Encapsulation, Inheritance, Polymorphism, Garbage collection, Generics, Events, Delegates, LINQ, Type Reflection, Dynamic Types, Late Binding, Multithreading using the Threadpool, Async methods, Task Parallel Library (TPL), File I/O, Object Serialization, ADO.NET, Entity Framework. Experienced in developing loosely coupled applications that are easier to maintain and test.  • Have written several WCF Services and familiar with architecting SOA software solutions.    Database  • Experience in designing and developing relational databases, migrating existing databases to higher versions of SQL Server and normalizing them to reduce data anomalies; creating clustered and non-clustered indexes to optimize searching; creating referential integrity rules to relate data thereby preventing orphaned records. Extensive experience in creating stored procedures, views, functions and using open xml.    Research, Mathematics and Analytical Skills  • Have conducted extensive research during my graduate and undergraduate studies involving highly complex mathematics, including poset theory, Dempster-Shaffer theory and Evidence Combination  • Experience in comparing and analyzing large sets of data and approximating/deriving conclusions.  • Highly skilled in the area of Discrete Mathematics, Algorithm Design, have extensive teaching experience in teaching mathematics at college level for over 5 years.