UI Developer UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> UI Developer Houston, TX Highly skilled software development professional bringing 5 years in software design, development and integration. I bring advanced knowledge of Angular 7 and JavaScript. A regular attendee of web developer meetups and hackathons. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience UI Developer Transcore - Houston, TX January 2019 to August 2019 Took wireframes provided by UX team and translated those wireframes into working code.  The application is for users to register, purchase transponders and manage their user account so they could travel on toll roads.  Recommend processes, services, software and other tools to support business objectives pertinent to user interfaces as well as infrastructure technologies.  Collaborated with leads and developers in daily stand and bi-weekly sprints.  Worked with Jira for issue tracking and user stories.  Used Git, Bitbucket, and Stash for version control  Made API calls using Angular's HTTP to .NET backend. Software Developer National Oilwell Varco - Houston, TX May 2018 to November 2018 Contributed and maintained an existing code base using Angular 6.  Interacted with REST API.  Maintained existing applications and designed and delivered new applications.  Collaborated with leads and developers during bi-weekly sprint meetings to architect, implement and build robust new features.  Handled a fast-paced work environment, deadlines, and new challenges.  Worked on multiple projects simultaneously and meet deadlines while maintaining a high level of professional standards and quality.  Demonstrated creativity, flexibility, high energy, strong work ethic, and strong problem- solving skills.  Wrote clean, clear and well-tested code for various projects. Web Developer Hair-N-Paris - Houston, Tx March 2014 to April 2018 Developed customer facing single page application using Angular 2, 4 and 5.  I also set up payment processing using the Stripe API and PayPal API.  I produced responsive applications using CSS3, SCSS and Bootstrap .  I collaborated with backend-engineers to design the backend and database using Ruby on Rails and PostgreSql.  Worked in an Agile-driven environment to effectively maintain project timelines and utilize available resources.  Produced websites compatible with multiple browsers.  Designed and updated layouts to meet usability and performance requirements. Skills Angular, CSS3, Front-End, Front End, Javascript, UI, Node Links https://github.com/Princetonevans https://www.linkedin.com/in/princeton-evans/