SOFTWARE DEVELOPER <span class="hl">SOFTWARE</span> <span class="hl">DEVELOPER</span> SOFTWARE DEVELOPER - AIG Pearland, TX Seeking a Front-End Software Engineer Position with the focus on data-driven web application with opportunities to grow professionally to Full Stack role. Experience in designing and building mobile-first hybrid web application. Work Experience SOFTWARE DEVELOPER AIG - Houston, TX December 2018 to Present SponsorFIT - Financial retirement web application to monitor organization accounts:  • Worked within a cross-functional agile scrum team to design and develop clean, reusable front-end react components to meet industry accessibility standards.  • Contributed to the wireframing, UI/UX design, and prototyping front-end applications.  • Rapidly built several proof-of-concept business intelligent reporting tools from data modeling to integration with React front-end web application.  • Developed data pipelines to provide real-time big data solutions for financial reports and audit needs using ETL tools such as Talend and cloud-based technology such as snowflake. SOFTWARE DEVELOPER ClearKey - Houston, TX August 2018 to January 2019 Email Marketing Extension:  • Translated business requirements from design mock-ups to technical code for client-side app.  • Contributed to building out microservice API for websocket messaging and data storage to Mysql database.  • Worked with FileStack, Pubnub, and Amazon Web Services S3. PROCESS & SYSTEM ENGINEER Samsung Austin Semiconductor - Austin, TX June 2012 to April 2017 Automation of Post-Maintenance Release project (SQL):  ? Reduced man-hours spent by 30% by automating process trend monitoring post preventative maintenance on production machine using statistical analysis while ensuring product quality. Developed using SQL from a base framework using Samsung specific developer windows environment. Performed all local development, testing, deployment, post-release monitoring, and patch updates.  Post-deployment monitoring system project (Spotfire):  ? Dashboard was created to aggregate signals of interest after a system release/update and quickly identify potential errors that may impact production. Education BACHELOR OFSCIENCE in CHEMICAL ENGINEER The University of Texas - Austin, TX 2007 to 2012 Skills Javascript, CSS, Git, MYSQL, HTML 5 Links https://github.com/quangthuyhoang http://www.quangthuyhoang.com