Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Hammond, IN Senior Software Developer and owner of CyberLite Technology LLC. I am the lead developer for the CyberLite Technology website, as well as all current projects and applications developed by the company. I am also a graduate from Purdue University Northwest where I received my Bachelor of Science in Computer Science with minors in Applied Mathematics and Statistics. I'm vying for a jump start in the world of software development by diving straight into the deep-end of freelance software development and running a small company. I also run and maintain my blog site where I attempt to give insight into my learning process as well as any tips or advice I may have for my readers. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Developer CyberLite Technology - Hammond, IN December 2017 to Present • Develop and design a variety of software based on the client's  needs.  • Maintain current knowledge of a wide variety of programming  languages and technologies by continuing to learn and develop  proficiency through implementation.  • Create reasonable and attainable deployment schedules for respective clients and meet the deadlines agreed upon within it. Specialist (E-4) U.S. Army June 2009 to June 2017 • Perform low level maintenance, emergency maintenance and operate military ground vehicles.  • Maintain peak physical and mental readiness for possible  deployments.  • Continuously develop leadership skills through various exercises and military classes / schools. Education Bachelor's in Computer Science Purdue University Northwest - Hammond, IN January 2011 to May 2019 Associate in Computer Information Systems Allied American University - Laguna Hills, CA January 2015 to May 2016 Skills .net (Less than 1 year), Ajax (Less than 1 year), Android (Less than 1 year), C (Less than 1 year), Css (Less than 1 year), PHP, MySQL, Git, Javascript, jQuery, HTML 5 Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/scottie-richardson-982816131/ http://www.scottierichardson.com Military Service Branch: United States Army Rank: E-4 Additional Information SKILLS  • Ability to Manage Multiple Projects in a Deadline-Driven Environment  • Experience with Git and Remote Version Control  • Work Well Both Independently and Within Team Settings  • Consistently Seeking and Learning New Technology  • Ability to Quickly Learn and Adapt  • Natural Leader  • Results Driven  • Excellent Communicator    Programming Languages  C, C#, C++, Java, JavaScript, Python, R, PHP, SQL, Ruby, Haskell, Visual  Basic, HTML, CSS, SCSS    Other Technologies  Microsoft Visual Studio, Eclipse, Android Studio, Relational Databases,  Non-Relational Databases, UML, .NET, PIP, NodeJS, jQuery, AJAX, ExpressJS,  Ruby on Rails, Microsoft Word, Microsoft Excel, Microsoft PowerPoint