Job Seeker US ? Associated with One Business Consulting Group as a Software Developer since May 2014.  ? Solutions-focused, team oriented and versatile experience in C#, .NET MVC, Entity Framework,  LINQ, basic of windows azure.  ? Hands-on experience and Comprehensive exposure to .NET MVC, , CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, Jquery,  HTML basic windows azure, Worker Process Window Azure, Twilio IVR API, Plivo SMS API, Window  Azure.  ? A dynamic, team spirited and performance driven professional, with 4.8 years of rich experience  including internship in IT industry.  ? Implementing solutions in a timely and effective manner ensuring quality while leveraging many  different technologies.  ? Self-motivated, results-oriented with strong desire to learn and grow, proven record of task  completion with high quality results.  ? A team player with excellent communication, problem solving, troubleshooting and analytical skills. Work Experience Direct Care Innovation March 2015 to Present Project Description It is about providing service to the client online by serving him on daily basis,  residential program basis and billing them online by adding punches NET developer " ONE BCG ", Mohali November 2014 to Present Completed 6 months Intern as software developer with " ONE BCG ", Mohali from May-2014  to Oct-2014.  Skill Set  kinrasachin.123@gmail.com    91- 9803688060  India    ? Strong knowledge of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  ? Ability to grasp new things quickly, proactive attitude & good team player with strong  interpersonal skills.  ? Possess good communication skills, self-motivated, task oriented and comfortable in high  intensity, high rewarding work environment.    Projects Undertaken  Project Name Payroll Engine  Project Duration September 2017 to December 2018  Project Description It is about US Payroll System Calculate Taxes Federal, State, Pre Tax, Post Tax  liabilities. Inventory Management StateServ May 2014 to March 2015 Project Description MVC based application with MS SQL Server 2012 as back end will help the client to manage the sales, delivery and warehouse management. In this  dealers can make quotations for the products as per their requirement and same will be forwarded to the warehouse for further processing and delivery.  System will also monitor for warehouse for remaining stock and will intimate for any shortage. It uses automatic event driven notifications for par level  maintenance of inventory. Mobile app is used by drivers for delivery and pickup Role & Software Developer Project Technical 2013 to 2013 NET MVC 5, C#, Entity Framework 6, SQL Server 2012, VS-2013, Window  stack Azure,  Plivo, Twilio  Role & Software Developer  responsibilities  ? Integration the HTML Design  ? Code Development, Maintenance and Refactoring.  ? Unit Testing.  ? Code Deployment.    Project Technical .NET MVC 5, C#, Entity Framework 6, SQL Server 2012, VS-2013, Window Azure  stack Plivo, Twilio  Role & Software Developer  responsibilities  ? Integration the HTML Design  ? Code Development, Maintenance and Refactoring.  ? Unit Testing.  ? Code Deployment. Role & Software Developer Project Technical 2012 to 2012 responsibilities  ? Integration the HTML Design  ? Code Development, Maintenance and Refactoring.  ? Unit Testing Education Master of Computer Applications in Computer Applications Punjab Technical University 2014 Additional Information Technical Skills    Programming Languages: C#, .NET MVC, Entity Framework, SQL, LINQ.  Tools and Utilities: Visual Studio 2013.  Databases: SQL Server 2012.    Operating Systems: Windows 7, Window 10.  Front End Skills: HTML, JavaScript, CSS, AJAX, JQERY,