Cloud Developer Cloud <span class="hl">Developer</span> .NET/Cloud Developer Spring, TX More than 8+ years of diverse full stack experience in Object Oriented Programming(OOP), in all phases of software analysis, design, development and deploying N-tier web applications, client/server applications using ASP.NET CORE 1/2/2.2, C++, C#, WCF, Web Services, Web API, ASP.NET 4.5/5, MVC4/5, Angular2/4, jQuery, JSON, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and TSQL, SQL Server 2015, Visual Studio 2012, 2013, 2015, 2017, 2019, XML.  • Domain expertise includes various industries such as Oil and Gas, Banking, Insurance, Healthcare, Education, Legal and Logistics.  • Experience in developing N-Tier Architecture using Data Access Layer (DAL), Business Logic Layer (BLL) and User Interface (UI), Model View Controller (MVC).  • Experienced in developing Single Page Application (SPA) by using Angular2/4.  • Strong experience in responsive UI design and tools such as HTML4/5, CSS3, Bootstrap, AJAX and Angular.  • Strong Extensive understanding in creating and managing Controllers, View Models, Views, Layout and Partial Views using ASP.NET MVC5 and ASP.NET CORE.  • Experience in working with ASP.NET Web Forms, Master Pages, User Controls, Data Grids and HTML5 features.  • Developed Web, Windows and Console Applications using Visual C#, ASP.NET Web API, ASP.NET CORE.  • Competence in using various IDE tools like Arduino IDE, Eclipse, Visual Studio, Brackets, Sublime and Visual studio code.  • Installed third-party tools and various development-based dependencies using Node Package Manager (npm).  • Experienced with Object Oriented Programming (OOP) design patterns such as Singleton, Abstract Factory, Factory Method, Prototype and Dependency Injection for C# and AngularJS.  • Extensive experience in Entity Framework and ADO.NET to access data services from database as well as Code-first and database-first approaches.  • Utilized services and factories with Dependency Injection (DI) in AngularJS and ASP.NET MVC.  • Experience in Web Services, Windows Communication Foundation (WCF), Web API as well as Internet Information Services (IIS) and data transfer in XML, JSON, Plaintext.  • Strong skills in using Views, View Models, Temp data, Temp tables and Action Filters in ASP.NET MVC, ASP.NET CORE.  • Developed Azure Web Jobs, Functions, App Services, IoT Edge Modules, COSMOS DB for storing data collected from various PLC's and Third-Party Data into different Streams.  • Created Stream Analytic Jobs for streaming data to more than one location like Storage Account, Data Lake Gen1 and Data Bricks.    • Enabled Email service when an issue detected and triggered in Data Loss using SMTP within Azure Functions.  • Proficient in using of Master page, Layout page and partial views.  • Strong experience with Query Strings, Cookies and Session State properties.  • Used Web Grid, Grid View, Controls and Custom Controls with jQuery/JSON to provide flexible, editable and sortable grid view to increase user interaction.  • Strong knowledge in error handling concepts such as Try and Catch.  • Worked on ASP.NET and Azure AD Security features using filters such as Authentication and Authorization.  • SQL DB migration from Local DB to Azure SQL DB.  • Use Azure Redis cache and Azure search for adding indexes, filters using retrievable, filterable, sortable and searchable.  • Proficiency in LINQ for data retrieval, CRUD operation, data filtering, sorting.  • Strong knowledge in Database Analysis/Design, Entity Relationship Diagrams (ERD), Data Definition Language (DDL), Data Manipulation Language (DML).  • Experience in using NUnit and Jasmine to test and detect possible problems for related application, and used Fiddler, Postman, for testing application performance and debugging Web APIs.  • Expertise in T-SQL and extensive experience in Stored Procedures, User Defined Functions (UDF), Dynamic query design, Transaction and Triggers as well as report creation by using SSIS, SSRS.  • Contributed to software development projects in the Team Foundation Server (TFS) environment.  • Experienced in BI and reporting tools such as SSIS, SSRS, Excel and MS Excel.  • Experienced with Agile methodology and familiar with document drafting and Agile Scrum Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) as well as Waterfall methodologies.  • Experience in groupware and project management software such as Kanban, Slack, Trello, MS Projects and GIT.  • Build application using CI/CD Pipeline using Azure DevOps of an application.  • Excellent written/verbal communication skills as well as strong organizational and problem- solving skills.  • Self-motivated with excellent analytical, effective communication to peers and business users, interpersonal, able to work with tight deadlines and presentation skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Cloud Developer XTO Energy - Spring, TX July 2018 to July 2019 Responsibilities:    • Successfully developed various Arduino Projects in Arduino IDE and Visual Studio 2017 enabling visual micro for devices using C++.  • Developed Azure IoT Edge, web and console applications by using ASP.NET Core 1.0, 2.0 and 2.2 versions, Web in the environment by using Visual Studio.  • Used the database and developed stored procedures, dynamic SQL, functions and views by using SQL Server Management Studio 2015.  • Worked to design, develop and maintain core system modules. Researched new web and back- end technologies.  • Created Azure functions, Web Jobs, App Services and IoT Edge Modules to perform various tasks.  • Incorporated Docker Support for applications to host applications in different Servers like virtual machine, container registry, edge gateways which has VM of Linux.  • Worked on various Azure Container Services like container registry using Docker and Storage services like Files, Queues and Blobs.  • Implemented an API call layer for my Team Big Data Project using Asp.Net Core 2.2.  • Build Logical Apps for collecting Microsoft Teams chat messages and save them in Queues, Tables within container.  • Implemented Unit of Work, Dependency Injection and Repository patterns for faster and stable application development.    • Worked on Azure Virtual Machine and used Azure AD for successfully Authenticate users within my organization to secure access applications.  • Used Key Vault access for important credentials and connection strings access within all application using successful Azure AD authentication.  • Conversion of XML Objects to Json Objects for passing messages to Event Hub.  • Used GIT for version controlling and Azure DevOps for project management.  • Used MS Excel in order create ad-hoc reports. Created Wiki documentation in Azure DevOps project for documentation of the project.  • Utilized authentication, authorization and profile pages.  • Used CSS3 and HTML to design a responsive user interface and utilized Bootstrap.  • Contributed the development team in an agile, using Kanban Board software development environment. Build and Test using Git Source Control.    Environment: C++, .NET C#, ASP.NET CORE, Angular, Web API, Entity Framework (EF), Visual Studio Management, SQL Server 2015, XML, Postman, MS Excel, Arduino IDE, Windows, Azure DevOps (VSTS), Kanban, Git, Scrum. Sr. Software Developer Sigma Aldrich - St. Louis, MO October 2017 to June 2018 Responsibilities:    • Successfully developed a web application by using ASP.NET MVC5, Web API with Angular2 and leveraged Entity Framework (EF) in the environment by using Visual Studio.  • Created the database and developed stored procedures, dynamic SQL, functions and views by using SQL Server Management Studio 2012.  • Created robust stored procedures (SP) having custom error handling try-catch blocks with transactions for planned error handling rollbacks to recent commits and save points.  • Table design, creation and optimization with MSSQL 2012. Designed, created and updated tables in the project. Experience in adding indexes to tables that need it to boost search operations for data. Experience in index rebuilding activities to low fragmentation.  • Incorporated data normalization techniques within User Defined Functions (UDF) to ensure memory efficient data storage, and advantageously utilize UDF data caching for frequent accessed tables and minimize normalization overhead.  • Leveraged Angular resources for all data access, encapsulating URLs and standardizing data access interfaces.  • Developed UI using Angular2 Components, Routing and services.  • Extensively use various data rendering directives such as ng-repeat, ng-if, ng-show, ng-hide as well as routing directives.  • Implemented Unit of Work, Dependency Injection and Repository patterns for faster and stable application development.  • Created C# back-end codes deriving from mathematical models supporting automatic restocking requests, dynamic forecasting and Critical Path Management (CPM).  • Created custom directives for re-usable components (multi-field form elements, background file uploads, etc.)    • Used breakpoint as stopping point in the code and review the status of the variable for the SSIS.  • Used HTML Razor engine, HTML helper, CSS, XML and bootstrap to make the UI controls look unique while designing web forms.  • Involved in code peer review, system regression and unit testing using Nunit.  • Used Team Foundation Server (TFS) for version controlling and VSTS for project management.  • Used MS Excel in order create ad-hoc reports.  • Utilized authentication, authorization and profile pages.  • Used CSS3 and HTML to design a responsive user interface and utilized Bootstrap.  • Contributed the development team in an agile, scrum software development environment.    Environment: .NET C#, ASP.NET MVC5, Angular, Web API, Entity Framework (EF), Visual Studio Management, SQL Server 2012, HTML, CSS3, Bootstrap, MS Excel, Windows 8.1, Team Foundation Server (TFS), Salesforce, Buffer Agile, Scrum. Software Developer Americo Life Insurance - Kansas City, MO May 2016 to September 2017 Responsibilities:    • Assisting students and professors with borrowing books and other materials in Library. Patron record maintenance.  • Worked on a system which was developed using ASP.NET MVC using Razor view and SQL Server database.  • Provide support to all EDI production processes and develop and modify all maps for trading partners and coordinate with end users to expand all e businesses.  • Used Server-Side Validation Controls and Client-Side Validations (using JavaScript /jQuery) for handling the form inputs.  • Actively played the role of an Agile Programmer and followed TDD (Test Driven Development) concepts.  • Designed GUI using ASP.NET, HTML, CSS and Bootstrap.  • Entity Framework Model used for creating Data layer models.  • Created View Model for displaying the data to end users same as Model and to combine data from different tables and to display in single model view.  • Used Partial View for reusability of views and to keep the same layout throughout the application, I have used Layout, it's like Master page in MVC.  • Performed Data Annotation attribute for Validations.  • Application is developed using TFS to build the processes.  • Performed Agile Model for development.  • Applied unit testing by using NUnit and wrote Test cases.  • Table design, creation and optimization with MSSQL 2012. Designed, created and updated tables in the project. Experience in adding indexes to tables that need it to boost search operations for data. Experience in index rebuilding activities to low fragmentation.  • Created database in the SQL Server environment, created Stored Procedures, User Defined Functions.    • All UML Diagrams developed using Rational Rose and MS Visual Studio.  • Deploy Application on IIS Server.    Environment: .NET C#, Razor, Microsoft Visual Studio 2015, SQL Server Management Studio 2012, Entity Framework, ASP.NET MVC 4, CSS, jQuery, Team Foundation Server (TFS). Software Developer Golden State Concepts - San Jose, CA July 2015 to April 2016 Responsibilities:    • Developed different GUI screens using HTML, CSS and added functionality to those screens using JavaScript.  • Developed an ASP.NET4 web application and utilized three-tiered architecture to leverage the secure middle tier data access components employing object-oriented programming concepts such as encapsulation, inheritance, polymorphism and abstraction by using C#.  • Utilized Entity Framework (EF) with relational data using domain-specific objects.  • Implemented ADO.NET to implement the data access.  • Involved in database, frontend and backend development of the web application in the Visual Studio and SQL Server environments.  • Created the database architecture and utilized logical business transactions using Stored Procedures, User Defined Functions and Dynamic SQL Queries.  • Used HTML4, CSS3, AJAX toolkit and JavaScript to design a user-friendly, responsive UI and achieve the consistent look and feel of the website.  • Designed the master page and used sessions to create employee specific profiles.  • Used controls such as Dropdown-list, Checkbox-list and other advanced controls such as Grid- View for real-time CRUD operations, data retrieval and manipulation.  • Involved in testing and debugging of the software by using NUnit.  • Worked in a Waterfall software development environment. Conducted routine maintenance tasks to debug errors and restore functionality of applications.  • Evaluated completed developmental tasks to ensure compliance with specified standards.  • Carried out primary troubleshooting activities in production and test environments.  • Back-end logic was developed using ASP.NET MVC and SQL Server database.  • Performed client-side validations using JavaScript.  • Developed data layer using Entity Framework Model.  • Created view-model for displaying the data to end users same on GUI and combined data from different tables to display in single model view.  • Used partial View for reusability and consistency of views.  • Developed and tracked the tasks in TFS to build the entire application.  • Followed agile methodology for continuous integrated development.  • Designed UML diagrams using Rational Rose and Visual Studio.    • Developed the back-end code using Visual Studio.    Environment: .NET C#, ASP.NET4, HTML4, CSS3, JavaScript Entity Framework (EF), ADO.NET, AJAX, jQuery, Visual Studio Management, SQL Server Management Studio 2012, Waterfall. Software Developer Dharav Info Solutions - Hyderabad, Telangana August 2012 to June 2015 Responsibilities:  • Developed the entire web application using MVC design pattern and HTML as markup.  • Developed different GUI screens using HTML, CSS and added functionality to those screens using JavaScript.  • Back-end logic was developed using ASP.NET MVC and SQL Server database.  • Performed client-side validations using JavaScript.  • Developed data layer using Entity Framework Model.  • Implemented Model First Entity Framework and used Razor controller.  • Created view-model for displaying the data to end users same on GUI and combined data from different tables to display in single model view.  • Used partial View for reusability and consistency of views.  • Developed and tracked the tasks in TFS to build the entire application.  • Followed agile methodology for continuous integrated development.  • Designed UML diagrams using Rational Rose and Visual Studio.  • Developed the entire front-end code in notepad++.  • Developed the back-end code using Visual Studio.  • Developed triggers for validating the user-entered data.  • Designed SQL queries to perform CRUD operations on the data in the database.  • Tested and debugged each module of the Application.  • Created and deployed XML Web Services (WCF) using ASP.NET and C#, used them to generate the proxy class files based on the web services and consumed in the web application.  • Used Cascading Style Sheets (CSS) to maintain design consistency across all web forms.  • Created Custom Validation Controls for validating the data in the User Control and used ASP.NET Validation Controls for server-side validation and Java Script for client-side validation.  • Implemented Role based authorization and Form based authentication.  • Responsible for development of SQL scripts to Insert/Update and Delete data in MS SQL database tables.  • Involved in Troubleshooting and Debugging of the application within the stipulated time.  • Involved in gathering the requirements from end-user.  • Consolidating the required steps to design a module and communicating it to the team members.    Environment: C#.Net, ASP.NET2.0/3.0, Razor, JavaScript, T-SQL, SQL Server 2000, Entity Framework, HTML, CSS, web services. Web Developer Sri Vasudha Tek Solutions - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2010 to August 2012 Responsibilities:    • Implemented features of ASP.Net such as Calendar Controls, Repeater Control, and Validation controls, Dataset, Security using Forms authentication and role-based authorization.  • Developed web application using MVC design pattern, Razor as view engine and HTML as markup. Created Web pages using HTML, ASP.NET and Java Scripts.  • Utilized Sitecore CMS solutions to design .Net application features.  • Designed and developed n-tier .NET MVC web applications, WCF Services, WPF applications, web APIs and web services, windows services and console applications using C#, ASP.NET, JavaScript technologies and SQL Server.  • Responsible for developing the static content using front end with HTML5, CSS3 and bootstrap by coordinating with the UX designers.  • Involved in updating the UI as per the changing requirements.  • Used JavaScript extensively to make the web pages more interactive.  • Used SASS while styling the UI pages with CSS3.  • Created sliders and used full calendar depending on the requirements of the mobile application.  • Used JSON for information storage and transfer between browsers and servers.  • Involved in implementing MVC design pattern.  • Involved in creating various Modules/Controllers/Components for the application.  • Involved in writing triggers to check some of the rules at the backend at the time of entering data.  • Designed databases for different projects and resolve database issues.  • Tested and debugged each form of the Application on various Operating Systems within stipulated time.  • Configured app.config file, for the configuration of the entire Application according to the levels of security provided to users.    Environment: C#.Net, ASP.NET, JavaScript, JQuery, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, T-SQL, Sitecore CMS, Traditional Validations, WCF Services, Microsoft Visual Studio. Education MASTER OF TECHNOLOGY in Computer Science Engineering JNTU May 2012 Computer Science Engineering JNTU May 2007 Skills MS VISUAL STUDIO, VISUAL STUDIO, ANALYSIS SERVICES, API, ARDUINO, C#, C++, Git, HTML, TYPESCRIPT, ASP.NET MVC 4, WCF, PYTHON, Ruby, SCRIPTING, VBSCRIPT, XML, XSLT, DB2, SQL SERVER