Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Overland Park, KS The reason I fell in love with software development was the ability to create and improve things for thousands of people at the touch of a button. I have always loved helping people and the ability to do this as well as solve complex problems are the things I love most about my what I do.     I have been using React, React Native, Redux, and Firebase for a long time now, those are my strengths. I have used and am also interested in Node/Express and MongoDB.    Other than that I am a very driven person and I love being around similar people in an environment to grow from each other, inspire each other, and make cool things for people. Work Experience Software Developer Farmobile March 2018 to Present Farmobile - Farmobile is a company that puts IoT devices in large scale  farming equipment, basically a fit bit for a huge machine. For the past year and a half, I have been working with different scrum teams doing web development to turn this rich data into useful tools and features for our farmers and other customers. Each team was often deploying completed, valuable, tested features to our customers nearly  every two weeks. One of my favorite things I will take with me from this experience will be being able to work  alongside other talented developers who were passionate about what they were doing and doing it the right way.  The technologies I was using here were mainly react and redux with some node/express work on occasion.    Free time - Writing software isn't just my 9-5, it also occupies a lot of my free time. I love JavaScript and I see a lot of value in using one language throughout the technology stack, so I like to do a lot of learning and building in that  technology stack in order to grow. So far, I have taken 5 industry professional taught courses through a site called  Udemy. The courses focused on react-native, react, redux, express, node and firebase. I am also nearly ready to launch an android and iOS app using react-native, redux, and firebase as the core technologies. Software Developer, The App Pros February 2015 to March 2018 The App Pros is a company that does client-driven software  development, with no real "product" of their own. During my time there I experienced the full software development  life cycle of more than 15 projects. Most of these solutions were websites, apps or a blend of both. The exposure to this number of projects grew my ability to recognize and improve poor architecture and become very resourceful and  persistent when solving complex problems. During my last year and a half with the company I also was exposed to working remotely. This grew my ability to work and communicate with clients and colleagues who were also remote or on different time schedules completely. Associate .Net Developer June 2014 to February 2015 HealthMEDX - I was on two different teams at HMX. One of the teams that  I was on was a maintenance team in which I would find and correct bugs that came from support or QA. The  team that I spent most of the time on was a new development team working to facilitate communication between HMX's software and the software of various pharmacies, hospitals, and billing systems to obtain patient data quickly and effectively. Education Bachelor of Science degree in Computer Information Systems and Business Administration College of the Ozarks - Branson, MO January 2010 to May 2014 Skills Git, Javascript, CSS, HTML 5, Firebase (2 years), React (2 years), React Native (2 years), Redux (2 years), Node / Express (1 year), MongoDB (1 year)