Developer <span class="hl">Developer</span> Developer - Energy Marketing * Having 6 .2 years of experience in the IT Industry as a Software Developer.  * Worked in designing, developing web based and windows-based applications using Microsoft .NET Technologies such as ASP.Net, C#.Net, ADO.Net, Oracle, MVC 4.0.  * Worked in Mobile Applications development i.e. Xamarin Android  * Having knowledge in Crystal Reports and Oracle 11g.  * Experience in creating Database tables, views and stored procedures in SQLSERVER 2005.  * Worked in different tolls tile SAST and HP Fortify, Resharper and Beyond compare. Work Experience Developer Energy Marketing February 2018 to Present Team Size 1  Technology Visual Studio 2008, Crystal Reports and Oracle 11g    Description:  To re-engineer the existing Customer Profile Order Processing application from windows application to web application with some enhancements. It should cover the major modules of order processing, costing, scheduling and Logistics, web portal integration, payables, receivables, Inventory, Pricing and Sales & Marketing.  Activities  • Prepared functional requirement document for new requirement changes  • Involved in Coding phase  • Prepared test cases and doing manual and integration end to end testing  • Running the job codes and creating the crystal reports.  • Working on Crystal Reports using Oracle  • Creating Task Schedulers using windows services.    Project #2: Developer Utility and Power June 2017 to February 2018 Domain Digital  Duration Jun 2017 to Feb 2018  Team Size 5  Technology Xamarin Android    Description:  Tracking of construction materials required for Utility and Power distribution projects (UPD)  Updating material consumption which in turn will be the indicator of the activity progress  The scope of this project is limited to build and implement the mobile application, web portal applications and Integration with Enterprise Integration Portal (EIP) to accommodate the features specified in this document.  Activities  • Prepared functional requirement document for entire Application  • Involved in Requirement gathering phase.  • Involved in Bug fixing  • Involved in Coding phase  • Prepared test cases and doing manual and integration end to end testing    Project #3: Developer Chevron-SJV East Remediation July 2016 to March 2017 Team Size 6  Environment Web Application (with skill versions) Technologies: C#.Net, Vb.Net, Asp.Net Tools: SAST Tool, HP Fortify    Description:  East remediation mainly deals with fixing code vulnerabilities with the help of SAST and HP Fortify tool. The code fixing is done manually or tools. This also involves implementation of source code based on visual studio versions.    Activities  * Prepared test cases and do the testing  * Implemented remediated code  * Involved in Bug fixing  * Resolving pre-compilation errors    Project #4: Developer Rules Engine March 2016 to April 2016 Team Size 3  Environment Web Application (with skill versions) Technologies: C#.Net, Vb.Net Database: AQT Tools: Beyond Compare, Resharper    Description:  Rules Engine mainly involved in finding the claims depends on the events. Claims will trigger events. Those events are attribute level and claim level. Process event with set of rules (against any Claim). Those rules are set through this application called librarian application.    Activities:  * Involved in finding Claims  * Involved in Unit Testing  * Involved in code refactoring.    Project #5: Developer Infineon April 2014 to April 2015 Domain Manufacturing Execution System (MES)  Duration Apr 2014 to Apr 2015  Team Size 10  Environment Web Application (with skill versions) Technologies: Asp.Net and C#.net Database: Oracle SQL Server 2005    Description:  RCP-Server is a windows Service which replies recipe information is requested by Job Controller of Fabcockpit GUI. It is creating a different type of files in recipe i.e. log files, journal file and Ini files. Entire RCP server structure depends on incoming and outgoing messages.  GAGE is a quality management tool for metrology group. This application is also used to handle legal issues of IFX with government. The devices, which are used by Infineon, are subjected to measurement using various measurement types. Devices are compared with an ideal or standardized device, which is calibrated and certified by external vendor.    Activities  * Involved in coding at development phase.  * Involved in UI Design.  * Prepared feasibility documents for Gage application.  * Involved in migration process for Gage application.    Project #6: Developer ENOC -Emirates National Oil Company June 2013 to April 2014 Domain Unified Oil & Gas Platform-Energy and Petrochemical  Duration Jun 2013 to Apr 2014  Team Size 10  Environment Web Application (with skill versions) Technologies: Asp.Net with MVC 4.0, JQuery, Entity Framework Database: Oracle SQL Server 2005    Description:  ENOC (Emirates National Oil Company) is an ETRM based project. It is a unified solution for all ENOC groups of companies (Dubai). This project contains various modules, which are associated with various processes such as import, export etc. The broad objectives of this project are to document the identified commonalities between group companies Business functions and come-up with Unified Oil & Gas Application Platform. This should enhance the operational process efficiency and migrate to a robust technology, which is scalable and flexible to address the change in Business dynamics.    Activities:  * Involved in coding at development phase.  * Involved in UI Design.  * Prepared DLD and HLD Documents.  * Prepare SP's and Views in Database.  * Identified the bugs while testing and fixing them in a very short period.  * Prepared functional and technical test cases. Software Engineer Lnt InfoTech - Chennai, TAMIL NADU, IN October 2012 to October 2012 Projects:  Project #1:    Project Name CPOP (Client Profile and Order Processing) Education Master in Computer Applications JNT University Additional Information Technical Skills    Domains MEI & MES in Semiconductor & Solar, Energy and Petrochemical, Insurance, Mobility  Programming Languages C#.Net  Web Technologies Xamarin, ASP.NET with MVC 4.0, HTML, ADO.NET, Entity Framework, JavaScript  Database Oracle  Tools HP Fortify, SAST, Resharper, Beyond Compare  Testing Manual Testing, Integration Testing