Android App Developer Android App <span class="hl">Developer</span> Android App Developer Software Engineer with +2 years of experience in software development. Experienced software developer who  has a track record of success creating apps that are both well-received and commercially viable. Outgoing and  detail-oriented. Proficient at building and maintaining professional relationships. Seeking challenging tasks and  responsibilities which could contribute towards self-improvement along-side the growth of the organization. Work Experience Android App Developer March 2019 to May 2019 APIs March 2018 to May 2018 • Bidding Application for Project Freelancing: This project was an Android application with Java serving  as the server-side code to communicate between the app and database by consuming REST APIs. It was  built to showcase the understanding to Advanced Database concepts.  Technology: Eclipse, GCP Tomcat for APIs, Android Studio, Cloud Database, Designed and Developed  Database Schema  Team Role: Database design, API creation, Android app development (Spring 2018)  • WooCommerce Android Client App: This project contributed towards the understanding of WordPress  and WooCommerce integration in mobile applications. Complete end to end Android application  mimicking a small ecommerce website was achieved. Including integration of PayPal sandbox for money  transactions.  Technology: WAMP Server for windows, AWS EC2 for hosting WordPress, Android Studio, PHP, Scribe, GSON, Picasso Image Loading Software Engineer BVBI Infotech - IN May 2015 to July 2017 May 2018 - July 2018)  * WooCommerce Tax and Payment Plugins (Taxometry):  The Taxometry project has two plugins. The first one is a Tax plugin that calculates the tax for each product for SST Split Supported states in the USA and splits the retailer money and tax  using our own Payment plugin for PayPal and Authorize.net.  Technology: WordPress, WooCommerce, VS-Code, PHP  Team Role: Core PHP coding for the plugins.  * Condo Application:  Developed and released both iOS and Android Apps. The Condo Application is an advertisement management application that is confined to a group of Condos or Apartment  Towers. This application requires a Credit Card for registration and posting of Advertisements  of products for sale. The posted ads are only visible for the people living in the same group of Condos or apartment towers.  Play Store Link: https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.condo.bvbi.condo.ihouse  Apple App Store Link: https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/i-house-chowk/id1137074828  Technology: Xcode and Android Studio, GSON, Picasso Image Loading, HttpURLConnection  Team Role: Frontend UI development and Core business logic  * Trainer for freshers:  Trained new graduates in the development of iOS applications using Xcode and Objective-C. Education Master's in Computer Science in Data Mining University of Bridgeport May 2019 Bachelor's Degree in Computer Applications in Computer Applications PES Institute of Technology - Bengaluru, Karnataka June 2014 Skills ANDROID, OBJECTIVE-C, XCODE, .NET, MICROSOFT VISUAL STUDIO, VISUAL STUDIO, ANDROID STUDIO, C#, PHP, PYTHON, ECLIPSE, JAVA, WINDOWS 7, MACOS Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/sdravishankar