Sr .Net Developer Sr .Net <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr .Net Developer - Career Education Corporation Schaumburg, IL • 7+ years of experience with focus on Web Design, Object Oriented programming and Database architecture involving requirement analysis, design, and development and testing.  • Hands on experience using C#, ASP.Net, MVC, ADO.Net, .NET Framework 4.0,4.5,HTML5, CSS3, XML, AngularJS, NodeJS, Restful Services, Java Script, Bootstrap, Entity Framework, JQuery, SharePoint, JavaScript, SQL Server, Web Services, Micro services and Agile methods.  • Experience in Sitecore CMS Implementation, Content design and development with ASP.Net Web forms and MVC.  • Proficient in designing and developing front end, component-based and object-oriented systems for building multi-tier architecture with hands-on development expertise in front end GUI layer.  • Experience working on Designing table-less layouts and table-based layouts.  • Extensively used different content management systems like Site core and Orchard.  • Experience using web based accessibility evaluation tools like Wave, Achecker.  • Experience implementing UI controls and developing web APIs using RESTful.  • Involved in Design, Development and Testing of Win Forms, Web Forms and Web Services using IIS, ASP.NET, XML Dataset and .NET Framework.  • Extensive experience working in both AGILE/SCRUM and SDLC based development environment and participating in SCRUM sessions that includes Analyzing, Designing, Coding, Testing, Implementation and production Support.  • Good Experience in working with the Document Object Model (DOM) and DOM Functions.  • Expertise in using debugging tools like Firebug and built in IDE debuggers for troubleshooting.  • Experience with responsive web design with involvement in several web application development projects.  • Good experience in Search Engine Optimization (SEO) techniques in order to develop web based applications  • Hands on experience using the version controls like GIT, SVN and TFS.  • Expertise using databases SQL Servers2005/2008/2012/2016.  • Experience using different Front-End editors like Visual Studio 2008, Notepad++, Sublime and Brackets.  • Demonstrated ability to complete projects in deadline oriented environments  • Quick learner and proficient in solving the technical issues in the project.  • Strong perseverance and diligence towards attaining challenging goals and possess good Communication skills.  • Good at prioritizing and organizing tasks to leverage maximum benefits. Work Experience Sr .Net Developer Career Education Corporation - Schaumburg, IL February 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Worked closely with Client-side manager to understand long-term goals and develop customized solutions with the provided tools.  • Developed various applications using C#, ASP.Net, HTML5,CSS3, JavaScript, JSON, AngularJS, XML, SQL databases for Career Education corporation web-based applications.  • Used AngularJS framework for building web-apps and as well as Restful services.  • Involved in fixing accessibility issues based on web based accessibility evaluation tool Wave.  • Created custom web parts and controls for Blogs, forums, community forums all over the product pages in Sitecore.  • Worked on the latest Angular JS, Node JS and bootstrap frameworks.  • Worked on new features and provided support for all the existing marketing sites.  • Migrated from Sitecore to Orchard CMS, an open source based on ASP.Net MVC.  • Worked for Student Portals and Learning Management systems on C#, ASP.Net, AngularJS and SharePoint based application.  • Developed and consumed SOAP services to extract information from the database and other services.  • Used SQL Server database to maintain, retrieve and update information related to different modules to support student features like Academics, Financial Aid, Student Accounts, Career Services, Classroom etc.  • Worked on Restful services, Web API's for data to flow through the applications.  • Research use of terms, tools and features of competitor websites.  • Analyzed and evaluated User Interface Designs to deliver the client's requirement.  • Updated the content of the share point portals and worked with the Deployment/QA/Product team members.  • Extended a custom domain driven microservices architecture built on top of ASP.Net Web API.  • Collaborate with other team members and stakeholders and Assure that all user input is validated before submitting to UAT.  • Worked on debugging the applications using chrome developer tools, firebug and IE Developer tools.  • Worked on the development of responsive web design.  • Used agile methodology and participated in scrum meetings in effort estimations and designs.  • Resolved user stories with enhancements or support issues in the student and faculty portals.    Environment: HTML 5, CSS 3, JQuery, JSON, JavaScript, Sitecore, Orchard, MVC5, Web API, IIS 7.5,.NET 4.5,C#, ASP.NET, AngularJS, NodeJS, Bootstrap, SharePoint 2017, Microsoft Visual Studio 2015, Restful Services, MicroServices,TFS, MS Office Suite, SOAP UI, Agile Methodology, Sublime, Notepad++, SQL Server 2016. Net Developer British Petroleum, IL March 2015 to January 2017 Responsibilities:  • Worked extensively on MVC applicationusing C#, ASP.Net, Ajax, JavaScript, Bootstrap and fixing Front-end issues with layouts.  • Transformed design mock-ups into cross-browser compatible HTML/CSS layouts and implemented dynamic Elements and reusable libraries with JavaScriptand AngularJS.  • Involved in utilizing the Sitecore CMS Solution for creating web based applications by designing .Net applications.  • Developed and configured WCF Services with appropriate endpoints for consuming them in the web application.  • Implemented custom filters in Grid MVC for user to sort and filter data easily.  • Provided on-demand Sitecore support including creation of new components and revision of existing components.  • Used JQuery Ajax for service calls on pages to interact with the server for information.  • Used JSON for storing and exchanging information between browsers and servers.  • Participated in Sprint Planning Meeting, Sprint Review Meeting, Sprint Retrospective and Iteration demos to Product Owners.  • Involved in using AJAX and JSON to make asynchronous calls to the project server to fetch data and processed JSON response data by consuming Restful web services.  • Worked with page level code using JavaScript with AngularJS framework along with JavaScript libraries.  • Worked extensively on various pages to make them responsive with all kinds of resolutions using bootstrap.  • Used ASP.NET, AJAX to develop the web pages.  • Worked closely with SQA team in fixing the reported bugs/defects and checking cross platform Compatibility.  • Implemented MVC framework in AngularJS and filtered search results using angular filters.  • Worked on Cross Browser Issues for different versions of Chrome, Mozilla Firefox and Internet Explorer.  • Used Git Hub for managing the code.  • Collaborated with team members in analysis, design, coding, testing, and website review.    Environment:C#, ASP.Net,.NET 4.5, MVC4,ADO.Net, SQL Server 2008, Visual Studio, HTML5, IIS 7.0, CSS3, JavaScript, AJAX, Sitecore6.0,JQueryUI, JSON, AngularJS, Agile Methodology, SharePoint 2017, TFS, XML, PHP, GIT, Brackets,Bootstrap. Software Developer Esurance - San Francisco, CA January 2013 to February 2015 Responsibilities:  • Involved in enhancing the application based on client's requirement and updating using the MVC pattern, C#, ASP.Net, Angular JS, JQUERY, Bootstrap, and Web API.  • Extensively used ADO.NET technology to get advantage of disconnected data programming  using technologies like Datasets, Data Adapter, Data Tables and Data View.  • Developed web presentation layer using HTML and CSS according to internal standards and guidelines.  • Involved in complete Agile/SDLC - Requirement Analysis, Development, System and Integration Testing.  • Worked extensively on various pages to make them responsive with all kinds of resolutions  using bootstrap.  • Designed dynamic client-side JavaScript codes to build web forms and simulate process for web application, page navigation and coded Java Script for page functionality.  • Used Action Filters for user authentications and authorizations and for caching pages to improve  performance.  • Developed and supported common controls used through the company including custom grid, button and calendar controls.  • Performed validations on Web Forms using .NET Validation Controls and also JavaScript.  • Worked on SOAP and RESTful services used in various internal applications.  • Designed a Web application using Web API with AngularJS and populated data using ADO.NETentity framework and Used Entity Framework to model and manage data from SQL Server.  • Worked on Responsive Design to make website Responsive for Desktop and Tablets.  • Used Git Hub for managing the code.  • Worked on validators to perform login validations for the end-users and wrote SQL queries to execute various operations to extract & modify data.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, C#, .Net Framework 3.5, ASP.Net, Java Script, Bootstrap, AngularJS, JavaScript, JQuery, Agile Methodology, JSON, SQL server, XML, PHP, GIT, Brackets, TFS Software Developer Impax Laboratories January 2012 to December 2012 Responsibilities:  • Worked on data grid, Web Parts and developed the validation process on both client side and server side using ASP.Net Validation Controls and JavaScript.  • Developed the user interface for various tools and implemented ASP.NET validation controls and master Classes (based on MVC) for the application.  • Responsible for ensuring the pattern consistency across all pages.  • Developed web pages that are rich in user interactive using HTML, CSS, JSON.  • Used JQuery core library functions for the logical implementation part at client side for all the applications.  • Participated in daily stand up calls with business and Dev team as part of Agile process for reporting the day-to- day developments of the work done.  • Used AJAX and JSON to make asynchronous calls to the project server to fetch data.  • Designed multiple unique themes with rich and flexible to accommodate different scenarios in which the user might want to display the data.  • Worked with ADO.NET to access the backend database and JQueryUI library for highly Interactive Visual Effects on the application which included Confirmation Dialogs, Accordion Filters, and ToolTips etc.  • Encapsulated all data logic into Stored Procedures and eliminated all direct SQL calls  using SQL Server 2008 database.  • Developed Web Services, which can be used by a number of clients in getting useful data.  • Assisted in Support and Maintenance of the application during Production Phase.  • Worked on Agile Methodology (Scrum Framework) to meet timelines with quality deliverables.  • Extensively worked in defect maintenance of Front End issues.  • Implemented user interface designs from UI specifications and product requirements.  • Coordinated with QA team on User Acceptance Tests (UAT) and to work in resolving the issues.    Environment: C#, ADO.NET, .NET Framework 3.5, HTML, CSS, AJAX, Java Script, JQuery UI, JSON, JQuery, Agile Methodology, SQL Server 2005,Visual Studio 2005, Windows Server 2003,XML, ASP.NET, IIS. Education Bachelor's Skills .Net (7 years), ADO (5 years), ADO.Net (5 years), AngularJS (6 years), ASP (7 years), ASP.Net (7 years), bootstrap (6 years), HTML5 (6 years), JavaScript (7 years), JQuery (7 years), JSON (7 years), MODEL VIEW CONTROLLER (7 years), MODEL-VIEW-CONTROLLER (7 years), MS ADO (5 years), MS ASP (7 years), MS SQL SERVER (7 years), MVC. (7 years), SQL (7 years), SQL Server (7 years), XML (7 years)