JAVA/J2EE Developer JAVA/J2EE <span class="hl">Developer</span> JAVA/J2EE Developer - TCS San Jose, CA Work Experience JAVA/J2EE Developer TCS June 2019 to Present Serve as a key member of software development team as the senior developer for SAM Retirment project    Roles and Responsibilities:  • Involved in requirement analysis & application design.  • Analysed the oracle waveset code of current SAM application and implemented the same as java rest service.  • Prepared Business Requirement document and Low level design document for the services to be developed.  • Developed the web application using rest service and hibernate to fetch data from oracle database and Oracle Identity Management.  • Created graphical user interfaces (GUIs) front-end using React and Node JS.  • Developed JUnit Test Cases using Mockito and subsequently performed Unit Testing of the various modules.  • Used Weblogic Application Server that implements the Java Platform, Enterprise Edition (Java EE).  • Involved in writing basic SQL queries.  • Coordinate and communicate tasks with developers and the offshore team. JAVA/J2EE Developer TCS September 2018 to May 2019 Serve as a key member of software development team as the senior developer for Governance, Risk and Compliance dashboard    Roles and Responsibilities:  • Involved in requirement analysis & application design.  • Developed the web application using rest service and hibernate to fetch data from oracle database.  • Created graphical user interfaces (GUIs) front-end using React and Node JS.  • Developed JUnit Test Cases and subsequently performed Unit Testing of the various modules.  • Used Spring Boot with embedded Tomcat Application Server that implements the Java Platform, Enterprise Edition (Java EE).  • Involved in writing basic SQL queries.  • Creation of technical specifications, coding, unit and system integration testing for the enhancements and conducted reviews with all the stakeholders of the application. JAVA/J2EE Developer TCS May 2018 to August 2018 Serve as a key member of software development team as the programmer on development project for Virtual Processing Center    Roles and Responsibilities:  • Involved in requirement analysis & Client interaction.  • Developed the web application using Spring MVC Framework by implementing controller and backend service classes.  • Created graphical user interfaces (GUIs) front-end using JSP, JavaScript, JQuery & HTML.  • Implemented JMS for notifications  • Used JUnit, Mock framework in all the modules for unit testing  • Extensively used Log4j and Slf4j for debugging during development.  • Used Tomcat Application Server that implements the Java Platform, Enterprise Edition (Java EE).  • Involved in writing basic SQL queries.  • Participated in all the agile ceremonies and have completed all stories of a sprint without any delay. JAVA/J2EE Developer TCS March 2016 to April 2018 Serve as a key member of software development team as the lead developer for Image Archive and Retrieval project.  Roles and Responsibilities:    • Work with Business Analyst in translating business requirements into Functional Requirements Document and to Detailed Design Documents.  • Lead analysis sessions, gather requirements and write specification and functional design documents for enhancements and customization; Analyze product impact.  • Coordinate and communicate tasks with developers and the offshore team.  • Implementing Design patterns using Spring MVC architecture for developing Presentation tier.  • Developed the front end of the application using JSP pages.  • Involved in adding the new features to the existing system based on the requirements using java.  • Implemented the business layer using Spring framework.  • Implemented the DAO layer using Hibernate. Used Hibernate Persistence Strategy to interact with database.  • Developed web services in java with Soap web services.  • Used JAXB for Marshalling and Unmarshalling.  • Involved in writing Hibernate mapping configuration files for POJO's.  • Involved in validating the various fields in the screen by using Spring validation framework.  • Involved in the bug fixing of the existing modules.  • Developed JUnit Test Cases and subsequently performed Unit Testing of the various modules.  • Wrote the request mappings and screen definitions for the application.  • Used Eclipse IDE and intellij for the development and used Subversion and BitBucket for source code control.  • Developed the web application using Spring MVC Framework by implementing controller and backend service classes.  • Creation of technical specifications, coding, unit and system integration testing for the enhancements and conducted reviews with users.  • Extensively used JUnit, Mock framework in all the modules for unit testing  • Extensively used Log4j and Slf4j for debugging during development.  • Involved in writing basic SQL queries.  • Involved in implementing SSO integration, Maria DB connection, external service dependency using cloud pivotal framework.  • Involved in all the agile ceremonies and also worked with the product owner and scum master in planning stories for the sprint. Software Developer TCS May 2015 to February 2016 Serve as a key member of software development team as the programmer on development project for Global Compliance and Risk Management - Policy Portal project.  Roles and Responsibilities:    • Involved in requirement analysis & Client interaction.  • Worked closely with Business Analysts, Project Managers and Project Leaders to analyze business requirements and Architecture design.  • Developed the web application using Spring MVC Framework by implementing controller and backend service classes.  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) as requirement gathering, modelling, analysis, architecture design and development.  • Created graphical user interfaces (GUIs) front-end using CanJS, JSP, JavaScript, JQuery & HTML.  • Creation of technical specifications, coding, unit and system integration testing for the enhancements and conducted reviews with users.  • Consumed Web Services by implementing Spring's REST support to make the development of RESTful Web services.  • Extensively used JUnit, Mock framework in all the modules for unit testing  • Extensively used Log4j and Slf4j for debugging during development.  • Involved in writing basic SQL queries. Software Quality Assurance Engineer TCS January 2014 to December 2014 Serve as a key member of software development team as the lead QA Engineer on development projects for Enterprise System - Account QA project.  Roles and Responsibilities:    • Work with Business Analyst in translating business requirements into Functional Requirements Document and to Detailed Design Documents.  • Lead analysis sessions, gather requirements and write specification and functional design documents for enhancements and customization; Analyze product impact.  • Coordinate and communicate tasks with developers and the offshore team.  • Creating and executing Lisa test cases to test middleware applications like IBM-Message Queue, JMS, web services and databases  • Lisa test was used to create MQ message and validate MQ response  • Lisa test was also used to run queries on database and compare the query output with MQ response  • Create the soap test cases and executing using Lisa.  • Also prepared test cases and tested Ab initio jobs.  • Responsible for creating Test Cases in Quality Center and execution of the same for assigned modules.  • Integrated system testing according to the Quality center test scripts.  • Validate the result with DB2 database and Mainframe Legacy screens.  • Created defects to keep track of issues or software bugs which breaks the functionality or doesn't meet the requirements.  • Involved in retesting the fixed defects and keep track of defects through defect life cycle.  • Verification of system test results and follow-up with the developer who coded the module.  • Solid communication established at all stages of the Agile methodology and environment of the project. This included team working with the product owner, scrum master and QA tester team to prioritize user stories using a risk analysis approach and organized our sprint developments through review meetings.  • Created and executed software Test plans, Strategies, data characteristics, cases and scripts to uncover, identify and document defect tracking matrix.  • Experience in critical analysis to use cases to converted them into end-to-end tests cases in order to cover all the new features.  • Extensively utilized HP Quality Center and JIRA to map requirements to test cases, execute test suites and bug-track defects to developers along with writing brief reports about the progress of the project.  • Conducted formal and informal product design reviews throughout the software development lifecycle to provide input on functional requirements, product designs, schedules and potential issues.  • Delivered final summary analysis of testing efforts prior to release of application to production, and smoke tested product after release to production. Software Developer TCS August 2012 to December 2013 Serve as a key member of software development team as the programmer on development projects for Accounting Transaction History project.  Roles and Responsibilities:    • Involved in requirement analysis & Client interaction.  • Worked closely with Business Analysts, Project Managers and Project Leaders to analyze business requirements and Architecture design.  • Developed the web application using Spring MVC Framework by implementing controller and backend service classes.  • Used J2EE design patterns like Factory, Singleton.  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) as requirement gathering, modelling, analysis, architecture design and development.  • Created graphical user interfaces (GUIs) front-end using JSP, JavaScript, JQuery & HTML.  • Creation of technical specifications, coding, unit and system integration testing for the enhancements and conducted reviews with users.  • Extensively used various collection classes like Array List, Hash Map, Hash Table, Hash Set.  • Developed the Use case, Sequence and Class diagrams using UML/Rational Rose.  • Consumed Web Services by implementing Spring's REST support to make the development of RESTful Web services.  • Implemented JMS, JNDI for notifications  • Extensively used JUnit, Mock framework in all the modules for unit testing  • Extensively used Log4j and Slf4j for debugging during development.  • Used Web logic Application Server that implements the Java Platform, Enterprise Edition (Java EE).  • Involved in writing basic SQL queries.  • Responsible for Writing Hibernate-mapping XML Files, HQL. Software Developer TCS March 2012 to July 2012 Serve as a key member of software development team as the programmer on development projects for Extended Transaction History project.  Roles and Responsibilities:    • Involved in requirement analysis & Client interaction.  • Involved in all life cycle phases of this web application.  • Implementing Design patterns using Spring MVC architecture for developing Presentation tier.  • Developed the front end of the application using JSP pages.  • Involved in adding the new features to the existing system based on the requirements using java.  • Involved in writing the spring action servlets and configuration files.  • Implemented the business layer using Spring framework.  • Implemented the DAO layer using Hibernate. Used Hibernate Persistence Strategy to interact with database.  • Developed web services in java with Soap web services.  • Used JAXB for Marshalling and Unmarshalling.  • Involved in writing Hibernate mapping configuration files for POJO's.  • Involved in validating the various fields in the screen by using Spring validation framework.  • Involved in the bug fixing of the existing modules.  • Developed JUnit Test Cases and subsequently performed Unit Testing of the various modules.  • Wrote the request mappings and screen definitions for the application.  • Used Eclipse IDE for the development and used Subversion for source code control.  • Worked closely with Business Analysts, Project Managers and Project Leaders to analyze business requirements and Architecture design.  • Developed the web application using Spring MVC Framework by implementing controller and backend service classes.  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) as requirement gathering, modelling, analysis, architecture design and development.  • Creation of technical specifications, coding, unit and system integration testing for the enhancements and conducted reviews with users.  • Developed the Use case, Sequence and Class diagrams using UML/Rational Rose.  • Consumed Web Services by implementing Spring's REST support to make the development of RESTful Web services.  • Extensively used JUnit, Mock framework in all the modules for unit testing  • Extensively used Log4j and Slf4j for debugging during development.  Involved in writing basic SQL queries. Software Developer TCS May 2011 to February 2012 Serve as a key member of software development team as the programmer on development projects for Customer Relationship Management project.  Roles and Responsibilities:    • Involved in requirement analysis & Client interaction.  • Involved in all life cycle phases of this web application.  • Implementing Design patterns using Struts framework architecture for developing Presentation tier.  • Developed the front end of the application using JSP pages.  • Involved in adding the new features to the existing system based on the requirements using java.  • Implemented the DAO layer using Ibatis to interact with database.  • Involved in the bug fixing of the existing modules.  • Developed JUnit Test Cases and subsequently performed Unit Testing of the various modules.  • Used Eclipse IDE for the development and used Subversion for source code control.  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) as requirement gathering, modelling, analysis, architecture design and development.  • Consumed Web Services by implementing Spring's REST support to make the development of RESTful Web services.  • Extensively used JUnit, Mock framework in all the modules for unit testing Education Bachelor's Skills Application server, Cucumber, Html, Javascript, Message queue, Eclipse, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, jquery, Jsp, Servlets, Jira, Selenium, Sql, Tomcat, Web services, Weblogic, Websphere, Soap, Java J2Ee, MVC, Spring Additional Information Technology Skills  ? Programming Language: Java  ? Frameworks: J2EE, spring, Hibernate, Web Services, Maven, Log4J, Mock, Message Queue, Cloud Pivotal Framework  ? Web Technologies: HTML, JSP, Servlets, Javascript, Web services, jquery, React, Node JS  ? Test Automation Tools: Cucumber with Java and JAVA-Selenium.  ? Web Services: Soap Ui Pro  ? Test Management Tools: HP ALM 12.x  ? Test Data: SQL Developer, Squirrel  ? Defect Tracking Tools: HP ALM 12.x, Atlassian JIRA  ? Operating System: Windows XP /Windows 7, Linux  ? Domain Knowledge: Banking & Finance.  ? IDE: Eclipse, Intellij Ultimate  ? Application Servers: WebSphere Application Server 7, Apache Tomcat, WebLogic