Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer - S.No • Software professional with 5years and 5 months experience in end-to-end application development including 6 months build and deployment activities using Jenkins.  • Having complete knowledge in Software Development Life Cycle and Agile methodologies.  • Proficient with Java, J2EE and Web Technologies.  • Requirement analysis and clarification in close coordination with business analysts and architecture managers in offshore/ onsite model.  • Supporting testing teams by resolving Informational/ Technical issues on priority basis.  • Hands on experience on multiple IDEs, Software version control systems, Defect tracking tools.  • Experience in preparation of technical specification documents, unit test case documents, and warranty documents.  • Experience on working individually on piece of requirement throughout the software life cycle by adhering to metrics, time reports and tracking tools. Work Experience Software Developer S.No April 2017 to Present Organization Role Designation From To  1 CGI Information Systems Software Developer Software Engineer April- 2017 Till Date Software Developer Cigna April 2017 to Present Team size 25    Project description:  Cigna is an American worldwide health services organization. Its insurance subsidiaries are major providers of medical, dental, disability, life and accident insurance and related products and services, the majority of which are offered through employers and other groups (e.g. governmental and non-governmental organizations, unions and associations). Cigna also offers Medicare and Medicaid products and health, life and accident insurance coverage primarily to individuals in the U.S. and selected international markets.  OneView application is one stop for all customer related queries which is used by Customer Service Agents to provide clarifications or information required by customers. For instance, the queries may relate to Benefits, Claims, PCP information or tracking an existing request, etc. This application loads or retrieves data from multiple databases to feed UI. It supports various types of members including Medical, Dental, Facets, etc. It facilitates user to login with different permission which include Medical login, Dental login, Appeals processor, Administrator etc.    Roles and Responsibilities:  • Follow the strict deadlines and deliver the code as per the Sprint planning.  • Analyze FDD and raise the queries in Rally under discussions to get clarifications.  • Build UI based on the markups and integrate with Portal code.  • Implementation of new services and integrating with Portal.  • Have close coordination with QA and SA to do not deviate the expected outcomes.  • Attend standup calls and make sure to not have any blockers for rest of the day.  • Fix the defects in the stipulated timelines to have smooth demo of the sprint deliverables.  • Configure Jenkins builds as per release requirements to deploy on the approved environments.  • Maintenance of Jenkins automated jobs to achieve build and deployment activities starting from DEV through PROD regions.  • Create and Manage GIT repository and branches  • Coordinate among development, testing, hosting and management teams to resolve issues related to build and deployments.  • Maintenance and monitoring of Sonar jobs.    Project #2 Details   Name FTS_Insight Software Developer GPS_Insight March 2016 to April 2017 Team size 7    Project description:  FTS_Insight is a fleet tracking system by using GPS device for each vehicle that user has and a computer aided software so that information about the vehicle can be shown on an electronic map. With the FTS_Insight and GPS device threat of stealing of the vehicle will be reduced. Different users of a fleet can have the complete information about the vehicle's movement. Total fleet maintenance is under control of software. Geo fencing allocates for each vehicle so that, if a vehicle crossing its fence then immediately owner and managing users can get alerts. In an emergency alerts as SMS will be sent to the authentic users. Owner let know about the vehicle efficiency time to time on the go. With the help of FTS_Insight a user could able to know about the vehicle information, current position and status of the vehicle, travelled history of the vehicle, different forms of reports generated, vehicle speed, idle time, service remainder alerts etc alert will be generated.  Roles and Responsibilities:  • Analyzing requirements and designing technical specification document for the Java application programming interfaces.  • Worked on report generations and user maintenance modules.  • Understanding the requirements and analyzing to implement.  • Client side scripting using JavaScript.  • Developed spring annotation based controller classes.  • Involved in developing for DAOs and Services.  • Mapping the java entity classes with tables by using ORM Framework.  • Object creation and injection is done using Spring IOC mechanism.    Project #3 Details Software Developer DhatriInfo Solutions Pvt.Ltd December 2013 to April 2017 Technical Skills:  S.No. Domain Technologies/ Tools worked on 1 Programming languages Java, C  2 Data bases MySQL, DB2  3 Frameworks Spring, Hibernate, JSF, Web Services and JUnit  4 Web technologies HTML, JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS, CSS and JSP  5 Operating Systems Windows XP, Windows 7  6 Software Change Manager GIT, SVN  7 IDEs NetBeans, Eclipse, myEclipse, IBM - RAD  8 Defect tracking tools Agile Central, JIRA, HP - ALM Software Developer ezEMRx Heath Care System June 2014 to March 2015 Team size 4    Project description:  This web application Product deals with the designing & execution for the complete maintenance of the Heath Care of a Hospital organization. Modules were designed for various departments & processes such as Consultant, Front desk, Office Manager, Nurse, System Admin, Super Admin details etc. It also involved reports generation for the same.    Roles and Responsibilities:  • Worked on Consultant Schedule, Patient Appointment, and Report generation of Patient Appointment.  • Worked on the Payment Receipt of Patient and Report Generation of Patient Payment Details.  • Worked on the Session Management of all Login and Logout User details.  • Worked on the Unlock User, When user attempt to login more than three times.  • Interacting with client in requirements gathering and analysis.  • Requirement analysis and code analysis for the given functionalities.  • Involved in developing for DAOs, Services and Controllers.    Project #4 Details  Name e-GURUKUL Software Developer e-GURUKUL February 2013 to April 2014 Team size 4    Project description:    The product e-GURUKUL is an application customized for use by an Educational Institute. Its functions involve maintaining huge records & data which is very user friendly & can be frequently updated. It can also be used for easy report generation. It was used to maintain records of students & lectures, attendance, timetable, mark sheets, department stock, etc in an efficient way.    Roles and Responsibilities:  • Involved in gathering requirements.  • Designed the master page & the database for the application.  • Developed control and business logics.  • Worked on the detailing of Purchase and Stock Maintenance of the items.  • Worked on the report generation for bill, purchase details & transaction details.  • Integrated the project and unit testing.  • Involved in Developing CRUD operations. IBM 2011 to 2012 - security scan 9.1, Cigital - Security Scan  12 UML Design tool Visio, Gliffy  13 Build Management tools Ant, Maven  14 Other Tools Jenkins, Putty, Ultra Edit, PathWAI, Cygwin, Rally, SonarQube    Project Summary:  Project #1 Details   Name OneView HP-Service Manager, HP - Self Service Service Management 2010 to 2010 Application Servers Apache - Tomcat, IBM -WAS Education B.Tech Narsimha Reddy Engineering College