Full Stack Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Developer - ThemeSoft Inc Over 7+ years of software development experience spanning ASP.NET 1.1 to ASP.NET 4.6 in C# including high transactional enterprise applications. Expert in full System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and Agile development.  Has the ability to understand and transform complex business requirements into software, ensuring applications are delivered on time, to specification, are scalable, performance optimized and maintainable.    Experience of non-Microsoft .NET technologies including JQuery, GIT, and Typescript.    A highly-motivated individual who is always learning, able to work to tight deadlines, and who can communicate effectively with technical peers. Someone who encourages learning and the sharing of ideas and is always open to new ways of working. Work Experience Full Stack Developer ThemeSoft Inc April 2019 to Present Involved in the complete Software Development Life Cycle including Analysis, Design, Implementation, Testing and Maintenance.  ? Designed and implemented Rest API and data modeling for new feature in an application.  ? Improved the application quality by creating Unit Test.  ? Collaborate closely with other team members to plan, design and develop solutions.  ? Prototyped new capabilities to confirm feasibility  ? Creating a component using React.Js and Redux.  ? Technologies used are .Net 4.6 (C#), MVC, Rest API, Azure, Typescript & React Js. Full Stack Developer Collabera Inc March 2018 to March 2019 Involved in the complete Software Development Life Cycle including Analysis, Design, Implementation, Testing and Maintenance.  ? Designed and implemented Rest API and data modeling for new feature in an application.  ? Improved the application quality by creating Unit Test and Integration Test.  ? Collaborate closely with other team members to plan, design and develop solutions.  ? Prototyped new capabilities to confirm feasibility.  ? Worked on Azure Blobs, Queues, Event hubs and Service bus  ? Implemented CRUD operation for Document Db.  ? Technologies used are .Net 4.6 (C#), MVC, Rest API, Azure, Typescript & Document Db. Software Engineer CSI Interfusion Inc 2016 to September 2017 o Design and implemented the application like UBER and Open Table for Cortana with Core and application specific has resulted in reducing the code redundancy by 45% and improved the code maintainability and achieved 100% in unit test coverage for business logic.  ? Designed and implemented Rest API and data modeling for new feature in an application.  ? Improved the application quality by creating Unit Test and Integration Test.  ? Collaborate closely with other team members to plan, design and develop solutions.  ? Prototyped new capabilities to confirm feasibility.  ? Writing and maintaining documentations.  ? Technologies used are .Net 4.6 (C#), MVC, Rest API, JQuery, Azure, Typescript & Knockout JS. Software Developer Posh Technologies 2015 to 2016 Involved in the complete Software Development Life Cycle including Analysis, Design, Implementation, Testing and Maintenance.  ? Designed and implemented Rest API and data modeling for new feature in an application.  ? Worked on entity framework for communicating with database in a structured manner.  ? Involved in both front-end and back-end development.  ? Utilized entity framework technology extensively for data retrieving, querying, storage and manipulation using LINQ.  ? Involved in implementing Azure worker roles.  ? Implemented application email system using Amazon AWS.  ? Technologies used are .Net 4.6 (C#), MVC, Rest API, Entity framework, jQuery, SQL Server, Azure. Software Developer VKC Software Solutions 2005 to 2008 Designed and developed the web application in ASP.NET, C#.  ? Designed tables in back end database in SQL server.  ? Involved in designing Front-end User Interface screens in ASP.Net  ? Involved in coding of modules to meet the generated functional requirements using C#.  ? Documentation and creating help systems.  ? Devised and designed various management reports.  ? Involved in fixing bugs by debugging the applications.  ? Involved in functionality testing of the system. Junior Software Developer VKC Software Solutions 2004 to 2005 Involved in writing stored procedure and functions for retrieving & persisting data in the database.  ? Used ADO.Net objects to fetch and handle user data.  ? Documentation and creating help systems.  ? Devised and designed various management reports.  ? Involved in fixing bugs by debugging the applications.    Certifications Accomplished  • Microsoft Certified Professional Solution Developer- MCSD  • DSET (Diploma in Software Exports Technology)  Dot Net Technologies, NIIT Education Master of Information Technology in Information Technology University of Madras Master of Business Administration in Business Administration Indira Gandhi Open University Skills LIFE CYCLE, SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT LIFE CYCLE, MVC, SDLC, .NET, Node, React, Javascript