Full Stack Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer Cumming, GA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Full Stack Developer TechClass oy - Helsinki January 2018 to Present Collaborate with back-end team as developer and system designer in an agile environment:  • Provide external user registration service for improvement of user experience during registration.  • Provide file storage management service with Microsoft Azure.  • Redesign the Database schema for performance and efficiency improvement.  • Technology : .Net Core, EF core, MSSQL    Contribute to the front-end as a developer:  • Implement easy registration forms with external user authentication to improve registration steps.  • Technology : React Software Developer SFI Group - Tehran, Iran April 2015 to September 2016 Design and implement a multiplatform (web, desktop) integrated customized production management software.  • Provide a quality control feature to optimize QC inspector's reports collection and analysis.  • Provide a production scheduling feature to optimize company resource management.  • Optimize Data Quarries in order to reduce the network traffic.  • Technology: C#, ASP.net, MS SQL Software Developer MABNA CO - Tehran, Iran February 2011 to April 2015 Design and implement an intelligent PLC software (using ANN) as bioreactors controlling system.  • Implement process model.  • Design and implement database and queries.  • Design and implement a windows form application.  • Design and implement electrical interfaces and controllers.  • Technology: C#, MATLAB, MS SQL Education Master of engineering in Environmental engineering Azad University - Tehr?n 2011 B.Eng in Environmental Engineering Azad University - Tehr?n 2005 to 2008 Skills MATLAB (6 years), C# (7 years), MS SQL Server (6 years), Angular (2 years), Javascript (2 years), Java (3 years), Reactjs (Less than 1 year), PHP (2 years), HTML5, Front End, NET Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/ArdavanSassani Military Service Branch: Infantry Service Country: Iran Rank: Sergeant October 2003 to June 2005 Awards Tuition Discounting 2006-01 First place in entrance exam Tuition Discounting 2008-09 Second place in entrance exam Certifications/Licenses MCSE August 2002 to Present Machine learning February 2018 to Present Coursera on-line course from University of Princeton Publications • Optimization of the moving-bed biofilm sequencing batch reactor (MBSBR) to control aeration time by kinetic computational modeling: Simulated sugar-industry wastewater treatment http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0960852416301808 2016-05 • A novel Municipal Wastewater Treatment Cost Optimization approach in Completely Mixed Activated Sludge and Moving Bed Biofilm Reactor Using Artificial Neural Networks and Kinetic Bio-modeling