Sr. .NET Developer Sr. .NET <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. .NET Developer - Bank of America Pleasanton, CA • Accomplished IT professional with 7+ years of professional experience in developing Web based Client/Server software applications. Professional experience spans in developing Intranet/Internet and Client Server applications using C#.Net, SharePoint, ASP.NET MVC, WCF, Java Script, jQuery, Angular Js, WPF & MS SQL Server.  • Experience with all phases of SDLC in the Waterfall model and Agile (SCRUM) methodologies.  • Experience in developing N-tier web applications using Visual Studio 2008/2010/2012/2013, C#, ASP.Net, WCF, Web API, XML, SOAP, VB.net, SOA Web Services(WSDL), Web Forms, Win Forms, Microsoft .Net Frameworks.  • Proficient in Web Programming to enhance user experience and performance using JavaScript, j Query, Angular.js, AJAX, AJAX Toolkit and CSS.  • Experience in developing applications using ASP.Net MVC 5/4/3 Framework, C#, HTML5, CSS 3.0, JavaScript and Entity Framework.  • Expertise in developing and deploying custom Web parts, Workflows, Features, Site Content Types, Lists and Libraries, style sheets and site definitions using WSS, SharePoint Object Model and Visual Studio on multiple web applications.  • Experience in using LINQ (LINQ to SQL, LINQ to XML), ADO.NET, Entity Framework 4.0/5.0/6.0 and T-SQL in developing Data Access Layer.  • Strong working experience in managing Security policies including Authentication, Authorization, Identity, Encryption, Personalization, Membership, Roles, Profiles and Resource Access Control.  • Professional Software developer with a strong background in the field of computer science, data science, information retrieval and document development.  • Familiar with JavaScript libraries like Bootstrap templates and Angular.js framework.  • Experience with Entity Framework approaches such as code-first and database-first.  • Experience in creating Server objects like Tables, Stored Procedures, Views, Indexes, Triggers, Cursors, user defined data types and functions.  • Experience in creating T-SQL/PL-SQL, stored procedures, functions, tables, views and SQL joins and other statements for various applications, maintained referential integrity and implemented business logic.  • Proficiency with Object Oriented Principles, Concepts and Best Practices.  • Motivated achiever with ability to guide, provide added values, create project deliverables in a timely manner.  • Good team player capable of handling the toughest situations with utmost ease.  • Possess extensive skills in front-end programming and good database design skills having proficiency with N-tier Application design, Architecture, Development, Testing, and Maintenance.  • Applying best design patterns such as n-tier, MVVM, Repository, and Singleton for designing key reusable components.  • StyleCop, FxCop and Code Friskers tool for improve code quality.  • Strong interpersonal skills, adaptable in delivery, with a proven ability to devise and implement innovative, requirement analysis and Development. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. .NET Developer Bank of America - Charlotte, NC June 2017 to Present Responsible for working on a range of project, designing appealing websites and interacting on a daily basis with designers, back-end developers and Data Team. Responsible for participating in the full life cycle of the website development projects, and for implement and maintaining best practice procedures in all areas of work.    Responsibilities:  • Implemented both web and windows client/server based applications.  • Involved in various levels of the development life cycle by Gathering Requirements, Analyzing, Design and Development.  • Implemented business logic using C#.  • Implemented various features like Partial classes, Anonymous types, Read-Only Properties, polymorphism and inheritance of C# in building data entity PMO model.  • Designing WCF with Service oriented architecture to support Distributed computing where services consumed by end-user.  • Designed, modeled and architected multi-threaded, enterprise n-tier software agent using Windows Communication Foundation (WCF) service hosted in a Windows service to support Distributed computing.  • Extensively used Angular JS for DOM traversing and manipulation  • Leveraged Angular JS for scripting, AJAX calls and JSON and XML for passing objects from Controller to View and vice versa.  • Managed online content, performed editing and proofread all content. Developed, maintained and evaluated content for website.  • Analyzed web content summarized it and documented results for website users.  • Involved in migration of existing modules of the web application from physical deployment to AWS. Also designed, built and deployed the new modules utilizing the AWS stack.  • Used AJAX.NET to use various controls for presentation layer.  • Used Entity Framework to perform CRUD operations on the SQL Server 2008 through 2015 database.  • Used LINQ queries to retrieve data from Arrays, Collections and Generics.  • Coded and created Stored Procedures for performing repetitive tasks in updating related tables using SQL Server database.  • Used Mongo DB for NOSQL queries.  • Worked extensively on Client Side Validation using Java Script, jQuery  • Extensive use of XML features of T-SQL for maintaining xml data based on XPath queries. Reading XML documents and storing data in the relational database using various methods.  • Used jQuery to develop a modular approach that allows the creation of powerful and dynamic web pages and web applications.  • Applied Cascading Style sheets (CSS) to the pages.  • Implemented Master page to allow centralize the common functionality of the pages, so that we can make updates in just one place.  • Developed Custom User Controls to reduce the Complexity in User Interface Coding and provide better look and feel using the third party DevExpress library  • Understand the work flow of the (SOA) application and make the changes in application pages to incorporate the editing.  • Used ASP.NET MVC 4.0 for building scalable standards-based web applications  • Responsible for interaction with the client in collecting the requirements.  • Performed unit testing, fixing bugs and maintenance of the product.  • Used TFS2013 for source code management, automated builds, PMO testing and release management capabilities.  • Worked with Agile Methodologies to segregate the development tasks into various sprints  • Worked on routing to load controller type using MVC 5.0 Web APIs for reaching appropriate action in the web application.  • Used MVC 5.0 Razor-View Engine for re-using the individual user controls by not coupling them with underlying data elements.  • Used ASP.NET MVC framework to support the use of Dependency Injection to inject objects into a class, instead of relying on the class to create the object itself.  • Created CSS3 background, Layouts, Positioning and Text, Border, Padding, Pseudo Classes, Elements, Behaviors and constants for reusability.  • Created Forms Based Authentication to enforce security into the application and implemented Role Based security to control user access.  • Implementing the data access layer using Entity Framework and writing queries using LINQ to Entity for data retrieval.  • Developed and consumed WCF Services to achieve Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) and communication between heterogeneous applications both synchronously and asynchronously.  • Utilized TFS as a Source control for branching and merging.  • Performed builds across different environments using Team City for continuous integration.  • Involved in integrating different modules and deploying to development, pre-production and production servers.  • Performed unit testing and also the complete system integration testing.  • Worked on Production Support tickets by finding the issues and fixing them with SSIS.  Technologies: Agile , SCRUM, Net Frame Work 4.5, NoSql, Mongo DB, MS Visual Studio .Net 2013, C#, MVC 5.0, ASP .NET, ADO.Net, SQL Server 2012, SSRS , CSS3, XML, JQuery , JavaScript, AngularJS, Windows Servers 2008, VSS, Ajax Toolkit Controls, VBScript, Web Services, SOAP/REST/WSDL/ WCF, WPF, HTML5.. Senior Software Developer TechMileage - Scottsdale, AZ October 2015 to May 2017 Meal Manage is a project designed for schools in Arizona to manage the daily meals for students and to control the food wastage. According to a Guardian Report, roughly 50 percent of all produce in the United States is thrown away, some 60 million tons (or $160 billion) worth of produce annually. While research has shown that food wasted by children is similar to the rest of the U.S. population, there are many ways schools can reduce food waste. Meal Manage project allows students, parents and even teachers to schedule the students' school campus meals ahead of time from a selection of different choices. It also shows the Kitchen-view where School management and kitchen staff can see the meal demand for the day, forecast for the week and month.    Responsibilities  • Responsible for Analyzing, designing, developing, review, testing, coordinating and deploying Meal Manage API and web application.  • Understanding business requirements by interacting with AZ school board associates.  • Responsible for designing the User Interface by coding in CSS3, AngularJS and Bootstrap to build the application.  • Designed and developed different modules by using Spring Boot and Spring Data Rest etc.  • Experienced in implementing Organization DevOps strategy in various operating environments of Linux and windows servers along with cloud strategies of Amazon Web Services.  • Implemented Restful web services using Spring Data REST.  • Implemented Test cases using JUnit and Tested RESTful web services with REST Client- Postman.  • Automation of script to build and deploy using Jenkins.  • Used GIT version control system for code check in and check out.  • Used Log4j for development and run time debugging of the application.  • Worked on Unix and shell scripts  • Used MySQL for database.  Technologies: Java 1.8, J2EE, Spring Boot, RESTful, AWS EC2, HATEOAS JSON, MySQL, STS, GIT, AngularJS, NodeJS, Bootstrap, CSS3, Jenkins, Tomcat , Log4J, Junit, Win Merge, Putty, Unix and shell scripts. Software Developer Data Research Service October 2013 to September 2015 Examiner management is a key constituent of the ESOL (English for Speakers of Other Languages) modernization program and the importance of examiner management can be gauged from the fact that Cambridge ESOL interacts (directly or indirectly) over 20,000 examiners in over 1,500 centres world-wide.  The project concentrates on managing the examiners registered in ESOL as well as all the centre's associated with the Cambridge University.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in Requirement analysis and development of the application.  • The delivery is based on Test driven using n-unit test cases and will be validated at the end of development.  • Worked on Cascading Style Sheets and XML-Schemas.  • Developed WebForms using C#, ASP.NET, MVC (Razor), jQuery, WCF and SQL.  • Used AJAX and JSON in WebForms.  • Created Custom WCF (Contract first service) for tuning performance.  • Designing security for WCF service endpoints.  • Designing of WCF based Service, Data, Fault and Message Contracts. Hosted the WCF based service on IIS 7.5.  • Written stored procedures, Triggers, Views in SQL.  • Implemented Singleton Pattern for reducing application memory.  • Worked extensively in fixing bugs and change requests.  • Maintaining all the metrics and following all the quality standards.  Technologies: .Net Framework 3.5, MVC 3.0, C#, WCF, MS SQL Server 2008, AJAX, JQuery Software Developer MISTRA - ZA January 2012 to September 2013 MISTRA (Mapungubwe Institute for Strategic Reflection) is an Institute focusing on research projects that have a long-term perspective and high-level intellectual engagement. The Institute founded by a group of South Africans with experience in research, academia, policy-making and governance who saw the need to create a platform of engagement around strategic issues facing South Africa.    Responsibilities  • Involved in Requirement analysis and development of the application  • Trouble shooting technical issues and provide solution  • Worked extensively in fixing bugs and change requests.  • Developed custom Data view Web parts, Event Receiver, List view Web parts to display the results on the SharePoint portal using visual studio 2008 and c#.  • Used InfoPath Form services to convert forms into web-based forms to allow users to easily fill out form data within the SharePoint form library.  • Maintaining all the metrics and following all the quality standards  Technologies: SharePoint 2010, C#, CAML, JavaScript, CSS, IIS Software Developer Thabo Mbeki Foundation Website - ZA September 2010 to December 2011 The Thabo Mbeki Foundation is a not-for-profit organization established in 2008 upon Mr. Mbeki's retirement as the President of the Republic of South Africa, to support his continuing efforts at promoting the achievement of Africa's Renaissance. The website includes the key website features like create and publishes News/ Articles, Emailing the composed weekly News/Articles to the registered users, Photo gallery, and Video gallery, Speeches and scrolling news feed.    Responsibilities  • Involved in documentation for requirement.  • Involved in entry screen using SharePoint designer data view Webpart.  • Created custom SharePoint sites, sub sites, Document Libraries, Lists and List views to collaborate the affiliates using visual studio.  • Customized Publishing pages with workflows in SharePoint Designer.  • Created customized namespace for Webparts.  • Web designing using Customized Web Parts.  • Involved in analysis and design of UI changes.  • Involved in execution of test cases for unit testing.  Technologies: SharePoint 2010, C#, CAML, JavaScript, CSS, IIS Education MCA Sri Shakthi Institute of Engineering College Skills .NET (6 years), C# (6 years), IIS (5 years), INTERNET INFORMATION SERVICES (5 years), VISUAL STUDIO (4 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:    Languages C#.NET  Web Technologies ASP.NET 4.5, MVC 3, WCF, jQuery, SharePoint 2010/2012, LINQ. Angular JS  Database SQL Server 2008/2012/2014, Oracle 11g/12c  Web Servers IIS  Tools MS VISUAL STUDIO 2010  Version Control Tortoise SVN and TFS