Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer - Real-Time Solutions Corp Houston, TX • 5+ years of experience with Python, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX and JSON.  • Experience in using Python to retrieve and manipulate SQL database information  • Experience in using Python to gather information on end-user web-related activity via web-scraping  • Experience in using React.JS, Node.JS, Flux, Common.JS, Babel+ES6, Web-Pack for SPA development.  • Experience on developing Responsive Web Design using Photoshop and Illustrator and responsive  • layouts.  • Good knowledge on UX Design, EXT JS, Require JS and React JS.  • Skilled and efficient in developing responsive web application using CSS3, Bootstrap, LESS and SASS.  • Proficient with JavaScript and JavaScript libraries.  • Developed server-side JavaScript using Node JS.  • Experience on Node environment using Node.js, npm, Grunt, Gulp, Bower.  • Hands on experience using the version controls like SVN and GIT.  • Experience with Cross Browser Compatibility issues and Optimization for web, including CSS Sprites and best practices.  • Extensive experience on MVC frameworks like Angular JS for creating Single-Page Applications (SPA) using concepts like Dependency Injection, Promises, Services, Scope, Controllers and Directives.  • Excellent experience in developing web applications complying with Web Content Accessibility Guidelines  • (WCAG) and ability to apply W3C web standards.  • Good Web Application debugging skills using Chrome Developers Tool  • Experience in all phase of SDLC like Requirement Analysis, Implementation and Maintenance, and  extensive experience with Agile and SCRUM.  • Possess good experience on IDE tools like IntelliJ, Web Storm, Notepad++, Sublime Text, Brackets and Eclipse.  • Good knowledge in finding out the bugs in the application and used debug tools for eliminating the frontend code issues.  • Experience in using the graphical tools with advanced visual design skills to produce pixel perfect  mockups and design the most eye-catching web site, mobile application, email template based on the user experience. Work Experience Software Developer Real-Time Solutions Corp - Austin, TX January 2016 to Present • Created Python scripts to automate creation of boilerplate web applications  • Used Python scripting to automate compilation protocols.  • Created Python application to write images from a folder to an HTML template file.  • Programmed all aspects of the site using JavaScript libraries  • Created interactive web applications via ReactJS  • Used Bootstrap boilerplates to create responsive HTML webpages  • Used SCSS to adjust positioning and style of elements on web application  • Used GulpJS along with NodeJS to compile, minify, and export JS, CSS, and HTML code  • Formatted and tailored all aspects of the web application according to manager's specifications  • Kept track of milestones and completed requested features efficiently and professionally  • Developed UI on mobile web platform using JavaScript, HTML, CSS and JSON.  • Developing web app which is built around HTML, CSS and jQuery.  • Participate in project planning and client discussion.  • Implement CSS3 style sheets for reset, placement of page elements and styling  • Responsive web design implementation (RWD) of CSS3 media queries.  • Participated in project planning and client discussion.  • Search Engine Optimization and web application testing for cross platform compatibility.  • Implemented Angular JS Controllers to maintain each view data. Implemented Angular Service calls using Angular Factory.  • Used AJAX and JSON to make asynchronous calls to the project server to fetch data.  • Worked within AGILE team environment and participated in multiple scrum meetings to discuss planning and development needs for current cycle.  • Closely interacted with QA and Backend Teams.  • Used Web based GIT repository Manager. Software Developer Hewlett Packard - Houston, TX July 2014 to November 2015 • Created web application in Python for internal employee onboard operation  • Used Python to automate security measures essential to accessing confidential company infrastructure  • Wrote Python algorithm to generate webform, used HTTP_GET protocol to gather input information, and added information to MySQL database  • Used Python scripting protocols to automate the setup and operation of test servers  • Developed web application for onboarding new employees using ReactJS and NodeJS  • Set up testing server environments, loaded operating systems onto test servers, and configured test servers according to manager specifications  • Created Front-End Templates in Handlebars JS and used all its features.  • Developed the application for responsiveness to different screen resolutions using Bootstrap and CSS media queries.  • Worked with GitLab.  • Responsible in design and development of web applications using the latest technologies like Backbone JS, HTML5 and CSS3 also involved in Unit testing.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with API's, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Used Bootstrap grid system for responsiveness.  • Installed and Managed Grunt using NPM.  • Used Grunt for managing UI module dependencies. Software Developer American Achievement Corporation - Austin, TX April 2014 to June 2014 • Programmed database script in Python to increase insert frequency (from over 1 hour to 15 minutes) for an internal customer orders database  • Migrated database application to SquirrelSQL for all IT employees of the company  • Refactored vanilla JavaScript code to create ReactJS web application for customer  • Worked with a team on backend web app development using Python to gather information from DB2 server and post customer purchase history on web application  • Debugged Angular, Node, ReactJS code to solve minor problems like error handling/element positioning on web application  • Used Jira management system to set benchmarks and provide daily updates on progress  • Analyzed business requirements, participated in technical design, development and testing of various modules assigned.  • Involved in creating UI for facility users to report facility status using HTML, CSS, JavaScript.  • Used Backbone JS to make the HTML and CSS code interact with the JavaScript functions to add dynamism to the web applications at the client side.  • Used date-format and moment packages in Node Js to save the timestamp in database converting into UTC.  • I used to assist and developing a prototype for a web application using BackboneJS.  • Involved in creating Unit tested Backbone JS Components.  • Debugged the web application using Chrome Developer's tools and hardcoded the API into script for getting the information about merchants using Node JS.  • Actively Participated in Team Meetings, frequently communicated with Business Analysts to clarify the business requirements.  • Worked with Agile software lifecycle methodologies. Created design documents, performed coding, debugging Summer Internship at EmpactIT EmpactIT (an EmployerFlexible Company) - Houston, TX July 2013 to August 2013 • Dynamic web site design and programming using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery.  • Developed jQuery-based calendar to schedule appointments.  • Created efficient design and developing User Interaction screens using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery AJAX and JSON.  • Developed interface to display report data using jQuery, AJAX, JavaScript and JSON, XML  • Used various jQuery plugins like auto complete, date picker, color picker, document slider to enhance the usability, functionality and overall experience for web application  • Implemented pagination and sorting functionalities in different modules using jQuery plugins  • Designed the front-end applications, user interactive (UI) web applications using web technologies like HTML, XHTML, and CSS.  • Using advanced level of JQUERY, AJAX, JavaScript, CSS and pure CSS layouts.  • Used Firebug and IE Developer Toolbar for debugging and browser compatibility, cross-browser / platform testing and compatibility assurance  • Using Git for version control.  • Participated in requirement gathering, coordinated with various development teams in code integration. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science The University of Texas at Austin - Austin, TX August 2011 to July 2015 Links http://github.com/smjoseph11