Mulesoft Developer Mulesoft <span class="hl">Developer</span> Mulesoft Developer - Wells Fargo Vancouver, WA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Mulesoft Developer Wells Fargo - Irving, TX May 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Create flows/orchestrations for integrating components like connectors, transformers and scopes.  • Design various types of flows which are integrated with Sales force, Amazon Web Services, Mainframes.  • Investigate and resolve IBM MQ issues by working closely with client and Mulesoft.  • Implemented Data Weave and content-based routing using Mule ESB  • Work on exception handling, testing & Security of Mule ESB endpoint through OAuth  • Create scripts for creating dynamic queries for both database and sales force by using Groovy  • Design and Implemented RESTFUL Web Services using various data format (JSON, XML) to provide an interface to the various third-party applications.    Environment: Mule soft ESB 3.9.x, Agile, Scrum Methodology, Any Point studio 6.x.x, Maven build tool, SOAP, Restful, Sales force, SCM Harvest, JSON, XML, IBM MQ v.9.1, Oracle DB Software Developer JPMC Bank - Columbus, OH January 2014 to April 2017 Responsibilities:  • Working as a full stack developer and involved in development, design and implementation of front end and back end part of the application.  • Worked on Angular JS and spring boot cloud deployment based application.  • Responsible to design and develop the application based on client requirements.  • Responsible to design and develop new clients to communicate with SOAP based web services and handle response from multiple existing applications.  • Worked on automating the KYC Profile application using Cucumber and Selenium Web Driver and written test scripts for end to end automated application testing  • Responsible to design pdf using Adobe LiveCycle based on client requirements.    Environment: J2EE, JSP, Hibernate 3.0, Spring, HTML, CSS, Java Script, Spring boot, STS, Web Services, Log4j, Git, JIRA, JUnit, MS Visio, Oracle 10g Mulesoft Developer Quality Software Services Inc September 2010 to December 2013 Responsibilities:  • Orchestrate full Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) starting from collecting Business specifications, Analysis, Design and Development, Testing and documenting the entire life cycle using various methodologies like Agile, SCRUM, Waterfall and Test-Driven Development.  • Design various types of flows which are integrated with Salesforce, Amazon Web Services, Mainframes.  • Responsible in developing integration workflows using Mule ESB framework and implemented Data Weave and content-based routing using Mule ESB.  • Design and Implemented RESTFUL Web Services using various data format (JSON, XML) to provide an interface to the various third-party applications.  • Done with transformers, exception handling, testing & Security of Mule ESB endpoint through OAuth.  • Responsible in developing integration workflows using Mule ESB framework and implemented Data Weave and content-based routing using Mule ESB.  • Create Mule flows to integrate Data from various sources into Database from Active MQ topics and queues and some transformations were also done at the integration layer.  • Create flows/orchestrations for integrating the components like connectors, transformers and scopes written on top of different internal platforms using Mule ESB for XML to CSV conversion.  • Drive code review meetings to provide analyze and testing support to Business Analyst people.  • Coordinate in all testing phases and worked closely with Performance testing team to create a baseline for the new application.  • Use Cloud Hub connector in the flows to trigger alerts during exceptions and captured the failed records for further recovery.  • Create various documents; business requirements, functional, technical specifications and test cases.  • Developed Middle Tier Using Spring MVC  • Developed Backend Code Using SPRING and Spring Boot framework  • Participated in code review meetings and provided improvements.  • Used Junit and Mockito to test services.    Environment: Mule soft ESB 3.9.x, Agile, Scrum Methodology, Any Point studio 5.3.2, Maven build tool, SOAP, Restful, Sales force, Git, Spring, PCF, JSON, XML. Education Bachelor's Skills Ajax, Security, Tomcat, Web services, Weblogic Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILL    Languages: Java, Java EE, C  Mule: Any Point Studio, Mule EE 3.6+, RAML, Data Weave, Cloud hub, MMC  Web: CSS3, JSF, JSP, HTML5, XML, AJAX, jQuery, JavaScript  Web Services: RESTful, JSON, API, SOAP- API, WSDL - API, HTTP, XML, REST, JERSEY, WS-Security  Web/App Servers: Tomcat, Glassfish, WebSphere, WebLogic  Framework: Spring, Hibernate, JSF, JPA, Hadoop  Databases: MS Access, MySQL, MS SQL Server, Oracle  Design Patterns: Singleton, Facade, Factory, MVC, Data Access Objects, strategy  SDLC: Agile Scrum, Waterfall  Build Tools: Eclipse, NetBeans, Git, Rational Rose, Jenkins, Visual Paradigm, JIRA, Maven, Splunk  Platforms: Windows XP / 7 / 8 / 10