senior MEAN stack developer senior MEAN stack <span class="hl">developer</span> senior MEAN stack developer - Synergies Pvt. Ltd Work Experience senior MEAN stack developer Synergies Pvt. Ltd April 2018 to Present in development teams. My Developer Express.js Present MySQL and Mongo DB meticulousness and attention to detail. I have Total 7.6 years of with HTML and CSS seeks to establish experience in software development. Relevant 5.6 years of experience a career as the MEAN Stack in web developer with Node.js Express MVC framework, MySQL,  Developer. I am very familiar and MongoDB, PHP of various projects.  experienced with Web Application  ? Now I am working as a Node.js developer in Ordergeni  Architecture and have worked with a web developer Infinijewel Synergies Pvt. Ltd - Mumbai, MAHARASHTRA, IN 2017 to April 2018 Navi Mumbai, February  determination is to complete projects  2017 to April 2018. to the highest standard, looking for a  ? I was working as a web developer in Binary web salutation.  suitable position with an ambitious & Mumbai, Maharashtra September 2013 to January 2017.  exciting company.  ? I was working as a Software developer in Sai Technopark Software developer Pvt. Ltd. Bhubaneswar July 2012 to August 2013 in SLB Softech (I) ACADEMIC QUALIFICTION - Odisha, IN January 2011 to July 2012 The following are my best roles which I believe are applicable to the ACADEMIC QUALIFICTION:  position I have applied for:  ? Frontend coding using  ? MCA from IGNOU Bhubaneswar Odisha in 2013, score 63%.  Angular 6.  ? Backend coding using ? CIC & (CS 60: Mathematics Paper) from IGNOU in 2009,  score 67%.  Node.js & Express.js  ? Programming and logical ? Computer Hardware & Networking from (ET & T.) Odisha in Education BA in Economics Utkal University - Odisha, IN 2004 Board of secondary education - Odisha, IN 1997 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS: TECHNOLOGY USED IN PROJECT:  The following are my technical skills. ? Client Side: HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Json.  ? Operating System: Windows ? Server Side: Node.js, Express.js, PHP.  10, Linux. ? Database: MySQL, Mongo DB.  ? Programming Language: C,  C++, C#, Java etc. DUTIES & RESPONSIBILITY:  ? Database: MySQL, Mongo  DB, SQL Server.  ? Building websites using Node.js, PHP based on frameworks.  ? Technology: Node.js, JSP,  ? Back end development and maintenance of websites using  Asp.  Node.js, PHP and MySQL.  ? Web Designing: Angular,  ? Developing compatible User Interface functionality using  JavaScript, jQuery, HTML,  JavaScript, jQuery, Angular 6.  CSS.  ? Developing web sites using MEAN Stack (MongoDB,  ? Server: Tomcat, Xampp.  Express, Angular 6, and Nodejs).  ? Designing: Adobe ? Working with a multi-disciplinary team to convert business  Photoshop, Coral draw.  needs into technical specifications.  ? Animation: 2D 3D ? Time management, Goals orientated Ability to grasp  concepts quickly.  PERSONAL QUALITY:  c PROJECT DETAILS:  ? Highly motivated and  organized.  ? Project Name: Order Genie.  ? Able to explain technical data  Domain Name: http://www.ordergenie.co.in/login  to non-technical colleagues.  Role: Node Js Developer.  ? Have good technical and  Duration: 7 Months  analytic skills.  Description: It is an ERP project, business software system that  ? Experience of training and  allows a company to automate and integrate the majority of its  mentoring junior.  business processes, to share common data and practices across the  ? Critical thinking, analytical  entire enterprise, and to produce and access information in a real-time  creative innovative.  environment. It enables decision-makers to have an enterprise-wide  ? Problem solving, decision  view of the information they need in a timely, reliable and consistent  making intuitive.  fashion.  ? Respectful relationship  building, collaborative.  ? Project Name: Entero ERP.  Domain Name: https://uat.erp.enterodirect.com/login  PERMANENT ADDRESS: Role: Node Js Developer.  Duration: 8 Months.  Description: ERP provides the backbone for an enterprise-  ? AT: Patarapada.  wide information system. At the core of this enterprise software is a  ? PO: Baramundali. central database which draws data from and feeds data into modular  ? VIA: Machhagon.  applications that operate on a common computing platform, thus  ? DIST: Jagatsinghpur. standardizing business processes and data definitions into a unified  ? PINCODE: 754119.  environment. With an ERP system, data need to be entered only  ? CITY: Bhubaneswar. once. Moreover, the system provides consistency and visibility or  ? STATE: Odisha.  transparency across the entire enterprise.