Net Developer Net <span class="hl">Developer</span> Net Developer Omaha, NE • 7+ years of experience in software design and development using Microsoft technologies,  (.Net, C#, VB.net, ASP.net, ADO.net, MVC, Web API etc ) proficient in creating customer centric Windows and Web based applications and deployed in Azure cloud.  • Experience in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) from analysis and design to implementation in .Net technologies and also few migration projects from VB to .NET  • Expertise in development of 3-Tier/ N-Tier Architecture and implementing OOPS paradigm using Waterfall and Agile-Scrum, TDD, Iterative methodologies.  • Working experience in Scrum Agile methodology.  • Experience in creating responsive design applications.  • Expertise in Relational Database design and writing complex Database queries.  • Proven ability to initiate, organize and balance priorities with competing deadlines.  • Experience in Configuring and version controlling with TFS, PVCS.  • Versatile team player as well as independent contributor.  • Ability to conceptualize documented and communicated project ideas and plans.  • Enthusiastic and Quick to learn new applications and tools and willing to take individual responsibilities.    • 3-Tier & N Tier Application Development • Troubleshooting & Performance Monitoring  • Scalable and Secure Database Design • Technical Documentation  • Custom Web & Windows Development • Data Analysis and Migration  • Application Integration • Mapping and Reporting  • Complex Database queries • Single Page Application Development Work Experience Net Developer US RENAL CARE - Nashville, TN January 2017 to December 2017 Responsibilities:  • Designed and Developing the Application using ASP.NET MVC 5, OOPS, ASP.Net, C#, Angular JS, Kendo UI.    • Provide technical support to client on the delivery of solution, escalating issues/concerns of potential impacts across the organization e.g., data architecture, form and report designs, data flow routines, and security designs.  • Developed JSON services for various business modules using Web API 2.0, C#, VS2015.  • Customized Data Tables and High charts into Angular JS Directives.  • Implemented Angular Controllers to maintain each view data.  • Unit Testing using Jasmine framework..  • Responsible for implementing the Client Side Validations using Java Script.  • Developed HTTP Services using WEB API to expose business logic.  • Involved in writing Complex SQL queries, stored procedures and Triggers accessed SQL SERVER database.  • Used Entity Framework 6 ORM tool to interact with the database.  • Written Unit Test cases for controller action methods.  • Follow Test driven development (TDD) process during development.  • Team analyze how much time they got to complete task during the Sprint using Agile Scrum Methodologies.  • Actively involved in deployment process, production server bug fixes and implemented new Change Requests.  • Used Team Foundation Server (TFS) for source and version control.    Environment: .NET Framework 4.5, OOPS, Angular JS, C#, Entity Framework 6, Visual Studio 2013, ADO.NET, HTML, XML, IIS, MS SQL Server 2014, SOAP, Jasmine framework, ASP.NET MVC, JSON, Ajax, SOAP, NUnit, TFS, LINQ, WCF Restful Services, WEB API, Agile. Software Developer TravelZoo February 2015 to December 2016 Responsibilities:  • Designed and Developing the Application using ASP.NET MVC, ASP.Net, C#, OOPS, XML, AngularJS and JavaScript.  • Designed and architected multi-threaded, n-tier software agent using Windows Communication Foundation (WCF) service hosted in a Windows service to support Distributed computing.  • Designed the Web Pages using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Angular JS, XML, JSON and AJAX.  • Responsible for implementing the Client Side Validations using Java Script and JQuery.  • Developed HTTP Services using WEB API to expose business logic.  • Developed Web API's for Task Management Application.  • Worked on Web API to build HTTP Services and WCF Services that return JSON data to the client.  • Implemented Angular Service calls using Angular Factory.  • Implemented Directives to make customized components.  • Integrated the service calls with the UI.  • Implemented Bower to install required JavaScript libraries.  • Written technical documentation and developed workflows for the business functionality.    Environment: ASP.NET MVC, .NET Framework 4.5, C#, Angular JS, Entity Framework 5, Visual Studio 2013, ADO.NET, HTML, XML, IIS7, ORACLE , JSON, SOAP, Jasmine framework, NUnit, TFS, LINQ, WCF REST full Services, WEB API, Agile Scrum Methodologies. Net Developer Salesforce - Indianapolis, IN August 2014 to January 2015 Responsibilities:  • Involved in analyzing Feasibility Study (FS)/Design Document (DD) and prepared estimation for the migration as well as development of some additional functionalities.  • Worked on defects that application users reported and fixed them. This involved debugging and root cause analysis activities.  • Involved in design of the new project in VB.net web application. Also worked on several web and windows service that supports this dealer management system.  • Involved in preparing Code Walkthrough documents from the existing system (Reverse engineering).    • Involved in Defect fixing and tracking the defects.  • Created and executed test cases for the screens based on the functionality.  • Involved in testing the module for Games Conduction and Result Management.  • Deployment of Application on Test and Production Server.    • Involved in raising the production issues and helped developer in solving the issues.    Environment: VB6.0, .Net Framework 2.0, ASP.Net, VB.Net, ADO.Net, Visual Studio.Net 2005, SQL Server 2005, PVCS. Software Developer Patrick Corporation Ltd September 2013 to July 2014 Responsibilities:  • Developed the modules in Visual Studio .Net 2010 using ASP.NET MVC, C#. Net, JavaScript, ADO.NET and SQL Server 2008..  • Designed and Implemented data access layer-using ADO.Net to connect/update/access databases.  • Created Queries, Stored procedures, Triggers and Views to access the database.  • Integrated multi-threading functionality to make asynchronous communication from procedures.  • Generated various reports using SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS) on monthly, quarterly and yearly basis to look at the progress of various agents across the state.  • Created the database and several stored procedures and views were written to access the database.  • Developed Database Triggers to enforce Data integrity and additional Referential Integrity.  • Involved in Unit testing and debugging.    Environment: C#, ADO.NET, .Net Framework 4.0, JavaScript, Visual Studio 2010, MS SQL SERVER 2008, , IIS 7.0, Web forms, Web Services , Scrum. Software Developer Air France, Toulouse January 2013 to September 2013 Responsibilities:  • Developed core functionality with the ASP.NET Web Forms, C#. NET, ADO.NET.  • Created various Web service in SOA Architecture.  • Employed Microsoft Enterprise Library for Data Access, Exception Handling and Logging.  • Involved in writing Complex SQL queries, stored procedures and Triggers accessed SQLSERVER database using ADO.NET.  • Involved in Unit and Integration testing for quality assurance purpose.  • Involved in Application Maintenance for a period of 3 weeks.  • Migrated the application from .Net 2.0 to .Net 4.0.  • Used multi-threading to boost performance and responsiveness of applications.  • Extensively used ADO.Net objects to bind to various server controls.  • Used Rich server controls such as Data Grid, and Data List controls of ASP.NET.  • Used multiple custom controls and user controls all through the application development for rich user interface.  • Developed stored procedures, functions, and views regularly in the development of the application.  • Created and used multiple lookup tables and regular tables as part of Database design.  • Done multiple releases of the application builds in various servers like system testing, regression testing, UAT testing, staging servers and also Production servers. I have also maintained multiple application environments in various servers.    Environment: .Net Framework 4.5, ASP.Net, C#.Net, ADO.Net, Web services, HTML, JavaScript, Visual Studio 2010, MS SQL Server 2008, IIS 6.0. Software Developer JBPS HEALTH June 2012 to January 2013 Responsibilities:  • Developed core functionality with the ASP.NET Web Forms, VB.NET, ADO.NET.  • Involved in development of business logic.  • Involved in preparing Unit Test Cases.  • Involved in designing & developing user interface  • Involved in creating database tables and stored procedures.    • Involved in multiple presentations to clients about the application.  • Involved in designing & implementing the reports.    Environment: .Net Framework 3.5, ASP.Net, VB.Net, ADO.Net, Web services, HTML, JavaScript, Visual Studio 2008, MS SQL Server 2008, Crystal reports Data Coordinator Cibersites India Pvt Ltd January 2008 to September 2010 Cibersites as a company involved in development and support services confer cost savings and maximize application availability, agility, and predictability at lower recurring cost, lower risk of downtime, greater ROI, improve performance and quality.  As a Data Coordinator my job is to help collect and manage data so that it can be used to analyze business functions, productivity and redundancies. My responsibilities is to make sure that the data is collected properly, observing any legal or ethical standards are met, especially for data that involves personal information.    Responsibilities:  • Prepare source data for computer entry by compiling and sorting information; establishing entry priorities.  • Enter data within multiple interface systems with an understanding that accuracy is critical  • Processes customer and account source documents by reviewing data for deficiencies.  • Maintain data entry requirements by following data program techniques and procedures.  • Maintain customer confidence and protect operations by keeping information confidential  Contribute to team effort by accomplishing related results as needed. Education Bachelor of Engineering in Engineering Visvesvaraya Technological University (VTU) Skills .Net (5 years), ASP (5 years), ASP.NET (5 years), MS ASP (5 years), Visual Studio (5 years), WCF, Angular, WPF, C#, MVC Additional Information Technology Skills  IDE Microsoft Visual Studio 2005, 08, 12, 15  .NET Framework 3.0, 3.5, 4.0, 4.5  Programming Languages C#.NET, VB.net.  WEB PROGRAMMING ASP.NET (Web Forms and MVC3/4/5), HTML, XML, XSLT, Java Script, Angular Js, JSON, CSS, AJAX and JQuery.  Middleware Service Oriented Architecture, WCF, REST, Web API, SOAP and Web service.  Database MS-SQL Server 2000/ 2005/2008/2012/2014, Oracle9i  Reporting Tools Crystal Reports  Development Tools PVCS, TFS, Fiddler    Other Skills Jasmine Framework, NUnit, Agile Scrum methodologies, Azure