Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer - Blue Cross Blue Shield San Diego, CA • 6 years of IT experience as Developer and Analyst using SQL SERVER,TERADATA ( V13, V14,V15), ETL tools SSIS, Informatica in various domains like Banking and Insurance domains involving in all SDLC phases like Business Requirements Analysis, Application Design, Data Modeling, Development, Testing and Documentation.  • Experienced in Teradata Database design, implementation and maintenance mainly in large-scale Data Warehouse environments, experience in Teradata RDBMS using Fast Load, Multiload, TPump, Fast Export, Teradata Parallel Transporter and BTEQ Teradata utilities.  • Extensive experience on SQL programming and complex stored procedure development and provided consulting services to multiple project delivery teams in the areas of agile project management.  • Strong knowledge and experience of Teradata RDBMS Architecture (AMP, PE, BYNET and Data distribution/Index's/Hash).  • Expertise in Dimensional Data Modeling, using Data Modeling, Star-Join Snowflake Schema Modeling, FACT & Dimensions Tables, Logical & Physical Data Modeling.  • Expertise in Design, development, testing of Extract, Transform and Load (ETL) processes necessary to load and validate data warehouse using UNIX shell scripting.  • Strong hands on experience implementing dashboarding, data visualizations and analytics using Tableau Desktop and Server. Work Experience Software Developer Blue Cross Blue Shield - Baton Rouge, LA June 2015 to Present * Developed various SQL Server Integration Services and Informatica packages to integrate and analyze data from multiple heterogeneous information sources like Teradata, SQL Server and external Flat files.  * For Data loading Teradata utilities like BTEQ, Fast Export, Fast Load, Multi Load to export and load data to/from different source systems including flat files for various external vendors.  * Proficient in performance analysis, monitoring and SQL query tuning using EXPLAIN PLAN, Collect Statistics, Hints and SQL Trace both in Teradata as well as SQL Server.  * Developed various story telling dashboards in Tableau Desktop and published them on to Tableau Server which allowed end users to understand the data on the fly with the usage of quick filters for on demand needed information  * Developed Mappings that extract data to Data Warehouse and monitored the Daily, Weekly, Monthly and Quarterly Loads.  * Designed and developed Informatica Mappings, Mapplets, and Sessions, Workflows based on business user requirements and business rules to load data from source flat files and RDBMS tables to target tables.  Project: - The Fulfillment Kits  * Collaborated with stakeholder groups across the organization to ensure business and technology alignment. Proposed solutions meeting defined specifications and needs.  * Partnered with developers to automate manual processes and developed various reconciliation reports, saving time and money while decreasing errors. Credited as a primary driving force behind a 5% increase in margins for the fiscal year.  * Completed in-depth analyses for business optimization projects boosting revenue by 11.8%.  * Develop business architecture using requirements such as scope, processes, alternatives, and risks.  * Analyze client's business requirements and processes through document analysis, interviews, workshops, and workflow analysis.  * Conducted 5+ levels of testing including functional, regression, user acceptance, integration and performance to verify the client's needs are met.  * Communicate client's business requirements by constructing easy-to-understand data and process models and Provide input into developing and modifying systems to meet client needs and develop business specifications to support these modifications  * Liaise between business and technical personnel to ensure a mutual understanding of processes and applications.  Project - Executive Dashboards (The Right data The Right Time The Right Decisions)  * Designed high-level story telling dashboards in Tableau using Cross Tabs, Heat Maps, Box and Whisker Charts, Scatter Plots, Geographic Maps by giving the executives a high-level overview of various product classification across the different marketing regions.  * Involved in business requirements and analyzing data sources form Excel/Oracle SQL Server for design, development, testing, and production rollover of reporting and analysis projects within Tableau Desktop by querying various ODBC connections such as Teradata, Oracle SQL Developer, SQL Server 2008.  * Customized interactive dashboards for the data / business predictive analysis, for trending, for finding the pattern of data over the period to provide necessary insights to business about future enhancements.  * Extensively involved in creating graphs by using measures and dimensions data from various databases using data blending concepts    Project - OTHER Projects  * Developed number of DataStage ETL jobs based on business requirements using various Transformations like Copy, Modify, Aggregator, Filter, Join, Lookup, Merge, etc  * Involved in all phases of software development from review of functional specification through assisting with test plans and final QA cycle. Actively participates in monitoring and troubleshooting of production platform related issues.  * Analyze, assimilate and integrate multi-technology data systems by building a unified back-end platform and a web enabled front-end.  * Perform day-to-day tasks that ensure technology platform remains stable and available to users. Closely work with cross functional team to enhance systems, trouble-shoot data issues, etc  * Written complex SQLs using joins, sub queries and correlated sub queries. Expertise in SQL Queries for cross verification of data.  * Developed the Teradata Macros, Stored Procedures to load data into Incremental/Staging tables and then move data from staging into Base tables.  * Used BTEQ and SQL Assistant (Query man) front-end tools to issue SQL commands matching the business requirements to Teradata RDBMS and Performed high volume maintenance on large Teradata tables using MultiLoad loader utility.  * Created TPT to transfer the data Oracle system to Teradata.  * Used Fast Export utility to extract large volumes of data at high speed from Teradata RDBMS.  * Developed TPump scripts to load low volume data into Teradata RDBMS at near real-time.  * Collected statistics periodically on tables to improve system performance.  * Performed tuning and optimization of application SQL using Query analyzing tools.  Environments:  Microsoft SQL Server, UNIX, Teradata Studio, Tableau, Control-m, Service Now, SSIS, SSRS, Informatica Power Center 10.1, TFS, Control-m, Service Now IT Analyst Southern University and A&M College - Baton Rouge, LA August 2014 to June 2015 * Developed several ETL jobs to convert raw data into various formats (excel, CSV, json) and ingest them into SQL, TERADATA DB.  * Expertise with Linux based environments & developing scripts to automate deployments and monitoring the logs.  * Analyzed the code to reduce the number of database calls and tuned the SQL Queries for optimization.  * Developed Custom Audit tables in SQL server to capture SSIS package logging information.  * Created various reports with drilldowns, calculated members, dropdowns from the cubes by connecting to analyze server from SSRS.  * Used SSIS to create Dynamic ETL Packages to validate, extract, transform and load data from different data sources online transaction Processing OLTP databases, Flat Files, CSV, Excel source files, XML files etc to data warehouse databases and involved in Data cleansing in the data transfer.  * Actively involved in Quality Processes and release management activities - To establish, monitor and streamline quality processes in the project.  Environment:  SSIS, SSRS, Teradata, SQL SERVER. Senior Software Engineer IGATE Global Technologies July 2012 to August 2014 * Designed and implemented various SharePoint Web Parts, Excel Services, and Event handlers, Features, Workflows, Content Types, Document Libraries and Custom Lists.  * Developed various InfoPath forms to build show organizational HR hierarchal format and loaded data using automated PowerShell scripts into SharePoint custom list from various formats like database and file formats.  * Provided assistance to troubleshoot advanced performance issues related to custom list and dashboards displayed on the with SharePoint site.  * Developed Scripts to verify a large number of log files for format errors and reporting the error prone log file generating IOT devices.  * Imported users from active directory into your SharePoint User Profile Service Application.  * Worked in complete Software Development Life Cycle (analysis, design, development, testing, implementation and support) using Agile Methodologies.  * Performed troubleshooting and handled escalated issues; ensured minimal disruption and efficient operational support.  * Execute the generated test case and upload the identified bug in ALM (QULAITY CENTRE) bug tracking tool as a part of UAT Testing.  * Coordinated with the release management team during the release and performed troubleshooting, code migration.    Environment:  SharePoint, PowerShell, ALM.    Courses & Certifications  * Certified "Google Analytics Individual"  * "Visual Analytics with Tableau" from University of California Davis in affiliation with Coursera  * "R Programming "from John Hopkins University in affiliation with Coursera  * "Teradata Beginner to expert level" -From Udemy  * "ITIL Foundation certification" - Udemy  * "International software testing qualified Tester (ISTQB)"- foundation level in Sep 2013  * "Workforce Development" - BCBSLA in Nov 2016. Education Master of Computer Science in Database in Computer Science SOUTHERN UNIVERSITY AND A&M COLLEGE - Baton Rouge, LA December 2015 Bachelor of Technology in Technology PBR VISVODAYA INSTITUTE OF TECH AND SCIENCE - Nellore, Andhra Pradesh May 2011 Skills Etl, Informatica, Olap, Star schema, Teradata, Ssrs, Tableau, Data modeling, Oltp, Sql, C++, Python, Reporting tools, Scripting, Linux, Shell scripting, Unix, Unix shell, Dimensional data, Logical data modeling, MYSQL, Android, PHP, Javascript, Git Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Languages Python, R , PL SQL, C++, Unix Shell Scripting,  ETL /Reporting Tools SSIS, Informatica Power center, SSRS, Tableau  Databases Teradata, SQLServer  Methodologies Waterfall, Agile  Data Modeling  Dimensional Data Modeling (Star Schema, Snow-Flake, FACT-Dimensions), Conceptual, Physical and Logical Data Modeling, ER Models, OLAP, OLTP concepts.    Teradata utilities BTEQ, FASTLOAD, FASTEXPORT, MULTILOAD, TPT, TPump, SQL Assistant, Teradata Visual Explain  Environment Windows, Unix, Linux.