Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer - Carefirst Blue Cross Blue Shield Baltimore, MD Work Experience Software Developer Carefirst Blue Cross Blue Shield 2017 to Present * Recognize and display status of files, FTP status and email charts to members using shell scripts.  * Create data pipelines for ETL using Informatica and monitor ETL jobs.  * Validate records using SQL scripts and Excel spread sheets.  * Investigate erroneous records and broken workflows and pipelines.  * Create Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) documentation.  * Maintain Service Level Agreements (SLAs). Collaborate across disciplines with internal and external teams.  * Proactively identify and propose codes that support business goals and improve processes.  * Collaborate with vendors to resolve issues with late, corrupt, and empty files.  * Monitor file transfers and feeds and resolve transmission issues.  * Collaborate across functions to resolve recurring defects, major system failures, and other issues.  ? Designed and implemented fail-safe procedure that stopped codes and emailed notification of workflow error.  ? Achieved Service Excellence Award (Q4 2018) for effective and efficient completion of annual Medical Loss Ratio process. Prevented incorrect records from moving forward. Submitted reports to federal government.  ? Service Excellence Award (Q2 2018) for solution that saved millions by editing and running codes ad hoc. Boatswain's Mate United States Navy 2012 to 2016 * Administrated and maintained network system. Configured network software and hardware and initialized servers. Installed network components, peripherals, software and operating systems.  * Served as member of damage control, emergency and security alert teams.  ? Programmed microprocessor in Hex language  ? Used MATLAB to program robotic functionality and designed electrical components for robot.  ? Awarded Navy "E" Ribbon, Navy Good Conduct Medal, National Defense Service Medal, Global War on Terrorism Expeditionary Medal, Service Medal, Sea Service Deployment Ribbon, Pistol Marksmanship ribbon, Rifle Marksmanship ribbon, Enlisted Surface Warfare Specialist. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science Tennessee State University 2011 Skills DATA MANAGEMENT, ETL, INFORMATICA, SERVICE LEVEL AGREEMENTS, DATABASE, MySQL, Javascript Military Service Branch: United States Navy Rank: e4