Software Developer - Monarc Bionetworks <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> - Monarc Bionetworks * Experienced in defining, designing, building scalable and distributed systems that provide seamless experience to the end users.  * Proven expertise in building complex applications that have increased the user base from few hundreds to 50 thousand by redesigning the backend architecture from scratch.  * Shipped 20 different applications that serves the different audience with good design and results.  * Ability to thrive in fast paced environment and experienced in building applications in teams for both startup and big public listed companies.  * Ability to learn any new technology and quickly start building applications in that technology without increasing the run way of development.  * Looking to apply my expertise in a team that aims to build software systems to provide first class experience for consumers. Work Experience Software Developer - Monarc Bionetworks September 2018 to Present • Built backend application called UPRN (universal patient register network) to register patients for variety of diseases and for accessing the electronic health records of patients to store and process in our system.  • Designed and implemented the highly scalable backend architecture with MVC pattern using Scala and Play. Created various REST APIs in play and created smooth interface with external APIs in HIPAA environment.  • Implemented various microservices using AKKA actor and scheduler.  • This new application UPRN was responsible for getting 50 thousand users, which was a multifold increase from only 400 users. The registration failure rate fell below 0.1% from 20% with the efficient new backend application.  • Building search engine (SPYDER) for all diseases that exist on this planet and using those search results to build dynamic web pages on the go using Play, Scala and Twirl template engine in order to get as many health records as possible.  • Responsible for mining the data, that was collected by running the opensource web crawler all over the internet using various disease and medication search keywords.  • Responsible for improving the efficiency of web crawler by designing the page rank algorithm.  • Sentimental analysis was performed using Spark MLLIB to display the mood of patients that were using particular medication for a disease.  • The new application SPYDER was able to bring more than 300 users per month, which was only less than 20 patients per month.  Tech Stack: Scala, Play, MySQL, MongoDB, Slick, HTML, FHIR, JavaScript, Lucene Solr, Apache Spark. Software Engineer Infosys Limited - Bengaluru, Karnataka July 2007 to February 2014 • Responsible for analyzing 17 small applications that were built in VB6 and designing and creating single bed of applications in Java by merging the functionalities of all applications. This application eliminated the manual effort of at least one person.  • Built various enhancements for every new product launched. Successfully shipped more than 20 enhancements with zero bugs.  • Created reusable assets and automated the manual effort to improve the turnaround time of project by 15%.  • Consumed APIs from various external vendors and provided seamless experience for the users.  • Automated the CRM manual effort by integrating the API with our system there by eliminating one person's work  • Responsible for design, development, testing, application support of a major module 'Dividend Schedule'. Quickly ramped up the team and lead the project efficiently even with tight deadlines by using scrum, story boards and incremental approach.  Tech Stack: Java, C, C++, Spring, SQL, Eclipse, Visual Studio. Education MS (Computer Science) in Computer Science San Diego State University August 2016 to May 2018 Advanced certificate in web and mobile application development in web and mobile application development San Diego State University August 2015 to August 2016 BE in Electronics and Communication PES College of Engineering August 2003 to May 2007 Skills Visual studio, Apache spark, C++, Git, Javascript, Php, Solr, Solr, Mongodb, Database, Mysql, Oracle, Sql, Apache, Scala, Java, jquery, Html5, Ajax, Css Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/shwetha-shivaraju Additional Information Technical Skills:  Programming Languages Java, Scala, C, C++,  Web Technologies HTML5, AJAX, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, PHP  Database Oracle 9i, My SQL, MongoDB(No SQL), Solr  Server Management Skills Apache Tomcat, MySQL,  Tools/ IDE IntelliJ, Visual Studio, Apache Spark, Oracle SQL, Jupyter Notebook, Maven, JIRA, Git