Software Engineer <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Smithtown, NY Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Engineer Didit - Mineola, NY July 2015 to Present Responsible for development, QA, deployment and support of all internal applications including Node and PHP Scripts. Software improved efficiency of multiple departments reducing errors in communication with clients. Increased revenue by developing and supporting an external client’s software.  Junior Software Engineer Didit - Mineola, NY June 2013 to July 2015 Developed and supported SEO software using Node.js, MongoDB, and PostgreSQL. Collaborated with helpdesk team to handle both software and sysadmin tickets. Expanded dev team’s bandwidth and increased speed of software output of department.  Junior Developer Pathway Genomics - San Diego, CA March 2011 to July 2012 Gathered requirements from users, designed Postgres database and frontend in Lua. Created new process in lab to properly store and track patent samples which improved accuracy and speed of lab team’s operation.  Education Bachelor's in Computer Science Point Loma Nazarene University - San Diego, CA August 2007 to May 2011 Skills Node.js, PostgresSQL, MySQL, Hapi, JQuery, Bootstrap, Express, MongoDB, PHP, Microsoft SQL Server, Amazon EC2, Google Adwords API, Bing Ads API, Yahoo Gemini API, Javascript, CSS, Git Additional Information PROJECTS    Inventory — Didit   Inventory Tracking system for Print/Direct Mail shop. Dramatically increased accuracy of material count in Didit warehouse. Incorporated a Job Status page into system which enhanced communication between departments and warehouse workers to keep everyone up do date with accurate job information.     Maestro — Didit   Node Application to manage digital marketing campaigns. Integrated Google, Bing, Yahoo and additional API’s. Project was an integral part of Didit’s Client Services department. Software brought data from all used search engines into a central application to ease employee’s tasks. Additionally had AI bidding technology which could change bids in real time based on a client’s strategy and goals.     Purl Project — Didit   Set of php scripts to take in public homeowner data, process and create custom tax grievance applications. Streamlined and automated a manual process into a website that raised sales by 40% in the first year. Dashboard to display results of sign ups and additional statistics.     Accessioning Database — Pathway Genomics  Application to store location of DNA Samples as they are tracked through the laboratory. 