Sr. Golang Developer Sr. Golang <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Golang Developer - UPS Supply Chain Solutions Columbus, OH • Over 8+ years of experience in Web Application Development & Designing.  • Developed responsive web product features using React JS, SASS, on GoLang with REST.  • Built enterprise wide DNS historical data trending analysis tools in Go (Golang), Languages  • with REST API for user quieries as microservice  • Improved test automation efficiency and execution through development of a distributed resource management system written in Erlang.  • Increased visibility and user experience of distributed resource manager using YAWS, Erlang and AJAX to create an asynchronous web portal for the distributed resource manager.  • Building a Command line tool to interact with RESTful API using in Golang.  • Experience developing various web applications using ClojureScript for front end and J2EE, Servlets, Elixir, Erlang, Clojure, for backend applications.  • Created internal diagnostic tools using Golang and AngularJS in order to assist with customer issues. Golang and Java were used as a backend REST service while AngularJS was used for the user interface.  • Implement new requirements and fix existing bugs on the system, built in ERLANG, CouchDB, CouchDB modules and PostgreSQL (backend) and CoffeeScript and BackboneJS (frontend)  • Implemented Web Services (WSDLs) using JAX-WS and also implemented REST services by Golang with microservices architecture.  • Strong command in leading Frameworks Team such as Angular.js, backbone.js, bootstrap.js, D3.Js, React.Js and Node.Js  • Hands on experience in Web Application development using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX and JSON.  • Hands on UML compliant high level design with data flow diagram, Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams, Activity Diagram and Use Cases and documenting for peer developer.  • Excellent Leadership, Technical, Communication, Analytical and Problem Solving skills and ability to get on well with people including cross-cultural backgrounds.  • Worked on JavaScript frame work for building web pages using Angular JS, Backbone, Bootstrap, Node.JS, and React.JS to augment browser based applications with MVC capability and developed, worked and implemented UI controls.  • Designed and Developed SOA enterprise system using Oracle SOA Suite.  • Incorporated agile methodology and SCRUM techniques to manage requirements and enhance the application.  • Implemented continuous deployment system with Jenkins, AWS: CodeDeploy, Ops Works, and Packer for deployment of Java Applications.  • Created middleware by setting up Google App Engine using Python for a client. Work Experience Sr. Golang Developer UPS Supply Chain Solutions - Columbus, OH September 2017 to Present Responsibilities  • Developed backup and recovery engine for VM backup/recovery using VMware vSphere APIs, GoLang programming language and RabbitMQ Message bus (communication interface)  • Experience using Restful to push configure to devices with Java and Erlang.  • Used Go Programming Language (GoLang) and Scala in the development of the application.  • Created PDF reports using Golang and XML documents to send it to all customers at the end of month with internation language support.  • Experience building Listener on Rabbit MQ Erlang.  • Backend proficiency using Node, Express, Go (Golang), MongoDb including 3rd¬party services Firebase, Kinvey and Parse.  • Developed front end using Bootstrap.js, Angular.js, Node.js, D3.js, Backbone.js, where back end is JAX-RS (Jersey) REST microservices.  • Implemented Java and Goroutine such as Command, State, Template, Composite, Strategy and Observer.  • Wrote the HTTP RESTful Web services and SOAP API's in Erlang, Elixir, Phoenix, Node and Python languages.  • Used GOLANG to log the different host system event and alert information to Cassandra database.  • Experience adding PL/SQL Documentation for the existing SQL which were written in Erlang/OTP.  • Designed and implemented JSON web token /parser for specification test files in Golang.  • Experience in transitoning our agent MySQL from Apache/PHP to Erlang which improves both the horizontal and vertical scale out of the product.  • Contributed source code in Goroutine to developing an automation framework for AWS CFN.  • Developed user interfaces using AJAX, Goroutine, JSON, HTML5, and CSS3.  • Providing a responsive, AJAX-driven design using JavaScript libraries such as ES6, Angular.Js, Node.js, bootstrap.js, Backbone.js, Gorilla Mux and go-hystrix  • Experience of the design patterns and best practices with Goroutine to start with design and get to deployable production systems including scale monitoring and instrumentation platform.  • Tested an R-based Erlang C model to determine the optimal number of agents required at several time intervals for a given occupancy rate and a required service level.  • Created a Rich Single Page Application SSO/SAML using HTML, CSS, JSON, Angularjs, and REST Services.  • Implemented Presentation layer using CLI Framework, Node.JS, typescript, ReactJS, GORM, knockout JS, Gokit, HTM godoc  • Developed a few UI modules for the mobile version of the website using ReactJS.  • Worked on EXT JS with Restful and Soap Web service technologies.  • General form validation was done using ES6 closures for Widget-app module.  • Worked on DynamoDB, RabbitMQ, Elasticsearch server configuration using latest version of Erlang.  • Introduced redux-thunk and Immutable.js as additional libraries to support ReactJs application.  • Constructed powerful and modern frontend architecture, involving ginkgo, Redux, and Bash.  • Developed new Widget-app module for MMD using React.js with Redux architecture and ES6.  • Build up pagination for search results using Eclipse paging store.  • Development of the web application for reports generation on the Microsoft Active Directory objects (Go language)  • Generated gRPC file for publishing the Web Services.  • Developed SVN and JUnit test cases for all the developed modules.  • Used JIRA tool for team collaboration bug tracking, and fixes.  • Programmed multi-threaded app in Java for LINUX and worked with several OS including Windows and Mac OS.  • Used NGINX Controller API Management to secure APIs at every API touchpoint, authenticating and authorizing third-party client applications.  • Configured NGINX and Node.js servers for the portal to run on and made them work event for CORS.  • Used GoCD to streamline and modeled complex CD workflow on cloud environments such as Kubernetes, Docker, and AWS.    Environment: GO, Goroutine, Microservices, Channels, Gokit, GORM, Gorilla Mux, Go-Hystrix, Go Doc, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, Angular, React.JS, Redux, Bootstrap.JS, ES6, Typescript, JWT, SSO/SAML, Elasticsearch, Ginkgo, Python, Bash, ErLang, gRPC, Java, Spring, Hibernate, MySQL, PL/SQL, DynamoDB, Rest, Eclipse Git, SVN, Selenium, Agile, Scrum, AWS EC2, S3, GCP, Maven, JSON, Jira, Linux, Jenkins, Docker Sr. Golang Developer Ford Motors Co - Columbus, OH March 2016 to August 2017 Responsibilities  • Used Go to provide a form of encapsulation that allow types, including their fields and methods, to be visible or invisible.  • Wrote a prototype on GoLang to improve performance of report generator.  • Worked on writing chain code using GOlang.  • Transformed existing monolithic application functionalities to microservices, thereby increasing the reliability and availability of these applications and reducing associated downtimes.  • Integrated Microservices rest services into JSF and helped moving the pages into Angular  • Created and modified services following microservice architecture using Java, Spring and Struts.  • Used JavaScript to make dropdown menus on web pages and displayed part of a web page upon user request.  • Wrote semantic HTML, CSS, and SCSS for scalable and responsive layouts.  • Used JSON Web Tokens (JWT) for security and authentication in application.  • Established SSO between SAP Portal and Sharepoint using SAML.  • Developed a RESTful interface for querying the graph database Erlang.  • Worked on fixing defects and improving performance of the existing system using PL/SQL, and MySQL.  • Developed custom modules by integrating Web Services like REST and SOAP.  • Designed object model classes and Java beans using Eclipse.  • Implemented MAVEN for building the application and GIT, SVN for managing and controlling the source code and used JSON and XML as data interchange format.  • Written Unit Test Cases for all the developed use cases and did integration testing using Junit.  • Involved in setting up Test automation and developed cucumber feature files and used Selenium for automated testing with TestNG.  • Worked on defect management using JIRA.  • Re-engineered manual build process to a fully automated system utilizing Hipchat.    Environment: GO, Microservices, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, Angular, Bootstrap.JS, JWT, SSO/SAML, Python, ErLang, Java, Spring, Hibernate, MySQL, PL/SQL, REST, Soap, Eclipse, Git, SVN, junit, Selenium, Agile, AWS EC2, S3, Maven, JSON, XML, Jira, Linux, Jenkins Sr. Golang Developer Adobe Systems - Columbus, OH March 2015 to February 2016 Responsibilities  • Worked on the Spring framework like Spring IOC and Spring DAO using GO.  • Used iBATIS framework with Spring framework for GO data persistence and transaction management  • Implemented functionality using GO, JSP, HTML and Struts Framework., Hibernate, Spring, Java Scripts and Weblogic.  • Designed MT-Web application using the JSF Framework and microservices.  • Developed web Components using Goroutine, Servlets and Server side components using EJB under J2EE Environment.  • Used Frameworks like JDBC, Hibernate, Struts, EJB2, GoLang and Weblogic.  • Implemented CSS3, DOM Api, Goroutine and Ajax to create a dynamic and interactive experience.  • Architected, Designed and developed the product using HTML, CSS, Jquery, CLI, Javascript, Sencha, PhoneGap.  • Developed prototypes using Goroutine, ActionScript, JavaScript, HTML, GWT and Java.  • Developed framework using Java, BIRT Runtime, iText, MySQL and web server technologies.  • Worked on Toad for Oracle for querying the database.  • Strong Database programming using GoLand (, ADO with GORM, MS SQL Server 2000, MS Access and Oracle backend. Extensively used Gokit, Stored Procedures, Functions and Triggers in Microsoft SQL Server.  • Involved in developing custom taglibs, JSP, EJB's, Portlets, Gorilla Mux and DB2 - stored procedures.  • Designed and developed the input/output data formats in go-hystrix, godoc, XSD for the WSDL files and accordingly implementing services using Apache AXIS2.  • Creates GUI builder using NetBeans and gRPC.  • Experience in the installation, support, configuration and maintenance of Tomcat, JBoss.  • Create and maintain Elasticsearch & Amazon EC2 instance that supports the companies Redmine project management site and Mercurial CM.  • Setup ClearCase server to support CCRC (ClearCase Remote Clients) . Evaluated existing software development environment in MySQL, drafted recommendations for improvements. Worked with GHX and IBM to resolve licensing issues involved with ClearCase software change management solution package. Environment was mixed Windows and Linux, projects written in C++ and Java.  • Involved in creating unit testing of various layers using junit and ginkgo created automated test scripts for integration testing using selenium.  • Optimized UML design using patterns like GoLand, DAO, Factory, Service Locator and Business Delegate  • Developed user interface using JSP, AJAX, JSP Tag libraries and Struts Tag Libraries to simplify the complexities of the application using Angular and Redux.  • Integrating Rich Faces and My Faces in JSF, configuring Rich Faces Filter and Faces Servlet in the configuration file utilizing Rest.  • Integrated with iText and Bash to generate Test results in PDF and XLS format  • Design and implementation of desktop, mobile and web applications in Java and HTML5/Javascript using Eclipse, NetBeans, and Xcode IDE's; Swing, GWT, Vaadin, JPA, Hibernate, PhoneGap frameworks; and SVN, git, maven source code environments.  • Agile/SCRUM was used as the project management methodology and JIRA & Confluence were the tools used to keep things in check.  • Developed HTML, Swing and JSP pages for user interaction and data presentation using Python.  • Implemented Security with SQL, LDAP and group level security in Cognos Connection Portal.  • Installation/Support PL/SQL for support of Google App Engine & Jasper Reports Server.  • Designed various design Workflow Modules using BPM (Business Process Modeler) to implement Business Logic and Business rules using JSON web token.  • Involved in designing the data stage job through Nginx to implement Rigor and mockito Component.  • Installed and configured the development environment using MongoDB, Nginx Web-logic on Windows NT and LINUX operating systems.  • Design & creation of multiple sites using: React, WordPress, HTML, PHP, XML, CSS, Javascript & more.  • Designed and developed Message Flows and Message Sets and other service component to expose Mainframe applications to enterprise J2EE applications.  • Integrated Open stack API with Amazon EC2, S3, RDS & created security groups, auto-scaling, load balancers (ELBs) in the defined virtual private connection for deploying in Google Cloud Platform.  • Integrated Docker and Kubernetes, a powerful cluster manager and orchestration system for running the Docker containers by using OpenShift& Nginx.  • Developed and implemented Legacy system programs by using Typescript, COBOL, DB2, CICS, JCL, JAVA, ES6 and VSAM.  • Designed, Coded and documented GoCD applications to meet customer requirements where SSO/SAML was an integral component of the system.  • Used Maven to run test suites on multiple environments based on user specified external file.  • Wrote test script on Linux to run Java application using JIRA, Selenium to test and provide UDP.  • Used JIRA tool for team collaboration bug tracking, and fixes. Internal messaging and workflow management was done via HipChat.    Environment: GO, GoLang, Goroutine, microservices, Channels, Gokit, ORM GORM, cli, Gorilla Mux, go-hystrix, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, Angualar, React, Redux, bootstrap, Es6, typescript, JSON web token, SSO/SAML, Elasticsearch, ginkgo, Python, Bash, ErLang, gRPC, Java, MySQL, SQL, PL/SQL, MongoDB, Rest, GoLand, Google App Engine, Github, Rigor, Selenium, Jest, mockito, Agile, Scrum, AWS EC2, S3, RDS, Google Cloud Platform, MAVEN, JSON, JIRA, Linux, Nginx, Docker, Jenkins, Kubernetes, GoCD Golang Developer Wells Fargo & Company - Palo Alto, CA September 2013 to February 2015 Responsibilities  • Involved in requirement analysis, design, coding and unit testing.  • Design and developed eService application and implemented single sign-on solutions using SAML to connect to WellBeing (LV) application.  • Created JKS file to interact with third party application using certificate and public key during SSO implementation.  • Implemented code to generate SAML response to interact with third party application successfully.  • Wrote AngularJS controllers, views, and services for new website features.  • Used Hibernate ORM framework integrated with Spring framework for data persistence and transaction management.  • Primarily focused on the spring components such as Spring MVC, Dispatcher Servlets, Controllers, Model and View Objects, View Resolver.  • Generated WSDL file for publishing the Web Services.  • Used Log4j for logging errors, messages and performance logs.  • Perform transition from regular waterfall development model to Agile - Scrum framework.  • Used RAD and WAS7.0 in entire Dynamic project development.  • Maintained source code version in JAZZ.  • Developed JUnit test cases for all the developed modules.  • Prepared and maintained project handover documents for feature developer understanding.  • Reviewing of weekly status, consolidation of status, escalation of issues and any re-planning.  • Identify risks, prioritize the risks and plan mitigations.  • Involved in code deployment and resolve the defects during testing period.    Environment: GO, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, Angular, Bootstrap.JS, JWT, SSO/SAML, Python, ErLang, Java, Spring, Struts, MySQL, SQL, REST, Soap, Netbeans, CVS, SVN, junit, Selenium, Waterfall, AWS EC2, S3, Ant, XML, JIRA, Unix Software Developer Quicken Loans - Raleigh, NC September 2011 to August 2013 Responsibilities  • Wrote multithreaded programs to measure system performance.  • Worked on GUI internationalization using JSP and Core Java.  • Used Mercurial to keep track of versioning of the source code  • Worked on bug fixing.  • Used JDBC APIs for database connectivity and data retrieval.  • Developing HardwareStoreMarketer.com site using ASP.Net.  • Worked on various client websites that used Struts framework, Hibernate and OGNL  • Wrote test cases using JUnit testing framework and configured applications on Weblogic Server  • Involved in debugging the product using Eclipse and JIRA Bug Tracking.  • Involved in writing stored procedures, view, user-defined functions and triggers in SQL Server database for Reports module.  • Simulation was developed using C++.  • Implemented real-time patient prescription history verification system using C, Oracle PL/SQL on VMS platform.  • Used Visual Source Safe for source control.  • Manipulated data and performed data preparation using TSO, ISPF and SPF system utilities.  • Wrote stored procedures in Oracle PL/SQL for data entry and retrieval.  • Extracted and modified data from VSAM files for PDF reports.  • Automate nightly batch processing and job alerts using REXX.  • Responsible for migrating Websphere server and migrating IBM CICS Transaction.  • J2EE to communicate legacy COBOL based mainframe implementations.  • Use FileAid datasets to validate backend results of test events.  • Configuring and analyzing JCL to execute mainframe batch.  • Actively involved in contributing to RFP and POC activities in IMS.  • Used standard data access technologies like JDBC and ORM tool like Hibernate  • Designed, implemented new website features and provided support, maintenance    Environment: Java, J2EE, SOA, Spring, Web Services, CXF, XML, XSD, Shell Script, UML, HTML, JavaScript, Eclipse, WebLogic, Active MQ, JAX-B, JMS, Axis2, AJAX, Hudson, Maven, Jenkins, Restful, SOAP, JIRA, Oracle, PL/SQL, XPath, XSLT, SOAP UI, JUnit, SVN, Windows, Unix. Software Developer General Motors - Charlotte, NC January 2010 to August 2011 Responsibilities  • Designed and added new functionality extended existing application using J2EE, XML, Servlets, JSP.  • Studied the impact of the requirement and prepared the Requirement functional and technical documents.  • Created different batch programs to clean up tables in DB2 database.  • Worked on UNIX shell scripting to run the JAR file created for batch program.  • Used Struts framework in UI designing and validations.  • Developed Action Classes, which acts as the controller in Struts framework.  • AJAX forms are created for update operations.  • Data was converted into JSON using JSP tags.  • Enhanced the existing application to meet the business requirement.  • Establishing JDBC connection using database connection pool.  • Wrote complex SQL statements to retrieve data from the DB2 database.  • Participated in the Production support and maintenance of the project.  • Created new tables in DB2 database.  • Used ClearCase version control system.  • Performed usability testing for the application using JUnit Test.    Environment: Core Java, JSP, JUnit, Mercurial, Eclipse, .Net, JIRA, JDBC, Struts, Hibernate, VisualSourceSafe, Weblogic, Oracle, OGNL, C, C++, Linux, MS SQL Server, COBOL, FileAid, REXX, ISPF, Mainframe, CICS, IMS, JCL Education Master of Science in Science and Engineering Seattle University