Consultant Consultant TIBCO profile Singapore ? BE-IT with 8.5 years IT experience.  ? Experience in software development and maintenance with specialization in applications development on EAI technologies including Tibco BE, TIBCO BW, Service Manager and Java.  ? Experience in using messaging standards such as EMS, JMS for developing distributed applications  ? Experience in using TIBCO middleware products like TIBCO Active Database adapter, File Adapter and TIBCO R3 Adapter.  ? Experience in deployment & monitoring the Applications using TIBCO Administrator  ? Experience in implementing Services by using WSDL, SOAP, XSD and XML  ? Worked on different palettes like JMS, HTTP, FTP, Service, File, General Activities, XML Activities and tools and many others  ? Experience in Tibco Business Events development using Concepts, Events, Decision table, Rule, Rule Functions, and DB Concepts.  ? Excellent analytical, design, co-ordination and problem solving skills.  ? Strictly adhere to the quality standards and strive hard to provide 100% quality output.  ? Adept in end-to-end development of software products from requirement analysis to system study, designing, coding, testing, de-bugging, documentation and implementation.  ? An effective communicator with excellent relationship building & interpersonal skills. Strong analytical, problem solving & organizational abilities. Possess a flexible & detail oriented attitude. Work Experience Consultant TIBCO Software India Pvt Ltd - Mumbai, Maharashtra December 2013 to February 2018 I have worked on Telecom and Banking domain during this period.    Role   • Working as Module lead  • Gathering requirements from client and implementing the services using TIBCO BE.  • Creating Unit and Functional Test cases and perform testing.  • Deployment support.  • Defect solving and enhancement changes.  • Worked on web studio for deployment and hot deployment purpose.    Technology used: Tibco Business Events 5.2.1 and 5.3,Tibco Business Works 5.8 Sr. Software Engineer L&T Infotech - Mumbai, Maharashtra March 2010 to December 2013 I was working as Sr software engineer in L&T infotech ,worked on Banking and manufacturing domain.  Client:  Ingram Micro Inc. is the world’s largest technology distributor and a leading technology sales, marketing and logistics company for the IT industry worldwide. This project involves Development, maintenance and production support of end to end Tibco Applications for Ingram Micro using various Tibco EAI tools Tibco Business works, Tibco Administrator. It involves integration of Ingram Micro’s Ecommerce system; Transport Management system; Material Handling system; Warehouse system and ERP system using Service oriented architecture and Tibco adapters.    Client: BNP Paribhas Bank  Worked on Support and Development.    Technology used :  TIBCO BW,TIBCO EMS,Adapters.    Worked at Client Locations:  Worked with the client Ingram Micro at onsite   (Santa Ana, USA & Milton Keynes UK ) from May 2012 to July 2013.    Achieved below awards:    Individual Performance Annual Award-2012  Star Award Q2 2010-2011  Star Award Q4 2010-2011 Software Developer BrainCraft eLearning Solution - Mumbai, Maharashtra June 2009 to March 2010 This is the online platform for knowledge &learning management (KLM) for schools to complement the traditional face-to-face learning approach with technology assisted learning approach.    Based on Open Source Software Moodle and Integrated with Drupal (CMS) and elgg Open Source Social Networking Engine    Role: Developer, Web Designing, Coding in PHP, exception handling. Education Bachelor of Information Technology in general MGM College of Engineering & Technology Mumbai - Mumbai, Maharashtra 2008 Skills TIBCO BW (7 years), TIBCO BE (4 years), TIBCO EMS (7 years) Awards Individual Performance Annual Award 2012-12 STAR Award for Quarter 2011-05 Star Award Q4 2010-2011 2011-10 Additional Information Project:    Project: Western Union APN Development/Support  Time Period: June-2015-Feb-2018  Client: Western union  Details: Developing a payment gateway for different countries using TIBCO BE product, performing validation and calling third API using HTTP or JMS call. Storing all required info into DB.    Role and Location:  • Working as Module lead  • Gathering requirements from client and implementing the services using TIBCO BE.  • Creating Unit and Functional Test cases and perform testing.  • Deployment support.  • Defect solving and enhancement changes.  • Worked on web studio for deployment and hot deployment purpose.    Technology used: Tibco Business Events 5.2.1 and 5.3,Tibco Business Works 5.8  Pune: Tibco Softwares-Pune    Project: True Telecom OMX  Time Period: January 2014-June 2015  Client: True Telecom   Details: True Telecom is one of the largest telecom service provider in Thailand. Developing OMX CEP System to handle incoming Order Request and perform required activities based on Order types. Integrated with backend billing systems such as Amdocs.  Role and Location:  • Collecting the functional requirements from the client.  • Creating technical documentation for design.  • Developing the solution in TIBCO BW.  • Developing the solution in TIBCO BE.  • Creating Unit and Functional Test cases and perform smoke testing.  • Deployment support.  • Defect solving and enhancement changes.    Mumbai-Powai Tibco Office  Bangkok-True Telecom Client office (Onsite)    Project: BNP Paribas ITL Development/Production Support/Platform Support    Time Period: July-2013-Dec-2013    Client BNP Paribas  Details: developing a TIBCO based service which transforms data from  Publication/Subscription type of applications and converts it into a client specific  format and transmits as a TIBCO EMS message to the backend system or to the  requesting client application. TIBCO BW is using to design.  Role and Location:  Gathering requirements from client and Implementing the services using BW.    Project: IMGLOBAL Interface Development/Production Support/Platform Support    Time Period: March-10-July 2013    Client INGRAM MICRO  Details: Ingram Micro Inc. is the world’s largest technology distributor and a leading technology sales, marketing and logistics company for the IT industry worldwide. This project involves Development, maintenance and production support of end to end Tibco Applications for Ingram Micro using various Tibco EAI tools Tibco Business works, Tibco Administrator. It involves integration of Ingram Micro’s Ecommerce system; Transport Management system; Material Handling system; Warehouse system and ERP system using Service oriented architecture and Tibco adapters.    ? Ingram Micro EAI/EBS Production Support  Details:    Role and Location: Onsite Co-Ordinator –Santa Ana California US  Onsite Co-Ordinator –Milton Keynes UK    Responsibilities:    ? Support provided for more than 100 live services on production on three different data centres.  ? Active monitoring/Preventive actions taken to avoid the high severity issues.  ? Quick resolution and action taken for production critical issues.  ? Participated and coordinated with other teams effectively to resolve the issue via Bridge calls/mails.  ? Supported Go-Lives of services for different countries during production support.  ? For monitoring perspective different monitoring tools/scripts developed and maintained on production to get alerts on time.  ? Changed given global variables as per the request mail.  ? Start/Stop and monitor all Adapter and BW instances.  ? Review all alert mails which are coming into mail box.  ? Responsible to solve support tickets in Remedy Tool.  ? Testing the interfaces in DEV and PPR by coordinating with source and target applications.  ? Created and managed Queues and Bridges; Groups and Users.  ? Involved in configuration of ADB adapter for various services.  ? Handle end user communication and work with the customer on next step diagnosis.   ? Provide operationally acceptable workarounds to customer issues.  ? Co-ordination with different teams involved in the project(like teams looking after SAP, Seeburger application, ABAP, Control-M and Mainframe team for the project)  ? Testing the deliverables/solution to ensure the quality standards and metrics are met and ensure the functional requirements are covered.  ? Web services created in BW, Virtualization of Web services in SOA, WSDL creation.    ? Application: Finance/Price Files transfer    Details:   TIBCO MFT is used to transfer the files through Windows/Linux/Mainframe Servers.  Went through training from TIBCO Vendor for MFT.    Technology used:   TIBCO MFT: Command Centre, Internet Server, Platform server    Responsibilities:   Developer, Testing, Coordination with Client for Data, throughout Testing of whole Interface with Client.    ? Application: TMS (Transport Management System)Integration  Details: One of the Criticaldevelopment/integration of services totransforms the data and sends it to JDA’s Transportation Management System (TMS), where they will be aggregated for shipment costing, rating of carrier’s calculation and keeping data in sync with SAP.    Client: JDA Software, Inc. 11701 Luna Rd., Dallas, TX 75234    Technology used: TIBCO BW Framework, TIBCO Administrator, SAP ,SOA,TIBCO JMS,EMS,    ? Responsibilities:   ? Involved in analyzing the system requirements and suggesting alternative solutions through better design and interfaces.  ? Designing and implementing BW processes.  ? Written the Unit test case for the Business Process Developed.  ? Design Review, Code review and test plan review.  ? Interacting with the client.  ? Defining and ensuring proper communication within team.  ? Coordinating UAT and Release of the project.  ? Extensively using business works to do the complex data mapping & transformations.  ? Designing and Implementing XSD schemas.  ? Build archive file deployed the projects into various environments by using TIBCO Administrator.  ? Involved in Production build and release of application EAR’s  ? Supported for Hawk Monitoring tasks, Involved in creation of hawk rulebase.    ? Application: MHS (Material Handling System)Integration    Details: Integration of MHS and SAP to manage the warehouse handling units and cartons data and maintaining the same.    Client: Ciuch Solutions Rue Jeanne d'Arc 59200 Tourcoing    Technology used:   Tibco BW Framework, Tibco Administrator, SAP, SOA, TIBCO JMS, EMS    Responsibilities:   Developer, Testing, Coordination with Client for Data, throughout Testing of whole Interface with Client and SAP    Projects undertaken:    Project:Learning Management System  Time Period: June’09-March-10  Client: Braincraft eLearning Solution  Details: This is the online platform for knowledge &learning management (KLM) for schools to complement the traditional face-to-face learning approach with technology assisted learning approach.  Technology used:  Based on Open Source Software Moodle and Integrated with Drupal (CMS) and elgg Open Source Social Networking Engine    Role: Developer, Web Designing, Coding in PHP, exception handling.     Project: Web Based Hangman Game  Details: This is the web-based game to learn scientific words, terms and vocabulary while playing a game of hangman.  Technology Used: JSP, Servlet, SQL     Project: Multilevel Marketing Software (MLM Report)  Time Period: April ’09-June-09  Client: Lakshami Marketing pvt.ltd  Details: This Multilevel Marketing Windows based Software used by the Administrator of the company to store their daily/weekly basis work report into their database. Administrator do log in using their unique Id and Password and access the details like- Date, month, Total expenses ,Total clients, whole tree structure of all clients with respect to level etc.    Role: Developer in Java Swing, SQL.     Professional Certifications:   Microsoft Certified Professional Developer (MCPD)    Exam ID 548: PRO: Designing and Developing Windows®-based Applications by Using the Microsoft® .NET Framework   Exam ID 526 TS: Microsoft® .NET Framework 2.0 - Windows®-based Client Development     Exam ID 536 TS: Microsoft .NET Framework - Application Development Foundation     Internal Certifications:   L&T InfoTech TIBCO Certification Cleared  L&T InfoTech ITSM Internal Certification