Senior Application Developer Senior Application <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Application Developer - Infomatics Corp • Software Developer with 5 years of experience in Application Development with hands  on experience in analysis, design, development, testing and implementation of Web  Applications.  • Experienced in developing Web Applications involving Java, Spring, Hibernate, JDBC.  • Experience in Front end web development using Angular, Angularjs, JSF-Rich Faces,  jQuery, Javascript, XHTML, HTML, CSS.  • Experience working with RESTful webservices.  • Experience in using MYSQL and Mongodb database.  • Experience in writing automated Selenium Test Cases.  • Experience in working in Agile Methodologies. Work Experience Senior Application Developer Infomatics Corp June 2017 to Present Project: Recruitment Management  • Developed a Product for Recruitment Management using Java, Spring, Angular,  AngularJs, Hibernate, SQL, Mongodb, HTML, CSS.  • Experienced in writing Automation Scripts using Selenium.  • Have used Sonar Cube in Jenkins for code quality.  • Have used Maven for dependency Management  • Experience in understanding, designing and implementing most of the modules in the  Product using Agile methodology.  • Responsible for allocating the tasks to the developers and Managing the team. Associate L2 Software Developer Niveus Solutions Pvt. Ltd July 2014 to May 2017 Career Site Building Application  • Experienced in developing a career site building application using Java, Spring Boot,  Angularjs, Hibernate, SQL, Mongodb, HTML, CSS.  • Experienced in performing third party integrations.  • Interacted with end users to identify the software requirements  • Involved in design, development and implementation of collected requirements.    Online Shopping Site  • Responsible to adding all the Product and their respective category to a shopping site  built using Majento  • Magja was used for the backend data.  • Successfully integrated with BestBuy and WallMart to get their products into the site.  • Experienced in Source code version control system SVN.    Jewellery ERP  • Experienced in developing Enterprise Resource Planning [ERP] for Jewelers using Java,  Spring, JSF- Richfaces, Hibernate, MySQL, XHTML & CSS.  • Worked closely with clients to understand the product.  • Provided onsite support to the client.  • Experienced in Source code version control system SVN.    ERP  • Experienced in developing Enterprise Resource Planning [ERP] for Fish Meal customers  using Java, Spring, JSF- Richfaces, Hibernate, MySQL, XHTML & CSS.  • Worked with to understand the requirements. Documented the collected requirements in project management tool Redmine. Developed and tested the solutions, and delivered the projects accordingly to the Clients with collaboration with the teammates.  • Providing onsite assistance to clients to troubleshoot any application issues as they  arise.  • Experienced in Source code version control system SVN. Education BE in Electronics & Communication Moodalkatte Institute of Technology - Kundapur, KARNATAKA, IN Mahatma Gandhi Memorial College Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/thejas-shetty-958b63a8 Additional Information Technical Skills  Programming Languages: Java / J2EE, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, SQL.  Frameworks: Spring, Hibernate, Angular, Angularjs, JSF-Richfaces.  Database: MySQL, Mongo DB.  Application Server: Apache Tomcat.  Utilities: Maven, Jira, BitBucket, Git, Jenkins, SVN, Redmine.