Application Development Senior Developer Application Development Senior <span class="hl">Developer</span> Application Development Associate Manager - Accenture Austin, TX Somil Rajkumar Sharma  somilsharma 1 1@gmail.com | + 1(5 12) -775-9750  • Java/J2EE professional Lead having 9 years of IT experience in designing, architecting, developing, integrating, managing and delivering software applications using wide variety of technologies in all phases of the development, implementation, maintenance and support.  • Currently working as Child Support Financial and Case Processing Specialist responsible for designing, implementing and delivering JAVA based complex applications.  • Extensive experience in the public services and banking domains.  • Detailed and goal oriented with excellent critical thinking, technical, time management and organizational skills.  • Results-oriented strong leader with a proven track record of managing complex software development projects  from envisioning to value realization.  • Architect and leading a team of 10+ members helping them understand requirements, functionalities, mentoring, technical guidance and code reviews.  • Expertise in complete Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) using Waterfall and Agile (SCRUM) methodology.  • Hands on experience in requirement gathering, defining the solution and technical architecture for detailed business requirements and business needs of the end client.  • Experienced in defining and developing Model View Controller (MVC) Architecture based Web Applications.  • Hands on experience in developing enterprise and web applications using JSF, Portal, JSP, JavaScript, HTML, Web  Services (SOAP and REST-JSON), Servlets, EJB, JPA, JDBC, Hibernate, Spring.  • Designed, architected, developed and customized Batch Architecture for projects using Spring Batch Framework with features like restart ability, skip ability, multi-threading, multi partitioning, rerun ability.  • Architected and developed applications using various core J2EE design patterns like Singleton, Session Facade, Business Delegate, Service Locator, Front Controller, Value Objects, DAO etc.  • Expertise in using Mule Expression Language (MEL) and Data Weave Language (DWL) to evaluate and transform message payload to and from any format (XML, JSON, CSV, Java Object, etc.).  • Experience with RAML, MuleSoft API Platform and RESTful API design.  • Hands on experience in working with following MuleSoft connectors: Database, FTP, SFTP, File, HTTP, JMS, Quartz, SMTP, VM.  • Experienced in deploying enterprise web applications on Application/Web servers like Mule MMC, IBM WebSphere, IBM Portal, Apache Tomcat.  • Hands on experience in using Splunk, Application Performance Monitoring Tools etc. for creating reports and dashboards for Applications.  • Adverse knowledge about concepts such as CI/CD.  • Proficient in SQL and PL/SQL programming with experience in using database servers like Oracle, DB2, MySQL.  • Expertise in developing web applications using IDE tools like Eclipse, RAD (Rational Application Developer), RSA (Rational Software Architect).  • Hands on experience in Logging Framework such as Log4J.  • Experience in source code version/management tools like ClearCase, CVS, GIT.  • Experience in preparing project related documents using Wiki, Microsoft Office Suite like MS-Office, MS-Excel, MS-PowerPoint, MS-Visio, MS-OneNote, MS-Teams, MS-Project Professional, SharePoint.  • Individual who thrives to deliver an end quality product ensuring a great customer experience to each client and maintain healthy and trustworthy client relationship.  • Regarded as an excellent team player with great communication skills, self-motivated individual with exemplary analytical and problem-solving skills. Highly focused on technology, architecture design, code ethics, accuracy, performance and driving results.  • Innovative thinker always thriving towards providing solutions involving cutting edge new IT technologies. Work Experience Application Development Senior Developer State of Texas - Austin, TX December 2018 to Present Project Title: Texas Child Support Enforcement System 2.0  Role: Application Development Associate Manager (Dec 2018 to Present) Application Development Team Lead (Dec 2015 to Nov 2018) Application Development Senior Developer (Jun 2014 to Nov 2015)  Location: Austin, Texas, USA (Feb 2018 to Present) Pune, India (Nov 2016 to Jan 2018)  Austin, Texas, USA (Nov 2015 to Oct 2016) Pune, India (Jun 2014 to Oct 2015)    Project Description:  The goal of Texas Child Support Enforcement System 2.0 is to upgrade the legacy child support enforcement system used to establish child support orders, enforce order compliance, and collect and disburse child support payments with a more cutting-edge technology-based system to cater with the increasing Case load.  Responsibilities:    • Architect, manage and deliver complex JAVA based web and batch applications working as a Child Support  System Financial Specialist.  • Collaborate with the client to understand the business need and provide efficient solution in terms of design and technicality of the application.  • Perform requirement analysis and define application development strategies for delivering a quality and efficient end product.  • Develop end to end application modules using JSF with WebSphere Portal user interface, AJAX, JavaScript, HTML, Web Services (SOAP and REST), EJB and JPA in accordance with JAVA design patterns and standards.  • Design and develop backend modules and API's using Core Java SE 8, Java EE, SOAP and RESTful Web Services, Spring framework.  • Design, architect, develop and customize Batch Architecture for project using Spring Batch Framework with features like restart ability, skip ability, multi-threading, multi partitioning and rerun ability.  • Assess and provide solution for designing and developing an Architecture PoC for replacement of IBM Data  • Power with event-driven microservices architecture using MuleSoft.  • Follow standard specifications and processes to develop, implement and maintain Java based components and interfaces independently with hands on developing complex batch jobs using Spring batch processing framework.  • Perform unit test and integration test of all components in order to meet the quality product specifications.  • Evaluate and improve application performance in terms of application code by using tools like CA Introspec, Load Runner etc.  • Monitor quality reports and supervise application code reviews.  • Spearhead project planning by setting goals, estimating costs, mentoring and monitoring the development team.  • Execute impact assessment of critical issues and contributed to outline corrective actions closely with software architects and designers working in an Agile environment.  • Assess business implications for each project phase and monitor project progress to meet deadlines as per the stakeholder expectations.  • Manage multiple development processes and streamline communication between other technical architects, product owners and the team.  • Provide support and maintain healthy relationship with client, present incremental demos, perform debugging, enhance performance of the application and provided solutions to several issues within stringent timelines meeting SLA's.  • Prepare Technical Design Document (including High Level Design Document, Low Level Design Document) for new business requirement.  • Test code using Junit, JMeter and SOAP UI Client.  • Audit logs utilizing JMS (Java Messaging Service) to send the application error information to XDASH system.  • Use Maven tool to build the application and resolve its dependencies.  • Automate application builds using DevOps with monitoring and alerting procedures.  • Deploy spring configuration files such as application context, application resources and application files.  • Administer Dependency Injection, Aspects using Spring Framework to provide dependencies across several tiers.  • Develop SOAP Webservice client application to call multiple System of Repository webservice.  • Implement various design patterns in the project such as Data Transfer Object (DTO/VO), Data Access Object (DAO), Service Locator and Singleton.    Environment: Java 6, Java 8, Spring Batch, Spring MVC, JSF, Java Script, AJAX, HTML, Web Services (SOAP & REST), EJB  2.0, JPA, DB2, IBM Data Power, IBM BPM, JMS, IBM MQ, Mule ESB Enterprise 3.8.6, Any Point Studio 6.5.0, SQL, IBM WebSphere Application Server, IBM Portal, SonarQube, IBM ClearCase, IBM ClearQuest, IBM RSA, CA Intro spec, Load  Runner, Splunk Accenture June 2014 to Present Senior Software Developer Infosys Limited - Pune, Maharashtra July 2012 to June 2014 India    Project Description:  Finacle Internet Banking is a Internet Banking Product of Infosys. The goal of the project was to provide maintenance support to various Banks and deliver enhancements/change requests as requested.    Responsibilities:  • Implemented Internet banking functionalities such as Funds Transfer (within the bank and NEFT/RTGS), Service  Requests, Credit Cards using a technology stack of JSP, JavaScript, Servlet, EJB, JPA and Oracle.  • Developed backend modules and API's using Core Java 6, SOAP Web Services, EJB.  • Collaborated with clients and implementation teams to cater customization, configuration and integration of product with Oracle/ SQL database as per requirements.  • Spearheaded ideation and technical development of applications in accordance with the processes involved in the software development life cycle.  • Involved in code reviews and production bug/defect analysis.  • Worked closely with the project team including Quality Assurance team and other development teams.  • Analyzed and resolved software errors accurately on time and provide required status reports.  • Implemented Application Layer, Business Layer and Integration (Data Access) Layer classes to implement the service and developed components for Business and Data Layer.  • Developed software programs and applications assisting developers, analysts and designers.  • Mentored and guided junior software programmers and interns providing training and technical assistance.  • Facilitated preparation and documentation of program requirements and specifications, user manuals and guidelines.  • Researched on design and impact analysis of change requests and provided effective technical design by evaluation of different approaches.  • Implemented change requests and tested for any possible exception/error/ breakage of existing flow.  • Implemented Junit test cases to ascertain the accuracy of modules and application logging using Log4j.    Environment: Java 6, JSP, Java Script, HTML, CSS, Servlets, EJB, Oracle, SQL, SOAP Web Services, Apache Tomcat  Server, CVS, XML Scripting. Infosys Limited September 2010 to June 2014 Project Title: Finacle Internet Banking Maintenance Education Bachelor of Engineering in Information Technology in Information Technology University of Mumbai - Mumbai, Maharashtra June 2010 Skills Eclipse, Ejb, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jms, Jsf, Jsp, Servlets, Application analysis, Application development, Html, Javascript, Json, Python, Scripting, Software development, Xml, Soap Additional Information Technical skills    Operating Systems macOS 10.13, Windows 10, Windows 7, Windows 9X/2000/XP, Linux  Language Java, JavaScript, PL/SQL, Python  Technologies and Framework Spring, Spring Batch, JMS, Hibernate, J2EE (Servlets, JSP, JSF, EJB, JPA)  Webservice Designs/Architectures REST (Representational State Transfer), SOAP (Simple Object Access Protocol)  Markup & Scripting Language XML, HTML, JSON, AJAX  DBMS Oracle 9i/10g/11g/12c, DB2 8.x / 9.x / 10.x  Web & Application Servers Mule MMC, WebSphere 8.x, WebSphere Portal 8.x, Apache Tomcat  Application Development Tools  Eclipse, RAD (Rational Application Developer), RSA (Rational Software  Architect), Any Point Studio, Postman Edit plus, TOAD DB Client    Version control Tools/Tracking Tools IBM Clear Case, IBM Clear Quest, CV  Application Analysis Tools CA Introscope, Splunk, SonarQube  Testing Tools/Processes SoapUI, JUnit Testing, LoadRunner for Performance Testing, JMeter  Software Development Processes/Methodologies Agile, Waterfall