Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer Bellingham, WA My seven years of experience includes creating and maintaining full stack Java applications by fixing bugs and error messages that would appear in the log files. I also have experience in writing new Java classes and methods from scratch as well as backend stand-alone programs for writing files and sending them via FTP. Work Experience Software Developer Capgemini - Columbia, SC February 2018 to July 2019 • Supported 150 different Java applications.  • Assisted with the interviewing process.  • Mentored less experienced developers.  • Maintained Java code that is in the Struts and Spring frameworks.  • Created new Java code for several different web applications.  • Researched coding options for new features.  • Worked in JBoss and Tomcat J2EE environments.  • Troubleshoot issues within the entire system or systems involved.  • Resolved tickets in a timely manner.  • Provided new solutions for our client.  • Maintained and updated an Oracle database.  • Work as part of the on-call rotation.  • Writing and maintaining technical documentation. Software Developer Capgemini - Lee's Summit, MO June 2017 to February 2018 • Supported 130 different Java web applications.  • Maintained Java code that was based on Struts and Spring.  • Created new Java code for several different web applications.  • Researched coding options for new features.  • Worked in JBoss and Tomcat J2EE environment.  • Resolved tickets in a timely manner.  • Provided new solutions for our client.  • Maintained and updated an Oracle database.  • Work as part of the on-call rotation.  • Writing and maintaining technical documentation. Software Developer United States Marine Corps - Kansas City, MO February 2016 to March 2017 • Maintained Java code that was based on Struts.  • Created new Java code upgrading from Struts to JSF and Prime faces.  • Researched coding options for new features.  • Worked with a Weblogic J2EE environment.  • Created, maintained and updated an Oracle database.  • Adhered to strict code guidelines.  • Maintained applications in Linux environments.  • Participated in the Programmer Community of Practice to help set development guidelines.  • Maintained a Secret level security clearance for the United States government.  • Experience working in a fast-moving team environment with both local and remote team members. Application Developer I NAIC - Kansas City, MO June 2015 to October 2015 • Created new applications using Spring batch.  • Researched coding options for new applications.  • Created and maintained code in JAVA using the Eclipse IDE.  • Worked with a JBoss J2EE environment.  • Adhered to strict code guidelines.  • Maintained several applications coded in JAVA that ran in UNIX environments.  • Experience working in a fast-moving team environment with both local and remote team members. Application Developer I Sprint - Overland Park, KS January 2013 to October 2014 • Created and maintained code in JAVA using the Eclipse IDE.  • Created and maintained stored procedures in Oracle SQL.  • Maintained three applications coded in JAVA that ran in UNIX environments.  • Worked with a JBoss J2EE environment.  • Maintained federal security clearance for certain applications.  • Working knowledge of setting up code repositories the Eclipse IDE for CVS and Subversion  • Experience working in a fast-moving team environment with both local and remote team members. Service Technician RFI Security Systems - Kent, WA March 2010 to December 2010 • Installed digital surveillance systems.  • Maintained and troubleshot cameras, PC's, digital software/hardware, and network connections.  • Serviced a wide array of surveillance equipment.  • Maintained a company vehicle Surveillance Technician Snoqualmie Casino - Snoqualmie, WA September 2008 to March 2010 • Installed digital surveillance systems.  • Maintained and troubleshot cameras, PC's, digital software/hardware, and network connections within the department.  • Serviced a wide array of surveillance cameras. Education Masters of Information Systems Management in Information Systems Management Keller Graduate School of Management - Bellevue, WA June 2010 to September 2012 Bachelors of Science in Computer Information Systems in Computer Information Systems DeVry University - Kansas City, MO Skills J2EE, JAVA, HIBERNATE, SPRING, JBOSS, JSF, STRUTS, JDBC, ORACLE, PL/SQL, SQL, API, HTML, XML, CSS, TOMCAT, WEBLOGIC, UNIX, TCP, TCP/IP