Contract Software Engineer Contract <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Software Engineer New York, NY Software engineer with experience in designing and developing enterprise web applications.   5+ experience building frontend applications in ReactJS, managing state using Redux, scaling server side applications in NodeJS, NPM & Webpack. Experience building MERN applications for large scale projects, well versed in maintaining server side applications in PHP, MySQL and AWS Experience utilizing version control systems, Git. Experience in building in IDE's such as Visual Studio Code and Atom. . Committed to maintaining cutting edge technical skills and up to date industry knowledge. Proficient in agile software development, application design, system architecture and successful project management. Work Experience Contract Software Engineer New York, NY January 2019 to Present • Collaborated with web designers, product managers, and clients to develop user friendly experiences to then deploy, manage and monitor.  • Built frontend UI applications using ReactJS launching, maintaining, and scaling production applications  • Developed enterprise level MERN applications utilizing MongoDB, Express, ReactJS, NodeJS, and Axios. Managing state with Redux.  • Designed REST API's for Creating, Reading, Updating and Deleting data in NodeJS  • Utilized JWT for user authentication   • JavaScript experience, including concepts like asynchronous programming, algorithms, closures, types, and ES6  • HTML/CSS experience, including concepts like layout, specificity, cross browser compatibility, and accessibility. Experience using Typescript  • Experience with browser APIs and optimizing front end performance  • Product Design experience building high fidelity prototypes in Sketch utilizing libraries, symbols, and design systems Frontend Software Engineer The Adaptive Imagination - New York, NY October 2018 to June 2019 - Developed clean, portable, and well-documented code using JavaScript (ES6)   - Architected development and rebranding for a multi national conglomerate GENLED Brands and its subsidiaries, Acolyte & Agilight.  - Stack: HTML, CSS, Javascript, AngularJS, jQuery, Bootstrap.  - Worked closely with design and product teams to move projects from conception to launch, then iterate and test new features  - Coordinated with project managers and product designers Software Developer Consumer Priority Service - New York, NY June 2018 to September 2018 Maintained site reliability and performance using ASP.NET, JavaScript, and Angular framework for a Startup in the Insurance sector  Created back-end API with user authentication, database management and designed systems  infrastructure, all hosted on AWS  Introduced JSON Web Tokens to the site to securely transmit information between server and client. The  JWT's were signed using a public/private key pair using ECDSA  Manipulated existing databases and tables to increase the speed of returned results from the MySQL  relational database management system.  Created functionalities that revitalized existing ticket assigning system which led to an increase in commits with version control via Git  Used Angular to improve site performance, accessibility and SEO by 86%, proven by Chrome Audit  Introduced Agile development to the CTO which led to cross an increase in development, implementation and Testing for all our new products Lead Full Stack Developer Adelphi ACM - Garden City, NY January 2018 to May 2018 Spearheaded web application for Association of Computational Machinery chapter using HTML, CSS,  JavaScript and MySQL  Developed an internal content management system to allow members to easily add updates to the site  restricting access with user authentication  Integrated API's from job boards to dynamically update our jobs page so users can find open positions from companies in the local area  Automated image optimization, using Grunt and minified JS and CSS, which reduced page load times by up to 25%  Collaborated with art directors, project managers, and designers to develop landing pages, and electronic  direct mail campaigns IOS Engineer Grouplr January 2017 to December 2017 Led development team in building an productivity app for IOS using Swift 3, Core Data, and Apple's CoreML  & Vision API's, hosted on AWS  Bridge header integration of Objective-C methods to Swift code  Implemented API calling for asynchronous image downloading  Asynchronously downloaded and displayed image URL in a CollectionView  Responsible for underlying application architecture and design patterns, implementing new features and complex animations to design specifications, and maintaining large codebase and automated tests. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science Adelphi University - New York, NY May 2018