Software Developer/Owner <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span>/Owner Full Stack Software Engineer Bellevue, WA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Developer/Owner Built2GSD - Kennewick, WA January 2010 to Present Freelance work with planning, designing, building, testing, and release. Web applications are built using ASP.NET Core, SQL, MEAN, Angular, Node, and React with local hosting and CDN links as well. Mobile applications are built in Android, with iOS and React native versions being researched.  ·       Newest projects involve ordering applications for two separate clients in React and Mobile platforms   ·       Project in progress: UseTheTalent.com with React - a volunteer for experience application.   ·       Project in progress: Method for Talent application – practice methods for job experience and interviews.  o  Mentoring several new developers about best practices, code reviews, and interviews. This information and feedback from experienced developers/engineers is being added to the app.   ·       Created images for sites and applications using Adobe Photoshop.  ·       Previously built sites in ASP.NET for a client’s re-election campaign and provided weekly maintenance.  ·       Working within AWS, Azure, Digital Ocean, and Heroku for cloud deployment and services. Contract Software Engineer Holland America Line Inc - Seattle, WA January 2017 to February 2017 Worked on internal legacy Windows and Web applications with plans to enhance and later replace them with newer technology and to created added functionality per user and management feedback.  ·       Built prototype using ASP.NET MVC 5, with pre-prototype using ASP.NET Core via Node CLI.  ·       Introduced Android design for staff options such as GPS tracking and schedule changes. Worked on code in SQL, Stored Procedures, C#, Bootstrap, and JavaScript.  ·       Created wireframe model for asset management of train cars, and staff in Alaska. Contract Software Developer Devfuzion - Kennewick, WA September 2016 to November 2016 Provided immediate solutions to Chukar.com, an e-commerce site using Magento CMS system. Wrote code and debugged full stack. Instituted rules for planning, designing, testing, and releasing changes to application.  • Wrote in PHP, XML, JavaScript, Bootstrap, Node, and MySQL. for shopping cart rules and changes.  • Managed, installed, and debugged extensions from 3rd party sources and provided options and changes in code to improve user experience design and improve usability. Contract Software Developer LiveTiles - Richland, WA April 2016 to June 2016 Worked on the LiveTiles SharePoint add-on Web application, which allows users to create custom intranet sites with SharePoint. Development used ES6, TypeScript, Handlebars.js, Less CSS, Bootstrap, jQuery, and Node. RequireJS was used for loading of asynchronous module definitions (AMD).  • Integrated REST APIs for web components (tiles) using Facebook, Yammer, RSS, Twitter, and Delve.  • Debugged JavaScript, HTML, CSS, UI/UX interface flaws and issues. Software Engineer Cayuse Technologies (Partnership with Accenture) - Pendleton, OR May 2013 to April 2016 This was a direct hire position with subcontracted work consisting of multiple and overlapping projects for Cayuse and clients such as AT&T, T-Mobile and JP Morgan Chase.     Cayuse Project: Data Insights Group, Sept 2015-April 2016  ·       Wrote with Node to create and access servers through SSH logins.  ·       Created ASP.Net Core site prototypes with Node.js and created ASP.NET MVC prototypes.  ·       Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) to create authentication, security policies, servers, SSH access, and databases like SQL and PostgreSQL for cloud data mining projects.  ·       Created Android weather application prototype for Marketing Department         T-Mobile: Analysis Dev Team, July 2015-Feb 2016  Performed development analysis for the switch from Amdocs to Ericsson for databases   ·       Wrote SQL code for data modeling and analysis of customer types from 25 million subscribers.   ·       Optimized SQL database queries 200-300% faster and enforced user-friendly analysis documents.     Cayuse Project: Language Application, Mar 2015-April 2015  Created Android application for the Nez Perce Language and Umatilla Tribe’s culture.     JP Morgan Chase: Intl and Domestic Client Exit of OTP, Oct 2013-Mar 2015  Called Order-To-Pay (OTP), it was formerly the largest automated payment management system.  ·       Created requirements for and tested a Java automated testing tool for reading encrypted multi-gigabyte CSV files along with creating most of the test cases involved in its use.  ·       Remote assisted customers with financial data by providing a walk-through and data guides/maps.   ·       Led 10-person test team, analyzed their testing, and altered the testing to finish 30 days early.     JP Morgan Chase: OTP (Rel. 12.3/12.4), May 2013-Feb 2014  ·       Coded functional and UI testing of XML SOAP and Java APIs. Trained other team members.  ·       Worked on improvements to security issues via testing and analyzing various parts of the APIs. Education Associate in Computer Science - Web Development and Programming Columbia Basin College - Pasco, WA 2010 to 2011 Mechanical Engineering Washington State University - Pullman, WA August 1995 to May 1997 Skills HTML (10+ years), CSS (10+ years), ASP.NET (6 years), JavaScript (6 years), JQuery (2 years), XML (5 years), CSS3 (5 years), HTML5 (5 years), Android (5 years), SQL (5 years), C# (6 years), Node.js (3 years), Angular (3 years), Cygwin (Less than 1 year), Bootstrap (3 years), Less (Less than 1 year), PHP (1 year), Ruby (1 year), Python (1 year), Java (5 years), React (2 years), NET, Linux (3 years), Computer Science, AWS, MySQL, ASP, Git, Azure (Less than 1 year), HTML 5 Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/4kenwagner http://www.github.com/kenxwagner http://built2gsd.com Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information Author-Skillshare.com                                                                         June 2018-Present            Creating online video courses in JavaScript with React and Angular.