Developer <span class="hl">Developer</span> Developer - Kodak Alaris Inc To seek challenging assignment and responsibility, with an opportunity for growth and career advancement as successful achievements. Work Experience Developer Kodak Alaris Inc April 2015 to Present Technologies HTML5, JQuery, JavaScript, C# .Net, ADO.Net, EDI FTP, Web services, SQL Server.    Description:  xCarrier is responsible to interact with Dynamics AX ERP through web service to get/update the data. This project involves in getting the waybills for the shipments being processed through carriers like FedEx, UPS, DHL etc. Multi Customs filings is an extensive functionality implemented in this project.  Enterprise ocean management is one of the module included upon the customer requirements. This module involves booking of large containers on the ships along with the customs filing.    Responsibilities:  • Requirements gathering to meet the customer's business requirements.  • FDD and TDD documents preparation.  • Development of EDI FTP communication and implementation of Booking Request API.  • End to End project development.  • Designing reports like SLI, Entry Certificates with multi language support.    1.Name xCarrier HTML5 implementation Developer Woodward September 2014 to March 2015 Technologies HTML5, JQuery, JavaScript, JQWidgets, C# .Net, Web services, SQL.    Description:  xCarrier is responsible to interact with WISE ERP to get/update the data. This project involves in getting the waybills for the shipments being processed through carriers like FedEx, UPS, DHL etc. All the delivery information is maintained in the ERP, where we get the information from the ERP, process the shipment and update the freight cost, waybill, package information back to the delivery.    Responsibilities:  • Requirements gathering to meet the customer's business requirements.  • Developed a DLL that acts as a bridge between xCarrier and WISE for communication.  • End to End project development.  • Designing reports like SLI, Entry Certificates with multi language support.  • Mapping of WISE data to xCarrier fields and updating data back to WISE. Software Developer Woodward September 2014 to November 2014 Duration September-2014 to November-2014.  Technologies Adobe Flex, C# .Net, Web services, SQL.    Description:  Routing Guide is used to determine the most optimal ship method based on business rules, transit time, and freight cost. This comprises of Routing Criteria and Routing Rules.    Responsibilities:  • To interact with carriers using web services to determine delivery date-time and freight costs.  • To create the business logic to retrieve the results based on the routing criteria.  • To prioritize the rules when the user has multiple satisfactory rules and picks the fastest services.    3.Name Oracle ERP AMS interfacing to XCarrier Application. Software Developer Verifone March 2013 to June 2014 Technologies Adobe Flex, C# .Net, Web services, Http Services, HTML5, SQL.    Description:  Responsible in mapping the Oracle ERP fields to XCarrier's database server fields. On integrating the product, we can pull the deliveries from the ERP system, process the shipment, Update the results back to the ERP system as well as the XCarrier database. When the shipment is process successfully the user can print the CARRIER label, Commercial Invoice etc.    Responsibilities:  • Developed Service handlers in Client system.  • Developed a module called Shipping Manifest which is used to review the shipments processed.  • Developed EOD (End of Day) module that reports the number of shipments done as per the service level and printing the same in EOD label.  • Integration of various Carriers like FedEx, UPS, DHL GLOBAL MAIL USA based on the client requirement.  • Code Deployment in the client instance.  • Logging of the project execution.    5.Name Truck Route Optimization Software Developer Verifone June 2013 to August 2013 Technologies Adobe Flex, C# .Net, Web services, Http Services, HTML5, SQL.    Description:  xCarrier has been already rolled out to LCN, LBU, LB2 and CMs like IAC., Sanmina, Teletec and Venture. VeriFone has decided to use xCarrier for shipment tracking for AMS org as well. AMS warehouse is operated by 3PL Flextronics using Baan application and already B2B integration is in place between Flextronics Baan and VeriFone Oracle. Once shipments is made in Baan, Shipment Notice Inbound Message will be send to Oracle, based on that deliveries will be ship confirmed in Oracle. All ship-confirmed deliveries will be interfaced to xCarrier for tracking and invoicing, hence there is a need to build a new interface between Oracle and xCarrier.    Responsibilities:  • Developed a Windows Service to automate the interfacing process between Oracle and xCarrier.  • Data interfaced to xCarrier should pass all the validations and consolidated.  • Report generation at the end of the process with all the successful an failure notifications.  • An automated E-Mail of the generated report to the authorized/responsible persons of that location/plant which has been interfaced.    4.Name Oracle ERP integration to XCarrier Application. Developer Associate Internal XCarrier Development October 2012 to January 2013 Technologies HTML5, JQuery, JavaScript, SQL.  Activity Type Research and Development Activity    Description:  This project can be defined as R&D team activity which involves migration of existing Flex solution into HTML5 solution. The reason behind the migration is Flex is a heavy coded technology which kills most of the time and results in performance when compared to HTML which also solves the browser compatibility issues. This also delivers rich UI for presentations. Asynchronous communication using ajax calls have been developed which eliminates the complete round trip of webpage.    Responsibilities:  • Responsible in coding the communication way between the native HTML page to services.  • Implement JQuery+ajax request for calling webservices and methods of a service.  • Segregating the code into JS file to eliminate HTML page weigth.  • Developing using DOM for dynamic design.  • Maintaining the error logs in the application. Developer Associate Internal XCarrier Development February 2012 to January 2013 Technologies HTML5, JQuery, JavaScript, SQL.  API Google API    Description:  This project is used to find the optimal distance between the multiple locations provided by the user by overcoming the restrictions and limits that are set by the Google organization. This also involves dynamic designing of the webpage irrespective of the number of parameters.    Responsibilities:  • Designing and developing of the dynamic content webpages.  • Database design  • Implementation of Web Services.    6.Name Migration of Flex to Html5 Education Bachelor of Technology in Computer Science and Engineering Aditya Engineering College - Kakinada, ANDHRA PRADESH, IN Board of Intermediate Education - Rajahmundry, ANDHRA PRADESH, IN ICSE St Ann's School - Rajahmundry, ANDHRA PRADESH, IN Additional Information Additional Skill Set    Programming Languages C, C++, Java, JEE.  IDE My Eclipse, Net beans.  Tools Team foundation server, JIRA  Integrate Database servers Compact sqlserver, Sqlserver 2008R2, Oracle