Senior Software Developer Senior <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sandy Springs, GA Work Experience Senior Software Developer Buckhead, GA August 2018 to Present Founding member of a small development team responsible for all facets of new cross-platform applications for iOS, Android, and web.  ? Uses React-Native-Web to build client-facing applications with a single  unified codebase.  ? Constructs APIs using Nodejs, TypeORM, and Apollo Graphql Server.  ? Constantly delivering new features, fixes, and refactors with SemaphoreCI.  ? Manages cloud infrastructure via Google Cloud Platform. Senior Software Developer TSYS - Alpharetta, GA January 2018 to August 2018 Mentored team members by sharing knowledge, answering questions, and fostering growth.  ? Organized a cross-project team of passionate developers to shape the direction of front-end architecture and code quality.  ? Initiated proof of concept programs to explore new strategies in areas  including build process, form controls, best practices, state management, styling, and testing.  ? performing previous responsibilities to a high degree of quality. Software Developer II TSYS - Alpharetta, GA March 2017 to January 2018 Enhanced enterprise product line by creating new applications with React  and Redux.    ? Streamlined development and build processes by migrating projects from Gulp to Webpack.  ? Implemented user interfaces both from mockups and from scratch using  LESS, CSS3.  ? Ensured high levels of coverage with Jest unit tests.  ? Built APIs with Java Spring Boot.  ? Maintained project version control with git.  ? Consistently met deadlines within fast-paced agile environment.  ? Adhered to accessibility and internationalization requirements. Software Developer Datalink - Tampa, FL October 2015 to February 2017 Leveraged Angular(v1.5) to build healthcare applications and interface  with RESTful APIs.  ? Improved UI and UX design by translating user needs and acceptance  criteria of product backlog items into detailed concepts and mockups.  ? Built RESTful APIs with C# .NET. Software QA Engineer CommercialTribe - Denver, CO March 2015 to September 2015 Automated end to end testing of Angular applications with Protractor.  ? Reported and diagnosed bugs in front-end applications.  ? Constructed test plans, and specifications. IT Consultant Rocky Mountain Computer Specialists - Denver, CO February 2012 to March 2015 Consulted with clients to design and build static html and css web pages  to build an online presence.  ? Maintained and installed networks, servers, hardware, and software for a multitude of local small business clients. Education University of Central Florida - Orlando, FL August 2007 to August 2011 Skills Javascript