Software Engineer (ETL Developer) <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer (ETL <span class="hl">Developer</span>) Software Engineer (ETL Developer) - Centurylink Work Experience Software Engineer (ETL Developer) Centurylink October 2018 to Present Project Description:  Worked on integration of centurylink and LVLT databases. Data from various sources are transformed and stored in the database. Worked on creating design document for developers. Experienced in working in completely Agile project with tight deadlines.    Job Responsibilities  • Analyze the requirements and working on design document.  • Creating tables (STG, Fact & Agg tables) at DB level as per the given requirement docs.  • Developing ETLs using Informatica by applying business logic, adhering to Client standards.  • Used transformations like lookups, joiner, Aggregator, XML, router, filter, sorter, http transformation, java transformation etc  • Developed unix scripts for fetching and moving of files.  • Creating Design Documents(LLD) for the rest of the mappings.  • UAT of the developed Code by designing/developing Test Cases/Test Scripts.  • Preparing Implementation plan and Change management ticket for Production implementation.  • Writing roll back plan for the developed coding.  • Leading a small team with two juniors under me.    Company worked for: TCS  Duration: Dec 2014 - Oct 2018    PROJECT #1    Project Title: Deutsche Bank(EUQT, AnaCredit, GDPR)  Tools: Informatica 9.6  Language: SQL, UNIX Shell Scipting, pl-sql  Database: ORACLE 11g, Software Engineer (ETL Developer) Deutsche Bank August 2017 to Present Project Description:  Worked on various modules for Deutsche Bank like MIFID, EUQT, I_SERIES applications. Worked generally on the investment banking module. Data from various sources(including third party as well) are handled and are stored in database or send back to business in the form of reports. Experienced in dealing with different kind of sources.    Job Responsibilities  • Analyze the requirements and working on design document.  • Creating tables (STG, Fact & Agg tables) at DB level as per the given requirement docs.  • Developing ETLs using Informatica by applying business logic, adhering to Client standards.  • Used transformations like lookups, joiner, Aggregator, XML, router, filter, sorter, http transformation, java transformation etc  • Developed unix scripts for fetching and moving of files.  • Creating Design Documents(LLD) for the rest of the mappings.  • UAT of the developed Code by designing/developing Test Cases/Test Scripts.  • Preparing Implementation plan and Change management ticket for Production implementation.  • Writing roll back plan for the developed coding.  • Trained new joiners and provide KT to them.    PROJECT #2    Project Title: Treasury Datawarehouse(TDW)  Tools: Informatica 9.6  Language: SQL, UNIX Shell Scripting  Database: ORACLE 11g, Software Engineer Qualcomm, USA - US January 2015 to August 2017 Project Description:  Financial Data from various units of the organizations is dumped into the data warehouse It passes through various transformation and cleansing process before loading into the data ware house  Role and Responsibilities    • Analyze the requirements and working on design document.  • Creating tables (STG, Fact & Agg tables) at DB level as per the given requirement docs.  • Developing ETLs using Informatica by applying business logic, adhering to Client standards.  • Used transformations like lookups, joiner, Aggregator, XML, router, filter, sorter etc.  • Worked extensively on unix side as well for archiving, fetching and moving of files.  • UAT of the developed Code by designing/developing Test Cases/Test Scripts.  • Preparing Implementation plan and Change management ticket for Production implementation.    PROJECT #3    Project Title: Qualcomm Shuttle Management(QSM)  Tools: Informatica 9.6, Tableau  Language: SQL, UNIX Shell Scripting  Database: ORACLE 11g,    Client: Qualcomm, USA  Role: Software Engineer  Duration: Jan 2015-Aug 2017    Project Description:  Qualcomm Shuttle Management (QSM) helps to keep track and process the transport system for all the employees present in Qualcomm. To make things easy for the management, this particular application is developed. This particular application is using Oracle DB. SO data has to be integrated from different sources. Several ETL processes were involved as per the business requirement.    Job Responsibilities:  • Gathering the requirements from client.  • Creating tables (STG, Fact & Agg tables) at DB level as per the given requirement docs.  • Creating views on top of the existing tables in Oracle, and developing the associated ETLs using Informatica by adhering to Client standards.  • Preparing proper test case plan and validation document for DEV, SIT, UAT and PROD.  • Preparing Implementation plan and Change management ticket for Production implementation.  • Creating dashboards on Tableau as per the given requirements.  • Using advanced feature of Tableau like parameters, calculated fields, LOD and various types of visualization.    PROJECT #4    Project Title: QIS  Tools: Informatica 9.6  Language: SQL, UNIX  Database: ORACLE 11g, Assistant Software Engineer (ETL Developer) Qualcomm December 2014 to January 2015 Project Description:  QIS_RAM is a centralized Data Warehousing system which maintains all the usage, transactions and invoices of third party vendors and Brew developers. It is comprised of a Data Warehouse and couple of data marts which feeds data into Cognos reports for front end analysis and reconciliation. It also coordinates with different upstream and downstream systems to satisfy all the business requirements of the third party and Qualcomm customers.    Job Responsibilities:  • Analyze the whole project and maintaining and managing daily and monthly invoices.  • Created and managed automated scheduling jobs in both CONTROL-M v9 for all the Informatica, UNIX, DB and Cognos jobs.  • Fixed different kind of issues involving daily loads like data corruption, partial loads, missing transactions, partition issues, data redundancy. Education BE in Elect and telecomm Sathyabama University June 2014