Software Developer III <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> III Fairfield, IA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Developer III Cambridge Investment Research, Inc. - Fairfield, IA January 2012 to Present • Used C#, MS-SQL, Javascript, CSS, and HTML to develop a variety of applications.   • Maintained several external web applications for the input, export, and tracking of customer documents.   • Maintained an internal system of services, desktop applications, and web applications.   • Oversaw and facilitated the maintenance and expansion of critical applications,   • including major upgrades.   • Developed and maintained code for safe and secure interaction between company products and databases.   • Collaborated directly with end users to troubleshoot and fix issues.   • Designed applications to replace third-party vendor products.   • Lead research into potential technology and practice changes   • Performed code reviews and ensured standards were met.   • Created C# and Javascript libraries for use in other teams’ applications.   • Lead an effort to increase the amount of unit testing in all applications.   • Created automation tools to reduce support efforts.   • Trained and mentored other developers in the use of new technologies.   • Created prototypes for internal and external applications.   • Mentored interns in general software development.   • Lead an effort to increase adoption of DevOps practices. Education Associate in Programming Indian Hills Community College - Ottumwa, IA January 2010 to December 2011 Skills C# (7 years), SQL (7 years), Javascript Assessments Problem Solving — Highly Proficient May 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to analyze relevant information when solving problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/nfahkqhfucyjcn0i Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.