SQL Developer SQL <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Engineer /SQL BI Developer Montgomery, AL • Around 3+ years of experience in Information technology industry covering all stages of development life cycle including business process analysis, requirements gathering and analysis, high level design, detailed design, development, testing and post implementation support.  • Excellent experience in design, development, implementation and administration of database systems using MS-SQL Server 2014/2016 for both OLTP, OLAP & Data Warehousing Systems applications in Different industries.  • Experience in Data Extraction and Transforming and Loading (ETL) using SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS) and SQL server Import /Export Wizard in MS-SQL Server 2014/2016.  • Adept in RDBMS concepts and constructs along with Objects creation such as Database, Table, Normalization, UDF, User Defined Data Type, Indexes, Stored Procedures, Views, Cursors and Triggers.  • Knowledge in SSIS script transformations using basic C# Script and scheduling SSIS Packages for transferring data automatically from multiple data sources to SQL server.  • Strong knowledge of Data Warehousing methodologies and concepts, including star and snow flake schemas, ETL processes, dimensional modeling and reporting tools.  • Experienced with aggregation using OLAP analysis services cube.  • Strong experience in creating various reports like Drill through, Drill down and Ad-hoc according to the user requirement using SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS).  • Expert in Database Normalization, Optimization and Tuning, Backup/Restore, Data Import/Export, Trouble shooting, and Database Objects authorization.  • Strong hands on experience Implementing Dash boarding, data visualization, and analytics Using tableau desktop and server.  • Good experience on in Tableau dashboard designing with large data volumes from various data source (SQL server, Teradata etc.)  • Experienced in database activities like Maintenance and Performance Monitoring and Tuning using tools such as Index Tuning Wizard, SQL Profiler and Troubleshooting.  • Extensive knowledge in design of logical and physical data modeling using Erwin tool and consistency check using DBCC utilities.  • Proficient in implementing surrogate key generation strategy in the Data warehouse.  • Experienced in creating Jobs, Alerts, SQL Mail Agent, Scheduling SSIS packages.  • Organized professional with excellent oral and written communication skills, excellent presentation, interpersonal skills, problem solving skills, fast learner and also adept quickly new technology with ability to take new roles in minimum time and little training. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience SQL Developer SSIS, SSRS, SSAS, Tableau Desktop February 2018 to June 2019 Software Tools online training    • Tableau advance visualization training  • Business intelligence studio (SSIS, SSRS, SSAS)  • Data modeling    Tools & Technologies: SQL Server 2016/2014, SSIS, SSRS, SSAS, MS Office, Notepad++, Tableau Desktop 2018.02 Software Engineer /SQL BI Developer SP Global Solutions April 2016 to June 2018 SP Global Solutions team is made up of the industry's best and brightest software engineers and technology consultants whose expertise spans from niche technologies' to the latest technologies and built-to-scale enterprise applications. Team members share a passion for pushing the limits of the technology frontier and an unwavering commitment to quality' efficiency and innovation.    Duties and Responsibilities:  • Working under supervision of senior software engineer and systems analyst to gain hands-on experience in performing the analysis, design, programming, development, testing/QA, implementation, installation, configuration, deployment, migration, customization and support, report generation and system documentation of SQL Server database systems and software.  • Work with development team members to perform database systems and software requirements gathering, analysis, designing, development, testing/QA and implementation;  • Developing and implementing Schema Database diagrams, Tables structures and maintain the relationships with constraints and indexes as per business logic.  • Developing and implementing stored procedures, User Defined Functions (UDF), views, Joins and system defined functions, Temp Tables, Table Variables etc.  • Enhancing system/ software performance by increasing database query performance, resolving the errors in script level and used Transactions.  • Developing and implement and Scripts to Imported and Exported data from text files and excel spread sheets into SQL Server 2014/2016 database using SSIS package.  • Automate the SSIS jobs and email alerts using SQL server agent job for daily, weekly and monthly loads.  • Using transformations like Derived Column, Conditional Split, Aggregate, Row Count, Lookup, sort and Data Conversion to load data into Data Warehouse.  • Gather requirements and design of data warehouse and data mart entities.  • Develop System logging and Custom logging on task and package level.  • Implemented Package Template and Package configurations.  • Used SSIS to create ETL Packages to validate, extract, transform and load data to data warehouse databases, data mart databases  • Generated packages using different Transformations like Lookups, Derived Column, Merge Join, Fuzzy Lookup, For Loop, For Each Loop, Conditional Split, Union all, Script component and etc.  • Design, develop and deploy reports in MS SQL Server environment using SSRS-2014/2016.  • Working in Data Extraction Transformation and loading into staging tables, validate the records on staging tables through validation process then valid records are insert into production tables.  • Use reporting objects like Tabular, Matrix, Sub report, Charts, Parameterized and Cascading parameterized reports using SSRS-2014/ 2016.  • Responsible for ongoing maintenance and change management to existing reports and optimize report performance in SSRS-2014/2016.  • Creating Report subscriptions to store the reports at shared locations at schedule time.  • Experience on rendering the Reports in the form PDF, Excel and CSV formats.  • Generating sub report, drill down, drill through, Parameterized, Cascade parameters, Report Expressions and custom code.  • Created Tableau Dashboards with interactive views, trends and drill downs along with user level security.  • Extracted data from different sources connecting them and used the same to create dashboard  • Created Tableau scorecards, dashboards using stack bars, bar graphs, scattered plots, geographical maps.  • Published Workbooks by creating user filters so that only appropriate teams can view it  • Performed Unit Testing and integration testing on the completion of Development for requirement.  • Involved with the client interaction for functional and Technical clarifications and solutions.  • Involved in resolving the Production issues and deployment Process with DBA's while deploying to different environments.  • Preparing Technical design documents (TDD), Code Review, Promotional and Deployment Process Documents.  • Work closely with team members and business partners for the overall success of the Project. SSIS, SSRS, SSAS, Tableau Desktop 2014 to 2016 10.0, Tableau Server 9.0, MS Office, Notepad++, SSAS, , SQL Server Profiler, PL/SQL, C#, Visual Basic, SQL Scripts, XML, SQL Analyzer, SQL Reports, MS Excel, T-SQL, SQL*Loader, SQL*Plus, , Erwin, , Oracle, MS PowerPoint, MS Projects, Unix, Windows, etc. Education Bachelor of Technology in Engineering JNTU University September 2013 to May 2017 Skills SSRS, Sql Server, T-SQL, ETL, Ssis, Business Intelligence (3 years)