UI Developer UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> UI Developer - Anthem Inc Indianapolis, IN • 6+ Years of professional experience in Applications design, Development, Integration, Maintenance, Installation, Implementation, testing of various client/server, N-tier and web application and its design, using various UI TECHNOLOGIES.  • Extensive experience in developing web page quickly and effectively using HTML5, CSS3, Angular Material, AngularJS, (Angular 2/ 4/ 5/ 6), Responsive Web Design (RWD), Bootstrap and experience in making web pages cross browser compatible.  • In-Depth knowledge/Experience of Web 2.0, JavaScript, jQuery, CSS3, W3C Standards.  • Expertise in debugging and troubleshooting existing code.  • Experienced with implementing different features of Bootstrap.  • Good knowledge in Backbone.js and Responsive Design.  • Good Knowledge on how to implement User-centered design (UCD) methodology.  • Developed Hybrid mobile apps using the Ionic framework  • Experience using AJAX to create interactive web applications, mainly focusing at increasing performance.  • Experience on working with CSS Backgrounds, CSS Layouts, CSS Preprocessors (SASS, LESS), CSS Animations  • Experience with creating and consuming RESTful services  • Expertise in developing various JavaScript frameworks like Angular.js Backbone.js, Node.js, Ext.JS, Responsive web design. (RWD).  • Experience in working with third party web services APIs and Web Services using AJAX and jQuery.  • Experience with High charts JavaScript framework and used it to present the data in charts  • Experience in making Responsive web pages using Twitter Bootstrap and media queries.  • Implemented Presentation layer using CSS Framework, AngularJS, Backbone.js, knockout JS, Wire-framing, HTML5.  • Experience working with testing tools like Firebug, Firebug Lite, Chrome or Safari Web Inspectors and IE Developer Toolbar  • Expertise in using application server Gulp, Grunt.  • Involved in daily SCRUM meetings to keep track of the ongoing project status and issues.  • Excellent problem identification skills through JUnit, Jasmine, Chai, Mocha.  • Excellent experience in developing web pages complying with Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) and ability to apply W3C web standards  • Have excellent analytical, problem solving, communication and interpersonal skills, with an ability to interact with individuals at all levels and can work as a part of a team as well as independently.  • Hands on experience with Web Responsive using Bootstrap's templates  • Experience in documentation using MS tools (Word, Excel, PPT, Project and Access).  • Expert in creating Templates, Mockups and Prototypes, Web Interfaces, Layouts and Flow of future pages.  • Strong designers skills and expertise in using Adobe Photoshop and Adobe Illustrator Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience UI Developer Anthem Inc - Indianapolis, IN January 2019 to Present Description: Anthem is a payer in health care world and one of the largest health benefits companies in the United States. Through its affiliated health plans, Anthem companies deliver a number of leading health benefit solutions through a broad portfolio of integrated health care plans and related services, along with a wide range of specialty products such as life and disability insurance benefits, dental, vision, behavioral health benefit services, as well as long-term care insurance and flexible spending accounts    Responsibilities:  • Involved in Requirement gathering phase to gather the requirements from the business users and dealing with UX team to continuous accommodate changing user requirements. Expertise in client side designing and validations using HTML5, Angular 5.X/ Angular 6, CSS3, JavaScript, Typescript, and ag-grid.  • Worked on the modernization of a legacy and outsourced UI. Technologies used were Angular 5.x and other supporting libraries.  • Worked effectively in a fast-paced Agile (Scrum/Sprint) Development methodology to meet tight deadlines  • Designed and developed the Presentation layer using Angular and Angular Material  • Designed and implemented the enhanced development platform by doing POC using frameworks like AngularJS, NodeJS, NPM, and Spring MVC Rest API. Embedded new NPM build with in maven build to reduce the impact of current build process and help run builds seamlessly on the existing infrastructure  • Created calendar layout using the angular-calendar, which integrated with, backed to give the loan data in the tooltip popover to navigate to different pages.  • Used Angular as a framework to create a Single Page Application (SPA) which can bind data to specific views and synchronized data with server  • Designed and developed various Screens using Angular 5/ Angular 6, JavaScript, HTML, and CSS.  • Developing Interactive Prototypes from Photoshop designs using HTML5, CSS3, LESS, JQuery, JavaScript, Bootstrap & Media Queries  • Develop the build script using GRUNT task runner and build the project with different tasks to JSHINT, JSCS, Concat, Uglify, Annotate, and Rev the CSS and JS files  • Created and modified new and existing pages, applied new styles on the pages with the help of Angular 5.x, RXJS, and Typescript.  • Using Jasmine framework to write unit tests to test all the angular directives, controllers, services and factories by using Karma to run these tests  • Utilized ng-aria options in Angular for better accessibility of application and validated with screen readers.  • Integrated front end with the backend Micro services, which, enabled to work in the dynamic environment setup.  • Developed page layouts, Navigations and presented designs and concepts to the clients and the management review.  • Implemented responsive web design and mobile friendly design using hybrid Ionic framework and Angular  • Developed extensive responsive web pages for mobile application  • Visualized and created tables to get the data using ag-grid framework.  • Implemented CSS3 and JavaScript based navigation system visually identical to previous table-based system to improve ease of maintenance and search engine placement.  • Used the Google Chrome Developer Tools, Firebug, to view and debug HTML, DOM and JavaScript.  • Create complex JIRA workflows including project workflows, screen schemes, permission scheme and notification schemes in JIRA  • Collaborated extensively with the UX team to get up-to-date mockup's and creatives and with QA/UAT teams for bug tracking and bug fixing  • Worked closely with Performance Test team for UI performance and validated enhancements using various JavaScript Profilers.  • Worked on AWS (S2) to integrate the picture files to the UI  • Worked upon the dashboard for the project which contained a variety of charts and drag able components using jQuery UI library  • Worked on Build tools such as angular-cli.  • Used Web services (RESTful) for transmission of large blocks of XML/JSON  • Used Jenkins tools for Continuous Integration (CI) & Continuous Deployment (CD).  • Using GIT version control system  • Worked with the team of architects and back end Developers to gather requirements, enhance the application functionality, and add new features.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, Typescript, Restful Web services, Scrum/Agile, Angular Material, Angular 6/Angular 5, ag-grid, Node.js, RxJS, D3.JS, Jquery, Bootstrap 4.0, NPM, Bower, Grunt, Jasmine, Photoshop, WCAG2.0, AWS, JSON, DOM, Windows. UI Developer Caterpillar Inc - Peoria, IL January 2018 to December 2018 Description: Caterpillar is the world's leading manufacturer of construction and mining equipment, diesel and natural gas engines, industrial gas turbines and diesel-electric locomotives. Caterpillar Inc. owns a complex portfolio of brands whose roles and relationships support the growth to achieve the enterprise goals. The Caterpillar brand is use in communication to represent the corporation with the investment community, employees, public policy makers, and other key stakeholders.    Responsibilities:  • Responsible for creating efficient design and developing User Interaction Responsive web pages using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, Jquery, Ajax and JSON.  • Using Mocha, chai for testing the developed API's  • Involved in Enhancement of existing application utilizing AngularJS, developed routing through web pages and achieved Single page application (SPA). Used AngularJS to achieve two-way data binding.  • Included JSON for massive data transfer between Client/Server. According to different component coding structure, AJAX calls were consumed by XMLHttpRequest object (JavaScript) and $http service (AngularJS).  • Leveraged two way data binding through $scope in applications built on AngularJS  • Implemented different validation control on the web pages using AngularJS.  • Created Custom UI screens by using XSL and XML data from Quick base reports  • Used MVC Framework Angular.js in the development for data binding and to consume REST ful web services  • Used Session storage to store the values with in the browser and ensure the security with siteMInder.  • Developed Angular custom directives to make them integrate with Oracle Web Center sites.  • Used Jira to track the user stories and defects with agile technology.  • Involved working with UX Designers and helped them in developing some efficient designs through card sorting techniques  • Initiated separate local environment setup for UI using Source Tree, Bitbucket, Bower and Grunt  • Involved in developing a data dash boarding site using AngularJS  • Working with CSS3 pre-processors such as SASS, less  • Used Stash repository to check in the code with GIT.  • As a part of the CICD pipeline, the application was deploy in to AWS EC2 Containers and stored the pipeline logs in S3 buckets.  • Involved in Wireframe creation and converted the wireframes into HTML and CSS based prototypes  • Maintained AWS EC2 instances in both east and west regions  • Worked on Drupal for content management of the website and database handling on the server side  • Used Jasmine for Unit testing each Component and used Karma for processing the testing procedure  • Exchanged data with the help of JSON files to exchange data between server and client.  • Managed time effectively meeting all the deadlines for the release of projects.  • Worked on multiple project timelines simultaneously within a deadline driven environment.  • Developed, modified, and implemented the Web site to ensure consistency of layout in accordance with client goals.    Environment: HTML5/4, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, AngularJS/ Angular 2, Angular material, MVC, RESTful web services, JSON, TDD, Jasmin/Karma, Gulp, AJAX, Bower, Agile, Drupal, AWS, GIT, SQL UI Developer Walmart Inc - Bentonville, AR November 2015 to December 2017 Description: Walmart is an American multinational retail corporation that operates a chain of hypermarkets, discount department stores and grocery stores. Headquartered in Bentonville, Arkansas, United States, the company founded by Sam Walton    Responsibilities:  • Gathered and analyzed all necessary requirements by involving in discussion sessions.  • Co-ordinate with BA group for better understanding of functional requirements, Analyze, Design the business requirements to document, and implement.  • Created & worked on AngularJS modules, controllers, services & filters  • Designed and implemented a SPA (Single Page Application) in AngularJS.  • Design and development of web pages using AngularJS, PHP, HTML5, CSS3 including Ajax controls and XML.  • Involved in writing the properties, methods in the Class Modules and developed web services using HTTP.  • Played a vital role in defining, implementing and enforcing quality practices in the team organization to ensure internal controls, quality and compliance policies and standards.  • Used JS for custom client-side validation and DOM manipulations.  • Worked with View State to maintain data between the pages of the application.  • Successfully wrote and implemented SQL Queries, Stored procedures and Triggers in SQL SERVER.  • Analyzed and created Stored Procedures, Functions, Triggers and Packages.  • Implemented strategies for unit and functional tests with Jasmine and Selenium WebDriver  • Implemented JavaScript task runner Gulp to automate the tasks like modification of the files, compiling SASS to CSS  • Migrated my department from a physical data center environment to AWS. Also designed, built, and deployed multitude applications utilizing almost the entire AWS stack (Including EC2).  • Created templates, menus, pages, categories, blocks using Drupal and Used Drupal Views module for controlling the presentation of lists of content  • Coded UIs as XHTML, CSS and JAVASCRIPT, analyzed processes, produced UI wireframes, created storyboards, UI prototypes  • Converted the Photoshop mockups in to hand-written HTML and CSS pages.  • Created required Views, Indexes and Clusters.  • Created database triggers to implement business rules and writing stored procedures.  • Created packages to do complex aggregations on large volume of data and loaded the aggregated data into reporting tables in data marts.  • Involved in Agile/SCRUM based approach to UI Development  • Wrote UNIX Korn shell scripts to automate the batch process.  • Created migration document and supported the migration of packages and objects to production environment.    Environment: PHP, AJAX, HTML, CSS, AngularJS, MySQL, HTML, Drupal, Jasmine, Gulp, Selenium, Agile Methodology, AWS, JavaScript and WINDOWS XP Software Developer SunLight IT Solutions - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2012 to May 2015 Sunlight IT aim is to provide unique and high-level quality services of the Internet to our customers across the globe with the effective and easy-to-use products that supported by unmatched customer service. We create strategically designed websites, and then place them directly in front of your target audience we provide access to the state of art in internet marketing to give you comprehensive solution customized to your business needs    Responsibilities:  • Performed all levels of web development tasks, including HTML, CSS, XHTML and scripting, graphic design, PHP oriented database design/ development, testing, content management, and site traffic analysis.  • Developed UI using JavaScript, HTML, CSS, JavaScript validations and XML.  • Development and enhancement of new and existing Web applications.  • Paired Programing has done few of the Enhancements.  • Managing the version control for the deliverables by streamlining and re-basing the development streams of SVN.  • Worked closely with system analyst to understand the technical requirements of the projects  • Design and development of Web pages using HTML, CSS including Ajax controls and XML.  • Involved in writing the Properties, methods in the Class Modules and consumed web services.  • Played a vital role in defining, implementing and enforcing quality practices in the team organization to ensure internal controls, quality and compliance policies and standards.  • Used JavaScript for custom client-side validation.  • Involved in designing and developing the GUI for the user interface with various controls.  • Worked with View State to maintain data between the pages of the application.  • Knowledge Management and Offshore-Onshore Coordination and Stakeholder Management    Environment: HTML, CSS, MySQL, JavaScript, AJAX and Windows XP Education Masters in Computer Science in Computer Science Western Illinois University Bachelor of Technology in Computer Science Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University Skills GUI, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, BOOTSTRAP, NODE.JS, Angular, CSS3, Front-End, Front End, HTML5, Node, UI Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Web Technologies: HTML/HTML5, CSS/ CSS3, XML, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, DOM, DOJO, GUI, Responsive Web Design, JSON, SASS, and LESS.  Developer Tools: Web Storm, Adobe Dreamweaver, Notepad ++, Eclipse, Net Beans.  Methodologies: Agile/Scrum, Waterfall, TDD  JavaScript Libraries: JQuery UI, Require.JS, AngularJS, Angular 2/4/5/6, Node.JS, Bootstrap, Ember JS, Knockout JS, backbone.js, Handlebar.js, Jasmin, Karma, Mocha and Chai  Debugging Tools: Fire bug, Dev Tools, Fiddler, Chrome  Cloud: AWS  Data Access: MY SQL, Oracle, MongoDB, SQL server  Web Servers: Tomcat, Apache, WebLogic