Lead Software Developer Lead <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Lead Software Developer - DARTNet Institute Parker, CO I am an experienced developer with a background in ASP.NET development aspects in a business application context. My expertise includes all stages of SDLC ( Software Development Life Cycle), involving studying of the user requirements, analyzing, designing, coding, implementation, debugging, testing, deployment and documentation across educational, healthcare and research industry/work environments. I am proficient in a variety of platforms and systems. In addition to my technical skills, I am a great communicator and team player. My ability to communicate well enables me to work effectively with coworkers and clients to identify business objectives and requirements for applications. Work Experience Lead Software Developer DARTNet Institute - Aurora, CO September 2018 to Present • Responsible for analysis, design, implementation, management and maintenance of full software development lifecycle (SDLC) project.  • Interacted with the users/clients for understanding and gathering business requirements.  • Develop standards and procedures related to software development.  • Design, code, test, deploy and maintain software applications using .NET framework in shared SQL environment for clinical, research and administrative purpose.  • Improve, enhance and maintain legacy C#.NET and VB.NET web and windows applications for various research studies.  • Use ASP.Net Telerik Rad Controls, DevExpress and Infragistics controls for various projects.  • Creating and managing schema objects such as tables, views, indexes, stored procedures, and triggers & maintaining Referential Integrity.  • Created Stored Procedures, Views, Triggers and Complex T-SQL queries in SQL Server.  • Reverse engineer existing database systems and understanding various Electronic Medical Record (EMR) database schemas.  • Standardizing, coding, and aggregating large datasets from various EHR systems.  • Write various queries, stored procedures and views against Electronic Health Record (EHR) database back ends including All scripts Enterprise/Pro EMR, GE Centricity EMR, e-MD's Chart, EPIC Ambulatory EMR, EHS EMR, and others.  • Develop ETL solutions for legacy and new development from multiple sources (internal transactional databases, external daily transaction files from clients, authorize .Net API, etc.) including database performance tuning.  • Extracting, Transforming and Loading (ETL) data from Excel, Flat file, Oracle to MS SQL Server by using BCP utility, DTS and SSIS services.  • Creating simple and parameterized reports and complex reports involving Sub Reports, Matrix/Tabular Reports, Charts and Graphs using, Crystal Reports and SSRS in Business intelligence development studio (BIDS).  • Writing expressions to create many Drill through and Drilldown reports and fine-tuning existing reports using SSRS.  • Create SSIS packages to populate data from various data sources.  • Deploy, Maintain and processed SSAS cube to update information by using SQL Server Agent.  • Working in a collaborative development environment, providing assistance & technical guidance to fellow team members.  • Work with source control products TFS(Team Foundation Server), Source Tree, Jira, Bitbucket, Git, Azure DevOps  • Track the status of issues/tasks in Jira and provide updates to the team. Senior Software Developer University of Colorado - Aurora, CO September 2014 to September 2018 • Design, code, test, deploy and maintain software applications using .NET framework in shared SQL environment for clinical, research, educational and administrative purpose.  • Upgrade, maintain and support legacy C#.NET and VB.NET windows and web based applications.  • Use ASP.Net Telerik Rad Controls, DevExpress and Infragistics controls for various projects.  • Reverse engineer existing database systems and understanding various Electronic Medical Record (EMR) database schemas.  • Standardizing, coding, and aggregating large datasets from various EHR systems.  • Write various queries, stored procedures and views against Electronic Health Record database back ends including All scripts Enterprise/Pro EMR, GE Centricity EMR, e-MD's Chart, EPIC Ambulatory EMR, EHS EMR, and others.  • Develop ETL solutions for legacy and new development from multiple sources (internal transactional databases, external daily transaction files from clients, authorize .Net API, etc.) including database performance tuning.  • Support SharePoint Custom web parts, event handler, custom workflow, and portal build on Microsoft SharePoint Server 2007 and 2010 platform.  • Design and develop database systems using Microsoft SQL Server.  • Design and develop reports using SSRS, Crystal reports, Telerik and jasper soft reporting tools.  • Create Views and SQL scripts for data analysis and reporting.  • Create, maintain and facilitate operation of various relational databases. Write effective stored procedures and Views as required.  • Write various PowerShell and WinSCP scripts for data transfer and batch processing.  • Write PHP scripts for Tablet Surveys to facilitate Clinical Research.  • Data Loading in SQL Server using SSIS ETL and developing packages in SSIS and DTS according to task.  • Created and maintained SSIS packages to Import/Export data from flat files, XML, Excel and Oracle.  • Data analysis and data migration by transferring them using SSIS packages.  • Install, Configure and administer various SQL Servers.  • Write ETL Rule queries in PostgreSQL.  • Upload and Extract data from PostgreSQL.  • Data Loading in postgresSQL using inhouse application (ROSITA).  • Setup, develop, stage and implement production servers.  • Support and Maintain third party applications (KPN): Mapping UI, PE Scheduler and databases in various client sites.  • Support production servers and daily batch processing.  • Work with source control products GIT and Team Foundation Server (TFS).  • Mentor other developers and coworkers as required.  • Track the status of issues/tasks in Jira and provide updates to the team. Software Development Specialist University of Colorado - Aurora, CO March 2012 to September 2014 • Develop standards and procedures related to software development.  • Design, code, test, deploy and maintain software applications using .NET framework in shared SQL environment for clinical, research, educational and administrative purpose.  • Design, develop, deploy and support SharePoint Custom web parts, event handler, custom workflow, and portal build on Microsoft SharePoint Server 2007 and 2010 platform.  • Improve, enhance and maintain legacy C#.NET and VB.NET web and windows applications for various research studies.  • Worked on bug analysis and elimination.  • Design and develop database systems using Microsoft SQL Server.  • Install, Configure and administer various SQL Servers.  • Setup, develop, stage and implement production servers.  • Create, maintain and facilitate operation of various relational databases. Write effective stored procedures and views as required.  • Data Loading in SQL Server using SSIS ETL and developing packages in SSIS and DTS according to task.  • Design and develop reports using SSRS, Crystal reports and Telerik reporting tools.  • Create Views and SQL scripts for data analysis and reporting.  • Support production servers and daily batch processing.  • Write various PowerShell and WinSCP scripts for data transfer and batch processing.  • Write PHP scripts for Tablet Surveys to facilitate Clinical Research Study.  • Support and Maintain third party applications (KPN): Mapping UI, PE Scheduler in various client sites.  • Track the status of issues/tasks in Jira and provide updates to the team.  • Maintaining the version control in GIT and Team Foundation Server (TFS).  • Perform as both individual contributor and mentor for other developers as required. Software Developer University of Colorado - Aurora, CO November 2011 to March 2012 • Develop and support SharePoint Custom web parts, event handler, custom workflow, and portal build on Microsoft SharePoint Server 2007 and 2010 platform.  • Design, develop and test code for desktop, web and distributed applications.  • Test and deploy thick client, web, and telephony applications.  • Design, implement and maintain SQL databases.  • Write stored procedures, performance tune, and develop data models in a SQL Server environment.  • Design and develop reports using SSRS and Crystal reports.  • Provide tech support and maintenance for active production applications.  • Contributed coding for a variety of existing applications.  • Work with source control products Microsoft Visual Source Safe and Team Foundation Server (TFS). Senior Computer Analyst University Technology Services, University of Denver - Denver, CO March 2010 to November 2011 • Identify, diagnose, and resolve faculties/staffs and student's laptop hardware and software issues.  • Configure DU wired and wireless connections.  • Formatting PC, Upgrading/Installing Windows and Mac OS.  • Installing vivid software's.  • Troubleshoot network issues. Assist users with lab desktops, printer and scanner issues.  • Track and closure to problem ticket/service requests while meeting or exceeding defined service level expectations. Education Masters in Applied Sciences in (MS), Information and Communication Technology University of Denver - Denver, CO January 2009 to June 2011 Bachelors in Electronics and Communication Engineering in Electronics and Communication Engineering Visveswaraiah Technological University - Bengaluru, Karnataka September 2002 to July 2006 Skills DATABASE, MS SQL SERVER, SQL SERVER, ORACLE, PL/SQL, POSTGRESQL, SQL, MS SHAREPOINT, SHAREPOINT, SSRS, TEAM FOUNDATION SERVER, .NET, MS VISUAL STUDIO, VISUAL STUDIO, C#, C++, CLIENT/SERVER, Git, HTML, JAVASCRIPT