Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer Salt Lake, UT Work Experience Software Developer TaskEasy - Salt Lake City, UT March 2016 to August 2019 Built multiple micro services using Python 3, Flask, SQLAlchemy, and Docker. They were developed in an STA Architecture which  allowed them to be easily tested with Unittest, Pytest, Mocking, and Hypothesis. Amazon's S3, EC2, and ECS Registry were used to handle data,  deploying, and running the services. Occasionally assigned front end pieces  that included React, Redux, Jest, and Bootstrap technologies. Worked on the TaskEasy main application that used Java 7, Play Framework 1.2.7, MVC  architecture, JUnit and Mockito. Software Developer Repiscore, Inc - Salt Lake City, UT June 2014 to January 2016 Hired on as first employee and assisted in the selection of other employees. Implemented a service oriented architecture using  Python 3, CherryPy, and MongoDB. Created web scrapers and automated  tests using Requests and Selenium Python 3 packages. Assisted UI/UX  development using CSS3/HTML5, Javascript, and Handlebars. Teacher's Assistant University of Utah September 2012 to September 2013 Classes: Intro To Algorithms & Data Structures, Intro To Object Oriented  Programming, and Intro To Computer Science.  Duties: Grading, Tutoring, Lab presentations, and Administrative  coursework. GREAT Camps Instructor University of Utah June 2013 to August 2013 Taught teens programming skills in Processing and Python. We extensively  used the Pygame library. Education B.S. in Computer Science University Of Utah - Salt Lake City, UT May 2014 Skills C#, C++, Docker, Git, Html, Javascript, Bootstrap, Redux, Python, Flask, Ruby, Java, Mongodb, Unit testing, Rest, Linux, Css, Mysql, Architecture Additional Information Skills  Python 3, Virtualenv, Flask, SQLAlchemy, STA Architecture, REST, Linux, Git,  Java, MongoDB, Unit Testing, React.js, Redux, Docker, AWS, Intellij, Emacs,  Ruby, MySQL, JavaScript, Play Framework, Bootstrap, HTML, CSS, C#, C++.