Job Seeker Crest Hill, IL I am an Information Technologist. I offer a wide variety of skills within the software and automated/manual testing space of Information Technology. The main focus is to create software test applications or assist with fixes needed within the software for businesses. The business model is to create quality software repairs and develop tests that will enable the businesses to recognize issues quickly during the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) by producing clear and concise results. Work Experience STS Technical Services (GOGO) September 2018 to Present • Operating as Maintenance control for Airlines. This job involves troubleshooting aircraft in flight entertainment systems over the phone, routing aircraft and utilizing SNOW ticketing platform to control discrepancies for the organization.  • Loading software  • Using putty to configure hardware  • Researching documentation for Aircraft Maintenance use  • Maintaining over a 1000 aircraft via a SNOW application Software Developer QA BCBS August 2014 to September 2018 • Set file paths to different locations for external and internal companies on a java platform  • Partially established the Aptitude Development Environment for the team  • Created complex rules that captured information from the Data Lake, transformed the data via series of complex rules and micro-flows: presented the within the Development environment (Aptitude)  • Created test cases as required  • Navigated within the Unix domain as needed  • As a content manger assistant, I helped maintain HTML, CSS and create minor functionalities displayed within the User Interface  • Created Selenium Application to automate testing for CA Portal  • Analyzed functionality and created manual test cases for inbound traffic as well as UI to ensure values and functionality is correct  • Developed a small portion of Boeing Cast light project that recognized key piece of data and populated link when the data is recognized and disappears when the value isn't presznt (Spring Framework and Java)  • Provided test status reports to the UAT and project team.  • Tested the application's business logic using Business Requirements Specification Documents and tested functionality of application with Functional Requirements Specification Documents.  • Involved in Test Plan preparation and developed Test Cases in accordance with the functional specifications.  • Wrote multiple SQL queries to analyze the data output by the application.  • Verified table structure according to the updated mapping document.  • Reviewed the test cases/executions done by the team.  • Obtained expertise in testing effort estimation.  • Prepared Weekly and Daily Status Reports for the Management Team.  • Tracked and logged defects in Quality Center and participated in meetings with developers and Business Analysts to prioritize bugs and resolve pressing issues.  • Established Traceability between the Requirements and the Tests in Traceability Matrix using Quality Center.  • Organized and managed all phases of the software testing process, including test planning, executing test scripts, and tracking defects.  • Monitor logs on the UNIX servers to debug issues and identify fatal errors.  • Complete defect-reporting and defect-tracking using tool like Jira, ALM/ Quality Center Software Engineer II Peterson Technology February 2014 to August 2014 • Wrote to populate messaging for regionally priced items utilizing Angular JS  • Wrote and tested functionality that managed the store hours for customers would know store times.  • Assisted with bundle items by writing the CSS for bundles  • Moved written code from into different environments utilizing Github  Quality Assurance at Peterson Technology 01/2013-02/2014  • Smoke Tests  • Regression Tests  • Wrote Test Cases  • Reported results to Development Education University learned February 2018 American Airlines Maintenance Academy Bachelors in Software Engineering Colorado Technical University