Full Stack Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Developer - Bank of New York New York, NY • 4+ Years of extensive IT experience in web application analysis, design, development and deployment of enterprise application with strong hold on Object Oriented JAVA/J2EE and Client Server technologies.  • Experienced in Analysis, Design, Development, Testing and Implementation of software including Client Server application.  • Expertise in developing applications using Java, J2EE Standards, Java, Servlet programming, EJB, JSP, Struts, Spring, JDBC, JMS, JNDI, XML, UML, ANT, Hibernate, Oracle, SQL Server, MVC Architecture, Web Services, AJAX, Maven, SOAP, HTML, LOG4J, Java Beans, JavaScript and DHTML.  • Experience in working on various spring modules (Spring MVC, Spring DAO, Spring AOP, Spring Boot) along with Hibernate back-end ORM tool for implementation of persistence layer and mapping of POJOs.  • Experience in using J2EE applications on different IDE's like Eclipse and NetBeans.  • Expertise in XML (SAX, DOM), XSL, XSLT, XML Schema, DTD, Custom Tags, and JavaScript.  • Expertise in Core java concepts likes OOPS, Data structures & algorithms, Collections, Swing, Event handling, Multithreading, Garbage Collector, Exceptional handling, Generics, I/O and java, Lang Package.  • Excellent in designing the front-end pages using scripting languages like Angular.JS, JSP, HTML5, Ajax, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery Node.js and its libraries.  • Good knowledge with Grunt task runner and installed latest version of libraries with Bower based on running in the Node.JS environment.  • Good exposure and experience with Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) such as Web Services including SOAP, WSDL, JMS (Java Messaging Service) and AJAX.  • Proficient in using Object Oriented Programming Analysis and Design (OOAD) principles, UML and Rational Rose and Object Oriented Design Patterns in building high performance applications.  • Experience in configuring and deploying web applications using Tomcat web server and application servers like Web Logic, IBM Web Sphere, JBOSS and developed deployment descriptors for the EJB to deploy on.  • Expertise in using JUnit in performing unit test and Log4j for logging errors  • Well experience in Design and Development of database systems using RDBMS concepts including Oracle, PostgreSQL, MySQL and experience in writing SQL queries, PL/SQL, T-SQL, Stored procedures, prepared statements and triggers.  • Experience working in agile methodology and involved in scrum meetings every day to discuss the Sprint status, technical difficulties and blockers.  • Excellent analytical, logical and programming skills and a good Team Player with minimal supervision and effective Communication and Organizational skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Full Stack Developer Bank of New York - New York, NY August 2018 to Present Environment: J2EE, Servlets, spring MVC, Spring Boot, Hibernate, Multi-Threading, Angular.js, Bootstrap, Node.js, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JMS, DAO, Rest, WebLogic, EJB, JSON, AJAX, Apache Tomcat, SQL, PL/SQL, Oracle, Windows.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including analysis, design, development, and testing of the project.  • Used spring framework applications like Spring Core, Spring AOP, Spring MVC, Spring Batch, Spring Security and Spring Boot and did integration to Micro services into existing system architecture.  • Used Spring AOP for solving crosscutting concerns like keeping logged data and transactions details etc.  • Used Spring Boot to create stand-alone spring applications.  • Used Spring MVC framework for implementing Model-View- Controller (MVC) architecture at the Web tier level to isolate each layer of the application so that complexity of integration will be reduced, and maintenance will be very easy.  • Implemented Spring Boot services in combination with Angular as front end to form a Micro Service Oriented application.  • Used Spring ORM Hibernate Template as the ORM tool to communicate with the database.  • Used Object/Relational mapping tool Hibernate and JPA to achieve object to database table persistency.  • Developed Hibernate POJO Classes, Hibernate Configuration file and Hibernate Mapping files.  • Angular JS was used to parse the JSON file using the REST Web services.  • Used multithreading in programming to improve overall performance using Singleton design pattern in Hibernate Utility class.  • Created set of classes using DAO pattern to decouple the business logic and data.  • Implemented SOA to develop REST Based Web services using Apache Tomcat.  • Developed rich and complex Responsive Web User Interface using HTML5/XHTML, JavaScript, CSS3, XML, JavaScript, JQuery, Angular.JS, Node.JS and Bootstrap.  • Used HTML5, JQuery, Angular.js and CSS3 to design the front end components.  • Implemented and used Rest Web Services with the help of JAX-RS to get updates from the third parties.  • Used JMS for the asynchronous exchange of critical business data and events among J2EE components and legacy system.  • Involved in creating and extracting data from database using SQL Queries, PL/SQL Stored procedures, triggers, and packages on Oracle database.  • Wrote EJBStateless session to communicate with Controller and Service layer i.e. make the EJB calls from Backing Beans.  • Implemented Log4J for Logging Errors, debugging and tracking using loggers, appenders components.  • Used AJAX to call the REST API methods and connect to the backend. Restful web services have been used to retrieve and update the data using this AJAX.  • Monitored team members to follow standards, guide lines and use new tools. Full Stack Developer LPL Financial - San Diego, CA November 2017 to July 2018 Environment: Java/J2EE, Spring MVC, Hibernate, JavaScript, JSP, JSTL, Angular.js, JQuery, HTML5, CSS3, JBOSS, JDBC, SOAP, ANT, EJB, Log4J, PL/SQL, SQL, Oracle and Windows.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in Analysis, Design, Development and Maintenance phases of the project with major emphasis on Development of the modules like Activations, Customer Service.  • Involved in component development using J2EE principles and used design patterns such as Singleton, Factory and Data Access Object (DAO) in the implementation of the application.  • Used Spring MVC and Dependency Injection for handling presentation and business logic.  • To maintain loose coupling between layers published the business layer as services and injected necessary dependent components using Spring IOC and published cross cutting concerns like Logging, User Interface exceptions, Transactions using Spring AOP.  • Developed Action Classes, Action Form Classes, created JSPs using Struts tag libraries and configured in Struts config.xml, Web.xml files.  • Integrated Spring DAO for data access using Hibernate.  • Implemented persistence framework using Hibernate and Handled Transaction Management using the provided data source.  • Extensively used JSON to parse the data from server side to satisfy the business requirement.  • Involved in UI level coding using JSP, JavaScript, JQuery, Angular.js, and JSTL.  • Responsible for designing Hibernate mapping files based on business logic and Object relationships.  • Integrated Spring and Hibernate together and worked on developing backend components and services using Hibernate and spring.  • Established Database Connectivity using JDBC, Hibernate O/R mapping with Spring ORM for Oracle.  • Used Multithreading in programming to improve overall performance using Singleton design pattern in Hibernate Utility class.  • Developed Single page application with using Angular.JS with MVC Frame Work.  • Created reusable components and services to consume REST API's using component-based architecture provided by Angular.js.  • Designed and developed UI using HTML5, CSS, Bootstrap CSS, JQuery, JSON and AJAX.  • Used WSDL and SOAP protocol for Web Services implementation.  • Compiled and built the application using ANT scripts and deployed the application.  • Developed and Deployed EJBs and other Components in the JBoss Application Server.  • Configured and created application log files using Log4J.  • Created tables, triggers, PL/SQL Stored Procedures, SQL queries, Joins, constraints and views for Oracle DB.  • Actively participated in daily SCRUM meetings to produce quality deliverables within time. Software Developer Sunmax Systems Pvt Ltd May 2015 to August 2017 Environment: J2EE, EJB (Session Beans), JSP, spring, JMS, XML, Hibernate, Maven, JSON, Rest, IBM WebSphere, Junit, SQL and Windows.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in Requirements gathering, analysis and design and documentation as the application was started from scratch.  • Involved in designing, developing and testing of J2EE components like Java Beans, Java, XML, Collection Framework, JSP, Servlets, JMS, JDBC and deployments in IBM WebSphere Server.  • Effectively developed Action classes, Action forms, JSP, JSF and other configuration files like struts-config.xml, web.xml.  • Used Eclipse as Java IDE tool for creating various J2EE artifacts like Servlets, JSP's and XML.  • Involved in developing Rules to send messages to customs using Rule Processor using JRules.  • Used Spring/MVC framework to enable the interactions between JSP/View layer and implemented different design patterns with J2EE and JSON technology.  • Developed web services technology JAXB to convert XML into java objects.  • Developed the war/ear file using Maven script and deployed into WebSphere Application Server.  • Developed Exception handling code to recover from DB specific, Application specific, Business and Non-business logic specific exceptions.  • Worked on JUnit test cases to test all possible business scenarios with the knowledge of Test First Methodology and Test Driven Development.  • Performed back-end testing on Oracle and SQL Server databases by writing SQL queries to make sure the contents displayed on the UI correct as per requirements specifications.  • Involved in Production support and provided training and knowledge transfer to the user. Education Master's Skills BEA, ECLIPSE, EJB, J2EE, JAVA, Javascript, Angular, Jquery, React, Nodejs, Node, AWS Additional Information Technical Skills:  Java/J2EE Technologies Java, JSP, Servlets/Applets, JDBC, JMS, JSTL, Java Beans, EJB  Web Technologies HTML5, XML, JavaScript, XPath, AJAX, jQuery, CSS3  Methodologies Agile, Waterfall, TDD  Web/Persistence Frameworks Spring, Struts, Hibernate  Bug Tracking Tools BugZilla, Jira  IDE/Scripting Eclipse, Angular.js, Node.js, JavaScript, Bootstrap  App servers IBM WebSphere, Apache Tomcat, BEA Web Logic, JBoss  Databases/Tools Oracle, SQL Server, DB2, MySQL, Toad, PL/SQL Developer  Design/Version Control SVN, GIT  Operating Systems Windows, Linux, UNIX