Developer <span class="hl">Developer</span> Developer - RPA • Around 6+ year of experience in all phases of Software Development life cycle (SDLC) including requirements gathering, analysis, design, Coding, implementation, maintenance and testing using various methodologies like Waterfall, Agile and Scrum.  • RPA experience in tools like Automation Anywhere, Automation Anywhere.  • Based on client test specifications/ requirements, Developed test scripts on Device Anywhere.  • Queries which took too long are optimized by identifying, and to improve the performance.  • Innovatively integrated the advanced features of automation tools like OCR, web recorder for existing robots and improved the performance to the internal and vendor application of the organization.  • Designed and configured the Blue-Prism, Automation Anywhere infrastructure for development.  • Test and live environments, which comprises Interactive clients, Resource PCs, Application servers and Database servers.  • Client-side design and development using JavaScript, XML, HTML, DHTML, CSS.  • Strong in design and integration problem solving skills.  • Hands on experience in Model View Controller (MVC) architecture.  • Have In-Depth knowledge in ExtJS and Cascading Style Sheets (CSS), JavaScript, HTML.  • Hands on experience on Oracle (9i, 10g), IBM DB2, NOSQL, PL/SQL.  • Hands on experience with build tools like ANT, Maven and logging tools like Log4J.  • Good experience in developing user interface using CSS and HTML and AngularJS.  • Implemented several J2EE Design patterns like Model-View-Controller, Business Delegate, Transfer Object, Service Locator, and Singleton during my application development experience.  • Good experience in ASP.NET 4.5.  • Good knowledge in developing application frameworks and understanding of enterprise application frameworks like ASP.NET MVC and Angular JS.  • Thorough understanding and hands on experience on Relational Databases like Oracle, IBM DB2.  • Strong Database development experience in writing functions, procedures, triggers, and views in PL/SQL.  • Well experienced in-service development using Service-Oriented Architecture technologies (SOA) like Web Services/SOAP. Work Experience Developer RPA - Wilmington, DE June 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Analyze the client requirements and define the Acceptance Criteria based on Requirements Document.  • Worked with the Business Analysts in identifying and defining the requirements and documented for client approvals.  • Worked closely with the Senior Developer/Manager and Technical Lead for understanding the functional and technical requirements and design.  • Involved in design, develop and deploy end to end manual process with automated robots.  • Creation, development and maintenance of automated MI Reporting of automation anywhere processes in MS Access and Excel, also looking into running this in MS SQL Server using MS Access front-end.  • Worked on different Licenses in Automation Anywhere, like Development Client License, Run Client License, Control Room License.  • Used the Automation Anywhere Object Recorder to manage and execute windows controls as a background process.  • Analyze the feasibility of existing process suitable for automation.  • Implemented new reporting techniques and facilitated the presentations to the clients.  • Automation anywhere task from version 7 to 9.  • Used various actions like Conditions and Loops, User prompts, Error Logging and commands like Object Cloning, OCR, Key Strokes etc., for coding the automation process.  • Implemented handset Automation framework, scripting and execution Sanity, Regression, Stress and Boundary test cases for mobile applications using Device Automation Anywhere Tool.  • Worked with mainframe, windows, web application and surface automation.  • Good knowledge in building Automation Anywhere Processes and Business Objects for various business systems.  • End to end process automation using Automation Anywhere.  • Has work knowledge in Automation Anywhere User authentication by defining user roles, creating users and setting password policies.  • Coordinate with offshore team during developing, testing and deployment  • Responsible in analysis, design, developing and testing of REST based web services. Also used SOAP UI/POSTMAN for testing.    Environment: Anywhere 9.0, C#, ASP.Net, ADO.Net, Visual Studio, MVC, Silverlight, WCF, WPF, SSRS, SQL Server, CSS, AJAX, HTML. Developer RPA - Cypress, CA February 2017 to May 2018 Responsibilities:  • Involved in identifying the opportunities to automate manual tasks using Robotics Process Automation (RPA) technology, and established Commercial-wide RPA program to deliver the first software bot in production.  • Technology research and tool selection (Automation Anywhere, Blue Prism, UI Path and others)  • Involved in preparing POC (Proof of concept) and BRD (Business requirement Document)  • Data Extraction using Automation Anywhere commands and looping through the values to get each value.  • Designed the SDD (Solution Designed Document) according to BRD by mentioning Process Assumptions, Pre-Requisite and Exceptions.  • Actively participated in Test plan preparation, validated the Client requirements and identified the various Scenarios for Automation Development.  • Used String Operation to Compare and eliminate duplicates from the data. Worked on using Excel and CSV commands with Automation Anywhere.  • Developed robotic bots using automation anywhere to automate process which was done using manual interference.  • Developed and configured automation processes as per the technical design document (TDD) to meet the defined requirements.  • Experience in using Send Email command to Email reports and errors. Worked on Activities using Object Cloning and Manage Web Controls.  • Developed bots which will automate the process like copy from excel to excel, excel to web from and web form to database.  • Performed task scheduling using Automation Anywhere like Schedule Manager and Task Editor  • Utilized the bot framework and contribute towards enhancing it coded error handlers to catch and log errors.    Environment: Automation Anywhere 9.0/10.0, PDF Reader, OCR, MS-Excel, txt File, Xml, Web Services, JavaScript, MS SQL Server 2008, Windows 20007/2010. Net Developer American General Life Insurance - Houston, TX February 2016 to January 2017 Responsibilities:  • Involved in design and Development of Web Application using C#.NET, ASP.NET, ADO.NET and SQL Server.  • Involved in requirement analysis, designing, development and documentation of project using waterfall methodology and deployment of application on IIS.  • Used MVC architecture for client server interaction and built user Interface that separated Application Logic from Presentation code.  • Pioneer activities in Web related Technologies and working on Silverlight for rich internet applications.  • Wrote Queries and stored procedures to extract data from SQL Server and also update Server.  • Involved in generating and exporting SSRS reports.  • Consumed Remote Web services using WCF Service Model and called within Silverlight to implement Data Binding with Silverlight controls  • Worked on ADO.NET to interact with SQL Server databases, ASP.NET Validation controls to validate user inputs, ASP.NET Control Data grid to display profiles.  • Used Session State, View State, Cookies and Query Strings to persist and transfer data between pages.  • Developed CSS for user interface uniformity.  • Used LINQ along with ADO.Net for data retrieving, querying, storage and manipulation of different data sources like XML, SQL.  • Implemented Session state and Cookies for web development and security.  • Designed and Developed Web Services to synchronize data from Remote application database to Online Database using C#.Net, ASP.Net and Visual Studio.Net.  • Performed Unit testing and functional testing and fixed the issues during testing process.  • Troubleshoot the application in production environment without scarifying the up-time and Services.    Environment: C#, ASP.Net, ADO.Net, Visual Studio, MVC, Silverlight, WCF, WPF, SSRS, SQL Server, CSS, AJAX, HTML, JQuery, Java Script, Web Services, Waterfall Methodology, LINQ, LINQ to SQL, LINQ to XML, IIS and Unit testing. Software Engineer Vision Labs - Hyderabad, Telangana August 2012 to June 2015 Responsibilities:  • Analyzed the functional specification and requirements document.  • Involved in the analysis of the Specifications.  • Involved in Database design like creating tables and writing stored procedures.  • Worked with HTML, CSS, AJAX and JQuery to design the Webforms.  • Worked on the client-side validations by using the JavaScript.  • Populated the interfaces with appropriate data based on the data calls using ASP.Net controls to display the data.  • Developed several internal reporting tools for business team using HTML, CSS, and JavaScript (JQuery) for view layer and SQL queries to retrieve/update the data.  • Created Business Logic Layer & Data Access Layers implementing the MVC architecture.  • Involved in creating WCF REST services for various policies and benefits, and consumed them into web applications.  • Maintained the application versioning, bug reporting, merging/ branching of development and production applications using TFS.  • Responsible for deployment of the application in production and resolving various deployment issues.    Environment: .NET Framework 3.5/4.0/4.5, Visual Studio 2012, ASP.NET, C#.NET, VBA.NET, Java script, HTML, CSS, XML, AJAX, Bootstrap, SQL Server 2008/2012. Skills MS SQL SERVER (6 years), SQL (6 years), SQL SERVER (6 years), XML (5 years), .NET (5 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:    Languages C#.Net, Java, Automation Anywhere, Blue Prism V 5.0/4.2  IDE's / SDK's JDBC, JavaBeans, J2EE Technology  DB Servers SQL Server and MySQL.  Development Tools Automation Anywhere Enterprise, Visual Studio 2015/2013/2012, SQL Server Management Studio (SSMS)    Operating Systems MS-DOS, Windows 7, 10, 11.  Web Technologies HTML5, JavaScript, JQuery, XML  Development models MVC, Scrum method of Agile  Automation Tools Automation Anywhere V9.0, Blue Prism V4.2/5.0  Visualization MS Excel, MS Visio.