Senior Software Developer Senior <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Software Developer - Oracle America Work Experience Senior Software Developer Oracle America - Raleigh, NC July 2016 to Present Working as indiviual contributor in core-file system team in OracleFlash Storage Group to provide  stable storage for Oracle cloud infrastructure.  • Built the multi-version optimistic concurrency cache module on top file system based on btree storage  to improve the I/O performance in various workloads.  • Developed and worked on an efficient space layout for instant thin filesystem clones feature without any  dependency or master clone and designed a background worker pool to efficiently compact and reclaim the space.  • Worked on performance of overall stack to identify and fix the hotspots and contention, Used intel  vtune along with flame graphs for cpu performance analysis. Created internals statistics infrastructure for the I/O performance bottlenecks.  • Designed and implemnted the Rest server API for the filesystem management plane compatible to the  oracle cloud. Software Developer Oracle Bangalore - Bengaluru, Karnataka December 2013 to June 2016 Bangalore, India  • Worked as a part of multi-tier QoS file system team of Oracle Flash Storage Product. Did multiple  Contribution to design, implementation and maintenance of modules in file system internal rpc code, metadata cache module and quota features.  • Worked on the performance of LRU cache module in multi-threading environment. Designed and developed a transaction scheme to reduce the contention of resource allocation for cache objects and  developed a Garbage collection module for reaping the unused objects lazily without impacting the front-end operations.  • Bug fixes and Code reviews in the number of filesystem modules. Developed posix interfaces for the unit tests framework to easier test filesystem calls with new features/code check-in  • Implemented a python module for automated integration of changes over branches and testing.  • Created a web application using Oracle Application Express to create a daily regression board of populating result from automated test database. Member of Technical Staff Netapp Inc - Bengaluru, Karnataka November 2013 to November 2013 India  • Worked as a part of Storage Efficiency Team. Storage Efficiency team handles the two features available  namely compression and deduplication. I worked primarily on compression to reduce the physical data  while preserving the logical data on the Storage System. The compression core engine used lz4 for compressing blocks in their compression group.  • Developed a Python module for better integration of bug database query for web users. Education Bachelor of Technology in Computer Science & Engineering in Computer Science & Engineering Indian Institute of Technology - Hyderabad, Telangana August 2008 to 2012 Skills Sql, C/c++, C++, Django, Docker, Git, Perl, Python, Perforce, Matlab Additional Information SKILLSET    Computer Languages C/C++, Python, Django (basics), Perl, Shell, Octave, SQL  Tools and Packages Vagrant, Docker, Git/Perforce, GDB, Intel Vtune and flamegraphs,  Matlab, NS-3