Sr. AEM Developer Sr. AEM <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. AEM Developer - T Mobile ? 7 years of IT experience with 4 years of experience in design and implementation of modules on AEM 6.1,6.2, 6.3 and 6.4.  ? Experience in design, development, deployment, maintenance and support of Java/J2EE applications.  ? Experience in Java, JSP, HTL (sightly), JavaScript and Servlets.  ? Involved in all AEM related design and framework development using templates,components widgets, AEM bundle, JCR/Sling API, clustering publish and author setup.  ? Expert at developing custom Editable components, page templates, template components and workflow.  ? Experienced in developing applications using Eclipse and IntelliJ.  ? Involved in writing various UNIX shell scripts for writing automated scripts for scheduled queue process and pm cmd commands.  ? Experienced setting up the dispatcher cache at the webserver level using flush agent.  ? Experience in using Maven and ANT tools for Build Automation customizing plug-ins and dependencies.  ? Experience working with Bug tracking tools like JIRA, Bugzilla, QC.  ? Used Sightly(HTL)for highlighting is focus on keeping your markup beautiful, and thus maintainable, once made dynamic.  ? Experienced in using RDBMS like Oracle and MySQL.  ? Implementation knowledge of i18n on Components and Dialogs.  ? Sightly coding for components.  ? Expertise in Informatica and Initiate Administration including Installation, upgrade, Applying Hot Fixes, Configuration, maintenance and troubleshooting.  ? Participated in each phase of one full SDLC lifecycle implementation, provided end-user training and post go-live support.  ? Strong working experience on LINUX, Migration of repositories and repository upgrades.  ? SMEs, Developers, QAs and other stakeholders for project meetings, walkthroughs and customer interviews.  ? Experience in developing UI for the applications using JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, XML and Ajax.  ? Involved in the effort estimation of the project.  ? Expertise in developing editable templates.  ? Proficient in MEAN Stack development, using RESTful web services.  ? Proficiency in deploying n-tier Enterprise / Web applications using ApacheTomcat.  ? Efficient use of various design patterns such as MVC (Model-View-Controller), Singleton, Service locator, DAO (Data Access Object), DTO (Data Transfer Object), and BusinessDelegate in the development of distributed Enterprise Applications.  ? Experience with SDLC process (Agile, Waterfall models) of performing detailed analysis, collecting use cases, documenting requirements.  ? Good experience in coordinating and working with developers (Offshore and Onsite) and End Users in Team based environment. Work Experience Sr. AEM Developer T Mobile - Atlanta, GA March 2018 to Present Responsibilites  ? Created components using Sightly HTML Templating Language by replacing the Traditional Java Server Pages (JSP).  ? Installed and configured version 6.3 of Adobe Experience Manager Web Content Management System and Apache Felix Admin Console.  ? Designed templates of the website using the framework and developing custom components, widgets as per the requirements.  ? Installed CRXDE Integrated development environment and configured the project with subversion control.  ? Performed Administration Tasks to Activate, Replicate and Package The Changes To Publish As Well To Be Consumed By Other Environments.  ? Installed CRXDE Integrated development environment and configured the project with subversion  ? Control.  ? AEM design and framework development and Architecture using components widgets, AEM bundle, JCR/Sling API, clustering publish and author and editing content with the help of widgets.  ? Migrating project from AEM 6.3 to 6.4.  ? Responsible for coordinating with the dev team and perform build and deploying the components  ? Setup and configure Authoring and Publishing environments, replication agents, AEM dispatcher to cache the landing pages HTML and serve as the static pages from Apache.  ? Also, been in to using other Enterprise Management Tools like Adobe Test and Target, Adobe Search and Promote and alsoAdobe DTM.  ? Worked on setup and configuration of the SAML authentication servers  ? Used Jenkins to build, package and deploy the application and used Log4j for the Logging system.  ? Offer solutions on top of the Adobe WCM, CRX/CRXDE.  ? Created Touch UI and Classic UI AEM components and also created few dialogs using version 6.3& 6.4  ? Responsible for design, development and unit and integration testing of AEM components, templates and the corresponding web services.  ? Worked on integrating AEM with AngularJS.  ? Worked on UI integration using Sightly template language for different components.  ? Implemented Sling Servlets and created OSGI bundles for interacting with remote spring webapp and WebServices and custom business logic in java and deploy as jar files from the Felix System Console.  ? Integrated LDAP for user access to the CMS systems for authoring and publishing.  ? Developed and deployed custom OSGi bundle in Apache Felix console.  ? Provide author training to business users to familiarize them with the design and usage of the system.  ? Worked on Multi Site Manager (MSM) in AEM to control over blueprints and live copies and work on rollout configurations.  ? Extensively used AEM tagging features in developing components and templates. Used JavaScript for writing listeners in the dialogs.  ? Authorizing access rights to AEM users and groups for accessing DAM resources.  ? Worked on Digital Asset Management, to manage and store all the media.  ? Used Jenkins as build tool and used JIRA to track the bugs, issues and project management.  ? Used Log4J for logging and tracing the messages.  Environment: AEM 6.4,6.3, JCR, Apache Felix JAVA, J2EE, POJO, JSON, Adobe Experience Manager, Sightly, HTML5, Ext JS, CSS3, Maven, GITHUB, Restful Web services, Agile, SCRUM, Akamai, JIRA, JavaScript, JQuery, JSON. AEM Developer Pall Corporation - Port Washington, NY September 2016 to February 2018 Responsibilities:  ? Installed and configured AEM 6.2 (2017), 6.3(2018)ofAdobe AEM.  ? Performed AEM customization on foundation components, core CMS and workflows to extend functionalities, and improve performance.  ? Implemented the Filter class, Sling Servlets, and OSGI bundles for interacting with remote spring web services.  ? Created new components in Touch UI.  ? Worked on Multi Site Manager (MSM) in AEM, enforcing a common base structure and common content across the website.  ? Strategy for Content Migration from AEM 6.1 to AEM 6.2 (2017). Design & Development of content migration scripts for Migration.  ? Built dynamically generated dropdown lists using Ajax, JQuery and Angular JS.  ? Installed and Configured AEM Authoring & Publishing Instance.  ? Design and development of web pages using AEM, Slightly, HTL, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, Ajax and JQuery.  ? Worked on Tar Compaction and Indexing as part of application maintenance.  ? Used Bootstrap CSS framework that helps in designing web applications  ? Adopted and utilized Agile Methodology as needed or requested  ? Worked on web services to consume the data from the application API's  ? Wrote custom code (scheduler with corn job) to create assets in DAM, workflows to approve/reject assets and assign tags.  ? Worked on dispatcher cache in AEM while working on auto login scenario.  ? Maintained the Content Management System (CMS) and provided support for the application in authoring environment.  ? Responsible for writing build scripts using POM XML files, Maven and ANT scripts.  ? Used Jenkins as build tool and used JIRA to track the bugs, issues and project management.  ? Used Log4J for logging and tracing the messages.  ? Extensively used AEM Tag Libraries in the components.  ? Involved in all AEM related design and framework development using templates,components widgets, AEM bundle, JCR/Sling API, clustering publish and author setup.  ? Worked on restful web services to know the response when making service calls while fixing the issues.  ? Experience in developing application on OSGI, Apache Sling and Apache Felix Frameworks.  ? Extensive use of AEM tag libraries and custom tag libraries in components.  ? Experience with Agile process methodology and Scrum methodology.  Environment:AEM 6.1, AEM6.2, AEM6.3, JDK1.7, JSP, Servlets,Sightly, Apache Sling, CRXDE, CRX, WCM, Java Script, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, Ajax, JQuery, Ajax, REST Services, Maven, Agile, GitHub, Eclipse, JIRA. AEM Developer Austin, TX January 2016 to August 2016 Responsibilities:  ? Design and implement components for the Adobe AEM platform.  ? Design and development of web pages using AEM6.1, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, Ajax and JQuery.  ? Developed Templates, components using JSP and Sightly.  ? Creating templates of the website using the framework, developing custom components using sightly and widgets as per the requirements.  ? Developed web applications in AEM systems in coordination with software development teams  ? Build websites and applications using Adobe AEM  ? Developed Adobe AEM templates and reusable components.  ? Experience with managing daily communication with the offshore development teams in my projects.  ? Involved in migration of the existing documented content model to AEM.  ? Involved in development and production support.  ? Provide estimates, designs, and specifications for AEM templates, components, and workflows.  ? Proficient in Adobe AEM foundational concepts, including the CRX repository, Apache Sling and Apache Felix.  ? Understanding the site architecture and development of CMS components.  ? Involved in migration of the existing team site content models to AEM.  ? Created components using Sightly HTML Templating Language by replacing the Traditional Java  ? Server Pages (JSP).  ? Developing OSGI services using sling framework and Maven bundles.  ? Involved in discussion with offshore/onsite team to understand the business requirement.  ? Involved in planning and estimation of time to complete for each and every template as per delivery  ? concern.  ? Involved in high level design and documentation of template and components.  ? Guiding and Provide technical support to team-members.  ? Involved in development of various reusable components using AEM day tool, JCR170.  ? Integrate AEM with Enterprise offers platform.  ? Worked on design for integration with third-party RESTfulbased web services.  ? Designed and delivered AEM components to allow non-technical users to rapidly update and create  ? website content.  ? Used Eclipse Integrated Development Environment (IDE) in entire project development.  ? CQ packages deployment from one environment to other environment. (Development server, Test server, Staging or Preview server and Production server).  ? Configuring Dispatchers, Flushing Dispatcher cache, AEM server optimization, AEM Log analyzing, Garbage collector etc.  ? Used LDAP for authentication.  Environment:AEM 6.1, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, JQuery, JSP, Sightly, Oracle 11g, JDK 1.7, Ajax, Maven, Jira, SVN, Eclipse. Software Developer Vodafone India Limited August 2012 to December 2015 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in Requirement Analysis, Design, Development and Testing of the risk workflow system.  ? Involved in the implementation of design using vital phases of the Software development life cycle (SDLC) that includes Development, Testing, Implementation and Maintenance Support in WATER FALL methodology.  ? Created user-friendly GUI interface and Web pages using Struts, JSP, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JQuery and JavaScript.  ? Responsible for designing, coding and developed the application in J2EE using Struts MVC.  ? Used simple Struts Validation for validation of user input as per the business logic and initial data loading.  ? Achieved synchronization of multiple threads through Multithreading and Exception Handling.  ? Extensively used JSON to parse the data from server side to satisfy the business requirement.  ? Developed Struts Action Forms, Action classes and performed action mapping using Struts.  ? Developed batch job using EJB scheduling and leveraged container managed transactions for highly transactions.  ? Involved in developing Web Services to send XML request and reading the response SOAP UI from Java platform.  ? Implemented the Model layer with POJO java classes, integrated with Hibernate for Object Relational Mapping and used MySQL as the database.  ? Performed extensive cross browser compatibility testing.  ? Used various Core Java concepts such as Multi-Threading, Exception Handling, Collection APIs, Garbage collections for dynamic memory allocation to implement various features and enhancements.  ? Established Database Connectivity using JDBC for Oracle.  ? Developed the ANT scripts for preparing WAR files used to deploy J2EE components.  ? Analysis and Bug fixing of the production problems and defects along with enhancements.  ? Implemented JUNIT test cases for unit testing and Suites for end to end testing.  ? Used SVN to check-in and check-out and co-ordinate among team members for Version Controlling.  Environment:Java, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JQuery, JavaScript, JSON, XML, Struts, JDBC, IBATIS, Web Services, SOAP UI, SQL, JBOSS, Oracle, ANT, Eclipse IDE, Tortoise SVN, and UNIX. Skills ECLIPSE, JAVA, JBOSS, jQuery, HTML