Net Developer Net <span class="hl">Developer</span> Net Developer - Emerson Climate Sidney, OH • 7+ Years of professional IT Experience in Object Oriented design, analysis, development and implementation of n-tier Business Applications using Microsoft Technologies and .Net Framework.  • Experience in full System Development Life Cycle(SDLC) and with Windows Communication Foundation (WCF).  • Extensive experience in Software Applications Development using Microsoft technologies namely MS Azure, ASP.NET, C#, VB, VB.NET, ASP and databases such as SQL Server  • Strong Object-Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD) and C#, VB.NET Programming skills. Proficient in front end UI development using HTML, AJAX, CSS (Cascading Style Sheets), Java script and jQuery.  • Experience in building single page Applications (SPA) using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, Angular JS, Angular-2, ASP.NET MVC, ASP.NET, Web API, Entity Framework, Azure Application, Microsoft Dynamic CRM Upgrade & Functional Enhancement.  • Integrated MS Dynamics CRM 2016 online with Azure Logic Apps, Web Jobs.  • Proficient at developing Web applications using Web forms, ASP.NET AJAX Control Toolkit, Master Pages, Themes, Skins, Web Parts, CSS, Java Script and jQuery. Validation controls and secured web application using Role Providers, Impersonation.  • Experience of creating Windows Installer using WIX and Null soft scripts.  • Experience in Object Oriented Analysis and Design methodology with strong Patterns including Structural, Creational and Behavioural Patterns like Model Viewer Controller (MVC).  • Proven experience in writing the SQL server Stored Procedures, Functions, Triggers and database administration tasks like backup restore and SQL profiling.  • Experience in Agile Scrum Software development methodologies and test-driven development, developing use cases sequence diagrams and class diagrams in UML and .Net framework (3.0, 3.5, 4.0, 4.5).  • Experience in Microsoft Azure Services like PaaS, IaaS and worked on Azure PaaS storages like Blob (Page and Block), SQL Azure. Well experienced in deployment & configuration management and Virtualization.  • Experience in creating and maintaining technical documentation of architecture, high and low level design documents for applications development Experience in Crystal Reports, Fusion Charts, High Charts.  • Experience in successfully managing multiple projects simultaneously.  • Ability to independently and rapidly learn new technology. Good written and verbal skills.  • Willing to relocate: Anywhere. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Net Developer Emerson Climate - Sidney, OH April 2016 to Present Emerson Climate Technologies is the world's leading provider of heating, ventilation, air conditioning, and refrigeration solutions for residential, industrial, and commercial applications. Emerson Climate Technologies (ECT) is a customer/vendor self-service online portal allow customers/vendor to access various Emerson Products. Using this self-service site, customer/Vendorscan place an order, view their recent purchases, track previously place order and update contact information. This self-service site will also auto suggest compatible Emerson products based on previous transactions.    Responsibilities  • Responsible for gathering requirements, design the application architecture, use cases, flowcharts, application flow, prototypes.  • Developed rich UI design using AngularJS, JQuery, JavaScript, CSS3, AJAX UIcontrols and HTML5.  • Designed and Developed application using ASP.NET MVC 4.0, C#, WCF, WEB API, XML and SQL Server 2012.  • Developed the project in Agile methodology using Rally Tool, attended SCRUMmeetings, Story Boards and Sprint Boards.  • Involved in writing Technical Documents.  • Developed complex MVC Controllers, Views, Models and Helper methods linked to backend database.  • Developed the Razor views using Razor View Engine  • Developed various complex SQL Queries, Stored Procedures, Views andTriggers which are completely generic, and metadata driven  • Used Entity Framework for retrieving data from the Database.  • Used WSDL to document services created in web services.  • Used SOAP to communicate and pass the information in XML format from web service to the application.  • Developed RESTful Web Services on HTTP Handlers with POST, GET Methods for XML and JSON requests.  • Code developed based on best practices using Object Oriented ProgrammingConcepts (OOPS) and Design patterns.  • Used Team Foundation Server (TFS) for version control and to track bugs.  • Performed NUnit testing and prepared required documents on testing.  • Involved in testing, debugging and code review of the application.  • Involved in hosting applications in IIS web server.  • Investigated and resolved reported defects.  • Responsible for deploying Components to Development and Internal/External QA Environment.  • Involved in bug fixing and resolving issues with the QA.  • Responsible for the support and maintenance of the application.  • Implemented logging mechanism using Microsoft Library Logging  • Involved in attending the release review meetings to identify the new functionalities and provided knowledge sharing sessions to the offshore team members.  Environment: Visual Studio 2012, SQL Server 2012, .NET Framework 4.5, C# .NET, RESTful WEB API, MVC5, CSS3, HTML5, WCF 4.5, XML, JSON, SOAP, WSDL, SQL Server 2012, ADO.NET, AngularJS, AJAX, NUnit, TFS 2012, IIS 8.0 Net Developer Bloomin Brands Inc - Tampa, FL June 2015 to March 2016 Bloomin' Brands, Inc., is a hospitality industry company that owns several American casual dining restaurant chains. The company was established in 1987 in Tampa, Florida, where it is headquartered. Poseidon is the part of the Modern Integration project contained within the POSi Next program charter. Poseidon is a full set of REST APIs that will serve as a middle layer between SPCWin.exe and external/internal applications. The Enterprise Monitor Application is built from scratch which can monitor the POS system health status check from all the locations in US which integrated with ServiceNow. As part of the Monitor application, it also has the change tracking ability to monitor the update data for all the locations. The installation system is also developed by using MVC design pattern.    Responsibilities  • Worked on Scrum-based Agile SDLC.  • Develop web application with .NET 4.5 Framework and Visual Studio 2015  • Created APIs using ASP.NET Web API for the new Poseidon Application which replaced the OPD application.  • Using OWIN for self-hosting the REST APIs within a Windows Service.  • Using TopShelf to convert the .NET Console Application into a Windows Service.  • Using the MEF2 for dependency injection in order to build a loosely coupled system and use Dapper for Object relational mapping (ORM).  • Using Repository Pattern and Factory design pattern to develop reusable code.  • Create the enterprise increment data load process by using SQL SERVER Change Tracking combine with stored procedures, functions and SSIS.  • Using C# and based on NLOG framework built a centralized log system which can integrated with ServiceNow Event Management, this system can monitor thousands of company terminals in US and run as Windows Service.  • Using AngularJS for the Model-View front-end design. Using Ajax for API calls.  • Perform Unit Testing and debugging and set test conditions based on code specifications.Wrote the unit testing by using Mock(moq).  • Use MVC design a Poseidon installation system, which can install application to different terminals in all locations.  • Involved in SQL SERVER Database, design and write functions and stored procedures  • Supports application throughout the Product Development life cycle.  • Used TFS for version control  Environment: C# 5.0, .NET Framework 4.5, ASP.NET Web API 2, Entity Framework 6, RESTful Service, JavaScript, AJAX, AngularJS 1.3, NUnit, HTML 5, CSS 3, Bootstrap, IIS 7.5, SQL Server 2012, Visual Studio 2013, GIT/TFS Net Developer Camps System Pvt. Ltd February 2013 to April 2015 Inventory Management System (IMS) is a reliable, cost effective solution to track all your inventory requirements. IMS can be scaled to meet the needs of any size facility, from one with a single stockroom to one with a global inventory distributed across multiple, geographically diverse locations. IMS is offered as a hosted, web-based application that provides you with universal access to your inventory information with just a web browser and Internet connection.    Responsibilities  • Interacted with end users and Business Analyst to create low level technical design document.  • Involved in Database Design, System Analysis, design and development.  • Used the ADO.NET for the Data Access from the Database.  • Created UI screens using ASP.NET web forms and user controls.  • Created the Queries to access the data from the SQL server as the backend.  • Coordinated with offshore for the multiple version releases for this product.  • Created the Patch (C#) for the unsupported product errors. Fixed three main production bugs using this patch.  • Wrote PL-SQL queries with Joins on multiple tables, Stored Procedures, Functions, Triggers, Indexes usingT-SQL and LINQ using Oracle.  • Interacted with the client-Support team, and clarified their queries about the product.  • Created the FAQ document for the client support team.  • Involved in the Install shield Creation and fixed the production issues.  • Responsible for the Deployment and Delivery of the product in the client environment.  • Contributed in design and development of database.  • Created ASP.NET User Controls and Components to reduce the complexity of user interface  • design.  • Configured global. AJAX and Web. Config for setting the Application and Session variables  • Created security features for this application using windows based authentication.  • Used agile development methodology by welcoming changes even late in the development cycle.  Environment: C# .Net, Asp.Net, Web Api, Java Script, Jquery Ajax, Ado.Net, Mysql, Vb6, Ajax, Wcfnet Framework 3.5/3.0, Visual Studio 2010/08, Is, Web Services, Soap, Xml, Xsd, Wsdl, Javascript, Oracle, Windows Xp, Azile. Net Developer Intelex Systems March 2012 to January 2013 ERA is a web-based application with end to end development. Event Registration Application(ERA) allows all employees to view and register for events and access personal profile information online. Re-designed and re-write the user interface of an intranet web-based workflow application. The Project will involve to make the changes in master data maintenance and validation process by using the ER application to verify the actual data with the work based application of the data which is base for further registration process.    Responsibilities  • Involved in designing and coding for web forms of the application with ASP.NET.  • Modifying the code to accommodate client's requirements.  • Writing codes that suit different screen sizes.  • UI designed for different device screen size.  • Involved in developing UI, Business Layer and Data Access Layer and used C#.NET as code behind to implement the business logic of the web forms.  • SQL Server 2000 is used as the back-end database which stores all the data used in entire application and implemented Stored Procedures, Database Triggers, Views, and Indexes with SQL programming.  • Used ADO.NET to implement the data layer to help communicate with data base.  • Responsible for implementing the error handling "Exception Handling " in the project using try catch finally blocks.  • Used Visual Source Safe for version control and Participated in unit testing of the application to ensure quality.  Environment: Visual Studio.Net 2003, C#.Net, Asp.Net 1.1, Ado.Net, Web Services, Html, Dhtml, Sql Server 2000, Windows Xp. Software Developer Dell - Round Rock, TX June 2010 to February 2012 Composer Studio is a web application which can help content authors to create, save, and edit the layouts just by drag and drop fields/controls. The main objective of this tool is to provide the experience of WYSWYG (what you see is what you get). With this application, the content authors of dell can create their own layouts and can preview the content that needs to be published on to the live site, and also they can apply any custom rendering templates to the fields already dragged just by preview the rendering template in template picker. This project uses HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Angular 2.0, C#, ASP .Net, Elastic Search, Visual Studio, and TFS.    Responsibilities  • Designed and developed using Agile/Scrum Development life cycle.  • Involved in different phases of the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including Designing, Programming and Documentation.  • Participating in daily scrum meetings.  • Developing technical stories based on User stories.  • Review and enhancement of technical stories.  • Coding required Models, Views and controllers.  • Implement user stories, review of code and check-in.  • Used Cascading Style Sheets (CSS) to output a uniform look for the application.  • Developed SPA (Single Page Applications) apps using Angular 2.0 and Bootstrap CSS.  • Used AngularJS and JQuery library functions for the logical implementation part at client side for all the application.  • Developed Bootstrap responsive web application pages using Angular 2.0 services, controllers and directives for front end UI and consumed RESTful web service API.  • Designed a brand-new solution with Angular 2.0/4.0, Angular-CLI 1, SASS, SCSS Mixing, Angular 2.0 Form, Angular 2.0 Route, Angular 2.0 Animation, SASS Variables for themes, Ng-2 UI Bootstrap, Component/ngModule, Goggle Map, ng2 Charts, Rich Text Editor, Full Calendar, Auto Complete, Date Picker, Color Picker, CLI Built and much more using leading edge technologies.  • Updated our project from Angular version 4 to 5 and made use of version 5 functionalities.  • Migrated solution from updated Angular 2.0 Beta to RC, RC1 to RC4, RC4 to RC6 and to Angular 2.4. Fixed various node dependency issues and Angular 2 and CLI changes during migration.  • Developed core functionality with the ASP.NET MVC Framework.  • Developing and Enhancing master pages, User controls, Custom controls, User Interface by using Telerik Kendo UI and Telerik.Net UI Controls.  • Updating the entire application to be cross browser compatible.  • Assisted QA team in developing test cases.  • Review of issue logs and perform necessary actions.  • Production support and hot fixes.  • Provide training and KT to new hires.  • Used Team Foundation Server (TFS) for version control, source control and reporting project or issue management.  Environment: Visual Studio 2015, Elastic, HTML5, CSS, Angular 2.x, MVC 5.0, JavaScript, C#, IIS, Entity Framework, Team Foundation Server (TFS). Education Bachelor's Skills .NET (7 years), ASP (7 years), ASP.NET (7 years), C# (7 years), MS ASP (7 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Area Software    TECHNOLOGIES ASP.NET, Classic ASP, VB 6.0, C#, .NET, VB.NET, ADO.NET, XML, Web Services, MVC, Angular JS.  DEVELOPMENT TOOLS Visual Studio, Visual Studio.NET 2008/2010/2012  LANGUAGES ASP.NET, C#, ADO.NET, MVC, SQL., HTML and XML  DATABASES Access, SQL Server, Oracle and MySQL  CLIENT/BROWSER TECHNOLOGIES: AJAX, Ajax Extensions, XHTML, HTML, DHTML, XSLT, JavaScript, Angular JS, CSS, Angular 2, MS Azure, Microsoft Dynamic CRM.  WINDOWS SERVICES LINQ, WCF, WPF, Crystal Report, SSIS,SSRS.  DEVELOPMENT METHODOLOGIES OOAD with UML, Design Patterns, Data Flow Diagrams, Flow charts Agile methodology, Waterfall Methodology.  Project Management Microsoft Project, Microsoft Office (Word, Excel), Microsoft PowerPoint, MS Access, Agile & Waterfall  Browsers Internet Explorer, Firefox, Chrome & Safari