Salesforce Developer Salesforce <span class="hl">Developer</span> Salesforce Developer Chicago, IL Software Developer with extensive experience in Salesforce customization and configuration. SQL  Over six years of hands-on experience in Salesforce Administration, Salesforce Development And  Test Automation(JAVA and Selenium)  HTML/CSS Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Salesforce Developer Cognizant Technology Solutions - Hyderabad, Telangana July 2017 to April 2018 • Involved in various stages of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including analysis, requirement engineering, architecture design, development, enhancements, testing.  • Designed, developed and deployed Apex Classes, Batch Jobs and Apex Triggers for various functional needs in the application.  • Worked on Asynchronous Apex such Batch Apex and Scheduled Apex to overcome DML Operation used Governor limits.  • Participated in the release cycle of the product which involved environments like Development, INT, QA, UAT and Production.  • Development using JavaScript and jQuery for custom validations.  • Involved in merging of Conga Templates and Echo sign Templates.  • Integrated the SOAP/REST API based Web Services on Demand for extracting the data from external systems.  • Customized existing Visualforce to align with salesforce new Lightning UI experience using SLDS  • Used Salesforce Lightning combines the new Lightning Design System, Lightning App Builder and Lightning Components to enable anyone to quickly and easily create modern enterprise apps build on Salesforce1 Platform  • Experience in building new Applications with the Lightning App Builder and Lightning components.  • Development of Community with Partner Central Template using Community Builder.  • Deployed changes from Sandbox to Production org using Change Sets  • Used GitHub for version control and Source Tree for Git UI. Software Developer and Test Infosys Ltd October 2013 to June 2017 • Collaboration with the onsite team and the business to gather client requirement.  • Involved in Salesforce.com Application Setup activities and customized the apps to match the functional needs of the organization.  • Developed Custom Objects, Tabs, Fields, validation rules, Reports.  • Created various Profiles, Roles, Page Layouts and configured the Permissions based on the Organization hierarchy requirements.  • Created Visual Workflowsand Approval process, Email Templates inside Sales Force  • Continuous co-ordination with the client to ensure all the continuously changing business requirements were incorporated in the project to match with the real time business process.  • Worked with SOQL queries with Governor Limitations to store and download the data from Salesforce.com platform database.  • Worked on Scheduled and Batch Apex.  • Developed various Apex classes, Controller classes and Apex Triggers for various functional needs in the application. Software Test Engineer Infosys - Hyderabad, Telangana March 2012 to October 2013 • Developed test scripts to automate process of functional and regression testing in Selenium Web   • Driver.  • Regression Test suites were identified and automated scripts was written for the suites as required for better performance  • Performed Functional testing, Regression testing, Web Testing, UI Testing, Black box Testing, Database Testing to ensure proper functionality and data quality.  • Execution of test cases in Quality center & timely updates of status to client and ensure successful delivery.  • Performed root cause analysis on critical defects and shared the analysis report to the stakeholders.  • Coordinating with external teams and management for end to end testing to ensure good quality.  • Performed Backend testing to verify the data integrity by passing SQL Queries, performed Smoke and Functional testing on every build of the application.  • Involved in creating and executing test cases, defect detection and logged good number of critical defects , worked with development team for bug fix and performed re-testing. Education Master's in Management Information Systems Northern Illinois University - DeKalb, IL January 2019 to Present Bachelors in Information Technology in Information Technology JNTU 2007 to 2011 Skills Salesforce, Visualforce, Apex, SFDC, Soql