Web Software Engineer Web <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Township of Hanover, PA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Web Software Engineer schoolboogy corp - Chantilly, VA September 2016 to August 2019 • Developer on multiple SchoolBoogy projects including FDA and SchoolBoogy myClasses software (PHP, Java, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap).   • Particpated full lifecycle development using Agile method.  • Developer for multiple applications (PHP, Java, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap).  • Managed and maintained SchoolBoogy development and test servers, including administrations and configuration of IIS and Apache web servers, as well as Tomcat application servers. Installed and configured GIT servers and implemented source code procedures.  • Coded and reviewed code for applications for best practices and 508 compliance.  • Implemented DevOps using GIThub. I was also responsible for the setup and configuration of our GIT based source control system and recently upgraded infrastructure to use GitLabs for source code management.  • Supervised developer interns on various projects.  • Developed and leveraged REST services (Microsoft, OpenText).  • Performed database administration on mySQL, Oracle, and SQL server.  • Performed upgrades and performance tuning activities on numerous projects.  component developer osBlue corporation - Wilkes-Barre, PA April 2013 to September 2016 • Documentum 6.x/7.x administration and development.  • Created Documentum DQL based administration scripts.  • Java module development and development interfaces to external systems using various APIs.  • Assisted in the configuration of the ECMS Documentum infrastructure at the Environmental Protection agency.  • Responsible for troubleshooting out of the box Records Management Services configuration issues supporting contract developers.   • Installed and configured SchoolBoogy’s Documentum development and production infrastructure that includes Oracle 11g & 12c database servers, Content server, Records Management Services, Retention Management Services, Physical Records Management Services, Index Server, and other supporting servers.    • Deployed and configured WebTop, Documentum Administrator, and Records Manager Administrator.   • Server farms were configured for 6.x/7.x Content Servers and clients. Developer Plc corp - Wilkes-Barre, PA 2010 to 2013 • Worked with clients to create and document administration procedures.  • Assisted in requirements gathering for Rio Tinto mining safety project and was responsible for creating and testing the workflow and lifecycle functionality of the core application.   • Installed, configured and deployed content and various index servers for multiple customers in government and the private sector.  • Documented and implemented ACL/security component of custom Documentum application.  • Planned and managed environment migrations for multiple projects.  • Performed basic database administration on mySQL, Oracle, and SQL server.  • Developer for multiple WDK/WebTop/DCM based solutions.  • Customized WDK/DCM/WebTop/DAM web environments.    • Performed upgrades and performance tuning activities on numerous projects.  Education High school or equivalent Skills MYSQL (5 years), PHP (5 years), Git (3 years), bootstrap (3 years), Javascript (5 years), HTML, Jquery, SQL, XML, Sql Server, HTML5, Angular, CSS, Software Development, GitHub Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Assessments Business Math — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to use basic math to solve problems in a business context. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/gyctxsemght8itb1 Memorization & Recall — Expert August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to commit product or merchandize information to memory and recall at a later time. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/yvawwnjxynqjb8jd Technical Support — Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/ifv8hr94jk-rxndx Data Entry — Proficient August 2019 Entering data quickly and accurately. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/tdlnie7vjjc7ng55 Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.