Software Engineer <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Software Engineer - American Express Bentonville, AR • 8+ years' experience in Design and Development of Enterprise-level Web& Desktop applications using Microsoft Technologies.  • Creation of Rich data centric presentation tiers, business logic facades, provider independent data logic layers, and back-end programming.  • Expertise in .Net Technologies (1.0/1.1/2.0/3.0/4.0) using ASP.Net MVC,ASP.NET,C#.NET, VB.Net, Visual Basic, ADO.Net, Entity Framework, Win Forms, Web Forms, WPF, WCF, XAML and IIS in the areas of performance, security, scalability, and extensibility.  • Extensive experience using C# and XAML with MVVM design principles for UI development.  • Experience in developing applications using ASP.NET Web Forms, Windows Presentation Foundation (WPF), LINQ and Windows Communication Foundation (WCF).  • Developed Web Applications using HTML, ASP.Net, VBScript, JavaScript, .Net, and XML.  • Developed Desktop Application using C#.net, Windows forms, WPF, MVVM, and XAML.  • Experience in developing and consuming Web Services and related technologies: XML, XSL/XSLT, XML Schemas, XSD, SOAP and DOM Parser.  • Experience in methodologies ER Diagrams, Flow Diagrams and Design Docs using VISIO.  • Experience using various Versioning systems like Concurrent Versioning System (CVS), Visual Source Safe (VSS) and Tortoise Sub Versioning System (SVN).  • Experience in preparing risk analysis document which consists of Cause, Effect and Mitigation plans.  • Working experience on Microsoft Enterprise Library includes DAL (Data access application blocks/Configuration/Caching/Security).  • Extensive knowledge on all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (Planning, Requirement analysis, Design, coding, testing, deployment).  • Hard working and decisive, diligent individual. Committed and oriented to individual and organizational goals. Experience in fast paced environment and acclaimed for completion of many challenging projects successfully.  • Created database objects using SQL Server including complex Stored Procedures, triggers, cursors, tables, and views and other SQL joins and statements for applications. Work Experience Software Engineer American Express - Sunrise, FL December 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in requirement analysis with the Business Users in for converting the business requirements to Programming solutions using American Express (DLS) guides.  • Worked in an Agile/Scrum Development Team to deliver regular updates to business analysts and project manager.  • Design develop and test HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, jQuery and React.JSthat meets accessibility and web browser standards for website.  • Designed CSS templates for use in all pages on the website working with CSS Background, positioning, text, border, margin, padding, and table. Applied optimization techniques to reduce page size and load times to enhance user experience.  • Designed CSS templates for use in all pages on the website working with CSS Background, positioning, text, border, margin, padding, and table.  • Worked closely with backend engineers to optimize existing API calls to create efficiencies by deprecating unneeded API calls.  • Built and/or customized React.js components including but not limited to Carousels, Accordions, Modals, Buttons, Checkboxes, Inputs, Icons, Dropdowns, and many more  • Made http requests using Node JS for server side.  • Used Postman to test API responses with payloads.  • Used Git Bash for version control and regularly pushing the code to Bitbucket.  • Maintained states in the stores and dispatched the actions using redux.  • Implemented modules into Node JS to integrate with designs and requirements.  • Implemented the Drag and Drop functionality using React-Draggable Component forUX-Library consisted of Button, Checkbox, Input, Icons, Toggle Button, Dropdown, Multi-Level Dropdown and many more.  • Also, worked closely with the Back-End team to display data using the Custom Components, library Components, and Redux.  • Implement responsive mobile UI for mobile application in React Native for iOS and Android mobile platforms  • Designed and developed various components such as tab bars, map view, image picker, date picker, push notifications, sign-in/out features, profile management and navigation using react- native.  • Used Middleware, Redux-Promise in application to retrieve data from Back-End and to also perform RESTFUL services. Added Dynamic Functionality by creating and dispatching Action Creators that deployed Actions.  • Worked in using React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations and Flux concept  • Used Web services (SOAP and RESTful) for transmission of large blocks of XML/JSON.  • Worked on responsive design and developed a responsive website that could be served to desktop users using React.js.  • Used Object Oriented Programming concepts to develop UI components that could be reused across the Web Application.  • Design develop and test HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, jQuery and React.JSthat meets accessibility and web browser standards for website.  • Implemented modules into Node JS to integrate with designs and requirements.  • Used SonarQube to detect critical and major code issues.  • Extensively used React debug tools to investigate issues and fix bugs.  • Worked on responsive design and developed a responsive website that could be served to desktop users using React.JS.  • Design and build mobile applications using React native  • Maintenance of Angular MLRB(legacy app) and fixing issues related to it.  • Implementing project's using Agile Scrum Methodology, involved in daily stand up meetings, and sprint retrospective.  • Migrating all the api's and ui's from V2 to V4.  • Developing RESTful api's using iguazu-rpc/node.js/express.js  • Developing UI, Front End pages using JavaScript, ReactJS and Redux.  • Integrating React's Redux framework to scale and maintain the application better while handling large amount of data.  • Create Higher Order Components using React in order to have reusable code for the authorization and redirection.  • Creating and managing builds using Jenkins for CI/CD and use pipeline plug-in for managing multi project jobs effectively.  • Migrating all the api's and ui's from V2 to V4.  • Developing web application's using Spring framework modules like Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Spring ORM, and Spring AOP.  • Performing Maven/Jenkins release for all the JAVA data-modules,client-modules,framework-modules and servicing- modules.  • Follow coding standard guidelines and ensured that the code met the guidelines.  • Coordinating with the team members on security level issues and throubleshooting them.  • Version control & daily collaboration managed with git, BitBucket, Slack and Rally.    Environment: HTML 5React.js/Redux, NPM, Angular JS, Babel, gulp ,Java script, Bootstrap, XML, JSON, GIT, REST APIs, JBPM, Node JS , Express JS,JAVA Rally, JIIRA .Net Developer State of Minnesota - Saint Paul, MN November 2015 to December 2017 Responsibilities:  • Developing SDLC based application using advance web technologies mainly VB.Net and Oracle.  • Developed and consumed WCF Services to achieve Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) and communication between heterogeneous applications and worked as production support developer.  • Responsible for making AJAX Calls for the UI Interactions to the Controller Actions using jQuery and getting the Data back as JSON and parsing it onto the UI.  • Developing a fully ADA-compliant (WCAG 2.0 (Level AA) and Section 508 Subparts A-D accessibility standards) web application including; UI screens, coding functionalities, HTML and/or PDF reports, file exports  • Solving browsers compatibility and security issues. Resolving technical and application problems by testing thoroughly using various testing techniques.  • Developing web applications User Interface with multiple user security roles.  • Working with team, providing necessary guidelines for robust, secure, accessible design related changes and prevention of possible technical threats.  • Developed very responsive, elegant views for web pages using the Bootstrap, CSS Frameworks.  • Developing web applications utilizing AJAX Control Toolkit.  • Worked on data integration to combine data from different data sources and prepare pdf reports using iTextSharp Library.  • Tested and worked on accessibility issues using PDF Accessibility Checker.  • Used the Oracle-Client Data Provider (ADO.Net provider for oracle) for .NET to access Oracle  • Database.  • Developed and consumed WCF Services to achieve Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) and communication between heterogeneous applications and worked as production support developer.  • Maintained the source code versions using Subversion (Tortoise SVN).  • Implemented strict security checks like Veracode scans to avoid security vulnerabilities.  • Testing the applications with WAVE Toolbar to check if the application follows the A-D accessibility standards.  • Maintaining/Managing the highly critical existing Capital Budgets Systems and AMA applications by providing first-level support on day to day production issues, environment challenges.  • Experience working in PL/SQL and T-SQL.  • Used WEB API (Restful services) to expose the services for the front End.  • Extensively used Grid Views with sorting and paging.  • Created Single-page Client-side applications using AngularJS, HTML, and CSS3.  • Experience creating tables, writing stored procedures, and/or creating views.  • Provide technical expertise by resolving problems and answering questions related to the applications business logic.    Environment: Asp.Net 4.5, VB.Net 4.5, Visual Studio 2015, Oracle 11g, Oracle Client (ADO.NET 2), ODAC, Oracle SQL Developer 3.1, jQuery, jQuery UI, HTML-5, CSS-3, Wave tool (ADA), Ajax Control Toolkit, Veracode, PAC-2, AnkhSVN, Tortoises SVN .Net Developer V Prompt E Services Pvt Ltd March 2014 to September 2015 Responsibilities:  • Gathered business requirements, provided architecture and design.  • Analyzed and designed new WPF application using MVVM and Repository pattern, from design to completion.  • Developing application using MVVM Design Pattern and Entity Framework  • Developed Views, Models and View Models using WPF  • Designed large numbers of WPF Forms, Custom Controls and User Controls using XAML language for UI and Dynamic Web Parts for personalized content which allows Change, Edit, Move the content on pages as per users' own choice.  • Extensive experience using XAML with MVVM design principles for UI development.  • Applied multithreaded techniques for creating high performance applications. Multithreading was used to process data in chunks to improve performance.  • Developed the service application using WCF and Entity framework.  • Interacted and led the offshore team, ensured the task distribution and delivery on time.  • Actively involved in designing and developing user interface (GUI) using WPF controls, devexpress controls  • Using Data Grid Controls to display order data and other details.  • Actively participated in the database design activity.  • Created and maintained Tables, Stored Procedure, Views and Queries.  • Scheduled the jobs to do these tasks periodically.  • Created and deployed web services using C#, XML.    Environment: .NET, WPF, MVVM, Repository Pattern, Console Application, C#, Tortoise SVN, Windows 7,WCF,SQL Server. .Net Developer Ajel Limited August 2013 to February 2014 Responsibilities:  • Developed UI components using ASP.NET and VB.NET.  • Successfully engaged external clients in proposal and requirements gathering meetings.  • Successfully completed Analysis and Design of all the modules within the application.  • Developed the Business Objects according to Business Logic.  • Created ASP.NET Web forms and server controls to display dynamic data obtained through the use of Microsoft ADO.NET and data binding.  • Used Cascading Style Sheets for branding purposes and user look and feel.  • Used JavaScript for Client side validation.  • Heavily used .NET Web Controls, Validation Controls and User Controls.  • Extensively worked on Master Pages and Content Pages  • Extensively used the ASP.NET features like Grid View, Detail View and other controls.  • Performed Unit Testing on the entire application.  • Involved in testing the product during post-production.  • Used cookies, Sessions and View state to store user information.  • Wrote SQL scripts and stored procedures, Functions in Oracle 9i to execute various database routines.  • Wrote Test Cases using N-Unit.  • Performed Unit Testing on both SQL Server and Oracle databases from the product perspective.  • Used Visual Source Safe (VSS) for Version Control  • Worked on security issues related to user authentication and authorization.  • Worked on bug fixing for the total product during post production.  • Provided immediate production support as needed to address any issues.  • Documented all the coding involved.    Environment: VB.NET, ASP.NET, SQL Server, IIS, Visual source safe, MS Visio, VB Script, Java Script, Windows 2000,Oracle 9i .Net Developer Ajel Limited June 2011 to July 2013 Responsibilities:  • Designed and implemented user-interface screens using .Net technologies: ASP.Net 4.0 (Web Forms) with VB.Net (Win Forms). Designed XML Schema Object components using VB.Net language for enterprise-level web applications. Incorporated business logic in VB.Net and handled transactions using ADO.Net.  • Configured web configuration file for application as well as Web service credentials and IIS settings.  • Implemented various Menus driven Custom access levels for administrators, employees and customers to enforce the authentication.  • Designed database in MS-SQL and created stored procedures, functions, views to reduce complexity of front-end SQL queries and triggers to enforce entity relationships.  • Developed Web Services to encapsulate business logic components to be used in a distributed environment using VB.Net and exposed them through SOAP and XML Schemas.  • Improved the user interface by making searches easier and navigation more intuitive by enabling users to search by various criteria.  • Used XML, XSL, XSD Schemas, Serialized/De-Serialized Objects and Memory streams extensively to transfer data from SQL Server.  • Contributed in unit testing, bug tracking for web based applications.  • Created custom reporting wizards by using SQL Reporting services.  • Designed DAL (Data Access Layer) Application blocks by using Microsoft Enterprise Library 3.1.  • Designed and developed web forms using user ASP.NET controls Server Controls.  • Designed and developed Custom controls to use with Web Forms.  • Used ADO.Net components such as Datasets, Data Reader, Data View and Data Table.  • Extensive use of Web Services, SOAP, XML, XSL to expose the reports to facilitate information sharing.  • Designed and developed .NET components using VB.NET and XML to communicate with WebServices.  • Worked on ASP.NET features like state Management, cachingfeatures, configuring optimizations and securing web application  • Later in the professional career also involved into the development of the company's website.  • Later had the responsibility of deployment and the maintenance of the website and also upgrading of the sections and the codes of the website.  • Also was involved in the maintenance and the designing of the database required in the website.    Environment: ASP.Net 2.0, VB.Net 2.0, ADO.Net2.0, Griaule Biometric Tool(SDK), SQL Server 2005,SQL Reporting services 2005(SSRS),Ad Hoc Reporting, DAL Application Blocks, Enterprise Library, XML, XSL, (XML Schemas)XSD, Microsoft AJAX Tool, Web Services, IIS 6.0, Server 2003. Skills .net, Visual studio, C#, C++, Html, Javascript, Wcf, Report writer, Svn, Vb.net, Vb 6, Vb 6.0, Xml, Xsl, Ado, Db2, Ms access, Ado.net, Sql server, Mysql Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    MS.Net: .Net Framework, ASP.NET1.x/2/3/4, ASP.NET MVC, C#, VB.NET, ADO.NET, Entity Framework, Web Services, MVC, WCF, WPF.  Business& Portal Technologies: WSS 3.0,MS Office 2007,2010  IDE Visual Studio.Net, VB 6.0 , Visual InterDev 6  Web Technologies: ASP.NET,MVC, JavaScript, HTML, XML,XSL and IIS  Desktop: WPF, XAML,MVVM  Middle Ware: COM, DCOM, ADO.NET ,Entity Framework, Remoting  Report Writer: Crystal Reports 9.0/11.0, SQL Reporting services 2005(SSRS), Ad Hoc Reporting Model.  Databases: MS-SQL Server 7.0/2000/2005/2008, Oracle 8i/9i, PL/SQL, MS Access, MySQL, IBM DB2  Version Controls: VSS 6.0, Tortoise Sub Versioning System (SVN), TFS.  Internet Technologies: VB Script, JavaScript, HTML, DHTML, Front Page, VB InterDev, CSS, and XML, XSL, XHTML, Microsoft AJAX and XSD.  Design Tools: Visual Studio 2008, 2010, 2012, 2013, 2015.  Operating Systems: Windows 98/2000/XP/2003/2008/2012 Server  Others: C, C++,JAVA