Software Engineer <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Software Engineer - Sunoida Solution Pvt Ltd • Around 3 years of experience in Java based web application development in banking domain for business intelligence product.  • Splendid Java development skills using J2EE, Spring MVC, Servlets,  JDBC, Ajax, JavaScript, jQuery, HTML, CSS, SQL.  • Having strong hands on experience in working on Spring framework,  Core Java collection framework, Strings in Java, Exception handling, File handling, Arrays and Threads.  • Installed, configured and deployed web application in Apache tomcat, WildFly Server and Jespa - java Active directory for user authentication in client side.  • Having experience in working on dashboard and widget using Fusion chart. Work Experience Software Engineer Sunoida Solution Pvt Ltd February 2016 to Present Software Developer Sunoida Solution Pvt Ltd February 2016 to Present Duration: Jan 2019 to Present.  Roles & Responsibilities:  • Involved in development of user setup screen for united bank of Africa for Info pool project and LDAP to capture the user detail from active directory.  • Involved in gathering the requirement, design layout for user access based on user group, stakeholder, branch, product, segment and relationship manager(RM) level.  • Worked in storing, retrieval and auto profiling Logic.  • Worked in query Fancy Tree plug in to form tree structure from backend data for user access selection.  • Worked in encryption and masking for data Acquisition process for connectivity check sensitive data.    Technologies Used: Core java, Servlets, Spring MVC, Spring JDBC template, Oracle SQL, jQuery, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, Apache Tomcat.    Project: Vision BI Software Developer Sunoida Solution Pvt Ltd October 2018 to December 2018 Roles & Responsibilities:  • Involved in development of Concurrent Email scheduling for BI reports.  • Worked in creating pooling connection using DBCP of apache.  • Worked in Scheduler API(timer task), design, logic and thread implementation  • Worked in Email sending using spring java mail sender and TCP for open port.  • Worked in Catalog Access screen for single, multiple select magnifier and dropdown based on database maintenance for table columns value for selection  • Worked in support and change request to accommodate Business logic of bank.    Technologies Used: Core java, Servlets, Spring MVC, Spring JDBC template, Oracle SQL, jQuery, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, Apache Tomcat.    Project: Vision BI Software Developer Sunoida Solution Pvt Ltd August 2018 to September 2018 Roles & Responsibilities:  • Worked in installing of Java JDK, Application Server Wildfly standalone configuration and deployment in server.  • Worked in Widget data correction value displayed in Fusion chart and drilldown Excel export request for Widgets having drill through logic.  • Involved in support, bug fixes and enhancement Activity for the bank.  Technologies used: Core java, Servlets, Spring MVC, Spring JDBC template, Oracle SQL, jQuery, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, Wildfly.    Project: Vision BI Software Developer Sunoida Solution Pvt Ltd June 2018 to July 2018 Roles & Responsibilities:  • Worked in the development of custom dashboard for channel, registration and ATM transaction of the bank.  • Worked in excel export download option for the custom dashboard.  • Involved in deployment and configuration of custom dashboard.    Technologies used: Core java, Servlets, Spring MVC, Spring JDBC template, Oracle SQL, jQuery, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, Fusion charts, Apache Tomcat.    Project: Vision BI Software Developer Sunoida Solution Pvt Ltd January 2018 to May 2018 Roles & Responsibilities:  • Worked in enhancement and bug Fixes in Customer 360 and GMD Business dashboard.  • Involved in Support for the bank.    Technologies used: Core java, Servlets, Spring MVC, Spring JDBC template, Oracle SQL, jQuery, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, Fusion charts, Apache Tomcat.    Project: Edwh BNR Software Developer Sunoida Solution Pvt Ltd March 2017 to December 2017 Roles & Responsibilities:  • Worked in development of data Acquisition screen for Configuring the stakeholder template, server and database Connectivity check requires for an Automatic data Flow process.  • Worked in development of Burst screen, the Multiple Sequence of Email to the corresponding the entity once the report is scheduled based on Frequency Type.  • Worked in open source cleditor plug in for text editor for Email body Formatting.  • Worked in the change request of Automatic data flow schedule screen to view report of the scheduled template Status.  • Worked in the change request of the clients and support task.    Technologies used: Core java, Servlets, Spring MVC, Spring JDBC template, Oracle SQL, jQuery, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, Fusion charts, Wildfly(RAC Clustering).    Project: Vision BI Software Developer Sunoida Solution Pvt Ltd November 2016 to February 2017 Roles & Responsibilities:  • Worked in the development of the retail, SME, retail performance Dashboard based on our client requirement.  • Worked in the development of the ATM cash configuration and Email configuration screen.  • Worked in the excel export option in the dashboard and negative data format in bracket with red color indication in Excel Export.  • Worked in enhancement of grid dashboard Scheduling option in mail scheduler.    Technologies used: Core java, Servlets, Spring MVC, Spring JDBC template, Oracle SQL, jQuery, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, Fusion charts, Apache Tomcat.    Project: Vision BI Software Developer Sunoida Solution Pvt Ltd September 2016 to October 2016 Roles & Responsibilities:  • Worked in the development of corporate Dashboard For Exim bank.  • Worked in change request for merge column Header in the generated reports view.  • Worked in the support of widget, dashboard and report suite Issue.    Technologies used: Core java, Servlets, Spring MVC, Spring JDBC template, Oracle SQL, jQuery, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, Fusion charts, Apache Tomcat.    Project: Vision BI Software Developer Sunoida Solution Pvt Ltd February 2016 to August 2016 Description:  Have worked in XBRL report Conversion of bank of Mauritius a central bank in Mauritius taxonomy for regulatory filing process of Commercial bank report to central bank for our client bank one Mauritius in XBRL format.    Roles & Responsibilities:  • I worked in development of the report template using velocity Apache template  • worked in mapping maintenance of taxonomy tag in table.  • worked with team member for bug fixing and support.  • worked with clients for uploading and testing the generated XBRL reports from BI Applications in central bank of Mauritius Test Site.    Technologies used: Core java, Servlets, Spring MVC, Spring JDBC template, Oracle SQL, jQuery, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, Apache Velocity, Apache Tomcat.    Personal Strength:  • Flexible team player.  • Quick learner.  • Can work under pressure to meet deadlines. Education B.E in Electronic and Communication Engineering Anna university 2010 certification Secondary school education board 2008 certification NIIT