Consultant Consultant Consultant - Genpact Headstrong Capital Markets • Expertise in Pega PRPC 7.2 technologies and certified Pega (PRPC) v7.2 (Certified System Architect).    • Defined Ruleset Versions, Properties and defining multiple properties at Once.  • Exposing or optimizing the single value properties.  • Extensive Coding of modules using various features of PRPC like Process, User Interface, Decision and Declarative rules.  • Extensive experience in Flows like standard flows, Screen flows and Sub flows.  • Designed PRPC flows (Rule-Obj-Flow), Assignments, Utilities, Decision.  • Routing the work object to different operator in the flow using worklist and workbasket.  • Implemented notification tasks using correspondence rules.  • Expertise in developing User Interfaces, Screen layouts using, Harness and Flow action.  • Implementing different validations like Client-side & Server-side validations using Edit-validate, Obj-validate & Constraints rules.  • Implemented various Activities, Using Methods like OBJ, RDB, and Page, Property Methods.  • Expertise in Decision, Process, Technical, UI Categories of rules.  • Extensive debugging Skills in PRPC using with Tracer, Clipboard.  • Worked on Reports and Circumstancing rules.  • Worked on Data Tables, Data Page rules and Data Transform rules. Work Experience Consultant Genpact Headstrong Capital Markets September 2018 to Present Software Developer Morgan Stanley September 2018 to Present Technology: Pega PRPC, Angular JS, DB2  Description: The Directives Client Onboarding(DCOB) tool will be integrated with Accounts Express(AEXP) in order to facilitate the approval process for new account opening with partner teams(Sales Manager, Credit, ISD, CPM and BRM). This integration is the first phase to developing a workflow tool for on-boarders which will help to streamline new account opening and maintenance activities.    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in analysis of requirements, development and deployment  ? Bug Fixing, Maintenance & enhancement project  ?Involved in development of classes for business layer  ?Involved in daily status reporting and weekly status reporting Software Developer Q-Fund March 2017 to September 2018 Technology: Pega PRPC, Oracle  Description: Vehicle Loan is a Web-Enabled Application that automates the Vehicle Loan Process. Application, sanction selecting eligible customer, preparing reports, preparing pre-sanction letter. Creation of loan account by authorized bank executive by providing loan amount, tenure, interest, feeding the details into the database. Instructing the clearing section to issue DD/Check to the customer.    Responsibilities:  ? Understanding the business requirement and Implemented the business logic by using PEGA PRPC  ? Designed and developed the user interface for the application by creating the Sections and Harness    ? Involved in creation of requirement Properties, Data Tables and Data Pages    ? Developed in Report Definition, Data Transform.    ? Developed in when rule, Decision Table, Decision Tree, Declare Constraints, Declare Expressions, Declare OnChange.    ? Involved in creation of validations (Obj-validation, Edit-validation) rules to implement business logic    ? Developed activities and worked with tracer for troubleshooting any issues in activities    ? Involved in creation Email Integration, Rule Set versions, agents, Flows in screen flows, sub flows and process flows    ? Worked with routing for work list and work basket Sr. Software Engineer UST Global Pvt Ltd May 2014 to September 2018 Projects Additional Information Technical Skills    BPM tools: Pega PRPC 7.x  Data Bases: Oracle 10G and SQL  Web Technology: HTML, CSS3  Servers: Tomcat    Operating Systems: Windows Family