Software Developer <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer - General Motors Washington Twp, MI, 48095, US To obtain position as where I will utilize and expand my existing experience. Work Experience Software Developer General Motors - Warren, MI December 2016 to Present • Obtained knowledge in Microsoft Cognos Reporting Platform.  • Developed multiple reports using Cognos tools  • Managed and changed application package for PVDM database necessary to run Cognos reports.  • Completed successfully the project of migration PVDM Reports into new version of Cognos.  • Obtained knowledge in Java and Angular framework necessary to successfully complete tasks assigned to me.  • Obtained knowledge in Automation Testing that allowed me to work on my assigned project Software Developer Intern General Motors - Warren, MI September 2016 to December 2016 • Completed NCH Java Boot camp material.  • Completed setup and configuration of WebLogic Server.  • Analyzed and corrected Sonar Issues in order to improve code quality.  • Analyzed and corrected Fortify Issues.  • Modified option on a PQMS application to increase threshold of records displayed.  • Analyzed PQMS project code in order to understand application functionality. Web Developer/ Owner Progressive Web Solutions - Macomb, MI January 2011 to February 2012 • Consulting for Lee Industrial Contracting.  • Converted existing WARM Training Center website to Word Press platform.  • Updated and created pages for WARM Training Center.  • Completed various project for Teacher's Discovery. Web Developer Teachers Discovery - Auburn Hills, MI May 2007 to December 2010 • Developed Student Locker web site that has a purpose of hosting interactive activities, videos, games.  • Designed profile layout of Teachers Brunch Community.  • Developed all necessary PHP applications for profile creation, profile updating, uploading images, uploading text documents.  • Designed Administrative Panel for a webmasters content manipulation.  • Created Eduflix.biz, site for educational streaming videos.  • Created site for TD employee website that had a purpose of hosting information and documentation beneficial for the employees of Teacher's Discovery.  • Performed all necessary modifications on a shopping cart of Teacher's Discovery website.  • Designed banners for featured products.  • Created discussion board.  • Created Classroom Cable website for selling electronic TD products.  • Created and modified some parts of Game Guroo website. Web Developer Lee Industrial Contracting - Pontiac, MI October 2006 to May 2007 • Redesigned Lee Industrial Contracting web site.  • Developed database driven web site called Quote Center for manipulating quote requests.  • Designed log in system for Quote Center.  • Developed Lee Machinery Movers web site.  • Performed search engine submission and optimization.  • Designed layout for Scheduling web system.  • Created employment and contact forms along with applications for processing.  • Performed all maintenance on existing Lee Industrial Contracting web site. Education Bachelor Degree of Computer Science in Database Technology Baker College of Clinton Township June 2007 Associate of Applied Science in Computer Programming Baker College of Clinton Township August 2006 Skills Java, Mysql, Asp, Css, Asp.net, PHP, Javascript, Git, HTML 5 Additional Information COMPUTER SKILLS  • Java  Angular 7  • PHP  • CSS  • MySql  • JavaScript  • HTML  • SQL  Oracle     QUALIFICATIONS/SKILLS  • Excellent communication skills.  • Able to meet goals and deadlines.    • Able to perform as part of a team as well as an individually.  • Excellent analytical skills.