Developer/Admin <span class="hl">Developer</span>/Admin Developer/Admin - SFDC Houston, TX • Around 6 years of experience working with Salesforce.com CRM both as Administrator and Developer in Salesforce.com Sales, Service cloud.  • Experience in Development, Administration, Configuration, Implementation, Lightning and Support of Salesforce CRM based on Apex language and leveraging Force.com Platform.  • Strong Knowledge of SFDC standard Data structures and familiarity with designing Custom Objects and Force.com platform and Force.com Sites.  • Experience in understanding business requirement to design the required entities like custom objects, creating the relationships and junction objects.  • Developed Apex classes using other platform based technologies like Visualforce.  • Experience in use of Standard and Custom controllers of Visualforce in development of custom Salesforce pages as required by business requirements.  • Proficient knowledge of Governor limits. Experience in optimization of existing code in accordance to the governor limits.  • Experience in data migration from Excel, MS outlook and Legacy Systems using Data Loader, Import Wizard other integration tools like Apex Data Loader  • Involved in various stages of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including analysis, requirement engineering, architecture design, development, enhancements, testing, deployment and maintenance of standalone, Multi-tier, web-based, and portals based object oriented enterprise applications.  • Participated in all stages of Software Development Life Cycle (SDFC) i.e., System Analysis, Design, Development and Testing Expertise.  • Experience in creating various Reports (summary reports, matric reports, pie charts, dashboards and graphics) and Report Folders.  • Built Lightning Component Tab for Salesforce 1 Navigation and Custom Applications in Lightning Experience.  • Used refined global search in Lightning by developing Apex classes and Controllers.  • Experience in using Data Loader for insert, update and bulk import or export of data from Salesforce.com Objects.  • Designing and implementing standard based web application using Java and JavaScript  • Worked on Lightning Process builder flows, Connect API, Chatter and quick Action.  • Experience in using declarative features like validation rules, workflows, dynamic approval process, sharing rules, Duplicate rules and Matching rules automation for satisfying complex business process automations.  • Experience in implementing security and sharing rules at object, field, and record level for different users at different levels of organization, also created various profiles and configured the permission based on the organizational hierarchy.  • Integrating Salesforce to other systems by exposing Apex class as Rest & SOAP Web service classes and by consuming web services of external system.  • Maintained security around user accounts, sharing rules, user roles and profiles, field level security, group permissions and license assignment.  • Experience developing data integration/imports to/from Salesforce.  • Implemented the salesforce.com applications using Agile Scrum Methodology.  • Expertise writing test classes& building triggers, batch classes, invokable and future methods for unit testing.  • Visualforce Pages for Lightning Experience, Alternates for Java Script Codes, Sharing Visualforce pages between Classic and Lightning.  • Fluent in Salesforce Query and Search Language (SOQL and SOSL)  • Hands on experience in Administration setup like manage Users, Security Controls, Data Management, Creating Roles, Profiles and Integration with Salesforce web services.  • Good knowledge in Community cloud and Sites.  • Used Community cloud to build relationships with customers to provide better service and assist them through online.  • Experience in Installation of Salesforce AppExchange Apps, configuration and maintenance of user security permissions in compliance with organizational needs.  • Worked with Sales, Service, Marketing Clouds Users, Code, and Processes.  • Troubleshoot issues raised by users and provide prompt resolution and escalate to senior team members within the internal team or Premier Support as necessary.  • A team player with strong work ethic, a positive attitude and ability to make the best use of individual resources. Committed to excellence, and a prudent developer with strong problem-solving, analytical skills and communication skills. Work Experience Developer/Admin SFDC - Houston, TX July 2018 to Present We were involved in the development of a Salesforce-enabled Sales Productivity Management Automation Engine for our client. The Sales Productivity Management Automation Engine, which is a Salesforce AppExchange-Certified application, automates time-consuming marketing, sales, and CRM follow-up activities in Salesforce.com freeing valuable selling time and giving salespeople a competitive selling advantage. It allows salespeople to quickly assign contacts in Salesforce.com to pre-defined relationship building campaigns for marketing, sales and CRM. In addition to Salesforce.com, the Sales Productivity Management Automation Engine was made compatible with other CRMs and contact management applications.  Responsibilities:  • Data migration from external systems to sales force using Data Loader.  • Worked on various salesforce.com standard objects like Campaigns, Leads, Accounts, Contacts, Opportunity, Cases, Reports and Dashboards and Custom Objects.  • Created different Process builder and Approvals for various campaign processes.  • Created Workflow rules and schedule them to send an email to customer at certain interval time.  • Designed, and developed the Custom objects, Validation rules, Page layouts, Custom tabs, Components, Visual force Pages to suit to the needs of the application.  • Work with Asset Management marketing team, internal staff and production team to plan and execute development cycle.  • Working with management and end-users to create and manage workflow rules, data validation, processes and flows.  • Upgraded some Apps from Salesforce Classic to Lightning Experience to develop rich user interface and better interaction of pages.  • Created Visualforce Pages and making it available to public using sites.  • Created Force.com Sites for external users and configured public access to accommodate data access in visualforce page.  • Created lightning style sheet and attached to visualforce page to enrich UI.  • Written Triggers on Lead object with auto populating values when customer submit the survey.  • Writing Apex class to Manually Create Accounts, Contacts, Opportunity and Other custom objects from Lead.  • Experience working on batch class, schedule class to send email to salesforce everyday with the leads that are assigned to them.  • Created workflow rules and defined related tasks, time-triggered tasks, email alerts and field updates to implement business logic.  • Developed various Apex Classes, Triggers, Controller classes and methods for functional needs in the application compatible with lightning.  • Streamlined Approvals actions across credit team and updating related fields.  • Manage operational requests and troubleshoot issues, working with diverse user groups.  • Used field level security along with page layouts in Lightning to manage access to certain fields.  • Developed Visualforce Pages Alternates for Java Script Codes and Sharing Visualforce pages between Classic and Lightning.  • Developed and configured various Reports for different user profiles based on the need in the organization.  • Created email templates and inbound emails using Visual force for the clients and customers.  • Maintained data cleanliness and accuracy by adding custom validation rules, custom formulas, reports and dashboards.  • Created Duplicate rules and matching rules to prevent user creating duplicate records.  • Deployed the changes from sandbox to production using Change set and other tool as needed.  • Works within established procedures to develop, test, implement, and maintain application software.  • Experience in sales and service cloud implementations and customizations.  • Participated in the training sessions provided by the Salesforce team and support end users.  • Knowledge on creating Visualforce Dashboards, sharing rules.  • Managed users, hierarchical roles, profiles, security controls.  Environment: Saleforce.com platform, Role Hierarchies, Sharing Rules, Email Templates, Reports, Dashboards, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Email Services, Security Controls, Approval process, Marketing cloud Admin Developer/Admin SFDC - Minneapolis, MN February 2017 to June 2018 Be the Match is a non-profit organization that deals with bone marrow transplantation. Organization has existing website hosted from force.com platform. Now new forms have been added to those sites. It is like an input form which creates new entries in Salesforce internal database from site. We are will automate the existing enroll patient's functionality more expeditiously and to find efficient donor. Exchange of information.  Responsibilities:  • Implemented the requirements on Salesforce.com platform and Force.com IDE Plug-in using Eclipse.  • Involved in Salesforce.com Application Setup activities and customized the apps to match the functional needs of the organization.  • Worked with various salesforce.com objects like Accounts, Contacts, Leads, Opportunities, Reports, Dashboards  • Worked on supporting tickets in the following area: Roles, Profiles, Access Settings, Workflow Rules, Validation, creation and modification of fields and page layouts, upload of data  • Created summary reports, matrix reports, Charts and Dashboards to assist the business team  • Developed various Custom Objects, Tabs, Components and Visual Force Pages and Controllers  • Developed and configured various Custom Reports and Report Folders for different user profiles based on the need in the organization.  • Designed, developed and deployed Apex Classes, Controller Classes and Apex Triggers, packages for various functional needs in the application.  • Visualforce Pages for Lightning Experience, Alternates for Java Script Codes, Sharing Visualforce pages between Classic and Lightning.  • Upgraded some Apps from Salesforce Classic to Lightning Experience to develop rich user interface and better interaction of pages.  • Worked on Lightning Process builder flows, Connect API, Chatter and quick Action.  • Developed Custom Objects, Custom Reports, and dashboard and configured the Analytic Snapshots to dump the data on regular basis for the sales performance and lead generation statistics.  • Created and deployed Several Reports using salesforce.com platform.  • Created various Reports (summary reports, matrix reports, pie charts, dashboards and graphics) and Report Folders to assist managers to better utilize Salesforce as a sales tool and configured various Reports for different user profiles based on the needs of the organization.  • Utilizing Desktop Integration for Salesforce for Outlook.  • Developed and deployed workflows and approval processes for opportunities and products / assets management.  • Integrated different applications using SOAP API.  • Created and used Email templates in HTML and Visualforce.  • Performed the roles of Salesforce.com Analyst/ Developer and Administrator in the organization.  • Interacted with the Salesforce.com premium tech support team on a regular basis.  Environment: Saleforce.com platform, Apex Language, Visual Force (Pages, Component & Controllers), Pages, Data Loader, HTML, Java Script, Sales cloud, Sandbox data loading, Eclipse IDE Plug-in, Windows Developer/Admin SFDC - Paramus, NJ March 2016 to January 2017 This application is basically designed to setup the Order entry process, sales adjustment, assignment of Order entry user, simplified approval process, Payout case process and automate the Order process, referral payout process. With Order entry process they can easily find the MRCs for each individual teams, total commissionable MRCs and payout for referrals.  Responsibilities:  • Extensively worked on Agile methodology and attended Daily status/standup meetings.  • Analyzed business needs, distinguish between needs and wants, identify gaps between business needs and standard application functionality, design and document solutions that fill the gaps.  • Created user Roles and Profiles and given them Security controls and shared settings.  • Maintaining profiles roles and Standard Objects like user Accounts, Contacts, Leads, Campaigns, Dashboards, Reports.  • Developed various Custom Objects, Components, Controllers, Custom Reports, Custom Tabs, Labels, Visual force pages, Validation rules, Approval Processes and Auto-Response rules for automating business logic and Report folders for different users and profiles based on the requirement.  • Created various Reports (Summary reports, Matrix reports, Pie charts, dashboards and graphics) and Report Folders to assist managers to better utilize Salesforce as sales tool and configured various reports and door different user profiles based on the need in the organization.  • Created workflow rules and defined related tasks, time-triggered tasks, email alerts and field updates to implement business logic.  • Performed administrative tasks like Data management, User management (Creating and managing roles, profiles and users)  • Migrated financial transactions using Data loader tools that enabled ease of account reconciliation of various journal accounts.  • Used SOQL and SOSL for data manipulation.  • Designed web pages in Visualforce for capturing various customers' data.  • Developed User Interface using Apex controllers, Visual Force and Force.com IDE  • Created the Reports and Dashboards as per the business requirements.  • Migrated data from Excel and CSV files to SFDC using Data Loader and Data Import Wizard.  • Worked on Process Builder based on the requirements.  • Migrated the code/components from Sandbox to other Sandbox using Change set.  • Experience with Salesforce Service cloud implementation and Sales cloud.  Environment: Salesforce.com platform, Force.com IDE, Apex classes, Triggers, Visualforce (Pages, Components & Controllers), UAT Server, , SOSL and SOQL, HTML, CSS, sales cloud, Apex data loader, Workflows & Approvals, Sandbox, Production, Java Script, Eclipse, Apex Triggers, Windows. Developer/Admin SFDC - Hyderabad, Telangana November 2014 to December 2015 Responsibilities:  • Gathered detailed design specifications and strategies which were utilized by the functional team and the development team for performing detailed development and testing on business applications. Involved in requirements, design, planning, and implementation and testing phases.  • Coordinated with the users to gather and analyses the business requirements  • Used various Core Java concepts such as Multi-Threading, Exception Handling, Collection APIs to implement various features and enhancements. Co-ordination with offshore team on development activities.  • Worked actively with the Development team, providing assistance with programming issues and post production bugs.  • Implemented the Web Services through WSDL in the Salesforce.com for outbound messaging.  • Developed Apex Classes, Controller Classes and Apex Triggers for various functional needs in the application.  • Experience using web API's with XML, SOAP & REST.  • Involved in Working with Standard Sales force features like Objects, Workflows, Record Types, Page layouts, Workflow Rules, Case Assignment Rules, and Escalation rules, Validation rules, Profiles, Roles, Reports and Dashboards etc.  • Customized page layouts for Opportunity, Contacts, and Accounts depending upon user profiles and created permission sets where necessary.  • Implemented REST messages for communication between web service client and service provider  • Worked on Cascading Style Sheets and HTML pages to display static data content.  Environment: JavaScript, JSP, HTML, 8, Soap UI, MySQL CSS and jQuery, Validation Rules, Workflow Rules, Approval Process, Custom Objects, Data Loader, Workbench, Escalation rule, Eclipse IDE, Change Sets. Software Engineer Prosidex Technologies - Hyderabad, Telangana July 2013 to November 2014 Responsibilities:  • Gathering client's requirements and documents for PeopleSoft applications from the clients; and evaluating, analyzing and researching their requirements and preparing reports and documents and providing them solutions.  • With structured analysis and planning, Technical documents are prepared containing process flow, its impact, pseudo code and objects to develop; and also identifying the flexibility of technology to meet the requirement.  • Building, maintaining or modifying people-codes and SQLs using application designer and oracle SQL tool to meet technical specification and requirement; Creating batch programs, jobs, and scheduling them periodically to generate reports or synchronization of data.  • Giving support to clients on the issues facing by clients in PeopleSoft in production phase by finding the source of issue, then analyzing the log and trace files ; and debugging the issues and finally fixing it.  • Migrating programs to testing or production environment using migration tool such as STAT, and monitoring batch programs, jobs and performance of programs after implementation.  • Providing post-release technical support to end users/other teams and making appropriate changes to the system based on the feedback, including debugging, improving application performance and enhancement of functionalities as per client's scenarios.  Environment: PeopleSoft 9.1 Modules - GL, Travel and Expense, AP, AR, Integration, People code Education Bachelor's Skills APEX (4 years), JAVA (4 years), LOADER (4 years), WORKFLOW (4 years), ECLIPSE (3 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  SFDC Technologies  Standard objects, Workflow & Approvals, Apex Classes/Controllers, Apex  Triggers, Visualforce Pages, Data Loader, Reports, Dashboards, AppExchange,  Eclipse, Salesforce.com, Force.com IDE, ApexDataLoader    Configuration skills  Record Types, Field Level and Object level security, role hierarchies, sharing model, Workflow: time-dependent actions, field updates, email alerts, task creation. Reports, Dashboards, CTI Adaptors, Process builder, Formula Fields and Cross Object Formula Fields, Overall User Management Security and Sharing Model.    Languages Apex, SQL & PLSQL, C, JAVA  Operating systems UNIX, Windows 95/98/NT/2000/XP/2003, MS-DOS  Technologies GitHub, JIRA, CPQ, SharePoint, Visio, GIT, Eclipse IDE  Web Technologies HTML5, JavaScript, Java, CSS and Angular, power point, Share point, , MS Office