Application Developer Application <span class="hl">Developer</span> Application Developer - WellDyneRxCentennial, CO Colorado Springs, CO ? 6 years of software development experience in Application and Web development with emphasis on HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, ES6, jQuery, React JS, Angular 6, Express JS, MySQL.  ? Good hands on experience with Express, Angular Js, React Js, Angular 2/4/5/6 and Node.js  ? Developed user interface by using the Reactjs, Flux for SPA development.  ? Worked with MEAN/ MERN stack for developing applications.  ? Used Babel, web pack with es2015 (ES6), react JSX presets.  ? Expertise in React JS framework to develop the SPA.  ? Good Experienced in working withAWS EC2, S3, IAM, cognito and cloud formations.  ? Well-versed in Object Oriented Programming (OOP) with JavaScript.  ? Developed reusable components with AngularJS custom directives.  ? Solid experience with Responsive Web Design (RWD) with involvement in several web application development projects using Bootstrap.  ? Experience with User Acceptance Testing (UAT) and Accessibility Testing.  ? Extensively used SASS (Syntactically awesome style sheets) while styling with CSS3.  ? Implemented Model View Controller (MVC) Design Pattern using AngularJS  ? Developed reusable components with AngularJS custom directives.  ? Good knowledge of using JavaScript testing frameworks Jasmine and Karma.  ? Working experience of control version tools like SVN and GIT.  ? Experience on Web & Client-Server application development and design using Object Oriented Programming, Java /J2EE technologies.  ? Worked extensively on design and development of Core Java, JSP, Servlets and other technologies in JEE.  ? Expertise in various phases of Software Development including analysis, design, development and deployment of applications using NodeJS applications into AWS.  ? Good Understanding of Document Object Model (DOM) and DOM Functions.  ? Experience in all phase of SDLC like Requirement Analysis, Implementation and Maintenance, and extensive experience with Agile and SCRUM.  ? Worked extensively on API, driven interactive applications which utilizes Ajax technology. Work Experience Application Developer WellDyneRxCentennial, CO December 2018 to Present Description:  Responsibilities:  ? Responsible for the design, development, implementation and support of mission-critical enterprise-scale applications and dashboards using Angular 5/6, HTML5, CSS3 and Typescript.  ? Angular 5/6, ChartJS, NodeJS, Bootstrap used to build dashboards that visualize and organize data, fetched with APIs, in real-time and also to interact with data dynamically.  ? Extensively creating custom templates/reusable Components for the inputs, Buttons, Panels, charts, Overlay etc.  ? Created Typescript reusable components for forms, tables, charts etc. and services to consume REST API's using component-based architecture.  ? Writing unit tests for the JavaScript code using Jasmine and Karma.  ? Designing and developing the Commercial Business Portal Involving in requirement gathering, designing, development, UI reviews, and maintenance.  ? Creating Typescript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component based architecture provided by Angular 5.  ? Creating Angular 5components and custom directives for application functionality and pipes for heavy DOM manipulation and implementedlazy loading and AOT to improve application quality and performance in low bandwidth connections.  ? Implementing Angular Router to enable navigation from one view to the next as customer performs application tasks.  ? Used Webpack to build Typescript modules.  ? Implementing HTTP requests usingRxjs Observable library to handle multiple values over time.  ? Involving in developing HTML and JavaScript for client-side presentation and data validation on the client side with in the forms.  ? Fixed few Jasmine Unit test cases in karma framework.  ? Developed Restful web services using Node, MySqlarchitecture.  ? Tested Rest APIs in ExpressJSat backend for JSON data using Postman.  ? Coordinate with QA for testing, Production releases, Application deployment and integration.  ? Involved in Production Support and minor enhancements as per application requirements.  ? Using REST client to check the response of various API's as a visual documentation for back-end implementation and client-side consumption. Handling various exceptions based on the response.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap SASS/SCSS, Typescript, Angular 6, NodeJS, Bootstrap, Unit Testing, Agile methodology, GIT, Karma, Jasmine, MySQL and Express. MERN Stack Developer SNAC - San Francisco, CA January 2018 to November 2018 Description: description here.    Responsibilities:  ? Developed all the UI pages using HTML, DOM, CSS, JSON, JavaScript, jQuery, Ajax, Bootstrap, and NodeJS.  ? Involved in developing User interface using JSP, SQL, JavaScript, AngularJs, HTML5, and CSS/CSS3.  ? Worked with Express middleware to build a test server using Node JS.  ? Implemented client side Interface using React JS.  ? Worked with modules like MongoDB and mongoose for database persistence using Node.js to interact with mongodb.  ? Built backend REST API with Node.js, Express.js and Mongodb.  ? Implemented the Drag and Drop functionality using React-Draggable.  ? Implement the web application using MERN Stack technologies (MongoDB, Express, ReactJS, Node.js) along with HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap and other web technologies.  ? REST uses the standard HTTP request and response mechanism, simplifying implementation and providing for a looser coupling of the client and server.  ? Developed Web forms/user interfaces using Struts MVC, jQuery, and JSP.  ? Created React.js for reusable components (multi-field form elements, background file uploads)  ? Implemented React.js Controllers to maintain each view data  ? Experienced in working with Redux and Alt JS architecture.  ? Used Karma as a test runner for the application using karma config file and setup grunt task to invoke karma test execution.  ? Used Jasmine to write test cases, to check and expected values and actual values.  ? Mocked Service dependencies as a part of unit test cases.  ? Experienced in working with Babel, Gulp, NPM, NPM scripts, and Webpack in application build and deployment processes.  ? Designed and developed Web services using SOAP and RESTful and Tested using SOAPUI.  ? Used agile methodology for the software development.  ? Using Angularjs 2.0, we created custom directives for reusable components (multi-field form elements, background file uploads, etc.)  ? Created Menus and Drawer component by using Typescript and Angular 2.  ? Worked with Passport and JSON web tokens for authentication and authorization security configurations using Node.js  ? Managed application state using server and client-based State Management options.  ? Expertise in designing the user interactive web applications using web authoring tools like Adobe Dreamweaver CS3, Adobe Contribute CS3 and Microsoft FrontPage and Eclipse.    Environment: HTML, HTML5, DOM, CSS, JSON, JavaScript, jQuery, Ajax, Bootstrap, React JS, Bootstrap, NodeJS, MongoDB, Mongoose, Babel, Gulp, MVC, Web API, Git, NodeJS, Bootstrap, MVC architecture, Spring Boot. Web Developer GMU - Fairfax, VA January 2016 to December 2017 Description: description here.    Responsibilities:  ? Built Rich Prototypes and Application using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, TypeScript, Express, Ajax, JSON, Angular 2 and Bootstrap. Interacted with APIs, Web Services by writing application level code.  ? Creating cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant CSS-based page layouts.  ? Experience with the features of Angular 2 such as directives, modules and routing.  ? Used Angular 2 router to build single page application for navigate through the different status and multiple modals.  ? Worked Extensively with Angular CLI for creating Components, Services, Pipes, Directives.  ? converted an existing angularJS application into Angular 2.  ? Develop and implement user interfaces as per latest W3C standards and validated client-side code using JQUERY, CSS and JSP  ? Use jQuery core library functions for the logical implementation for client-side application  ? Work with back-end developers to convert HTML/CSS non-functional pages into dynamic JSP pages.  ? worked with development of RESTful web services using Mongodb, node, Express.  ? Worked with modules like MongoDB and mongoose for database persistence using Node.js to interact with mongodb.    Environment: HTML5, DOM, CSS, JSON, Javascript, jQuery, NodeJS, Ajax, Bootstrap, Express, Restful web services. Software Developer CMC Ltd - Hyderabad, Telangana August 2015 to December 2015 Description: Citibank is the consumer division of financial services multinational Citigroup. Citibank was founded in 1812 as the City Bank of New York, later First National City Bank of New York. The United States is the largest single market with approximately 26% of branches.    Responsibilities:  ? Underwent extensive industrial training in Software Development and Programming concepts and completed a certified course in Java, SQL. Executed a project that acted as a glossary for the company:  ? Played the role of UI Designer: The front-end use HTML5, SASS, JavaScript, TypeScript, Foundation, JSON, jQuery/AJAX and React JS and the back-end use NodeJS, Express, MongoDB and mongoose to provide RESTAPI and used GIT for version control.  ? Involved Webpack as module bundler to preprocess and minify different files such as SASS files.  ? Worked on ReactJS Virtual Dom and React views, rendering using components which contains additional components called custom HTML tags.  ? Used React-Router to turn application into Single Page Application.  ? Built custom UI Widgets and Application logic using OOD and MVC architecture.  ? Web content management system and updated online branding materials utilizing HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, AngularJS and Node.js.  ? Defined new validations through AngularJS for the form field validation implemented through HTML5.  ? Worked with build tools like NPM, Bower, and Grunt.  ? Participate in all phases of research and design to create a new innovative user experience with Overdrive's mobile application across multiple mobile phones and tablets in iOS, Android, and Windows.  ? Working knowledge by passing the AJAX, XML, Http Requests to the server and populating in cases to JSON.  ? Good with scope isolation, transclude, templating, in creating (elements, attributes, classes) using custom directives in AngularJS Software Developer Phoenix Technology Services - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2013 to August 2015 Environment: HTML, AngularJs, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX Controls, Adobe Flash CS3, Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Dreamweaver CS3, Web Services, Grunt, Microsoft Visual Studio  Phoenix Technology Services, Hyderabad, India  Software Developer, May 2013- Aug 2015  Responsibilities:  ? Developed the interactive user interface using jQuery, JavaScript library.  ? Utilized CSS, Ajax, JQuery, MySQL queries for website design and development.  ? Worked with technologies such as JQuery and Ajax to make the website more attractive and user friendly.  ? Used Cascading Style Sheets (CSS) to maintain design consistency across all web forms.  ? Worked with XPath, XMLNode, XML Data documents to synchronize with dataset.  ? Coordinated with the business on User Acceptance Tests (UAT) and to get the approval from business on the design changes.  ? Participated in Code Review and Quality Assurance.  ? Used JDBC, application server provided transaction API for accessing data from the Oracle the using standard statements.  ? Developed GUI using OOD, JavaScript, Angularjs, JavaScript, HTML/HTML5, DOM, XHTML, AJAX, CSS3 and jQuery, jQuery Mobile, Backbone.js in on-going projects  ? Preparation and review of Unit Test Plan, Unit Testing, Test Results review and other quality related work.  ? Used JDBC, application server provided transaction API for accessing data from the Oracle the using standard statements.    Environment: HTML, JQuery, CSS, JavaScript, JSP, JDBC, Oracle Database, Eclipse, Servlets, GUI, SQL, UAT, MVC, Struts, Servlet. Education Bachelors Gitam University 2014 Skills HTML (6 years), HTML5 (6 years), JAVASCRIPT (6 years), AJAX (5 years), jQuery (5 years), UI (6 years), CSS3 (4 years), AngularJS (4 years), React, Node Additional Information Technical Skills:  Web Technologies HTML/HTML5, CSS2/CSS3, DHTML, XML, XHTML, XSLT, JavaScript, AJAX, JQuery, JSON, Apache  JavaScript Libraries JQuery, Ext.js, angular.js, backbone.js, Require.js, Node.js, Bootstrap.  IDE & Tools Eclipse, Notepad++, Adobe Dreamweaver, Sublime Text 2, Textmate, Microsoft Publisher  Development Tools Adobe Photoshop CS5, Adobe Illustrator,  Version Control CVS, SVN  Publishing Tools Adobe PageMaker, MS Office    Methodologies Agile, Waterfall  Database Oracle 11g/10g/9i, MySQL, MSSQL, Teradata, PL SQL, Unix.