Software Engineer <span class="hl">Software</span> Engineer Software Engineer - Konica Minolta Raleigh, NC Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Engineer Konica Minolta October 2014 to Present -Implemented desired features for X-ray devices such as matrix-based image transform tools.  -Incorporated new devices in C++ using marshalled SDKs and an interprocess communication paradigm.  -Worked with end users to design intuitive and effective interface functionality and look. Software Developer Primal Space Systems - Raleigh, NC May 2018 to June 2019 •Modified Unreal Engine 4 to transmit index and vertex buffers, sound, and animations from  engine editor instance to another's streaming caches.  • Worked on a prototype for streaming game content rendered on client side GPUs.  • Optimized C++ methods for frequent expensive tasks.  • Worked to develop a theory of visibility from from an area by fixing inconsistencies. Graduate Research Assistant North Carolina State University April 2013 to May 2014 Responsible for development of multiple software projects in NC State's educational games laboratory.  -Developed a formal logic tutoring system in Javascript used in university classes  -Developed two educational games for use in an exhibit in the North Carolina Museum of History using C# and the Kinect, and Objective C. Software Engineer Filo LLC May 2011 to August 2012 Developed a 3D soldier equipment outfitting program for the U.S. Department of Defense in C# .NET  framework 4.0 using WPF 3D in the MVVM foundation  - Simulated different equipment load-outs using real-time rendering  - Implemented real-time drawing on 3D surfaces to analyze patterns in equipment & armor failure.  - Co-designed SQL Server 2008 database structure and content Education Masters of Computer Science in Computer Science North Carolina State University - Raleigh, NC 2012 to 2014 BS in Computer Science and Biology University of Mary Washington - Fredericksburg, VA 2007 to 2011 Skills Objective C (1 year), WPF (1 year), C (1 year), PHP (2 years), Agile Development (2 years), Unity (2 years), SQL (3 years), SVN (3 years), GitHub (3 years), C++ (4 years), Java (4 years), C# (5 years) Links http://www.perfectionofthedigital.com Additional Information Current Projects:    Daedalus: 1 player metroid-vania platformer in C#, Unity2D  Badlands: 3-6 player card game based on deception and simultaneous play.  Glyph: 1 player Android spellcasting game in C#, Unity3D    Relevant Coursework:    Machine Learning  Graph Data Mining  Object Oriented Programming  Serious Games  Artificial Intelligence I and II  Human-Computer Interaction  Design & Analysis of Algorithms  Computer Graphics