Software Developer / Software Consultant <span class="hl">Software</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> / <span class="hl">Software</span> Consultant Software Developer / Software Consultant Ellicott City, MD Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Developer / Software Consultant Catalyte - Baltimore, MD August 2017 to August 2018 Responsibilities:  • Research, understand and utilize recent coding languages, frameworks, and coding patterns and practices  • Create documentation and tests for developed code, able to work in a test-driven manner  • Practice SCRUM and its methodologies in coding practice.  • Learned and trained in use of HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Node.JS, React.JS, and Angular 6  • This position initially provided training consisting of coding and file systems basics. Also included was a focus on front-end development and client relations. Once training was completed, the position involved handling tasks from multiple clients and in-house projects and delivering code through use of Git. A familiarity with other common tools and applications such as Atom, Postman, and Firebase was also gained during this process. Tier 1 Community Agent Pole To Win - Towson, MD April 2014 to August 2017 Responsibilities: Monitor Social Media and Public Forums, Email Agent, Phone Agent  Provided basic/scripted troubleshooting to customers via phone and email, practiced in information gathering and communication of troubleshooting for various hardware issues through a variety of mediums. Associate Fast Tracked Software Development Training Program - Baltimore, MD January 2017 to July 2017 MD  Fast Tracked Software Development Training Program (720 hours/6 months): Consisted of intense studies in the following course material:  • HTML  • CSS  • JavaScript  • Node.js  • React.js  • Agile Associate Kohl's - Ellicott City, MD September 2013 to April 2014 Responsibilities: Cashier, Stockroom Checkout, Floor Associate.  Provided excellent customer service wherever placed through the store, solicit credit, kept the floor full of goods to purchase, answered customer complaints, concerns, and questions.    Panera Bread  Pasadena, Maryland  Position: Associate  Panera Bread  Golden Ring, Maryland  Position: Associate  Responsibilities: Dining Room Maintenance, Cashier, Bakery Sales, Kitchen Support  Provided excellent customer service; in client order satisfaction and meals preparation. Managed cashier sales and was established as one of the highest sales associates. Organized all customer supplies; with attention to ease of access based on usage and client satisfaction. Kitchen support included thorough cleaning of equipment and storage areas, as well as client service areas. Extreme cleanliness details and sanitation rules were considered in the excellent preparation of both the facility and the kitchen service areas. In sales and customer service; handled cash payments for goods purchased, stocked shelves, prepared products and set up displays for opening shift, took down stands and stored products at closing.    Back River United Methodist Church  Essex, Maryland  Position: Fundraising Associate Dinner Server  Provided multiple voluntary support efforts in fundraising for the Church; assisting with sales, stocking, displays, and shipping orders, as needed. Provided dining services for fundraising efforts; busing tables, waiting tables, client service and support. Education Kenwood High School - Essex, MD May 2010 Skills HTML (1 year), CSS (1 year), Javascript (1 year), Angular 6 (Less than 1 year), react.js (Less than 1 year), TypeScript (Less than 1 year) Additional Information Key Skills  • Excellent Verbal and Communication Skills  • Strong Attention to detail and organization  • Works well in a fast paced, deadline-driven environment  • Works well in Team oriented environment